-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Half-Life 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halflife2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous, cutting-edge graphics.
 Solid, engaging single-player gameplay.
 Excellent voice acting.
 Counter-Strike: Source offers great multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Disappointing story.
 Somewhat lackluster AI.
 Game is a bit easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.5, 88 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 36,282 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Valve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 16, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Half-Life 2 is a very impressive and engaging shooter, and a faithful follow-up to one of the greatest 
 PC games of all time. 

  It's hard to believe that, prior to Half-Life 2, Valve had really made only one game. Of course, 
 it was a masterpiece. Half-Life single-handedly reinvented the first-person shooter, putting the 
 emphasis on cinematic pacing and complete immersion in the experience. As a result, it paved the 
 way for many of the outstanding first-person shooters that have followed. And while there was little 
 question that there would eventually be a sequel, no one could have imagined the long and torturous 
 development process that led to Half-Life 2. Well, it's time to forget about that, because Half-Life 
 2 has arrived. And, in many ways, this big-budget sequel does what it sets out to do: Half-Life 
 2 is a technically amazing, sharply honed first-person shooter that pulls all the tricks that made 
 Half-Life such a beloved experience. With that said, many of those tricks feel more than a bit 
 familiar now, and the game itself is saddled with a disappointing story. Still, that doesn't stop 
 Half-Life 2 from being a very impressive and engaging shooter, and a faithful follow-up to one 
 of the greatest PC games of all time.  

          It's time for you to once again take up your submachine gun and take out all the foes threatening 
 humanity.     

  In Half-Life 2, you once again assume the role of Gordon Freeman, the theoretical physicist and 
 dimension-hopping commando who saved the world from an alien invasion at the end of Half-Life. 
 Or did he? Half-Life 2 starts you off facing the infamous G-Man, the mysterious blue-suited character 
 from the first game. At the end of Half-Life, the G-Man offered you a choice: work for him or die. 
 Since there would be no sequel if you chose the latter, Half-Life 2 assumes you chose the former, 
 and you start the game in a train entering City 17 for your introduction into this new world.  
 

  City 17 is a run-down urban center that's the equivalent of the Warsaw ghettos during World War 
 II, but instead of Jews being rounded up to live in City 17, it's all the remnants of a defeated 
 humanity. Half-Life 2 takes place an untold number of years after the Black Mesa incident, but 
 it's clear that much has changed. A mysterious enemy known as the Combine has conquered the planet 
 and installed a human puppet government to carry out its rule. Black-clad security forces patrol 
 the streets, while propaganda blares endlessly from omnipresent video screens. If there's one thing 
 that Valve does extremely well, it's capture a sense of atmosphere -- this vision of a dystopian 
 police state is chillingly effective. But you won't spend a lot of time soaking in the scene before 
 you're thrust into the struggle to defeat the Combine and free humanity.  

  As soon as the shooting begins you'll join an essentially nonstop battle that will last the remainder 
 of the game. Like the original Half-Life, Half-Life 2 is presented as a nearly seamless experience -- you 
 play entirely from Gordon Freeman's perspective, there are no cutscenes or perspective changes 
 to take you out of the moment, and are there no narrative jumps that skip ahead in time. (At least, 
 there are none from your perspective.) There also aren't very many long loading times to interrupt 
 the flow of the game, as all the levels are discreetly broken into sections, and when you transition 
 from one section to another, there's only a slight pause for the new section to load (at least, 
 on a high-end PC) . Put it all together and the game's single-player campaign, which will probably 
 take you between 15 and 20 hours to complete, comes off as a very long day in the extraordinary 
 life of Gordon Freeman.  

          In case of alien invasion, find Gordon Freeman and break glass.     

  The original 
 Half-Life was highly cinematic in nature, the virtual equivalent of starring in your own blockbuster 
 sci-fi action movie. Who could ever forget the first time a headcrab leapt out at you from a dark 
 corner? Or the moment when the commando tossed a satchel charge into the sewer pipe you were hiding 
 in? The movie analogy is apt, not only because Half-Life 2 packs a few cinematic moments of its 
 own, but also because, like most movie sequels, it plays it safe and doesn't deviate much from 
 its storied predecessor. Half-Life 2 doesn't revolutionize the genre, instead sticking with the 
 familiar formula of run-and-gun action, occasional puzzle-solving, and scripted sequences established 
 by Half-Life. And it's an effective formula, for the most part. The game gets off to a rousing 
 start, as the opening levels combine these three ingredients masterfully. You start off on the 
 lam from the Combine, armed with only a pistol and your wits, and embark on a chase through a train 
 yard and tunnel system that's filled with all sorts of hairbreadth escapes. The sense of pursuit 
 hurtles you forward so quickly that you don't have much time to admire the cutting-edge graphical 
 prowess on display.     

  After you reach safety, Half-Life 2 settles into a more conventional and familiar style of play. 
 Aside from a detour through a deserted town full of all sorts of booby traps, there are a lot of 
 echoes of the original Half-Life in Half-Life 2-- so many, in fact, that there's a strong sense 
 of dj vu at times. Still, it's hard to knock Valve for not wanting to tinker too much 
 with a proven formula, and Half-Life 2 is as fast-paced and enjoyable as its predecessor.  

          The graphics in Half-Life 2 are simply stunning to behold, and the level of immersion 
 is unmatched.     

  Clad in your rugged hazard suit, you'll battle your way forward against all manner of enemies, 
 only to recover quickly by picking up health packs and recharging your hazard suit at energy stations. 
 Some of these foes are familiar, such as the headcrab and the barnacle, while others, like the 
 manhacks (essentially flying buzz saws) present whole new challenges. Meanwhile, you'll be armed 
 with a formidable arsenal, most of which is recycled from the first game, such as the submachine 
 gun, shotgun, crossbow, and, of course, the ubiquitous crowbar. These weapons haven't changed much, 
 and they feel roughly the same. There are only three new weapons, including the pulse rifle, which 
 is a sort of beefed-up energy rifle with a devastating secondary attack and a meaty sound to it. 
 Much more fun are the pheropod -- otherwise known as "bug bait" -- which allows you to summon and control 
 vicious ant lions, and the gravity gun, which can be used to pick up and manipulate objects.  

 
  The gravity gun is one of the great new features introduced by the game. Thanks to the new physics 
 engine, it has all sorts of applications in and out of combat, and you'll spend a lot of time tinkering 
 around with it. It's just as useful for picking up and hurling a grenade back at an enemy as it 
 is for solving any number of puzzles in the game. Most of these puzzles are clever but not too 
 difficult, particularly if you've played previous shooters, like the original Half-Life. Half-Life 
 2 also features a fair number of jumping puzzles, though nothing on the frustration level of Xen 
 in the original game. The jumping puzzles are a weakness in Half-Life 2, but thankfully you can 
 take a more aggressive approach and bypass most of the jumping altogether.  

  The other noteworthy additions to the gameplay are vehicles, specifically an airboat and a high-speed 
 buggy. While these sequences offer a visual rush, they're also not too far removed from some of 
 the rail sequences in the original Half-Life. In many instances, you'll be funneled down a narrow 
 channel or road with little chance to explore or veer off the beaten path, battling enemies in 
 a high-speed engagement. You'll then encounter an obstacle that requires you to jump out of your 
 vehicle and solve a puzzle to proceed. The controls and physics in these sequences are a bit loose, 
 but the vehicles are fun to drive, especially when you get some room to maneuver.  

  You'll be on your own during most of the game, but there are levels in which you'll have the opportunity 
 to fight alongside allies, both alien and human. Some of the best team moments come later in the 
 game, when you're battling the Combine in the streets and buildings of City 17, with large-scale 
 battles going on between groups of humans and the Combine's huge, spiderlike striders. You never 
 really develop any attachment to your teammates, though, as they tend to be very disposable, and 
 replacements are available at regular intervals. And teammates have a tendency to get in your way 
 in cramped interiors -- while they'll slowly move out of your way, it's still a little annoying. 
 In addition to taking on teammates, you'll occasionally have the opportunity to set up sentry guns 
 to assist you in defense. The toughest sequence that we encountered in the game involved setting 
 up a handful of sentry guns in a defensive alignment, and then holding out against waves of incoming 
 Combine soldiers.  

          The "bug bait" is one of the three new weapons in the game, and one of the most unique, 
 because it allows you to control ant lions.     

  Surprisingly, Half-Life 2's story is one of the most disappointing aspects of the game. The first 
 half of the game feels a bit unfocused, while the second half seems rushed. Even worse, the story 
 leaves behind a mess of unanswered questions, and it doesn't touch on any of the lingering questions 
 left over from the first game. Valve likes to leave tantalizing hints and tidbits everywhere in 
 the game, but few of these actually develop into anything interesting, and by the end you're left 
 wondering what the game was all about. In many ways, Half-Life 2 feels like the middle chapter 
 in a much larger story, and it suffers as a result.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1624 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, without even reading this review, is considered one of the best first person shooters 
 of all time on the PC. The first Half-Life game was a very critically acclaimed game at the time. 
 Many critics praised the game for its great story, amazing gameplay, and impressive graphics. Half-Life 
 2 is the sequel to the first Half-Life, and whatever you thought was amazing about the first game, 
 is even better in the 2nd installment. Half-Life 2 not only sways away from the normal first person 
 shooter formula, but it just spins it in a whole new direction, and slaps an amazing, and very 
 detailed story right on the top. Not only did Value create an unbelievable experience, but they 
 created one of the most extraordinary games to ever hit the market.
  
  Half-Life 2 starts off with the main protagonist, Gordon Freeman, being talked to by a man seen 
 in the first Half-Life game, G-Man. Gordon is being talked to in a dream-like state without being 
 able to talk back, or do anything besides being told what to do. What mode Gordon is in is called 
 Stasis, and the G-Man can revive Gordon whenever he sees fit. The world needs Dr. Freeman once 
 again, and the G-Man takes you out of stasis and puts you right into the thick of saving the world. 
 Gordon eventually finds out that the world is being taken over by an alien race called the Combine. 
 The Combine came from a different dimension and started a war with the citizens of the earth called 
 the 7 Hour War. The citizens of earth were so outnumbered that the War for the earth only last 
 7 Hours, and earth had to surrender to the Combine. This is why G-Man has sent Gordon into City 
 17, he must save the Combine from becoming unstoppable.
  
  Throughout Half-Life 2, you'll meet up with a lot of familiar faces along the way including Eli 
 Vance, Barney Calhoun, and Isaac Kleiner for the original Half-Life. You'll also meet new facing 
 in Half-Life 2 like Alyx Vance (daughter of Eli Vance) , Alyx's pet robot Dog, and Judith Mossman. 
 All characters in Half-Life 2 have an unique personality, and add that the voice acting (with not 
 cut scenes) are absolutely phenomenal, they all are nearly perfect. Cut scenes are treated very 
 differently in Half-Life 2 from other games of the genre. Instead of watching a cut scene take 
 place, you are put into the cut scene, and you can do whatever you want. You can turn around, and 
 look around the room instead of listening to people talk. Or can stand right beside them and really 
 listen to them, whatever you want. Each character also has perfect facial animation to go along 
 with their perfect voice acting. Every muscle in the face moves like it would in real life, they 
 also act with their arms and legs too, making it life-like.
  
  You can tell in many cases throughout the game that the Combine have had a major impact of the 
 slow destruction of Earth. In once instance for example, there is a giant beach near a pier, but 
 since the Combine are draining the Earth of its water supply, the beach's tide is way further out 
 then it ever should be. You'll also notice a giant building in the middle of City 17 called the 
 Citadel. This Citadel is where the combine are created, and it's the main headquarters for the 
 Combine in general. Most buildings of City 17 are up and running, but most are abandoned and being 
 torn apart by the Combine. The Combine are also putting giant walls, and barriers in the way of 
 roads and other things to prevent citizens from escaping from City 17.
  
  But if you're wondering, Half-Life plays like no other First Person Shooter on the market. If you 
 think this is going to be a game like say, Halo, well, it's not going to be. The game's main appeal 
 is that, though the game is linear (you have to go the right way, there isn't separate ways or 
 anything) , you can still do many things differently the second time round. Say there was a bunch 
 of Combine soldiers at an entrance of a building, and they are trying to get in. Instead of shooting 
 them once they burst through the door, try to place a mine, or throw a grenade just before they 
 get through. But other than these types of things, Half-Life 2 is a first person shooter all the 
 way. You collect many different kinds of guns like a pistol, machine gun, and rocket launcher. 
 All them are used for different situations. The machine guns is for a bunch of enemies, the pistol 
 is for Headcrabs that are starting to annoy you, and the Rocket Launcher is for taking down Gunships, 
 and other machinery. Your health is measured by a number system going from 1 to 100, 100 being 
 the best, and it goes down when you get hurt. You also have suit power, which is like a shield, 
 and when it hits zero, your health is in trouble. You can revive your health and your suit by going 
 to a station found around City 17.
  
  The enemies in Half-Life 2 are very cool and very unique from other first person shooter games 
 out there. Sure, there are Combine Soldiers like in every FPS game, but there's also a wide range 
 of other enemies in Half-Life 2. Headcrabs, like mentioned above, are the source of many different 
 kinds of enemies throughout Half-Life 2. Headcrabs look like a bump of skin with two claws, and 
 two back legs. They leap on the air and bite you, and the vict ims of Headcrabs are turned into 
 Zombies. Zombies are only humans with a Headcrab on their head. There are also other kinds of Headcrabs 
 like a Fast Headcrab, and a Poison Headcrab. The Fast Headcrabs are exactly what they sound like, 
 they are faster than normal Headcrabs. Poison Headcrabs are like Fast Headcrabs, but can make your 
 health do down to 1 in one hit, but luckily your health eventually restores. The Fast, and Poison 
 Headcrabs also have Zombies too. Fast Zombies are just quicker versions of Zombies, and the Poison 
 Zombies can spawn other Poison Headcrabs on its back and throw them at you.
  
  Other enemies include Barnacles, Dropships, Gunships, and Striders. Barnacles are a mouth-like 
 creature that hang from the ceiling, with a tongue hanging down and when they grab you with their 
 tongue, they will slowly lift you to the ceiling to try and eat you, Dropships are a ship that 
 carry Combine soldiers to different places like drop zones. Gunships are primarily the same, though 
 they only shoot at you, and do not carry Combine Soldiers. Striders are a giant creature that has 
 3 giant legs and walk very slowly. Whenever it sees something that must be destroyed, it shoots 
 them. The Dropships, Gunships, and Striders all have their own sets of minds, and are synthetic 
 beings, not controlled by a Combine Soldier or another human.
  
  Half-Life is split into 13 chapters, all with unique places and great environments. Some chapters 
 would have you drive a certain vehicle, and some might have you do other types of things like defending 
 a building, or infiltrating a prison. My favorite chapter would have to be the last chapter when 
 you are finally able to get into the Citadel and try and stop the Combine once and for all. Some 
 chapters, like Water Hazard, and annoying to me though, but only because of the Airboat you have 
 to drive which ticks me off sometimes. All of the chapters are unique from one another and are 
 all very fun to play. Some chapters are made to be played a certain way, like running over enemies 
 with the car in Sandtraps, or only using the Gravity Gun in Ravenholm.
  
  One of the guns in Half-Life 2 that really revolutionized the genre is the Gravity Gun. The Gravity 
 Gun is given to you by Alyx in the chapter called Black Mesa East, and it never leaves you after. 
 It can pick up heavy items like desks and barrels and throw them can enemies and kill them. You 
 can also pick up things like saws and chop Zombies in half with them. You can pick up items, drop 
 them, or throw them. Puzzles in Half-Life 2 use the great physics engine in the game, and will 
 have you picking up items and putting them in a seesaw type of plank to get from one end of a room 
 to the other. The physics in Half-Life 2 are top notch. Ever wondered what it would be like to 
 hit someone with a barrel? Throw a barrel at a Combine Soldier and see what happens. The physics 
 in Half-Life 2 are pretty much perfect and never get all caught up and break down. Everything from 
 falling items like guns and boxes, to bullets in the air and moving vehicles are all amazingly 
 well done and you never see any slowdown what-so-ever.
  
  Half-Life 2 is easily one of the most artistic (both unrealistically, and realistically) game on 
 the PC, and one of the best of all time. Everywhere you go, the environments are perfectly designed 
 with the proportions being perfect, and the City looking realistic. City 17 looks like a real living 
 and breathing city with people walking down the street, people hiding in buildings, and other things. 
 The effects like the lighting, and the fire look fantastic, and seeing a bullet whizzing by your 
 face never gets old. Each character model have an unbelievably realistic look to them with facial 
 and other body part animations making them seem even more real when they are talking to you. Every 
 animation from enemies falling to their death, and ships flying in the air are oh so perfect, and 
 look, again, real. With the game looking so great, and the physics being so insane, you have a 
 technical powerhouse with Half-Life 2 Big props to Valve for the fantastic visual design of Half-Life 
 2, and it is easily one of the best looking games of all time.
  
  The audio design of Half-Life 2 is easily one of the best of the generation, and some of the best 
 of all time. The sound design like the gun fire, the machinery like the Airboat and Car, and the 
 overall quality of the audio is just amazing. The voice acting is also one of the best of all of 
 gaming with everyone sound realistic and each having an unique personality. The Combine soldiers 
 talking to each other on a walky-talky type of noise makes it seem like a real movie when getting 
 into the action. The soundtrack with the intense music and the epic tunes make it an outstanding 
 package, and should go down as one of the best.
  
  If you are wondering, no, Half-Life 2 does not feature any kind of multiplayer what-so-ever. The 
 main appeal of the game is it's long and epic single player storyline which can take up from 10 
 to 15 hours depending on your skill level. Though it's not the longest game on the market, it's 
 still a great package considering how much fun it actually is. It would have been even better if 
 it had a great multiplayer aspect to it, but even without it, it's still the best FPS game ever 
 created. It goes to shows that even a First Person Shooter game doesn't need a multiplayer mode, 
 let alone an action adventure game.
  
  Overall, Half-Life 2 has got to be one of the greatest gaming experiences of all time. Not only 
 is it a great adventure with an amazing story behind it, but the shear depth of the game, and the 
 outstanding visual and audio quality of the game assures that the game is absolutely incredible. 
 The game has had many different releases on the Xbox, PS2, and it is also included on the Orange 
 Box on the PC, Xbox 360, and PS3. So if you haven't played this game yet, go and play it, you wont 
 regret it. Valve has created a masterpiece of a game, and it should easily go down as one of the 
 greatest First Person Shooter, and one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenwyne
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This is really one of those games that you have to play to appreciate. I was only introduced to 
 this seriesd last year and i was hooked on The Orange Box since day one. I know many people who 
 have never even heard of this game, and i don't know how this can be possible. In my opinion, it 
 is the best first person shooter i've ever played. It has everything you would expect from a great 
 game and more. Great gameplay, an immersive storyline and brilliant physics as an added bonus. 
 It's also fantastic for modding capabilities, there's masses of addons that you can download and 
 even though it's 5 years old, it still beats many modern, next generation games that are being 
 released today.
  
  This review has to be 800 letters long. This review has to be 800 letters long. This review has 
 to be 800 letters long. This review has to be 800 letters long. This review has to be 800 letters 
 long. This review has to be 800 letters long. This review has to be 800 letters long. This review 
 has to be 800 letters long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 7:29 am PT
Review:  I was highly anticipating Half-Life 2 for about 3 years before it came out. Some people waited 
 much longer than I did. The games development process suffered from endless delays and scandals, 
 and when it was finally released it was the singular most exciting moment in my gaming life. Some 
 might think that my love for the game is largely down to the excitement and anticipation I had 
 for it, and this is a valid point, some people really do just get caught up in the hype machine 
 and become blinded to a game's flaws. But I am certain that this is not the case with me. Half-Life 
 2 not just delivered what it promised, but it gave me so much more than I expected, amazed me at 
 every turn, and left me speechless and desperate for more. Half-Life 2 has held up as the best 
 game I have ever played. This is not a term I give anything lightly; as I have played a lot of 
 games. But there is simply no game I have touched, over 4 years later, which has surpassed the 
 enjoyment I had with Half-Life 2. Now, let me explain why.
  
  Half-Life 2 takes place an untold number of years after the events of Half-Life. This time you're 
 whisked away into City 17, a sad, dilapidated place taken over by the Combine, a dystopian antagonistic 
 force that control everything the citizens do in City 17, and convert humans into soldiers. You're 
 here to try and stop them, and help lead the resistance to take back the city. Much like the original 
 Half-Life, the game's story is nothing amazing; it's the way it is portrayed that is so special. 
 The game has no cutscenes, and your perspective is always through the eyes of the protagonist, 
 so the story is presented to you almost entirely through dialogue from the game's characters. All 
 of them are so believable and lifelike, and even the most subtle emotion is portrayed perfectly 
 through Valve's groundbreaking facial expression and animation technology. The voice acting is 
 completely believable, and every voice has a distinct personality making them instantly recognisable. 
 Every character is interesting and memorable, and you will become attached to all of them, as their 
 relationships between each other and to you seem so real and believable. This helps draw you into 
 the world in a way which very few games have been able to achieve: actually making you feel for 
 the characters and care about their goal, and experience a variety of different emotions, in a 
 way even most of the best blockbuster movies can't do. All the lines are expertly written, and 
 the games intricate setting and extreme attention to detail make up for all the shortcomings the 
 core plot may have, a million times over. 
  
  The gameplay in Half-Life 2 is smooth, fast, and incredibly fun. Much like Half-Life was, only 
 better. The same standard FPS controls remain, but thanks to the inclusion of a Havok physics engine, 
 your enemies now flop to the ground and fall off cliffs and buildings when they die, and all objects 
 in the environment can be moved and interacted with. This is of course, nothing amazing in 2009, 
 and admittedly its flaws are showing up now: the enemies don't even react to being shot at until 
 they die, and then simply collapse into their ragdoll form which flops around everywhere kind of 
 unrealistically. However, this is just a minor fault you will notice, as the rest of the physics 
 effects are still top-notch and on par with any other game out there despite being nothing amazing 
 like it once was. Half-Life 2 puts a large emphasis on its physics engine. Objects and enemies 
 in the world are placed strategically so that when they die it will give the most glorious display 
 of physics possible, but it rarely seems fake and it's always fun to watch.
  
  Once again you will be fighting both "aliens" and soldiers, and many of the classic creatures return, 
 such as the infamous headcrabs and barnacles, as well as completely new creatures, giving a good 
 mix of nostalgia while also introducing new styles of gameplay for you to adapt to. The varied 
 amount of aliens to fight in the game means you will always have to be prepared for anything, as 
 all of them have to be fought in different ways. The Antlions can burrow under sand and jump out 
 at any moment and attack. Most zombies are best shot from a distance because they're slow, but 
 a different type of zombie is much faster, meaning that before you know it you can be running away 
 desperately shooting away with your shotgun. Headcrabs hide behind corners and jump out when you 
 don't expect it, and Barnacles attach to the ceiling and can grab you with their tongue if you 
 don't see it, and pull you up to your doom. The combine aren't quite as interesting or varied, 
 but they put up a good fight, and the game switches between fighting aliens and fighting combine 
 with total ease, without it ever feeling forced or out of place. The gameplay is always fast and 
 smooth no matter what you're fighting.
  
  This is due partly to the game having what is possibly the most varied and fun selection of weaponry 
 ever (with Painkiller's weapons being the only exception.) The classics return, such as the crowbar, 
 crossbow, and guided RPG; and new additions like the combine assault rifle, and a gravity gun which 
 lets you manipulate objects in the environment. The gravity gun lets you do things like pull toilets 
 from walls and fling them at your enemies, or pick up a grenade just thrown at you and throw it 
 back, or if you can't reach a health pack... use the gravity gun to make it zoom towards you. Every 
 weapon is unique and really stands out, while still feeling like they belong in the world. The 
 crossbow can now pin enemies to walls with its deadly spikes, and the guided RPG is much more sophisticated, 
 as you can now move your rocket all over the sky and direct it wherever you like. All of the weapons 
 have their own qualities and most of them pack a satisfying punch. You really have to play the 
 game to see how fun the weapons are to use.
  
  The enemy AI squad and flanking tactics are solid, but friendly AI leaves a little to be desired. 
 They don't always move exactly where you tell them too, and rarely stay in one spot, always following 
 you after a while anyway. Sheparding them around feels a bit sloppy, and could have been better. 
 However, the option only becomes available at one point near the end of the game, and you can completely 
 avoid interacting with these NPC characters if you wish, leaving them to fight on their own or 
 just follow you until they get bored. Either way, it doesn't impact on the cinematic feeling that 
 you're making huge progress towards your goal at this point in the story; and that you're helping 
 these people fight back.
  
  Probably the biggest complaint (and still a relatively small one, all things considered) that I've 
 always had with Half-Life 2 is that your progression always feels very linear and there aren't 
 enough open environments. This is obviously because the game is packed with scripted sequences 
 and you need to be on track so that you can see these without missing them. However, Valve have 
 proven with HL2: Episode 2 that they are fully capable of creating open environments while still 
 giving you the same experience, so this is something I'm highly anticipating in future instalments. 
 Again, a minor point which the rest of the game easily makes up for.
  
  The sounds in the game are exceptional. Voice acting has already been mentioned, but the sound 
 effects and music are all great. The beeps of your HEV suit, the sound of a health charger being 
 used, these are trademarks to the series which bring a smile and are very memorable. The gun sounds, 
 explosions, crates breaking, doors opening... Everything sounds high quality even down to the most 
 minor things; there is a high attention to detail everywhere. The music is subtle, but fits the 
 moods perfectly and helps drive you on. None of the sounds in the game could have been any better 
 as far as I'm concerned.
  
  Technically, the source engine is showing its age, but the artistic flair of the architecture and 
 characters remains intact and the game looks very beautiful in its own unique way. The environments 
 are highly detailed and people's faces look great. It doesn't look extraordinary anymore, but it 
 has a 'real' look about it and nothing seems too shiny or too plastic like so many games out there.
 
  
  Half-Life 2 spent over 6 years in development, and it was so worth it. The amount of time Valve 
 spends polishing and refining their games obviously pays off once you experience them for yourself. 
 They're so damn slow, but I wouldn't have it any other way. This game holds up as a tremendous 
 experience that is so deep and sophisticated, that everyone should play it for themselves. It's 
 not perfect, and it has its flaws just like everything else. But the way it sucked me into the 
 world and stole away months of my life is just unprecedented, and no other game has come close 
 to touching the quality and replayability of the gameplay, the artistic design, or the elegant 
 storytelling that Half-Life 2 so proficiently delivers; and this is why I consider it to be the 
 best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustyjayrusty
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Now I should start this review off by saying that I am not a huge fan of First-Person Shooter games 
 which makes my score even more amazing! However for a few reasons this game is at the top of the 
 list for me.
  
  Gameplay : Immersive, fun and interesting, how much better can you get? Valve has done an absolutely 
 incredible job of making this incredibly immersive. The difficulty is just right as you wont be 
 pulling your hair out or beating the game blindfolded either! I wish it wasn't quite so linear, 
 but there are plenty of open-ended "sandbox" games for that i guess.
  
  Graphics : Here is where the game really shines. The game's visuals are incredible and really fit 
 in with the theme of a alien police-state earth. Everything right from the decrepit city 17 train 
 station until the scary-as-hell inside of the combine citadel is perfectly rendered! Even 5 years 
 after the game came out I still think they look incredible. The player models are fantastic as 
 well as weapons. The faces of NPCs are fantastic as they really show their emotions and such!
 
  
  Audio : The sound is just off the scales. Even the voice acting, which in video games is usually 
 cornier than the farmer's field, is just fantastic and puts most Hollywood movies to shame. Everything 
 beginning to end is incredible and really pulls you into the action. Well written and well acted, 
 a rare combination. Everything else is very good as well, from the gunshot sounds to the explosion 
 of a hunter-chopper or dropship are perfectly done.
  
  Storyline : This is where a lot of people say that the Half-Life series suffers is in the storyline, 
 same old alien garbage. Well I disagree. The games story is told in a masterful and immersive way 
 that as far as i know has never, ever been done before in any movie or game. It really makes you 
 think, and theorize as well as really feel like you are as the main character, Gordon Freeman. 
 If you have never played this game, then I can't even fully describe it to you because it is so 
 well done and unique.
  
  Value : I could write a novel on the incredible value of the orange box, which on steam is only 
 $10 more than half-life 2. But even for $20 by itself Half-Life 2 is well worth the money even 
 5 years along.
  
  Now alot of people like to stereotype FPS games. Violent and mindless they say. Well I have to 
 admit in some cases they have a point, but in the half-life series it is groundless. Anyone who 
 enjoys video games must play this game, it is an absolute masterpiece of storywriting, storytelling 
 and gameplay which will make eyes glued to your pc monitor for quite a while. The best game ever 
 made. Good job valve you should be proud of yourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadDevotion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I think it's safe to say that everyone who is a fan of FIrst-Person Shooters should own this game. 
 Its great use of physics creates an interactive experience for gamers that sets it apart from other 
 games of its kind. You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist who attempts to stop the world from 
 an alien invasion. I've never played the original Half Life, but I think it's safe to say that 
 the story in HL2 is very difficult to follow, and anyone who is not willing to observe every single 
 detail they had missed will probably not understand it. This being said, the story in Half Life 
 2 can be very lackluster, which does drag the thrill of the game down a bit. Nevertheless, the 
 enjoyable experience it makes for gamers more than makes up for its flaws.
  
  As stated before, the physics that Half Life 2 has to offer will show gamers a new experience that 
 they haven't had in many other games before: environmental interactivity. For example, when I hit 
 a wooden shelf with a crowbar, I want it to break. Half Life 2 demonstrates just that. In fact, 
 one of its most important weapons, the Gravity Gun, focuses solely on this factor of the game, 
 and it will be useful for many things you come across. While you aren't busy engaging in an intense 
 battle of non-stop action, you will often find many mind-challenging situations you run across. 
 Some of these may be as simple as moving cement blocks off an object, while others may take some 
 time to figure out. There are many of these puzzles that are more obvious than others, but they 
 create an inviting experience that you probably haven't had with any game other than the Half Life 
 series.
  
  Like many other shooting games, you won't always be on foot shooting up enemies. In a point of 
 the campaign (one that you will reach rather quickly) , you have the opportunity to travel in a 
 boat. This will be very useful and is necessary by all means for you to make it any further in 
 the game. Due to the game's open environment, it makes traveling in vehicles more fun than you 
 could ever imagine would be possible in a video game. This is a good thing, because you will be 
 traveling in this boat for quite a while if you decide to take advantage of the area you are around. 
 You can travel to areas that you don't need to, but the areas you do decide to opt-in on usually 
 give you somewhat of a rewarding compromise. This makes the game even more enjoyable to explore, 
 and makes the game feel much less linear. There are many more twists and turns you will encounter 
 in Half Life 2. For example, there are bugs that will appear from sand in one point in the game 
 that attack you, and so many will appear that it will make death almost inevitable if you don't 
 comply to what are you instructed to do. However, you eventually get "Bug Bait" in the game, that 
 will attract the bugs to you, and they will fight enemies for you, which definitely helps in certain 
 situations of the game. Another example is a Gravity Gun and suit upgrade you get towards the end 
 of the game, which is very useful, considering you lose nearly all your weapons towards that point. 
 With the Gravity Gun upgrade, you can move all the objects you could previously move before, along 
 with heavier ones that you could not. In addition to this, you can pick up enemies and incinerate 
 them simply by left clicking.
  
  There will also be other instances in your adventure through Half Life 2 that require lots of teamwork. 
 And while your enemy AI is for the most part good, your team AI is what struggles you to get through 
 a mission as quickly as you should be able to. You will often find your teammates in the way of 
 where you are trying to go, which can be annoying, especially in a situation where you have to 
 move quickly, as to get away from a grenade or anything of the sort. However, this doesn't mean 
 that your teammates will be useless, by any means, as there are many parts of the game where you 
 will have so many enemies rushing towards you that it is absolutely necessary to have some help.
 
  
  If you are a big fan of graphics, then you will find Half Life 2 an absolutely remarkable game. 
 Though it was made a while ago and is beginning to show it's age, it still looks stunning. You 
 will often find yourself in amazement by the incredibly detailed environments and character models. 
 For it's time, this was probably the best looking game out there, and it remained that way for 
 a while. Not only this, but it sounds great as well, as music will usually present itself at the 
 right moment, and explosions and gunshots usually sound great as well. Even though there are better 
 looking games now, that doesn't mean this game still doesn't look amazing. However, the graphical 
 intensity that the game has does present consequences to some. While you will most likely get a 
 great framerate on most computers that have half-way decent video cards, loading times can be rather 
 bothersome. The game itself doesn't take too long to load, but there are rather frequent areas 
 in the game that have to load separately. With a high-end PC with the right amount of memory, this 
 should not take more than a few seconds. Still, it does detract from the gameplay somewhat. Another 
 thing to note about Half Life 2, is that it's not the most challenging game I have ever played. 
 However, you will still run into some very difficult situations. Like I stated before, you will 
 have to use a lot of thinking in certain areas of the game, in order to find out how you get to 
 a certain place. The campaign took me roughly 21 hours, then again, it took me an awful long while 
 to figure out what to do at certain areas. For most players, it should take between 14 and 20 hours. 
 If you enjoyed the campaign as much as I did, you will probably find yourself playing it a second 
 time, though on a different difficulty level to make the game more challenging, or you will at 
 least replay certain chapters of the game. And when you feel you are truly done with playing the 
 campaign, the Deathmatch game that's bundled with it has multi-player that can be entertaining.
 
  
  While HL2: Deathmatch isn't nearly as enjoyable as Counter Strike: Source, it still presents itself 
 well. The deathmatch mode is rather mindless, you simply choose a server and try to kill as many 
 people as possible. The only other mode available for online play is Team Deathmatch, which is 
 basically the same thing, but is not as mindless due to the fact that you are working cooperatively 
 with certain people to kill the other team. Fun as it may be, especially considering weapons such 
 as the Gravity Gun, it does get repetitive after a while, which is where the vast amount of mods 
 come in. There is an amazing variety of user-created modifications to choose from, which will make 
 you realize just how long Half Life 2 will last you, and you undoubtedly will be trying out the 
 different mods for a long while.
  
  If you are a fan of FPS games, or even only a casual FPS player, Half Life 2 is a game that will 
 offer an incredible experience that will be well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d0zin0X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The Half Life 2 series is one of the best games that was ever made. It has awesome graphics, and 
 when you are thinking that the game was made in 2004 and it has next-gen graphics, you really feel 
 like this is one of the best. Storytelling is very good, though the ending is a little disappointing, 
 but you kind of know that it continues. When i first got the game i totally loved it, and i still 
 do. 
  It looks like it is cut scenes every time someone talks to you because they look at you all the 
 time and at the same time explain things to you clearly. With the connection to the rest of the 
 episodes, the story makes sense. Valve has an amazing engine, its easy to cheat (If you choose 
 to) , clean graphics with few bugs that you don't even notice. Extremely good game, and a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehluv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 2:03 am PT
Review:  Some of the best and worst points are listed below.
  
  + Graphics - Simply the best I have seen till date.
  + Sound - With excellent voice acting, sounds 
 guaranteed to creep you out, the sounds are great, worth a 9/10
  + Gameplay - Half Life 2 once again redefines the FPS genre. Each second brings something new, 
 whether you are making your way through the sewers, or passing through an infected village of zombies 
 at night.
  + Execution - The execution of the script is great, and one people won't easily forget.
  
  
 - Story - Even though the script has been executed flawlessly, the story itself is weak. You never 
 know what happened during the time between the games, or why everyone seems to know you, or why 
 an enemy in Half Life has suddenly decided to help (no spoilers!) .
  - Loading Times - Honestly, the loading times are longer than the playing times.
  
  Verdict 
 - A game you simply have to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefFreeman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:41 am PT
Review:  It was six long years before fans of Sierras fps classic Half Life got to finally play the sequel 
 to that fantastic game. The wait was well worth it, because the sequel is even better than its 
 predecessor, and is one of the best fps ever.
  
  Half Life 2 begins sometime after the first game, with protagonist Gordon Freeman apparently in 
 some form of stasis, awakened by the mysterious G-man to do his bidding. 
  
  The setting is now a European city called simply "city 17", which has been overrun and taken control 
 of by a mysterious cyborg alien race called the Combine. Though we are never given all the details, 
 they came through a dimensional rift in space and took over control of the earth in a matter of 
 7 hours. Gordon arrives by train, soon meets up with allies Barney, Dr. Kleiner, and Eli Vance 
 from the first game, as well as Eli's daughter Alyx Vance, who assists Gordon through much of the 
 game.
  
  Though the setting is different, everything about Half life 2 feels so much like the first game, 
 and and a good way. The story is always a partial mystery, with lots of gaps left to fill in for 
 the player, with some symbolism and clues from various dialogue, as well as newspaper clippings 
 on the walls you find throughout the game. The vortigaunts (alien enemies from the first game) 
 are now assisting the human rebellion in an effort to thwart the Combine menace. We still never 
 see Gordon's face or hear him speak, which helps to maintain the enigmatic appeal of our hero.
 
  
  The shooting and gameplay are extremely solid, with Gordon having a variety of weapons at his disposal. 
 Yes, the famous crowbar from Half Life returns as well! There are many points throughout the game 
 where Gordon is assisted by the human rebels, as well as Alyx Vance, and those sequences are great. 
 Thankfully, they are never too long, so as not to ruin the solo experience that is so important 
 to the Half Life series.
  
  What made this game really stand out from the trio pack of big fps fgames in 2004 (Far Cry, Doom 
 3) was the awesome and revolutionary use of physics. Gordon acquires a new device created by Dr. 
 Vance known as the zero-point energy field manipulator, or simply, the "gravity gun". With this 
 device, Gordon is able to catch, levitate, or throw any object (within reasonable size) like small 
 boulders, tables, chairs, crates, etc. As well as being a weapon, it can be used to form a shield 
 from enemy fire by holding the objects in front of you, or to help in the solving of puzzles, which 
 are still a mandatory part of Half Life. To be to the point, the gravity gun simply is awesome, 
 and you'll have a blast just fooling around with it. There are also 2 vehicle sequences in the 
 game that are great fun. 
  
  The Source engine has managed to hold up extremely well, even after 5 years, and the graphics in 
 Half Life 2 still look great. The human characters faces were the first in a game to really show 
 expression with meticulous detail, and the environments are all fantastic and varied, with my personal 
 favorite being Nova Prospekt. If you still don't have a PC that can run this game and only a ps3 
 or 360, I strongly advise you to purchase the Orange Box for either. The game is dirt cheap, the 
 visuals are great and you get the complete Half life experience in addition to Team Fortress 2 
 and Portal.
  
  Half Life 2 is a fantastic game that should be experienced by every PC or console shooter fan, 
 and there has never been another shooter that has managed to have such a perfect combination of 
 great action and narrative. It's a classic.
  --Chief
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper_d93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
 The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever The best game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lee-Wolfgang
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is seen as sort of a benchmark for graphics, gameplay, and story. Many people must 
 not play other games much.
  
  The graphics look spectacular at a first glance, starting the game waking up with a hallucination 
 of this pedo guy who put you in stasis in the last game. He has all these great facial animations 
 that make him characteristic. In fact, all the characters do, but the graphics don't go beyond 
 that. The rest is low texture resolution with ugly shadows and cheesy effects.
  
  About a third of the way through the game you get the Gravity Gun, apparently the most wonderful 
 aspect of the game, is merely a novelty. It's incredibly useless until the game makes you use it, 
 in which you move objects in order to solve incredibly easy puzzles with incredibly slipshod physics. 
 You're much better off really playing the game with conventional weapons. But, of course, they're 
 all generic and flat too. You can't zoom in, you can't switch fire modes, and you can't lose.
 
  
  The game is incredibly easy with abysmal AI with terrible aim. Someone who can't play Doom 3 on 
 easy can play through the entire campaign on hard without taking cover once. The only unfair thing 
 I can think of on the hard level is a combine shotgunner, who fires off three double-barrel blasts 
 without pumping his gun like you have to. Of course, that's just a bad programming error with Valve 
 to fault because they don't understand how their badly modified Quake engine works.
  
  The story is practically nonexistent except for the incredibly basic premise. Aliens have taken 
 over the world and you have to stop them. And of course everyone knows who you are even though 
 you were nonexistent for twenty years or so. The episodic sequels clear up this problem a bit, 
 but they aren't part of this game, now are they?
  
  The level design is kind of cool, but incredibly linear. This is a linear game with only one outcome 
 in each level. You go through gigantic cities, large coastlines, and dark and (very un-) spooky 
 villages with every route except one blocked off with some kind of wood barricade normally. And 
 even though you can destroy a dock with a crowbar, you can't break these down. Somehow, you always 
 manage to get to the right place that the mindless followers you have tell you to go to.
  
  It's good for all the mods, but they're only created because of the amount of advertising for this 
 game. There are tons of better engines out there with better graphical and physical capabilities, 
 but they're almost completely ignored.
  
  Get this game if you want a short collection of engine tech demos and eventually a few neat mods. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer978452
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is an amazing game. I had bought the Orange Box witch also includes 4 other great games. 
 
  
  Half-Life 2 is an engaging first-person shooter. It has almost everything you would want in a game. 
 It is a descent amount of game play, about 14 hours on hard. The graphics are the best I've ever 
 seen. They look real, people look and move like people, and the loading points are actually quite 
 short. But the thing that sticks out the most and is introduced right when you start the game is 
 the physics engine. Nearly everything can be picked up and thrown around as you please. characters 
 will actually react to thrown objects. You can throw a can at a civilian and they will tell you 
 to stop. Even though Gordon never said anything it makes you feel like you are actually there.
 
  
  Despite all of the incredible things in Half-Life 2 there are the few that let you down. The biggest 
 is the storyline. It does very little to continue the story oh Half-Life. Most of the game you 
 will be on the run to whatever location. They needed to include more info on what is going to happen 
 next. Another thing is it's to easy. Even on the hardest difficulty you are feeling as if you aren't 
 being challenged. The AI don't defend themselves, they just run at you or pop out from a corner 
 waiting 5 seconds before they shoot. There are a few things that make the game unrealistic: one 
 is the fact that on the hardest difficulty you can be shot many times before even needing a health 
 pack. It is the same situation with the AI, you can shoot them in the face 4 times before they 
 die. 
  
  Even with all of the things that went terribly wrong Half-Life 2 is unbelievable. It has almost 
 everything you would want in a game and more. 
  
  Overall I give this game 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianWalter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a excellente game, with stunning graphics and physics (for 2004) , solid storyline, 
 surprising soundtrack and a highly immersive gameplay.
  
  You play the role of Gordon Freeman, a man of few words, in a city full of soldiers and aliens 
 ready to kill you. Valve has intelligently put this limitation on Gordon Freeman's acting so it 
 may look that Freeman is taking the role of the player.
  
  The game has the ability of making you tense or excited in some parts, things that newer FPS like 
 Crysis have failed at.
  
  The linearity and difficulty level on the game is excellent, every time you need to go through 
 some place you have to stop to think how to reach the objective, but first you'll have to take 
 out anyone who try to stop you, which is not a very difficult task.
  
  It is really difficult not to like Half-Life 2 because everything a player would want is there: 
 nice story, good graphics, amazing physics, challenge and emotions.
  
  Buy it, finish it, review it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevieladeek
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm 53 and didn't play video games for awhile because my PC couldn't handle them. I'm 53, or older 
 than most of you, but I got my 83 year old Dad playing this and he loves it. (I gave him the Orange 
 Box for XMAS) . The last game before this I bought was several years age -- Unreal 2-The Awakening. 
 I recently bought a new pc and have have trying to play catchup on today's games. I do a lot of 
 research to see what might be a good choice (and the Orange Box was way up there.) I've also bought 
 Crysis, Crysis Warhead, Far Cry2 , Oblivion and Mass Effect.
  But I must say.... Half Life 2 is the greatest of all (I've also completed Episode 1 & 2) and I 
 can't wait for Episode 3.
  I realize Valve has spent a lot lot of time and resourses on Left 4 Dead, but nothing IMHO stacks 
 up to the Half-Life series.... and yes, I know it may come as a surprise, but I am engaged to Alex... lol 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is the sequel to the critically acclaimed Half life and honestly it is way better than 
 the original, Half life 2 sets you as Gordon Freeman in City 17, at first you will see how the 
 G-Man wakes you from sleep and then you are in a train, in this game you will see old and new characters 
 but lets review the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good for the game, the scenarios are diverse for example you will be 
 set in a mission in a beach and it look great, also in the city of Ravenholme where zombies live 
 the feeling of dread and horror is so great will all the shadow of the zombies on the wall, in 
 a few words in any mission you will get the feeling of the place.
  History: The story continues after Half life and you will have to first escape City 17 for meet 
 with old characters from Half life, it also introduces new characters like Alyx Vance one of the 
 most powerful allies of Freeman. The story is so well developed that you will want to continue 
 playing the next episodes of Half life 2.
  Gameplay: In the shooter area it is the same as other games but instead of being a simple game 
 that you must only shoot, you must drive cars, boats in some missions. Also with all the normal 
 guns from a regular shooter game you will have a gravity gun that will help you manipulate objects 
 for puzzles or throw objects at your enemies. The gameplay is great and you will not find problem 
 learning how to play.
  Sound: The voice actors did a good work with their characters, their voices sound like the situation 
 that their characters are in that moment, also the sound of the shoots, environment and enemies 
 go well and when you hear them you will notice that the quality of the sound is good.
  Overall: Half life 2 is one of the best fps games that you can find right now and despite the game 
 doesn't have a multiplayer option (Half life 2 deathmatch is another game only for multiplayer) 
 the story mode is so well developed that you will find that the game is great and worth a try. 
 If you haven't played it and you like games then I suggest and get it fast because the experience 
 from playing this game is great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will_518
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  I bought the orange box for 20, I thought that was an absurd price to pay for a 4 year old game. 
 But I was wrong, not because Half-Life 2 was good, or Team Fortress 2 is engaging, NO, it's because 
 portal was so amazing that it alone was worth the money. But of course that's another story.
  
  I spent a couple of weeks playing through Half-Life 2, an hour or two at a time. The first 
 scene in the game just off the train and into city 17, witnessing the totalitarianist state firsthand 
 and interactively was amazing. But that feeling of being the frightened average man fighting against 
 the tyranny is soon erased by the realisation that you are some scientist extraordinaire with a 
 fancy suit and can take a storm of bullets in the head before turning around and saying "ouch!".
 
  
  STORYLINE:
  
  There's not much I can say about the storyline, because there isn't one. All you need to know is 
 everybody who speaks to you is your best buddy, and you guys have to go and do whatever it is you 
 have to do. It reminds me of the storyline in Doom, the only difference is, in this game you have 
 friends.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Frustrating. Incredibly frustrating. 
  
  You get to solve puzzles such as placing one box in front of another, then jumping from box to 
 box, because the moment you touch the ground you get raped by spiders. Do you think it's a fun 
 experience to just put one foot in front of another? You'll get better grphics if you just took 
 a walk in the park.
  
  Another puzzle involved finding 3 batteries to open a gate, one of them was placed on a street 
 lamp / platform thing you can't get to, and behind a box so you can't see it. Do you think it's 
 fun to find that odd sock you can't find when you are late for school? You know your house has 
 better graphics and gameplay then this game.
  
  When you do get to shoot stuff in the game, which is often, it's just not all that satisfying. 
 Because the guns are generic and doesn't feel like weapons, but more like toys. I found the only 
 way to kill the enemies and enjoy the carnage like you are supposed to in a shooter, is by ditching 
 all the guns, and using nothing but the Gravity gun. But then the firefights becomes more like 
 a comic strip then an action movie.
  
  The vehicle sections were surprisingly good, the controls were all set up "corretly" for the keyboard, 
 so it's easy to use. And when it really gets going, the high speed chases on the water is hugely 
 satisfying. Which makes it even more annoying because every few minutes you have to get off the 
 boat and do a bunch of frustrating things like fighting and puzzles, etc, to open gates for your 
 boat. It's like eating a delicious pie, but having to take a 10mins break after every spoonful.
 
  
  PRESENTATION
  
  The source engine is technically very good, but artistically not pretty at all. I'm personally 
 prejudiced against the Source engine, because it's just not artistic like the JRPG engines, nor 
 stylish like Max Payne, nor realistic like Crytek engine; so it just doesn't look "pretty" or "beautiful", 
 it's just competent.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  I think Half-Life has gone down the same road as Unreal Tournament, is has become a technical demonstration 
 for the graphics and physics engines, rather a an actual game. You know, "Tech Demo", the sort 
 of thing men in suits go to board rooms and make presentations about, saying how good the graphics 
 is, how good the gameplay mechanics is, how good the physics is, etc, and HL2 shows it.
  
  The product Valve is offering in Half-Life 2 is no longer a video game, but a (multiplayer) modding 
 platform. It's a shame, because HL2 could've been an excellent game, if only they spent more time 
 making a game instead of a tech demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davemk7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  
  i started my half-life experience with this game , ep 2, and then purchased the original to see 
 what i had missed out on.
  
  most people think that the first game is the best in the series, but much like the trilogy of back 
 to the future movies, the second one kicked ass :)
  
  come to think of it, the half-life universe is so big that its like a big blur when you try to 
 remember exactly what happened in each episode. but i do know that this one was the best by far.
 
  
  i can say without doubt, that this is the game 99.9% of gamers will say is the best game ever created 
 on the pc. it is the most immersive and creative game i have ever played and i love it so much 
 much that the wordloveis like an understatment. so to say i megadore it would be more accurate 
 !!!!
  
  thank you valve, honestly, thank you from the bottom of my heart because
  not only did you create such a masterpiece in hl-2, but you also gave me counterstrike source for 
 free in the box.
  
  so there you have it, 2 masterpieces in one box and a full on assualt on your senses.
  
  respect.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ky9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I can't think of a thing that this game could have done any better. I'm a pretty casual 
 gamer but when I started this one, I was absolutely hooked. I have never been more immersed in 
 any game; I felt like I WAS Gordon Freeman. You're supposed to be a hero, and this game really 
 makes you feel like you deserve it. The story is nothing if not epic, because the whole scope of 
 the game is enormous -- it really feels like you're traversing a city, fighting in a postapocalyptic 
 world. 
  
  The fact that I could play this game on my Geforce 440 MX was noting short of a miracle for me, 
 and yet it also managed to look incredible. Even with my pathetic piece of crap of a graphics card, 
 I was pretty convinced that these were some of the best graphics I'd ever seen. And the NPCs are 
 stunningly animated and even more stunningly voiced.
  
  One thing I must mention is that Ravenholm is possibly the most brilliant level in the whole game. 
 It strikes a perfect balance between two things: scaring the crap out of you (who can forget the 
 first time they ran into a fast zombie? This was the first time I'd ever heard my brother scream 
 like that) and then giving you some rather ingenious and devious ways of blowing up/setting fire 
 to/crushing/otherwise disposing of your assailants. If Ravenholm weren't such an unpleasant place 
 to be in, I'd say that I loved to be in it. 
  
  Otherwise there's not much to say that other people haven't already said. This game is absolutely 
 stellar in all areas, from graphics to gameplay (which really hasn't changed since the first Half 
 Life and is thus perfect) to story. All I can say is, just play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budda_165
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the long awaited sequel to valves award winning game Half-Life, was it worth the 
 wait, you will find out in this review. Half-Life was the first FPS of its time to use physics 
 as a game play mechanic, although at that time it was limited to pushing boxes round. Well in this 
 instalment valve have once again pulled an amazing, physics filled game, which isn't lacking in 
 the graphics department either, out of their hats. If the engine in HL2 is anything like the one 
 used in HL1 then maybe this won't be just a simple play through of a game, expect quite a few fan 
 made games, and judging by mods like Brain Bread, Blue Shift and Opposing Forces for HL1 then we 
 could be in for some great expansions to the Half-Life series. The graphics in HL2 are amazing 
 just as its older brother's where for its time, using shadows, dynamic textures and lighting to 
 its full and breathtaking potential. Also the NPC choreography system allows for some simple but 
 extremely realistic sequences. The vast scale of HL2 is shown using some great vista's of citadels, 
 far away islands and city scanners blocking out the sun. 
  
  the story of Half-Life 2 start with a doctor Gordon Freeman, an Astrophysicist, arriving in city 
 17 a city under the strict governing of an alien power called the Combine, when he arrives in City 
 17 he meets with an old friend Barney from HL1, he must then travel through the city to find DR 
 Kliener, another HL1 character and Alyx the daughter of another character from his past Dr Eli 
 Vance. This game is a definite buy for those who enjoy amazingly brilliant games which continues 
 a brilliantly, epic series with a storyline which would put most Hollywood movies to shame. Half-Life 
 2 is a relatively silent game as it doesn't really have any music accept at key points in the game 
 such as big fights and parts of the story. Although the faint sounds of the propaganda blaring 
 from monitors, and combine radio communications. The lip syncing is amazingly accurate due to the 
 new source engine which makes very realistic NPC animations and epic cut scenes. Although there 
 are not really any cut scenes instead you get some live animated sequences which the player can 
 fully interact with.
  
  disappointing valve haven't really made HL2 to its fullest due to the fact that there are very 
 realistic physics everywhere such as the weight and material of a barrel or crate but in total 
 there are about 3 or 4 physics based puzzles in the whole game, and seeing as though the players 
 main weapon is a gravity gun which uses an objects physical properties to kill enemies and heavy 
 lifting, lots more could and should have been done. This isn't really that big of problem due to 
 the fact that the rest of the game is technically playable piece of art I think that we can let 
 the guys from Valve off on this one.
  
  HL2 fully caters for the FPS market with high quality graphics, and intense game play which will 
 entertain you for months or maybe even years. But don't just think that HL2 as a whole is the only 
 reason to buy this game, instead just think about what comes with it, Counter strike source, the 
 sequel to the award winning online multi-player FPS which has been used in countless computer game 
 competitions and has numerous Guinness world records. Counter strike uses the same engine and graphics 
 has HL2 so visually it is something to behold, also it's fast paced, killing action somehow pulls 
 you in and keeps you addicted until you are truly an expert. The fact that there are multiple weapon 
 choices and weapon combinations keeps you playing and testing which combination helps you pull 
 of the biggest killing spree.
  
  If you decide to buy this package on Steam, the online game market and community, you will also 
 be treated to some amazing third party mods, I expect to see another variation of Brain Bread the 
 hugely popular Third Party HL1 zombie mod which had everyone hooked and still does. Also be expecting 
 another HL SLK, which will enable you to create new maps, animations, weapons and even a few Machinima 
 movie (computer game movies.) this could spur on another series of the ever popular Freeman's Mind 
 from HL1. I see big, bright things in HL2' future and if I where you I would not dare miss them.
 
  
  As for the replay ability of HL2 well there is not a game like it, as shown by its older brother 
 HL1, the Half Life series is a massively flexible game and the Mods (second party Modifications) 
 will undoubtedly be very impressive and will keep you very satisfied. Half Life 2 is a very good 
 game with hours of game play and tons of replay ability, also the fact that it comes with Counter 
 strike Source, which complements HL2 hugely and looks just as amazing. This is the bargain of the 
 millennia and also a deal that you cannot and should not miss.
  
  Half Life 2 is an epic FPS which continues an amazing series of games. Its stunning visuals keep 
 the player immersed in the high paced action. This game is defiantly one to add to the collection 
 due to its 2 game in one handicap. Half Life 2 comes with the newly updated Award Winning Counter 
 strike Source. All around Half Life 2 is a great buy and a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoNemesis1166
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This was a Awsome game i loved it from beginning to finish and the musical score was just plainly 
 phenomenal. Especially when your in ravenholm it is just plain creepy at times it makes you feel 
 like you are watching a zombie movie :P. if you are not sure if you want to play this game give 
 it a chance it was sweet heh maybe im biased because i really enjoyed the first one too but still 
 well done valve. the weapon that one got at the end was enjoyable physics engine watching limbs 
 flail and dont forget sending a combine flying in the air and watching him spin. cmon people i 
 know that you did it and you can deny it. now im gonna have to start playing the next 2 installments 
 as they look pretty good too but for no i think i am gonna play some zombie killing action in a 
 mod or two and just wreak some havok on some dumb zombies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodMist
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  I've been gaming since i was 7 years old, and now, i'm 26. I've simply never played a game that's 
 as flawless as Half-Life 2 is. Why? Well i'll try to put it plain and simple. The gunplay is perfect. The 
 storytelling is unparrelelled in an FPS. The graphics, even now, are gorgeous. The voice acting and 
 character animations are unbelievable. The innovation, though, is the real kicker. There is no other 
 game that allows you to literally control the environment to your will with the legendary gravity 
 gun. And, give you what i like to call Puzzle Based Environments to get through, with that Gravity 
 Gun, and that use of physics. Nuff said. Half-Life 2 is the most innovative and perfect game of all 
 time.
  
  I really enjoy the part where you're busting into the jail, and you can control the Antlions. What's 
 another game where you have an experience that's as mind blowing as that one, or comparable? There 
 isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Joe_Griffe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, it took me about 15 hours to complete the game. Although I wished that the game would 
 have been longer, I am still very happy that I just completed one of the best PC shooters ever. 
 
  
  A few years back then I was not really enthusiastic about the game and regardless how popular it 
 became, I never really got interested of it. A couple of years later I played the first Half-Life, 
 which I thought was stunning. Although the original Half-Life was made in 1998, it's still an excellent 
 game nowadays. After completing the original Half-Life, I just had to play the second game in the 
 series, Half-Life 2. And it was even better than the original game.
  
  Half-Life 2 takes a place on Earth, in the fictional City 17 where the alien race named "Combine" 
 have conquered the Earth and enslaved the humans. The few people in the city who are still free 
 and rebelling against the Combine are named as "Resistance". And as you probably guessed, Gordon 
 Freeman's mission is to free City 17 from Combine's grip. And before Freeman knows it, he is being 
 hunted down by the Combine while completing several tasks in and around City 17. The storyline 
 of the game is not as good as it was in the original Half-Life, and the ending is very similar 
 to the original game, leaving all players the question: "What is the explanation to all this"?
 
  
  Half-Life 2 is visually very beautiful, keeping in mind that it's a game made in 2004. The weapon 
 sounds are also music to your ears. And I have to agree with the Gamespot reviewer, the voice acting 
 is excellent. 
  
  In Half-Life 2, Gordon Freeman receives several weapons, new and old, that help him to fight against 
 the Combine. None of the weapons are completely useless, and you will find yourself using all of 
 them at some part of the game. The most ingenious weapon invented in the history of gaming must 
 be the gravity gun, which allows you to grab non-biological objects and then toss them with great 
 power. Gravity gun will provide useful in many situations, a good example being the zombie-infested 
 town of Ravenholm. 
  
  Gameplay of Half-Life 2 is unique. I have never seen a game besides the Half-Life series that successfully 
 combines FPS, platform jumping and puzzles. In many situations of the game the player really has 
 to think what to do in order to move through here, get out of the room, etc. It's not just pure 
 "shoot 'em all", which is a really good thing. That's the reason why Half-Life 2 stands as one 
 of the best PC shooters even to this day. 
  
  Now let's talk about some flaws in the game. Major flaws? None. Minor flaws? A few. One of the 
 minor flaws is that artificial intelligence could've been better. The AI spans from ingenious teamwork 
 to lagging in corners. During most of the game AI is good enough, though. The second thing in the 
 game I was disappointed to was the game's shortness. Well, it was not really "short", but I wish 
 that the game would've been longer. That's why I have to take 0.5 points off from the score. Some 
 of the game's maps are also a bit linear, but I didn't really mind that. 
  
  All in all, Half-Life 2 is an outstanding PC shooter just like it's predecessor. Combined with 
 the outstanding visual design, excellent mix of first person shooting and platform jumping, and 
 the successfully designed enemies and weapons, Half-Life 2 is one excellent, if not perfect PC 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boriszex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  Today, it is practically impossible to say anything new about half-life and remain in the original. 
 Claim to the most important computer game in the entire history of virtual fun everyone will accept 
 or reject in accordance with their affinities, but nobody, and even its biggest critics can not 
 deny the fact it opened a new chapter in the development of 3D games, in the first OK my primary 
 campaign, and later, and multiplayer module Counter-Strike.
  
  Physics Half-Life 2 is something which will only talk in the coming years will be homework assignments 
 for all who intend to make a good 3D game.
  
  Although the style of play basically not changed, Half-Life 2 has a significant innovation that 
 is, by all odds, the consequences of what in the past few years happened on the gaming scene, to 
 the introduction of mission that have multiplayer character with the basic tactical elements . 
 The first half of a game dominated by the situation in which Dr. Frimen, travel from one location 
 to another, briefly joining small groups of rebels to achieve a common goal (usually the defense 
 certain territories) . He then became an equal part of the team, but has no control over the behavior 
 of other members. Towards the end, when the main hero becomes some kind of resistance leaders in 
 the field, things are slightly more complex because it affects the game in the domain of tactical 
 shooter, albeit in very mild form.
  
  Graphics is rich color and texture, which, although less than those in the Far Cryu, one of the 
 best examples of today's computer design. The geometry and structure of undistributed also deserve 
 praise. All in all this is the game which every1 should have in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmaner
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Okey Half-Life 2 is a very good game made by Valve Corporation. Half-Life 2 is the best story line 
 i have ever played. At the start of the game, the G-Man speaks to Gordon Freeman in a hallucination-like 
 vision as he pulls Gordon out of stasis and places him on a train going to City 17. The rest is 
 up to you to find out...
  
  Okey Half-life 2 Graphics are great! It uses the Source game engine, which includes a heavily modified 
 version of the Havok physics engine. As for game play the fighting is awesome. As you player navigates 
 through a linear set of levels, fighting off transhuman troops known as the Combine as well as 
 hostile alien creatures. Puzzles and sequences involving vehicles are interspersed throughout the 
 game, breaking up moments of combat.
  
  The shooting experience is very good and detailed you get to like it from the whole start .Half-life 
 2 is a game you wont get bored fast i've played it for 2 years i paused a little bit and started 
 playing it again. Gordon Freeman the character your playing as has a very interesting suit to. A 
 heads-up display at the bottom of the screen shows the player's health, energy, and ammunition 
 status, while a toggle screen shows available weapons at the top. Health and energy can be replenished 
 by picking up medical supplies and energy cells respectively, or by using wall-mounted.
  
  As for multiplayer i aint really a fan of that one its nothing really wrong with it its just that 
 i like i single player most
  
  There are many new games following Gordon freeman's story. There are two Episodes out right now 
 and the third is comming out maybe some where around the starting 2009. 
  
  As for its difficulty you will learn the game fast. The game starts calmly just like Half-Life 1 
 as you follow the story the difficulty will get higher and higher.....
  
  I think Half-life 2 is the best in its series so that's why im giving it a 10!
  
  Thanks for 
 reading....
  
  Hitmaner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  "The right man in the wrong place can make all the difference in the world. So, wake up, Mr. Freeman. 
 Wake up and smell the ashes.- Government-Man (G-Man)
  
  "Now, about that beer I owed you. It's me Gordan! Barney, from Black Mesa!" - Barney Calhoun.
 
  
  After you have woken up from your 20 year lasting stasis sleep and a 'long time no see (6 years 
 since Half-life!) ' meeting with your friend G-man (His quotes are never boring) you are teleported 
 into a train to meet our friend Samuel saying that he didn't see you get on... well that is not 
 the purpose of the game, I wouldn't have given it a 10 if it was just Samuel. As you get off the 
 train, the first thing you notice is a big screen with our former Black Mesa administrator Dr. 
 Breen on it, apparently lying about all the safeness and comfort in our City 17. You pass numerous 
 odd and dangerously looking people in masks pushing citizens around with their tazors known as 
 Combine. Eventually, a metrocop leads you to a suspicious room with a chair and blood all around 
 it, doesn't sound good eh? There, a combine takes off his mask and it is actually Barney Calhoun! 
 As surprising as it is, he tells you what is your next objective and even if it is still intro 
 of the game, I am not going to spoil the 'can' part for you.
  
  STORY: It is infact a bit odd that some critics and people say that the story of Half-life 2 is 
 bad. Some stuff that they had questions with was answered in Half-life's expansions like Half-life: 
 Opposing Force. The story of Half-life 2 is great overall, I don't know why people underestimate 
 it.
  
  The Good:
  1. Some sounds of the monsters have a connection to the game's lore (Strider's moan suggests that 
 it was an animal before the combine got a hold of it, I consider it a good factor due it's uniqueness) .
 
  2. It has some clear and sometimes amusing connections from the original Half-life (Barney's quote 
 above is clearly a connection to Barney in original Half-life, not a big factor though.) . 3. Great 
 Characters!
  
  The Bad:
  1. Infact it does have SOME questions left to answer, but either go play Half-life's expansions 
 or just play the episodes, enough questions answered for me to be satisfied. SOUND:
  
  This is usually what Valve does best, and it did it again.
  
  The Good:
  1. Enemy Sounds 
 hold a connections to the game's story. (See in Story, The Good)
  2. Perfect Monster sounds and very distinctive, even better in Surround Sound.
  3. Awesome Soundtracks!
 
  4. Fast Zombies are terrifying.
  5. Flawless voice acting. The Bad: None!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Half-life 2's gameplay is great overall, I love it when you have alot of Freedom in the game, 
 I always mash the sprint button when I can! I have read some recent people's review, and they said 
 that the controls are nothing new? They probably didn't think of Half-life's 2 ability to pick 
 up almost every possible thing ranging from soda cans to big bricks with your 'e' button and more 
 with your gravity gun...
  
  The Good:
  1. Great Freedom, fast character movements.
  2. A good variety and flavors of battle - each part of the game differs from the other thus not 
 repetitive.
  3. The best physics of 2004.
  4. Gravity Gun.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Somewhat weaker AI than I have expected. Enemies attack differently but nothing mindblowing 
 or more special than combine throwing grenades or gunship killing your rocket (although fast headcrab 
 climbing on to a wall and jumping back was interesting) .
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Half-life 2's graphics are superb in every possible aspect, the physics of the game make it look 
 even better. Although Doom 3 may have as good graphics or even better but it is not to be judged 
 since Doom 3 is focused on indoors and scary shadows while Half-life 2 is mostly about beautiful 
 outdoors and such.
  
  The Good: 1. Great Outdoors
  2. Directx9 (Not a great factor, every good game should have it by then) .
  3. Great character 
 detail.
  4. Facial expressions are the best of 2004.
  
  The Bad: None Meh!
  
  OVERALL:
  
  This is a mindblowing game of it's time. I haven't played anything better and it 
 should be a crime not to play this game. Half-life's 2 episode are great and maybe even better! 
 The Story of Half-life 2 is perfect, I am not sure why people say it's inferior. Gameplay is great 
 as well, but the AI may keep some enemies a bit easy - the difficulty level feels great since the 
 environment makes the game very balanced. Sound is what Valve does best so I don't need to explain 
 how does it feel to jump hearing Fast Zombie's growl. Graphics, beautiful outdoors and most perfect 
 face expressions I have seen yet. Buy this game now... how about now.... have you bought it yet?
 
  
  SCORE: STORY: 9.75 -- SOUND: 10+ -- GAMEPLAY: 9 -- GRAPHICS: 10 ........ OVERALL: 97.5% (Plus = 
 additional 0.25 to the score) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SragentThom
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Before you all go for my throat like a pack of rabid wolves; please think back on the game you 
 so passionately protect. Was it really the best game of all time? Was anything truly innovative? 
 Was there even actually a story? Not really. Having played the original Half-Life in 1998 and having 
 waited for a sequel, I am rather disappointed by the final turnout of the game.
  
  (Please remember that the 1-10 scale is based on 1 being terrible, and 10 being amazing. 5. Is. 
 Average!)
  
  Controls
  Well, the tried-and-true FPS controls are here. A simple W-A-S-D with Mouse look configuration, 
 with left as Primary fire and right as Secondary fire. Nothing new at all, this is pretty much 
 exactly what we saw in the original Half-Life, or any other First Person Shooter in the last 8 
 years for goodness sake. I believe that there is always room for some kind of innovation, and Valve 
 did not try for it here.
  Overall Score: 5/10
  
  Graphics/Visuals
  I could go on and on talking about how amazing this game looks, it is honestly the most beautiful 
 game I've ever played. The water effects are god-like, the facial animation and expressions are 
 totally realistic; this is obviously the most technologically advanced game of today. The light 
 blaring into your eyes at the end of a dark tunnel; an alien-zombie lurching out of the darkness; 
 a saw blade slicing an enemy in half; everything looks TOTALLY amazing. I can NOT reiterate enough, 
 it's obvious that a majority of the five years this game took to develop was placed in the graphical 
 engine. I could list great things from the engine for hours, but my favorite item from the whole 
 game were the energy orbs you could pull from power generators, they looked stunning. The graphics 
 are THE best part of the game. Period.
  Overall Score: 10/10
  
  Sound
  If lack of audio can somehow bother you, this is probably going to be a negative aspect of the 
 game. There are only six or seven situations where music appears in the game. Most of the time 
 it's only in to foreshadow a large conflict on the rise, and nearly always dies off within 30 seconds. 
 Albeit that this is a negative, the music IS well done, and when it appears it sounds great. As 
 for the effects: the weapons all sound unique and memorable. The army-issue suppression rifle has 
 an interesting zap to it, and the gravity gun's constant consoling hum to it is effectively average. 
 The negative aspect is that quite a few sounds are lifted straight from Half-Life. Which, in this 
 day and age, means that they're going to be of considerably low quality. Everything from the annoying 
 'crunch' of walking across the sand to the ancient blast of the Colt (6-shooter) has been inherited, 
 and even though it sounded fine in 1998, 2006 is a different issue.
  Overall Score: 7/10
  
  Gameplay
  This is where the game begins to falter. When I consider "Half-Life" I think back 
 to the challenging puzzles. Getting stuck and wandering around not knowing what to actually do. 
 Facing brilliant enemies and being placed in perilous situations. Half-Life&sup2; pretty much lacks 
 this totally. Sure, there are 'puzzles', but the most complex puzzle involved pressing an easily-found 
 switch, or finding a door required to advance (hardly a real puzzle at all) . The game is tedious 
 and repetitive; little to no thinking involved at all in most of the puzzles. Hell, I beat 95% 
 of the game by just blindly running forward and shooting. Which is another problem. Even though 
 I played the game on Hard the enemies were laughably easy. One can defeat just about every enemy 
 in the game by strafing, shooting, getting cover, and repeating. The AI for both teammates and 
 enemies seems to have almost not evolved at all. The toughest battle in the game can be easily 
 exploited by just hiding in a corner. Your allies seem to spawn indefinitely, making them a much 
 more expendable (and less strategic) asset. Another game play issue is the constant appearance 
 of health devices. There was only ONE location in the entire game where my health was extremely 
 low. Any of the dark ambiance attempted in zombie-infested Ravenholm was lost, after one figures 
 out that he has a weapon with unlimited ammo and one hit kills at his disposal. One constantly 
 finds medpacs and energy recharging posts. It's almost rare for health to be below the max at any 
 given point. Overall the game play seems to have deteriorated to an ironically complex "run-and-gun" 
 game, where you just have to follow your nose (or gun scope) to continue to the next stage of the 
 game.
  Overall Score: A disappointing 4/10
  
  Story
  Terrible. Maybe I should leave this section blank. It'd be a perfect metaphor for the game's story. 
 I'll tell it to you straight: the storyline for this game is downright abysmal. I've heard a ton 
 of excuses like "it makes the gamer think!" and "there is huge plot development," but truth be 
 told there isn't a real story. You get some conflict, some rising action, some more rising action, 
 a lot of rising action... and the Climax is basically the ending. There's no explanation for what's 
 happening, no real furthering of the story except that the world is under control of "The Combine" 
 and the world is in a 1984-esque setting. One would hope that after all your running, and all the 
 enemies you destroy there would be something significant. Something more than 4 sentences from 
 the G-Man. Maybe a conclusive ending. But no. NOTHING!
  Just a gimmick to make you buy Half-Life&sup3;, which will probably have as terrible a release 
 as this game. Overall I (and a lot of others) are highly disappointed in retrospect by the game's 
 story.
  Overall Score: 1/10
  
  Overall
  Maybe you'll want to buy this game for the graphical engine alone, or the modding tools, or the 
 multiplayer (which just suffered a lacking release; I've only heard bad things about it so far) , 
 or even for the sake of just playing the game, but I don't think anyone should look forward to 
 a good story, and when your predecessor is Half-Life, a good story is a crucial quality.
  
  Scream and threaten as you want, but this game gets a 6/10 for lack of what could have made the 
 game brilliant.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2-sohaib
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  I played this game at least 3 times and i'm reviewing it now after I had played most of the recent 
 games (Crysis, Mass effect, Fallout 3, Crysis warhead, Far cry 2, Bioshock) .
  
  well, this game beat them all. the  all perfect. this is my 
 favorite game ever.
  
  this game was the reason that made me love the FPS genre ,and was the only game that made me feel 
 so overtaken while I was playing it, it's the most exciting game ever made.
  
  I'm very sure that this game will rules the FPS genre for many years, and i'm not talking about 
 Half-Life 2 only, but all Half-Life games. (legends never die) 
  
  I played episode 1 & 2 and they are both great, and now i'm waiting for Episode 3.
  
  I'm a 
 little disappointed from the score that been given to it by gamespot (9.2) it deserves more than 
 that.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andcore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 s a gr8 game.. i havent played half life 1 before as i dint have a pc :) it s trully 
 awesome wtih outstanding gameplay and cinemantic experience, i liked the ingame characters and 
 the movie scenes dint involve any movie clips but in the game itself, hmm.. just play it and u 
 ll know wat i am saying :P
  
  i loved alyx and dog, the story is gr8, very hard to find any flaw except it s long :) the physics 
 is absolutely awesome.. i was able to play on my laptop without any problem, i reccommended it 
 to anyone!!
  
  Half life 2 s a gr8 game.. i havent played half life 1 before as i dint have a pc :) it s trully 
 awesome wtih outstanding gameplay and cinemantic experience, i liked the ingame characters and 
 the movie scenes dint involve any movie clips but in the game itself, hmm.. just play it and u 
 ll know wat i am saying :P
  
  i loved alyx and dog, the story is gr8, very hard to find any flaw except it s long :) the physics 
 is absolutely awesome.. i was able to play on my laptop without any problem, i reccommended it 
 to anyone!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Fisher_
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. I got this game, not expecting much, considering I bought it for $20 at 
 Circuit City. I installed the game, and loaded it, only to watch an extremely long opening sequence. 
 Starting off in the subway sparked my interesting. Definitely wasn't expecting that. As the game 
 went on, it just got better and better. More puzzles to solve. I couldn't stop playing this game. 
 The action sequences are really good. Once you play through the game once, I would suggest using 
 the command prompt and putting in some cheats to make it even better. This game never gets boring. 
 I've played it multiple times on different computers, and it runs smoothly and keeps me interested. 
 Great graphics, as well!! Overall, I give this game a 9 because though it's slow to get into, loading-wise, 
 it's definitely worth the time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazz81
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game is a very interesting to play it begins slow and steady with a few tricky spots here 
 and there and builds the excitement and action as you get further in, plenty of shooting and different 
 sorts of weapons, plenty of levels not one of those game you'll get through quickly, there are 
 cheats available if you wish to use them, i do that once i've finished the game and have a bit 
 of fun. The game on its own is great and well worth getting but the best part about it i found 
 was that there are many great mods you could install and play around with. There's one i love and 
 can't stop playing it is called insurgency a online first person shooter lots of action many different 
 maps to play and due to it being a mod of half life 2 its controls are all the same which makes 
 it easy to pick it up and play well. It very addictive if you like that sort of thing call of duty 
 type of play, it's a server based mod. There are a few episodes to half life 2 game so look into 
 it because there are packs you can buy that'll have the complete set. Once again definitely well 
 worth it many fun gaming hours to be played. I loved it so i'm sure you will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I was watching a movie about a week after I beat Half-Life 2 for the first time. There's a scene 
 in the movie where a helicopter falls out of the sky, and the camera was moving around the explosion 
 at a somewhat fast pace that reminded me of Half-Life 2 in the way that the game scripts things. 
 The player is always there, in the action, watching as things explode around him.
  
  I've heard criticism of Half-Life 2 because it's so heavily scripted and linear that it dulls the 
 experience. I don't understand this concept whatsoever. I found Half-Life 2's scenes to be more 
 potent and visceral because of the scripting, not "in spite of" it. When I'm playing wide-open 
 games such as Grand Theft Auto, while all of the scenes may be different and randomly created through 
 player interaction, I found Half-Life 2's movie-like world to hold more emotion and action than 
 Grand Theft Auto could ever brag about; the movie/game comparison deepens further.
  
  For example, the game uses a technique that has become popular in modern media recently thanks 
 to the relative success of the movie Cloverfield, a technique I like to call the "actor without 
 any lines." The player takes the role of Gordon Freeman in the play, Half-Life 2, and the other 
 characters act and recite their lines around the player as if he's an actor as well. It just so 
 happens, however, that the player has no lines, and is therefore able to enjoy the script even 
 more. It's the ultimate front-row seat.
  
  This creates immersion that's like no other. The word "immersion" has become tainted due to the 
 mainstream video game press, but here there's no other term in the English language. It's more 
 than a big TV and surround sound; it's about being there, in the world, as if you really are Gordon 
 Freeman. The game reacts to the player as if they are Gordon Freeman, hence, the player is more 
 immersed in the world around him. This is beyond role-playing and cosplay. This is about the game 
 creating the player's identity and reacting to it. This in contrast to in most games where it's 
 usually the player controlling their own experience.
  
  The first Half-Life brought innovation and spectacle to the first person shooter arena by combining 
 the violence and simplicity of Quake with the exploration and atmosphere of Super Metroid. Half-Life 
 2 does a lot of the same thing, by taking Halo and adding a splash of Metroid Prime to the mix. 
 I'm in the camp that enjoyed Half-Life 2 to a greater degree than 1, primarily because I enjoyed 
 Halo and Metroid Prime much more than Quake and Super Metroid; the combination, then, is guaranteed 
 to whet my pallet more efficiently. But here in Half-Life 2, Halo's pace and drive has been turned 
 into Metroid Prime's immersion.
  
  But while the first game relied on exploration and determination, Half-Life 2 is built around the 
 game's own sense of logic to guide the player. Because the game is so heavily scripted, if the 
 player can access a section of the game at all they're probably going the right way. Enemies pop 
 up to lure the player in a direction that moves the game along its brisk and breathtaking path 
 along scenarios that other games pale in comparison to. Occasionally it's a little too fast, but 
 that's why we bought the game, not rented it, right? A second playthrough offers details and enhancements 
 that weren't there the first time, once we stop and smell the roses a bit.
  
  The game is indeed a fast paced one. Halo had a lot of really cool scenarios that were extended 
 over a period of hours so that by the end of them they weren't so nifty any more. Half-Life 2 knows 
 exactly when something is no longer fun, and it knows how to reward the player when they complete 
 something. Just when I was getting tired of the water-boat level, a helicopter shows up and starts 
 shooting at me. Just when I was getting tired of the gunfight, a new weapon comes down the tube. 
 Ever changing, always moving, and always running, the game keeps the player on their toes by throwing 
 them in so many situations that by the end of it the entire thing felt like a marathon.
  
  Once the player solves a physics-based puzzle or defeats a very large number of enemies, the game 
 usually rewards the player with some sort of incentive to keep moving forward. Sometimes it's a 
 new piece of story. Sometimes it's a new gun or location. In fact, I'm inclined to say that the 
 fourth and third level from the end are the game's "final exam" that require the skills that have 
 gotten the player thus far, and that the final two levels of the game are the reward for beating 
 it. I have to say, the final two levels of Half-Life 2 were the most fun I've ever had playing 
 a video game. Ever. Period. A stunning achievement in modern media, and one that will live in video 
 game history.
  
  But the entire game is fun as well, just on a different note. It's always changing, never getting 
 boring, and it's hard to call any of the sections of the campaign weak. Some of them worked better 
 than others, sure, but they were all very effective at making a space for the player to see and 
 watch, and then giving the player something to do. And I wouldn't say it was a walk in the park, 
 either; I died plenty of times. Most games I would just give up at that point, but Half-Life 2 
 never seems unfair or impossible. There's always some way to move forward.
  
  And the game never forgets the basics, either. The gunfights are pretty good; they aren't the main 
 spectacle like in Halo, but they are still quite enjoyable and will please any action film fan. 
 The wide variety of the guns keeps everything entertaining and give the player options in choosing 
 their fights. The AI is competent and generally shows knowledge of their spaces, and some of the 
 monsters put up a fair fight.
  
  And everything looks so nice. It's hard to say that just by sheer graphics quality; the Source 
 Engine is aging by modern standards. But it's been optimized so well that even on my hobbled-together 
 desktop, the game can render half of an urban environment and still look amazingly fancy doing 
 it. The art design is of the pedigree that the Half-Life series has now been known to offer, and 
 some of the games locations of models are just downright beautiful, attention grabbing or even 
 disturbing. The built-in physics engine adds to the attention, and the game is sometimes built 
 around that, giving players puzzles with real-world physics.
  
  Because of the low level of graphics intensity, the game is allowed to do things that few games 
 did when Half-Life 2 was released. When the City 17 levels are loaded, the player can see for a 
 good half-mile from some vantage points. For about half of the game, the citadel can be seen from 
 afar, sometimes even moving about and doing things. Multiple helicopters zoom in and out of battles, 
 and dozens of ground forces do battle all at the same time. A lot of games do this now, with the 
 more powerful Xbox 360 and DirectX 10 tecnology, but Valve already did all this, and two years 
 earlier. Only once did my budget machine wince, and that was on the aforementioned "final exam."
 
  
  When I finished Half-Life 2, I could have gone out, bought the next two episodes immediately, and 
 discovered what happened next. But I didn't. Something held me back. I just said to myself, "Hell, 
 that was a great game." Did I not want to diminish the full game's grace by jumping to the next 
 one? Perhaps. I think it just has to do with the fact that within those ten hours, I had done a 
 crap-load of stuff, and I wanted to just take a breather. "No one is more deserving of a rest," 
 says the G-Man. Maybe he's right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figsnake12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Half life 2
  
  The half life franchise has always had a unique air about it. Though many modern FPS's follow a 
 similar strain; use of a physics engine, puzzles mixed into the gameplay and a deep story evolving 
 throughout the game, the game has always been different, more sophisticated dealing with any challenge 
 with ease. This is by no means an easy game to play, limited mainly to PC gamers who tend to be 
 older and enjoy gaming in a comfortable moderation. The average console playing chum will struggle 
 to appreciate half-life (I only started getting into it a year or so ago) . Having said this, all 
 of valve's half-life releases have been released on some form of console (including their add-on 
 games like team fortress or decay) . 
  
  Enough about the franchise in general, lets move on to the release of the original half-life, in 
 2001. The game was acclaimed as a legend of its time, with advanced AI, graphics and a storyline 
 that left most novels of the last century in the dust. Looking back, there are actually many faults 
 with the game; unrealistic movement, unrealistic firing sequences, small landscapes, repetitive 
 gameplay and the explosions look like a photo just stuck into the game. But for some reason nobody 
 cares, I don't care  I just got off it at 2 am last, well today. Very few games earn a respect 
 like that; I've never red anything critical about half life one or two (well OK a few things about 
 2) . 
  
  And so I finally arrive at half-life 2. Most sequels to a successful game fail miserably. A few, 
 like battlefront 2 or Halo 2, are quite successful but obviously aren't pushing into any new boundaries. 
 All sequels seem to have a few things in common; ambition, large budgets and new ideas. The theory 
 (a false theory, by the way, but one of these decades they'll get the hang of it) goes that if 
 a game can be so successful on a reasonable budget, it will be unbelievably successful on a stupidly 
 large budget. Usually they go completely off course and miss the entire reason why the original 
 was so good. Something like the fast and the furious (this works for movies, music etc too) , a 
 tasteful and well made film, becomes 2 fast to furious  pure sh*t. 
  
  It's taken four paragraphs to come to the point when I can now informed you now well-educated ass 
 that half life 2 is a rarity; a sequel that not only matches, but challenges the original. Like 
 all others, half-life 2 has a large budget and a ton of ambition  but here it pays off. The first 
 thing you realize is the hugeness of the physics engine. In half-life it was present and praised, 
 but here it seems to envelop everything in a metaphorical bubble of super-realness  powered by 
 the revolutionary "source" physics engine. The graphics have also taken a boost, ending your conversing 
 with identical drones, made out to be different from the rest of the flock. So far - very good. 
 
  
  As the game evolves many of the old characters pop up. You follow the resistance movement against 
 your "benefactors"  the alien host who now rules over the earth  using the "combine" police (or 
 civil "protection") to dictate over the people. There are a few vehicles used throughout the game, 
 and some new weapons  like the alien-tech pulse rifle or the very popular "gravity gun", all of 
 which are very well designed to fit to the circumstances. Another development is team command  
 though this plays a very minor roll in the game, and raises one of Half-Life's main criticisms; 
 the lousy AI of those under your command. 
  
  Overall I am torn; is this game better than the original? One part of me argues that the original's 
 flaws can be put down to inadequate technology at the time, and that almost no original has been 
 outclassed by its predecessors  at least in terms of how good he game was at the time. In later 
 "episodes" of the game, it also becomes clear that the focus on puzzles and mental trickery has 
 almost entirely disappeared, which decides many Half-Life fan's minds. It seems even Valve made 
 some mistakes with the high-end sequel.
  
  Another part compares the original's lingering characteristics of the 32 bit era of gaming (Playstation, 
 Nintendo 64 Windows 95 & 98 etc) as compared to half-life 2's graphics, gameplay etc  which is 
 not just on a another level, but on a completely different plain. Half life lingers on the boarder 
 between the 32 bit era and the 6th era (Ps2, Xbox Windows XP etc) where as half-life two sits on 
 the 6th era/ next gen (Ps3, Xbox 360 vista etc) . Play either game, I guarantee their quality. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the sequel to Half Life, a classic PC game released in 1998. Half Life 2 lives up 
 to the original in every way and brings with it a cast of strong characters and many cinematic 
 moments. There are some issues with odd design choices, poor story, and a slow beginning but if 
 you get past this, you'll be engrossed in an awesome game which for the most part is fun to play 
 through from start to finish. 
  
  You play as Dr. Gordon Freemen, a mute scientist who was a reputation that often precedes him. 
 You meet up in the beginning with Alyx Vance and you essentially begin to quest to find her father 
 after he is kidnapped in a combine assault. The plot takes off from there and there are some twists 
 and turns but nothing truly shocking happens. The plot is nothing special but the story is told 
 in an innovative way. Rather then relying on the traditional concept of cut scenes the story is 
 told on the fly and all story and character development happens in the game. There are issues with 
 this though. For one many of the questions raised by Half Life 1 are not answered and we get no 
 more information on Gordon Freeman which is somewhat annoying. We'd wish to learn more about this 
 man but he is never developed which makes him sort of stale. The game actually by the end raises 
 more questions then before. My hope is that we figure out what happens in Episode 1 and Episode 
 2.
  
  The gameplay in Half Life 2 really isn't special but there is enough innovation to give it a refreshing 
 feel. For one many of the weapons are run of the mill but there are some very interesting weapons 
 such as the gravity gun, the crossbow, and the rocket launcher. The rocket launcher has a laser 
 guide which makes it a lot of fun to use especially against striders. The gravity gun is the most 
 unique new weapon. Manipulating gravity and shooting anything at your enemies is awesome and there 
 is quite a lot of variety in it's use. The rest of the weapons work as expected and cover no new 
 ground. What's missing though is a sniper rifle, the game begs for one at times but it's a shame 
 there is none. Enemies at times can seem braindead though and this is a small complaint from me. 
 Usually they present a good challenge but sometimes they just go awry. 
  
  One more complaint I have about the combat is the lack of melee. The enemies melee you but for 
 some reason you can not. I never understood this and I find this to be an odd design choice but 
 it's never a big deal. 
  
  The game also has a few driving sequences which for the most part are alright but can become repetitive. 
 The vehicle sections last for far too long and the control is not as tight as it could have been. 
 They're alright but they don't prove for any great moments in the game. There are also many puzzling 
 and platforming parts. The platforming is a lot of fun but the puzzles are kind of dumb such as 
 one part where you need to use a very annoying crane to move a vehicle. It is so annoying and the 
 control is awful. Luckily the platforming more then makes up for it, it's a ton of fun to platform 
 through the well designed levels and with the gravity gun a whole new dimension is made. Though 
 it is not frequent to be forced to platform it happens enough to keep one happy.
  
  Half Life 2 is made on one of the most versatile engines ever, the source engine. Buying Half Life 
 2 alone for the source engine is worth it. Not only is there a myriad of mods out there for the 
 engine but the engine is gorgeous. The whole game holds up some four years later and the graphics 
 are awe inspiring, smooth, and crisp and they'll run maxed out at 60 frames per second on any decent 
 modern system. The characters are rendered beautifully and the game has strong fluid animation. 
 The physics are also great and the game has many epic moments which are due to the physics. These 
 physics are some of the best in any game. The game also sounds amazing and has some decent albeit 
 rare music. The voice acting is excellent and helps bring the characters to life. It makes the 
 game feel far more cinematic and this is always welcome.
  
  Overall Half Life 2 is an excellent game well worth playing. Though there are notable faults, Half 
 Life 2 does enough right to be considered a must play and for fans of the original it's a no brainer 
 to get this game. Even if you have not played the original though I still highly recommend Half 
 Life 2 and even today in 2008, you'd be hard pressed to find a more enjoyable single player first 
 person shooter. 
  
  Pros: Great graphics to this day, strong voice acting, cinematic, innovative story telling techniques, 
 good looking environments (with some exceptions) , decent story, gravity gun, many many many mods, 
 great platforming
  
  Cons: Other then the gravity gun not many other cool weapons, no melee, dumb AI at times, moves 
 very slowly in the beginning, bad driving sequences, annoying puzzles, sometimes confusing in where 
 to go, raises a lot of questions
  
  Overall: A great game well worth checking out; recommendable to just about anyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheYokai
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  I don't even know where to begin. I guess I'll say right off: Half-Life 2 is currently the best 
 FPS you can play at this point in time. Its astounding graphics, environments, characters and story 
 create something truly epic. 
  One of the first things anyone will notice about the game -- about any FPS, really -- are the environments 
 that you play in. The scenery is so very atmospheric. At the beginning of the game you are dropped 
 off in City 17, ruled by the totalitarian Combine. Many little details and scripted events create 
 the perfect image of an oppressive police state. You'll be surprised at the number of times a Civil 
 Protection officer walks up to you, baton raised threateningly, informing you that there's nothing 
 to see here, while his coworkers are beating up civilians behind him. Later on, you'll end up in 
 a village swarming with the headcrab zombies from HL1. The only survivor is the local reverend, 
 gone slightly crazy spending his days blowing away his former congregation. Signs of this madness 
 are everywhere, from vicious traps to grisly displays of severed zombie parts. The level is overall 
 quite a chilling experience. The list goes on, too, each level having thousands of little details 
 that put you in just the right mood.
  Another great aspect of Half-Life 2 is the quality of the engine. While the graphics are not at 
 the near-photorealistic level that appeared around 2006, they still have yet to look dated, even 
 four years later. The Source engine seems to be truly timeless. Subtle lighting effects, ultradetailed 
 textures and very realistic physics create game that's never tiring to look at.
  While I'm on the subject of graphics, I'll talk a little about the characters. I still think these 
 are some of the most humanlike characters in a game to date. One can assign faces to names, as 
 they actually have faces. Let's face it, every character in a game like Gears of War looks pretty 
 much exactly the same, with the exception of, maybe, facial hair arrangement. In HL2, the people 
 you meet have faces modeled after real humans, and enough facial muscles to simulate actual expressions. 
 Not only this, but they're excellently voice-acted to talk mainly as real people would talk. The 
 dialogue is casual, humorous, and intense at all the right moments. Very little sounds scripted, 
 except when someone is alone with Gordon Freeman and having an entirely one-sided conversation.
 
  That is the biggest -- and probably the only noticeable -- flaw this game has. Dr. Freeman again never 
 opens his mouth. While this does serve its intended purpose of immersing the player in the character's 
 mind even more fully, the protagonist is really the character you know least about. Any information 
 anyone would want to know about Gordon is told to him by the other characters. This especially 
 gets ridiculous when the lead female character starts flirting with him -- it's a ludicrously one-sided 
 relationship. But it's a small flaw compared with the awesomeness of everything else.
  And now for the final element I'd like to talk about: The storyline. If you played HL1, chances 
 are good you'll have more questions than answers in the first five minutes of the game. The plot 
 is so huge, what with the intricate relationships between characters overshadowed by the origins 
 of the mysterious Combine -- and that too overshadowed by by the even deeper mystery of the G-man. 
 By the time the biggest cliffhanger ever hits you in the face by the end of the game, you'll be 
 left begging for more. Thank God for episodes 1 and 2. 
  Half-life 2 is a must-play for anyone who likes the idea of a FPS that runs a little deeper than 
 "shoot all the uglies on sight". It's a masterwork of atmosphere. gameplay, and storytelling, and 
 is worth every cent you spend on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juk3n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  First off i will start by letting you all know, i played through Half-life2 OC - episode 1 & 2 
 all 3 games back to back. With that said, FPS made after this game should take note, this is how 
 it should be done.
  
  Gameplay: Half-life - basically it plays like Half-Life, which is just fine by me Lots of Bang 
 Bang, a few puzzles thrown in for good measure typical shooter stuff right? 
  
  Wrong! It's the whole presntation you have to take into account here TRUST ME, if you have any 
 interest in playing this game get all three parts and play them back to back, this is possibly 
 the most complete game world ive ever seen in a game. You really do feel the grand scale of things 
 from the go. The sense of urgency is there and it propells you forward through out the whole campaign. 
 Ive never played such a non-repetitive shooter in all my gaming life. You really get the feel of 
 progression from start to finish. Theres nothing wrong with "typical shooter stuff" especially 
 when it's executed so perfectly.
  
  Graphics: Great by todays standards, does the job very well and helps even further with the immersion. 
 No complaints.
  
  Sound: Fantastic, nailed. As i said before the package is perfect like an interactive movie it 
 draws you in, and everything that other shooters aern't are revealed when you have played through 
 this perfect example.
  
  Nothing was missing, i was compelled to finish and i loved every minute of it. If you are the type 
 of young gamer that has never played half-life (og) and /or any of the first series expansions. 
 You will definetley be at a loss when it comes to understanding a little of the backstory - and 
 will most likely not develope that character bond with the hero as deeply as possible. But by no 
 means should you miss this just because you missed the first series. 
  
  Some gamers who are too young to have caught the first series and picked up something like Halo 
 series or Gears series before playing this might be so ignorant as to see this game as a step backwards, 
 technically. But gamers like that have missed the point.
  
  This game is very definition of Quality before Quantity, Substance over Flash.
  
  Play it.
 
  
  Personel note. I can only hope episode three will see the awakening of Adrian Shepard - fans know 
 what i mean. I sure did miss those super fast Spec Black Op agents from Opp Force.
  
  End
  
  Juken
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayqueCmarque
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  The first Half Life was an instant classic and it's inevitable sequel had very high standards to 
 live up to. In my opinion, Half Life 2 is every bit as good as the first. 
  Though released nearly six years later, Valve maintained the same basic formula as the 2 original 
 but at the same time, reinvented the series to next-generation standards. The graphics are amazing 
 and the new game mechanics (such as the gravity gun) have influenced countless of titles that followed 
 after it's release. The story was also very engrossing and paced perfectly as the game progressed. 
 Though the game is left with a cliffhanger, games will be more than satisfied when the game comes 
 to a conclusion. In addition to the great single player which takes 12 ours + to complete, the 
 game also comes with Counter-Strike Source and Half Life 2 death match which are both very fun. 
 
  Anyone remotely interested in FPS's will enjoy Half Life. Action packed and innovative, Half Life 
 2 is one of the best PC games ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gippal56
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I've been meaning to do this for a long time. Because I will flat out be honest, these games are 
 by far the best I have played. HL2 has been my personal favorite game for so long. The technology 
 and the graphics on this game were just flat out, ahead ot its time when it was released. Its been 
 so long since I have played a game that ran as well as this one. Multiplayer is a blast, but extremely 
 difficult. You have to learn to honestly practice this game to get good, and ladder. Congrats if 
 you agree with me, you suck if you don't. Try this game, you will not be disappointed. AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZINGAMAZING AMAZING AMAZING I can't say this enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraeg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Over a year ago I submitted a review of this game proclaiming it as a "masterpiece". I have decided 
 that was a tad presumptuous. Technically and in terms of gameplay it achieves remarkable heights, 
 yet it is an experience which I found to still be greatly flawed. However, we shall start with 
 the positives.
  
  All the mechanics of a shooter are brilliantly realised in the game. Weapons feel like they pack 
 appropriate punch (although perhaps not the pistol which takes a few too many shots to bring down 
 a combine soldier) and there is enough interaction with the environment to make one feel connected 
 with it. Physics puzzles are diverting and occasionally innovative and the gravity gun is entertaining 
 to use. My major gripe with the gravity gun is that there is too much ammo to make you feel like 
 you must fall back on fighting using the environment. As a result I only used it when forced. This 
 would usually detract from the experience but I was only forced into its use once and that was 
 in the ammo deprived Ravenholm in the most intense experience in the a game I've had for a long 
 time.
  
  It achieves graphics which - although now four years old still - are still very capable. The first 
 close-up shots of G-Man instantly showcase this and the quality is maintained throughout the game. 
 The lighting and colours are used to great effect in City 17 and more particularly Ravenholm. City 
 17's design makes it feel like a true city while also capturing the idea of oppression with it's 
 locked doors, martial law and grey, sparse interiors. Ravenholm is an even greater triumph, making 
 environmental hazards fun (instead of overly contrived as they have a habit of being when designed 
 with less care) while not diminishing one's fear of the surroundings. The sound design (something 
 I know nothing about) seems very solid and has no problems which jar me out of the experience.
 
  
  While on sound design I feel compelled to criticise Gordon Freeman's unfortunate muteness. I shall 
 resist because I see it as a good technique for making you observe the actions of others. Unfortunately, 
 other people do nothing of any significance. The G-Man's control of the player and his seeming 
 omnipotence show that it is he who is in control and that he is the games main focus. 
  
  This is where my real problem with the game lies. Communicating with him only twice gives just 
 two pieces of genuine exposition and wastes the most compelling character. The rest of the game 
 races from goal to goal while progressing events nicely but taking us no closer to a conclusion. 
 One can argue that this is only the first of four episodes and that it is meant to create anticipation 
 for the next episode. But if one forgets or is simply not told the thrust of the plot because of 
 such a lack of exposition, does the game not need to become more compact and immediately fulfilling 
 or make more use of the characters as tools to explain why actions are being taken in a less implicit 
 manner that does not rely on knowledge of the previous game.
  
  Overall it is an excellently paced game which is a truly fantastic example of an FPS. However, 
 its episodic nature as a fraction of a whole experiences and total lack of narrative fulfillment 
 that goes with this means that it should only tentatively be regarded as a masterpiece.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticDynamite
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is considered by many people to be the greatest PC game - read "PC game", not "PC FPS" 
 - ever released. After giving it two play-throughs I can easily say it is certainly not the product 
 it's being hyped up to be by critics and fans; I have a multitude of gripes about this game I'll 
 cover later. However, Half-Life 2 still packs plenty of exhilarating moments, and in the end is 
 worth checking out if you're a fan of FPS games.
  
  In HL2, you play as Gordon Freeman, a former researcher at the top secret research facility Black 
 Mesa turned freedom fighter when brought into a post-apocalyptic world ruled by aliens known as 
 the Combine. The Combine's goal is simple: gradually assimilate humanity into a mass of slaves 
 that can do nothing but work for the combine. Though the kind of alien ruling over Earth plot has 
 been done before, Half-Life 2's world and story is done correctly and believably unlike contemporaries 
 such as Battlefield Earth (a really bad B-movie/Scientology ad with John Travolta) , Doom 2, and 
 Halo 3.
  
  That brings us to the game's next big strength, and that is it's environment. Although the game 
 came out late 2004, the Source engine still looks great in 2008. And the best part; it's optimized 
 very well, unlike Doom 3's engine which can slow to a crawl whenever there is smoke on modern machines. 
 The world around you looks crisp, detailed, and ultimately very believable. The only thing missing 
 that would make it truly immersive is fluent sound to correlate with the well-constructed environments.
 
  
  Now onto the game's problems. First and foremost, the gameplay. Though the last third of the game 
 is exciting and is packed with superb moments (running with a fully-charged gravity gun at a mass 
 of soldiers is just plain awesome) , the rest of the game feels lacking when compared to contemporaries 
 Doom, Quake, Call of Duty 4, and even (dare I say it) the Halo series. The driving sequences that 
 plague a good fourth of the game are repetitive, bland, and simply not fun, especially when fighting 
 an endless horde of easy to beat antlions. And the "puzzles" that come in occasionally during the 
 first third of the game are a joke, consisting of find-the-switch exercises that simply interrupt 
 the pace of the game and do little else.
  
  That's not to say Half-Life 2 is a bad game in any means; it's often just not as engaging as other 
 shooters. However, the last third of the game from Nova Prospekt onward is truly great. Often you 
 fight masses of police and giant walkers with your makeshift weapons during this third, and the 
 action never really stops. And although the rest of the game isn't nearly as engaging, it still 
 offers up a nice world to immerse yourself into, particularly during the first third of the game 
 when the Combine police are trying to capture you, and although you fight a handful of police with 
 a couple of weapons during this part, there isn't a point in the game where you're not feeling 
 like Gordon Freeman, the last free man on Earth.
  
  In the end, Half-Life 2 has enough noticeable problems that more than keeps it from being the greatest 
 game ever made. It does, however, offer plenty of engaging moments, particularly during the end 
 of the game, along with a superbly crafted environment that makes it worth picking up if you're 
 a fan of the FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odysseas
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Great storyline. Very smart. The game-play is simple and quick to learn. Graphics and sound are 
 very good due to nice light effects and smooth textures, not aggressive to the eye. Nice weapons 
 and tricky but clever riddles. The whole concept sucks you in the screen and you're feeling every 
 moment of the game.
  
  Half-Life 2 assaults you with a variety of game-play styles and memorable moments, all executed 
 with amazing precision. Half-Life 2 may not reinvent the first-person shooter, but improves on 
 the original game in almost every way, and brings one major innovation to the table whose effects 
 will likely be felt for years to come. For the first time in six years, we actually have a PC game 
 that can arguably be called the "best first-person shooter ever."
  
  Unfortunately, Half-Life 2 often fails to provide the explanations you're looking for. The story, 
 penned by Half-Life scribe Marc Laidlaw, continually raises more questions than it answers. What 
 happened after Black Mesa? Where has Freeman been since then? Like an X-Files plot on overdrive, 
 the game continually teases you with tidbits and clues as to what's happened, but never really 
 connects the dots. The disappointment probably won't set in until after you finish the game, but 
 I suspect it could be the fans' main gripe with Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: join993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  You start in City 17, a city more or less ruled by a weird alien race called "combine", Their way 
 of ruling earth is more than abnormal. You start out on a bad way with them, they force you to 
 pick up a can that they throw down themselves, and this is the beginning of a conflict where Gordon 
 is trying to kill them all... Naaah... But that do happen, but that is not a reason for vengeance. 
 Anyway the Combine abuse mankind and you can get killed of worse for just being in the wrong place 
 at the wrong time. Anyway you soon meet Barney, dressed out as a combine soldier and working undercover. 
 He will later show you to Dr Kleiner and soon he gives you the Hazard suit. You also meet Alyx 
 Vance along with Eli Vance. Anyway the "Citadel" As it's called where the Combine reside is emptied 
 of soldiers since the homecoming of Gordon, he messes up stuff for them by getting a faulty teleport 
 into the citadel, but soon getting out. This is more or less the beginning of the end for city 
 17, as the combine will go berserk on City 17 as they wont stop for anything to find Gordon. 
 
  
  It's the Source engine that made this game, the graphics are great and you can't expect anything 
 else. Exactly what cons this game have I cannot see... The graphics are great, and you don't need 
 such a good computer as you might think, the game do much with little. The sound effects are good 
 and the sound of all guns and weapons are great, the vehicles have a masterly roar when you hit 
 the juice. The game do great at scaring you, unless you have a mind of steel.. This Ravenholme 
 that is more or less a deserted town infested with zombies and a crazy priest.. That town is dark, 
 with nearly only burning zombies as light, that town is really scary since you never know what 
 you have hiding behind the next corner, and you know that there will come something but you don't 
 know where!! You go around tipping on your toes, you just go around and bracing yourself for the 
 spook to come but when it comes you will get scared. For example, I was at the top of a house, 
 I hear howling far far away and I stay put trying to spot the zombies before they see me, but then 
 BOM! they come from behind... This is a scary game that will surly get you spooked, but in a good 
 way. This is overall a great game that you gotta get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenLiquid
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 shocked the world in November, 2004. As Maximum PC simply put, 11 out of 10: "best 
 game ever made". It's been four years, and 50 bajillion FPSes later. I originally rated it 9.8, 
 but where does Half Life 2 stand now?
  
  The game begins with a "rise and shine" note from the ever-creepy G-Man, before lunging you headfirst 
 into the run-down setting that becomes your primary playing field: City 17. From there, you are 
 chased by Combine, discovered by the rebels, and sent to all corners of the Earth before finally 
 stopping at the Citadel like you were suppose to in the first place. The plot certainly isn't much: 
 a lot of your time spent on the game is getting from Point A to Point B without much in the way 
 of plot development. The original game did not have much in way of plot either, but still, it is 
 disappointing considering that other games in the genre have great stories.
  
  The narrative, however, is amazing. Everything in the game is told through the eyes of Gordon Freeman. 
 Once again, you are Gordon Freeman, and events happen around you. It is largely unchanged in execution 
 from the original, but immersion is increased tenfold due the technology bestowed upon Half Life 
 2.
  
  The Source engine is arguably one of the greatest video game engines of all time, let alone of 
 its generation. Even today, it still looks commendable amongst a plethora of titles slapped with 
 "HD" and "Next-Gen" tags onto them. It seems only Valve has cared for facial animation as much 
 as developers should, because for the last four years, very few developers, if at all, have at 
 the very least equalled the facial animation (Mass Effect and Heavenly Sword come to mind) . Another 
 standout feature is the physics engine. Half Life 2 single handedly revolutionized physics in video 
 games, making life-like physics obligatory in all applicable games.
  
  Audio, though not as leap-bounding as the visuals, plays an integral part in the immersion Half 
 Life 2 offers. Crisp, clear full surround is offered in all sorts of new and old sound bytes alike.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Valve has forgotten the very thing Half-Life 2 stands on, and that is game play. 
 A new addition to the game's arsenal are vehicles. Though the only two vehicles are a boat and 
 buggy, they provide an alternative pace to the traditional element. Again, puzzles play an important 
 part in the Half-Life experience, and most of them this time around flex the physics muscle. Some 
 of these puzzles range from ubiquitous and clever, to downright stupid and gimmicky. What's even 
 more disappointing, is that the gunplay is lacklustre compared to its contemporary brethren. Many 
 of the gunplay elements are tied to scripted obstacles in Half-Life 2, so while it may be great 
 fun the first time, multiple play throughs will yield boredom of a high degree. Unlike F. E. A. R, 
 Max Payne, or Halo, it's just not fun shooting people for the hell of it. Perhaps it is due to 
 the surprisingly poor A. I or gunplay mechanics which have severe ties with 1992's Wolfenstein 3D, 
 but whatever the case, we can only hope Valve have the time and money to look into that problem.
 
  
  What it comes down to is this: Half-Life 2 is a must play title if you value the history of games. 
 It is the culmination of the technology of an era, concentrated into one hotspot from which all 
 other titles now look up to. However, peel back the super slick presentation and revolutionary 
 graphics, and Half-Life 2 feels like an old game gone under the knife. Some serious knife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPLICEHOLE
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying that if you love shooters, or have never played a first person shooter and 
 want to try one... This is the best game there is. Be warned, once you start this game, you will 
 not want to put it down until you played all the way through!
  I have played through this game from start to finish several times and I never tire of it. I have 
 played dozens of shooters in the last eleven years, and still none measures up to the intensity 
 of this game.
  It is visually stunning, has an amazing story line and you feel you are in the game, not just playing 
 a game. The voice acting is also very realistic and makes it all feel that much more real. I actually 
 played levels over and over just to take in the incredible eye candy and to here and see things 
 I missed the many times I played it before. 
  I have also never played a game that was so tightly put together and no bugs or glitches were found.
 
  This is the game that all other shooters wish they were. Even today, with the graphics being slightly 
 dated, it is the most impressive FPS on the market. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoAssKicker47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Good:
  Sublime production; excellent script and voice overs bring characters to life masterfully; great 
 physics system makes the experience that much more fun; incredible action; tight scripting keeps 
 the experience smooth; varying gameplay keeps things fresh; final chapters are amazing.
  
  Bad:
  Some of the puzzles just aren't as interesting as those of the original game; some AI quirks; 
 friendly rebel AI is poor; requires that you activate Steam to play the game.
  
  
  When Half-Life was released in 1998, it single-handedly rewrote the book on first-person shooters. 
 Combining an intriguing story with brilliant storytelling and incredible, tactical action, it moved 
 the genre forward from being a sea of thin Quake clones to that of clever games that reward players 
 with information rather than body counts. Six years later, Half-Life 2 is out, and, while it doesn't 
 shake things up as much as its predecessor did, it takes the formula, refines it, and makes everything 
 simply better.
  
  The game starts an unmentioned quantity of time after the conclusion of the first game, where  
 Gordon Freeman is employed by a mysterious, ominous man wearing a purple suit after destroying 
 the Nihilanth, master and enslaver of the aliens from the parallel dimension, Xen. The same ominous 
 purple-suit bafflingly welcomes Gordon back to earth, by encouraging him to "wake up and smell 
 the ashes". Apparently, while Freeman took his snooze, humanity has lost a war to an alien race 
 called the Combine and now populates a number of Combine-controlled, ghetto-like cities across 
 the world. You arrive by train at one of these last resorts, dubbed City 17, and your new journey 
 begins.
  
  Much in the way of its precursor, Half-Life 2 doesn't start you out with a gun, running around 
 and killing turkeys. You get to explore a bit, easing yourself into this new world  and what a 
 world it is! Half-Life 2 features one of the most immersive, believable game worlds to date: everything 
 about it reeks of decay and anguish, and the detail is absolutely mind-boggling, whether it be 
 about the graphics, sound or the events that occur around you. If there's something that the folks 
 over at Valve Software prove once again is that they're the masters of immersion  Half-Life 2 
 is arguably the most immersive first-person shooter so far, and that goes a long way towards making 
 it the instant classic that it is.
  
  In true Half-Life tradition, there are no cutscenes in Half-Life 2. The whole story is told through 
 dialogue between other characters in the game and the events that occur around you. Half-Life 2 
 is highly scripted, and the level of scripting is sky-high. You'll be informed of environmental 
 and other hazards via scripted events and given tips by other human (and not-so-human) characters 
 in the game world. The beauty of it is that you never relinquish control of Freeman, so you're 
 free to look around, play with the physics system or just plain ignore any script that occurs around 
 you, giving you an extra sense of control and immersion.
  
  Speaking of characters, one of the great new touches about Half-Life 2 is that there are new characters 
 that are crucial to the storyline, something that was absent in previous Half-Life games. Most 
 of these characters are survivors of the Black Mesa catastrophe that are now working on utilizing 
 what they've learned and developed over the years against the Combine to help humanity. All of 
 them enjoy awesome dialogue thanks to a great script and amazing work by the different voice-actors 
 that bring them to life.
  
  The game is divided into fourteen different "chapters", each throwing you into a completely new 
 environment to keep things fresh. This might be an obstacle and an immersion breaker if the transitions 
 aren't smooth, but Valve has somehow managed to create many different environments that are seamlessly 
 connected and never feel out of place. One moment you're running through the sewers of the chaotic 
 City 17, the next you're riding a hoverboat in the water tunnels, and another time you're exploring 
 the desolate European beaches of the suburbs.
  
  The really beautiful thing about this is that different environments mean different gameplay. There 
 are two expansive scenes involving a vehicle, there's a chapter that has you running away from 
 pursuing Combine forces and another which challenges you to hold down position against waves of 
 incoming Combine troops. It's all executed very well and there's a real impression that those Seattle 
 guys had done a huge amount of play-testing  there are so many close calls in this game that one 
 little screw up here and there would have ruined everything, but the experience is completely smooth.
 
  
  You sometimes have to solve puzzles, but this time they're less about activating a few systems 
 to allow passage onward as they were in the first game. Now they're all about utilizing the amazing 
 physics system that's in use here. You'll find yourself carrying blocks to put weight on diagonal 
 beams, moving objects around to give way through electrified water or finding your way across an 
 ant-lion infested beach by using wooden boards. They're all pretty creative and fun to solve, yet 
 I missed some of the sense of achievement that was gained from firing a rocket engine over a threesome 
 of tentacle creatures or finally managing to rid the world of that horrible Gargantua by electrifying 
 it to death.
  
  When you're not solving puzzles, you dispatch of varying enemies. The alien front only features 
 the antlions (and their guards  a blast to fight!) , three different types of headcrabs and their 
 respective zombies. There's a fast zombie that howls like a wolf and can be a real frightener in 
 groups, and there's a stiff, burly zombie which throws poisonous headcrabs at you. The new zombies 
 are a welcome addition and add a sense of urgency and fear to a game otherwise devoid of it.
  
  and when you're not fighting headcrabs or zombies, you're fighting the Combine forces. The 
 Combine are an improved version of the marines from the original game, using group tactics, throwing 
 grenades, acting believably and talking through walkie-talkie-type radios that are totally awesome. 
 Sometimes, however, they show some implausible behavior like standing in place while you riddle 
 them with bullets or not running away from an incoming buggy, but most times they're a blast to 
 fight, especially when they come in their elite form utilizing the game's most powerful weapons.
 
  
  Most of the arsenal you'll against them will be familiar to any longtime Half-Life player, including 
 a submachine gun with a grenade launcher attached to it, a rocket launcher with laser-controlled 
 rockets, shotguns, grenades, crossbows etc. One nice thing about the weapons is that every time 
 you're given a new one, you're introduced to a number of situations that encourage you to use it, 
 quickly familiarizing you with your latest toy. All the weapons have been refined, and there aren't 
 any new startling additions, with the exception of the gravity gun. The zero-point field manipulator 
 is quite possibly the most ground-breaking weapon ever in a shooter, all because of its easy function. 
 Press the right mouse button to draw a nearby object towards you, and the left mouse button to 
 propel it forward. Sound simple?
  
  There's a size and weight limit to the ability of the gravity gun, meaning that you can't carry 
 huge boulders around and fling them at enemies like a basketball, but you can push cars around 
 and fling cabinets about, and that's awesome enough. This new baby is introduced to you via a tour 
 through a creepy suburb infested by zombies. You'll learn how to utilize it to your advantage, 
 in battle and outside of it. You can use it to grab otherwise out-of-reach objects and the likes 
 (or to build forts if you're feeling bored) , but it also adds a tactical layer to combat  will 
 you shoot that Combine soldier, or will you rip that radiator off the wall, use it as a shield 
 as you approach and then smash that bastard against a wall? It doesn't stop there  you can smash 
 them with gas tanks and burn them to death, or you can hurl a thrown grenade back at its sender. 
 On every level, the gravity gun is the most versatile, rewarding weapon I've ever seen in a game.
 
  
  On the audio-visual front, Half-Life 2 is simply astonishing. The sound effects are immense  whether 
 it be weapons fire, dialogue or environmental and positional sound effects, everything about Half-Life 
 2's aural experience is incredible. Worthy of particular notice are the voice actors, once again, 
 who do an amazing job of bringing all these distinguishable, likeable characters to life.
  
  And the game looks absolutely fantastic. The shadows aren't as good as the ones in Doom 3 or 
 Far Cry, but they don't need to be  everything else about the game's graphics is just plain better. 
 The special effects, especially those of glitter and shiny surfaces, are excellent, it has the 
 best depiction of water ever and the environments themselves have a sense of scope and realism 
 that's hardly matched by anything else on the market. However, as good as everything looks (and 
 runs  Half-Life 2 is very undemanding) , the biggest draw to the Source engine is its models. First, 
 the facial expressions are stunning. There isn't one single human emotion that these guys don't 
 display, and that comes together with the awesome script to create some of the most believable 
 characters to ever grace a PC screen. On top of that, they're all superbly animated. You haven't 
 seen a jaw-dropping animation before your first fight against a strider in Half-Life 2. It's just 
 that good.
  
  However, there is a place where Half-Life 2 falters. During some of the later scenes in the game, 
 you'll get to fight alongside other human rebels. That's a fine idea on paper, but the execution 
 is poor. Those guys will get themselves killed quickly and crowd hallways, blocking your sight 
 and sometimes having you stuck inside a room or a doorway. They follow commands very well and their 
 path finding is excellent, but you won't be able to shake the fact that their behavior is mostly 
 annoying.
  
  As bad as the rebel AI may be, one area where Half-Life 2 immediately surpasses Half-Life is those 
 last few chapters. Whereas Half-Life had you activating too many machines and traversing ridiculous 
 jumping puzzles, Half-Life 2 throws into the heat of battle for more tactical fighting against 
 fearsome enemies, and the last two chapters well, I don't want to spoil anything, so I won't. 
 Let's just say you'll have a ball finishing this game (and playing it again. And again, and again, 
 and again) .
  
  Half-Life 2 should take the average player between fifteen and eighteen hours to complete, and 
 I would recommend starting on the toughest difficulty level right away, well because the easy and 
 normal difficulty modes are surprisingly easy. Once you're done, you can tackle you friend in Half-Life 
 2: Deathmatch, which is your regular deathmatch/team deathmatch game with a twist  you now have 
 objects lying around and the gravity gun, which shakes things up a bit. It's really fun and good, 
 but it won't have you replacing Unreal Tournament 2004 anytime soon.
  
  What makes Half-Life 2 such an amazing game, above all of its expertly-executed facets, is how 
 they all come together. The graphics and sound that create the believable world, the witty script, 
 the excellent action, the awesome scripting  everything about Half-Life 2 was in development this 
 long to give it polish and dedication, and the final product definitely shows  was it worth the 
 wait? Hall yeah  Half-Life 2 is the finest first-person shooter ever on the PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPGAssault
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played HL2 yet, what the f*ck are you waiting for? Seriously, the people at valve 
 never make a crappy game. You can probably just pick a random valve game off the shelf and you 
 would be satisfied. I really don't know how GTA4 got a 10 but HL2 didn't. Don't get me wrong, I 
 have GTA4 myself, but seriously now, its no where near as ground breaking as HL2. Unless your computer 
 is complete trash, you should be able to run this game. The source engine is very flexible, and 
 even my old geforce 4 could run this.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeWierd20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life. One of the best games ever made. I think we all remember it and don't need any reminder 
 that it was sensational. Well the next game has came, and it's taking Half-Life to the whole next 
 stage while not touching a single quality that made the first Half-Life so amazing.
  
  Story-10/10
  With a new great plot that rolls-over from Half-Life, Half-Life2 brings new twists 
 and turn around ever corner without distracting the player from what their goals are.
  
  In the beginning of the game, you (Gordon Freeman of course) are greeted by the famous G-Man. Remember 
 him from the ending of Half-Life?
  
  After he gives you a speech about your new job, you are transported to City-17, where you and many 
 other "citizens" are being kept from under the thumb of the combine, an alien race that has taken 
 over earth and used it as their own. Also leading the combine is Dr. Brien, who you see in various 
 sections of City-17 talking to the general public. As you move on through the city, you meet one 
 of your former friends from BlackMesa. Good ol' Barney. He's working with the combine "civil protection" 
 under cover, and now that he's found you he tells you to find your way to Dr. Kliener (scientists 
 that worked for Black-Mesa) . Exploring the City and avoiding Civil-Protection, you make it to Dr. Kliener's 
 lab where you are given the HEV suit once again. You are lead there by Alyx, the daughter of Eli, 
 who was also a former Black-Mesa scientist. Rather than keep you there in the lab they decide to 
 teleport you to Eli's lab. Big mistake. The teleporter malfunctions and simply sends you outside 
 of the lab behind some buildings. Barney finds you again, and tells you that you'll just have to 
 find your own way to Eli's by foot.
  
  Being assisted by a net-work of refugees which help you avoid the combine, you make your Eli's 
 lab, where at this point I will stop because I don't want to spoil the rest of the story for you. 
 Sorry it's just all too good.
  
  Gameplay-10/10 Well yeah! It has great shooting action and mind puzzles with multiple solutions 
 to each one depending on how you use your surroundings. There are weapons that are almost the exact 
 same from Half-Life such as the 9mm pistol, the magnum, and the sub-machine gun! And even (*gasp) 
 the trademark trusty crowbar! Yeah! (And it still works great on Head-Crabs to!)
  
  In addition to this collection of weapons you are at some point in the game given famous Gravity-Gun, 
 which can pick up objects at a distance and throw them at enemies. You can pick-up things such 
 as soda cans and boxes, to wardrobes and explosive barrels! You can even pick-up grenades thrown 
 by the combine and throw them back from the direction they came from.
  
  Featuring great qualities that everyone has loved from Half-Life, there's not a part in the game 
 where the camera takes control of the action. You are in complete control 24/7, and the only exceptions 
 are the credits and intro. And introducing new tactics, such as driving in a buggy and airboat.
 
  
  Sound and VoiceActing-9/10
  
  Controlling squads of rebels is almost entertaining from the point you hear all the things they 
 say such as "Hey Gordon Freeman! You're not leaving without me!" and "Get down Freeman!" or even 
 "HEADCRAB!!!".
  
  The voice actors do a very good job on their part, making the scripts even better. Voice actors 
 from Half-Life are even brought back, such as the same voice actor that did some of the scientists 
 voices, and even Barneys voice actor as well.
  
  The sounds are pretty nice, especially to noises that objects and vehicles make as they are scrapped 
 against one another. Gun noises are all different, sound very real, and are well synced with the 
 animations. Other noises just seem to become repeating, but only a little and that's after so many 
 times playing the game over again.
  
  Controls-10/10
  The controls can be customized via a menu, and any action can be preformed by any key you want. 
 Actions you perform put you in great control of the game, since you can even choose which key lets 
 you swim up and down in addition to the "previous weapon" key.
  
  Graphics-10/10
  Graphics have improved tenfold since the last game.
  
  Textures have perfect lighting and respond 
 differently depending on room environment. Characters are extremely detailed and they move their 
 faces in exact sync to what they say. Every pore on Gman's face can even be seen in detail up close, 
 and it's just amazing.
  
  Water reflects everything including wooden floating boxes, close by enemies, and the rest of the 
 world put together.
  
  Shadows aren't TOO great, but they are detailed enough for satisfaction.
  
  Your hands and 
 guns have high polygon counts (as does almost every model) and reflect/react to nearby light sources 
 accurately depending on how close you are to them or where you are standing around them.
  
  Overall-9.8/10
  The game brings back great stuff we all have loved about Half-Life and updates 
 them with an all-new sequel that amazingly isn't a turn down for the series.
  
  Buy it any way you want-if your computer can run the game, then BUY IT. NOW. It is an amazing game 
 that has inspired so many other games. It's won awards that other games can only dream of achieving, 
 and this game has deserved them by far.
  
  Great job Valve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoolAiD129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is a very innovative shooter and introduces many new advances in the FPS genre. The 
 game has many new innovations that make it very different from other games and yet it sticks to 
 the basic formula of the first game at the same time.
  
  Half-life 2 easily lives up to the hype and even more easily surpasses it. Some of the games positives 
 are that it introduces a new engine with great graphics, great characters that look and feel real, 
 a new style of gameplay, an immersive environment and the introduction of a genre changing weapon, 
 the gravity gun.
  
  The graphics are fantastic especially for a 2004 game. The first time you see the city, you'll 
 be blown away and it just keeps getting better especially at the latter parts. The characters of 
 the game look extremely real and you do have feelings for a lot of the characters especially Alyx, 
 the female lead. The voice acting is great as well. The gameplay is great with new innovative physics 
 puzzles and interesting environments to shoot around in. The vehicle parts feel fresh and nice. 
 The introduction of the gravity gun that can lift and drop objects and even enemies during the 
 last couple of levels is probably the best part of the game. Its really fun to use and these kind 
 of weapons are going to be seen very often in future games. IN fact, many shooters already have 
 similar to weapons to this now.
  
  There are negatives for this game as well, albeit few. The game is great and has many puzzles as 
 mentioned before but its not as difficult as the original game. In fact, its much easier. You should 
 be done the game without much trouble except in a few levels. The final few levels, although among 
 the best parts of the game, is made to be easy. Although the game is very easy, there are a few 
 hard locations and most of it overshadowed by the puzzled and innovations used for fighting such 
 as using the gravity gun or perophods. The story doesn't tell us more about the world of half-life 
 nor does it tell us much about the past and what exactly happened at the end of the original Half-life. 
 Some information is revealed in bits and pieces but otherwise nothing much is revealed. The game 
 is also a tad bit too linear combats are a bit similar during the middle sections, for example, 
 you drive r walk for a while and you gotta kill a few soldiers or alines and then you gotta continue 
 and you'll meet more a little while later with similar firefights although most of these easier 
 and repetitive fights are followed by hard, complex areas which require thinking and shooting at 
 the same time!
  
  Overall, Half-life 2 is an amazing FPS with many new inventions that make it a great and fresh 
 experience. If you haven't played the originals Half-life, you would probably not realize the few 
 negatives that are present such as the difficulty. To shooter fans, this a must-buy game and for 
 non-gamers or non-shooter fans, this game is probably gonna change your mine. I also recommend 
 the original Half-life as it is one of my personal favorites along with many millions around the 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wookiesan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all how the hell could the Gamespot reviewers say that it had no story, what are you high. 
 The story is so eminences and the fact that have continued to grow on it has just made it even 
 better. I personally am obsessed and totally believe in the story. My friend bought the game and 
 we where talking over the phone and he could get threw a couple of parts and i told him. He pauses 
 and say how much time do you spend on exploring this game i said i can't remember. This is better 
 than any game ,series of game, trilogy etc. other game out there name it and this will knock it 
 down.
  
  When the game first game out the graphics where the best out there, everyone is like "o look at 
 Crysis" big whoop i hate Crysis, there is no story, sure it has graphics but so did hl2 when it 
 first came out and that's all Crysis had, I started to play Crysis an i stopped and went back to 
 the store and returned it, not worth my money, however hl2 and the episodes that was worth my money. 
 
  
  Halo doesn't even compare to Hl2. I would rather have Gorden Freemen and Dog watching my back any 
 day than Master Chef and his computer chick whats her face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Aiz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  The first time i played half-life 2. I was simply amazed and shocked (in a good way) by every single 
 ting about it. The moment i saw the new face of Gman saying: "Right and Shine... mr freeman". Till 
 the end of the game.
  
  ________________
  GRAPHICS and PERFORMANCE:
  
  The game looks awesome with everything on high. Even though the loading time is a bit longer than 
 the first half-life (1 second no matter how fast your pc was) , the map size is way bigger this 
 time around. So it's pretty forgiven by that fact
  ________________
  
  
  
  ________________
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The first moment every gamer said when they first played half-life 
 2 (or any of it's episodic sequels) is: "WHOOOAA!!! YOU CAN PICK UP THE BRIEFCASE AND THE BOTTLE... AND 
 THE NOOODLECASE!!??!"
  
  Yeah, Half-life 2's gameplay is pretty different than what you see in any other FPS game, because 
 it allows you to use your environment as a weapon. Use a barrel as a shield against enemy firing, 
 throw a saw against a zombie and split it in half and so much else thanks to one of the most (if 
 not the most) innovative weapons ever created the... Gravity gun!
  
  The Enemy A. I is truly stunning as a Zombie will find another way, when realizing it can't get 
 though the door to get you. A gunship that will try shoot away the rockets when you shoot with 
 your rocket launcher. 
  
  ________________
  
  
  
  ________________
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Okay, i know i haven't written about the story and voice acting at all, but to 
 cut short. It's all great. For any FPS fan or Sci-Fi lovers out there, i definitely recommend this 
 game. Even though the episodic sequels have improved the formula with better graphics and levels, 
 it still is fun and just awesome to play.
  
  My rating: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizengamotX
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  "Rise and shine, Mr. Freeman. Rise and shine. Not that I wish to imply you have been sleeping on 
 the job. No-one is more deserving of a rest. And all the effort in the world would have gone to 
 waste until... well, let's just say your hour has come again. The right man in the wrong place 
 can make all the difference in the world. So, wake up, Mr. Freeman. Wake up and smell the ashes." 
 The first words spoken in Half-Life 2 speak no less truth than to the quality of the plot itself. 
 Half-Life 2 is a perfect masterpiece; an unusual specimen amongst a sea of every growing mediocrity. 
 Available for purchase on Valve's award winning Steam network, Half-Life 2 is for sale at a range 
 of prices; from $30 to $100, one may buy Half-Life 2 along with its expansions and every other 
 Source game known to man. If downloading is not your religion, Half-Life 2 is again available in 
 a variety of packages to those who prefer a hard copy on hand for the unlikely yet unfortunately 
 inevitable hard disk failure. Downloaders fear not though, for Steam records your purchases not 
 on your computer but on their online database, regardless of whether you bought a physical copy 
 or downloaded straight off of the network. Gameplay and saved games though must be backed up by 
 the user themselves.
  
  The game works like a science-fiction Medal of Honor, employing the occasional squad mechanic but 
 overall due to the little more than above average intelligence of one's counterparts, his teammates 
 more than likely will die off in a matter of minutes, leaving him again alone. Graphical quality 
 is perfect however, and immerses players at all levels of computer hardware. The Source engine 
 was designed to be compatible with all video cards, running at a smooth frame-rate, and yet visually 
 pleasing at all settings. Physics are a major element in Half-Life 2, and all objects are interactive 
  most are destructible with the right application of force and velocity. For the time released 
 and even when compared with current and last generation games such as Crysis or F. E. A. R., Half-Life 
 2's Havok physics applications are astounding, and revolutionary to say the least. The sound is 
 phenomenal and when paired with a Creative X-Fi chipset, makes sound all the more exciting. Though 
 Source games do not utilize EAX, as the engine does its own effects and special calculations, those 
 with headphones are left something more. If one either does not use headphones or does not own 
 an X-Fi sound card, it is recommended to ignore the following, as each sound chipset varies. Creative 
 X-Fi uses CMSS-3D to down-mixes a multichannel signal and virtualizes it for headphones. For best 
 results, uncheck "sync with control panel", and set your speaker setup to "headphones", as denoted 
 in the Creative Volume Panel. Enable "MacroFX" and "ElevationFilter" under CMSS-3D, setting both 
 to "Auto". Turn off the Equalizer. Set the Crystallizer to taste. Disable EAX effects. In-game, 
 select under Audio, the "5.1 speakers" option; one will notice that with 5.1 enabled, the effects 
 and vocals will be less distorted and muddy. Hollywood quality voice acting and distant orchestral 
 scores that play out of the occasional radio tend to leave lasting impressions and the gamer wanting 
 more.
  
  Lasting a good length of time, and depending on the skill level and difficulty chosen per gamer, 
 Half-Life 2 provides a varied and perfect blend of relaxed sequences, driving elements, and action 
 horror-survival gameplay. The storyline gives information where observed, and the music only plays 
 at the right times, leaving the gamer with a true First-Person No Country for Old Men feeling. 
 Sound, physics, and graphics lend to a fluid experience, and though with the occasional forced 
 loading time, if provided a less than modern computer setup should not be hampering to immersion. 
 Half-Life 2 rests in my book as an unusual classic; the game is a perfect masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drygor7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is the sequel to the 1999 game half life the main character is a gordan freeman a man 
 who finds himself on a train headed towards a place called city 17 but things are much different 
 then gordan remembers it is a new world filled with old friends and new enemies a plot full of 
 conspiracies and twists it is a highly re-playable experience that will leave you hungry for more 
 within the first few hours you are already involved in the full scale of the story and the world 
 of half life 2 is a living breathing master piece and even though with no spoken dialogue gordan 
 is an incredibly intresting character now for the gameplay its feels like a typical fps but its 
 so much more this game makes you use your head to solve the many puzzle that surround you using 
 everything from your weapons to the games physics themselves and the real fun starts when you obtain 
 the famous gravity gun a weapon that lets you pick up place or hurl object at enemies or just to 
 solve a puzzle and there are sections of the game that could even scare the bravest soul the flaws 
 of this game are very minor one it takes a pretty high end graphics card to run without occasional 
 crashes and such two at times there can be a problems with the physics (objects moving erratically 
 and such) but these are easily forgiven and with many mods and expansions available the game never 
 has to end! -Joseph Garcia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Now the original Half Life started what we call "the modern day shooter" and Half Life 2 is just 
 as impressive as it's predecesser. Its a briliant mix of puzzles, story and pure shooting action 
 that no game before had ever come close to and still today is a vry tough act to beat.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Valves "Source" engine is amazing and it's at it's best in Half Life 2, character 
 models have deep and intence emotions that fit perfectly with whatever is happening in the game. 
 The games atmosphere verys from larg and spacious, to close and claustrephobic. Few games even 
 4 years later can match this one and that sayssomthing.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Ive never heard better voiceacting in any other shooter and the only exceptions are RPGs. Half 
 Life 2s story is carried wounderfully by amazing voicework and edgy crisp sound effects.
  
  Value 9/10
  The single player takes around 15 to 20 hours to complete but you will wanna come 
 back a second or even third time, just to experience the majesty of voicework and innventive puzzles.
 
  
  The good
  Best voicework in any shooter bar none, gameplay that surpasses the original, graphics are gorgeous, one 
 of the most memorable games ive ever played.
  
  The bad
  The game leaves you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluanimegirl
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played Half-Life 2 before, you're really missing out. Even after years of playing, 
 it still brings me back again and again for more. Exciting, compelling, innovative - everytime 
 you play you learn something new. It's hugely popular for many reasons; Fantastic gameplay, characters, 
 storyline, graphics, atmospheric sounds, unique weapons, environments - I could go on forever. 
 Even if you're more into the multiplayer, Valve keeps everything interesting and exciting with 
 new content, and hundreds of multiplayer mods. Enjoy discovering gorgeously real people and places, 
 interwoven with trilling action and a mysterious plot that effortlessly pulls you along for the 
 ride. Once you start playing you won't want to stop. And that's good for you - there's hundreds, 
 if not thousands of hours of gamesplay. I'll keep playing HL2, along with it's predecessors Episodes 
 One and Two, and The Orange Box for as long as I can. If you haven't played them all, you're just 
 wasting time sitting there when it could be spent enjoying all the games in this award-winning 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is an all time classic. here is why.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay of Half-Life 2 is splendid. It takes everything that a good game needs and throws 
 it into one amazing cluster. Half-Life 2 is a FPS but it also combines puzzle, and role playing 
 elements into the mix. The Shooting mechanics are smooth and fantastic and the controls work smoothly 
 without any annoying issues. The guns and weapons on HL2 are unnique and fun. Besides having your 
 crowbar you also get to wield an awsome gravity gun that allows you to pick up objects such as 
 Blades and launch them at enemy characters. Now despite the fast paced shooting you will also come 
 across many puzzles which slow down the action and makes you think. Most aren't too hard but some 
 will challenge younger minds to the extreme. In the end you will figure them out. This is a great 
 addition to the gameplay because it allows you to slow down the action and keep your characters 
 involved. Another cool thing about Half Life 2 is the ability to drive the Airboat and the buggy. 
 The Airboat/Buggy are a little confusing to drive at first due to the sensitivity of the controls 
 but after a little driving you will get used to both vehicles. Half Life 2 epitomizes what great 
 gameplay
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Story/Characters-
  Half-Life 2 begins with Gordan Freeman waking up on a train in the fictional City 17. The story 
 mainly revolves around Gordans quest to destroy the combine controlled, "City 17". The main agressors 
 throughout the game are an alien Species called the Combine. The Combine soldiers are cyborg supersoldiers 
 whos main goal is too crush any form of resistance too them and too establish their universal empire. 
 They are like a Galctic Soviet Union if you will. Gordan freeman is a scientist who along with 
 other members of "The Resistance" tries to destroy the Combine facility called "The Citdel". There 
 are many inconsistancies in my synopsis due to the fact i dont want to give out any spoilers. Your 
 partner and closest allie is a young women named Alyx Vance, Along with her big Robot named "D0g". 
 Throughout the story you will feel connected with all the characters in the game.
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Graphics/Sound-
  Even though this game was released 4 years ago, the graphics 
 and sound are amazingly top notch. The environments are amazingly detailed, Creepy, and Beautiful. 
 The environments add to the Dystopian theme of HL2 and the Characters give HL2 a sense of hope. 
 The character models are amazing. They look, Act, and Sound real. They move real and the behave 
 like real people. The sound in half life 2 is astounding as well. The guns sound powerfull and 
 the dialogue of the Characters is as authentic as it gets. The music throughout the game adds anticipation 
 and the Enemy dialogue and sound puts fear in your heart during crucial moments. There is nothing 
 more exciting than hearing the drone of a Combine Chopper approachine.
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Replayability/Multiplayer-
  Half Life 2 is a game that you will want to come back to again and 
 again. I have had this game for 4 years. And I have played it at least 20 times through. There 
 is no Multiplayer but If you download Half-Life 2 Deathmatch from steam you will have even more 
 fun fragging people online
  Overall: 9.5/10
  
  Overall Game-
  Half Life 2 is amazing in every sense of the word. I reccomend this game to anyone who has a love 
 for Sci-Fi and an excellent gaming experience. One of the best game of all time in my opinion
 
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk4328
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  If you want a game that is stunning and might just scare the crap out of you every now and then 
 this game will be for you. If you want to get scared freaked out also maybe even cry a little bit. 
 Then this game is for you. The graphics of this game a phenomenal even by today's standards so 
 pick yourself up a copy of this game. I've been playing it since it game out so that means years. 
 Trust me you wont be disappointed. Do yourself a favor trust me and shell out then money and get 
 it. Plus i love the game and you will too. The bad stuff about this game is that in some parts 
 its ridiculously to easy and in others its extremely hard. Also its not very balanced. But truth 
 be told one of the most amazing games still to this day. I give my seal of approval. So what are 
 you doing get out there and give them a little bit of your pistol shooting crowbar smashing playing 
 time on one of the best games ever Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkMario2500
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This review is a bit late for the hype of the game's original release, yes, but I felt it necessary 
 to come back and review this.
  
  Half-Life 2 does absolutely everything right. The graphics are incredible, and look even better 
 in the newer installments of the saga. The faceposing is about as realistic as you'll get in this 
 genre, or any other, and VALVe pulls another great stunt by giving us access to ALL of their tools 
 they used to make the game, to mount and make our own games using their engine.
  
  Half-Life 2 is by all means NOT an action shooter in any way, it's essentially a graphic novel 
 that is told to you through the perspective of our ever so silent protagonist, Gordon Freeman. 
 So, to all you Halo fanboys who lack the patience to play through a story before getting into the 
 action, don't buy this game.
  
  The sound effects, graphics, sound track, modeling, the attention to detail is incredible, this 
 game was made by a devoted group of individuals.
  
  The gameplay is great, and can be tailored to your prowess in the FPS genre by selecting an easier, 
 or harder difficulty at ANY time. The physics engine is wonderful, and giving us the Gravity Gun 
 in such an obvious way of promoting this legendary achievement in Video Game Physics was even moreso.
 
  
  The storyline, yes, the storyline, this is the gem that this game has to offer most of all. While 
 we're at it, you don't -need- to have played Half-Life to understand Half-Life 2's storyline, though, 
 Half-Life is a gem of its own, and you will enjoy it if you liked this as much as I did.
  
  The storyline puts you in the shoes of Gordon Freeman, awakening from a long sleep in statsis for 
 10 years since the events of Half-Life, his appearance not changing at all. You are awoken by a 
 man in a suit, whom the community has dubbed "G-man". You're placed on a train, and you arrive 
 in a place called City 17. The world, is now under control of a race of alien beings known as the 
 Combine, having probed and taken humans to use as their tools to police the city, and the essential 
 "head" of the city was one of your colleagues at Black Mesa from Half-Life, Dr. Breen.
  
  The storlyine does more to immerse you as you discover, Gordon Freeman does -not- say a -single- 
 word throughout the course of the whole. Entire. Game. Done so to make it feel as if you're in 
 his shoes, though you'll have certain characters you encounter along the way who will wise-crack 
 at your silent persona.
  
  Half-Life 2 is what a video game should be, it does everything it promised and more, it should 
 NOT be missed by any gamer out there, console gamer, or PC gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxxter
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic beginning though! It's great with the train and City 17 is awesome, with Breen speaking 
 on the big screens and people comment you and such things, that's great. Though after the presentation, 
 I really think it gets boring. It's a clever game, has a lot of details which are non-linear to 
 other games. But it's boring. It feels boring to play, and drive some vehicles, shoot some Combine 
 pigs. It's not fun? I don't know why, maybe I'm just the guy who needs to get himself a different 
 game. 
  
  I just don't get the feeling like other people apparently do. I don't find it to be especially 
 "amazing" nor "impressive". It just has a few cool gimmicks. That's what I would call it. I just 
 think the environments, the game-play itself and the shooting is.. Well, un-fun. You run too much, 
 there is too little happening, there is no feeling of being in a different world, and there is 
 not enough action. It lacks surprises, living environments, more excitement. 
  
  But it needs to get a little credit for the physics, and the gravity gun is also a great toy.. 
 For a while. 
  
  Sorry, if you do not agree, but I just wanted to state my opinion, so that other people who's considering 
 buying this game, could see something that's from a different perspective. I'm more of a tactical-shooter 
 guy, I guess :)
  
  Anyway, I don't find this game to be anything special. 
  /Out!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  "Rise and shine, Mr. Freeman, rise and shine. Not that I wish to imply that you've been sleeping 
 on the job. No one is more deserving of a rest and all the effort in the world would have gone 
 to waste, until, well, let's just say your hour has come again. The right man in the right place 
 can make all the difference in the world. So wake up, Mr. Freeman. Wake up, and smell the ashes."
 
  
  The ashes are right in front of you, sweeping around the train that you ride upon. You don't know 
 why you are there, or what this place is, but as your eyes open, you see the world for the second 
 time.
  
  The firstwell, that was a long time ago.
  
  The train stops at its destination, a flash in your face as you exit. An odd looking robot flies 
 around, taking pictures of everyone. And a gigantic monitor of a man speaking shines across the 
 train station.
  
  "Welcome, welcome to City 17. You have chosen, or been chosen, to relocate to one of our finest 
 remaining urban centers. I thought so much of City 17 that I elected to establish my administration 
 here, in the citadel so thoughtfully provided by our benefactors. I have been proud to call City 
 17 my home. So whether you are here to stay, or passing through on your way to parts unknown, welcome 
 to City 17; it's safer here."
  
  While there is something to be said about non-linearity, when a game creates such a tight, fast 
 paced roller-coaster ride like Half-Life 2, it's hard to say no. The meld between gameplay and 
 story is so deep, in fact, that it's hard to see where parts of the game end and others begin. 
 
  
  Half-Life as a series is unique because it immerses you as well as any game has ever done. Immersion 
 is such an overused term as of now, but it really holds true here: for twelve hours, you are Gordon 
 Freeman, the man who saved Black Mesa Research Facility from alien and military invasion in the 
 first Half-Life. The game never leaves your first person perspective, making the game more cinematic, 
 more interesting, and more powerful than any other game, first person or not, can attest.
  
  City 17 is the Orwellian backdrop's very definition, existing in a world full of the oppressive 
 Combine aliens and their corrupt human allies that rule over the rest of the race without mercy. 
 Cameras take pictures everywhere, people are pushed around by police on a regular basis, and military 
 operations run in the streets for full civilian observation. The atmosphere is so thick you could 
 cut it with a knife, because the despair can be felt through every pore of the game. Every area 
 that Valve has created contains small details that only the second and third play-through can reveal, 
 but those things come together to make such a world that simply has not been matched by any media 
 format.
  
  The gun-play feels even more interesting because of this, with advanced AI features and talented 
 scripting abilities to move things along. Unlike Halo, the battles never drag on beyond their allotted 
 time, and Half-Life is a series expert at knowing when a gamer needs to move on. The pacing of 
 this game gives the player a way to cool off after the hard, intense battles, but never gets too 
 talkative for its own good. The transition between these two extremes is never abrupt and always 
 feels natural, as it would in a good novel.
  
  Through your eyes of Gordon, you will see some of the very best in digital animation, creating 
 a play that will lead you along a very long and crazy path filled with drama and violence. Much 
 like a ride at Disney World, this linear path is littered with things to see and interact with, 
 but it all moves so fast that the whole ensemble adds up to one heck of a ride. The writing is 
 superb, the voice acting is phenomenal, and the story delivers like a good movie would, only with 
 your interaction involved. At the end of it all, it feels like you're an actor in a play who doesn't 
 have any lines, which is about as well as you could ever tell a story in this new digital age.
 
  
  Half-Life 2 is not a game-movie, it is much more. It is a world. It is a glimpse of City 17 and 
 its surroundings, living inside of that twenty dollar DVD you just bought. It is one of the most 
 potent experiences I have ever gone through, and it has changed the way I look at video games.
 
  
  "Time? Dr. Freeman? Is it really that time again? It seems as if you only just arrived. You have 
 done a great deal in a small time-span. You have done so well that I have received some interesting 
 offers for your services. Ordinarily I would not contemplate them, but these are extraordinary 
 times. Rather than offer you the illusion of free choice, I will take the liberty of choosing for 
 you. If and when the time comes again."
  
  You thought that was the end? No. Not nearly.
  
  "We'll see about this."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGraveX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I think it's safe to say that everyone who is a fan of FIrst-Person Shooters should own this game. 
 Its great use of physics creates an interactive experience for gamers that sets it apart from other 
 games of its kind. You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist who attempts to stop the world from 
 an alien invasion. I've never played the original Half Life, but I think it's safe to say that 
 the story in HL2 is very difficult to follow, and anyone who is not willing to observe every single 
 detail they had missed will probably not understand it. This being said, the story in Half Life 
 2 can be very lackluster, which does drag the thrill of the game down a bit. Nevertheless, the 
 enjoyable experience it makes for gamers more than makes up for its flaws.
  
  As stated before, the physics that Half Life 2 has to offer will show gamers a new experience that 
 they haven't had in many other games before: environmental interactivity. For example, when I hit 
 a wooden shelf with a crowbar, I want it to break. Half Life 2 demonstrates just that. In fact, 
 one of its most important weapons, the Gravity Gun, focuses solely on this factor of the game, 
 and it will be useful for many things you come across. While you aren't busy engaging in an intense 
 battle of non-stop action, you will often find many mind-challenging situations you run across. 
 Some of these may be as simple as moving cement blocks off an object, while others may take some 
 time to figure out. There are many of these puzzles that are more obvious than others, but they 
 create an inviting experience that you probably haven't had with any game other than the Half Life 
 series.
  
  Like many other shooting games, you won't always be on foot shooting up enemies. In a point of 
 the campaign (one that you will reach rather quickly) , you have the opportunity to travel in a 
 boat. This will be very useful and is necessary by all means for you to make it any further in 
 the game. Due to the game's open environment, it makes traveling in vehicles more fun than you 
 could ever imagine would be possible in a video game. This is a good thing, because you will be 
 traveling in this boat for quite a while if you decide to take advantage of the area you are around. 
 You can travel to areas that you don't need to, but the areas you do decide to opt-in on usually 
 give you somewhat of a rewarding compromise. This makes the game even more enjoyable to explore, 
 and makes the game feel much less linear. There are many more twists and turns you will encounter 
 in Half Life 2. For example, there are bugs that will appear from sand in one point in the game 
 that attack you, and so many will appear that it will make death almost inevitable if you don't 
 comply to what are you instructed to do. However, you eventually get "Bug Bait" in the game, that 
 will attract the bugs to you, and they will fight enemies for you, which definitely helps in certain 
 situations of the game. Another example is a Gravity Gun and suit upgrade you get towards the end 
 of the game, which is very useful, considering you lose nearly all your weapons towards that point. 
 With the Gravity Gun upgrade, you can move all the objects you could previously move before, along 
 with heavier ones that you could not. In addition to this, you can pick up enemies and incinerate 
 them simply by left clicking.
  
  There will also be other instances in your adventure through Half Life 2 that require lots of teamwork. 
 And while your enemy AI is for the most part good, your team AI is what struggles you to get through 
 a mission as quickly as you should be able to. You will often find your teammates in the way of 
 where you are trying to go, which can be annoying, especially in a situation where you have to 
 move quickly, as to get away from a grenade or anything of the sort. However, this doesn't mean 
 that your teammates will be useless, by any means, as there are many parts of the game where you 
 will have so many enemies rushing towards you that it is absolutely necessary to have some help.
 
  
  If you are a big fan of graphics, then you will find Half Life 2 an absolutely remarkable game. 
 Though it was made a while ago and is beginning to show it's age, it still looks stunning. You 
 will often find yourself in amazement by the incredibly detailed environments and character models. 
 For it's time, this was probably the best looking game out there, and it remained that way for 
 a while. Not only this, but it sounds great as well, as music will usually present itself at the 
 right moment, and explosions and gunshots usually sound great as well. Even though there are better 
 looking games now, that doesn't mean this game still doesn't look amazing. However, the graphical 
 intensity that the game has does present consequences to some. While you will most likely get a 
 great framerate on most computers that have half-way decent video cards, loading times can be rather 
 bothersome. The game itself doesn't take too long to load, but there are rather frequent areas 
 in the game that have to load separately. With a high-end PC with the right amount of memory, this 
 should not take more than a few seconds. Still, it does detract from the gameplay somewhat. Another 
 thing to note about Half Life 2, is that it's not the most challenging game I have ever played. 
 However, you will still run into some very difficult situations. Like I stated before, you will 
 have to use a lot of thinking in certain areas of the game, in order to find out how you get to 
 a certain place. The campaign took me roughly 21 hours, then again, it took me an awful long while 
 to figure out what to do at certain areas. For most players, it should take between 14 and 20 hours. 
 If you enjoyed the campaign as much as I did, you will probably find yourself playing it a second 
 time, though on a different difficulty level to make the game more challenging, or you will at 
 least replay certain chapters of the game. And when you feel you are truly done with playing the 
 campaign, the Deathmatch game that's bundled with it has multi-player that can be entertaining.
 
  
  While HL2: Deathmatch isn't nearly as enjoyable as Counter Strike: Source, it still presents itself 
 well. The deathmatch mode is rather mindless, you simply choose a server and try to kill as many 
 people as possible. The only other mode available for online play is Team Deathmatch, which is 
 basically the same thing, but is not as mindless due to the fact that you are working cooperatively 
 with certain people to kill the other team. Fun as it may be, especially considering weapons such 
 as the Gravity Gun, it does get repetitive after a while, which is where the vast amount of mods 
 come in. There is an amazing variety of user-created modifications to choose from, which will make 
 you realize just how long Half Life 2 will last you, and you undoubtedly will be trying out the 
 different mods for a long while.
  
  If you are a fan of FPS games, or even only a casual FPS player, Half Life 2 is a game that will 
 offer an incredible experience that will be well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomdragon200
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 much like Half Life one were both under hyped games (at least from my perspective) 
 if you have not played Halflife 2 then i recommend playing the first, HL2 mainly starts in a sci-fi 
 pictured Earth. I't has been taken over by the Combine a thought Galaxy wide/demension wide Empire, 
 You play as the good ole Gordon Freeman and help try to start a resistence with our old friend 
 The G-man following you. Half life is a fantastic game the story of it blew my mind, unlike most 
 shooters (take the CoD series for instance) where you just simply do missions and shoot and kill 
 this game has a great storyline and in the beginning when it seems like you just have to start 
 up a simple resistence it turns into something much more. It's graphic's are great for the time 
 when it came out, and we see many reappearances ranging from characters to enemies from the original 
 Half Life. On the down side the gameplay is a little easy and there is not a wide range of weapons. 
 All in all I think that this game was revolutionary to the shooters at the time it gave meaning 
 and storyline to just plain objective and complete. It was a little easy and you dont get a lot 
 of weapons at the beginning but i think that Half life 2 (along with Half Life and Half Life 2 
 the Orange Box) is a fantastic find and worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Life_man
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Well, this game's been out for four years now, but my username is Half-Life_man, it would be strange 
 if I did not review this game. 
  Well, strange introduction aside, you should go buy this game. If your computer sucks go buy it 
 for the Xbox or get the Orange Box for the 360 and I think it's on the PS3, too. 
  Well, I should actually review this. Basically this game follows an unknown number of years after 
 the first, some aliens came, bad stuff started going down, you find yourself on a train going "WTF 
 is this?" and then the cops come after you so you have to start killing things. 
  The good stuff: Great graphics, of course by now the graphics are getting passed up, but they are 
 still very realistic and great, the sound is great, it's scary, funny, intense, suspenseful, anything 
 you can imagine. There's a wide variety of enemies, an interesting story if you pay attention, 
 realistic enviornments, good characters, and good first-person feel to it. For the whole fifteen-twenty 
 hours you play this you never leave the first person, people look at you and talk to you, you drive 
 a car and operate turrets in first person, it's pretty cool.
  The bad stuff: It's kind of laggy sometimes and there's like 30 load screens. Also the ending is 
 a little weak, but with two new episodes released who cares, go buy them after you buy this okay, 
 thanks for reading God bless, goodnight, don't do drugs, stay in school, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agamepro2U
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2, wow. You wouldnt think a game company could make a sequel just as freakin awesome 
 as its predecessor. But really, Half Life 2 is some thing amazing. Its new graphic engine is fantastic, 
 and stands up to todays PC games ( though not quite Crysis) . Level design is great because your 
 never in the same place twice, save City 17. Rag doll effects of enemies makes killing them more 
 funny because if you pop a cap in their head they'll topple over in some weird way. Weapons are 
 awesome, though sound weaker than they really are. Action is more present in this game then enemies, 
 and theres alot of them.
  OK, now for the bad. Difficulty is not hard, unless you put it on hard, but the hard is more of 
 a normal than some mind blowing difficulty. Weapon ammo is often least plentiful when you need 
 it most, so if your stuck in a place and start using all your ammo, you'll quickly find yourself 
 with 12 enemies and your crowbar. Enemies are sorta weak, and through the whole game most of them 
 could be killed with a pistol, or even a crowbar if you feel like it. Now that I think about it, 
 you can run through lots of parts without engaging any enemies. 
  
  So really, the Good: great graphics, great weapons, action, great Game!
  Bad: difficulty, ammo-level 
 placement
  
  so really, if you can handle a fantastic looking game with intense action, and look over some very, 
 very small blemishes in the game, it will be a great game even if your not an FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  We all have had dreams when it comes to gaming. We always wished what if a game was like this or 
 like that. The most common of dreams is that of a game which is a COMPLETE All rounder. Great Graphics, 
 Great Gameplay, Great Replay Value.
  
  Well, gamers your dreams get full filed when you play this game HALF LIFE 2. Half Life 1, its predecessor 
 became a huge hit and spawned one of the GREATEST infact THE GREATEST multiplayer game of ALL TIME 
 - Counter Strike - Condition Zero and subsequently 1.5, 1.6.
  
  Half Life 2 is even BETTER. The only thing that i did not like in this game was the simplicity 
 and the aiming which was so much better and so much more fun in HALF LIFE. So i thought this game 
 would suck.
  
  However i was wrong, the STORY and the GAMEPLAY took me by storm. The GUNS are even better and 
 are so SOPHISTICATED that it will make a Call Of Duty Fan go green with jealousy.
  
  The GRAPHICS of this game is extremely unbelievable and for a 2004 game it looks like a 2008 game. 
 MIND YOU, you must have a POWERFUL PC to actually realize its graphics. This game can even DEFEAT 
 the likes of Crysis and Call Of Duty 4.
  
  Gordon Freeman, the main hero of this game is the same but with better textures. He is still MUTE 
 (cannot speak) . But there is a hot Chic ALYX who accompanies us and helps us. She is the daughter 
 of a scientist and very intelligent and she is sexy with her guns and has a great AIM.
  
  So how different is this game from half life 1?? Well the graphics are WAY WAY Superior. The story 
 is similiar i. e. stop the aliens from destryoing the world. But the story is better. You have better 
 enemies and the previous good ones from HL1 are also retained like Barnacle. 
  
  The levels are UNBELIEVABLE. In one level you have to drive a motor boat which also has a gun. 
 In another level you drive a mountain car. WOW!! There is also a scary level which the RESIDENT 
 EVIL fans are sure to love.
  
  Overall, this game is a MUST to be played by every gamer whether he likes FPS or NOT. Only a LOSER 
 would not play this game. Though its EXPANSION Counter Strike Source appears somewhat BLEAK in 
 front of the Legendary Counter Strike Condition Zero,
  
  I can safely say,
  
  HALF LIFE 2 is simply "THE GREATEST FPS GAME EVER". It is also one of the greatest games EVER MADE 
 in any GENRE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldroll5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  When I first started it up, I was amazed by the graphics, the game play and the, great story the 
 game had. Best of all the game had no cut scenes every thing happens while your playing which adds 
 realism to the game, the computer ai was also very amazing they acted like they were alive and 
 actually in the game. The scripting in this game was also very good, another plus side to this 
 game is that there is almost no glitches. The voice acting in this game was also great the best 
 thing about this game is the game play and the graphics, my favorite part of the game was ravenholm. 
 A zombie infested town you visit to get to another part of city 17, it was scary as well as fun, 
 and had different types of zombies in it. I also enjoyed the air boat part of the it was bit challenging 
 but shooting down the helicopter in the end was well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneakyman66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Half life 2. the sequel to what is often called the best game of all time, Half Life. But does 
 this modern day attempt do its ancestor proud? You bet.
  
  The story starts off with you as the protagonist from the first game, Gordon Freeman, a theoretical 
 physicist with a knack for kicking alien ass and causing resonance cascades, on a train into City 
 17, one of the last cities on earth and under the control of the evil alien Combine. The game is 
 set an indeterminate amount of time after Half Life, with Gordon set the seemingly impossible task 
 of uprooting the Combine's hold on humanity, an alien race who were helped to take over by the 
 ex-administrator of Black Mesa, Dr Wallace Breen. The cites have fallen into disrepair, with their 
 inhabitants in a concentration camp-like life, with regular beatings from Civil Protection officers 
 and constant raids on their homes. Gordon then begins an adventure which will take him across, 
 zombie-strewn towns, war torn urban environments and a stunningly fun airboat section.
  
  I suppose I should start by telling you about the graphics. In 2004 when this was released the 
 textures, settings and realistic faces were state-of-the-art, and they don't look too shabby even 
 now. The water effects in the airboat section look like real water and the explosions were like 
 nothing else at the time. Also, the source physics engine is amazing, with bodies crumpling against 
 walls and boxes and glass shattering as machinegun-fire tears through them. Valve obviously wanted 
 to use this to the fullest advantage as they added a weapon called the zero-point gravity gun, 
 or gravgun, which allows you to pick up objects and throw them, as well as solving some fiendishly 
 tricky puzzles. The characters are the next best thing, with believable storylines and excellent 
 voice acting, and Valve's faceposing technology allows them to lypsync the speech perfectly.
  
  So far Valve's tour de force that is Half Life 2 has been amazing, but are there any problems 
 with this seemingly perfect game? Well, yes. The enemies are just a little easy to defeat and the 
 jeep section is a little lacking compared to the excellent airboat level which has superior handling, 
 better level design and huge jumps. Otherwise, this game is a perfect follow-up to one of the greatest 
 PC games of all time, and more than does its lineage justice. Jacob Gorf
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashblade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I first got this game from my friend, who got a second copy with the Orange Box. I didn't really 
 feel like playing it, seeing as how I was more of a multiplayer person. But, when I started one 
 fateful, boring day, I was hooked.
  
  The first thing that struck me - the graphics. Valve's Source engine blew me away. Now, my PC has 
 a horrible graphics card, so I had to run the game on the lowest settings. But, even so, the world 
 was still stunning. Source's physics capabilites also encited me into spending quite a bit of time 
 picking up cans and chucking them at the Combine.
  
  Another thing that really got me hooked was the storyline. There are quite a few multiplayer FPS' 
 out there that don't really care about the storyline, like Quake. But, playing HL2 really got me 
 to remembering just how powerful a storyline can be. This story was expressed not in cut-scenes, 
 but in a seamless world of scripted sequences. I was amazed when Barney's face followed me. Sheer 
 awesomeness.
  
  However, my favorite part must have been the action. Sure, the puzzles were fun, but I found slicing 
 hordes of zombie's heads off with a giant razor blade propelled at high speeds by a gravity gun 
 much more attractive. I loved the guns. I loved the things you shot with guns. I loved the amunition 
 shot by the guns. Just amazing.
  
  The only flaw I saw was you allies' AI. They weren't much of a help in fighting other than cannon 
 fodder, and indoors all they did was get in the way. Also, I found it's replayabllity to be... 
 unsatisfactory. Valve making you have to pay for multiplayer was hard on me. Other than that, the 
 game was hours of fun.
  
  Good work, Valve! You really revived the single player FPS genre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is a true model of what an FPS should be. It combines great story, innovative gameplay, 
 squad systems, unique weapons and enemies, but does it all while having wonderful visuals and an 
 outstanding physics engine. Half-Life 2 was my first PC game, and I am glad it was. The most outstanding 
 features of this game include the range of enemies, the suspense and pace of the story, and of 
 course, the Gravity Gun. Playing through Half-Life 2, the first thing i noticed was how detailed 
 the textures were, and how cool it was to feel like a captive of Earth while it's controlled by 
 the Combine forces. then as i escape and meet Alyx, it just goes up and up in terms of value and 
 fun. In addition to the shooting parts, there are also puzzles you must figure out to advance in 
 the game, and the spacing of the shooting and puzzles and sometimes a combination of the two is 
 spot on. the only complaint i have is that the ending is slightly easy to complete, and it leaves 
 you hanging with a humongous cliffhanger until you buy episodes 1 and 2, which i know you will 
 if you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian551
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a definite 100% worthy successor to Half-Life. I've seen reviews saying that it 
 has nothing to do with the first game. However, it just does! Half-Life 2 is a must own game but 
 do not believe the minimum system requirements. You will need at least 512mb of RAM to got the 
 most out of this game. Anything lower and you will suffer from lots of pauses and looping sounds 
 whenever you see fire or water.
  
  Half-Life 2 uses the Source engine which is slighty out of date and has some bugs. However, the 
 games engine creates a mindblowingly good experience and amazing graphics that are still good in 
 2008.
  
  After you have finished the game you will keep playing it over again as its just too good. There 
 is also the games Deathmatch to play which is always a laugh even if you're new to playing it. 
 The Muliplayer game features Deathmatch and Teamdeath match and with over 300 servers, there is 
 alot of choice.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benx009
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I didn't get around to this game until like two years after it was originally released, but boy 
 the moment I started it, I was hooked. It was amongst the first games I tested with my Geforce 
 6200 (which actually ran this game fairly well at med settings) and I was absolutely stunned by 
 how this game looked (hey, coming from games like starcraft and runescape, you can't blame me) . 
 It was love at first sight when it came to the Source Engine, though the story of this game was 
 pretty mesmerizing as well. It's amazing how immersive the world of HL2 can be at some instances. 
 Sometimes when I play it, I almost forget that I'm still living in the real world, that's how immersive 
 this game can be. Everything of this game was done well, and the ending has got to be one of the 
 most beautiful, though rather bizarre, exemplars of how the conclusion of a game ought to be done. 
 Admittedly, there were a few bugs with the Source Engine that took away some of the luster away 
 from this game, but even still, this game is still the definition of perfection. It's sad that 
 many FPSs today still can't live up to the greatness of this game.
  
  Anyways, I guess this wasn't so much of an official review as it is just my honest opinions of 
 the game. Chances are that if you are reading this, you've probably already played the game yourself, 
 so you know how awesome it is. If you haven't, then do yourself a favor and GO GET IT NOW (either 
 the standalone game or the Orange Box) . Trust me, you will not regret it one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilJohnnyboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  No doubt this game is quite a unique piece of work. It has puzzles and lots of running and gunning. 
 But this game is not great I'm annoyed about people crying this is the best game ever. This game 
 is good but bot great the running and gunning gets annoying and repatative. And some of the level 
 designs are quite poor.
  
  To start off about the levels, What I hate is when you have to go through the sewers that was a 
 total let down. And the vehicle parts they were the worst part about the game at least in half-life 
 2 ep 2 they were shorter but more fun. Valve had to see if the vehicle parts would work, but they 
 didn't they just were to long and boring. Ravenholm was very boring at first it really set the 
 mood and an erie feeling. At the start is is arggh a zombie shoot it shoot it.
  Then it is oh man not another zombie . But it is after Ravenholm that this game gets really good, 
 driving through antlions is a whole heap of fun.
  
  The graphics are very beautiful to look at even for todays standards, but you will be running and 
 gunning through the whole game there is very little time to appreiciate them.
  
  The physics in this game a very realistic. A lot of the time in the game the puzzles require you 
 to use the games physics engine to bypass it and get through to the next part.
  
  Overall what makes this game great is the mods. That is why I gave it a very high rating. Garry's 
 mod is a must get if you have Half-Life 2
  you may just get GMOD 9 or buy GMOD 10 for $9.95 Australian dollars.
  There are plenty total 
 conversion mods that are online and make this game very enjoyable. This is a must get for most 
 people but for others if your not so sure rent it first. It is best on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeponjammin08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  This game gave me a few adrenaline soaked moments. The air boat and buggy chapters put a smile 
 on my face the whole time I was playing them. Going from hating the damned antlions to falling 
 in love with watching them do my bidding was great! The "We Don't Go to Ravenholme" chapter was 
 on par with any horror game and gave me a few jumps. And getting the super gravity gun was pretty 
 sweet as well. I bought this with the Orange Box and the only reason I can't give it a ten is because 
 I had 14.5 hours racked up in it, 2-3 of which were spent trouble shooting... Not all Valves fault 
 I'm sure. My system is a little old but I can max out the graphics so I'm not sure what the deal 
 is. Had alot of blue screens saying something about referenced memory at so and so was not found 
 and paged pool memory errors. Sigh. Worth the time trouble shooting though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Half LIfe 2 is worthy of it's name. It stands up to it's predecessor and does feel like the original 
 game. It has many improvements over the original game but it isn't as revolutianary as it's predecessor. It 
 is a great game which deserves all the hype around it.
  To start of the story is very solid and you feel the same freedom as you felt in the original game. The 
 original Half Life is still considered to be one of the best games of all time. Half Life 2 isn't 
 that far but it lives up to it's name.
  Even if you may still find it odd that Gordon still doesn't talk throughout the whole game but 
 even without his voice the voice acting in the game is very solid and the character animation and 
 the expressions on the characters faces is quite astonishing.
  The gameplay remains sort of the same. All the Half Life fans will feel very familiar to the controls 
 even if they are a little different, but not much.
  The graphics look good for the year 2004, even if they are not the most amazing but they do seem 
 to fit the game. Everything looks as you expected from a second Half Life.
  This game is a must have for all who played the original game. For the rest it's a pretty good game 
 and you will get about 15 hours out of it, maybe even more.
  
  My Score 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodledum
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, half life 2 is one of the best games EVER it shares both intense 
  action, puzzles, and a whole bunch of other amaing stuff.
  
  Any fps fan should get this because 
 well blanced of everything an fps needs....
  Except the main character doesn talk. and thats pretty bad, but thats 
  the only bad thing about 
 it.
  
  Half Life 2 might be a bit confusing at times when you dont know where forward is.
  But dont 
 give up because there is fun awaiting you where-ever 
  forward is.
  
  I have played halflife 2 and i always got stuck on atleast 5 parts.
  But any way ill lay it out 
 simple for you below.
  
  (STORY)
  You take on a role as gordon free man who in HL1 creates a disaster with a portal, and sets out 
 a whole bunch of aliens you have to kill.
  And then you have to learn how to use weapons and you 
  end up killing a big boss and you finish 
 the game and on HL2 youre 
  on a train to be relocated? Well,
  the story is hard to explain... I think you need to play it to understand... sorry.
  
  (GRAPHICS)
 
  The graphics in the game are superb. It all matches with the unique source
  engine and the realistic gravity in the game. All in all the graphics were the best ever 
  when 
 it was made.
  
  (SOUND)
  The sound is super-good, and realistic to every surface,
  (Even water!) Metal make a clank glass makes a clink dirt makes a pofft sound.
  When an explosion 
 goes off nearby you hear a ringing sound in your ear, it
  truly is amazing
  it really is amazing. compared to half-life 1.
  
  (GAMEPLAY)
  The gameplay is similar to 
 half life1, it is very addicting , confusing, fun and 
  well just, basically a VERY good fps. I would play hl2 if i could but i dont have it.
  (trying 
 to get it) .
  
  (THE BAD SIDES)
  The only badsides are that the main character (you) doesnt talk throughout
  the whole thing. 
 (you'd think he would right?) and Half-Life 2 doesnt really continue from the 
  1st one. And now you have to buy the orange box. they dont sell it singular anymore... it costs 
 $100.
  suxxors aye?
  
  That was my review hope you enjoyed it! :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  If you're like me, I was there when Half Life was on WON. Before steam exsisted and when Sierra 
 was a part of the Half Life family. So, when Half Life 2 was nearing release so many years after 
 the previous doubts and worries began to over flow. Within a short time of obtaining the special 
 edition though all worries were put to rest.
  Graphically the game is beautiful, while many would speculate that Doom 3 looks better Valves design 
 behind the Source Engine was to make a upgrade able engine that could keep up with the times. At 
 the time of this review being written, all graphic updates up to Episode 2 are being taken into 
 account. 
  Half Life 2 had a LOT to live up to, but it does live up and surpass. While the first half life 
 was amazing up to the end, the first tended to slow down once in the Xen part of the story. Annoying 
 and un interesting level design aswell as less interesting combat with only the Xen to fight and 
 no Marines. Half Life 2 on the other hand improves apon these aspects and keeps the soldier aspect 
 of the game in from beginning to end, including the spectacular and completely unexpected ending 
 the game doesn't dissapoint from beginning to end. 
  Beyond the look and the story though Half Life 2 supports one other thing that many games do not. 
 Even the amazing Unreal engine which is Half Lifes closest competitor in the mod world doesn't 
 come close. The modding community adds a few things to any game, mainly longevity and replayability. 
 While most games you beat you're done with, the highly modable and changable Source Engine for 
 Half Life 2 means new and most importantly free games. Games like Dystopia, Battlegrounds, Natural 
 Selection and Half Quake. These games are extremely fun and free of charge to obtain and play. 
 The list goes on and on, but the ability to buy a SINGLE game and then download free and play hundreds 
 of other games is a major bonus. Being a huge mod fan of the original Half Life I can tell you 
 well more than 100 decent mods were made for the original Half Life and since Valve took modding 
 into mind with Half Life 2 it's only a matter of time till the numbers catch up. Three of the biggest 
 addons to Half Life began as mods infact. Counter Strike, Day of Defeat and Team Fortress were 
 all free mods made by the community before Valve bought them and turned them into what they are 
 now. 
  
  Overall
  +Graphics. With it's current graphics Half Life doesn't leave you in awe usually but isn't hard 
 on the eyes. Though some scenes such as in Episode 1 will leave you struck.
  +Story. A wild and inventive story will keep you interested as you realize you havn't heard this 
 one 10000 times before.
  +Length. While no good game can be too long, it can be too short. Half Life doesn't leave you wondering 
 where the actual gameplay was, you'll be good and worn out after putting it to the test.
  +Weapons and more weapons. Keeping with design the weaponry in Half Life 2 is not only wide in 
 choices but all have unique and interesting properties. From the trusty Crowbar to the Gravity 
 gun, combat can range from brutal close combat to sci-fi shoot out. 
  +Engine. The source engine is amazing, plus the Havok physics the engine can be used for years 
 to come. The fact that valve plans on upgrading the source engine drastically every so many years 
 make it a great buy.
  
  The Bad
  The fact is every game has something 'bad' about it, but few can be said to have no real down points. 
 Unless you dislike First Person Shooters, you're going to like if not love Half Life 2. Half Life 
 2 proves to be among the rarest of the rare, unless you dislike the genre, you won't dislike Half 
 Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cinoy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, it features a new state of the art graphics design. Including magnificent 
 water reflections, ragdoll effects, and new texture to the well known HL2 BLOOD SYSTEM. This is 
 a ridiculously great game. Especially with the deathmatch mod on, this game is a blast. Experience 
 co-op mode with all of your friends online. The story is absoluteley enigmatic, very suspensful. 
 And be on the alert for the dead. I think this game is great for any horror action teen. Not only 
 are there new weapons, but also the ability to switch between weapons with the turn of a mouse. 
 The new modding system allows for players to mod their own maps and create servers allowing others 
 to enjoy their wonderful creation. So get off the couch and buy this game now, i suggest you buy 
 the counter strike source package which comes with css, hlf2dm, hl2lc, dods, and more. And one 
 more thing, THE PHYSICS ENGINE IS THE BEST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anti-viper
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you combine cutting edge visuals with infinite replayibility? Half Life 2. 
 I can drone on about how amazing it is, how much I would recommend it, how much you'll get out 
 of it. But, I will keep my mouth from saying that it is the greatest game ever made. However, I 
 also highly regard Halo 3, and LOZ: OOT in that category, which it belongs it. It is not perfect, 
 but it is almost perfect on so many levels, it does not matter. The visuals are insane, the gameplay 
 is frantic, then slow, then frantic, then as high as the sky insane. I can not list how many times 
 my mouth dropped open in joy or amazement in this hell uva game. The levels are memorial, and the 
 weapon balance is absurd. That being said, the weapon selection isn't to huge, but each will be 
 used at some point. While the FPS is great, it's the puzzles I love. I love using my mind to get 
 around obstacles, and take down enemies. Long live (one of) the greatest game (s) of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crsh01
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  This game is a spectacular game that sets the standards for FPS. It's one of those games that you 
 rant about all the time about even though you have all ready convinced your friends to buy it. 
 
  
  Graphics
  Even at its highest it doesn't compete nowhere close to crysis but still delivers beautifully. 
 The world you're in lives and breaths according to its surrounding and you will you never yell 
 WTF because somebody walks through a wall.
  
  Sound 
  Voice acting is top notch and doesn't laugh stupid one liners.
  The noises provide a atmosphere 
 suitable to each environment.
  
  Game play 
  Brilliant makes you say wow every time you throw a giant crate at a unsuspecting Soldier with the 
 gravity gun, or blast a mother in the face with the shotgun.
  
  Story
  as is good as it get in the gaming world the story is continuous and keeps you interested. you 
 find yourself glad to see certain characters even though you don't know them after leaving the 
 zombie infested ravenhorm 
  
  I suggest you get this game for the pc a soon a possible and if you're not a pc gamer I suggest 
 you buy orange box for Xbox 360 or PS3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementality89
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  First off, ive never got round to properly playing half life, however I have a copy awaiting me 
 as I speak.
  
  But anyway, Half-Life 2. Ill go over bad stuff first.
  
  The S**t
  -Bad squad AI, due to your men being nothing short of slack jaw retarded. They reminded me of Natalya 
 from Goldeneye on the N64 in the jungle level when she used to shout with glee after she "got one", 
 however this is not what bothered me. When they blocked me from fleeing a strategically placed 
 turret on a stair way near the end however and I got turned into pedigree chum, I began to get 
 a little peeved. 
  
  -I played this on the pc, so things were a little jumpy at times. Not frame rate wise, as I reached 
 100+ fps at all times, but whenever I went to save or load the game took a mini epileptic fit and 
 froze a little, nothing major tho.
  
  -Some aspects I felt they didn't make the most of. For example, the fact I could control a legion 
 of fanged, vicious giant insects seemed pretty f**king awesome by anyones standards but I only 
 benefited from that for maybe 2 hours at most, it felt very short lived and loose ended. 
  
  -Some parts of the level design could have been better. Most were innovative and well thought 
 out, others I felt repeated themselves a little.
  
  Well, I honestly cant think of anything else bad to say, so good stuff.
  
  Thee S**t
  -Weapons 
 are awesome looking and sounding, as is the rest of the game. For something thats nearing 4 years 
 of age, it still looks incredible. Mention goes to the citadel when you get inside it's walls, 
 my jaw had to be scraped from the ground a few times at just however gargantuan and amazing it 
 looked.
  
  -Nice story, in my opinion obviously. Ive played better stories obvious, a fps couldn't compete 
 with rpg level writers but good for the genre.
  
  -Atmospheric and really sucks you in. The accompanying music really hypes you up and goes very 
 well with whatever situation is ahead. 
  
  -Some nice fresh ideas in what appears to be a stagnating market at times. Seeing that developers 
 can throw together original and well thought out ideas in such conditions is quite the beacon of 
 shining hope.
  
  -At some points, i really felt like Valve were f**king with me, like some sort of puppet. For example 
 during the Ravenholm level, I found myself becoming quite scarce in the ammo department yet the 
 hordes of zombies coming up back alleys and stairways did nothing but increase. I don't know about 
 everyone else, but I thought this was f**king awesome.
  
  Theres alot I can say about this game, as it ranges from 10-20 hours, I think I spent roughly 16 
 on it myself, but one thing I can say for sure, at no point in my long adventure did I feel things 
 got old or boring. I was constantly on my feet with new enemies, allies and weapons. Although the 
 difficulty was a little bit of a cruise at times, it took a skip up here and there, when I found 
 myself clinging to my last 6 units of health and I very much intend to get episode 1 and 2. Easily 
 a contender for my game of the year. Overall it's a very well done game with good design and immersive 
 elements throughout.
  
  and if you still don't like the game after discovering theres a gun that can throw virtually anything 
 at virtually anything then you must be Hilary Clinton or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  Game Review: Half Life 2
  
  Half Life 1 was released in 1998 ( A year of note for the sheer number of fantastic games that 
 came out .) Developed by Valve and published by Sierra, it was a smash hit. It pioneered scripted 
 in-game events that helped move the story around. It also spawned a large modding community, from 
 which games like Counter Strike and Day of Defeat were born. Half life 2 was in the making for 
 a long time, mostly because Valve wanted to wait for some huge innovative thing that they could 
 do with the game. That thing, ended up being physics. A link to some history about Half Life 2's 
 development will be provided at the bottom of the page.
  
  Let's start with a bit on the story. You are Gordon Freeman, a theoretical physicist who saved 
 the world from the Xen in the original Half Life. Now the world has been taken over by the Combine, 
 an alien race with immense power. Blah blah blah and then you are helping the human rebels destroy 
 the Combine. You're character is the very definition of 'Tabula Rasa', as in blank slate. He says 
 nothing during the entire game, which Gordon sometimes gets comments for. But really what it is 
 intended to do is to suck you into the game and make the player feel like YOU are Gordon Freeman, 
 which it does splendidly.
  
  The story is great, the world you are in has lots of detail and little things about it that can 
 really immerse you.
  
  The graphics were top of the line when it came out, and fare very well even in this day and age. 
 Physics are simply superb, with things acting realistically, and the physics itself actually plays 
 a roll in the gameplay at numerous occasions. Obviously the graphics aren't as good as the games 
 made on the optimized and upgraded version of the Source engine such as Team Fortress 2, but that's 
 made up for in it's gamplay depth and personality.
  
  The game is a first person shooter, like every other game I've reviewed so far. The HUD, as in 
 Heads Up Display which shows you your armor status and ammunition, is in my opinion the best of 
 any game out there. The reason why I think this is that it is just so simple. Why don't other games 
 think of that? It is very very stripped down and simplistic, but at the same time has sort of a 
 slick style to it. 10/10 for the HUD, which is a similar style to that used in Counter Strike.
 
  
  The weapons feel good. You have your staples here, such as the pistol, sub-machine gun, assault 
 rifle, shotgun and a crowbar (Not so standard.) And you also have some other odd weapons to accompany 
 them. The difficulty is adjustable, which affects the strength of your guns as well as the enemy 
 power. And as an aside, I have to say this games shotgun is my all time favorite of any shooting 
 game, just because it is so cool looking.
  
  The AI is also great. At least when like, walking around and stuff. Fighting enemy AI isn't something 
 you will notice much, it's good, but this isn't like F. E. A. R with the enemy squads acting all... well... squad 
 like and ganging up on you and such. It's not so much the AI but the detail that they put into 
 the environments that makes the enemies so great.
  
  And that brings us to the enemies. The things you are fighting all fit into the story and are very 
 interesting. Some common ones are varieties of the Combine forces, who all look awesome. There 
 are also Antlions which you encounter later in the game, and of course, headcrabs.
  
  The atmosphere in the game is perhaps it's best aspect, and that is saying a lot. You start out 
 in the train station for City 17, the place you will be spending a lot of your time in. You see 
 people pacing about, and if you try to talk to them they indicate that they know who you are, and 
 that others do too. The voice acting in the game is very believable, especially from the Character 
 Alyx Vance.
  
  And there is one weapon I didn't mention before because I wanted to dedicate a paragraph to it, 
 the Zero-point gravity gun. It is basically the apotheosis of all physics that had ever been incorporated 
 into games before Half Life 2. Using this gun you can levitate objects in front of you, and then 
 shoot it away. Or if it is too heavy you can sort of push it. This thing is just a joy to use. 
 You can use it as a deadly weapon as well by picking up sharp objects with it and shooting them 
 at enemies.
  
  The sound in the game is captivating. From the fantastic voice acting from all the characters, 
 to the shrill scream of the zombies, to the sound of exploding grenades this game delivers on all 
 fronts when it comes to sound.
  
  Overall, the graphics, the sound, the atmosphere, the gameplay, everything is fantastic. The game 
 is standard length for a shooting game but it has replay value just because of how good it is. 
 If you haven't already played Half Life 2, I suggest you pick up the Orange Box so you can play 
 this and the entire Half Life 2 series, you won't be disappointed
  
  9.5/10
  
  
  "To be or not to be: that is the question"
  William Shakespeare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phxsns1
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This is how to make a first person shooter. Better yet, this is how to make a game! Great story, 
 great sound, great graphics, and in my opinion some of the best enemies in a game ever. Put that 
 together and you have a great game. Let's start of with the physics engine. Dude, AWESOME!!!!!! 
 I mean this means you can interact with everything around you. Chairs, desks, people, barrels, 
 anything you see. The weapons in the game are simple yet fun. Pistol, revolver, submachine gun, 
 shotgun (I LOVE the shotgun) , crowbar, grenades, crossbow, pulse rifle, and rocket launcher are 
 all really fun, but probably not as fun as the gravity gun. This thing may be the most useful thing 
 in the game next to the crowbar. The enemies are really cool, too. EVERYTHING ABOUT THE GAME IS 
 COOL!!!!!! If you haven't played this than you can't call yourself a true gamer. This is the perfect 
 game. Not only does it rank up there with great first person shooters like Halo, Doom, the original 
 Half Life, Perfect Dark and Goldeneye, but it ranks up there with great games in general, like 
 Super Mario 64, Ocarina of Time and maybe even some of the earlier Mario games. In my opinion, 
 this game will go down as one of the true classics in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minigeo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  If you read my Crysis review you would recall me saying that Crysis is and artwork game and pretty 
 average but Half Life 2 is totally different.
  For 1 it has a good storyline which is used well and you get rewarded with little sections of it 
 quite often like a new character or something. The game has excellent graphics but doesnt use that 
 as its main driving force instead has amazing gameplay, good AI on Enemies, Challenging, and some 
 pretty odd and sometime scary ( not very ) parts when lights flicker or some odd zombie things 
 run behind you which can scare. This is probably my idea of a perfect game and a perfect FPS. Guns 
 are well balanced and well powered and if NPCs get the guns they have the same power as you so 
 you dont have uber weapons when they have weak weapons that do piddly amounts of damage.
  To summarise: Great gameplay and graphics, could be bothered to play till the end, uses great physic 
 engine (please dont overuse that concrete block puzzle) AI very reasonable, easy to pick up and 
 play and not too hard or to easy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj-feltersnatch
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 (refered to as HF2 for now on) is one of the greatest FPS's to ever grace the market, 
 and even has great puzzle solving thrown into it. The game starts with Gordon Freeman waking from 
 his stasis after about 20 years, and the earth has been taken over by the alien combine (they may 
 be called aliens, but the soliders are humanoid and they talk just like us) . The combine have taken 
 over earth in just 7 hours. Gordon gets off of the train at City 17, and is intercepted by the 
 great Barney Calhoun. Barney gets Gordon up to date about the present danger and sends him to find 
 Eli Vance, one of Gordon's old co-workers. From here the game takes off into one fantastic adventure, 
 too long to talk about, and I don't want to ruin it for anybody.
  
  HF2 has great graphics, sound, and gameplay. The voice acting also fits the game perfectly. If 
 you play HF2 on the computer there are some spots where there is lag no matter what, but it is 
 only for a split second and dosen't mess with the game at all. The game also is revolutionary because 
 it is not like a traditional FPS where you just run and gun, instead of killing everything in sight 
 with a fully automatic rifle that splits people in half, you have to think about where your going 
 and how to get past obstacles in order to progress. There are times in the game where an entire 
 combine squad will be on you and you just open up with your pulse rifle, but that is awesome just 
 because you will learn to hate the combine.
  
  HF2 is a great game, to great to review everything. I have missed the Gravity Gun, all of the enemies, 
 the vehicles, its just too much. Get the game, play it, enjoy it, and play the episodes that come 
 after. Great game? or Greatest you decide (it will probably be greatest) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubleajunkie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  So right now, the only PC game I've been playing is Half-Life 2.
  Although I've never played the first Half-Life, and have no idea how is it, HL2 is pretty awesome. 
 I've heard HL2 is pretty similar to the first game, and was kinda disappointing because it had 
 alot of the same stuff as HL; but I guess I can't agree until I've played it. (Which I will someday.)
 
  Anyway, to me, HL2 is an awesome FPS. The story's atmosphere seems kinda empty, I guess since 
 no one else is really around most of the time except the Combine and the headcrabs, but it's still 
 a really addicting and entertaining game. Not to mention really fun. I really like how you have 
 to figure out alot of, I guess you could say puzzles, to continue through the level. Some stuff 
 gets me stuck for awhile, but its fun figuring everything out. 
  You understand the story-line pretty quickly even if you haven't played Half- Life before. At least 
 I did. I didn't really think I'd like HL2 that much when I started the demo and first heard about 
 it, because I haven't really been into these kinda games for awhile, but I actually think its a 
 really neat game, and I'd recommend it to anyone... 
  And so ends my review about HL2...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is simply great. I bought this one day, without really knowing what to expect. I had 
 heard about the name 'Half life' but as a starting gamer didnt have clue. From the moment it started 
 this game grew on e, and pulled me into the world of Dr. Freeman. The Graphics of the game are 
 great, still no at the end of the DX9 era. The physics n the game are very cool and allow for some 
 cool additions that elevate HL2 from a regular shooter to a great game. Even if you're not a fan 
 of FPS games this is ne of the games you should check. The in game story telling was something 
 that was absolutely revolutionairy to me, and made me really feel as if I was there, running from 
 the Combine and fighting for the survival of our species.
  
  The levels are linear, but very large, and often so ingeniously constructed that you don't have 
 the feeling of linear game play. Actually I was often happy that the levels where linear, so I 
 could rest assured I was headed the right way :)
  
  The guns are cool, feel right and shoot the way you expect hem to. There are even some unusual 
 but great weapons like the crossbow with heated iron bars, and off course the gravity gun stole 
 the show.
  
  Half Life 2 is actually on the few games ever that kep me interest enough to let me actually finish 
 it, and got me hooked onto th Half Life universe and modern FPS games, that have adapted the methods 
 valve introduced, in general. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer114
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  half-life 2 the follow on to half-life but is it good or bad first of all the game has good grathics 
 but the one problem is that it just shows you a place and you have just about 3 seconds to look 
 around before they tell you to follow on but with the releasing of half-life 2 eposode 1and 2 the 
 story of half-life seems a little longer but you don't get that much help from your team the rebel 
 and freinds that help you in c-17s rebel stage did about 3 kills then them then selves got killed 
 but them most helpful carter is the loving freind you find in reavem home then on called faver 
 the gives you one of his shot guns and a lot of ammo as you progress in reamohome and when you 
 get to the end he starts killing the zomibes really easily you don't even need to do any work well 
 you still need to whach out for the zombies but over all i that half-life 2 is a very good game 
 and is worth buying (could be better with counter strike sorce) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMADxDOGx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Hi, I gues that who played half life would like the gameplay very much, i think it is the best one 
 for an fps :) , there is enof blood and you play in each area, in houzes outside,... and i think mostly 
 the post apokaliptiul area, and feeling that we all feel when we play half life :) , its like the 
 end of humanety! and your instinct to let it expand and prevent the distruction of our ras :) evin 
 in a gama-aspesiuly this one, outside the gameplay and the storyline this takes a big part why people 
 like this game so much! The people who played half life would also be very interested in the story 
 line of this game, some people want evin go farthere and think about it, how it is ,how it will be 
 in the next episode,... all that kine of things. The most people have also a theory about half life 
 and espesialy about that mistereius man in his blue suit, Gman :) now i will explain you what my 
 therory is :)
  
  In half life there can be two possible sorts of story lines, the logical and teh not logical. I will 
 explain the logical one, kos the not logical are very very long! eaven longer than this!. there ara 
 also many differnet logical storylines ,i will try to explane it to you
  
  When Gordon, defeeds the xen leader at the end of half 1, Gman get impressed and want gordon to 
 help him (kos if gordon kan destroy that he would also be abel to destroy the combines) . Gordon gets 
 in a stazys and awakes up in halflife 2 in the future. NOW i asked my self, how can it be that a 
 simple man in a blue suit can do somthing like that ,in half life 1 gman can teleportate from iach 
 lokation to an other by making greeen... portals, if you compair that event in the game PORTAL shell 
 needs a portalsuplayer to do that, Gman dont need a one, this meens that Gman is supernatural. Now 
 you will ask your self why is he supernatural? the logical answer to that is: Bekos Gman is probebly 
 the director of aparatura science, and that was the opponent of black messa. Gmans mission was to 
 be bether than black messa and evin destroy it. He would do enything to be bether, and he did it 
 by probebly making the first portal. After that he met the kombines and was probebly the first one 
 who met them, he made a deal with theme, he would let the combines dominate the world if they would 
 give him supernatural power like teleportating without portalsuplyer or stop time ... now there 
 is a litle question. Why are the comines didn't teleportate from gmans portal and that of black 
 messa one?2 logical answers are: or gman dodnt wanted it bekos apareture sciens would be destroyed 
 by the xens and than he would never be bether than black messa (his mission is stil be bether than 
 blackmessa and destroy it , so in the beginning of hal life 1 you see gman koming on a trein from 
 black messa   he mabe gave "a" cordination of the xen space to black messa so that they would open 
 it on a bad way bekos the cordination is wrong ... and all the madnes would be sended on black 
 messa, and be destroyed) bekos of this event the combines detected a powerfull portalsuplier and 
 noticed the cordination of a big portal (not that of gman ,his one is litle and the cordinations 
 are mabe wrong... or mabe not.. so it kould be that the combines would use gmans cordination to reach 
 earth) the 2nd logical possibilety can be: that gman makes a portalsuplier with a litle "size", 
 just for shell or an other individual, him self... gordon... thats why it would be impossible to teleportate 
 a big part of the xen univors to earth ( the portal is to litle) , and bekos that black messa made 
 a big portal suplier and that they are abel to teleportate a big part of the xen aliens to earth. At 
 this time the combines are landed on earth and there started the 7hour war... with combines defeating 
 the men and dominating it.
  
  Now that Gman has his powers he can do enything to dominate the world. Now you would say, he would 
 try to destroy the combines and get there power, yes its true but he cant do that on his one, he 
 need a "team", and gues what? Gordon makes a part of his team, he want convens gordon to be at his 
 side so he can destroy the combines, and bekos of the spesial powers that gman has ,gordon want 
 be abel to dominate the world after defeeting the combines, gman would kill him, kos he has spesial 
 powers, but gordon dont realise that! gman knows that gordon will mabe kit his team bekos alex would 
 die and gman dont need alex (bekos she will convens gordon to quit gmans "team" in the future if 
 alex would met gman... so gman "kills"her ,when gordon want gman to resurect alex he dont do that 
 evin when he has the power...) -whe she resurects with the power of vortigans gordon kit gmans team 
 and want "stop" gman. Gman knowed this from the beginning, thats why he founed shepperd! to be on 
 his side if gordon quit his team.... so it is a big possibilety that shepperd apears in episode 
 3 :) or half life 3 ...
  
  Now i think i have every thing exept one thing. We know who gman is now , he want to dominate the 
 world by first making the black messa a big mistake, open the portal with his cordination (s) so 
 that they want be abel to stop gman at the end ... now the last thing is "shell", she is the portal 
 suply tester, and her mission is to get the cace , this cace is actualy a stupi thing and shell 
 realise then that glados want to kill her .... so she escapes ... glados isn't dead how she expect... probebly 
 is shell not a vilain in half life so probebly in the next half lifes she will meet gordon .. doktor 
 kleiner ... from that event we will have 2 teams! Gordon, Alex and schell vs gman, glados and shepperd. Maby 
 shepperd will quit gmans team and evin glados, bekos glados is the computer of gman and each artificial 
 intelegens quit their maders and usualy kill them ,but than i think the whole story would end and 
 than it want be a problem for gordon to destroy glados with his arsenal.... so when gordon defeeds 
 the combine he will be a big hero and mabe lead the combine universes and give the freedom of the 
 owners bak, Gman would stop him and be the leader of the worlds likea god with super natural powers, this 
 is the logicallest possebilety you can have in half life 2! but now now i forgot one thing :p why 
 is gman talking so weared and why is he so old... and scary? bekos :) this is very kogical! and 
 there are 2 possebiletys (logical) 1he mabe plant some inplantans in his bodey to live without food 
 or somthig like that ... or :) he has the inplantants and! he needs it to live long! why? bekos there 
 are many realetys where gordon exist! Gman want to own thees to! he want to own each realety in the 
 whole sub dimension! to do that and travel so far ! you need to be imposseble old! and after some 
 1 0000000... light years traveling he cant speak so properly any more! or he is mabe allredy dead! 
 and he is sending a sort of radio frecuentive messege to gordon that just dont want to stop kos 
 no-one kan due that   THIS is mabe very stupid what i say now but i thinked much about that and 
 this is very logical... why does he speak like that? who is he? .... gman can be dead and he can 
 just be an emision of some power that makes him looks a bit human ... but if you are dead it want 
 mean you dont exist, your sole is still there and mabe gman is just a soul, i dont know ,kos it is 
 not logicalTthe piople who says that gman is gordon freman is also a big big logical thing-its 
 the logicalllest one mabe! he looks like him ... -you think that gman is gordon you need to have 
 an idea how he is bekame so ugly ... and all that stuf- well i think: When gordon defeeded the 
 combines he will be the leader of the worlds they dominated. After some time Gordon, like a univers 
 dominater, gets just like the combines they self, also so "evil" or mabe not evil! if he would bekome 
 evil he would be more and more selfisch and he wanted still more and more! that means liek an indiveduel, 
 gordom or gman! goes in the past! to stop gordon (or his self when he was stupid and joung) to dominate 
 the woulrd (in the past) - he mabe realised that if he would domiante the wourld in his joung ages 
 there would be a big problem with some politikal or economical things- thats why he need to dominate 
 the past! to schange the future in a good way! and go back where he would dominate not only the 
 univers but also all the possebiletys (realetys) and evin the dimensions! the 2nd thing is that 
 if gordon (gman) would make a big mistake in the future and let his empire fall down and dominating 
 by an other intelegens ... gman goes back in the past and let gordon prevent this! or evin kill 
 him (self) after the defeeding of the combine-so that he want see how his empire will fall down 
 in the future and let him self do all theese things (go back in the past and say it in each realetys... and 
 getting old and feel very bad : ( thatswhy gman want to prevent his self to be punnished like that 
 in the future! 
  
  I'm done now and i hope you understand it :) ! i thaut very long about this and i evin kouldent 
 sleap about that : ( , the things like doctor breen and all that suf are jsut pionsin hal life 2! 
 they dont oplay a big role! beleav me! dktr kleiner has indeed a big role in this game and alex 
 with gordon, shell and schepperd to ... :) i made evin a scheme of all the evnets of the storyline 
 :) i mabe can be wrong about what i say! but what i say is very logical! and if valve have an none 
 logical storyline, well than :p .... i m probbly wrong! but i hope not , kos everything is logical! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Viking
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  I don't care about the graphics, the A. I, the engine they use. As long as it as a story and i am good. but, this 
 game don't not have a awe inspring story that are shooter games like halo 1,2 and 3, mass effect. To 
 me, it is so boring at times. RUN, RUN, RUN. they put in sprint because you'll be run the WHOLE GAME! Thats 
 the story. thats it. Why do everyone care that the game has the ablity for you to knock over a can 
 or move bodies around. What the point?! I JUST WANT TO KILL AND GET THIS BORING GAME OVER WITH! No 
 fancy graphic, no fancy music, no fancy guns, i just want it to be good. Here's what i want it to be. This 
 game is annoying too. So annoying, you'll hate half life 2. How can you bring yourself to play this 
 game and say that, wow, this game is awesome especially the parts where you just run and run. yay. This 
 game is horrible to me. It is. and i hate it more when people make this game sound as the best game 
 ever. I am so glad they had one thing i liked. ALYX. She is fine! I am glad this game is going bye 
 bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I realy can't express this enough, THIS GAME IS AWSOME!!!! Mostly due to the most amazing physics 
 engine of all time. And of course.... the GRAVITY GUN!!!! Which is the coolest gun of all time. 
 It lets you pick up stuff and throw it at guys to smash, destroy, and cut bad guys in half!!! You 
 will love this game, and if you don't then black mesa will come to your house and kill you!!!! 
 This game realy couldn't have been better. It realy is one of the greatest games I have ever played. 
 It is extremely pleasing and fun to play. you will probably be fully satified with this game and 
 if for some reason you haven't already played it then go play it right now, you won't be sorry. 
 The other guns that arn't the gravity gun arn't quite as cool as the gravity gun are still generly 
 amazingly fun and satisfying to use, due to the viseral feel you get when you shoot a bad guy and 
 blood splatters on the wall behind them and then they fumble to the ground. The physics engine 
 realy adds to everything in the game, like when you pick stuff up and drop it, it falls and bounces 
 exactly the way you think it would in real life. And when you kill a guy, if he is near a ledge, 
 he will fall off extremely convincingly. I loved this game and I think you will to! Inspite of 
 maybe a part or two of a level or two being maybe not as smooth as I would have liked. And as an 
 example, say your on the top of a building and it took you FOREVER to get up there, if you fall 
 off by accident or maybe you get knocked off the building, often you will NOT die and will have 
 to climb back up. This isn't realy that much of a problem because the game saves after about every 
 few seconds, so you can just revert to your last save, and most likely you will be like 5 seconds 
 away from being where you were before you fell off. So there arn't realy ANY problems with the 
 game, that hurt it in any significant way, but there are enough tiny little flaws to not give the 
 game a 10.0 , but it was pretty close.
  
  Good: The best gun ever!!!
  The most viseral kills I have ever experienced.
  Almost every level is perfect.
  Great story.
 
  
  Bad: A very few parts of some levels are kinda anoying.
  The story leaves you hanging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  Half-Life was amazing when it released, even for a FPS using the aged Quake 2 engine. The addition 
 of detailed scripts along with outstanding gameplay made it stand in a league of it's own. A few 
 years passed and fans waited what felt like forever for HL2. Now it is out, or has been out for 
 awhile, and if you have not at least played it once by now, then you are not a PC gamer. The FPS 
 that made a revolution in PC gaming is back to do it once again, and it is one sexy beast!
  
  Besides the new graphics, which we'll get to later, the big thing that Half-Life 2 has going 
 for it is the addition of the Havok physics engine. Being one of the first FPS games to use it, 
 HL2 makes quite an impression in gameplay and atmosphere. You could spend hours just playing around 
 with objects (throwing televisions out of windows never gets old) . There is a point to the physics 
 though, and it makes great use of it for the puzzles of HL2. Environments will sometimes seem impossible 
 to get through, that is until you find a solution by manipulating objects, just like in the real 
 world. 
  
  The game provides a decent mix of physics gameplay and good old fashion gun blasting. You will 
 find the return of many of the weapons from HL, with some extra goodies tossed in to mix things 
 up. There is a gun that will allow you to pick up bodies and fling them across the map, making 
 for a satisfying splat as their rag doll interacts with the level. There are also plenty of opportunities 
 to use mounted guns and different drivable vehicles, including a dune buggy trip up the coast complete 
 with mounted machine guns. The gameplay stays fresh and adds a superb mix of different combat situations.
 
  
  The graphics are some of the best seen at time of release, dominating the dull textures of rival 
 Doom 3. Environments feel very much alive and are changed often to keep things fresh. Lighting 
 is done well, especially noted at the beginning of the game, take notice of the effect the light 
 casts through the train station's windows. Models are done well, including some of the creatures 
 used in the previous Half-Life game. The music and sound is great, and provides the same spurts 
 of techno that were found in the original HL.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a classic that will be talked about for years to come. It takes the best elements 
 of physics, gameplay, graphics and outstanding sound to complete one of the best FPS ever released. 
 A must have for any serious PC gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bananasniper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  A sequel to the highly acclaimed Half-Life, Half Life 2 puts you in Gordon Freeman's shoes as he 
 fights against alien invaders. While the story may seem cliche' but the action is very engaging 
 and intuitive. There are a variety of weapons ( however many were dropped from the first game [sorry 
 laser fans] ) which are gradually introduced as to help the user learn each one. One of the fine 
 points of the game is the Source engine which allows plentiful interaction with physics objects. 
 This engine is also part of arguably the best gun ever. The gravity fun (Zero-Point Energy Field 
 Manipulator) allows you to pick up nearly anything medium to small sized and throw it or just drop 
 it. This comes in handy if you don't want to risky getting attacked in a dead end vent that has 
 supplies in it or if you just want to chuck an explosive barrel at a horde of zombies. The enemies 
 AI is merely ok (but very few games manage to implement AI well anyway) and sometimes sketchy (the 
 headcrabs sometimes have some trouble locating you) but it suffices. The game itself looks pretty 
 good even if you're not running it at max settings. I ran it on 7600GS AGP, Intel 2.4 GHz P4 with 
 512MB of ram. The framerates were well in the high 50s on medium settings for me and in the mid 
 30s during a lot of action. The game is available for $20 (a steal) on Steam or retail. I would 
 recommend getting the Orange Box ($50) which includes Half Life 2, HL2 Episode 1, HL2 Episode 2, 
 Portal and Team Fortress 2 (5 games for $50, not bad eh?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantomi_08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Ez a jatek nagyon jo es erdekes, nem olyan mint a tobbi shooter jatek hogy csak mesz es mesz es 
 mesz es csak olsz, hanem vagyon jo tortenete van. A grafikaja is eleg jo, vannak benne hibak, de 
 ez nem sokat von le a jatek imigabol. Engem csak az idegesitett a jatekban hogy sohasem lehetett 
 megnezni hogy kivel vagyok es az hogy sosem szolal meg. A nehezseget tekintve nem olyan nagyon 
 nehez, de konnyunek se irnam le, mert volt egy par helyen ahol ketszer vagy haromszor ismeg kellett 
 hogy probaljam. Iranyitani is konnyu, aki meg nem jatszott shootert szerintem meg 5 perc sem kell 
 ahhoz hogy megszokja az iranyitast. Es meg egy erdekesseg az, hogy keves olyan jatekot lattam amelyikben 
 a vegen meghal a 2 foszereplo, persze csak a kovetkezo resz megjeleneseig, de ameddig nem jelent 
 meg a folytatas addig nem lehetett tudni hogy mi lesz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilcupcake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Ok so its been almost 10 years since hl1 came out and trust me it was worth the wait half life 
 2 takes the player into a refugeed city 17 which holds the survivors from seven hour war against 
 the combine it would of been nice to have it start back a bit later such as you would be a citizen 
 trying to survive the war b w/ever the graphics are great everything sort of has a mourgy feel 
 to it as with the raw death of seeing you die with the red screen wasn't enough this game captures 
 the bloody scary feel of its predecessors yet at some moments it doesn't feel that organic the 
 environments are vast and i love games that create a whole apolitical universe that makes you want 
 to know every little thing about it and explore every little nook and cranny the combine and enemies 
 are awesome for example the strider a 50 ft tall alien creature hooked up to guns and walks on 
 3 giant legs how is that not cool?! Altho the environments for example the citadel the thing looks 
 amazing standing up thousands of feet tall against the pathetic little city 17 witch I believe 
 is modern day Berlin the campaign is of a great length too almost perfectly synchronized with everything 
 there are some cons here too sadly the only on is take offs of the original half life such as being 
 trapped in a garbage container and squashing you? Same thing happens except with these walls that 
 come out from the citadel that are also very cool in all I would just buy the orange box to get 
 all of this and more but this game is a sequel that no other can match up to and never will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo888
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is probably the singular best single player game I have ever played. This is because 
 of many reasons. The engaging single player, the great graphics, the way the weapons feel. All 
 of these contribute to how amazing this game is.
  
  This game plays like any other first person shooter, but there are certain things that make it 
 better than most. The weapons feel great, and the HUD is non intrusive. Shooting a shotgun doesn't 
 feel the same as when you shoot a pistol. The only things on the screen are your health and ammo. 
 This, along with the story, help suck you into this game and doesn't let you out until five in 
 the morning. The gameplay also consists of vehicles. These sections are broken up by plenty of 
 shooting, but they sometimes feel a little long. The story brings you through a variety of environments. 
 The thing that sticks out the most is that the gameplay feels very open, but is actually extremely 
 linear. The graphics are nice and sharp but wont blow you away. 
  
  If you are even a little interested in first person shooters then I would give this game a try. 
 You are likely not to forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Varied weapons keep shooting intense; the best cast of characters in any videogame; graphics 
 look really amazing; sound effects and voice acting are top-notch; physics and the gravity gun 
 work together flawlessly.
  
  The Bad: Story is hard to follow and the ending leaves you hanging
  
  Half Life on the PC was 
 probably one of the greatest PC games ever. Solid shooting action combined with great characters 
 and an awesome story made it an instant classic. Half-Life 2 follows in its footsteps without missing 
 a beat. 
  
  At the beginning, a mysterious man in a suit (Who some may call "The G-Man) is talking to you, 
 Gordon Freeman, telling you that your time has come again. You're immediately placed on a transfer 
 train with two other humans. You begin to realize that the world is ruled by the combine, (which 
 are kind of like Robo-Cops) and humans are being held in different cities as prisoners. You have 
 been placed in City 17. After escaping, with the help of some old and new friends, you are attacked 
 yet again. The game has a small bit of story in it, and some of it is a bit hard to follow, but 
 it moves itself along nicely by relentless attacks from the combine and other enemies.
  
  The gameplay is phenomenal. At first, it seems like your average first person shooter. It's got 
 the hand gun, assault rifle, and shotgun. So what separates this from other shooters. That would 
 be the gravity gun. With this gun, you are able to throw, remove, pick up and... do whatever you 
 want with various objects. Coupled with the fantastic physics engine, the gravity gun is one of 
 the most unique weapons in a video game.... ever. Run out of ammo? Throw a trash can at your enemies.
 
  
  The graphics... look absolutely stunning. Again, coupled with the physics engine, you'll see a couple 
 of minor glitches, but the weapons, enemies, facial animations, characters, and... well... everything 
 looks amazing.
  
  Just like the graphics, the music is just amazing. The tempo picks up and gets a fast beat when 
 the action starts to heat up, and random little musical numbers will pop up every once in a while 
 that heighten the tension dramatically. The sound effects, such as the guns firing and the various 
 objects hitting each other, must've taken forever to do. They sound incredible, however. The voice 
 acting is also noticeable... it rocks. Every single voice in this game sounds completely authentic, 
 and the dialogue fits each person perfectly.
  
  The game is pretty lengthy. You've got a solid amount of hours, and it'll take about 3-5 days of 
 play on your first time through to beat it. 
  
  Altogether, Half-Life 2 isn't just an excellent sequel, it's an amazing, thrilling adventure that 
 redefines the genre altogether.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  How do you top what is said to be the greatest PC game ever made? Well Valve might just have the 
 answer with this sequel. It's been in the making for at least five years and right from the beginning 
 you can see it's paid off. Once again you're Gordon Freeman, a scientist (and hero) from the disaster 
 of the Black Mesa Facility. The immersion factor is in place with players never hearing or seeing 
 Gordon. From the start of the game to the startling ending, you ARE he. 
  
  After waking up to the voice of G-Man, who is eerily looking lifelike, you start off in City 17. 
 It soon becomes apparent that Earth has been taken over by faceless alien soldiers and that the 
 abominations from the experiment are now living amongst us. As Gordon Freeman it's up to you to 
 start a revolution. 
  
  Even those who haven't played the first game will be at ease with this one. There are three difficulty 
 settings (I recommend the highest) and the first level gives you a chance to familiarise yourself 
 with the controls and the environment. 
  
  The first game was quite difficult because of its puzzle solving which required you to largely 
 guess what to do. Here things are far more linear but the game is all the better for it. Not only 
 does it add to the immersion factor, that being you always know where to go and what to do, but 
 also it adds an incredible and unmatched lightning pace. The result of which is the glorious adventure 
 game we were all hoping for. The amount of technology will warp gaming forever. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is brought to life with the Source Engine delivering a game world like no other. 
 
  Although many games have included physics in their engines none have actually incorporated it 
 into the game play itself. That is until now. In the world of City 17 almost everything is interactive. 
 At first you can pick up small items like cans and paint tins. Later on though Gordon is given 
 the Gravity Gun, just one of his many new tools. This weapon allows him to attract and repel items. 
 This opens up new options for both the player and the developers. Using the gun you can hurl everything 
 from circular blades to crates at opponents. 
  But it doesn't stop with projectiles.
  
  Valve has also incorporated the physics within the puzzles. There are many occasions were you are 
 required to construct a ramp or fulcrum to reach a higher level or you must use the gravity gun 
 to remove objects blocking your path. There is even a huge surprise at the end of the game with 
 an upgrade to this weapon. 
  
  
  In addition to the physics, the rest of the Source Engine is simply flawless. The visuals are exemplary, 
 with City 17 coming alive with some beautifully rendered landscapes. The water effects are dazzling 
 as well, with its perfects shine and reflection. One of the best features of the engine though 
 is the facial animation. Characters now have expression and the combination of this with some terrific 
 voice acting makes Half-Life 2 seem more like an interactive movie. 
  
  
  A FPS isn't complete without strong AI and it is little surprise that the game delivers again. 
 Like the first game your opponents, soldiers in particular, are tremendously intelligent. They 
 will flank you with grenades, hide behind cover and also side step if you try to sniper them. The 
 friendly squad NPC's will supply you with med packs and even remind you to reload! 
  
  As I said earlier, while quite linear the level design is still intelligently scripted, terrifically 
 paced and just so consistently exciting. At times it feels not unlike Call of Duty as you race 
 through the streets of City 17 with your squad being flanked by soldiers, having the walls around 
 blown up and just feeling that same level of tension during a gunfight. 
  
  The game is made up of thirteen chapters and while it probably isn't as long as the first game 
 it doesn't really need to be. There are many surprises and exciting twists that will keep players 
 compelled throughout.
  
  For all this there is one small gripe towards Half-Life 2. Its not actually related to the game 
 play but the installation of the game. 
  You must have an Internet connection if you want to play the game. This is because Valve has made 
 it compulsory for people to obtain a Steam account. This wouldn't be so bad if you didn't have 
 to register the game and download additional files as well. For those with a 56k modem: beware.
 
  
  While this will upset some people the actually game itself is simply remarkable. I am pleased to 
 say that after all its setbacks this is perhaps one of the finest games ever made. By actually 
 integrating its technology into the game play and also having some terrific action and set pieces 
 PC gaming will never be the same. We have waited for six years for Half-Life 2 and the result is 
 extraordinary. 
  
  
  
  
  For: 
  
  + Best FPS to date.
  
  + Incredible action sequences. 
  
  + Breathtaking engine and technology. 
  
  + Excellent 
 atmosphere and characters. 
  
  
  
  Against: 
  
  - Steam set-up is an unnecessary hassle. 
  
  
  Verdict: 
  
  Although delayed for some 
 time we have finally be given the most anticipated and finest PC games to date. Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_hooligan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  This review will be ultrashort. Why? Beacouse there is nothing to say about this game that could 
 fit in this short space. 10 pages would be much better.
  But... never the less... there is something I can say. WTF did they do to this game and how did they 
 imagine and create this amazing universe??? It's incredible addictive and fascinating. I mean, you 
 know what they say about a good game, there is something undiscrible about it that makes it that 
 good. You actually forget it's a game, and after you stop playing you have a weird sensation about 
 the world outside LOL. So in conclusion all the elements are perfectly done in this game and they 
 gather together and form a suberb analog feel in HL-2. The story, the mistery, the "What's next?" 
 feel, the gameplay, the sound, the graphics, the face animation, the level design, the puzzles, the 
 enemies, the allies and of course very important the way the levels and the locations you visit 
 integrates in the story. You feel it's right. Damn. What a good game. Masterpiece.
  And to think 2 years ago I was still playing Prince of Persia ('90) - the best game ever :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignamatador
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Hi, Half-Life, one of the games that all loves, the revolution on graphics. Half-Life 2 it have 
 a solid strory line, with good voice acting and graphics. This game mark history with Half-Life 
 1, the people now that the second edition will be the best.
  The game have the best story that we can say on a game, the graphics are best than any game of 
 the moment and it have very good physics, the first game that the guys you kill doesn't fall pocing.
 
  The history is very stranger, wath is doing the G-man? why he appears all the time? or why you 
 are on an intitute? the are a lot of thing to now.
  The voices are very good, the acting is the best of all.
  For ultimate, the guns are original, 
 the Gravity gun is very cool and break fourth wallin the FPS genre, and you can use the paint cans 
 like ammo. There are a lot of guns of all kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldaten027
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Dear Lord,
  I would like to confess to not have taken physics, because that makes me less of man than Gordon 
 Freeman.
  My soul being cleansed of what filth it has, can now review Half-Life 2 in serenity.
  That being 
 said, I want you, the reader, to apoligize to Gabe Newell personally if this game does not rate 
 on your top ten games list. Or at least dump all your other games into a vat of nuclear waste.
 
  Half-Life 2, is simply put, one of the greatest games of all time. It is innovative, revolutionary, 
 and spectacular. For a game made in 2004, games today, save for a few, have trouble keeping up 
 with the sheer quality that Half-Life 2 has created.
  The Half-Life story reunites us with our favorite phyiscist, Gordon Freeman. Last time, we gamers 
 saw this bespeactled scientist, we had kicked Nilith's huge head down the gateway to hell and was 
 in the clutches in mysterious G-Man. Fast foward about twenty years, and the world has been taken 
 over by Doctor Breen and his Combine cronies. As trigger-happy and destructive as he is, Gordon 
 Freeman breaks away from the Combine controlled City 17, only to bring the full fury of the human 
 resistance back with him.
  The whole world of Half-Life is gorgeous. The graphics still wow me three years later with their 
 lush enviroments and the superb atmosphere. Even better, the Zero-Point Energy Manipulator, or 
 Gravtiy Gun breaks a fourth wall in the FPS genre, enabling the player to use almost anything as 
 ammunition. The facial expressions are exquistely crafted and still beat the crap out of games 
 like "Halo 3," and the acting ain't no slouch either.
  That being said, do yourself a favor, and please revist Half-Life 2. If you don't, you might be 
 lead to believe that games like "Red Steel" are awesome, and that wouldn't be a good thing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anti18
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 puts you in the shoes of Gordon Freeman, and drops you right into city 17. Right from 
 the get go, you will find yourself hooked on pretty much everything about it. The story is extremely 
 engaging as you will start to feel a relationship between you and the other characters around you, 
 as well as your surroundings and the different atmospheres in the game. Half Life 2's gameplay 
 features an assortment of weapons, but none more fascinating and fun to use then the gravity gun. 
 With the gravity gun you can pick things up, throw them, and luach almost anything. It gives you 
 the opportunity to interact with your surroundings and use them to your advantage. While the enemy 
 A. I. is not great, they are still a challenge and are pretty accurate with their shooting. Also, 
 the game is very fresh throughout. For example there are many instances in which you will be driving 
 a viechle for an entire chapter, while others you will be on foot, and others you will be fighting 
 with Alyx. Graphically, Half Life 2 is stunning. Character models are the most realistic you can 
 find in any game out there. Textures are very smooth and give everything a real life luster to 
 them. Water looks great, and so do all the weapons. The sound is also spectacular. Voice acting 
 is great, and so is the music that will play in the backround to suit the mood during the game. 
 However the sound is hindered by the occasional stutter that will freeze and interrupt gameplay. 
 Half Life 2 also comes with Counter Strike Source, to add multiplayer content that is lacking in 
 the game. All in all Half Life 2 will go down as one of the best games ever. Wether you are a FPS 
 fan or not, Half Life 2 is a must buy and is a great game for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Insane
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Valve and Sierra are jointly known for a lot of things, predominantly in releasing games roughly 
 once every three millennia, and good games every four or five ice ages. They're known for being 
 perfectionists, almost to the standards of Blizzard, which are going to release a new game (that 
 isn't an upgrade of World of Warcraft) some point in the future, and will possibly be installed 
 directly into the area around your pancreas, for maximum playability. Valve and Sierra are known 
 for a lot of things, but we, as gamers, will know them mostly for the genius of Half-Life.
  
  The original game was awesome. There is no other word short of me creating one (such as gunilicious) 
 that can describe it. It placed you in the shoes of Gordon Freeman, the greatest, and unluckiest 
 MIT graduate in the history of gun-toting doctors. Even without the mammoth plot, the fantastic 
 areas, the powerful weapons, the fantastic aliens and breaking boxes open with crowbars, the game 
 itself had one defining achievement: it single-handedly revolutionalised gaming by having no cut-scenes. 
 At any point in the game, you could run about, ignoring or listening to the various characters, 
 radio messages and whatnot through the game, shown by the cinematic opening sequence on the train 
 at the start.
  
  Almost every FPS worth its salt since Half-Life incorporated the freedom that it had. Although 
 the game was linear, it created pathways for you to traverse through the use of Deus Ex Machina 
  doors would be blown shut, scientists would be sucked into air vents, pathways would be destroyed 
  all so that you have the feeling of massive intelligence when you overcome the obstacles and 
 find your own exit out of a headcrab-infested area.
  
  The game spawned updates, additional missions, countless mods as well as expansion packs with the 
 fantastic ability to play as one of the bad guys and Barney, the Black Mesa security guard. Now, 
 predictably, a sequel has arrived. Will it live up to the hype?
  
  Story 8/10
  
  FPS's are not renowned for their stories. This is the exception.
  
  After the Black Mesa Incident, 
 Dr. Gordon Freeman was taken in by the G-Man, a suit-clad gentleman who had been following him 
 the whole way through his journey. He offered Gordon the chance to leave Xen, the alien world that 
 led the assault on Earth, and follow him. Gordon gladly took the chance, and he awoke, many years 
 later, on a train bound for City 17, a commune of humans policed by the sinister Combine, a humanoid 
 race that keep the humans in line.
  
  Upon arriving, Gordon meets Barney, the aforementioned Black Mesa security guard, who is masquerading 
 as a member of the Combine. Barney helps Gordon get in contact with Dr. Kleiner, a fellow Black 
 Mesa worker, who, with the help of a few others, is creating a resistance against the ruthless 
 Combine, and their human representative, Dr. Breen, the ex-Administrator of Black Mesa. Together, 
 with the help of Gordon, the resistance hopes to destroy the Combine's grip on the humans, and 
 get rid of them once and for all.
  
  In a routine transportation, however, things go, predictably, pear-shaped, and Gordon has to don 
 his HEV suit once again and find a way to save the humans his way. That is, with extreme violence.
 
  
  The story takes a few twists and turns as Gordon travels along his path to find Eli Vance, another 
 of Black Mesa's scientists, in order to help cull the Combine threat.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  The gameplay is super-awesome to the max on speed with in-your-face attitude from Hell! Earlier 
 in the game, you get to test out the physics system, which is top-class. The enemies all react 
 accordingly to Rag-Doll physics and a dead baddie will wilt and slump realistically, although sometimes 
 they'll remain standing when shot beside a wall, but a quick shot to the legs stops that, hehehe.
 
  
  The shootouts are standard point-and-fire routines, but Valve has thrown in loads of extra bits 
 specifically made to make your shooting fun more, uh, funner.
  
  Take for example, one of the opening battles. You can aim your gun and shoot the Combine off their 
 ledges, or you can blast at the various barrels dotted about the place, destroying their structures 
 and sending them hurtling towards the ground. Later, you can take control of gun turrets, control 
 troops to attack the forces, or even control some of the aliens themselves to make your life a 
 bit easier.
  
  Between the battles, there are some neat little puzzles to overcome, such as traversing a tower 
 to open a grate, moving vehicles into new areas, or flying full-speed down a canal to outrun a 
 Combine gunship.
  
  To help you, the resistance has supplied you with some vehicles to make your travel easier, notably 
 a buggy and hoverboat, both with gun turrets so you can snipe enemies on the move.
  
  When not speeding down dilapidated highways and byways, you have an array of weapons to choose 
 from, including handguns, machineguns, shotguns rocket launchers, grenades, bombs and the Gravity 
 Gun. All guns have a primary and secondary fire, the latter of which is usually an explosive of 
 some sort, to help you clear out crowds of enemies.
  
  The Gravity Gun is an awesome tool. With it you can literally rip objects off the walls to fire 
 at the bad guys. You can use anything from radiators, to boxes, to buzzsaws, even use weapons and 
 ammo or health packs if you can't pick them up. You can suck items towards you, even massive ones 
 like wrecked cars, and shoot them away at breakneck speed. If something is too big to pick up, 
 you can fire a concentrated blast of energy at it to move it about. My only gripe is that you can't, 
 say, pull guns out from enemies hands to render them useless, but I suppose that would be asking 
 too much.
  
  The enemies to which you do all this wanton damage are varied and exciting. The old favourites 
 are back: head-crabs, zombies, enemy soldiers, and added are a plethora of aliens, including evolutions 
 of existing bad guys. Ever wondered what a head-crab infested human looks like after a few days? 
 They're in there, stronger and faster than ever. Different breeds of head-crab? Yep, there too, 
 and more dangerous, some with a strong toxin that will reduce your health to one point, meaning 
 they're deadly when coupled with other enemies.
  
  The baddies use the environment to their advantage  the combine move objects for cover and use 
 the natural cover, such as huts, fences and ledges to hide. Some zombies with even hurl boxes, 
 cabinets and doors at you.
  
  The boss battles are amazing, requiring more than just sheer firepower to overcome. In most instances 
 you have to use the area around you to trick the enemy into sustaining damage, or opening an escape 
 route for yourself. The later battles get bigger and better, with massive creatures, reminiscent 
 of War of The Worlds teetering down on you, roaring out alien commands to the troops on the ground.
 
  
  Your HEV suit is upgraded, this time with a sprint command that uses up some of the suits energy. 
 The flashlight also drains this energy, but it quickly replenishes when out of use. That nice lady 
 who reminds you when you've been damaged is also back, telling you about lacerations, morphine 
 administration and so forth. Your suit also bleeps cheerfully when you need to reload or your ammo 
 is running dry. And don't worry if you shoot all your shells away, your handy-dandy crowbar is 
 back with a vengeance and the game uses a Max Payne style of balancing out the power. When you're 
 low on health, enemies will sometimes drop short refills to keep you topped up, and will lavish 
 ammo on you from their fallen weapons.
  
  As is Half-Life's staple, you'll be given situations where you need to use your cunning in order 
 to move forward, and the characters will forcefully remind you what buttons you need to press and 
 where to find them.
  Mixed in are a bunch of awkward but well-made platforming sections which, although frustrating, 
 are a pleasant change to the senseless killing, especially later on.
  
  All in all, the gameplay is excellent, changing here and there to allow you to have a refreshing 
 change of both scenery and action.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  The graphics are excellent. Even a year on, looking back on them, they're still cutting edge, beaten 
 only by FEAR and some XBOX360 titles. Every single item, object, gun, character, wall, floor, building, 
 rock, everything is exceptionally well detailed, and lifelike, giving you the illusion that you're 
 walking through an actual world, not a virtual one. Everything in the game reacts to real-world 
 physics, from how they move, roll, their weight, distance they can be thrown, how they float in 
 water, the damage they taken when attacked, etc. Everything also reacts to the damage bullets cause, 
 either by causing holes, blowing up, breaking apart, or simply setting off a shower of sparks.
 
  
  All the characters react to the overwhelming power of Rag-Doll physics, that is, that they obey 
 real-life physics, and, when they die, instead of having death throes and animations, they simply 
 go limp, as if they were a rag doll. Hence the name. When an enemy dies, you can go over to lay 
 a few more bullets into it, or beat it with the crowbar, just for fun, and watch as the body reacts 
 to each blow realistically. Shoot a Combine soldier on a ledge, and they will fall helplessly to 
 the ground. Hit them at close-range with a shotgun, and they'll fly a few feet. Knock them into 
 water, and their body will float there, suspended by the water. Knock a burning barrel at them, 
 and they'll take off into the air, spiraling to the ground, landing with a sickening crunch.
  
  The facial features of each character are next to none, and all, even minor characters, are 
 fantastically detailed. Sometimes you see the same characters pop up now and again as random civilians, 
 but this is forgivable.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  The voice acting is excellent, each character's voice truly suits their image and demeanor. The 
 lip-syncing is remarkable, and is rarely inaccurate, if ever. Occasionally, two civilians will 
 talk back and forth in the same voice, which is confusing, but that, again, is forgivable.
  
  The sounds, everything from the gunshots to the pings of ricocheting bullets to the spinning 
 of the Manhack's razor-sharp blades sounds incredibly real. The music is also excellent, rising 
 at the right opportunities and really working you up to go and kick some alien ass.
  
  Presentation 8/10
  
  The HUD is very well presented, showing you your ammo, health, suit power, 
 auxiliary power, weapons etc. It has a nice fade-in fade-out effect when changing the values of 
 the ammo, health etc. All new instructions appears on screen, just to be handy, and you are frequently 
 told, by a nice lady, that you have suffered damage and you'd better heal yourself posthaste.
 
  
  The menus are all very well presented, showing the latest area in the background to remind you 
 of where you are in the game.
  
  Control 10/10
  
  As with all PC games, you can change about the controls until you're hearts content. Or, at least, 
 until you can control Gordon with the highest efficiency possible. There's the usual forward, backward, 
 strafe buttons, a sprint, use, jump button, as well as primary and secondary fire for your weapon, 
 flashlight, reload and zoom buttons. Not a lot by any degree, and if you have a handy-dandy wheel 
 mouse with five buttons, its even easier to use.
  
  Extra features 3/10
  
  Once you complete the game, there's nothing else to do. You can go back and play any of the various 
 chapters individually, but besides that, there's no extra levels, difficulty or games to unlock. 
 The only thing there is really is multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer is excellent, however, you will probably never have the opportunity to play it. Although 
 it isn't part of the game, and thus not worth mentioning, the game runs on a service known as Steam, 
 Valve's own anti-piracy software. The premise is genius: in order to play the game, the user must 
 connect to the internet with his or her serial number in order to download the files necessary. 
 This validates the game as well as allows the user to download updates for the game.
  
  However, every time you play the game, you must log on and download some updates. This is a great 
 pain for anyone just wanting to shoot some things, and it is even more annoying for people with 
 no internet, or who are still on 56K. Surely by buying a game, we should be allowed to play it 
 at any time? The service also regularly shuts down and doesn't work, meaning you can't play this 
 fantastic game for weeks on end.
  
  Thus, through this excruciating system, although well-meaning and badly implemented, you can very 
 rarely get a multiplayer game going. It's a shame really, since it really puts a damper on playing 
 so much that by the time you get the game running, you're too frustrated to actually have fun playing 
 it.
  
  Play Time 7/10
  
  The game isn't that long, clocking in at about 15 hours or so, which is very short when you play 
 it in three or four hour bursts to avoid having to go through Steam again. Still, that's 15 hours 
 of one of the best games available on any system.
  
  Replayability 7/10
  
  It's a great game and excellent to replay again, if only to see certain locales again. Using the 
 chapter selection, you can pick your favourite bits and replay them again, without having to trawl 
 through the whole game, until you're heart is content.
  
  Buy or rent? 10/10
  
  Buy. It's simply worth the purchase, since you can't play it any other way. Play it and love it 
 for what it is: an excellent game with a badly-designed interface.
  
  Steam problems aside, Half-Life 2 is a joy to behold. Its top-class graphics, sound, physics and 
 engine will be replicated for years to come on all platforms. Truly a benchmark in videogaming.
 
  
  Percentage: (The separate scores added together) 75%
  
  Gamespot score: (Not an average) 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Fast saving times
  - Respectful to its predecessor
  - Good graphics
  - Great animations
  - Great lighting (ambient and flashlight)
  - Solid First Person Shooter
 
  - Superb facial expressions and lip sync
  - Superb voice over, music and sounds effects
  - Superb physics
  
  What you may not like:
  - Very linear
  - Weak enemy AI
  - Weak NPC 
 AI (teammates) when inside buildings
  - Very easy enemies
  - Under developed story
  - Very easy last boss
  - Little character depth
  - Weak ending
  - Max resolution 1280x1024?
 
  - Where is the population?
  - Infinite spawns behind you (Cardinal sin)
  
  
  Story - "Thank God you're here Dr. Freeman"
  
  You may remember the original Half-Life and 
 how innovative the game was. It was the first one to really merge an FPS with an involving story.
 
  
  This time around, the story has been put aside a little to make more room to technological innovation, 
 leaving you with very little of a story to get a grip on. 
  
  Through out the game, you will be mostly asked to move from point A to point B each time with a 
 similar conclusion: "We're happy to see you, now try this (hands over a power up) ". There is little 
 sense of progressing in the story.
  
  The leader of the city, whom you are supposedly going after (not much emphasis is put on the reasons) 
 has little background information. Everyone tells you to go after him, so you kind of feel doing 
 a bit of everyone else's work.
  
  The bulk of the story will happen mostly during the last moments of the game and will make you 
 wonder if there was any real purpose to everything you did up to that point.
  
  Fortunately, the last segments are very good and will boost your overall appreciation of the story, 
 just like a boxer that steals a round in its very last seconds.
  
  
  Game - Awesome action: this is where HL2 shines
  
  Story put aside, the action is just pure 
 fun. 
  
  The weapons behave like you would like them to and are a blast to use. Not to mention the sound 
 track that kicks in which sounds very "Half-Life style" and is very invigorating.
  
  Also, the lighting is so well done that you really feel in control.
  
  Most of the weapons 
 are fun to use, but there is an innovative new tool to use, the Gravity Gun.
  
  Gravity Gun
  The "Gravity Gun" is the most unique tool/weapon that you will use. This tool allows 
 you to pick up and throw objects. On many occasions there will be some very easy puzzles in which 
 you will need to use it in order to move forward. It can also be used as a weapon to lift barrels 
 and the sort and throw them at your enemies.
  
  A special note about the gravity gun: near the end of the game, it will turn into a "super gravity 
 gun". It will allow you to pull heavier objects, like humanoids. Though this will be fun the first 
 few times, you will quickly notice how overpowered it actually is and may not find any enemies 
 challenging.
  
  It goes to say that the Gravity Gun really shows off the very realistic physics engine of the game.
 
  
  Vehicles
  There is extensive use of vehicles in HL2. You will be given an airboat to go over water and later 
 on, some kind of cart to go on ground. The actual feeling while driving is very realistic and you 
 generally have good control over them. The only downside at times is you get the feeling you need 
 to baby-sit your cart, as they are part of some puzzles.
  
  
  Enemies - Some worth mentioning
  
  Insects
  When walking over sand, insects will come out 
 (they look like smaller versions of the ones seen in "Starship Troopers") . Those come in an infinite 
 number so don't bother killing them all (but you're welcome to try!) . One good thing to know is 
 that later in the game you will get to control them with something familiar to a grenade. That 
 segment of the game is just _tons_ of fun. The critters will move and attack where ever you throw 
 your grenade at. If you squeeze it, they will follow you like little pets.
  
  Zombies
  The zombies found in Half-Life 2 may seem easy to kill at first glance because of their slow moving 
 speed, but if you don't respect them, they can actually take you down a lot quicker than any other 
 enemy found in the game. This is especially true in that one segment that could have been borrowed 
 from Silent Hill (another horror game) .
  
  There are also some Cumbine airships, Striders (that look like giant aliens with a turret) and 
 many Cumbine soldiers that behave like clones, considering their very poor combat skills and hollow 
 personalities.
  
  It is also worth mentioning that HL2 has some segments with infinite enemy respawns behind you 
 (Zombie town and the sands) which can be a bit aggravating before you actually figure this out. 
 This is an FPS no-no, but at least it doesn't happen too often.
  
  
  Conclusion  Technology over Story development? You decide.
  
  If you want to enjoy a solid 
 FPS with some great story moments you will _completely_ enjoy Half-Life 2. On the other hand, if 
 you are expecting a full story-driven game, you might be left hanging a little.
  
  Still, Half-Life 2 is among the firsts to incorporate such advanced physics, great graphics and 
 extremely well done facial expressions into PC games. 
  That alone raised the bar for future games to come and we can only be thankful for that.
  
 
  Score was increased based on the Orange Box value, which makes this game an even better deal for 
 your money, 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEAR_shooter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a Science fiction first person shooter and the sequal to the highly acclaimed Half-Life. 
 It was developed by Valve Software Corporation and was released on November 16, 2004, following 
 a protracted five-year development cycle during which the game's source code was linked to the 
 internet. The game garnered near unanimous positive reviews and recieved critical acclaim, winning 
 over 35 Game of the year awards for 2004. It was originally available only for Windows-based computers, 
 the game has since been ported onto the Xbox, PS3, and Xbox 360 video game consoles. Taking place 
 in and around the fictional 'City 17', Half life 2 follows the adventures of scientist Gordon Freeman. 
 Dr Freeman is thrusted into a dytopian environment in the aftermath of the Black Mesa Incident 
 has come to bear fully upon human society. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimsos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  For half-life and his sequel half-life 2 theres nothing that is going to win to them, once you 
 start playing you want to know more about why did the military guys and aliens and the other stuffs, 
 well can be called that ''best game of the year'' his gameplay makes him almost the best FPS that 
 i played and i still keep playing it and his mods too, characters very original and the form and 
 ideas for the aliens some original and someones that have been used for the most part and science 
 fiction movies, i did a short review because of that, it dont have defects its almost perfect im 
 thinking for sure that there will be a half-life 3 and more inspired episodes like half-life 2 
 episodes 1, 2 and 3. ah forgot to talk about the realistic it is maybe some games have better graphics 
 and are more real but in this case i see it different the people and his AI ( in half-life 2 of 
 course) and the other military and combines forces that you have to foght during the game. in the 
 difficulty i say that is just right well you can select it no? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life Two is such a deep game because of its storyline and tight controls. Half-Life Two may 
 seem very strange at the beginning of the game and uninteresting, but later on, you are in for 
 a deep and engaging game.
  
  The game is pretty nice when it comes to its visuals, the graphics are not too bad. Everything 
 is very detailed. Character expressions are well done.
  
  Sound is great because everything you come in contact with sounds wonderful, I have yet to have 
 a problem with the sound quality of Half-Life Two. The voice acting is some of the best for any 
 First-Person Shooter. I think Valve spent some time when it came to the great voice acting.
  
  The game will last you for a little while, it is a game with average length and you should 
 be kept busy with it because there are numerous easter eggs to be found.
  
  I apologize for the short review, I couldn't think of much to say about Half-Life Two because I 
 basically got everything I wanted to say in the first paragraph. If you are a fan of FPS's and 
 haven't tried Half-Life Two yet, do so ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mankyblobs
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 12, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Bitterly dissappointed with HL2. 
  
  Much has been said already about this game, and I'll agree with alot of it, which surprises even 
 me. Lets get to it, HL2 is a very well made, very well put together game that introduced some really 
 nice new ideas - i mean here the really high quality physics engine and a weapon to pick up and 
 throw well modelled objects. The graphics were lovely at the time and what was hugely impressive 
 was how well it ran on my awful PC (radeon 7000 graphics) when the game was released. The sound 
 in general was very good and the weapon sounds and voice acting were top notch. Standing alone, 
 I would give this game 8.8 or something with the minor grumble that it wasn't very replayable and 
 the human and ant lion squads could be quite annoying.
  
  The problem is I played the original half life and the expansions many times all the way through, 
 way back in 2002 when I found it in a bargain section of a local shop. I loved it, the weapons, 
 huge vast levels, interesting and clever enemies in all shapes and sizes, and a story that made 
 me feel witness to the worst accident in the history of mankind, who's chaos could claim me at 
 any time, pulping my corpse into gooey red lumps. When I loaded up and played through HL2 I expected 
 a game that would improve and expand on HL1 in all respects. Unfortunately that was totally not 
 the case, and in fact the new game felt totally unrelated to the old one.
  
  Just skimming through it, the graphics and sound are of course much much better. Technology moved 
 forward, these two things got alot better. Although I would say explosions just sound a little 
 dull in HL2.
  
  Enemies - nicely modelled and I really liked the combine radio chatter voices. But theres far less 
 variety of them than in the first game and their A. I. is actually NOT as good. 
  
  Weapons - Again, nicely modelled and the sound they make when used is very satissfying, especially 
 the SMG and combine plasma rifle. Unfortunately, both are pretty useless given that they're either 
 very weak (SMG) or ammo for them is thin on the ground (combine rifle) . But again, as for the enemies, 
 the variety of weapons is greatly diminished, and setting up traps for enemies and watching them 
 get blown to smithereens is now, without trip mines and satchel charges and the like, not possible.
 
  
  Levels - They're generally good except for the sewer level - it's my personal opinion here that 
 it's just plain boring - and everything inside the citadel - You swap ALL your weapons for just 
 ONE weapon. Even if it is a super gravity gun, not even having the option of using the guns the 
 combine troops drop when killed is just plain bizzare if not shockingly bad. Plus once inside the 
 citadel it's over all too quickly. In essence your just led through it as quickly as possible, 
 then whisked to the pent-house suite via escalator. What could have been the most interesting level 
 of the game, was anything but, and felt very 'arcadey' which I don't think suits Half Life very 
 well at all.
  I wont complain too much about HL2 being linear, as the first one was and I loved that one, but 
 I did feel that inside an underground base (HL1) thats very fitting, but out running around a city 
 and the coast (HL2) that does tend to stand out a little as just plain wrong.
  
  Up to entering the citadel on my first (and only) run through of HL2, these things were eating 
 at me a little. I was enjoying the game but not really being gripped by it. However once I completed 
 the game and realised I had learned nothing about the Gman whatsoever, and was no closer to wiping 
 his sorry a#ss out than I was after the first game, I was furious, and then bitterly, bitterly 
 dissappointed. I uninstalled the game shortly afterwards, and sold it. Never played it since. In 
 essence, what made the first game stand out was somehow made less good in the second, and it's 
 entire storyline was now just a side-show in the second. The combine, yeah interesting and original, 
 but what about the Gman? 
  
  The original's cliffhanger ending was more or less repeated at the end of it's successor (a guy 
 in a suit telling you the party's over, or rather his boss told him to tell you that anyway) . After 
 waiting since 2002 (for me, 1998 when the 1st game originally came out) the Gman question was not 
 answered AT ALL, in any way, shape or form, and you know what, it still isn't. EP3 will have to 
 cover more ground on this question in 8 hours or less gameplay, than has been covered in all of 
 HL2, EP1 and EP2 (and yes I've played the episodes aswell) . Some call HL2 more a cinematic experience 
 than a FPS, and I would agree, but it should have had some bearing on the events of the first game, 
 rather than just paying it lip-service with the very very short black-mesa east, and having the 
 Gman at the start and finish of the whole thing. For me that ruined it. 
  
  Without the original game having ever existed, I'd give HL2 an 8.5, but since that isn't the case 
 and I've got less bitter over the years, I'll give it 6.0 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIHanTime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  It was on a Wednesday back in November of 2004. 2am in the morning, Half-Life 2 was released. I 
 had everything pre-loaded and ready to go. At the very instant it was made available for activation, 
 I was already activating it. Then, I was playing Half-Life 2 for the first time and the jaw dropping, 
 literally, began at every corner.
  
  This game has every quality aspect that every game strives to get. Great graphics, sounds, animation (the 
 best ever) , story, game play, and mods.
  
  It is very difficult to describe the words that makes this game so great. The fact that you can 
 pretty much do anything you want in the game regarding the physics is fantastic. This game has 
 the most modifications than any other game out there, GOOD mods. I can't really get the correct 
 word to describe the game's awesomeness, so the only thing I can say is "scrumtrulescent".
  
  Half-Life 2 is very scrumtrulescent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Half Life two created by Valve software and predicessor to Half Life is one of the most revolutionary 
 games in history. One of the very first games to take, acting, sound, graphics, and game play into 
 the next generation. You once again play as the silent (but deadly) Gordon Freeman. He is out to 
 fix what he witnessed years ago at black mesa. He is earth's only hope to put a stop to the combine 
 invasion. Only he can make it happen. It's all up to you!
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game set a new path for games to come. Pushing the limits of the 
 hardware when it came out and taking the players into an almost realistic parishing metro. This 
 game taking much longer than the scheduled release date was well worth it. The game turned out 
 better than anyone could have expected. Definitly a mile marker in graphics that will be noted 
 in history.
  
  Sound: the sounds, and musics in the game make you feel as you are witnessing the end of the human 
 race and a world in chaos. The voice acting makes you discover bonds and concerns for all the players 
 in the game. It couldn't have been done much better by the legendary producer.
  
  Game play: The gameplay remained relatively close to Half Life. No new grounds were broken but 
 the gameplay remained fluid and eventful Leading from one antaginizing event to another. Forcing 
 you to use all the skills that you can muster to complete the game and fight the forces of the 
 combine. This game will keep you on the edge of your seat from beginning to end.
  
  Acting/Animation: Cut's scenes are amazing and frequent it keeps you up to date in the game and 
 make you feel as you are no longer in a game but in a movie. The acting and animation is amazingly 
 performed and produced in blends in perfectly with the game.
  
  Overall this is definitly one of the greatest games ever made. With many several more episodes 
 to follow this can easily be one of the greatest series ever. Many people will come to know and 
 love Gordon Freeman and his fight to save the human race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TotalSpot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Where all fps are just a a short flash of adrenalin, this game add an amazing game-play with a 
 very interesting plot (especially if you have played previous chapters of the saga) . The physics 
 is outstanding and it's implemented very well in the gameplay. The "gravity gun" demonstrate the 
 evolution of vg isn't just in their graphic or their powerful special effects. However, Half-life 
 2 is still good-looking and his graphic engine, the Source, has really low requirements. If you 
 have already played other fps, my advice is to play it to hard difficulty. 
  Half-life 2 Deathmatch isn't bad and it can still offer funny on line matches. Maybe it's a bit 
 repetitive in some points, but it's totally funny and immersing. In general, that game is a fantastic 
 deal especially if taken in the Orange Box so if you find it, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteamPipe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is simply one of the best games all year. Simply because of it's stunning graphics, 
 realitic physics, incredible facial animations, puzzle solving, solid action, and storytelling 
 not seen in most games these days. Unfortunately, it doesn't revolutionize the genre like it's 
 predecesor. It plays it safe and doesn't go far from the original formula used in Half life. Valve's 
 new source engine is stunning and provides highly realistic enviroments and characters. Half Life 
 2 also has it's multiplayer component which is Counter Strike Source. Counter Strike Source is 
 basically a remake of the original with new graphics and a built in physics engine. In conclusion 
 Half Life 2 is a incredible game that is a worthy succesor to Half Life. Hopefully we will see 
 a sequel soon. Valve states thatHalf Life 2.1 is in the works". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HL2Box
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game by far for the pc. The story line is very well made and very detailed 
 graphics. This game is a very clean game I haven't found a bug in this yet. This game also has 
 very real physics. It also has some cool weapons like, physics cannon, shotgun,9mm pistol, stuff 
 like that. This story does very well in making there own things like, combine, stalkers, stuff like 
 that. I think that you should get this game for the pc, and not only that, after you get it for 
 the pc you should also install smod and use the console. Without the console this game is not as 
 much fun after finishing the game. Smod adds new weapons and "Bullet Time" in other words slow 
 mo. In the console you can spawn people like, alyx, breen, zombies, and have a war with them. Now 
 If you are more willing to make things you should buy gmod 10 for this game. But only smod lets 
 you kill friend people like alyx and such. Half life 2 lets you do anything with the help with 
 smod gmod and the console . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxy456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Once again in Half Life 2 you assume the role of Gordon Freeman the man who helped stop the invasion 
 of aliens's in Half Life. Soon afther the myserious Gman tells Gordon to work for him in City 17 
 then Gordon meets up with Barney and Alyx and will save the world again. The plot of the game is 
 excellent and doesn't miss one thing from Half Life 1 and the graphics are awesome even 4 years 
 later. The gameplay is a great mixture of gunplay and puzzles don't think these puzzles are just 
 like switing on a swith oh no you're gonna use alot more stuff especially the Gravity gun you'll 
 face a number a foes including Zombies Combine soldiers , Police and so forth.
  Music is top noth and you'll hear everything perfectly. Value oh there's alot of time to play in 
 this. The CSS is agreat editon and makes up for the single player camapign but the campaign rocks. 
 If there's 1 thing i don't like about Haf life 2 is that it's like Halo 2's ending a cliffhanger 
 but put aside that and you got one killer game you should pick up if don't have it and if you can't 
 get the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 has to be one of the best games and engines ever created. I've really really really 
 been wanting a game that forces you to survive by slipping from building to building across the 
 city and all over. The story line is probably the best I've ever seen in a game. (And I've played 
 quite a few games) . The graphics are spectacular also. They don't have much of an explosives engine 
 going on, but who needs that? This is about as realistic as a game gets too. The AI isn't stupid 
 and tries shooting you through walls. Which is a good thing. Every time you get a new weapon you 
 just want to waste about 20 combines just to see physics kick in and throw them around. Now once 
 you've completed the game and want more of the engine to enjoy. You can simply buy of the many 
 other valve games that they've made with this engine. Including gary's mod which gives you full 
 customization on whatever you want. This is without doubt the best game to have been seen on PC 
 thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arbiter1237
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I realize this game is old. So this review old. Anyways Half-Life 2 is like something truley revolutionary. 
 Everything about this game is just about perfect. It's highly addicting and so much more. Its almost 
 perfect:
  
  Gameplay:9.5/10: Its a the classic keyboard/mouse combo that makes the controls feel just right. 
 Although they take some time to get use to.
  
  Graphics:10/10: When you sit down and play this game on a PC that can run it you will be blown 
 away, nuff said.
  
  sound/music:9.5/10: next next next next next generation audio. Music not so great.
  
  Value/replay 
 value: 9/10: Dont expect and ordinary pc to run this game perfectly. My PC can do this game at 
 high medium. But if you cash in for the right pc, you get a unbeliveable experiance. The replay 
 value is why it got a 9 here.
  
  Overall: If you have a PC that meets its requirements you have to get this game. If not become 
 a member of the Steam sevice and download HL2. You won't regret it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Houdini-
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  I have to say one of the coolest things about this, becides the shooting is the story, i got hooked 
 on it and i wanted to know what was going to happen. In half life 2 you continue the story of Gordon 
 Freeman after the black mesa insident, throughtout the levels you work alone or with Alyx, on foot 
 and in vehicles, you also get help from many rebles that are fighting the combine. Half life 2 
 is a game that every gamer should and must play, its been three years but im willing to write a 
 review for this game because i loved playing the story. Alot of shooters now day are good but the 
 story is just terrible, its great going through hard levels and fighting agaisnt next to impossible 
 odds and making it alive and arriving at a reble base with a warm welcome. 
  
  this is a must have for any FPS gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest shooters of all time. Arguably better than the first, arguably better 
 than any other before or after, and definitely my favorite first person shooter of all time.
  
  In 20 hours of corridor crawling, race car driving, RPG firing, gravity gun weilding, Half 
 Life 2 gives you the sense of moving through a lived in world. Your place in that world feels incidental 
 at first, but as the game progresses, and the story fleshes out, your role feels very important 
 in a world struggling to keep it's head above the water it's leaders would prefer to drown it in.
 
  
  Good storytelling will often take precedence over a good story. The story in HL2 was nothing new 
 then, it's certainly nothing new now, but the PRESENTATION of that story, and feeling it unfold 
 around you as you reach an objective, or overhear another bit of a conversation, is something FPS' 
 were always piss poor at offering. Even games with stronger premises failed to deliver on the presentation.
 
  
  Half Life 2 delivers! And how it delivers, is an experience every gamer should play through at 
 least once.
  
  As a compelling experience, Half Life is probably the most well conceived, fully realized games 
 ever to exist. The game was everything it was supposed to be, from a surrealistic intro to a post 
 apocalyptic society living in the catastrophe of what you partially created way back when, to the 
 graphitti on the walls, all of it are elements of a world that requires no exposition, no explanation. 
 
  
  You're thrown into it, and you're immersed in it!
  
  It's way late in the game to be writing about a game that came out over three years ago, but that 
 i was compelled to write about this game at all so long after is a tribute to it's greatness. This 
 was the game that convinced me to play games again, that convinced me that first person shooters 
 had the potential to not just have a good premise, but actually 'tell' a good story, and give me 
 a feeling of complete and total immersion in a world that i had to fight my way through. Which, 
 before, I always felt was the exclusive domain of RPG's.
  
  This is one of the greatest games ever made. It's well conceived and urges you to keep playing, 
 just to see how much this world has in it. I don't know if it's my favorite game of all time or 
 not, but I do know it was the most enjoyable experience I had playing a shooter, and as a game 
 on it's on merit alone, never drops the ball, and succeeds at what it was supposed to be.
  
  A man moving through a world long enough to realize just how bad he helped doom it, only to 
 realize along the way that it's his job to save it.
  
  It may not sound like a brilliant premise. But, my gosh, few games in the history of games sell 
 their premise better than Half Life 2, and certainly no shooter ever had before, and no shooter 
 since has yet to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life canon dictates that Gordon Freeman either agreed or was not given a real option with 
 respect to the G-Man's offer. Half-Life 2 picks up the story with the G-Man taking Freeman out 
 of stasis and inserting him on a train en-route to City 17 an indeterminate number of years after 
 the Black Mesa Incident. Official sources differ on the actual length of this intermission-a story 
 fragment written by author Marc Laidlaw for the development team puts the intermission at 10 years, 
 while Half-Life 2: Episode One's Web site puts this intermission as "nearly two decades" after 
 the end of the events of Half-Life.
  At the start of the game, the G-Man speaks to Gordon Freeman as part of a hallucination-like vision 
 as he is pulled out of stasis. The world has been overtaken by the Combine forces. Gordon meets 
 up with Barney Calhoun and sets out for Doctor Isaac Kleiner's lab while being chased by Civil 
 Protection. Gordon eventually meets Alyx Vance and is taken to Doctor Kleiner's lab. At the lab, 
 an attempt to teleport Alyx to Black Mesa East works, but the teleporter fails for Gordon due to 
 interference by Kleiner's pet head crab Lamarr and alerts the Combine of Gordon's arrival in City 
 17 after being teleported to Dr. Breen's office twice. Barney instructs Gordon to take the city's 
 canals to get to the lab of Alyx's father, Dr. Eli Vance.
  While navigating through the city's canals, Gordon is chased by the Combine on foot until being 
 supplied with an air boat at a rebel outpost; by this point it is becoming increasingly obvious 
 that Gordon has a heroic, almost messianic reputation with the rebels and outlaws. However, the 
 air boat is soon spotted by the Combine and pursued by a hunter-chopper assault helicopter. Using 
 a salvaged Overwatch hunter-chopper turret, Gordon manages to take down the pursuing helicopter. 
 He arrives at Black Mesa East and meets Doctor Eli Vance and Doctor Judith Mossman, also rejoining 
 Alyx. Alyx gives him a tool originally developed for handling hazardous or heavy materials called 
 the Zero-Point Energy Field Manipulator (also known as the gravity gun) and instructs Gordon on 
 its use while also introducing Dog, her giant "pet" robot. The lab is attacked by the Combine, 
 forcing Gordon to escape along an old tunnel leading to Ravenholm. 
  
  A Combine shelling caused Ravenholm to be overrun with headcrabs and zombies, making Father Grigori 
 the last human resident. Grigori helps Gordon through Ravenholm and ultimately leads him to the 
 dockyards outside City 17. Freeman is alerted by Alyx via radio that Eli has been captured and 
 is being held in Nova Prospekt.] Freeman travels to Nova Prospekt in a dune buggy, helping to down 
 a Combine gunship after meeting Colonel Odessa Cubbage at another resistance base; Cubbage gives 
 him an RPG launcher. The journey is made more difficult due to Antlions and an Antlion Guard. A 
 vortigaunt extracts a pheropod from the Antlion Guard's carcass and gives it to Gordon, allowing 
 him to command the Antlions, though not their Antlion Guard masters. 
  At Nova Prospekt, Freeman searches for Eli. Alyx joins with Gordon again, and together they find 
 both Eli and Doctor Judith Mossman (now discovered to be a Combine spy) . Mossman creates a distraction 
 and teleports herself and Eli into the Citadel, while Gordon and Alyx teleport themselves to Doctor 
 Kleiner's lab. A malfunction in the equipment causes a huge explosion, and they arrive at Doctor 
 Kleiner's lab more than a week after they teleported. During this lost week, the explosion is taken 
 as a signal to start the resistance, which has considerably strengthened, turning City 17 into 
 a warzone. Gordon leads fighters towards the Citadel to free Doctor Vance while Alyx helps Doctor 
 Kleiner escape the lab. Later, Alyx briefly rejoins and accompanies Gordon in a battle to disable 
 a Combine power generator, but she is subsequently captured by Combine forces. After reaching Barney, 
 Gordon shuts down a suppression device blocking access to the Citadel and brings down a pack of 
 Striders. 
  
  Gordon enters the Citadel through an underground passage. All of his weapons are destroyed by a 
 "confiscation field", except for the gravity gun. The field instead strengthens the gravity gun, 
 and using this Gordon wreaks havoc upon the Citadel. Freeman enters a containment apparatus, which 
 brings him face-to-face with Doctor Breen. Doctor Judith Mossman is with Breen, and he summons 
 Eli and Alyx, who are being held in similar devices. During the confrontation, Breen remarks that 
 Freeman's services are "open to the highest bidder." As Breen threatens the Vances, Judith finally 
 turns against him. Breen manages to escape to a "Dark Energy Reactor" at the top of the Citadel 
 with the intent of teleporting himself away from Earth. Gordon and Alyx pursue him, and Gordon 
 destroys the reactor, both to depower the Citadel and to prevent Breen's escape. This triggers 
 a massive explosion in which Alyx and Gordon are imperiled. However, at the moment the reactor 
 explodes, time stops. The G-Man emerges, commenting on Gordon's successful endeavors, before placing 
 Gordon back into stasis, and leaving through a door of pure light. The game ends exactly as it 
 began, in darkness. The story continues from this point in Half-Life 2: Episode One.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  This time around, I'll skip the personal life story, and get straight to the review, since it is 
 slightly lengthy, and also constitutes my highest rating I've ever given a game.
  
  Let us begin with the graphics. Aesthetics are always the easiest to get out of the way first. 
 To make things simple, this game is absolutely breath-taking. The game, even now with games like 
 Crysis out, the game stands out as being a beautiful game. Every environment is intricately detailed, 
 to the point of having propoganda posters and grafitti in appropriate locations that actually have 
 a meaning. You will find that destroyed buildings have been cut and shaped to be in a very specific 
 shape, and the game is extremely immersive as a result of this. The character models are also well 
 done, and though there are some repeated models, you will not have quite as much of a problem of 
 repeated models as you did in the original Half-Life. Each of the creatures is also very well made. 
 This game was made with such a great attention to detail, that you will oftentimes you will find 
 yourself stopping to check things out.
  
  As for the sound, well the game excels there as well. The sound effects are wonderfully made, with 
 the guns sounding perfectly, and the creatures sounding wondefully frightful and not to mention 
 some pretty nice ambience too. The voice acting in the game is great as well, and Valve could not 
 have chosen a better cast for the game, from the alien-ish G-Man to the very sincere Alyx, the 
 talking in the game is absolutely great. It only gets better though, thanks to a wonderfully composed 
 musical score, that is just as good as, if not better than the musical score in Half-Life. All 
 of the music seems to fit the mood perfectly and the beats are very easy on the ears while still 
 being adrenaline pumping. This is one game where you will want to have your 5.1 surround sound 
 pumped up and your sub shaking the whole house.
  
  The game looks and sounds great, but that is not what makes this game. It is the gameplay. Oftentimes 
 you have games that have a try at variety and don't do as well as they could (Quake IV for example) 
 and at other times you have games that don't even give an attempt (Doom 3 for example) , and then 
 you have those games that are somewhere in the middle that do just the right amount of variety 
 and do it right. That's Half-Life 2. The game is first and foremost, a first-person shooter, but 
 there are two vehicle scenes in the game that are reasonably lengthy and are very fun. It is hard 
 to put vehicels into a game because it requires that a whole new set of physics rules be created 
 and a whole new type of gameplay, but thanks to the Havok engine the game gets the job done nearly 
 perfectly. There are some hitches where the vehicle will jump in strange ways and bounce in strange 
 ways, but I guess the Havok engine was a little TOO good for its own good. As for the meat of the 
 game, the FPS parts, they are exceptional. HL2 takes the gameplay style from HL1, of having interesting 
 and creative puzzles set in somewhat natural ways between combat sequences. This works beautifully 
 due to a new weapon and gameplay mechanic: the Gravity Gun.
  
  The gravity gun functions simply enough, one button picks up objects generally no larger than wooden 
 crates, and another one launches these objects a distance. The joy of this is that oftentimes you 
 can use your environment as a weapon, picking up cardboard planks, sinks, metal barrells and other 
 objects and merely launching them at enemies at a high enough velocity to kill them. Though there 
 is a pretty good variety of weapons (most returning from HL1, being the human based weapons, except 
 in a newer fashion, with the exception of the new Combine Pulse Cannon and the Pherapod, both of 
 which are AWESOME weapons) , the pure fun of using the gravity gun will likely result in the player 
 relying on that for a good amount of time. It is also much more satisfying to use the gravity gun 
 because when aiming, actual physics and gravity must be taken into account. My one complaint about 
 the weapons is that there aren't any fun alien weapons like in HL1, but once you get into the story 
 it actually makes sense why this is the case, and between the Gravity Gun, Pulse Cannon and Pherapod 
 (which basically lets you control an army of antlions, more I will not say for fear of spoiling 
 the fun) , this minor setback is forgivable.
  
  So with the gravity gun thrown into the picture, the puzzles get a little more interesting, causing 
 them to be relatively fresh still, yet familiar at the same time. The combat is great as well, 
 with multiple boss battles integrated into the game that are each very fun and very exciting. Speaking 
 of combat, now would be a good time to mention the enemies. There is a good enemy variety here, 
 with new types of zombies and headcrabs, and the antlions being thrown into the mix. The Combine 
 soldiers are the spiritual successor to the marines from HL1, except with a better AI than before. 
 There are other creatures and enemies but I will not spoil it, I will just say that they are well 
 made, and each must be combated a different way, thus adding variety in gameplay.
  
  The story itself is far more fascinating than HL1, and actually exposes HL1 as being quite a bit 
 more complex than it seemed. At first, the game throws you in quite a bit after HL1, with a very 
 large unexplained gap in the timeline, but with a little bit of searching and some time, the story 
 unfolds beautifully. This is one of those games that unfolds like in reality, you will not have 
 every clue handed to you on a silver platter. If you want to know what is going on, you have to 
 put out the effort, if not, than you can just merely move on for the gameplay. This is a wonderful 
 way to convey the story, which involves a rich experience for people seeking the story, and an 
 easy way to avoid it for those people who just want the action.
  
  As a note, the game controls like any FPS, which is how it should be, and is appropriately customizable. 
 It is also important to note that the HUD is clutter free, and therefore delivers a much more immersive 
 experience.
  
  Moving on, let's get to the wonderful multiplayer package. As Half-Life 2: Deathmatch stands by 
 itself, it is a mediocre multiplayer game. It is fun because of the gravity gun mechanics, but 
 is essentially a very derivative game, with just standard Deathmatch. It therefore might get old 
 fast for some (never did for me) . The main draw here is how easy it is to mod for the game, and 
 how intricate the modding software actually is. Because of this, there are countless numbers of 
 mods that are readily available at this point that vary from offering a classic Goldeneye experience, 
 to having a stealth-type game, to having an RTS-style game. The mods make HL2DM a very long lasting 
 game, and the nicely integrated voice chat function is a definate plus. If that weren't enough, 
 the included Counter-Strike: Source adds another choice for the player, for those that enjoy tactical-action. 
 It is a faithful Source recreation of CS with a few interesting twists, that ultimately make a 
 well-rounded multiplayer experience.
  
  What this essentially means is that even after you beat the game's campaign (which is fairly lengthy, 
 clocking in at about 20 hours for my first playthrough) , with the wonderful choices that multiplayer 
 offers, you will likely find yourself playing this game for months to come, if not years (I've 
 played since release, and still do) .
  
  Hats off to Valve, for making a game so wonderfully fun, so fabulously artful and so absolutely 
 immersive, that I was compelled to give it a perfect 10. This doesn't happen often, so take that 
 as a hint. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Value: 10/10
  
  OVERALL: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGrave
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I think it's safe to say that everyone who is a fan of First-Person Shooters should own this game. 
 Its great use of physics creates an interactive experience for gamers that sets it apart from other 
 games of its kind. You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist who attempts to stop the world from 
 an alien invasion. I've never played the original Half Life, but I think it's safe to say that 
 the story in HL2 is very difficult to follow, and anyone who is not willing to observe every single 
 detail they had missed will probably not understand it. This being said, the story in Half Life 
 2 can be very lackluster, which does drag the thrill of the game down a bit. Nevertheless, the 
 enjoyable experience it makes for gamers more than makes up for its flaws.
  
  As stated before, the physics that Half Life 2 has to offer will show gamers a new experience that 
 they haven't had in many other games before: environmental interactivity. For example, when I hit 
 a wooden shelf with a crowbar, I want it to break. Half Life 2 demonstrates just that. In fact, 
 one of its most important weapons, the Gravity Gun, focuses solely on this factor of the game, 
 and it will be useful for many things you come across. While you aren't busy engaging in an intense 
 battle of non-stop action, you will often find many mind-challenging situations you run across. 
 Some of these may be as simple as moving cement blocks off an object, while others may take some 
 time to figure out. There are many of these puzzles that are more obvious than others, but they 
 create an inviting experience that you probably haven't had with any game other than the Half Life 
 series.
  
  Like many other shooting games, you won't always be on foot shooting up enemies. In a point of 
 the campaign (one that you will reach rather quickly) , you have the opportunity to travel in a 
 boat. This will be very useful and is necessary by all means for you to make it any further in 
 the game. Due to the game's open environment, it makes traveling in vehicles more fun than you 
 could ever imagine would be possible in a video game. This is a good thing, because you will be 
 traveling in this boat for quite a while if you decide to take advantage of the area you are around. 
 You can travel to areas that you don't need to, but the areas you do decide to opt-in on usually 
 give you somewhat of a rewarding compromise. This makes the game even more enjoyable to explore, 
 and makes the game feel much less linear. There are many more twists and turns you will encounter 
 in Half Life 2. For example, there are bugs that will appear from sand in one point in the game 
 that attack you, and so many will appear that it will make death almost inevitable if you don't 
 comply to what are you instructed to do. However, you eventually get "Bug Bait" in the game, that 
 will attract the bugs to you, and they will fight enemies for you, which definitely helps in certain 
 situations of the game. Another example is a Gravity Gun and suit upgrade you get towards the end 
 of the game, which is very useful, considering you lose nearly all your weapons towards that point. 
 With the Gravity Gun upgrade, you can move all the objects you could previously move before, along 
 with heavier ones that you could not. In addition to this, you can pick up enemies and incinerate 
 them simply by left clicking.
  
  There will also be other instances in your adventure through Half Life 2 that require lots of teamwork. 
 And while your enemy AI is for the most part good, your team AI is what struggles you to get through 
 a mission as quickly as you should be able to. You will often find your teammates in the way of 
 where you are trying to go, which can be annoying, especially in a situation where you have to 
 move quickly, as to get away from a grenade or anything of the sort. However, this doesn't mean 
 that your teammates will be useless, by any means, as there are many parts of the game where you 
 will have so many enemies rushing towards you that it is absolutely necessary to have some help.
 
  
  If you are a big fan of graphics, then you will find Half Life 2 an absolutely remarkable game. 
 Though it was made a while ago and is beginning to show it's age, it still looks stunning. You 
 will often find yourself in amazement by the incredibly detailed environments and character models. 
 For it's time, this was probably the best looking game out there, and it remained that way for 
 a while. Not only this, but it sounds great as well, as music will usually present itself at the 
 right moment, and explosions and gunshots usually sound great as well. Even though there are better 
 looking games now, that doesn't mean this game still doesn't look amazing. However, the graphical 
 intensity that the game has does present consequences to some. While you will most likely get a 
 great framerate on most computers that have half-way decent video cards, loading times can be rather 
 bothersome. The game itself doesn't take too long to load, but there are rather frequent areas 
 in the game that have to load separately. With a high-end PC with the right amount of memory, this 
 should not take more than a few seconds. Still, it does detract from the gameplay somewhat. Another 
 thing to note about Half Life 2, is that it's not the most challenging game I have ever played. 
 However, you will still run into some very difficult situations. Like I stated before, you will 
 have to use a lot of thinking in certain areas of the game, in order to find out how you get to 
 a certain place. The campaign took me roughly 21 hours, then again, it took me an awful long while 
 to figure out what to do at certain areas. For most players, it should take between 14 and 20 hours. 
 If you enjoyed the campaign as much as I did, you will probably find yourself playing it a second 
 time, though on a different difficulty level to make the game more challenging, or you will at 
 least replay certain chapters of the game. And when you feel you are truly done with playing the 
 campaign, the Deathmatch game that's bundled with it has multi-player that can be entertaining.
 
  
  While HL2: Deathmatch isn't nearly as enjoyable as Counter Strike: Source, it still presents itself 
 well. The deathmatch mode is rather mindless, you simply choose a server and try to kill as many 
 people as possible. The only other mode available for online play is Team Deathmatch, which is 
 basically the same thing, but is not as mindless due to the fact that you are working cooperatively 
 with certain people to kill the other team. Fun as it may be, especially considering weapons such 
 as the Gravity Gun, it does get repetitive after a while, which is where the vast amount of mods 
 come in. There is an amazing variety of user-created modifications to choose from, which will make 
 you realize just how long Half Life 2 will last you, and you undoubtedly will be trying out the 
 different mods for a long while.
  
  If you are a fan of FPS games, or even only a casual FPS player, Half Life 2 is a game that will 
 offer an incredible experience that will be well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0VAWLIMIT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game was hailed as a revolution during its development, and upon its release... well, it was 
 still hailed as a great game, but the game itself was not quite a revolution. With its amazing 
 physics engine (more commonly seen today than it was back then) , Half-Life 2 was worth buying just 
 to be able to play with the gravity gun and make things go flying and bouncing around, and breaking 
 stuff. The realistic character faces were also pretty amazing. So, graphically and technically, 
 the game is brilliant. But what about the actual gameplay and the story? Well, yes... but to a 
 slightly lesser extent. The gameplay is certainly fun, with a wide variety of weapons and ways 
 to kill your enemies, and some vehicle sections, but the enemies and situations aren't quite as 
 varied as they were in the original Half-Life, and I actually think many of the new characters 
 detract from the overall atmosphere of the game. The storyline is an undoubtedly dark one, yet 
 all of the characters seem strangely happy and optimistic, even if they're trapped in a Combine 
 concentration camp or being shelled by headcrab bombs that can turn them into zombies. One particular 
 character really annoyed the hell out of me. Still, that said, the atmosphere of the game isn't 
 totally ruined, and with its fantastic graphics engine, a few areas really suck you right in (the 
 underside of the bridge was always one of my favorites) , and the combine, while not offering as 
 much variety as the aliens of HL1, are quite a mysterious and fearsome enemy. By the end of the 
 campaign, you'll certainly have had an enjoyable FPS experience, if not quite as good as its predecessor. 
 And then you can enjoy the downloadable content and moddability that the game offers as well... 
 if you can stand the highly-annoying program Valve forces you to use called Steam. One game per 
 computer instead of per household, with no way around it? Check. Mandatory download of updates 
 before playing, every single time, even if your Internet connection is terribly slow? Check. Ridiculous 
 load time as Steam "prepares to launch the game," with no indication of what it's actually doing? 
 Check... I swear, if the game wasn't so good, I would never have had the patience to put up with 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel to Half Life is out in the form of, you guessed it, Half Life 2 and MAN 
 did valve deliver. This has to be one of THE most engaging, fun, ambitious games to come out in 
 a while. Now I won't spoil the story, because it is a pretty good solid plot. The graphics are 
 very well done and look good on any pc that can run this game. The gameplay is where this game 
 shines, the gravity gun is super fun, you can pull things and push things with the gravity gun 
 killing your enemies or helping you solve a puzzle. I seriously doubt anyone who fell in love with 
 the original Half Life will be disappointed with Half Life 2, this game is almost perfect. Sure 
 it has it's mini bugs (I haven't encountered any, but it's bound to have some) , but what game doesn't? 
 Overall, this game is a MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSeXtreme
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is just amazing i love the movement and the way its played!
  
  Story: Quite amazing! Super improved! Cant believe this is 10 times better than the original one! 
 Seriously you have to be a dumbass to hate it!
  
  Graphics: 10/10, cmon, you can have awsome graphics with only 32 MB on video??? Well in here you 
 can! Valve did a great job on this and i think this seriously deserves a 10 out of 10 for it! Even 
 if u have an old computer you can enjoy Half-Life 2 as anyone can!
  
  
  This is one of the best FPS on existence! A game to add to the collection of the best of the best 
 FPS of all the times!
  
  I just bought this game and its soo cool, i dont like the ending too much but i seriously love 
 the gameplay!!! I can play it 300 times and never get bored or it!
  That makes this an awsome FPS!
  
  As Doom, Halo, Quake, Unreal Tournament, this game its a 
 SUPER GOOD GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  First impression, WOW. Second impression, WOW. my word i havent played a game like that since the 
 first Half-Life... Steam aside, Half-Life 2 is an amazing experience... The production quality 
 of that game is truely ground breaking... The amount of time spent on developement shows with the 
 quality of the final product. Every sequence is breathe taking and i feel that it truely deserves 
 all the honours given to it. here is the review of the game that wrote and reflects my feelings 
 very well :
  
  Six years after the masterpiece which was Half-life, mankind once again finds itself at the feet 
 of yet another masterpiece of the art form. 2004 is without a doubt the year of the gamer. From 
 splinter Cell 2 to Doom 3 to Sims 2, this year will go down in history as the year of the sequel. 
 I am now honored to introduce not only the sequel of the greatest game ever made but a game that 
 has restored our hope in the quality of sequels.
  
  It is a very well know fact that sequels are usually of a much lower caliber of it predecessor. 
 Luckily, the guys at Valve haven't read the script and have gone out and created an epic. Unlike 
 the first Half-life, Half-life 2 (HL2) is broken down into different chapters, which then allow 
 the player (after completing the chapter) to replay any of the chapters at a later stage. 
  
  HL2 starts with the infamous G-man introducing your new home. The opening chapter breathes 
 life into a story that has being sleeping for six years and introduces a world that pictures can 
 not describe. The level of detail in the scenes is breath taking and the new source engine renders 
 ever scene with easy and amazing beauty. Doom 3 may have a great engine but nothing can compare 
 to the power of Valve's source engine.
  
  After a tour of City 17's train station and a brief reintroduction to Barney, an ex security officer 
 from black mesa, you are thrown into the thick of thinks, you get introduced to some new characters 
 and start the struggle against the oppressive regime of the combine. You then impark on an amazing 
 journey through City 17 and the surrounding area and team up with allies to overturn the Combine. 
 
  
  Even thought HL2 has been six years in the making and drama the gaming community went through over 
 the last year, HL2's story is slightly thin and asks more questions that it answers. Hl2 seems 
 to be setting up something remarkable maybe a Half-life 3?
  
  Amazingly HL2 is only half the story. Counter-Strike source (CS S) is included with every copy 
 of HL2 and is truly a worth sequel to the award-winning Counter-strike. CS S is a stand alone game 
 that allows two groups of players to go head to head for supremacy. CS S is made of the stuff that 
 legends are made of (namely Half-life 2) . Overall, HL2 is a must buy and the inclusion of CS S 
 tips the scales heavily in its favor.
  
  Amazingly there is one draw back to this lethal combination, its activation! Valve has decided 
 to use Steam, a distribution method that allows owners of software made by Valve to play their 
 games any where there is an internet connect. To install HL2 and CS S you must first create a Steam 
 account (Steam is included with HL2) and then proceed to decrypt the HL2 and CS S files. Assuming 
 that you don't live in the state, Europe or the Far East, you will have a problem. The process 
 is long and many people have encountered problems with their Steam accounts. You have been warned!
 
  
  Other than this one draw back, Half-Life 2 is an amazing experience and truly deserves the many 
 awards that have been bestowed upon it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Rise and shine mister Freeman.... rise and shine....... YEAH! It's about damn time!
  Our little silent friend was sleeping for 6 years, and through all this time travel, he still hadn't 
 lost his skills.
  The game continues exactly where the first left, you wake up by our old friend: G-Man, who says some 
 mysterious crap, and suddenly, you're on a train, heading to a mysterious city named City 17, in the 
 city you see strange guards, known as the combine, and shortly after your arrival, your old friend 
 Barnie from Black Mesa meets you, and explains the situation, even more shortly after, you meet Alyx 
 Vance, a smart and cute girl, and with her, you need to save humanity... once again.
  Graphics - 10
  SIMPLY astonishing! Probably one of the greatest engines ever made, PERIOD!
  The 
 textures look amazing and realistic, the reflection and lightning effects are great, and the water 
 effect are really a masterpiece. The characters look great, and the expressions are almost, if not 
 completely real-life-like. The effects also look mindblowing. The physics are simply, in one word, unbelievable, everything 
 acts the way it should in real life, and that is an excellent addon to the graphics and the game.
 
  And don't to forget we're talking about a 2004 game here, yet this game still surpasses some games 
 in those years, and always keeps evolving.
  Audio - 10
  The music is really putting the player into the rich atmosphere of the game, the techno style music 
 really suits the game perfectly. The audio effects are also great and sound like they should.
  But probably the best aspect from the audio part is the voice overs, they are AMAZING, one of the 
 best voice acting I've seen so far, you won't hear a mistake or a break in the acting, and the voices 
 suit the characters perfectly.
  Gameplay - 9
  The story continues the first game, though it's not very well build in my opinion, it has some disappointments, though 
 it's not bad, It's just OK...
  The gameplay in this game is insanely fun and exciting, the music and the gameplay is a great fusion 
 to create a fun, fast Ecstasy that last about 10 minutes, because after that, a Loading screen pops 
 and ruins all of it, and leaves you waiting.. in silence... alone.... like a lonely pickle...
  Aside from that, the game is pure, smart, shoot 'em up, but in a good way, with some puzzles along the 
 way to keep your brain from rotting. Also, the game DOES have something special, because the physics 
 are so good, or perhaps the physics were created, for one amazing thing: The Zero-Point Energy Field 
 Manipulator....... Holy Shifting Crabs, no way I'm saying THAT again, my fingers will bleed... let's 
 just use the word Gravity Gun, or even G-gun.
  The G-gun is the cherry in the pie, the ability to manipulate the awesome physics into a deadly 
 weapon is an insanly fun idea, the fact that you can throw WASHING machines into enemies and watch 
 them fly in a funny way is always a treat. There's even a special level that gives you all the fun 
 you want with the G-gun. And that makes the game feels fresh and new.
  Also, there's a lot of weapons in this game, and this is a good thing in my opinion, and even some 
 of them are pretty kinky.
  Value - 10
  The campaign is pretty long, and it's so fun that you might even start it again in order to enjoy 
 the G-gun more.
  The multiplayer is always a treat, and it's fun to shoot other players in the face, though it's not 
 revolutionary, it's fun in it's own way.
  Overall: HL2 does what HL did best, and even above it, and that's enough to make it a must have for 
 PC players, even if the story is not as great as hoped it would be.
  P. S This is a new review, the old one was deleted because back then I just started the game and 
 was overhyped, and therefore gave it such a perfect score, and such a poor review, so this is a fresh, new, TRUE 
 review ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatr1990
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
 Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! Best Ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Well, I've got to say, for a guy who's not much of a fan of the Sci-Fi shooter genre, this was 
 an amazing game. The graphics? Flawless. The multi-player? Insane and fast-paced. My blood pressure? 
 Through the roof when I got my A$$ whooped. This game is a real blast, and the gameplay is extremely 
 rewarding. The enviornments are about 95% interactive, with an almost limitless supply of objects 
 you can hurl at your opponents with the gravity gun. The AI? Depending on how well you play this 
 game, is either elementary or impossible. I personally found it easier to play online. But that's 
 just me. Let me just give you a good/bad breakdown here:
  
  
  The Good:
  -The graphics are good, so good in fact, if they could cook, I'd marry them.
  -The gameplay can 
 be insanely fast paced online.
  -The storyline, voice acting, and animations are excellent.
  -Almost fully interactive enviornments.
 
  -Great multiplayer (that IS the best feature here) .
  
  The Bad:
  -If you don't have a nice 'rig' (computer, for all you 'noobs') , then you take a hit in the performance 
 and graphics department (I myself had to lower some settings, and I installed it on another computer 
 just to see the pretty graphical settings) .
  -The AI can either be brittle and easily broken, or like a boot to the crotch: painful and uncalled 
 for.
  -The multiplayer can lag quite a bit if you have slower internet and have the graphics settings 
 too high.
  -A PAIN IN THE A-Double dollar sign TO INSTALL! DEATH TO STEAM!
  (you can't install the game unless you install steam, a useless piece of trash application that 
 only takes up space. You MUST launch your game through Steam, thanks to the guys at Valve being 
 total dicks) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This post-apocalyptic sci-fi shooter picks up 20 or so years where the original award-winning Half-Life 
 left us. Gordon Freeman, the nerdy physicist, has been summoned once more by the creepy "G-Man" 
 to rid City 17 (dictated by the authoritarian Dr Breen) of the Combine's rule.
  
  This wonderful sequel offers an innovative and breathaking physics engine coupled with the techno 
 musical score and viually stunning graphics. If once upon a time you were afraid of playing this 
 beast, 2007 is a great years to invest in some old vid cards and lay waste to those combine scum. 
 The graphics are still amazing. 
  
  The storyline places you, as Freeman, in many different settings including some beaches, factories, 
 and the combine citadel itself, with an arsenal of explosives and weapons at your disposal. 
  
  The animation is impressive. Alyx's jumping on top of combine structures and scaffolding, or 
 simple leaping off stair well rails impresses me, as a Games Graphics Designer, and at the very 
 least aspires someone of my profession to keep designing games. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is a wonderfully structured piece of entertainment and offers the customer a different, 
 engaging, and realistic environment to harness their violent persona and reck havoc in C17. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claudyu1991
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:   game is the best ever made. When I've started to play it...... it 
 just made my day. Since then (this year in february) , I finished the game 7 times and I'm still excited 
 playing it. Even now, HL 2 is overtaking a lot of new games at game-play and maybe at graphics. How 
 do I start?
  
  The game-play is the best, you feel the joy of killing a zombie or headcrab with the Gravity Gun 
 ,handling a cask of fuel or a spiked wheel (I don't know how it's called but is a thing that cuts 
 the woods) or another useful thing around you. The most challenging enemy were the Strider and the 
 "mutant helicopter". The guns are very nice and accurate, you handle them easy. There is a peculiar 
 weapon : the modifyied bow with sniper scope that reminds me about Painkiller with that weapon 
 with wooden stakes, when you stuck the enemy on wall...... NICEEEEEEEEE!!!. And the Python .357, mannnnnn, you 
 blow up your enemy's brain. The Gravity Gun is the sweet from cake ,is the best weapon and it's 
 so fucking funny. You can do almost anything with it.
  
  The storyline is very good : "Gordon Freeman Rules!" and also the sounds.
  
  The graphics are 
 very very very good (for that age were gorgeous and even now) .
  
  It's a game that anyone must have in their collection and I recommend it to everyone .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Whats great about Half-Life 2 is its slick fun gameplay, great graphics, story, and sounds. What 
 you'll be doing mostly in the game is kill enemies or if not, solve puzzles. The thing great about 
 the puzzles is you can only solve it is by using the games physics. Enemy AI in the game is not 
 really that great although they're still quite smart. The game is quite easy although you'll still 
 die a dozens of times in the game unless your really that good. Half-Life 2's graphics is impressive 
 and yet the games requirements are quite low which makes the game even better. The physics in the 
 game are the best part of Half-Life 2. For example, if you throw a saw blade into a enemy using 
 the gravity can, that enemy will get sliced into two pieces but the effects only work against zombies. 
 The games sounds are even better than the gameplay or graphics. The music is also good except you 
 won't hear any music that much except during a couple of events. The games problem for the PC is 
 that you require an internet in order to play it and whats worst is you keep getting endless updates 
 which doesn't seem to do even a single thing to the game. For better or worst, the updates can 
 even take up to hours to finish unless you have a fast internet connection.
  
  If you have everything needed to play Half-Life 2, you should buy it as you don't want to miss 
 the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutter9792
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  If anyone who is reading this review hasn't played Half-Life 2, or its predecessor, I just have 
 one thing to ask you.
  WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU WAITING FOR???
  Seriously. HL2 is one of those memorable experiences that will stick with you until you pass or 
 get kidnapped by killer monkeys and they wipe your memories and remove your fun parts (i couldn't 
 think of anything else to put) . HL2 set the benchmark for games to come. Not only that, but it 
 rejuvenated a genre filled with WWII games, military shooters, and (sorry haters) Halo. It made 
 people a little more open to new concepts, like the brilliant use of physics (G-GUN forever!!!) 
 and how the story in a game can be worth reliving over and over again. It is and forever will be 
 one of the greatest games of all time. Buy a copy.
  Hell, buy two.
  
  --Cutter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  In Half-Life 2, Gordon has accepted the G-Man's "offer" and become a government agent on Earth. 
 However, the Xen aliens, Combine soldiers, headcrabs, "ant lions," and other enemies threaten everything.
 
  
  Gordon begins his quest in City 17 and, with the help of Eli and Alyx Vance, begins to unravel 
 the mysteries behind the rapid changes on Earth. Freeman also encounters gigantic spider-like monstrosities 
 that tower over buildings, impale humans on sharp spindly legs, and emit devastating blasts from 
 their bodies -- "striders." 
  
  All the voice actors from Half-Life have returned to voice their characters in Half-Life 2. The 
 physics engine has been updated to include all objects within the game world; players will be able 
 to shoot chairs to pieces, manipulate futuristic "gravity" guns, and interact with objects in complicated 
 ways. Several vehicles will be available during certain levels, and environments include City 17, 
 some suburbs, a dry ocean bed, an icebreaking ship, and a jail. An included game editor allows 
 the creation of mods, maps, and level editing.
  
  Although Half-Life 2 is primarily a single-player game, a connection to the Internet is required 
 to play it. Users must set up an online "Steam" account, hosted by developer Valve, in order to 
 unlock the game content they install from the disk (s) . 
  
  Half-Life 2's gameplay is broadly similar to that of the original. Players make their way through 
 a linear series of levels, encountering both human troops and hostile alien creatures. As in Half-Life, 
 the gameplay is broken up with a series of puzzles; however, Half-Life 2 includes physics-based 
 puzzles. For example, one puzzle requires the player to either turn a seesaw-like lever into a 
 ramp by placing cinder blocks at one end, or to stack the cinder blocks into a crude stairway.
 
  
  The use of physics extends into combat with the gravity gun. This unique weapon plays a crucial 
 function throughout the game, granting the player an unprecedented amount of creativity in its 
 use, such as picking up and throwing objects at enemies, holding objects indefinitely for use as 
 makeshift cover, grabbing healthkits and ammunition from out-of-reach places, returning enemies' 
 grenades, building makeshift bridges, flipping over an overturned buggy, or manipulating objects 
 through Combine forcefields.
  
  Vehicles are another major gameplay addition. The player has the ability to drive two vehicles 
 during the single player campaign; an air boat, which Gordon uses to navigate through the canal 
 network, and a dune buggy which Gordon uses to get to Nova Prospekt. The air boat is initially 
 unarmed, but is later mounted with a Combine weapon from a downed hunter-chopper. The buggy is 
 armed with a Tau Cannon that functions exactly like the one found in the original Half-Life.
  
  The game also integrates tutorial-like tasks in the storyline itself and includes on-screen 
 instructions on game controls (but no longer includes separate tutorial levels featured in the 
 original) to allow familiarization of the game's mechanics and weapons for players as they go. 
 Several such examples include an early incident in the game where a Civil Protection unit orders 
 the player to "pick up" a tin can and "throw it" into the trash can, and Alyx Vance's introduction 
 of the gravity gun at Black Mesa East, which incorporates an impromptu game of "catch" with her 
 robot Dog.
  
  Although Gordon battles through much of Half-Life 2 alone, he is at times assisted by friendly 
 allies. For the most part these are human members of the resistance, but Gordon is also helped 
 by Vortigaunts and later Antlions. This latter insectoid species is new to the Half-Life universe 
 and is encountered first as a fiercely territorial foe, but is later co-opted into acting as an 
 abundant and obedient ally through the use of a pheromone pod. At several key locations, Gordon 
 also meets up with, and fights alongside, more significant non-player characters like Alyx Vance, 
 Barney Calhoun and Alyx's robot, Dog.
  
  Many familiar enemies from Half-Life return in this game, such as headcrabs, barnacles, and headcrab 
 zombies. However, the majority of the game is spent fighting the Combine, who wield large military 
 forces against Gordon and the people of City 17. Combine forces are varied and consist of modified 
 humans, biomechanical machines, robotic weapons, including the use of headcrabs as biological weapons.
 
  
  Half-Life 2's public reception was overwhelmingly positive in terms of reviews, acclaim and sales. 
 Over four million copies of the game have been sold either through Steam or through retail. This 
 is around half the number of sold copies of Half-Life, but sales for Half-Life 2 have been relatively 
 steady since its release.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  The minute you press the "New Game" Button you're freaken blown away!
  The story is just awesome! Love the Combine! and Raven Hill was freaken sweet!
  Well a good thing 
 about the game is that its not as short as Episode 1 or Episode 2 but its still a little short.
 
  Everything in the game is interactive and the gravity gun makes it even better!
  Also there are vichiles in the game are just fantastic and make the game a whole lot better. 
 
  This is the first true game that the AI isn't stupid and is actually helpful (friendly AI) and 
 the enemies are smart but even though the game difficulty is still pretty easy.
  Overall this game is on my top 5 list! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhawk360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Half-life2 is one of my top ten games of all time (which you will allready know if you read my 
 blog) and following the trends of all of the other orange gems it is genius. It was everything 
 i expected and more it involves its own kind of puzzle solving, an utterly unique and enthralling 
 storyline that will have you gripped from start to finnesh wether you have played Half-life1 or 
 not and a pleasing selection of weapons so that you can alternate your tactics.
  
  Game play:
  The gameplay's skeleton is of a basic shooter but from there on in it is completly 
 unique in its playing style. Its unique in the way that its very puzzle orientated in the way it 
 plays and the storyline almost like the Da Vinci code reads, you have all of these cluse from people 
 and you have some tools to use but its working out how they work. And inbetween all of this brain 
 mashing (a bit like tumb bashing but puzzle game version) you have to fight against your enemeis 
 obviously sometimes you have to do the puzzle solving while being attacked. The weapons are Some 
 of the most useable ever, by this i mean you dont stick with the last weapon you found, there is 
 always a use for an older weapon right the way through. Of course i cant got through the Gameplay 
 aspect of the game without mentioning the gravity gun it did to shooters then what portal has just 
 done to them now, it reveleutionises the way that you play the game becase instead of just shooting 
 bullets you can now shoot objects like buzz saw blades and gas canisters. with this new element 
 of gameplay you could actually go through the entire game from when you get it with just the gravity 
 gun.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are not spectacular and are ultimatly dependant on your graphics card but they definatly 
 are not shody they do there job to a high standard but just have no bells and whistles. One thing 
 i will say about it thiugh is that the physics are unbeatable because of the strong focus of physics 
 in the game they managed to get that part perfectly.
  
  Sound:
  The music in this game is sparse but utterly mind blowing because it kicks in around the main fights 
 and gets you very pumped up for a battle. I didnt notice the sound effects during the game and 
 im not sure if that is good or bad obviously its good because i didnt notice them so that could 
 mean that they sounded natural but it could be a bad thing cause they didnt give me that wow that 
 i look for in allot of games.
  
  Playability:
  The controls are all standard stuff really, it uses W, A, S, D format movement and Mouse 1 Mouse 2 
 shooting. It's not hard to get used to even if you are new to the FPS. Nothing wrong with the controls 
 at all. The buttons are all comfy to reach and you dont get hand ache when playing long sessions.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  Half-life two is really quite a special game, the thing about it that stands out the most is the 
 story line. The storyline is engrossing and entertaining and most importantly you can understand 
 it quite easilly. The only thing that I think could really be improved on is that you sould have 
 a few more diffrent enviroments to explore. All in all a solid game which to be honest no one has 
 the ecuse of not owning, you can get it cheap, it isnt demand on the pc, its not all that difficult 
 if you only a begginer to shooters.
  
  The Redhawk Rating System:
  This should be in every gamers top ten games
  
  Summed up in a word:
  Impressive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnddmdb642
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Half -Life 2, in my opinion, is one of the greatest games ever made. The graphics are almost flawless, 
 and the gameplay is adrenaline pumping.
  
  In Half-Life 2, you once again take the role of the silent rogue physicist Gordan Freeman, who 
 must save City 17 from the grips of the Combine forces. Although it has less of a variation of 
 enemies than in the last game, the ones do face are amazingly realistic. You are given new species 
 of headcrab, giant insects called antlions, and of course the be-gasmasked Civil Protection and 
 Combine. You navigate yourself through 14 creative levels, sometimes teaming up with the daughter 
 of Eli Vance, Alex.
  
  The levels take you through different sorts of gameplay, from riding in an airboat to commanding 
 hordes of antlions to befriending an insane, shotgun wielding priest while escaping a headcrab 
 infested village.
  
  The weapons don't have as much variety as the last game, but the new addition of the Gravity Gun 
 makes up for it. With the Gravity Gun you can pick up and move objects that are in your way or 
 make heavy objects into effective weapons by shooting them at enemies. Near the end, the Gravity 
 Gun also gives you another suprising style of gameplay, but I won't spoil it for you.
  
  All in all, the game is really fun and you will spend hours killing Combine and having fun.
  
 
  Rating: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wo-dao
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  At first it doesn't seem like anything special, but it gets better the further you go, and once 
 you get the gravity gun things change completely, while the guns themselves are functional, but 
 not superb, the gravity gun has to be one of the best creations in recent games history, the tactical 
 implications are staggering: holding objects in front of you as shields, making barricades and 
 bridges, your imagination is the only limit, so i'm going to give you one piece of advice: don't 
 play this like a normal shooter, let your mind run wild, because the only things stopping you from 
 doing something is your imagination, and how many objects are avvailable in the area. my favourite 
 area has to be ravenholm, a dark, gothic, zombie infested town from hell, with a gravity gun. how 
 can you possibly go wrong with that? once when i was low on health i locked about 10 zombies in 
 a small room by stacking wardrobes over the doorway, then grenaded them through a hole in the barricade. 
 thank you valve, for supplying us with a game that lets us properly explore our imaginations. ten 
 out of ten!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  The long anticipated HL2 lives up to it's name, borrowing ideas from the original and adding in 
 it's own new stuff, it makes this game a good one to play. 
  
  In HL 2, you now fight against the combine and have a bunch of rebels who sort of hail you as the 
 'messiah', going along side you will be the other main characters who essentially lead you through 
 the story, Breen, Alyx, Mossman. Game-play is rather fun, as most of the time there isn't alot 
 of level exploring to do to get from point A to B, but you've got to keep a look out for places 
 that are unexplored to advance. Even though it made the game rather easy to progress, but the enemies 
 that get in your way make up for it, though they get rather simple to kill as you get a hang of 
 your surroundings and the weapons given to you.
  
  Even though enemy AI is rather easy to handle, don't expect to breeze through the game, as some 
 AI's like the antlions are rather difficult if you get careless. Then the usual HL1 enemies pop 
 up, like the ever pesky head crabs and the zombies.
  
  One thing I liked about the game is the music in some parts, it added to the atmosphere and feel 
 of the game.
  
  But the story disappoints, as towards the ending which most people would hope that it would wrap 
 up the story nicely, sadly HL2 did not. It just left many questions and speculations. That is the 
 reason why I wouldn't give HL2 a 9 and above. At the end of the game, I was left rather unsatisfied, 
 furthermore, it felt like all that playing had been for nothing, nonetheless, HL2's game play was 
 still exciting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game in the late 2004, it looked nice and my PC didn't lag so bad though 
 it still a bit lagged but ok. The storyline and missions of this game are good. The graphics is 
 also good but I think Far Cry is a bit better. The multiplayer mode is good but its a pity I have 
 never found any "official" server opening a game for players. Or I am a noob who doesn't know where 
 the games official servers open are? LOL ___By the way, Far Cry has many offcial servers opening 
 games so I can easily find and join a game to play. That official servers open games is important 
 for preventing some situations like some players may set up cheating servers.
  
  I think the value of Half-Life 2 is the multiplayer. That's why I still played CS: S three months 
 ago but I didn't play the single missions of Half-Life 2 then. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  As I was wrapping up the final level, it's easy to forget this game is so old. The environments 
 and characters still look fantastic after all this time, and the action is just as fun as anything 
 I've played in Crysis or Call of Duty 4, despite all their bells and whistles.
  
  Even the storyline picked up toward the end. (Too bad it took a dozen-some hours -- and 3 years 
 -- for me to get to this point. I could just never sustain my interest past the water buggy level 
 in all my previous attempts to play through the game.)
  
  That said, I don't think I'd ever play through this game again for any reason.
  
  The game 
 world isn't absorbing like Bioshock's Rapture, which warrants at least 2 playthroughs just to take 
 in all the details, back-story, and mess with different plasmids. The combat is fun, but unlike 
 emergent-gameplay-darlings like Crysis or Bioshock, you can't approach fights in any way besides 
 shoot-shoot-run-shoot over and over. And obviously there's no co-op, so you'd never play this with 
 a friend just for shits 'n' giggles.
  
  I will say what's finally endeared me to the Half-Life series as a whole -- the puzzles. I used 
 to hate these things in Half Life 1. Any sort of jumping encounters or puzzle encounters, I absolutely 
 abhored and just wanted to get to the next shoot-out. But now that AAA shooters are a dime-a-dozen 
 and after especially playing through the genius of Portal, I've come to appreciate and love those 
 Valve spatial problems and irregular level design.
  
  I can't wait to get into Episodes 1 and 2, which are supposedly filled with even better puzzles 
 and level design.
  
  So there ya go. My 3-year-old Half Life 2 review. Sorry it took me so long, Valve, but thanks for 
 waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongky
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  This is awesome! The gameplay is smooth, the pace is fast and the story is great! Masterpiece! 
 The background music changes with the mood and the sound effects really is perfect. The environment 
 really is immersive and Half Life 2, like HL, really grows on you! Play it! What's more, if you 
 buy "The Orange Box", you will also get the other four games together with HL2. This simply is 
 CRAZY value because you are really get FIVE (5) top-notch games for the price of one (1) !!! I have 
 only a couple of gripe so far, that is, the enemy AI seemed to be a tab too weak and they are really 
 lousy shooters. They did not exhibit any real form of team-work to coordinate their attacks and 
 really too dumb to be standing to be sitting ducks for me to simply go for head-shots. Perhaps, 
 I will see more intelligent enemies later in the game but so far it is quite a breeze to overcome 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is one of those games that will suck the player into it - to fully experience all of 
 the action and drama. This game sucks players in with its non-stop and intense action that leads 
 up to one of the most creative and spectacular endings. In this game, you will battle an onslaught 
 of characters from combine soldiers, zombies, helicopters, striders, etc... You may even find yourself 
 battling all of the above at the same time with objects being tossed everywhere while an annoying 
 flying robot temporarily blinds you with its security camera flash. If it sounds intense, it is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhatnheo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  It is perfect. it has the coll monster cool look, great game play except for some thing. I guess 
 that the time of half _life 2 is in the future but not too far from the first half life. and the 
 army still use some modern submachine guns and the shotgun amd the tanks the airplane is still 
 from that day. So why the weapon is this game is too futuristic. Gordon still half the old fashion 
 shotgun and the pistol so why the assault rifle (as) is so ugly like that. the rebel should have 
 armed with Ak. Because it perfect for the urban combat and in city 17. The combie have some advanced 
 weapons but not like that as it so not in my mind. I though the as should be like the XM8 or halo 
 as. IN stead of that the game is great fun and very good. the next two episode is cool too.
  YOU SHOULD TRY IT OR YOU'LL WASTE YOUR LIFE !!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knut_The_Noob
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  So first of all, yeah thats one of the greatest games ever and no it's not better than half life 
 1. The good things first the graphic and the physics was just revolutionary for 2004. the AI was 
 just right, sometimes a little bit stupid but that was ok. The best thing for me consist only out 
 of one word.... the word is Ravenholm . Never was a game so scarry before. also good is that there 
 are tons of mods.
  
  To the two really bad things it's really, really short after really good 8 hours it ends and you 
 don't want to play it through again, you have no motivation that you go through the game two times.
 
  And the second bad thing is the AI, the combine didn't hide behind a wall and lean forward, thats 
 only boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Avery
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Half-Life, the original Counter-Strike, and all the other old games out there 
 and I think many would agree that they set the bar as to where a game and its developers should 
 be within a community. So many games have tried, but it is still Valve and Half-Life sitting up 
 there with the gold... and not many games and developers can claim to have birthed nearly all games 
 after it.
  
  Valve, yet again, throws itself out there to try and serve its fan base right while still making 
 story and game play immersive. Half-Life 2 may not have hit the world as hard as its predecessor, 
 but Valve yet again set a bar as to where a game should be in this day and age, especially the 
 first person shooter genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zubidoo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  **This is a review of the original release that includes Half-Life 2, Counter-Strike and Half-Life 
 2: Deathmatch**
  
  As any true video game or FPS lover has known since 1998, the original Half-Life was easily the 
 best shooter ever made - until now. Although that game is still a blast to play, Half-Life 2 easily 
 eclipses it in terms of graphics, presentation, story and multiplayer. Valve has managed to create 
 their second masterpiece.
  
  The gameplay is almost exactly like the original Half-Life but with some huge enhancements - physics! 
 You must use physics in this game like none other before it, and this is especially true with the 
 introduction of the revolutionary gravity gun. Once you acquire it you are able to pick up reasonably 
 sized objects that you can place in certain spots to scale obstacles or even toss at enemies to 
 kill them! Needless to say cutting zombies in half by tossing saws at them with the gravity gun 
 never gets old. It's all very simple and intuitive and perfectly complements the already great 
 gameplay that the Half-Life series is known for. You have essentially the same weapons as in the 
 first one with a couple replacements and omissions (the MP5 is now a Combine automatic weapon, 
 and the trip mines and alien weapons are gone. You get a new Combine heavy gun that fires heavy 
 rounds along with some sort of plasma balls that disintegrate enemies on contact) , but you aren't 
 going to care enough to complain about that. Once again you get your HEV suit with your health 
 and armor stations and packs scattered throughout each level, and once again every level flows 
 into the next. Some enemies return, such as headcrabs and zombies (the Combine act like the original 
 marines to an extent, though. There are the normal ones which are blue and the harder ones that 
 show up later which are white) , and new ones have joined the fray. The Combine strider, which is 
 like an organic version of War of the World's tripod with it's tall, slick body and laser weapons, 
 is essentially a very mobile living tank. There are dicers that are floating rotating saws that 
 chase you down in close quarters, and then there are floating flashbang creatures that don't do 
 much except blind you for a few seconds. There are also Combine dropships and attack planes that 
 you have to destroy with the RPG gun. The aliens also have new enemies including some advanced 
 headcrabs, advanced zombies and two different antlions. The advanced headcrabs are fast, dark and 
 will try to poison you which brings your health to 1 (but it goes back up steadily) . The advanced 
 zombies are tougher and either carry these advanced headcrabs around with them or try to kamikaze 
 themselves into you with grenades. There are two different antlions - the first are small and never 
 stop coming at you (they are pretty fast and can fly toward you, but are easy to kill) . The second 
 one is the mother antlion that is huge and can do serious damage to you. It's like the alien's 
 version of a tank. The levels are all well-designed and the puzzle elements never get tedious or 
 boring.
  
  The story is much better than the first game, with a more sinister plot that involves a lot more 
 people (in fact, the whole human race plus the Xen creatures) . You are essentially tasked by the 
 G-Man to destroy the Combine forces in City 17 (the main area of focus for the game - their HUGE 
 citadel being their fortress ) . You're fighting for the rebel force trying to bring down the oppressive 
 alien regime that have come through the dimensional gates that were opened in the first Half-Life. 
 It's a lot like 1984 in many respects, what with humans basically being turned into slaves who 
 can't reproduce and are being watched by Big Brother (an original, if almost never mentioned, Half-Life 
 character) . The foreboding blue Combine tower that you can see from miles away is possibly the 
 coolest thing ever in a video game (although it's kind've a copy of Kefka's Tower from Final Fantasy 
 3, but anyway) . You get to go inside it twice at the very beginning to come face to face with Big 
 Brother, and his recognition of just how important you are (and his nervousness that follows shortly 
 after) is so so satisfying. There are just so many cool moments in this game that are oh so satisfying 
 that you are guaranteed never to get bored. Although there aren't any real definitive answers at 
 the end of the game, you don't necessarily feel disappointed as the experience getting there was 
 absolutely worth a little dissatisfaction here. Plus, they are making three expansion packs to 
 tie loose ends, and 2 of the 3 are out now. This is the most epic FPS I have ever played, and it 
 succeeds in making you FEEL like a part of this epic struggle to save humanity.
  
  The graphics are top notch, and although they aren't as technically amazing as Gears of War or 
 the new Unreal Tournament, they run well, have consistent art direction and overall just fit perfectly. 
 After all, Super Mario 64 still looks great and it came out 11 years ago! Half-Life 2 has that 
 kind of staying power visually. All of your favorite characters return here and they all look gorgeous, 
 and this time around they feature state-of-the-art lyp-synching! A huge improvement that's missing 
 in a LOT of games, when your characters talk in the in-game cutscenes (you're still in control 
 during these, though, like in the original Half-Life) , their lips move accordingly and very believably 
 (their eyes also follow you realistically which is another cool effect) . The animations are extraordinary 
 and you can tell a LOT of effort was made into perfecting every little tiny detail they could think 
 of.
  
  The soundtrack is more or less from the original Half-Life, but since it sounded great to begin 
 with, it makes sense to either use the same music or remix it. There are a couple of new tunes, 
 but they're consistent with the original's style and perfectly add to the atmosphere. They aren't 
 the best songs ever in terms of memorability, but they get the job done well. Many sound effects 
 are also lifted from the original, especially those ones that are just classic (every gamer knows 
 that crowbar-hitting-something sound so well) . The classic HEV sound effects return as well as 
 several other movement-related ones. New ones include many of the new and/or replaced weapons, 
 but they all are satisfying. The voiceovers are exceptional and really make it easier for you to 
 believe that this is actually going on (that is, it aimed for realism and it hit the bullseye - 
 Gordon is still mute, though) . Dr. Kleiner's voiceovers are especially humorous and memorable. 
 No complaints here.
  
  The characters are basically all from the original with the addition of the Combine, Alyx Vance 
 (and her father) and Big Brother (Dr. Breen - the head of Half-Life's Black Mesa who wasn't *really* 
 mentioned at all in that game) . The graphical enhancements made to original cast members such as 
 Dr. Kleiner add incredibly to their personalities and help them to become very memorable characters 
 in their own right. Big Brother is another great character and perfectly fits the arch-nemesis 
 of humanity role (he basically sold his soul to the Combine in order to control the remnants of 
 humanity whilst living comfortably himself (he supports killing off his own species, for some twisted 
 reason) ) . G-Man returns and is just as mysterious as ever - he's one of the best characters in 
 any video game ever, and he does not disappoint here (he pops up in random places just like the 
 first game, too) . Barney makes a welcome return posing as a Combine guard, and he adds a much needed 
 level of humor and charm to the game. Overall it's simply impossible to dislike any of these characters.
 
  
  The multiplayer is simply the icing on the best cake ever. Not only do you get Half-Life 2: Deatmatch 
 (which is basically like the original's except with better graphics, the weapons from the second 
 game AND THE GRAVITY GUN) , but you get a remastered Counter-Strike! This is easily the best online 
 shooter on the market today, and the fact that it comes for FREE with Half-Life 2 is truly a gift 
 from heaven. It's a round-based team game pitting terrorists against counter-terrorists, and you 
 buy weapons, gear and armor with however much money you have (you get more for killing enemies 
 and winning the match/accomplishing the objectives) . Your objectives are to eliminate the enemy 
 team, or to either rescue the hostages or plant/defuse the bomb depending on which side you are 
 on (in the bomb case, the CT's try to kill the entire T team in order to prevent them from planting 
 the bomb. If they manage to plant it, though, then you they must defuse it before time runs out) . 
 It's all very well balanced and great fun, if not incredibly hard to master. The levels are all 
 classic and never get old.
  
  It's hard to imagine any shooter fan NOT absolutely loving this package. You get the best new shooter 
 single-player game ever (up to this point) , along with two of the best multiplayer shooters around 
 today (and TONS of people still play them which is always nice) . They are all masterpieces in their 
 own right, and to get three for one price is the best deal money can buy. Half-Life 2 is a modern 
 masterpiece that you need to play IMMEDIATELY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Having played Half Life 1 and every add-on for it and all the stuff in between I couldn't wait 
 to play HL2! While I gave it a 9.5 it is definitely a great game! But like most sequels it just 
 isn't as great as its original.
  
  The puzzles are there, the story is there, the gameplay is there.... most everything is there! 
 You are Gordon Freeman again but this time thanks to better technology Half Life has gotten funner! 
 Mostly what this game has compared to the original is emotion. The first one was pretty much the 
 same way and you liked or hated certain characters, but this one you really feel for certain characters.... 
 your sucked into the game more.
  
  The game almost to much focuses on showing off its graphics and physics then what the original 
 did.... fun. You have fun but you can tell they get a point across. Look at this scene..... look 
 at the pretty graphics and physics we can pull off! . If you liked HL you'll still like this regardless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cre_age_aeon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Play control -
  Standard PC FPS layout customization etc. et.
  
  Story -
  This game had a story? What? Seriously it actually did have a story. I won't spoil it for you. 
 But I'll tell you this. This is the story of the typical company trying to nickel and dime players 
 into buying episodes of the story that was lacking in this game from the get go.
  
  Graphics -
  This was about the only reason worth dropping the $50 for the game when it came out, 
 that and the MODs that are sure to follow... Portal, TFC etc..
  
  Conclusion -
  -Pros: Great graphics hands down, very nice physics and the MODS that are out now are great.
 
  
  -Cons: Steam is the worst thing ever, you must maintain an internet connection to play the single 
 player game. The story or lack off is another factor, Weapons are bland, enemy AI is not so hot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Salticid
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I just love it! I will remember it for a long time! I've played about 40 games in my lifetime. 
 It's at the very top tier of my games. The very top tier consists only 6 games. It's the only shooter 
 game in that tier. When I was not playing it, I was thinking about it a lot. You'll depend on a 
 gravity gun in most of the game for many reasons. It's so innvation, so you won't play the same 
 in each level. You would want to stare at characters, because they have many different facial expression 
 in amazing graphic. And many more amazing points about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceInTheHole24
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  When the original Half Life came out in '98, I went and grabbed a copy. I had been taken in by 
 the magazine ads that claimed that it was a new kind of FPS. One where you had to do more than 
 just run and shoot, open door, run and shoot. After playing for a time, I was able to see why they 
 made those claims, some of the game play was new and fresh, but overall it still seemed like every 
 other FPS I had ever played, and I was growing tired of FPSs. I had some fun with the multi-player 
 for a while, but soon got tired of whiny fan boys and gave that up too. So, for the next six years, 
 I didn't play any FPSs. I was jaded and I didn't know if I'd ever be brought back into the fold. 
 Then I started seeing some video of the new Half Life 2. I wasn't sold at first, but I kept watching 
 and listening to what was being said about the game. Finally, with some extra cash, I decided to 
 go and pick up a copy of the Game of the Year Edition. I didn't have my hopes really high, but 
 I had gotten the game at a bargain price after it had been out for awhile, so I wouldn't be out 
 too much if I had the same experience I'd had with the first game.
  
  To say I was pleasantly surprised is an understatement.
  
  To date I have played through Half 
 Life 2 three times. That's quite a record for someone like me who rarely has time to play a game 
 once, but it just kept drawing me back. HL2 to me was what was promised in HL1. The gameplay was 
 new and fresh, the graphics were outstanding for their time, and the characters were of the sort 
 that made me care for them in a way that I didn't think was possible.
  
  I could go on and on about details of game play, but I'd rather sum this up by putting everyone 
 in two categories. If you're an FPS aficionado, you'll love this game, just be sure to put the 
 difficulty high enough that you are challenged. If you're like me and are a take it or leave it 
 FPS fan, you'll still love it, either for the story or for the depth of play. In short, pick up 
 a copy soon if you haven't in the last three years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  I was rather late comeing in buying this game. I'm not sure why, but i never got excited about 
 it. When i finally did buy it, I had a great time. even 3 years after it's release, it looks pretty 
 damn good, and the physx are still impressive. especially how you can break almost anything, and 
 throw cans of paint at stuff, painting it white. The sound is incredibly detailed, especially when 
 indoors, since sounds echo realistically. The gameplay is pretty good, although it feels as though 
 it is missing something. i'm not sure what. Of course, the game does have it's flaws. such as gordon 
 can carry as many guns as he likes, but not very much ammo for them. The big revolver pistol thingy 
 can only hold 6 rounds, and you can only carry 12 extra. wtf. Also, gordon never talks, but everyone 
 seems to know exactly what he is thinking and everyone still falls in love with him. Another wim 
 is that it is absurdly easy. I had some friends over, and i said they could play when i died. eventually 
 to make it fair, i started to play only with a pistol, then a crowbar. this is the level on the 
 beach with the bunkers. i didn't die for quite a while, and when one of my friends took over, with 
 no fps expirience whatsoever, played marrily away until he beat the mission. i think i died a total 
 of 2 times throughout the entire game. overall it is extremely fun, and if you havent alrealy bought 
 it, then go bloody buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2, around 20 bucks almost anywhere, you get the game and deathmatch online play with 
 it. First of all the game itself immerses you into another world, besides having satisfactory graphics 
 the plot line is so interesting you want to play it. Like watching a movie. The game has excellant 
 gameplay however there are long load times but the game makes up for it because it gives you a 
 break from the terror, action, and suspense you will find everywhere. Now to online, if you ever 
 wanted to program and design video games you may want to dabble at this. There are building mods 
 online and they are amazing, using all sorts of things such as thrusters, colorful trails, and 
 much more. Also finding a game is extremly fast and easy, and the maps people create are always 
 cool to experience.
  
  OVERALL- GREAT GAME, GOOD GRAPHICS, IMMERSIVE GAMEPLAY, EXCELLANT ONLINE EXPERIENCE WITH PHYSICS.
 
  Thanks for listening tag me for more posts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 really exceeded expectations for any game of its time with outstanding graphics, illustrious 
 gameplay and a very strong and dramatic story of an exodus for freedom of humanity... Yet we have 
 time for little ingame jokes made by characters around Gordon Freeman, the protagonist that never 
 speaks one word.
  
  Although, the game's worst thing is that the story almost stands still the whole game, leaving 
 you in a bad-mood-ending, begging for sequels. And the sequels take long time to come, leaving 
 you more upset than ever! Nevertheless it is worth playing and waiting for its slowpoke sequels, 
 pacience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim_Drake
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: When I first played the first game I was amazed at how well the game runs, it's amazing. 
 Playing Half-Life 2 I was able to interact with things like soda cans and other things that might 
 be lying around. The physics engine is amazing which brings the game to life. Sound: The sound 
 is probably amazing, I don't have a 5.1 stereo set up, but if you do the game will sound FANTASTIC! 
 I couldn't believe at how crystal clear the sound was, and how loud the guns were, it sounded twice 
 as real as the first game. Plus what made my jaw drop was when seeing Combine Soldiers shooting 
 their guns from long distance, I'm not sure if many people know what a gun sounds like from a couple 
 of yards away but hearing that was DEAD on to what it sounds like in real life.
  
  Controls: With the default controls I had to change, it was difficult for me to use the letter 
 keys so I ended up changing the set up for how I moved and how I shifted across left and right. 
 Graphics: If you have a really really good computer you will be able to play the game at max settings 
 which will make the game look VERY realistic, even though my computer doesn't have a great graphics 
 card I was able to see for a split second how the game looked when the settings were maxed, some 
 scenes on my computer weren't getting fast frames per second. I was probably getting around 50 
 frames on some parts.
  
  Overall: The storyline keeps you pumping through the levels, it's very easy to know what's going 
 on by the character explanations they give you in the game. If you haven't played the first Half-Life 
 game you'll be quite confused on the characters and what their purpose to the game is. The game 
 is awesome and it leaves you wanting more when you finish the game, which is why they released 
 Episodes 1 and 2. I still have yet to play Episode 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  +Amazing physics and graphics keep you gunning for more and more, while receiving more and more. 
 In-game music is very well placed.
  +Game is really long, but not in that repetitive environment like most shooters. You really get 
 to move around the environment.
  -Although the game is an offline game, it requires Steam to play, so some of the people not in 
 with the 21st century are going to have a cow.
  -The very ending feels a bit tacked on and is a bit too easy.
  
  Ahh, Half-Life 2 brings back 
 ancient memories of me getting my hands on Half-Life back in 1998. Halloween, to be exact. I think 
 it was the first FPS game I laid my hands on that featured me getting to go to work and goof off 
 before exploding into an Epic story of a scientist fighting to get free, aliens coming to attack, 
 and the government coming to hide the facts . Half-Life 2 takes place a few years after the mess 
 at Black Mesa. Unlike before, you're not going to work. You're lining up in marching order with 
 an almost New World Order effect on society. Luckily, that doesn't last long as Gordon is known 
 to raise cane, especially when equipped with a crowbar.
  
  The story is really well written, and takes you on a wild ride through many different settings. 
 You'll start out in a train station, fight on a hillside, and various other locales. The great 
 thing about that is the game is really long, but doesn't get boring since you're always in a different 
 spot, fighting different guys, and solving harder and harder puzzles. The pace at which you get 
 new weapons is very well thought out. Heck, 10 hours into the game, I was still getting new weapons. 
 The weapons are really cool too. They have the basic melee weapon, the crowbar, your basic arsenal 
 of pistols, machine guns, and close quarter combat weapons, such as a shotgun, but then you get 
 an impressive amount of fun (and explosive) weapons, like a laser guided rocket launcher, a really 
 cool crossbow, and the gun the game is known for: the gravity gun. The gravity gun takes full advantage 
 of Half-Life's revolutionary physics, by letting you mess with as many rag dolls and miscellaneous 
 items as you see fit. Some of the items you can pick up range from boxes, saws, missiles, even 
 to projectile that someone shoots at you.
  
  The graphics are really amazing. They're a perfect blend of high resolution textures mixed with 
 amazing physics and lighting. It's not lighting like seen in most games, such as DOOM 3 or F. E. A. R., 
 but it's also because this game is dealing with different times of the day, and not just a dark 
 area. The rag dolls, like I have said before, are really amazing. One of the things that I liked 
 was how the mouthes actually matched the voices. Conkers for the N64 sort of started that whole 
 thing (well, at least started it by doing it the right way) and Half-Life 2 sort of just took it 
 a bit further by adding muscles into the characters faces for a more realistic look while talking. 
 The sounds are good, with incredible voice acting, but one of the best things about this game is 
 the music. It really picks up pace in the game and isn't haunting you the whole time. I've stated 
 in other reviews that I hate in-game music but this isn't that bad at all.
  
  There is some multiplayer that you get from the game, and it's your typical deathmatch and team 
 deathmatch. The only unique thing about it is some of the maps have traps as well as you get to 
 build forts using that gravity gun. Overall, the real treat is the single player, and one of the 
 best single players to hit the PC, especially in this day and age of pumping out absolute garbage 
 annually. You'll be in for some shocks, as well as some amazingly fun action. And if that's not 
 enough, the mod community and the multiplayer will help the game last just a bit longer than the 
 other shooters. I highly recommend buying this game, if not for the graphics and sound and game 
 engine, for the story alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Many will remember so long ago when the great game Half Life came out. It was amazing at its time 
 and it seemed nothing could compare except another game of its kind. Nevertheless Valve has finally 
 released a sequel which also amazes. With stunning graphics and a great environment and so much 
 to do, it is hard to compete with Half Life.
  
  The game will remind you of what happened last time around and you will begin the story from where 
 the first one left off. Immediately players will become engaged in the story because in this new 
 fearful environment you are treated very poorly, and you will feel an immediate connection with 
 your character. The city itself is an amazing environment, but once you get to the outskirts you 
 will be introduced to an amazing place where you will be face to face with things you could never 
 think of. The huge variety of monsters you face are spread across a challenging campaign that will 
 take many hours to finish and will take you across an absolutely huge amount of environments. You 
 will use a large array of weapons to blast through enemies, but the big disappointment is the inconclusive 
 story. As you are drawn to the end of the amazing game you find out that you will have to wait 
 another few years to view the end.
  
  The game is drawn together into one huge graphically amazing bundle. The Graphics are absolutely 
 flawless. Everything is so rich and detailed and yet there is no blurriness. Valve has really taken 
 an extra step to make sure nothing is missing from either the character or environment. Characters 
 are very detailed and look very realistic. The have life-like motions. The environment look very 
 good and real and players can be amazed at what they view on screen, and everybody can agree that 
 there is again a good amount of detail put in but everything is still kept neat. No game can compare 
 to the amazingly done graphics of this game.
  
  Ever sound in the game is also done well. Players will be amazing by the sfx, and character voices. 
 Add some amazing music and a great dialogue and you have yourself some ear candy.
  
  Both Half-Life game so far half impressed everybody. There is nothing negative to say about them 
 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoleyva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Definitivamente un juego ....... perdon, un juegaso ! los detalles, el entorno, la historia, el 
 juego, el teclado, el monitor, todo ! uno de los mejores juegos definitivamente.
  
  No entrare a analizar al detalle este juego, eso se lo dejo a otros, pero no puedo dejar de alabar 
 los paisajes, el agua, los movimientos, de lo mejor q he visto en muchos a&ntilde; os. ojala que 
 el final no me decepcione, q ya estoy cerca.
  
  Este juego enamora a cualquiera, chico o grande, no hay diferencia, como no salen mas de estos 
 cada mes, o por lo menos cada dos ..
  
  y luego a jugar el epsiodio uno y luego el dos, esperemos que pronto tengamos mas juegos de esta 
 clase, ojala escuchen nuestras plegarias.
  
  Vamos gordon freeman ... q eres lo maximo, lo maximo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pocket-dragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  "... THE BEST GAME EVER MADE."- PC gamer magazine. Thats how it is. It's been six long years since 
 VALVe made it's debut with HALF-LIFE. HALF-LIFE 2 begins with the G-Man, waking you from a deep 
 slumber. "Wake up and smell the ashes." He says. You wake up on a train that has just arrived at 
 it's station. You get off the train to be welcomed by a huge projection of a certain Dr. Wallace 
 Breen. The projection of Dr. Breen Tells newcomers that "it's safer here". You've arrived in one 
 of Earth's few remaining cities, called "city 17", and the world is under siege of a group described 
 as "our benefactors". Things only get darker as you wander around the streets of city 17, seeing 
 citizens being mugged by combine guards, vortigaunts being used as slaves, and so on. The world 
 has changed for the worse since you left it. HALF-LIFE 2 really brings you deep into the story, 
 where the plot twists and turns down a never-ending road of thrills and surprises. HALF-LIFE 2 
 truly does deserve it's 35 "game of the year" awards.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealKilla_789
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game i have ever played. I first played half life 1 long ago on the ps2 and 
 i never knew there was a sequel until a year ago. I played the game for pc and it the best experience 
 i ever had in playing a game. The story and gameplay is amazing. Theres nothing like taking a sawblade 
 and ripping up some zombies. I love the way you are never removed from the game with a cutscene. 
 Everything is through your eyes. The physics in this game are amazing. You can interact with just 
 about anything that you see and it sticks out. I recommend this game for anyone that loves good 
 quality first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adar_g
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2. I think no other game has been quite as anticipated. Through the long wait since the 
 original to the stolen source code fiasco, it seemed that what promised to be gaming nirvana was 
 ultimately out of reach. It's been out for a few years now, and I finally have a pc that meets 
 the recommended specs. I pick up a copy of this supposed gaming bliss I have heard so much about.
 
  
  Half Life 2 looks amazing. Given the relatively low cost of the hardware needed to run it, this 
 is no mean feat. Textures jump out at you, faces look and move realistically, and the physics are 
 revolutionary. Things actually move (more or less) like they are supposed to. Virtually anything 
 can be picked up. The thing that makes this all the more amazing is the gravity gun. A sort of 
 quantum physics vacuum with a reverse switch, it allows the player to grab objects from afar and 
 fling them back out again. This is pretty nifty, and one of the things that really got me to purchase 
 the game.
  
  Half Life 2 leaves much to be desired in the sound department. Nothing about the music is memorable. 
 The sound effects are appropriate, and fit in decently. But otherwise there's not much to write 
 about.
  
  Half Life 2 plays JUST LIKE ANY OTHER FPS. Aside from the source engine which produces those nice 
 visuals and the physics, it's still just an fps. It's deja vu all over again. If it weren't for 
 the gravity gun, this game would have nothing special about it. I can't take too many points away 
 for this though. The game does it's job, but ultimately, it's just another theme slapped onto the 
 same genre. The story leaves much to be desired, especially the ending. What happens to Dr. Freeman? 
 Maybe the newer Episode 1 &amp; 2 games answer this. As for me, I don't really care one way or 
 the other.
  
  In conclusion, it's out at a budget price, and if I were a betting man, I'd bet a nickel your pc 
 could run it. It's worth checking out. Just don't come into it expecting the ultimate gaming experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalrvbest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I started this game thinking that it was going to completely blow me away, and it did, to begin 
 with. The graphics were still pretty good even for 2007. The weapons responded well, and seemed 
 to do a decent amount of damage although it took forever to kill some of the enemies with a pistol. 
 The puzzles sometimes got frustrating, but they did add a new dimension to the fps. I liked the 
 crossbow. It was accurate and quick to use. The shotgun was also very good, but I didn't like the 
 assault rifle. It didn't have enough ammo available to use it as your primary weapon. The enemies 
 were fairly slow and clumsy, but some were difficult to kill. The gravity gun was usefuland it 
 was fun chopping off people's heads with a disc slammed at them with the gravity gun. The story 
 was a bit disappointing, but there has to be some area for sequels. It was a bit short for me and 
 there wasn't much replayability. Certainly a good game for playing once for the thrills, but if 
 you want something that lasts, you might want to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micknator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  I bought this game cause I played Half-life 1 and I liked that game. But when I got my hands on 
 this one ... I was completely amazed by the game's physics and graphics. even the sound was perfect 
 to me. The weapons are nicely balanced and the environment is very useful in firefights. The parts 
 in the hovercraft and the terrain buggy were awesome, same for the part where you got those sort 
 of 4-legged monsters with you (pretty similar to those from Starship Troopers) ! Bugs? Not much. 
 The downsides of the game are the amount of enemies there are. They're are to few of them (I'm 
 talking about the Combine) . The other downside are the loading times. There are alot of loading 
 times and sometimes pretty long loading times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123456_1267
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  What more can i say. This is the best game i have ever played.
  Stunning and engaging storyline.
  Massive and extremely fun multiplayer.
  About as revolutionary 
 graphics wise as you can get.
  
  to sum up how good it is here is a little story.
  
  about 2 weeks ago i got my new computer, so i migrated all of my games from steam then realised, 
 damn all of my save data has been lost. then i looked at my game list and saw hl2 and said oh well 
 .
  withing 3 days i had completed the campaign again and loved every minute of it.
  
  what canbe bad about multiplayer when the leader of the match is winning on killing people with 
 toilets?
  
  Superb.
  
  A TRUE MUST BUY
  
  (p. s ORANGE BOX is out soon so aswell) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xper360
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Perfection, evolution and revolution. Three words to summaries Half Life 2. The original sat the 
 bar back in '97, along with Quake and Quake 2, for what FPS's could deliver. The sequel is as much 
 an engineering masterpiece as it is a psychological and philosophical evolution of gaming, to make 
 it so much more than just entertainment. A full review is at a lost here, as it is a bit too late 
 (2004 was a long time ago) . This is a mere statement of the grandness that is Half Life 2. A complete 
 gaming experience. A complete testimony of perfection, evolution and revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Can a game ever be perfect?
  
  Every time we try and answer that question about a game honestly, we usually come up with some 
 feature that we are not too pleased about, something that doesn't quite fit in, something that 
 isn't as good as the rest. This is typically the case with most games. No matter how much we like 
 it, personal opinions apart, there are always some flaws, some are glaring while some are very 
 minor, but they exist.
  
  However, some games give you a very hard time to find something wrong with it. You have to be extremely 
 judgmental and fastidious to pick these barely discernible imperfections. The point I am trying 
 to make very indirectly is that once in a while a game is made that pushes almost all existing 
 boundaries and goes that much closer towards perfection.
  
  Half Life 2
  
  I will not waste a lot of time with this review  if you have been living under a rock for the 
 last 9 years or so and don't know what Half Life is and you just happened to come out from underground 
 then you should immediately buy this game and play it. But since I have a job to do, I will tell 
 you why you should take my word.
  
  Now, I am not endorsing this product, in fact I am not even a fan of this genre until very recently, 
 which explains why I have started playing the game 3 years after its release  you see, I've been 
 living under a small rock of my own as well. Ummok, now that we are done with this living under 
 a rock business, let's move on.
  
  I set out to write a lengthy review on this game, but frankly, no review is good enough to explain 
 what Half Life 2 is all about, because for one thing, we are talking about gameplay experience 
 here. It has to be played to fully realize what sets this game apart from all the other FPS games. 
 I could go on and describe the unbelievable physics, very adaptable graphics, fantastic level design 
 and whatnot, but you should play it and see for yourself.
  
  What Valve has done is that they created a whole world in the game that is very interactive. Very 
 often you will have puzzles that involve dealing with the environment. For this to be possible, 
 every part of the environment must have its unique properties, so what looks like wood, actually 
 behaves like wood, it will break into splinters and float in water just like actual wood. The same 
 goes for all the objects that are found in the game. This might seem insignificant when you read 
 it, but when you play it, that's when you see the difference.
  
  However, there are a few faults that are worth mentioning. The game has certain bugs like the popular 
 elevator bug and some video and sound glitches, these can be quite annoying. However, there are 
 fixes to be found on the internet and it comes down to a matter of applying a patch or two.
  
  That said I couldn't find any other problems with the game. The only problem is a technical 
 issue; I have no complaints at all with the gameplay elements. It is a fantastic journey that you 
 will embark on, the moment you set your foot outside the train and into the subjugated City 17.
 
  
  This game has to go down in history as one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_14
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah where to start.
  As first of all dont trust those people that are saying that is this the best game ever! Here is 
 the Explanation.
  
  Good: Nice graphic, good sound, riding with car and that other rhing is so much fun, low system requierments,
 
  
  Bad: linear, story is confusing and hard to understand
  
  So like i said the game is good but it is kinda dissapointing.
  Authors havent given you freedom 
 like in Far Cry, the game seems like it is from last decade and it is very short not to mention 
 bugs.
  
  The game is good but not good like Half Life 1.
  
  So declering this game the best game ever is ridicilus.
  It is not the best FPS even.
  
  
 But if you like games with really nice graphics, and cool guns you should pick it up..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tripwolf
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Years have passed since Half-Life 2 first shook the scene with its ground breaking graphics and 
 life like human movements. Since then, whenever people compare a FPS to another, somewhere along 
 the line Half-Life 2 gets brought up.. and for good reason. This game set the bar for all games 
 like it by not redefining the wheel but perfecting it. That's not to say there aren't revolutionary 
 ideas used in the game such as the magnificently fun gravity gun but what makes this game so incredible 
 is how everything is pulled off so cleanly and effortlessly. From the cinematic-like shoot outs 
 to the feelings-driven storyline that makes you feel sympathy for the ingame npc's which will gladly 
 give their lives for you and the rebellion.. this game will grab hold and not let go. This is another 
 one of those games where if you haven't played and beaten it.. I don't consider you a gamer. It 
 may seem elitist or even possibly mean but that's just the way it is. Go. Experience the game that 
 set the bar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2... I have almost nothing bad to say about this game. It's an amazing technical achievement 
 and an engaging story. I picked up this game in 2006 never having played the original Half Life. 
 It didn't matter; I still found the story worked well. If you missed the original like me I wouldn't 
 let that stop you from picking up here.
  
  When I first played this game I didn't have a great graphics card but I was blown away by how good 
 the game looked and how well it ran. I could barely believe my PC was actually doing this. So... 
 the best thing I can say about Half Life 2 is that it's an amazing game that won't punish you too 
 badly for having an older system. I wouldn't say the game was rock solid but most of the crashes 
 I've experienced with it so far have happened more recently when trying to run the game in Vista 
 - I think they (Nvidia &amp; Microsoft &amp; Valve) have fixed these issues already though.
  
  Half Life 2 was an incredible game in it's time, I'm sure; but even by today's standards (2007) 
 it still stands out as one of the best shooters for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluearmykid
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  It is time to awake, Dr. Freeman ; and the game begins... You awake in a trainstation, City 17. 
 No weapons, you need to make your way out first. I'll tell you, te beginlevels are a bit boring, 
 after Black Mesa, you'll never be boring yourself in this game, then it's pure AAA material. At 
 first, the improvements that are been made from Half Life 1: the Gravity Gun!!! The best damn thing 
 a game can have, it pulls and shoots everything you see... Accept enemies of course but just wait 
 till the end, you'll see what your Gravity Gun has become then. The normal graphical improvements 
 but this game looks nice if your specs are high enough, to todays standards maybe not but back 
 then in 2004, the game was art. Especially the faces are incredibly done, even till today. Of course 
 there are some weapons added.. But the most important and funniest added weapon is the bug-bait. 
 Just squeeze it and Antlions (big **** insects) will listen to whatever you say, this makes Sandtraps 
 and Nova Prospekt one of the coolest levels to play through in the game. The story is a bit less 
 intensive then before but still, this is one of the most story-driven shooters in history. But 
 closure, oooh no. G-Man is there to give you more questions. And tehy will, especially the ending 
 is confusing cause what the hell happens next? But of course, in the time of writing HL2: Episode 
 1 is already out... The gameplay still feels a bit the same, although it's much more perfectionized 
 and the adding of the bugbait and gravity gun gives you an unexperienced experience that will leave 
 you dreaming about what to do with it. The levels are all variated, from running staircases in 
 buildings to a city full of zombies, from hoovercrafts to buggy's, and from small headcrabs to 
 **** big Striders... The A. I. is very good (if you play on hard then) , throw grenades back and 
 stuff.. But the friendly A. I. really sucks, for example: they call: 'Gordon watch out, grenade!' 
 I run, but they just stand still and get killed. The puzzles (yeah there are some puzzles in this 
 shooter) are all very logical, just think and you got it but never impossible, you'll never have 
 to wait like hours to get this, just max. a quarter but no not more. So please, take my advice, 
 if you're waiting for games like Crysis and Assasin's Creed to come out and you haven't played 
 this, go and buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I thought it was an ok game but just not deserving of all the hype and kudos 
 it's gotten. The graphics look nice but for a FPS the weapons seem blah and underpowered. The storyline 
 is actually pretty boring and the character developement is just.... ok I guess.
  
  Thats my opinion about the SP but the MP doesn't fair as well. Some of the goodpoints of the game 
 are that it does run on slower older pc's allowing a huge fanbase of people to play, which is a 
 good thing. But for people that are looking for a higher quality of gameplay I don't think they 
 will find it on any of the Steam games to tell you the truth.
  
  I really had to struggle to finish this game, it was like i was falling asleep while the unimaginative 
 enemies tried to kill me with mundane and boring AI.
  
  I classified HL2 as Overrated and I don't think another playthrough of the game would ever change 
 my mind. I have never been one to fall into the hype machine for very long.. although it does happen 
 so I never say never. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 has become a PC classic, be it because of the cinematic effect, the atmosphere, the 
 script, the graphics, or all of the above. GAMEPLAY:
  This first person shooter manages what others try to do but most don't. It makes you feel like 
 you're actually there. The game is addictive, the atmosphere is nearly perfect and the script is 
 pretty good. The levels are linear, but you simply just don't care. The game's got a cinematic 
 effect making it seem like a movie more than a game at times, but it does so in a really good way.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics of this game are simply amazing. Right now, year 2007, the graphics are still pretty 
 good. The character animations make them seem like real actors, even the aliens that come after 
 you look realistic... ish.
  
  SOUND:
  The shooting sound effects are good, the voice acting is brilliant, the music is lacking, though. 
 But when there is music, it fits the moment perfectly.
  
  THE GOOD:
  + Atmosphere
  + Voice acting
  + Cinematic effect
  + Addictive + Long (Longer than other fps games)
  
 
  THE BAD:
  - Annoying loading times put you off of the game sometimes.
  - Weird ending. If I didn't know there were more games after it, I would of felt disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  I got this game off of steam and it's amazing. But the main reason I got is was that there was 
 about 100-200 cheat codes... Wow... that's a lot! But aside from the cheats, this is a seriously 
 awesome game. The graphics are gorgeous, gamplay is perfect, sound is amazing and it'll take you 
 about 8-14 hours to beat and there's also mutiplayer, but i've never tried playing it. I'm very 
 very very surprised how good this game was. It'll keep you playing for hours and hours, I guarantee 
 you. So if your a fan of first person shooters, you really need to check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  This game does not require a large review since it is so well known.
  
  It is not just a FPS since it surpasses its genre. It is amazing by any standard. 3 years later, 
 here I am giving it one more spin. Know what? It STILL holds up against all of the games that came 
 out in 2007. This game is the reason why I give a shooter, like Brothers in Arms, that came out 
 AFTER HL2, a very mediocre rating.
  
  If this is what computers and developers were capable of 3 years ago, it goes to show you how short 
 all of the other companies are falling. They do not hesitate to slap a 50 dollar price tag on their 
 games. This game is what you should get for that price, and it came out in 2004.
  
  This is the standard every game should strive for.
  
  Pretty average A. I. can't ruin a top 
 notch, fine tuned, and brilliant game.
  
  Even if you played it 20 times, and haven't touched it in a year or two, load it up again on your 
 2007 pimped out gaming PC. You'll find yourself being amazed all over again.
  
  This game is an instant classic and one of the best games ever made. Half Life 2 presents a design 
 standard that all games should strive to reach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  WARNING - CAN CONTAIN SPOILERS It's a wonder why i haven't got round to playing and completing 
 this game till now as i've had it within easy reach for over 2 years (my brother's steam account) . 
 And my word, i really should have started on this game much sooner, MUCH sooner because this is 
 one of the best single player FPS game i've ever played. And what a great package this game is, 
 because my favourite online multiplayer FPS, Counter Strike: Source is also included. Upon completion, 
 i also installed Half Life: Source (also included) ready for playing. And have i mentioned the 
 available mods? and the Half Life 2 deathmatch game? This is one of the best game packages ever 
 released.
  
  One thing i have to say out of other first person shooters is how well it looks and plays even 
 on an outdated machine. I played this on my 3 year old laptop (native resolution - laptop is still 
 going strong at 64bit ) and it ran extremely well despite sluggish load times due to the hard drive. 
 Load times are quite numerous and it did detract a little from the pacing of the game on my machine 
 - this may not be the same on other peoples' faster PCs though. You'll notice i don't have any 
 screenshots in this writeup, and this is actually quite the compliment- the game had me engrossed 
 so much that i did not want to take the time to do other stuff other than play the game, all the 
 way to the finish.
  
  This game still looks amazing today given its 2004 debut. I actually played the original Half Life 
 many years ago and did not feel all that compelled to go further and finish it; this game has convinced 
 me that i must go back once again. Characters have full voice acting except for yourself, Gordon 
 Freeman. Expressions were way ahead of it's time in 2004; mouths lip synched perfectly, eyebrows 
 and eyes are expressive and does give off a good sense of the situations. Great looking waters 
 are complimented by open areas and sunlight, but is really given life when in combat on your hoverboat 
 with these helicopters giving chase. This is also when you appreciate how audio really affects 
 your gaming experience - bullets whizz past with screeching clarity and the thudder of the copter 
 blades imposes a menacing bass.
  
  Killing the guards causes a pinging noise (from the radio?) which is a little confusing, but nevertheless 
 becomes satisfying. You can hear the radio speak coming from the guards which can become useful 
 if you pay attention. A big difference between this and many fps including 2007-2008 fps games 
 is the lack of any cutscenes - by this i mean, the lack of fixed-camera cutscenes in which you 
 are forced to watch at the director's discretion. In HL2, people speak, situations unfold, but 
 YOU are still in control, YOU control your character. The decision to do this actually makes the 
 game more immersive, i don't remember any point in the game in which i see myself in the third 
 person. If you've played Metal Gear Solid and got to the final scenes - the experience is similar 
 to when you were looking up at the metal gear. There are also times in which you're on-rails but 
 you can freely look around like in the transformation scenes of Quake 4. Design choices which makes 
 this game feel years ahead of many first person shooter games on the market.
  
  One of the most important aspects of a fps imo is the way your character moves, after playing CSS 
 for a while i grew accustomed to the HL2 feel almost immediately, but there is the added right-click 
 zoom-view system that is becoming more and more mainstream these days. Looking at the crysis videos 
 these days, you realise how much that game has borrowed heavily from HL2 - not that that is a bad 
 thing. The story is well structured and actually feels quite unbelievable of what just one man 
 has done, nevertheless it's all fun and good. The weapons are well-varied from normal pistol, magnum, 
 rocket launchers, shotgun, some automatic 'rifles', an alien manipulating 'device' and the well-observed 
 gravity gun. The gravity gun- it could have been just a weapon to show off the physics of the source 
 engine - but it works so well. It's often useful for puzzle elements of the game, but is equally 
 good in combat. Right click an object to 'hold' it in front of you and then press shoot to let 
 it fly - cutting blades are the ideal objects - and there you have an ammo saving weapon. There 
 will be times when you must make your own path with these sort of objects, which honestly, can 
 be annoying. Later on in the game, you'll feel like a Jedi knight Although there are many weapons, 
 i personally felt it a little cumbersome in changing weapons, this is mostly due to the number 
 of weapons available. Fortunately, pressing the 'G' key will switch to the gravity gun and back 
 quickly. Most of this 'niggle' comes when you want to use different weapons for different situations, 
 like the rocket launcher or the alien weapon. OK, the alien weapon is this 'scent' object which 
 you gain from this boss alien. By throwing this ball-like scent object many 'minion' aliens will 
 rush to that destination - perfect for clearing out guard posts without endangering yourself. There 
 is so much put into this game such as vehicles (by water and land) , operating a crane, that i was 
 a little surprised i didn't eventually get to drive a helicopter myself!
  
  The enemies are nicely varied from your standard guards (who all look the same because of the gear) , 
 these head-huggers, these 'zombies' with headhuggers on their - well - heads, 'licker-like' monsters, 
 some sand bugs, guards with snipers, guards with machine guns, guards with shotguns, guards coming 
 down on ropes, flying cameras with spinning blades, sentry guns (which you can also use for yourselves) , 
 helicopters, explosive balls which follow you , huge machines with long legs etc etc. Your weapons 
 are naturally better at certain enemies, thus forcing you into a weapon switching frenzy at times 
 - and that is when having many different weapons can have its drawbacks.
  
  OK, i've been praising this game a lot, but i feel it deserves it. While they are very little niggles, 
 the positives outweigh the negatives by a huge margin. If you're looking for a very compelling, 
 heart-pumping shooter, get this game. If you want some good variety out of the countless number 
 of shooters out there, get this game. If you also like multiplayer deathmatches (Half Life 2 Deathmatch) 
 or online cooperative tactical shooting experiences (Counter Strike: Source) , then get this game. 
 If you're any kind of gamer who only likes some mild action, get this game. Basically, if you're 
 a gamer at all, just get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanlyger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I am by no means a hardcore FPS player, but I found Half-Life 2 to be an inspired and impressive 
 game.
  
  I will say first that the Gravity Gun is the coolest FPS weapon ever, however, other than that, 
 I would have to say that the gameplay is nothing revolutionary.
  
  That said, the developers certainly made they best of it. The game is fun to play.
  
  Half-Life 
 2 really shines due to its impressive visuals, awesome physics engine and memorable characters.
 
  
  The characters in question really come to life thanks to fantastic voice-acting and realistic facial 
 expressions. Like most, I liked Alyx Vance the best. She is a cool character and strong heroine.
 
  
  My biggest problem with this game is the hero, Gordon Freeman. I had a tough time getting into 
 him and his messianic reputation when he never says a word. It also makes the romance between 
 himself and Alyx pretty lame.
  
  All things considered, Half-Life 2 is one of the best shooter Ive ever played. Take that for what 
 its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nadavoNz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is an immersive first person shooter from the developers at Valve Software, the creators 
 of the original Half-Life. Building off of the riveting storyline and gameplay of the debut title, 
 Half-Life 2 pushes the envelope even further and has once again raised the bar of the FPS genre. 
 Using Valve's own built-from-the-ground-up Source engine, Half-Life 2 offers interactive physical 
 environments, intense realism and impressive graphics, all bundled together with a masterfully-crafted 
 storyline.
  
  Released on November 16, 2004 after nearly 5 years of development, Half-Life 2 was recieved grandly, 
 winning over 35 Game of the Year awards for 2005. To date, Half-Life 2 has sold over four million 
 copies, 25% of which have been purchased using Steam, Valve's digital content delivery system. 
 In addition to the PC version, Half-Life 2 has been ported to Xbox and will be released for both 
 the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3 in 2007.
  
  Players once again assume the role of scientist Gordon Freeman, but this time Gordon finds himself 
 in a post-apocalyptic environmentapparently a result of the Black Mesa Incident. With Earth's 
 human population oppressively held in prison-like urban centers, its natural landscape ravaged 
 by the effects of Xen infestations and a whole new enemy that has viciously annexed the human race 
 into its ranks, the future of mankind seems bleak at best. Looks like it's once again up to Gordon 
 to save the day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BertFallen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  The Problem with games today is simply put, there too much like Hollywood movies. What with the 
 story being spoon fed to you, and certain games lacking story in favour of graphics. People somewhat 
 idolize graphics and I admit a game with nice graphics sets the mood of the game. But when the 
 story and gameplay elements are at risk. Its just not worth the beautiful graphics. Whats more, 
 developers seem some what obsessed with beautiful environments and architecture that they seem 
 to forget what the games about. A World torn apart by war and look now as your character peacefully 
 strides through a beautiful green field.
  
  Half-Life 2 is set after half-life (obviously) as you assume control of Gordon Freeman (again) 
 to destroy the alien force clutching control of Earth. The story is told through many different 
 NPCs and unravels slowly as the game progresses. Unlike it being slapped straight on top of you 
 in one instant. The game is rich with beautiful environments yet still huge evidence of destruction, 
 and desperation. Half-Life shows off some of the most photo realistic graphics seen in Video games 
 and one of the few games to not have story elements effected. All in all this game is a must buy, 
 and must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colderon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Awesome graphics, awesome AI, awesome real-time action, awesome everything. Unlike most fps games 
 out there, such as Halo, this game definitely does not entertain you with the same thirty seconds 
 of action over and over and over again. Every experience, every situation in the game, is unique 
 in some way. The lack of cut scenes adds to this. Even in the most extreme action scenes where 
 the developers of other games would take control of the character so as to guide it through the 
 intensity while making him look cool, you get to control your character through every intense scene, 
 no matter what. The decisions you make are what makes the character, not what the developers want 
 it to be. This is definitely the coolest and most unique feature of the game, among other things 
 which I am too lazy to write about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bragkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  i think with the bonus of great graphics and great physics add to the just great series of half 
 life you would have to undoubtedly say it is one the the greatest games ever made. one thing that 
 made me mad was how you could play through the whole game and not have to use the gravity gun once. some 
 people say it has good physics. it dosnt. it has AMAZING physics buy know if you havnt already. i 
 liked the pc version better than the xbox version to let you know. blah blah blah a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashaiba91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my faves...
  Great graphics for its time. AMAZING story. AMAZING gameplay.
  
  Only negative is that is expanision 
 pack. i hate how no store sells it. i dont wanna buy a game of the internet....
  
  the game has an amazing story, with an unperdictable ending. the game keeps you questionig, great 
 for people who like apocalptyic games and furutistic games.
  
  
  buy this game! dont u dare pirate or get this game from bittorrent cuase it doesnt deserve it and 
 you wont be able to enjoy the great mods and multiplayer options
  
  what else can i say.. o yea another negative is the poor choice of weapons. there r barly any guns 
 in the game. i like variety... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - Graphics
  - Sounds
  - mods
  - Mutliplayer
  - Great value
  - Good length
  - Gravity Gun
  - Playing HL2 on Garrys mod
  - Scales well on nearly every 
 machine even the Geforce 5200 can play it well.
  
  cons:
  
  - Weapons feel dated
  - Doesn't quite liveup to HL
  - Health system + looking for health packs.
  
  Don't get me 
 wrong HL2 is a fantastic game with a amazing mod community which really makes the purchase worth 
 it. Included at the time with CSS and then further down the line with HL2DM it was a great value 
 package. Now you'll get even more for your money with the original HL included as HL source, even 
 though it wasn't the graphical upgrade we wanted and Episode one too then you can't really fault 
 the money you pay for it. I think the Orange pack is coming soon with all these games and Episode 
 2 and TF2 aswel so it just gets even better.
  
  When you first play HL2 you notice the attension to detail with the game and while it's abit linear 
 the game gives you enough freedom to be creative. I urge everyone to buy Garrys mod aswel because 
 you can play through HL2 making alot of kool things. The first part of the game is really immersive 
 and while not as memorable as HL's it's still fantastic.
  
  The levels are quite open and epic also the mix between driving and shooting is a perfect balance 
 most the way through the game. I don't think theres a level in the game that isn't different than 
 before offering new gameplay experiences. You'll never feel like it's repetitive or boring and 
 the games at a nice length not being at all short but somehow keeping the fun. The whole game just 
 keeps that great standard all the way through but my personal faves are the opening stages and 
 the beach levels. Also the extra deleted level you get as a bonus which was made into a HDR tech 
 demo the lost coast was also great fun and worth a play.
  
  The weapons in HL2 are probably the worst thing about it because they're the same as HL which feel 
 quite dated now. The only new addition to the game was the gravity gun which just offers sooo much 
 and new gameplay and fun. There are some gravity gun puzzles in the game too and being able to 
 pickup objects and use them as cover is also really fun.
  
  Also i'm not a fan of the health system but they had to keep the original format for the story 
 because it wouldn't make much sense changing it. though looking for health packs can get quite 
 annoying somehow it wont take away on the gameplay much. I love the sounds of Half-Life 2 because 
 the enemy radios are quite fun to listen to also the sound effects are really nice. My faves are 
 the whale sounding sirens of the combine which for some reason just turn me on lol. Also you'll 
 get some music that plays which is quite nice and all upto the standard of the game.
  
  The source engine in the game still makes for alot of great graphics and cosntantly being improved 
 in patches even for the original HL2 game which is nice. You'll notice it scales nicely even on 
 old systems and sooo much detail in the game. It still doesn't even feel dated nearly 4 years after 
 it was sposed to be released but 3 years after it was released.
  
  All the characters are nice and there are some old faves for fans of the original game. The GMAN 
 is still a mystery to who he is and what his role is in the game, HL2 ends on a cliff hanger so 
 you still wont know. Maybe in Episode 3 they'll let it out or will we have to wait for a completly 
 new engine game to find out? There are some people who believe GMAN is G ordon free MAN but that 
 could just be a trick valve want you to think.
  
  So with all the mods still coming out for the game and the great package of extra games you get 
 including CSS you'll have a long lasting experience. I know i'm still playing HL mods and still 
 playing CSS even after all these years. Probably the best value packages out there and if you havn't 
 purchased HL2 on steam then do so now because you wont be disappointed. For some reason though 
 i still prefer playing through HL, it just feels all that much better but maybe thats my nostalgia 
 for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawSushiSociety
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  A truly brilliant game. It actually puts you into the action all the time while adding little puzzles 
 along the way. The enimies inspire awe and hatred at the same time with mysteries still to be solved. 
 Truly an amazing game with much more to offer with its new expansions. Weapons are just as amazing 
 as the game is. Especially with a gun that lets you pick up objects and fling them around. Also 
 the physics of the game are phenominal. You can pick up and plastic cup and fling it at the enemy, 
 and it will, in turn, do no damage. But you can pick up a harpoon and impale the enemy up against 
 the wall. Go out and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaTa9192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  IT was 10 years after the black mesa incident....... you start with the mysterious Gman talking 
 to you........... then you wake up in a train....
  
  Yep.. its half life all over again... you with your trusty sidekick... Crow bar!
  
  Graphics 9/10
 
  
  Although this game was made at 2004... the graphics are still amazing..... In this game i can play 
 around with the environment. move boxes around, even use barrels as shields...... later in the game 
 you even get a 'Gravity Gun' which can grab things and shoot them at enemys
  
  Game play 10/10
  
  Whether you like killing zombies, headcrabs or combine which are new types 
 of enemys [aliens/hmans or whatever in suits] this always stay fun.
  Different environments all over the game... and there are no levels... this game is level free... except 
 for some loading times... This game is quite long... about 15-18 hours for new/no-experience players... and 
 for pros about 10-14 hours The game consist of action, horror, and lots of other stuff
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  The sound is great!!!... there are good soundtracks... and the voice acting is 
 good... The guns in this game sound like how they should...
  
  Replayability 10/10
  
  Huh?? Finished the game??? Then download some mods..... i recommend the S-mod where you get extra 
 weapons and bullet time mode.... or G-Mod where you are in a nice sandbox to do funny stuff [gman&amp; barney 
 dancing.. alyx and a zombie kissing... etc etc] And don't forget the multiplayer.... Half life 2 comes 
 with HL2 Deathmatch and Counterstrike.
  
   graphics to sound.. to gameplay... just everything
  
  CONS: Needs 
 a better story..
  
  Overall this is a great game... JUST BUY IT......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrkHammer007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I played Half-Life soon after I got my first PC; the game-play was incredibly different from Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein (which I had finished shortly beforehand) , and the variety of weapons was 
 truly impressive. Needless to say, I looked forward to playing it's successor, and I found it mostly 
 satisfying.
  
  The biggest issue I have with HL2 is just installing it: while the actual files took about 15 minutes 
 to load from the disk, it took another 45 minutes to activate it with my glitchy internet connection 
 (something the designers should have anticipated, given that dial-up connections were still pretty 
 common in 2004, HL2's year of release) . The fact that Steam continues to check the validity of 
 my purchase just makes me even more irritated.
  
  Once I finally began playing, however, Steam stopped bothering me, and I found myself immersed 
 in the convoluted, worn-out dystopian City 17, it's despondent denizens (with faces so well-rendered 
 you'd swear they were real people: you can actually see the despair and fear in their eyes, the 
 wrinkles on their faces, and the 4'o'clock shadows on unshaven faces) , and the incredibly subtle 
 dread that hangs over the entire game. Physics puzzles, boat and buggy rides, wild shoot-outs with 
 zombies and Combine soldiers... the only thing missing were the incredible weapons from HL and 
 Opposing Force...
  
  ... that, and the length of the game. Point blank, it's too short. After less than 2 weeks of play, 
 and an abrupt, anti-climactic ending sequence, I felt somewhat cheated compared to the week I spent 
 on the end-game of HL. I understand that Episode 1 and (hopefully) 2 will add more storyline to 
 the core game, but it still feels as if HL2 were somehow abruptly cut off.
  
  If you are going to get HL2, do yourself a huge favor: find a combo-pack with some of the other 
 HL2 spin-offs (like HL: Source or Episode 1) included; otherwise, you'll be done before you feel 
 like you even started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reece_Boosh
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is a technically incredible game. Id go as far to say it was the Crysis of 2004. Visually, 
 it still impresses now, putting direct x 9 through its paces, with some impressive results. The 
 games greatest technical achievement, in my humble opinion, is the physics engine. There are literally 
 minutes of fun to be had from watching a room full of explosive barrels and boxes gradually disintegrate 
 under a barrage of grenades. Of course, more recent games (such as Fear and Bioshock) are far more 
 technically impressive on the higher end systems, but Half-life 2s age just means that people 
 with less expensive gaming systems can see it in all its glory. Depending on what kind of rig 
 your sitting on, really dictates what kind of experience youll get out of Half-life 2. If youve 
 just finished Bioshock, then this will probably come as a disappointment. Much of what the game 
 has to offer has been bettered by more recent titles, and the components that dont date  such 
 as the narrative  are fairly weak and exist only to justify the action rather than push the player 
 forward. Plus if you fancy heading online, for some death matching prepare to be under whelmed. 
 However, Half-life 2s success in one area in particular, helps to encourage a purchase (if you 
 havent already) all this time on. The atmosphere that is created is simply incredible. Any fan 
 of Metroid will know how import atmosphere can be. The game opens and ends from the perspective 
 of Morgan  sorry, Gordon  Freeman with no movement from the first person perspective throughout 
 the game. Your point of entry to the world of Half-life 2  a world several years hence that has 
 been conquered by some unknown force  is through a train station and to city 17. How Gordon got 
 on that train is unclear to anyone who never played the original. Suffice to say, Gordon has been 
 moved through time and space by an exceptionally enigmatic character clad in a blue suit. You enter 
 city 17 through the train station, and very quickly see that something is amiss. Once you get out 
 into the open City, you see a backward world where modern technology meets ageing architecture 
 and sci-fi robots. The dystopian world of City 17  which you only pass through briefly before 
 being singled out and chased half-way across the country  is an unnervingly believable depiction 
 of fallen humanity. Propaganda echoes about the streets from the giant Screens, and hovering robots 
 take photos of you if you stray of the beaten track. More cameras sit on long poles surrounding 
 transparent barriers, blocking your access to sensitive areas. Its all very 1984, especially 
 when you start sprinting through peoples homes and over hear snippets of conversations, as you 
 try to escape the police. And the atmosphere continues in a variety of ways. Either by riding a 
 hovercraft away from a pursuing helicopter, or moving through an abandoned town, filled with zombies 
 and head crabs (head crabs latch on to peoples faces take control of their host, with disturbing 
 results) . The time you spend in the infamous hazard suit of Gordon Freeman, is thrilling, filmic 
 and varied, leading to a very memorable experience. However, the experience is not all-together 
 satisfying. The game suffers from surprisingly long and frequent loading times when compared with 
 more recent games, and so much of the games more enjoyable moments are scripted that replaying 
 levels can become tiresome. Repetition becomes a real theme with Half-life 2, with you dispatching 
 the same enemies in the same places with the same weapons. And the sudden end to the game encourages 
 the purchase of the samey Episode one. Aside from the disappointing lack of replay-ability the 
 game has a lot to offer for the first (and most likely penultimate) play through. And for only 
 &pound;15:00 on dvd. co. uk with the original and Episode One, its a bit of a steal.
  
  
  As a side note, youll need an internet connection to play most versions of this game, as it checks 
 that your copy is valid throughout your use even on single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  I should bought this when it came out years ago. I kept putting it off until now. The graphics, 
 soundtrack, &amp; story are very well done. It still rivals many of the top new shooters that are 
 out today. It has made me drop GRAW &amp; 6 Vegas. I got a combo pack from Steam &amp; I have been 
 busy ever since. If you don't have it what are you waiting for. Half-Life I was great but this 
 is definitely an instant classic. It's not an editors choice for nothing.
  
  The Good: Graphics, soundtrack, &amp; storyline. It will pull you in, much like the original. The 
 Bad: AI is not the most challenging, but fun. Not enough is wrong to really complain about it. 
 Took to long to come out originally, hence my slow pace to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  I have played many shooters before like Halo, Call of Duty, and Wolfenstein,
  but no shooter compares to Half Life 2. From the start Half Life 2 drops you off in this life like 
 world. Every thing seems so real and what is even better is that Half Life 2 has a great story. 
 You go through cool looking environments and fight some pretty cool looking enemies. There are 
 some aw some weapons in Half Life 2 like the gravity gun that allows you to pick up things and 
 throw them at enemies and the bug bait that attracts ant lions and if you throw the bug bait at 
 an enemies the ant lions which are these giant bugs will swarm on him and kill him. There are few 
 problems with Half Life 2 . The game is kind of short and some people may be able to go through 
 it in 10 hours or so. Half life 2 from start to finish is an aw some game and will keep you entertained 
 through. For any person that likes shooters you must play Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflashxwmc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I have quite a lot to say about this game: most of it good. First of all, was one of the games 
 that I tested on good systems that eventually convinced me to build a worthy computer (the other 
 was Far Cry) . There are so many things that Valve did right that sometimes I felt myself saying: 
 stop already! What else can be done that hasn't already? - it is that good. Here are a couple of 
 good points I noticed about the game:
  
  - The borders in the world don't feel unnatural like most games
  -The levels are interwoven- 
 and there is a good amount of variety in the locale the game takes the player through
  - Able to move practically anything in the environment with realistic physics and collisions
 
  -Hard to quit playing- without load screens and a good action pace
  -The game can be minimized with windows key + m - this is a very important feature that I've noticed 
 newer games aren't providing
  -All surfaces reflect ambient light and overall lighting and effects seem are hard to distinguish 
 from reality sometimes
  -Put the player in the protagonist's shoes - no annoying talking from the main character
  
 
  Here are some areas that could be a bit better:
  
  -The game is realistic, but there are no light switch details in houses?
  -Short draw distance: 
 really a shame since everything else looks so real
  -Lights are not interactive: I don't know if this game was made before hdr was perfected, but light 
 sources never move and lights can't be shot out Most of the cons are minor and don't really take 
 away from the main gameplay. -The enemy AI seems intelligent enough, although I've heard others 
 complain, and the fights are varied between short distance, long distance, and group combat. This 
 game mixes reality with sci-fi which only makes it that much more believable. The difficulty was 
 a bit too easy at times and the ability to save anywhere sometimes feels a little cheap. The game 
 was never too hard though, and always managed to keep me coming back for more. As for the replay 
 value: this game really provides a lot. The fact that the game is loaded straight from the hard 
 drive is good for online play and there are a boatload of servers. The mod community is also huge 
 and the editor is really a thing of beauty. This game is a classic because it is so different from 
 everything else. It's not just a form of cheap hardcore killing like other fps's. The story is 
 believable and the good character acting is noticeable. This game really feels like an epic- and 
 right now it seems like the impact of the game still hasn't gone away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sikzak
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  First I would like to say that this (and Half-Life) are my favorite games of all time (period)
 
  
  The gameplay is simply awesome! It's source, and that means it has one of the best gameplay on 
 PC. A lot of this is all because of source engine's psychics, which are the most realistic to date, 
 this of course gives great ragdolls which never F**K up, and the shooting is very satisfying. The 
 visuals (graphics) are simply amazing, and it came out on 2004! They are very detailed, and have 
 really good lighting, I would say more realistic than what X360 and PS3 has to offer, when you 
 talk about realistic shadows/lighting. And it is great that they didn't put some a extremely well 
 done 3D movie in here to make the visuals look a bit worse, everything is in game and looks absolutely 
 fantastic. And the explosions look amazing.
  
  The sounds are also very well done and realistic, the voice actors/actresses chosen for this game 
 are right about the best choice you could ever find. The shooting sounds and explosions are also 
 very great, the gun sounds fits very well for gun and the gun's size, and the explosions sound 
 very good too!
  
  There's a really good 'value' in this game, why you ask? Simply because of a great story, great 
 gameplay, great visuals, great sound/voice acting and as in the first Half-Life: it full of tiny 
 little details, which you have no chance of finding the first time you play the = good replay value.
 
  
  All in all: BUY IT, IT'S ABSOLUTELY AMAZINGLY GREAT. (period) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  This is going to be a look back at Half-Life 2. This will be my fifth time completing the single 
 player element of the game which does include all patch updates and their resulting bugs and bug 
 fixes. I hope that the review I write for this comes out sounding unbiased and uninfluenced by 
 any of the other things which normally plague my reviews.
  
  I will start off by pointing out that I have had some bad luck with this game and crashes in the 
 past. The system that I'm running is more than strong enough to handle the Source Engine at a crisp 
 and consitant frame rate. However, I often let the drivers lapse, and as a result, the game crashed 
 a few times. Even some of the drivers have been a bit buggy but I've got a stable enough set up 
 for now.
  
  Enough semantics, on to the review.
  
  This game has a masterfully done story. The cast of characters and the intriguing story twists 
 were more than enough to keep me playing. The game begins with an odd close-up shot of the infamous 
 G-Man who left us dangling in the end of the first game. His speech makes several strange implications 
 including that you were, in some way, being kept out of time and space. It also states that you 
 are being placed in your current scenario by forces that are somehow pulling his strings. They 
 also did an amazing work with his voice over, giving the player the distinct impression that an 
 earthly tounge is something to which he isn't very accustom. The G-Man fades away and you're left 
 on a train to City 17 . You come in with very little time left on the ride and you can already 
 tell by the other characters' jumpsuits and worried faces that you aren't in Kansas anymore. Your 
 first step off the train and the gorgeous Source engine smacks you in the face with a total Police 
 State. There are menacing looking, armed guards at every turn and everyone either looks mentally 
 defeated or terribly worried. Obviously, this brave new world isn't what it should be. To cap it 
 all off there are several massive video screens broadcasting Dr. Breen, a man labeled as the former 
 head of the Black Mesa facility from the original Half-Life, delivering a specious speech about 
 City 17. Shortly hereafter you are reunited with a face from the past: Barney! Our loveable, gung-ho 
 Black Mesa security guard friend. Since there were several who aided you in the first game there's 
 no way of telling which is which and his name was actually taken from the player model rather than 
 an actual character. Either way, you are also re-aquainted with Dr. Kleiner, and Judith Mossman 
 from Black Mesa whom you (disputably) met shortly before and after the test chamber incident. You 
 also get to meet a few other survivors including one of the best female extras ever placed in a 
 video game: Alex Vance. She's a crucial secondary character who helps out Gordon Freeman in some 
 very big ways. As you push deeper into the game you push deeper into the story as well. You find 
 out that something possibly pretaining to the alien invasion you had to combat at Black Mesa carried 
 out a massive invasion in your absence. They took over, attacking the planet and Dr. Breen became 
 humanity's savior by folding faster than Superman on laundry day. Now the invaders are human kind's 
 benefactors and have decided to herd people into these delapidated ghettos which seem to echo the 
 Nazi's treatment in parts of Europe. The new enemy that rears its head in this game is referred 
 to as The Combine. They're a detestable lot, clad in uniform jumpsuits and some kind of gas mask. 
 They weild machine guns and other weaponry and are, at times, assisted by massive bio-mechanical 
 creatures that seem to be part insect and part vessel. Granted, without spoiling the game for the 
 few of you who haven't finished it yet but plan on it, the ending is quite a downer and fails to 
 answer even a single question from either game and it is a little short, it's still entertaining 
 enough for me.
  
  Since the game is done completely from the first person perspective and there are no real cut-scenes 
 to speak of the game does an incredible job of keeping you in the moment and at the center of all 
 that affects Gordon. This is an excellent touch, and with a good enough PC the only real loading 
 screen is the initial one. The game discreetly pieces the game's massive world together and every 
 so often you hit a little hesitation but nothing else. Now that isn't to say that the AI characters 
 don't have plenty of scripted animations and a ton of well acted dialouge (because they do) . But 
 through all of that you are still granted complete control of Gordon. You can even walk away and 
 explore the rest of a room while the AI stands there and does its best to face you as you wander.
 
  
  This brings us to the Source engine. I've already said it is a beautiful graphics engine, what 
 I didn't mention was the corresponding physics model. This is both the game's blessing and its 
 curse. It is a blessing because more than once you are called upon to solve puzzles using the game's 
 physics. These are just weight distribution on large scale levers, but it is a nice way to showcase 
 this feature. It is a curse because I have noticed that during this most recent run I was actually 
 victimized on more than one occasion by the physics and some spotty collision detection. There 
 is a part that seems to be a scene right out of tremors. These large bug monsters will attack you 
 if they sense your vibrations from stepping on the sand under which they live. You can use the 
 game's Gravity Gun (a large device that can push, pull, and lift heavier objects from a distance) 
 to pick up debris such as busted doors, wood palletes, and discarded pieces of sheet metal and 
 make a path for yourself. Often you find yourself taking only a couple of pieces with you and turning 
 to pick up the last one as you step onto the next. I have had occasions where I stepped on something 
 that stayed still under me multiple times before and it just slid away from me or I place something 
 safely on the ground only to watch it bounce wildly away because of a spotty collision it detected 
 with the ground. I've also had a couple of moments of getting stuck on top of small things on the 
 ground which should have been otherwise pushed aside by my movements. On a rare occasion I actually 
 watched as a dead Combine officer actually passed through a solid wall and out of sight. Aside 
 from this they also add in some great little touches here and there such as a very small scale 
 transporter model in Dr. Kleiner's lab. It has two pads set up and you can actually set something 
 on the active pad (say, one of the loose books nearby or the cactus which was placed there when 
 you first see it) and actually teleport it back and forth between the pads. You can pick up and 
 break bottles and throw just about anything in the environment that isn't nailed down so-to-speak. 
 The sticky parts are still enough of an annoyance this time around that they bear mentioning.
 
  
  The Source Physics Engine also gives rise to a new feature in Half-Life 2 which works quite well. 
 The addition of two vehicles: A sort of home-made swamp boat and a similarly built automobile. 
 Now these are not things to which you are granted unrestricted access. Each is only available for 
 its respective part of the game. The handling of the two vehicles is impressive enough, handled 
 largely by the physics engine. The W, A, S, and D keys are your primary movement and steering controls 
 and the mouse is only used to aim and fire each vehicle's mounted weapon (or look around, since 
 the boat's weapon is only equipped later on in your run) . On the plus side, the level designers 
 did an impressive job of constructing the vehicles' sections to exploit them. Each features some 
 unique challenges through which you are expect to maneuver. The boat sections in particular feature 
 a lot of insanes stunts and some portions calling for split second maneuvering on your behalf (which 
 feel incredibly gratifying if you succeed without incident) . Some of the jumps in the boat sections 
 are almost inhuman. I mean, what's the fun of running through a fictional boat area without some 
 equally fictitious stunts, right? The car's section isn't as crazy as the boat section and it features 
 several portions which require you to exit your vehicle and find a way to remove Combine road blocks, 
 clear the way, or cope with other types of threats. On the whole this is a nice touch to help move 
 the story along and get you from location to location in the game.
  
  Turning to the Combine AI... this is a real low point in the game. Enemy AI is pathetic at best. 
 Their use of cover is questionable, often making it appear more like hiding than making use of 
 a strategic vantage point. Either that or they just don't use cover and will mindlessly attack 
 you until you waste them. Granted, they do use grenades to flush you out or attempt to do massive 
 damage from a distance. However, they are just too easy and the only real threat they pose is when 
 they attack in large numbers. They are so unaware of their surroundings at times that you can actually 
 sucker them into the sticky tounges of the creatures that hang from the ceiling. Later on in the 
 game the human resistance rises up against Dr. Breen and the tyrannical rule of his so-called Benefactors 
 in a full scale revolt. During your part in this you are often accompanied by a squad of people. 
 Prior to this you are also given control of a small number of large bugs you get to use as attack 
 dogs. You have full control over this squad and can issue simple commands which equate to go where 
 I am pointing or come back here . They should have given these mindless drones a get the hell out 
 of my way command. I expected the bugs to be mindless and overly simple, but there is no excuse 
 for the humans to be so stupid. If you make a wrong turn and end up in a small room or alcove of 
 sorts (or even one of the rooms or out-of-the-way places used as a supply point) your AI squadmates 
 will pile on top of the doorway, effectively blocking you in. They do occasionally apologize for 
 blocking you and try to get out of the way, but it's usually too little too late. If it weren't 
 for the medics (who can heal you) they would only be useful at times as cannon fodder. Now, in 
 all fairness, they do shoot well enough. There are times when you have to fight massive insects 
 that act as tank-like vehciles called Striders and the other squad members weilding rocket launchers 
 are comepetent enough to help here, but you often find yourself losing squad members because they 
 don't seek cover or follow you into situations only you could cope with anyway. And their tendency 
 to stick so closely together makes them an easy target for grenades. The squad was an ambitious 
 idea and it serves it purpose, but I'm not too upset about not being given access to this feature 
 more often.
  
  The sound is another excellent part. The combine employ devices known as man-hacks , flying garbage 
 disposer blades with cameras attached and their appearance is often foreshadowed by the sound of 
 their sensors beeping and their blades whirring through the air. When they hit walls or other parts 
 of the environment your treated to the sound of the blades grinding into whatever they hit, as 
 well as a shower of sparks. This also screws up their movement, knocking them off course and disrupting 
 their actions. Another excellent touch. Also, at times, you are forced to cope with snipers who 
 have tucked themselves away inside open windows. You have to sneak up close to the window, using 
 cover since they can hit you so easily, and lob in a grenade. Listen to some of their comments 
 when you lob one in. Succesfull combine kills are accompanied with an audible death rattle and 
 their vital monitors flatlining. Dr. Breen's messages to the people also echo hauntingly in open 
 courtyards adding a subtle, but much appreciated ambience to the streets already filled with broken 
 down, terrified civillians.
  
  The dead bodies all go rag-doll upon dying which helps to add a grim sort of reality to their demise. 
 This is backed up with some viscious directional blood spatter on walls and other surrounding surfaces. 
 Other than that killing enemies is killing enemies. It's fairly well executed, but sometimes the 
 unexpected hang up occurs and you can get bodies propped up on a flopping arm or other similar 
 obstruction. Even the smallest of enemies (head humpers) are given the rag doll treatment, which 
 helps to preserve the consistancy of everything.
  
  There are times, particularly towards the end where you are truly part of a cut-scene and are forced 
 to just go along for the ride. Granted, you are physically restrained so it almost gives the villains 
 this sort of Bond Bad Guy feel as you are forced to sit and listen to their long winded (but very 
 well acted) speeches.
  
  In the end this game is incredibly well made but it does have plenty of flaws that give its detractors 
 plenty of ammo. Among them the occasionally spotty collision detection, terribly unsatisfying ending, 
 and the fact that this ending gets there way too quickly. I was quite pleased with this game from 
 all my initial impressions but the more I replayed it the more I realized that it is far from perfect. 
 It is quite the solid effort, and it is worthy of some praise, but I feel that the terrible ending 
 (which is nothing more than an obvious set-up for the next Half-Life game) capping the otherwise 
 excellent story was a crucial weak point. Also, the game's length was a tremendous let down. They 
 could have added so much more to the story. It could have been stretched out a lot farther than 
 it was. At the very least they could have made it a little more difficult. Not only was it short 
 but the lack-luster AI allowed you to breeze through it. The game itself had some brilliant points, 
 but with it being so short there's almost no time to enjoy them. So, in the end, I have to say 
 the media hype behind this title, and it's often glowing reviews built up an expectation for this 
 game which I feel it failed to fully meet due almost exclusively to its disappointingly short play 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: error11
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game, simply, is awesome. The physics, graphics, story, controls and immersivness (if that 
 was a word) . The physics are great, everything has a believable weight and size. The physics play 
 a big part in this game so they are important. There is even an entire level devoted to physics 
 and even an entire game that uses half life 2 physics. The graphics are great, even for a low end 
 system (such as mine, which has a Nvidia TnT 2, which is ancient) . Story is amazing and you feel 
 like your actually in the game, like when one of my allies smiled at me, I actually smiled back 
 because I was so into the game. The controls are great and you can interact with A LOT of the objects 
 in this game. This game is an amazing achievement in the gaming industry and you should definitely 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icy06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 has an amazing story, for me this is the best part about the game. Even if you haven't 
 played HL1 (like me) it is still easy to pick up and understand what is going on.
  
  Even though the game is getting old, the graphics are still top notch. The good thing is that the 
 engine is well optimised, so you don't need to have a monster of a machine to enjoy what this game 
 has to offer.
  
  You will find yourself ending up in many interesting locations from City17, Ravenholm, prisons, 
 beaches and even a citadel. All have a unique feel to them and look great.
  
  The combat is exciting and always fresh. The gravity gun is an interesting physics weapon, that 
 hasn't really been seen in other games. The AI is quite smart IE, enemies duck for cover, move 
 out of the way of your grenades, etc.
  
  This is one of the few games that hook you from beginning to end and keep you interested. If you 
 have not played this game by now, you owe it to yourself as a PC gamer to buy it :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  This is the sequel to one of the greatest PC games of all time. It also took 6 years to be released 
 but I can see why it took ages to develop. Much of the original HL gameplay is here plus a new 
 feature- vehicles. The gameplay is perfect, whether it be fighting Combine soldiers and Civil Protection 
 in big gun battles, slaughtering zombies in the creepy Ravenholm chapter or cruising along the 
 water avoiding enemies shots in the airboat. Theres just so much gameplay in HL2! Perfect.
  Thanks to a great story line, HL2 lets you fight in a great number of different places. This will 
 include navigating through the outskirts of City 17 in the kanals, going along the water and stopping 
 off at bases in the airboat, driving along the coast, fighting in an abandoned prison, and then 
 making your way back to City 17. What an adventure.
  The characters in the game are ultra-realistic, they react like a real person would and even their 
 face expressions are realistic thanks to movement and amazing graphics. As well as that, they are 
 finalised with some excellent voice-acting.
  HL2 is powered by the Source engine. The environments feel very real compared to alot of engines. 
 The graphics look fantastic on the highest resolutions and details, especially the charcters and 
 enemies and water effects. Thanks to Source, HL2 boasts the most realistic physics in a game to 
 date still. Virtually everything moves like it should do in real life like- even objects from the 
 game that float in real life, float in HL2! All the enemies and friends have some decent rag-doll 
 deaths too. You dont even need a great PC to get a good frame rate out of HL2 thanks to the resolution 
 options and DirectX 7 option. You can get the game to run smooth at virtually highest on a PC with 
 a 2.6GHz processor and a GeForce FX5500 card.
  The game has a new challenge around every corner. The gameplay is literally non-linear in my opinion. 
 There are some great weapons too. There are most of the original weapons plus the pheropods which 
 are fun and the amazing gravity gun which lets you lift up objects not bolted down and launch them 
 at enemies. Its also handy as a tool suprisingly.
  The only real bad points of this game are the dissapointing ending (Im not saying) and music (it 
 plays at certain points of the game) which is mainly this stupid techno thing which doesnt suit. 
 Steam is also annoying-its a program that, oh dont get me started.
  So if your a PC gamer you MUST own this game. Its not my faveourite FPS of all time but its an 
 instant classic that you NEED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zable13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  half life 2 rocks i d liked playing it very much i think if you have never played half life 2 you 
 haven't played anything this game has all sorts of guns cool effects scary scenes great graphic 
 and and a great story it is :D very good I hope there will be half life 3 so hope ? any other **** 
 imitating half life will never look beter than half life 2 so if heard anything about half life 
 2 you shod try it out !!! anyway there are more games than half life I don't say that you shod 
 be playing and playing only half life 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Three years after HL2 first came out, the game still stands on its own in virtually every aspect.
 
  
  The story is good, even for someone like me that didn't really play the first Half-Life. You are 
 Gordon Freeman, a fugitive on the loose looking for a scientist, aided by a group of freedom fighters, 
 resisting an alien occupying force. It's pretty complicated, especially if you haven't played HL1, 
 but it's good. Very good.
  
  The graphics are still some of the best out in the business. Maybe not technically superior as 
 of today, but stylistically it's very good. Greatly detailed though somewhat dated texturing, and 
 everything looks very clean, and well done. It's still a beautiful game on all levels, which is 
 astounding considering the game is three years old.
  
  The gameplay mixes firefights and puzzles. Most puzzles are simple, and many rely on the game's 
 physics engine, one of the first major titles to use physics extensively. Firefights are quick 
 and brutal. Enemies can kill you fast if you don't play your cards right. The AI is simply some 
 of the best ever. They run, hide, sneak up on you, etc, which makes for some tense and exciting 
 battles.
  
  Also, the game mixes up the pacing, which makes for a nice change. You aren't just running from 
 one place to another. There are story breaks, chases on an airboat or buggy (the airboat chase 
 is one of the greatest scenes in gaming history) , then it can be slow-paced, fighting zombies, 
 etc. The variety is amazing, and none of it feels gimicky.
  
  The only downside may be the sound. They're simplistic, but the voice-acting is awesome.
  
 
  Anyway, the game is superb. I recommend this game whole-heartedly. You might wait for the Orange 
 Box if you have a 360 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  This game has one of the best graphics (at it's release) then any other game. Half Life 1, also 
 had some of the best graphics in the 1990's. If you are looking for a fun, challenging, game, Half 
 Life 2 if for you.
  
  The story line in this game gets you hooked. You don't want to leave your mouse, because you want 
 to know what happens next.
  
  Graphics, are indeed, the best of 2004 (or whenever it came out) Character details, textures, and 
 life like emotions are all in this game.
  If you have a high graphics card, then you would want to see how much different this game looks. 
 From great, to amazing
  
  Sound in this game sounds just like the real world. Explosions, the voice acting, and gun noises, 
 and more! Is this worth your money? Of course! If you want the best FPS series to date, then this 
 is your game.
  
  This game can be fairly easy, and sometimes it can be confusing. 3 types of difficulties make you 
 want to go easy, then a bit trickyer, and then all out tough. This game is always challenging and 
 fun. It is also worth your money, and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylan322
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a great game that exceeded my expectations. The unbelievable graphics (Which are 
 still the best I've ever seen in a game) were exciting to play with. Also, the A. I. was another 
 fun thing to play with, due to how great it was. It acted slow on some levels which made it very 
 hard to line up a shot. On some levels it was almost impossible to find health. One of my favorite 
 things about this game was the amount of cheats to use. All the way from all weapons to invincibility. 
 Also, the new gravity gun made breaking boxes and dissecting zombies very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is not only better than it predecessor, its arguably better than every single one of 
 its competitors. The worlds in single player are vast, but you wont fell burdoned, with dune buggys 
 and boats to get you going. The firefights are awesome, and even include some sequences with a 
 little squad based action. The story is immersive as Gordon Freeman tries to foil the plots of 
 an old scientific adversary. The physics of the game set it apart from many. Being able to move 
 almost anything to your advatage really opens up how you play and progress through the game. Graphics 
 are aw inspiring, making sure that the game doesn't lack in any shape or form. There are alot of 
 sounds leading you to feel like your in the game instead of just playing it. The music is just 
 great, matching the mood to sometimes scare you to death or make you feel like a one bad dude. 
 The only beef i have with the game is that it does seem a bit challenging considering you may die 
 a few times and return to a certain check point before finally getting it just right to progress. 
 I just hope that more games in this genre take some from this game and begin to reinvent the entire 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristopherBohl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that aHalf-Life 2 is the best first person shooter I have ever played. It 
 starts with the story. The G-man sends Gordon back to Earth roughly ten years after the original. 
 He is in eastern Europe and is in city 17. He is met by Barney and regarded as a hero. The earth 
 is under control of the combine, an alien race that controlled the zen. The solution is of course, 
 bullets. The gameplay is generic FPS gameplay but it the most polished I have ever played. There 
 is a variety of enemies and weapons to shoot them with. Then comes the games great innovation, 
 the gravity gun. With the right mouse button you pick up objects and withe the left you shoot them 
 away. Almost everything can be interacted with and this leads to some great physics puzzles and 
 combat tactics. There is a variety of environments including a creepy rural village, beaches, the 
 city and a sci-fi prison. The graphics are advanced and the world is detailed. The character models 
 are rendered beautifully too. The script and voice acting are great and the music comes in at just 
 the right time that when combined with the graphics create a world that is truly imersive. If I 
 had to complain I would say it is a bit to easy and I would have liked it to be longer but these 
 few short falls are really out of place. Valve has pulled of shooting on a grand scale and Half-Life 
 2 is truly worthy of being a sequel to Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps if I was not already PC gaming (for several years) at the time of the original Half-Life's 
 release, I'd be inclined to give this game a higher score. But such is the case when one has justifiably 
 lofty expectations for a sequel. (Not just any sequel, but a follow-up to one of the great games 
 of all-time) This isn't to say Half-Life 2 isn't a superb gaming experience, cuz it definitely 
 is one. But, for all it's glory, the game does have several shortcomings. First and foremost, The 
 AI pales in comparison to the original's; and by today's standards is just short of being classified 
 as lame. Also, this time around, the game play seems slowed by the presence of SO many puzzles. 
 After around the 6th or 7th one, I was like- OK Valve, I totally get your Source engine's enhancements 
 to game physics, and they rock. But do I really need another puzzle to show them off to me? (Yes, 
 the original has lots of puzzles too, but that was '98) Another nitpick, for me, was the presence 
 of a Tau Cannon mounted on the Dune buggy. Did Valve want me to get off the buggy or not?! Anyone 
 with previous HL experience knows: The Tau, when used in the alt-fire mode, shoots through walls, 
 barrels (etc) , after a brief charge-up and release . It's a very, very lethal weapon!! I killed 
 most of the shack dwellers along Highway 17 before ever getting off my ride. The Alt-fire when 
 used with the suit-zoom feature, also made it an effective car-mounted sniping weapon. Too easy! 
 (so I then went back and re-played the sequence supposedly the way it was designed to be done, 
 by stopping and exiting the vehicle, and manually clearing the buildings on foot for a greater 
 challenge) . My final nitpick was the presence of infinitely spawning foes in some locations. I'd 
 prefer a fixed number, even if it's 100, just let me kill 'em all and move on, not waste my time 
 (and ammo) in one place until I realise that if I sit here all day- they'll still keep coming. 
 Lastly, when the game did get a bit more difficult, said difficulty felt forced by limiting my 
 cover options such as when a Helicopter or Gunship attacks, and I only have a point A, B, and maybe 
 a C, to move back and forth to, and from behind, while firing.
  
  All of that being said, Half-Life 2 is still a highly immersive and addictive game experience that 
 no one should miss. It is truly a Must-Play! Scroll-down to the review by user More_Dakka. In my 
 opinion, he has really nailed it. Flawed as it may be, its still a good follow-up to an All-time 
 Great; and based on it's own merits, is an Instant Classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  YAY! I finally bought this game. It came out several years ago but the graphics/engine are still 
 amazing. It never drops below 45 fps showing how well optimized the game is. The story mode takes 
 about 15-20 hours to beat and is packed with intense game play. Multiplayer very is fun, especially 
 with friends. Mods and updates are free and will keep you playing this game longer than you think 
 you should. Sound are very immersing and the physics in this game are amazing. Weapons and animations 
 are smooth. It runs on max with vista, 2gb ram and an 8600m gt, which his a laptop card. To date, 
 this is my favorite shooter on PC. Great steal for $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Who doesn't know about Half-life at this point? The series started at a very high point with the 
 original Half-life way back in the day. That game is undoubtedly a classic- so does Half-life 2 
 live up to its predecessor?
  
  Once again, you take up the role of Gordon Freeman, but your no longer in Black Mesa. Now you are 
 touring the down-trodden streets of City 17, one of earth's last remaining urban centers. Whoa 
 whoa- what happened? how long did the G-man keep me away? Sure- I started an alien invasion in 
 my last game- but I don't see those guys dominating here! Instead- another alien force- the Combine 
 have overrun earth- and enslaved humanity. It's your job to show them who's boss.
  
  Half-life 2 certainly doesn't mess with a winning formula, and that's perfectly fine. The shooting 
 action is still intense, just like it was in the original. In the game, you ark tasked with going 
 through these linear levels, fighting to survive the attacks of your enemies. You'll encounter 
 both new enemies, such as the combine soldier, the vicious antlion, and the imposing strider, along 
 with classic enemies from the original, such as the headcrab and barnacle. So anyone who played 
 the original, or many other single player fps games, should feel right at home here.
  
  This unfortunately brings us to Half-life 2's first, and probably most serious fault. The most 
 common enemies in the game, i. e. the cops and soldiers, don't put up a very good fight due to a 
 horrendous AI. If anything- they'll generally just stand still, or run right into your line of 
 fire. Allied AI is potentially even worse, always getting in your way indoors. At least you don't 
 have to babysit the characters who have to survive, as while they suffer from the same horrible 
 AI, they are almost never killed unless you let that happen. This is extremely disappointing, especially 
 since the AI for the human enemies of the original Half-life were extremely smart and dangerous 
 foes. Ultimately, the game has a surprising lack of truly dangerous foes, at least until late in 
 the game. As a result, the game tends to be quite easy. This can be mostly resolved by setting 
 the difficulty higher however, as the game's hardest difficulty still provides an ample challenge 
 overall. This is good for people who found the original half-life to be too hard, but if your expecting 
 a challenging experience like the one of the original Half-life, you won't find it here.
  
  Graphically, the game is absolutely gorgeous. The ammount of immersion and personality the source 
 engine gives this game alone makes up for many of the game's gameplay issues. Many people might 
 just want to play through the game thanks to the atmosphere! The game's sound is even better, with 
 some great sounds and outstanding voice acting for the game's characters. If there is a complaint 
 to be had with the sound- it's very minor: the smg sounds weak. But compared to everything else, 
 I can't let this one factor alone reduce my score on this game's sound.
  
  In the end, Half-life 2 is a worthy successor to its predecessor. The game is brought down by horrendous 
 AI, but if your willing to look past that, and even if your not willing to look past it- Half-life 
 2 is a game you might want to play for the immersion factor alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is defenetly the best game ever to be made!!!!!!!!
  
  Half life 2 is a science fiction first-person shooter computer game that is the sequel to Half-Life.
 
  
  It was developed by the Valve Software Corporation and was released on November 16, 2004.
  
 
  The game uses the Source game engine, which includes a heavily modified version of the Havok physics 
 engine.
  
  Half-Life 2 has been critically acclaimed for advances in computer animation, sound, narration, 
 computer graphics, artificial intelligence.
  The game garnered near unanimous positive reviews and received critical acclaim, winning over 35 
 Game of the Year awards for 2004.
  
  The original Half-Life, released on November 19, 1998, largely took place at a laboratory called 
 the Black Mesa Research Facility. During an experiment, researchers at Black Mesa accidentally 
 caused a resonance cascade which ripped open a portal to an alien world; Xen. Creatures from Xen 
 flooded into Black Mesa via the portal and started to kill anyone in sight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatefan2764
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good I think I might pass out. Incredible graphics, gameplay, and everything you 
 want in a game. My brother that lives twenty miles away from me comes over to my house just to 
 play this game. Five to ten years from now people with bad games can look at half life 2 and say, 
 I could have bought that. Everyone should know about this game and buy it, buy it, buy it. If for 
 some reason you dont like the game you can always get Garry's Mod, or GMOD if you prefer, to play 
 with homemade cars and rockets and then blast them into a million pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davekirchner
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 picks up almost seamlessly where the first game left off, putting you right back into 
 the HEV suit with crowbar in hand. If you like jumping right into the action and fighting for your 
 survival, you won't be disappointed with HL2. The physics of the game's engine are really something 
 to play around with, and the graphics are impressive as well. Just be ready to shell out for some 
 nice hardware if you want to experience the game as it was meant to be. A system that just meets 
 the minimums will leave you waiting for areas to load a bit too long and somewhat takes away from 
 the feeling of being in the game. Other than that, it's a brilliant adaptation of the Half-Life 
 formula that we all know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skateboardking
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is a well designed game with great pacing and level design. The mixture of puzzles 
 and shooting works well for this title. Visuals are very impressive and the AI is decent, although 
 most characters simply follow predefined paths.
  Criticisms on this game would include the fact that everything you do in the game is entirely trivial. 
 You work for hours to get from point a to point b and kill lots of stuff just to find that the 
 other main characters have reached the destination before you. This continues a trend from the 
 first game, where your actions are all really meaningless - for example working to launch the satellite. 
 Also, there are many points in the game where you are not really informed on what you are trying 
 to do at all, and you just end up running in the direction the bad guys keep coming from. Additionally, 
 many people complain about the easy difficulty and the odd placement of health packs. I agree that 
 the health packs often show up too early or too late, but I found the normal difficulty level to 
 be appropriate, although not excessively challenging.
  Despite this, the game is very enjoyable and has many memorable moments. A thoroughly amazing game 
 altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeKen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for many days straight. It is highly addicting and extremely packed with detail 
 and gameplay. The story line (as always) is extremely well thought out and brought out in a unique 
 way, in this epic sequel. Once again, you are playing through the eyes of Gordon Freeman. Don't 
 ask me how a scientist kicks so much azz, but, he has done it again. The only disappointing aspect 
 of this game, are the bosses. Half - Life 1 contained some of the most interesting and involving 
 bosses to date .... however, HL2 just doesn't cut it. The ending boss is one of the most disappointing 
 boss battles I have ever experienced. Forgetting the bosses, this game is a truly excellent FPS 
 for my collection, and I have played through it many times. It is truly worth the little it costs 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidspunk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  This is a great game! It has amazing graphics and a highly addictive storyline that will make you 
 keep playing until you get sick of it (which won't happen very quickly) . A very imaginative story 
 that has some of the best weapons in the history of gaming, at least in my opinion but the monsters 
 look so realistic that it could scare the crap out of you if you play certain levels in the dark. 
 The game is a little bit on the easy side though and I would recommend playing it on hard mode 
 if you like giving yourself a challenge. Story keeps you hanging when you beat it so you might 
 be a little pissed off when the game is over but there are still more episodes out there that are 
 the sequel to half life 2 so I recommend buying those to. The game comes down to amazing graphics, 
 great story, and great price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepto13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay of Half Life 2 is amazing. The weapons are all great and the vehicles are great to 
 drive. This game has so many mods that can change the gameplay and make it funner. The Graphics 
 are fantastic. The water in the game is the best i have ever seen and the character designs are 
 very high polygon models and look fantastic. The sound is great for a FPS. The value is a perfect 
 10 on my list and has a great replay value. This game is a must buy for any FPS lover who is interested 
 in a great series and story . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 arrives on the pc. You are probely think since this is a Half-Life game is going to 
 be good. You think right and its the best pc game of the year. Half-Life 2 puts you as Gordon Freeman 
 a scientist who fought in Black Mesa in Half-life. Well this game takes you on a train to City 
 17. City 17 is a city that is completly in control by the combine. The combine is a military force 
 that post to take care of the human race. The general is gordons administrator from black mesa. 
 Well the people in City 17 disagree. When the people in city 17 found gordon the helped him to 
 finf alex. Alex is gordons sexxy psykik. They take gordon to Black Mesa East and somthing goes 
 wrong. Then gordon has to find his way to black mesa east and when gordon arrives the combine invades 
 black mesa and im not going to spoil the part for you. In Half-life 2 the game engine is the most 
 amazing engine in any game. There is alot of content in this game but the bad thing about it there 
 is no Half-Life 2 multiplayer. Insted the realesed a new Counter Strike Source. Counter Strike 
 is a popular mod in Half-Life 1. Counter Strike uses the same engine in Half-Life 2. If you are 
 looking for a First Person Shooter that keeps you coming back Half-Life 2 is a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afjhk_58
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a prime example of gaming mastery, brought on by the masters of the ever so humble 
 First Person Shooter... Valve. They improve on the first masterpiece in every possible, and every 
 way that wasnt. Graphic's, sound, and gameplay. Early on in the game, they bring back the best 
 and the brightest characters such as Dr. Kleiner and the ever so immortal Barney, the security 
 guard, as well as some new ones, who are more than welcome to come kick some ass with good ol' 
 Dr. Freeman, the humble phycisist who just so happens to know how to shoot a gun. Take into account 
 that there are no cinematics, this immerses you deeper than you may want to go into this world, 
 that reflects ours quite a lot. The little details in the game are what gives City 17 it's own 
 place in the cast of characters, it has its own political system, economy (It doesnt really show 
 although) and even a corrupt (Possibly alien) police force. The mysteries of the last game are 
 still unsolved, even the ending doesnt explain much. But with the added addition of Episode 1 and 
 Episode 2 (Coming Soon) things will be answered. Assume all you want on the negative, the positive 
 completely destroy the negatives like a suicide bomber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masadwin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  few of the best things in half-life 2 are the graphics, presentation, storyline (really i like 
 the story) , and first person perspective throughout the game and no levels. i like the way half-life 
 2 manages to keep the entire game in the first person view without any cutscenes and there are 
 no objective based levels. In most games you feel like you are playing a game but in Half-Life 
 2 you feel that You are gordon freeman. Voice acting is awesome. Man don't ask me about the graphics, 
 they are the best i've ever seen. The addition of physics is awesome.. High replay value (in my 
 opinion) because the chapters are so interesting and they never break the rhythm by sending you 
 into another location and teliing you to destroy the tank or rescue the president. If u ask me 
 to describe half-life 2 in a few words i'd say half-life 2 is a game which is the KING of FPS shooters. 
 Great work VALVe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo_kicks_ass
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best FPS game that i've ever laid my hands on, other than CoD series. It features revolutionary 
 physic component to make the game much more realistic, with the AI's facial feature, which makes 
 them more human like, (or non-human like) , more than any other game that has come out in last decade. 
 The game continues on from Half Life original (if it's not, my apologies, I haven't played HL yet) 
 and pits player, as Gordon Freeman, against these alien invaders who have taken over Earth to drain 
 its natural resources. The best feature of the game itself, is gravity gun, It is the best gun 
 out there, and once you get used to it, you'll never use crowbar, again. (Unless you're crowbar 
 fan) . As the review says, the AI is a bit on lackey side. For example, CPs just jump right in front 
 of you when you are going at a high speed in your air boat, however, the story and visual effects 
 of the game totally compensates for these weaknesses. Only snag in this game is that you have to 
 activate Steam, so you'd have to have internet connection I'm assuming, but multiplayer will keep 
 you occupied for a long time until HL2: Ep1, 2, and 3 comes out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Being I love first person shooter games... I found it very interesting that I had not played this 
 game sooner. I must admit that I was not all impressed with the very first Half Life from years 
 gone by... but this saga that continues in this episode really took me by surprise.
  
  First of all... the graphics. Oh My Gosh! Can you say simply the best out there! Hands down the 
 developers spared nothing when they made this game. From dirt and water to sky textures and everything 
 in between... it is just the bestest eye candy money can buy!!! The environment looks as if you 
 could just step right out into it thru your monitor and join Alyx &amp; Gordon on their quest. 
 Shoot a wall or an object and the impression from the bullet is put in the object just like real 
 life. Come back several minutes later and it is still there. Not like other games that wipe out 
 all traces of what you just did. They keep it real in this game. The water.... is so real you just 
 want to jump in and go for a swim. Reflections from light, fire and sky all have the most realistic 
 effects on the surface. When you go inside building that are old and decrepid... they have that 
 feel to them because the developer took the time to design each and every aspect of the game. The 
 vegitation blows in the wind, and not just the same direction each time... but inconsistant as 
 if in real life. Vehicles have the worn down appearance, muddy, greasy, and used... not that just 
 off the showroom floor look you get in other games.
  
  Sound... in this game it is just music to your ears. Bullets richochet off of things and you can 
 hear the ping of the metal on metal. If it happens in the distance and you have sound surround... 
 you are in for a real treat as it will immerse you right into the environment. You can hear the 
 soldiers comming up behind you and or chatting in the distance just like in real life. Water dripping, 
 metal on metal, engines grinding, hellicopters whirring, fire crackling and a great many more realistic 
 sounds await you in this game.
  
  Storyline is totally immersive! I need to play the original now to get the beginning of the saga 
 so I know what and why... but I do know that the game keeps you wanting to know more about your 
 character and his quest. The end of the game leaves you with a tasty tidbit of a loose thread that 
 lets you know that it will continue... and it does in Half Life 2 : Episode !.
  
  Gameplay is the greatest thing going here, and that is to just top the cake as everything else 
 is TOP NOTCH! I love the physics of the game. Just like the real world... everything actsl the 
 same in this game. In the game you get a weapon called a Gravity Gun which allows you to pick up 
 objects and throw them (or would the term jettison them) be more appropriate here. You can for 
 instance pick up a wooden pallet with the gravity gun and then launch it at an enemy to either 
 mame or kill them. It all depends on the object you have and how it would react in the real world. 
 If you do launch a pallet at an enemy or a wall... when it hits them it will explode into alot 
 of pieces just like in real life. Then you can pick up those individual pieces as weapons as well. 
 Some barrels in the game are explosive. Using the Gravity Gun for them can be both helpfull as 
 well as damaging. If you pick it up and don't launch it in time... your enemy can shoot it and 
 explode you into nothing in seconds. The world and the objects (which there are plenty to choose 
 from) are your arsenal with this gun.
  
  Equally as well you have other weapons to choose from as you go thru your quest. Weaponry is strictly 
 give to you as you kill other enemies. You start with a pistol and then must accumulate your other 
 weapons as you find them on soldiers you kill or laying around. Drop and swap is the name of the 
 game for weapons here. Find a better weapon... drop the one you have and pick up the better one. 
 Use all of the ammo in that weapon... and need a new one... remember where you dropped the last 
 one and go back and pick it up if you like. This makes for a very creative game play for each individual 
 person.
  
  In conclusion... this game has so much to offer a gamer. Immersive environment, awesome graphics 
 and sound, non linear at it's finest, along with tactical gameplay ensure you hours of fun just 
 in the single player mode. There is also an online mode to play deathmatch against others which 
 I have personally not done... but I have heard that it is probably one of the finest multiplayer 
 environments out there for games. This game does not loose it's value in gameplay easily as each 
 adventure, while the end result of each level is the same... can be reached differently depending 
 on your style of gameplay. Three little words for you that have not played Half Life 2 as of yet... 
 GET THIS GAME!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Halflife 2 is a science fiction first person shooter, it is the sequal to half life which came 
 6 years prior to this version.
  
  Years after the Black Mesa Incident, the mysterious G-Man summons Gordon Freeman from his induced 
 slumber. Placing him on a train, he finds himself in City 17 , one of an unknown number of 'urban 
 centers' where humans are kept in pseudo-slavery by a mysterious alien race known as the Benefactors. 
 The city is overseen by Dr. Breen, a former administrator of Black Mesa who, after arranging the 
 surrender of Earth to the Benefactors, was rewarded with a leadership position. Humans are now 
 half-way oppressed by themselves. Prisons, concentration camps and urban centers alike are controlled 
 by the Combine, members of a somewhat voluntary system in which participation is rewarded with 
 better living conditions. Among all of this, a rebellion stirs in the shadows, hoping to one day 
 ignite a revolution to free humanity from its distant constraints . . . And the timely arrival 
 of Gordon, the One Free Man , may prove to be the one chance the rebels have to gain the upper 
 hand
  
  The game plays the same as many other fps games on the pc, i like that that it isn't as straightforward 
 as many FPS games, there are many little puzzles to distract you from your main goal. The guns 
 are pretty similar to all fps games, yalthough there is the gravity gun which in my opinion is 
 the best gun in the game. You can pull objects towards you and throw them at a very hisgh velocity. 
 It is especially useful when there are circular saw blades and you are chopping the aliens heads 
 off. Oh and as always Gordon Freeman has his trusty Crowbar to hand.
  
  This game looks stunning even on lower end systems, although on older pc's you may see increaseed 
 loading time. The physics is what Halflife 2 is all about, they are uber realistic and beautiful 
 to watch. The game also sounds amazing, music kicks in at the right time to enhance the action 
 and get your adrenaline pumping. All the guns sound powerful and realistic and so do the crys and 
 orders of your eniemies. As a whole the sound and graphics really pull you into the game (especially 
 using a heasety like i do) .
  
  The good points of teh game are simple, great gameplay which is very addictive and not too short 
 like many other FPS games that have been released recently. Just on a whole a great game. I have 
 played through the game a few time now and have just gone back for some more of The Gordon Freeman 
 Goodness. I cant wait for the orange box so i can play this on my xbox 360 also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amcomwrks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Undoubtedly the best FPS I have ever played in all aspects. Short learning curve unpredictable 
 AI, great puzzles to solve. The Graphics are A one. Story line is really good. The cut scenes are 
 awesome. If you are my age the Pro Gamer command unit is a must. This game stays exiting and challenging 
 from start to finish. You will want to play it over and over as well as the sequels. IMO this game 
 should be the model for all FPS games of this genre. Only draw back is the download time from steam, 
 if you are on dial up forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamingeagle
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Playing this game. It was Rather Enjoyable the puzzles were fun but not as complex as 
 original Half-life pack. I Got my Supervisor Playing it after not playing games for a long while. 
 That was a Plus, but he ended up getting throuhg it before i did. Nice Graphics and i did enjoy 
 that the actual use of different guns could be of use throughout the game. The game did give me 
 a fright in Ravenholm but of course i played it on the demo and had all the lights off and was 
 already in a chilled mood. When you don't know what or where some of the monsters are you could 
 get spooked. Couple of surprises. some of the twist i expected though. Anyways good game to have 
 hopefully the expansions are not so anti-climatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3manriot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? This is a question I never thought I would have to ask myself when writing a review 
 of Half-Life 2. This is not because there is little to write about this game, far from it. This 
 is because this game does so many things right in so many ways that it might be possible to write 
 a thesis on the topic of Half-Life 2 compared to other single player shooters. As an avid gamer, 
 Half-Life 2 is, simply put, the best single-player shooter ever released for the PC. What has been 
 created here is simply a master piece, what could only be described as a work of art, a master 
 piece in this genre of gaming. Not only does it entice the mind with intelligent dialogue and mystifying 
 happenings, it also catapults the senses into overdrive with its superb visual style. Once the 
 shock and awe of the sudden sensual rush has worn off, it becomes possible to notice that a superb, 
 first person shooter has been created. What Half-Life 2 has done here, much the same as its predecessor 
 did, has raised the bar and set a new height for all other FPS to aim for. To be able to play this 
 game at a level where the graphics are to be able to justice to the game play, you will need to 
 have a reasonable spec pc. But even with this, the game play will still run flawlessly, even in 
 the most extreme environments within the game. This game is designed with gamers in mind and Valve 
 has understood that not all of us out there can have the top gaming rigs available. With this in 
 mind, Valve has made sure the game play is the same on all pcs and this is all down to the new 
 Source engine. The Source engine is an impressive piece of software. The thing that is particularly 
 impressive is how the Source engine runs so flawlessly, without compromising any part of the game 
 play or the graphics. The game runs so smoothly without loosing the complex, highly detailed and 
 colourful environments. The A. I of the characters which you will come across whilst you become 
 Dr Freeman are impressive to say the most. The enemys you will encounter will work in teams, try 
 to outflank you, react to sound and movement whilst they engage you with what can only be described 
 as the most lifelike A. I to date. Half-Life 2 is what can only be described as a must buy game. 
 If you are already a fan, then that is an obvious statement. Even if you have not come across the 
 half-life series before then the chances are you will at some point. My advice is try it now, so 
 there no kicking you self when you realised what you have missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Gordon Freeman the quiet PH. D physicist gets himself in another hole with the G-man. Then when 
 he wakes up from is whatever he is in a police state. Thanks a lot. But the G-Man never puts Gordon 
 Freeman in a situation he can't get out of which is good, or he would be like the countless of 
 other security guards, and scientists at Black Mesa.
  
  The story doesn't answer many questions and isn't all that clear, because Gordon Freeman is in 
 something bigger, than everything centered at Gordon.
  
  The level design ane mission variety is neat with the boat, the dune buggy, facing the antlions, 
 prison, the city, and the last level where you travel up all 2000+ whatever feet of the Combine 
 Center in City 17. The Ravenholm was great giving a zombie Resident Evil feel for a little bit.
 
  
  The interactivity is neat with the puzzles of placing concrete blocks to move a see saw to get 
 to an area, and all the stuff you can do with a gravity gun. On the prison mission playing hard. 
 When surrounded by guards from all areas and they only give you three sentry guns, why not get 
 the two you used earlier and gravity shoot them to that part of the map so you had 5 sentry guns 
 patrolling 4 enter areas, which made it easier when being outnumbered 30 + to 1.
  
  Overall Half-Life 2 has good elements in gameplay. It's not super amazing but way better than Halo 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man5000
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Well I just finished playing it and I must say: what an ending!!!! Just amazing how they did THAT! 
 From the moment I started playing, I was sucked into it's stunning graphics and it's amazing gameplay! 
 Now I'm only 16 but I already played a lot of games, and I started out with the basic RTS games 
 (AOE and others) but as I grew older I started to develop an interest for more action-paced games 
 and here I am playing HL2, finishing it in 5 days (well it's vacation I played like 6+hours a day 
 so...) What I also like about the HL games is the mystery around them, the mysterious G-man, ... 
 I like it because this wa I can't wait for the next instalment! (for me it will be Episode 1 in 
 3 days from now so..) So this is what I think of HL2 in short:
  
  *SUPERB Gameplay
  *AMAZING Graphics
  *GREAT Sound
  
  Will play it again and again until the franchise is done 
 (hopefully it never ends!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ondskan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Try to compare most First Person shooters with the original Half-life and you'd be nearly finished 
 before you even start. Most FPS games simply can't hold a candle to a game who's innovations included 
 in-game scripted scenes, one of the best cinematic yet interactive openings in a game ever, great 
 AI (for it's time) and some original weaponry to say the least. So why bother right? Well it goes 
 without saying that you are obliged to compare it's sequel: Half-life 2 against the original. So 
 how does it stack up? Well lets start with the obvious. Graphics. Dear lord the graphics... photo 
 realistic textures that make you drool, light bloom... it actually hurts when you look directly 
 at the sun
  or into the flashbulbs of the roaming sentries floating around taking the occasional picture. This 
 is a phenomenal leap that really has more to do with the advancement of video processing technology 
 than the game itself, but hat's off to Sierra for taking advantage of every last GPU cycle.
  
  Sound: Quite simply: Perfect. The gun actually sounds like it's in your hands. Not 40 feet 
 in front of you or like someone else is firing at you from behind.
  And in some cases there's a real solid boom, like with the shotgun or the machine gun and even 
 the advanced machine gun which sounds like anti aircraft fire.... beautiful.
  Considering the custom sound effects as well almost all other games should take their queue from 
 HL2 - fantastic sound. Game play: I for one enjoyed every aspect of game play, from the frenetic 
 opening to the air boat to the buggy, hauling ass across Nova Prospect.
  I've seen some say they were bored with this, perhaps it took them too long to figure out where 
 to go or how to operate the mode of transportation?
  I don't know, but these sequences were over in just the right amount of time from my perspective, 
 and with the constant attack from the combine, I understand why some felt it couldn't end soon 
 enough. I rather enjoyed the landscape as well, the developers took time and care to make the abandoned 
 houses, vehicles
  and stations you find along the way seem like quite a bit of time has passed, that there was some 
 history here, and who knows how the poor inhabitants of these areas lost their lives or were perhaps 
 captured and taken by the combine. This is a part of the game I feel is lost on most people or 
 they give a fleeting moment of thought to it and then return to getting to the end to discover 
 the full story as quickly as possible.
  
  Ah yes, the story. Far and away the biggest complaint I've heard about the game. There's NO story! 
 so the lament goes for most of the players of this game. I disagree, somewhat.
  There is a story, it's developing before your eyes. This is part of a complete narrative that we 
 have not finished yet. It's like the countless people that complain about movies like The Two Towers, 
 The Empire Strikes Back, Pirates of the Carribean: Dead man's chest, and on and on. In all of these 
 cases you are in the MIDDLE of a story! Of course there's no blasted resolution, it's not over! 
 Now I'm not pretending that this answer is enough to keep people satisfied, of course you have 
 to answer some questions to keep the player interested, compelling them to move on to find out 
 more. If you don't provide some interesting
  exposition the fans end up ... well.... LOST (hehe) . So ok some more exposition (Though there is 
 some in hidden in spots) would have helped somewhat.
  
  Innovation: Ok not so much here at first glance. There are some notable areas however which not 
 only can't be ignored but would qualify for all time greats. What am I talking about?
  Well for one the Therapod and antlion weapon . This was not only a highly effective weapon but 
 entertaining to a fault. The only downside is that the option is temporary.
  Why would you ever let go of that therapod? Maybe it disintegrates over time... ok whatever. Not 
 to be left out by any stretch in this Innovation section, is perhaps one of the all time greatest 
 weapons developed for a FPS game, the zero point energy ... uh manipulator?
  Oh hell, the Gravity Gun! While the power of this weapon is a might over-the-top at the end of 
 the game, I felt it was a fine reward for all that 'boring' buggy and airboat stuff (right?) See 
 how I'm trying to throw a bone to every school of thought here? Besides rewarding, it sure showed 
 off the physics engine like nobody's business.
  
  In the misc section I'd say that Dog was pretty fun to watch and the facial expressions are simply 
 remarkable.
  Really there's a lot to say about the environment and all the little details put into this game 
 to make it enjoyable. Simply eyeballing the graphics if you have a nice enough video card can serve 
 as quite a distraction. So does HL2 stack up to it's predesessor? Well, while all the innovation 
 of the original might not be present, there's enough here to keep you playing for hours,
  the action is still top notch and the graphics and sound help with the immersion - The rest of 
 the story? To be continued.... (just waits until the story is over before you completely assassinate 
 it, please?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang_rider
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  A classic since the first Half Life, Opossing Force and Blue Shift.
  
  This is maybe one of the best shooter ever made on history the sequel is a master piece.
  
 
  this new game have relations of history with the first one but atmosphere, engine, and so many 
 other things change. bringing you (gordon Freeman)
  to a city call 17 have to face a entire army of soldier from Civil Protection to know how is this 
 new story. the decent Source Engine not preaty Cool But a powerful Engine let you have precense 
 of great Explosions, illuminatins, Shadows, and many ather things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rewey
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is obviously the sequel to Half-Life which won numerous awards. HL2 has a good story 
 and great gameplay but, the insanely realistic physics are what makes a major difference from other 
 games out there. HL2's levels are nicely made and they fully take use of the Source Engine. HL2 
 is a very pretty game thanks to the Source Engine. HL2 is personally my favorite game, not only 
 because of the game itself, HL2 has many great mods to keep you busy way past 200 hours. The game 
 is a great game to add to your collection and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Alrighty then.. yeah... errmmm... wow.. gosh... ok ok anywayyy.... im just lost for words! This 
 game is so good that it has blown my tiny mind! It's just.. well... how do you say it.... abominably, 
 ecstatically, awesomely, formidably, superbly, mind-bogglingly ****ING AMAZING!!!! Please excuse 
 my lack of formality in this review but i cannot express enough how good this game is. It provides 
 absolutely everything you could possibly dream of in a shooter, it has all types of zombies, a 
 fully interactive environment, stunning graphics, big guns, emotionally attachable allies (if you 
 know what i mean) and, and... well... suffice to say it is one of man's greatest creations - no 
 words can do this game justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldelite60
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game totally RULES. The gameplay is totally awesome, you'll once again assume the role of 
 Gordon Freeman and deliver some crowbar swipes to anyone who gets in your way. The controls are 
 just like that of any other FPS and it shouldn't take many people to get the hang of it. The new 
 weapon additions are great, you can do just about anything with the gravity gun. And the addition 
 of vehicles makes parts of the game incredibly fun, and when you're done wit the game you can do 
 what I did, which was to cheat to spawn buggies and airboats wherever you want them. The zombie 
 gameplay is also totally awesome and it gives an eeries feeling with terrifying screeches. The 
 first time I heard it I totally freaked out and started shooting like crazy even after he was dead. 
 Not to mention that there are new zombie crabs and additional types of the ones with the crabs 
 on their heads. I won't spoil them for you though. At anyrate the game is a really engaging shooter 
 with some enemies that might creep you out the first time you see them (like what happened to me) . 
 Not to mention that you can also use Garry's Mod to create whatever you want. I personally don't 
 have it but I've seen enough vids from people who have to know that it is completly awesome. An 
 example for all you guys to check out, if you haven't already done so, would be the Robot Salesman 
 videos posted here on gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is a big improvment from the first Half-Life. First, graphics. This game requires a mid 
 to top end computer to play without too much lag. Looking down is one way to aviod lag when not 
 in a fire fight. But this rarely happens, if is is not combine, then zombies or antlions or a stalker. 
 One bad thing is the large ammount of bug, glitches, ect that allow for unfair game play. people 
 finishing in about one hour when it should take days. One GREAT thing is the LUA scripting which 
 allows people to make their own mods for different maps, modes, and single player maps. GMod is 
 another awsome addition to this game. GMod is a sandbox mod where you spawn NPCs, items, make stuff 
 like catipults and takns that shoot. Gmod is great. This game is Great over all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is very great game but i I want to make this review short and sweet, but it's hard to 
 stop writing, even when excluding facts that could potentially contaminate an exceptionally well 
 thought-out gaming, experience. There's just so much to say. Half-Life 2 is, simply put, the best 
 single-player shooter ever released for the PC. It does so many things right in so many ways that 
 it might be possible to write a thesis on the topic of Half-Life 2 compared to other single player 
 shooters. The game is kind of a action type, horror. Which adds the fun to it.
  However you need a good pc to handle it tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vladx12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Note to all other Game companies: Make sure to play half life 2
  This is the way a game should be made!!!
  Perfect graphics, Amazing voice overs, Gameplay always 
 changing and extreamly fun, riding cars isent frustrating but suprisingly easy to control,0 bugs!! 
 Awesome AI and Unbeliveable level designs, And one of THE best Storylines ever seen in a movie or 
 a video game
  
  I Cant even find a word to describe how perfect is half life 2
  but I will say this: If you are going to buy this game
  i can assure you 100% that every dime 
 you spend on this game... is Totaly gonna worth it!
  
  Now i command you, in the name of gordon freeman Who never speaks : ( GO AND BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  A new Half LIfe!!!! YES :D Half Life... good times, good times :P
  Half Life 2 is the one of the best Shooter ever.
  The story: The story begins where Half Life 
 1 ends. When you finish Half Life 1 then you have a lot of questions. Some of those questions are 
 answered at the expansions but not all of thme. I expected that all these questions will be answered 
 in Half Life 2. Well no. If you finished Half Life 2 you still dont know much more. So thats pretty 
 s**tty but the most are answered in Episode 1 and in 2 (i think) .
  The gameplay: Its perfect just like all other things. It's pretty creepy with aliens and some horror-effects. 
 The total new psychics engine is a great gameplay-element. You can pick up things with the new 
 weapon: 'The Gravity Gun'. It can shoot things away with a kinda thunder beam and you can pick 
 things up so you can take boxes on another place to climb on something or jump on something to 
 find ammo and armor or a button to make doors open. Also there are some puzzles to do with the 
 'Gravity Gun'. It's not really complicated but its fun. Of course there is a lot of shooting. From 
 melee (crowbar) to Bazooka's. Half Life 1 had more weapons thats not a big problem. There are new 
 enemys like the Strider and Combines. Striders are pretty hard to kill and Combines are infantry 
 soldiers and there are different types like elite and normal and police and stuff. To much to say 
 ;P PERFECT :D
  The graphics are perfect too :P They made a whole new engine named: The Source engine. It looks 
 really nice and gives an overwhelming feel with nice explosions and stuff. Everything is updated 
 a lot since Half Life 1. Much polygones per item, NPC's and weapons. The water is great and the 
 grass is just like it has to be... GREEN :P OK that was a joke but the grass is nice. The graphics 
 are perfect too :P
  Well now on the sound. The sound is good gunshots, splashing sounds when you give him a smack :P 
 Also the music is nice but you won't here the music for a long time. When you walk through an zombie 
 level you'll hear creepy sounds and sometimes screams or wolves and stuff. The voice-actors are 
 pretty good and G-Man has the best voice but a weird tho. Gordon still dont talk. Maybe he never 
 learned it :P ... We'll probably never know it.
  You'll get around 30 hours gameplay at the Easy-Singleplayer. At medium around 35 and at hard around 
 40-45. And this is only the Singleplayer. Counter Strike Source is free with Half Life 2. This 
 has great teamwork multiplayer gameplay. Ill write a review about that later. Maybe. If you buy 
 the Game of the Year Edition you'll get another singleplayer campaing with it: The Lost Coast. This 
 is pretty nice and its around 2 hours gameplay. You'll get Half Life 2: Deathmatch too. So this 
 all is around 300 hours gameplay. But the most peaople dont play that long. I did cus its just 
 perfect.
  
  A must have if you have a good PC with internet. One of the best shooters ever! Aww man i cant 
 wait for Half Life 2 Episode 2! (SRRY FOR BAD ENGLISH) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beppe125
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  I probably don't have to write what everybody have already written, but this is one of the best 
 games ever done!
  The graphic, the sound, the characters, the environments! Everything is just perfect! I was a H-L 
 fan before i even heard of H-L2 and Valve has done a great job keeping the original H-L's special 
 feeling when you play it and has added even more to it! Altough i was one of those who hated Valve 
 when i bought it, the same day that it came out (In Sweden) , and found out that you needed a internet-connection 
 to install it and then Steam crashed, but that can be overlooked because H-L2 is a classic that 
 can't be missed! If you havent already, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Like a lot of people, I tend to wright a review only when I have a problem with a game or when 
 I flat out don't like it.
  Just so that I don't feel like I'm overly negative, I want to quickly make a positive review. :)
 
  Half Life 2 is amazing!
  Everything in this game is a first rate effort.
  The graphics are beautiful.
  The environments are immersive, believably realistic but still stylish.
 
  The AI will knock your socks off.
  And last but by no means least ... the STORY is GREAT!
  
  The only problems I had with this game was when it first came out and it had some nasty bugs. 
 The other problem I had with it at the time, was the total lack of a multi player mode. But that 
 was before the brats out there with there cheats finally ruined the hole online experience for 
 me. I just don't play online anymore.
  
  Over all ... this is a work of art!
  
  Get it, you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ross_wrx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Gordon Freeman is back! Powered by Valves outstanding Source physics engine this game totally 
 outclasses the competition.
  
  Having escaped from the incident at the Black Mesa complex in the first instalment Gordon must 
 now battle his way through City 17 sometime in the near future against an array of new and old 
 enemies and lots of puzzles. Along with an assortment of new weapons and vehicles to choose from!
 
  
  For experienced Half-Life players the games controls will come naturally, although new players 
 will pick them up very quickly as they are now quite generic across the First Person Shooter genre.
 
  
  What better place than to start the game play on a train, just like the first instalment! The adventure 
 begins with Gordon having to escape the clutches of the Combine who control everyone and everything 
 in City 17. This is a great opportunity to check out the unbelievable Source physics engine, which 
 is a heavily modified version of the Havok engine. Pushing a swing in a playground and watching 
 how it acts so realistically or smashing a crate with the standard issue crowbar and watching how 
 pieces of wood fly around reacting with other items in the environment.
  
  As the game progresses Gordon acquires a wide arsenal of weapons, which includes some carried over 
 from Half-Life including the trademark crowbar, the conventional firearms of the SPAS-12 shotgun, 
 .357 Magnum revolver, crossbow, and rocket propelled grenade. But also several new weapons that 
 include possibly the best in game weapon ever! The Zero-Point Energy Field Manipulator or gravity 
 gun . Hours of fun can be had just messing around with it. It allows the player to pick up objects 
 in the surrounding environment and hurl them around or more boringly just carry them. It is essential 
 for many of the puzzles found later in the game but most enjoyment comes from using it simply as 
 a weapon as it allows you to use pretty much anything around as a high velocity projectile! From 
 steel oil drums to a circular saw blade!
  
  Although Gordon battles through much of Half-Life2 alone, he is at times assisted by friendly allies. 
 Especially by a young lady called Alyx and everybodys favourite security guard Barney Calhoun, 
 who meet up with you on many occasions throughout the game. The artificial intelligence for these 
 characters is excellent, providing such things as covering fire when it is most needed.
  
  For the first time in the series vehicles are featured which Gordon can use to achieve his objectives, 
 from a crazy hovercraft to a dune buggy with a front mounted Gauss Gun!
  Overall this game is an absolute masterpiece, thankfully upholding Valves reputation they earned 
 with the first game. The game simply has everything a First Person Shooter should have. Addictive, 
 challenging and beautiful game play.
  
  Half-Life2 sets the bar extremely high and it will most probably be a long wait until someone can 
 match this stunning game. Ross 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyking
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ever! It is fast, and i got a few headaches, but it is AMAZING!!! The graphics, 
 even if few years old, can keep up with up to date games. The sound is so great, it makes you feel 
 ilke you were in the game. The gameplay is awesome, especially with the gravity gun in your hands. 
 The AI is smart, so prepare yourself. This game is worth your money, not a rent, but WORTH IT. 
 I may understand that some people may not like it because of the way it is. Overall, This game 
 is perfecto for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSDempsey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  From the very beginning of this game you will feel like you are actually in City 17. The game presents 
 a deeply cinematic feel. As the entire game is played through the eyes of Gordon Freeman, it has 
 a very continuous and easy-flowing storyline. You will get a taste of several different types of 
 gameplay as you progress through the chapters of this game, each done very well. The physics and 
 graphics are like nothing else, and will make the experience of this game all the greater. This 
 game is absolutely not to be missed, and is easily an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  For All The First Person Shooters On The Market Up To Date, On All Platforms, This Immediatly Takes 
 First Place.
  The Game Is Streatched Out and Difficulty Level Is Average. No Matter What Level Of Difficutly 
 You Play It On, Conserving Amo Is The Greatest Challenge (in a good way) . Physics In The Game Play 
 Are Superb, And All The Puzzles In The Game Are Designed Around That. (remove a brick on one side 
 of a scale and all the weight from the health &amp; ammo lower the other side down to the ground, 
 when you take it, the scale slowly evens its self out) Seems Simple. But It Is Only One Basic Example 
 Of Many Others.
  I Beat This Game Twice Over The Last Year Or Two &amp; I Am Playing It Again On The Most Difficult 
 Level. This Is A Single Player Masterpiece.
  
  The Game Has One Condenment.
  Although STEAM Is A Great Program For Many Resigns. It Would Have Been Nice If The Game (although 
 its single player) Said On The Box That It MUST Have An Internet Connection To Validate The Key 
 Code To Play. @ The Time I Was In The Middle Of Moveing &amp; Only Had Crappy Backup Dialup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beedup91
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Ya rly.
  
  If you have never played this game, you should be ashamed to call yourself a PC gamer. I need one 
 hundred words in order to post this review. I will get one hundred words so I can post this review 
 so all can see this mighty review which should be considered one of the greatest reviews man kind 
 has ever read, just as HL2 is considered one of the greatest games man kind has ever created and 
 played. I swear, I 'm going to make it to one hundred words. It's just a matter of time until this 
 review is unleashed to the public so all can witness a review that will blow their minds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoBoiWondeR
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I stopped keeping time after 2am so I can't be sure what hour it is, nor can I tell you when I 
 ran out of the cannister of Malt Balls and Peanut M&amp; M's I brought as supplementation. What 
 I can tell you however (in the humble opinion of a dedicated PC gamer for 15 years) , is that Half 
 Life 2 is the the most mind blowing game I've ever played.
  
  I was at E3 with my pyscho gaming buddy cleaning the Pizza flavored drool off his chin when we 
 got a preview of HL2. Like most, I counted the days, cursed Valve and Sierra for delay after delay, 
 put all my faith and hope into Doom 3, was underwhelmed, went back to playing Desert Combat... basically 
 went insane with anticipation.
  
  In the brief moments before firing up HL2 for the first time, I was hopeful, but expecting to be 
 dissapointed.
  
  And I was.
  
  Really, no multi-player! I'm one of those that have an absolute allergy to single-player games. 
 Small beads of angry sweat began to form on my back...
  
  But I soldiered on, and in:
  
  10 minutes I was impressed,
  
  at 30 minutes I was completely immersed,
  
  at 1 hour 
 chills were running up and down my spine, and occasional girlish yelps of horror began emanating 
 from my pitch dark office...
  
  ... by the third hour I came to the conclusion that HL2 was/is the most impressive game software 
 I've ever had the privilege of living in. Some highlights:
  
  1. The engine is truly revolutionary. Doom 3 has a darn good engine, HL2 in my opinion is vastly 
 better. Indoor AND outdoor environments are near photo-realistic (I have a 3.2GHZ w/ 1GB RAM) , 
 the physics are jaw-dropping AND deeply integrated into the play of the game, texture and lighting, 
 faces, water, you name it, this engine is now The Standard.
  
  2. Vehicles. Well, not only do they have them, they're really fun to operate (or be chased by as 
 the case may be) .
  
  3. The Gravity Gun. This weapon comes later in the game, and in my humble opinion, is easily the 
 most fun weapon I've ever used. Picking up and throwing items, using it to activate latent elements 
 of the environment (often as weapons) is unbelievably fun. Which brings me to:
  
  4. Humor. This game has some really funny moments. I almost busted a gut when I ran out of heavy/sharp 
 things to fire at zombified creatures that were teaming up on me in close quarters. I desperately 
 pulled over a large can of paint, fired, and splattered huge gobs of white paint all over their 
 (now more upset) faces. I died, but I died laughing. And finally:
  
  5. Immersion. The screams were obvious signs of immersion, but beyond that, I noticed myself making 
 facial expressions of anger, empathy, anticipation... all throughout the game I found myself genuinely 
 caring. That's a first for me.
  
  I really could go on and on, but I can't, literally, I fear that dawn isn't far from my window 
 and I'd like to pretend that I myself won't be a zombie tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone111
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  o wait it did, episode one and soon episode two is coming out. even better than half life 2. if 
 thats possible. half life 2 is one of those games where you will love getting it. id personally 
 pay 100 bucks for it, its that good.
  
  Pros: basically everything but ill break it down for you
  1. Graphics - if you have a good enough 
 graphics card you will find yourself looking at the walls and crates and models, and last and not 
 least alex!
  2. Physics - are amazing... remember in half life when you wanted to pick up crates and throw em 
 at enemies? well now you can!
  3. Gravity Gun - BEST WEAPON EVER. yup it is. You can pick up frikin bodies with it once it gets 
 enhanced... whats better than that?
  4. Half-Life story - get to find out what happened after black mesa.
  5. Steam - I know a lot 
 of people hate it but i think steam is awesome. you dont even need the cds one you have the cd 
 key and steam you can download it straight from steam
  6. Zombies - Whats better than picking up a circular saw with the gravity gun, timing it right 
 and chopping of like 5 zombies heads in one shot?
  
  Cons: for those of us with crappy.... everything... you might wanna upgrade... which if you wanna 
 max out the settings on hl2 than you're gonna be spending a few hundred... but even if you dont 
 you can still run it on pretty low requirements
  
  other than that i only got one beef with hl2.
  1. The Sprinting - it takes the game away from 
 the roots of half life if you ask me, i find myself sometimes not even using it since im so use 
 to there not being a sprint button
  
  o and one other very small thing... when underwater if you use your flash light your oxygen goes 
 down faster? its like what the frik... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dommeus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a masterpiece. To date it is the most immersive gaming experience I have ever had. 
 Nothing stands close to it. I just thought I'd get that out of the way before I go to the review 
 itself. In fact, if you haven't already got it, and you're a FPS fan, go and get it now.
  
  To set the scene I will begin at the beginning. The original Half-Life, another classic game that 
 those who have no picked it up should burn for. Half-Life put you in the shoes of Dr Gordon Freeman, 
 a theoretical physisist working in the Black Mesa complex, a giant underground scientific facility 
 built somewhere beneath the Nevada desert. Not to spoil things for those who have yet to play it, 
 but obviously something goes horribly wrong, and you have to put things right. At the end of the 
 game you are confronted by a suited man (hereby refered to as the G-Man) , who gives you the choice 
 to work for him, or the choice to die! Half-Life 2 (obviously) assumes you chose the former, and 
 begins with Gordon waking from some purgatory-esque statis by the G-Man. His words are vague and 
 cryptic, and he leaves you on a train headed straight for City 17. At this point, you have absolutely 
 NO idea what is going on. What has become of civilization? Who are the mysterious 'Combine' police 
 who oppress the city? Who is the face that fills the huge screen around the city and re-assures 
 the citizens that co-oporation will lead humanity to the next step? Many of these questions are 
 answered, but many are left for later parts of the series. Because the perspective never leaves 
 that of Gordons, you only piece together pieces of the puzzle by hearing, seeing and experiencing 
 the events first hand.
  
  You run into Barney (a security guard from Black Mesa, who works for the Combine in order to spy 
 for the resistance) , and it quickly becomes apparent that you are not welcome in the city. You 
 are chased by the Combine through apartment blocks and into the lovely hands of Alyx Vance, daughter 
 to one of the scientists you worked with at Black Mesa. She in turn leads you to the secret lab 
 of Doctor Kleiner, another scientist you worked with at Black Mesa. It is from here that things 
 again go wrong, and where the game begins its intense and memorable road to its cliff hanger conclusion.
 
  
  On your journeys you will head through canals (in part on a hovercraft) , through a zombie infested 
 ghost town, along a coastal highway (in a buggy) , to a Combine prison and eventually back to City 
 17, in order to scale the Combine Citadel and put a stop to Dr Breen. All of the locales are absolutely 
 stunning and vary wildly. As a game Half Life 2 is a very complete experience. Though the majority 
 of the game is mearly getting from point A to point B intact, the scenarios and locales are handled 
 so well that you never feel like you are playing through a similar part again. Though your main 
 enemy is the Combine, you will also come up against many other enemy types, old and new. Those 
 of you familiar with Half-Life will no doubt welcome barnacles, the iconic headcrabs and their 
 subsequent zombie counterparts. Added to their repetoire are new fast zombies that sport super 
 agile headcrabs, and the slower hulks. These lumbering zombies have poison head crabs literally 
 sucking the life out of them as they stumble around. When they see you they won't hesitate to chuck 
 one right at you, and if bitten by one of them your health is temporarily lowered to 1, so definitely 
 kill these first in a room full of zombies!
  
  Along with the zombies there are many new enemies you will face. The Antlions are a race of arachnid 
 aliens asthetically similar to the bugs from Starship Troopers, and the larger guards are truely 
 a terror to fight. Manhacks are flying mechanical saws that are thrown from a Combines waist. Striders 
 are giant tripod like creatures, part flesh part machine, that can rain fire from turrets, or power 
 up an intense beam of energy that can take down buildings. Hunter helicopters are pretty much just 
 that, but with the added ability of dropping timed mines that explode within about 3 seconds, unless 
 hit first. Finally of note are the Dropships and Gunships. Though their function is pretty obvious 
 from their namesakes, their design is not. What can only be described as part marine life, part 
 mammal, part machine. That flies. And Shoots!!
  
  A wide variety of weapons is provided with which to dispatch the large number of enemies against 
 you. Along with the iconic crowbar and the obvious pistols, machine guns and shotguns you also 
 pick up grenades, crossbows and rocket launchers. The best new addition though, is the Zero Point 
 Energy Manipulator, or Gravity Gun for short. With this weapon you can pick up, put down, push 
 and throw the majority of the objects in the game. Not only does this add a level of depth to the 
 combat (just wait until you pull a radiator off the wall and chuck it at a combine soldier, or 
 better yet, pick up a saw and slice a zombie in half with it!) , but it also means that many puzzles 
 can be set up with Gravity in mind. The physics engine used in the game does a great job of putting 
 all of these elements together cohesively and believeably.
  
  The AI for the most parts is decent. It's no where near as good as HL1's, but still does a decent 
 job. Soldiers flank you and use grenades intelligently, but all too often they stand out in the 
 open and just wait to be mowed down. A pity, but not much of a hinderence on my gameplay experience.
 
  
  The gunplay is intense and only lets up so you can enjoy one of the emotional scenes courtesy of 
 the uncanily believable models and voiceovers. Characters often look scared, concerned, happy or 
 angry. They hug, hold hands, wink at each other, clap and act out many other belivable mannerisms. 
 It really has to be seen to be believed. The character models are all very detailed and polished, 
 and the lip synching is spot on, adding to the immersiveness.
  
  Graphics on the whole are excellent. The source engine truely is a sight to behold. In my opinion 
 it is the only engine that has created textures that in any way resemble real life. Obviously since 
 it's release games like Crysis have emerged, but 3 years ago (or there about) this was the epitome 
 of graphics. The fact it still stands up to this day is testament to that. Take a look at the water 
 when 'Reflect All' is checked in the graphics options, and it's hard not to just stop and stare...
 
  
  Since the release of Episode One, HDR and bloom effects have been added, which only help to improve 
 an already outstanding engine. But even without these, the game looks AAA.
  
  The soundwork in the game is pretty ****ing amazing as well! My only quibble with the effects is 
 that a few of the guns sound incredibly tame (especially the pistol, which sounds like some one 
 flicking a rock off a desk) , but the environmental sounds are all spot on. The artistic direction 
 that went into the Combines sounds is simply astounding. You're not likley to forget the cries 
 a Strider makes as it comes crashing down, followed by the intensely bassy powering down. The music 
 is also a mix of solemn synths mixed with faster dancier bits when the action is at its wildest.
 
  
  The voicework deserves a paragraph of it's own. All of the characters recite very credible pieces 
 of dialogue very believably. Without the amazing voice acting it would be harder not to feel betrayed, 
 sad, worried, happy or relieved for/by them. The script is very good. Not one character stands 
 out as better than the others, and as an ensemble you have all the elements there perfectly.
  
  In closing, if this (and all the other) review (s) haven't swayed your opinion, then nothing 
 likely will. But you owe it to yourself to give it a go. One of, if not, my favourite game (s) of 
 all time. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangQuocViet
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  The graphics, gameplay and the sound is great. May be it's the best FPS game I played. I like the 
 sound and gameplay best. I think this game is the best of FPS game. I love it ! And you should 
 buy it now it is very delicious and great. I think half life 2 have a new face and very beautiful. 
 And we can say : this new age for half life. And this game always in my heart ! I never forget 
 it. It's so wonderful . Half life ! half life and half life! Bravo to this game! FOZZA HALF LIFE 
 2 and th series !!! I hope we can play half life 3 soon. And I hope it's wonderful, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch774
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is easily the most enjoyable game, With the best replay value I have ever played. It's 
 graphics, whilst a little dated by todays standards are still great and easily unnoticed when drawn 
 into the compelling storyline, Great AI and Fun Game play. The way the player has to make his way 
 throughout the story whilst solving little puzzles and figuring things out sets it apart from other 
 First person shooters. With add-ons like High Resolution Textures you can make this game look a 
 million bucks.
  
  It is a great sequel to the Original Half Life and definitely worth the money should you think 
 about buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  R u kiddin me? 9.2 is far to little to describe Half-life 2. Half life 2 has a perfect score. What 
 more could you want? It has the best graphics a game could have yet especially that it was released 
 in 2004 (it beats even these days' games' graphics) . The sound is very realistic (when u are hit 
 by a grenade or an explosion there is that beep that you would hear if u would encounter a real 
 explosion) . The gameplay is very very very good, the controls are easy to use but it takes some 
 time until u get used to them. So this is a very cool game that offers action and even environmnet 
 puzzles... u have to figure them out to pass further in the game... so it's the best game for action 
 gamers and geeks :D :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bill900
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a few months ago after beating the first of the series, and it was astounding.
 
  
  Gameplay- In a word, immersive. I felt like I was a part of this world, the other characters actually 
 had personalities and would talk to you and amongst themselves. The fact that you could pick up 
 objects other than health packs and weapons added to the experience. Graphics- Superb, some games 
 released this year don't measure up.
  
  Sound- Well done. The voice acting and sound effects were great. And although for the most part 
 the game lacked music, that is not necesarily a bad thing, and when there was music it was good 
 and added to the theme.
  
  This game was extremely well done and very enjoyable. Well worthy of a spot in anyone's game collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  At this point in time (June 2007) , more than 1,400 gamers have submitted their (mostly illiterate) 
 impressions of Half-Life 2, not to mention countless magazine, newspaper, TV and Internet media 
 reviews. There's probably nothing I can add to this perfect storm of attention that hasn't already 
 been said, so I'm going to keep my submission short and sweet. The definitive verdict on Half-Life 
 2? It's really, really, really... super. No, not supper. SUPER! Oh, just look at the damn score.
 
  
  Phill Sniper Parker.
  
  Note: Gravity gun? Best weapon, ever! Don't believe me? Use it to fling toilets against walls, 
 floors and ceilings. Senseless computer violence doesn't get any more cathartic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  I dont typically grab a brand-new title just as it arrives in stores, no matter how high the heaps 
 of pre-release buzz might elevate my anticipation. In fact, Im among the least favorite of any 
 publishers demographic: I typically sit tight, as patient as a fisherman, waiting for every purchase 
 to hit that sweet spot right in the $20-30 range. Some games take longer to get there -- I waited 
 well over a year for my copy of Republic Commando, even as my friends played it, rated it unanimously 
 as worth the cash, and chided me ceaselessly for a skinflint -- but I can wait. I offer no apologies 
 for contributing to any low sales figures or a dismal rate of pre-release reservations; after factoring 
 in the mortgage, a wife with expensive tastes, a kid with an expanding Xbox library, bills and 
 more bills, and a backlog of nearly a years worth of titles that I already own, my FPS addiction 
 must remain under control at all times.
  
  That said, I totally went against the grain (and blew my gaming budget for weeks to come) when 
 Half-Life 2 FINALLY hit shelves. I was right there in line, hopping from foot to foot in a happy 
 little pee-pee dance, ready to plunk my plastic down on GameStops counter and spend almost three 
 times what I normally allow for PC entertainment just to see what sort of mess my old pal Gordon 
 Freeman managed to step in this time. It seemed like everyone in Atlanta did the same: there were 
 no mile-long lines outside of the mall on the day HL2 came home  not like the parade of layabouts 
 that appears when new consoles hit the market  but I was still one of many, many people who converged 
 on the store at the same time to pick up their boxed copy. There was even a pair of Hooters girls, 
 clad in the short-shorted hottie regalia of their ilk, who ducked in prior to their afternoon shift 
 to pick up their reserved copy and put an end to the astonishingly long wait for the sequel to 
 a game they mightve first played back when they were tweens.
  
  The point is, Half-Life was an extremely likeable game. The word revolutionary was bandied about 
 quite a lot by those who wanted just a little bit more than mere running and gunning in their shooters, 
 and Valve earned that distinction with smart enemies that didnt just dive headlong into the players 
 waiting barrel and a new method of storytelling that removed the omniscience of cutscenes to ensure 
 that players learned about Black Mesa and Xen right alongside Gordon along a true first-person 
 narrative. There were other elements to the originals success, or course, but thats for a whole 
 nother review. So, would lightning strike twice with the sequel? I had a lot of faith in Valve, 
 despite their production delays and exposure to hackers, which is all just to say that I had no 
 qualms whatsoever about splurging on the games entire MSRP.
  
  Im still not a huge fan of direct-to-drive games  grandpa here likes to keep a tangible copy 
 of every title on hand  but Steam chugged right along [I didnt really try for that pun and didnt 
 notice it until now, while proofreading] , so my account was created, gigabytes were transferred, 
 updates were installed, and the gorgeous background for HL2s main menu (a nicely detailed street 
 scene with the Citadel towering in the distance) was on my screen in no time flat.
  
  How was the game, you ask? Frickin awesome, but most of you already know that. First off, the 
 game introduced the world to the gravity gun and all the cinderblock hurling a body can stand. 
 I wouldnt complain if a version of that particular toy appeared in every shooter ever made until 
 the end of time. Ditto for the Antlions pheromone spores, which reinvigorated the spectacle of 
 monster infighting that made fancy footwork so very rewarding in Heretic and Doom. Whereas those 
 early titles required players to catch their aggressors in a crossfire to turn them against each 
 other, or, as in Halo and the original Half-Life, to stumble upon a skirmish and then hide in the 
 shadows as it played out, HL2s spiny seedpods allowed folks to choreograph many encounters by 
 directing Gordons erstwhile allies to specific hotspots. That ability was especially useful for 
 flushing Combine soldiers out of hard-to-reach places, like the guard towers at Nova Prospekt.
 
  
  I really could go on and on about this game: plenty of detail in its settings; nifty tricks with 
 physics and vehicles; top-shelf voice work, sound effects, and animation; the sheer variety of 
 the scenarios laid out in Gordons path (including a great rendition of Dont Touch the Floor -- 
 just like the furniture climbing contests we held as kids -- where Gordon might lose a limb unless 
 he sticks to elevated pathways) ; an engine that runs as smooth as silk even on my mid-range machine; 
 and, of course, the gravity gun. In fact, all of the weapons in HL2 were incredibly fun to use: 
 the deadly-accurate pistol, a long-range crossbow that left bad guys pinned to the wall like boneless 
 puppets, machine guns in two flavors  all of them felt good to use and had their own strengths 
 against different attackersalthough, again, nothing compares to slinging bricks, live grenades, 
 flying robots, tables, chairs, radiators, barrels, and saw blades with the gravity gun, Eli Vances 
 second-greatest creation (his daughter Alyx being the first) . Valves return to the forefront of 
 many hearts and minds was nothing short of triumphant (so much so, in fact, that I suspect they 
 gave the lads at 3DRealms a dose of performance anxiety, and the world continues to wait for the 
 return of Duke) , and the further adventures of Freeman and Vance will always have an audience in 
 me whatever the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevendiep_100
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This review is dedicated to my lost halo 2 review, which was deleted by a fanboy moderator who 
 didn't want to listen to the truth. RIP Halo 2 review yesturday - today
  
  Alright, listen up you halo fanboy mother fyckers. You wimps play a crap game, heres a game for 
 someone who doesn't syck dik.
  
  gameplay: The gameplay is awsome. Unlike halo where you shoot, shoot and shoot, shoot, reload, 
 shoot, shoot, shoot you actually do more than just shoot. There are many brain squeezing puzzles 
 in the game. One of the puzzles in the game is that the ramp for your airboat to get over the wall 
 was too short, what do you do? You get barrels and pile them under the ramp to make it higher! 
 If it was halo you'd probably shoot the barrel. The physics in the game are top knotch, they they 
 obey friction, gravity and mass . And unlike other games that have physics, you can actually do 
 something with them. Using the gravity gun, anything from soda cans to cinder blocks are your ammunition. 
 graphics: The graphics are beautiful. Everything has a shadow, if you put a soda can ontop of a 
 table, the fycking soda can shodow appears on the table. Bullet holes are even realistic, when 
 you shoot metal (a car for example) the hole is black with white around it. Well its hard to explain, 
 you have to play it for yourself. Blood looks good, if you shoot someone, blood appears on the 
 character model where you shot him. The character models are very awsome, the face has 40 different 
 facial muscles so you don't find crap face animation like in halo where the mouth just moves up 
 and down, if the character is angry then his eyebrows will go down, his mouth will go into a grin, 
 etc.
  
  sound: The sound is very clear and good. Voice acting is very quality, makes the characters come 
 to life. Normally, I need subtitles becuase half the games I play have craptacular voice acting, 
 but this game I can hear everything perfectly. Alithough, one thing I have about the sound is that 
 when boxes break, theres this stupid clink sound. Other than that, the sound is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Half Life makes its long awaited return and is better than ever, it's arguably the best fps since 
 the original Half Life and that is not an understatement, Half Life 2 is a very polished package, 
 from the graphics to the story everything just fits.
  
  You again play Gordon Freeman and the story starts when you come back to earth or more specifically 
 city 17 after having worked for the mysterious gman for some time, however earth has been taken 
 over by a mysterious race of aliens known as the Combine and it is up to you and a rebellion featuring 
 some new and old characters who you will come to love to put an end to it. The story is presented 
 in the same fashion as Half Life 1 and is just as effective, if not more effective but it does 
 seem rather unforfilled and there are some loose ends that just shouldnt be there. The gameplay 
 is still quite similiar to HL1 aswell however with some notable additions and advancements, the 
 AI again is superb and the Combine soldiers (the main enemy you face) all work exteremely well 
 together and function almost like a proper squad utilising cover and doing their best to outsmart 
 you and kill you. The only problem is that they do tend to die quite easily and it does limit the 
 amount of variety of enemies that you fight compared to HL1. You also can fight alongside your 
 own teammates which does add another dimension to the game and is quite enjoyable, however they 
 are a bit too expendable and you will constantly find new people to take their place in the levels 
 where they are available to you. Vehicles are also available and although the vehicular sections 
 dont last too long they are a hell of alot of fun.
  
  The most notable addition too Half Life though, is the physics engine which is nothing short of 
 amazing. Everything object there is in the game will move and react to weight and bullets accordingly 
 and really makes the game alot of fun. Add the gravity gun to this, a gun which picks up, moves 
 and throws almost anything that you can see and you really start to understand why this is so important 
 to the game and makes HL2 great instead of just good. Combined with a fantastic graphics engine, 
 alot of great level design and character design and HL2 starts to show why it has become such a 
 hit in recent times.
  
  Half Life 2 is everything its cracked up to be and it also comes along with counterstrike source 
 as the multiplayer component and basically if you like first person shooters, you will love half 
 life 2. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Half-Life 2? That it deserves to have its own temple dedicated to its greatness? 
 Perhaps, however the game itself is a temple to greatness. Half-life 2 is what every game should 
 be inspired to be.
  Where to begin? The games storyline is incredible. The people who wrote this thing are brilliant. 
 The story is gripping, in depth, unpredictable. It really puts you into the thick of things and 
 always keeps you in the first person from beginning to end. You follow Gordon Freeman, the theoretical 
 physicist that kicked so many butts in the first Half-life. Hes back and hes not going to take 
 it anymore. Using a wide range of weapons at your disposal from a crowbar to shot guns to a Zero 
 point energy field manipulator also known as the gravity gun youll fight your way past the Combine 
 and other less than hospitable critters.
  Speaking of the Gravity Gun, lets talk physics. The physics in this game are the best in the world, 
 bar none. Seriously, I have a hard time telling the difference between this game and the real world, 
 and I study physics! Its very interactive. Anything and anything in the game can be turned into 
 a weapon, especially with the addition of the gravity gun. Out of ammo? Zombies closing in on you? 
 Grab a saw blade and shoot it at em, cutting them in half. Thatll show em. Whos your daddy now? 
 Combine in your way? Antlions not being friendly? Toss em an exploding barrel. How you like THEM 
 apples? The gravity gun is also very useful in solving some of the more devious puzzles of the 
 game. Did I mention you could throw benches at enemies?
  The supporting cast in the game are great. The voice acting is wonderful as is the interaction 
 with you. You find yourself actually caring about them and their health. On occasion they are actually 
 helpful to you. You even get to lead squads of lesser characters, usually to their deaths, but 
 youll love them when youre in a real fight and theyre drawing fire away from you and killing 
 zombies and head crabs.
  Graphics in the game are spectacular. The people, the enemies, and the blood stained putrid surroundings 
 of whatever waste pit youve fallen into. Theyre all beautiful. Youll want to take your time 
 and explore and just look at the scenery, but watch out for head crabs.
  In HL2 you also get to operate a variety of vehicles. An air boat, a crane, and a dune buggy. (God 
 I love that dune buggy. They stole it from me! My precious!)
  One of the best features of this game is the 64 bit mode for people with 64 bit processors. Valve 
 really went out of their way to make a superior game that can be experienced to the fullest with 
 very high end systems.
  I could go on and on about this game but bottom line is to experience it for yourself. Go, buy 
 it. What are you still doing here? GO! Stop reading this and go buy it and play! Play like youve 
 never played before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedMan72
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  in 1998 half life came out and it was awesome but then in 2004 there was half life 2 and it changed 
 everything a shooter should be like its older brother.
  its 3 years after that and it still has awesome graphics and it will run on just about any pc (i 
 dont have the best video card and it still looks awesome) .
  but its not just graphics cards when it comes 2 this game, you really need a fast prosseser and 
 a bit of ram (1gb or better id say) but im not runin the fastest thing in the world and it still 
 runs great!!
  anyways this is a piece of art when it comes 2 games and is byfar the 1 of the best games ive ever 
 played!!!!!
  p. s. check out my system stats at http://www. xfire. com/profile/speedman72
  and scroll down till you get 2 gaming rig. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: One Word: Amazing so much to do and kill. PRetty much just walk and drive killing combine 
 and completing the amazing story line
  
  Graphics: Very Very good 2004 looks even better than some of todays games Valve and VU did a great 
 job on these graphics and creating the steam engine to do it.
  
  Sound: Lots of sound going on at once gunfire yelling and explosions and sometimes just random 
 conversations between people at the beginning of city 17.. each charcter has a diffrent voice actor. 
 Music is good to music gets faster when there is a battle. And suspenceful during walking parts.
 
  
  Value- Its only 20-30 bucks right now ( ive seen it 10 bucks once) plus it comes with 2 other games
 
  
  Replayability: Very High several easter eggs to find and gman sittings to look for.. and the game 
 is just very enjoyable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicbill
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game has a very good combinations of graphics, story line, sounds, and everything in between! 
 The story is the best part about it! I have never seen such a great story in a game! The graphics 
 are in between Xbox and Xbox 360, if you have the graphics turned up. The models are very detailed, 
 and it is one of few games were the lips go with what they are saying :P. This game will last you 
 hours of game play, and even more if you go through and finish it, then go back with mods! GET 
 THIS GAME IF YOU LIKE FPS's!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThereIsNoEscape
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I think it's safe to say that everyone who is a fan of FIrst-Person Shooters should own this game. 
 Its great use of physics creates an interactive experience for gamers that sets it apart from other 
 games of its kind. You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist who attempts to stop the world from 
 an alien invasion. I've never played the original Half Life, but I think it's safe to say that 
 the story in HL2 is very difficult to follow, and anyone who is not willing to observe every single 
 detail they had missed will probably not understand it. This being said, the story in Half Life 
 2 can be very lackluster, which does drag the thrill of the game down a bit. Nevertheless, the 
 enjoyable experience it makes for gamers more than makes up for its flaws.
  
  As stated before, the physics that Half Life 2 has to offer will show gamers a new experience that 
 they haven't had in many other games before: environmental interactivity. For example, when I hit 
 a wooden shelf with a crowbar, I want it to break. Half Life 2 demonstrates just that. In fact, 
 one of its most important weapons, the Gravity Gun, focuses solely on this factor of the game, 
 and it will be useful for many things you come across. While you aren't busy engaging in an intense 
 battle of non-stop action, you will often find many mind-challenging situations you run across. 
 Some of these may be as simple as moving cement blocks off an object, while others may take some 
 time to figure out. There are many of these puzzles that are more obvious than others, but they 
 create an inviting experience that you probably haven't had with any game other than the Half Life 
 series.
  
  Like many other shooting games, you won't always be on foot shooting up enemies. In a point of 
 the campaign (one that you will reach rather quickly) , you have the opportunity to travel in a 
 boat. This will be very useful and is necessary by all means for you to make it any further in 
 the game. Due to the game's open environment, it makes traveling in vehicles more fun than you 
 could ever imagine would be possible in a video game. This is a good thing, because you will be 
 traveling in this boat for quite a while if you decide to take advantage of the area you are around. 
 You can travel to areas that you don't need to, but the areas you do decide to opt-in on usually 
 give you somewhat of a rewarding compromise. This makes the game even more enjoyable to explore, 
 and makes the game feel much less linear. There are many more twists and turns you will encounter 
 in Half Life 2. For example, there are bugs that will appear from sand in one point in the game 
 that attack you, and so many will appear that it will make death almost inevitable if you don't 
 comply to what are you instructed to do. However, you eventually get Bug Bait in the game, that 
 will attract the bugs to you, and they will fight enemies for you, which definitely helps in certain 
 situations of the game. Another example is a Gravity Gun and suit upgrade you get towards the end 
 of the game, which is very useful, considering you lose nearly all your weapons towards that point. 
 With the Gravity Gun upgrade, you can move all the objects you could previously move before, along 
 with heavier ones that you could not. In addition to this, you can pick up enemies and incinerate 
 them simply by left clicking.
  
  There will also be other instances in your adventure through Half Life 2 that require lots of teamwork. 
 And while your enemy AI is for the most part good, your team AI is what struggles you to get through 
 a mission as quickly as you should be able to. You will often find your teammates in the way of 
 where you are trying to go, which can be annoying, especially in a situation where you have to 
 move quickly, as to get away from a grenade or anything of the sort. However, this doesn't mean 
 that your teammates will be useless, by any means, as there are many parts of the game where you 
 will have so many enemies rushing towards you that it is absolutely necessary to have some help.
 
  
  If you are a big fan of graphics, then you will find Half Life 2 an absolutely remarkable game. 
 Though it was made a while ago and is beginning to show it's age, it still looks stunning. You 
 will often find yourself in amazement by the incredibly detailed environments and character models. 
 For it's time, this was probably the best looking game out there, and it remained that way for 
 a while. Not only this, but it sounds great as well, as music will usually present itself at the 
 right moment, and explosions and gunshots usually sound great as well. Even though there are better 
 looking games now, that doesn't mean this game still doesn't look amazing. However, the graphical 
 intensity that the game has does present consequences to some. While you will most likely get a 
 great framerate on most computers that have half-way decent video cards, loading times can be rather 
 bothersome. The game itself doesn't take too long to load, but there are rather frequent areas 
 in the game that have to load separately. With a high-end PC with the right amount of memory, this 
 should not take more than a few seconds. Still, it does detract from the gameplay somewhat. Another 
 thing to note about Half Life 2, is that it's not the most challenging game I have ever played. 
 However, you will still run into some very difficult situations. Like I stated before, you will 
 have to use a lot of thinking in certain areas of the game, in order to find out how you get to 
 a certain place. The campaign took me roughly 21 hours, then again, it took me an awful long while 
 to figure out what to do at certain areas. For most players, it should take between 14 and 20 hours. 
 If you enjoyed the campaign as much as I did, you will probably find yourself playing it a second 
 time, though on a different difficulty level to make the game more challenging, or you will at 
 least replay certain chapters of the game. And when you feel you are truly done with playing the 
 campaign, the Deathmatch game that's bundled with it has multi-player that can be entertaining.
 
  
  While HL2: Deathmatch isn't nearly as enjoyable as Counter Strike: Source, it still presents itself 
 well. The deathmatch mode is rather mindless, you simply choose a server and try to kill as many 
 people as possible. The only other mode available for online play is Team Deathmatch, which is 
 basically the same thing, but is not as mindless due to the fact that you are working cooperatively 
 with certain people to kill the other team. Fun as it may be, especially considering weapons such 
 as the Gravity Gun, it does get repetitive after a while, which is where the vast amount of mods 
 come in. There is an amazing variety of user-created modifications to choose from, which will make 
 you realize just how long Half Life 2 will last you, and you undoubtedly will be trying out the 
 different mods for a long while.
  
  If you are a fan of FPS games, or even only a casual FPS player, Half Life 2 is a game that will 
 offer an incredible experience that will be well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm a little late on reviewing this of all titles, but in honor of the new episodes coming out 
 for it, I must say this is just one of the, if not THE, greatest.... A unique world you're put 
 in when you start... Amazing graphics, the gameplay is perfect, originality, awesome sound and 
 music, crazy story, everything. It really is amazing. You feel like you're really there, in city 
 17 and it all gets better and better... I was engulfed by the entire feeling of playing this game 
 and the experience of fighting on the streets solving those neat little puzzles that don't need 
 too much though, but though nonetheless, the action, the story, you get the picture... Wow... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalashaska88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  This is the best PC game I have ever played. Period. I have waited for quite awhile for this game 
 to come out, and it was well worth the wait. Half life 2 delivers an experience even its legendary 
 predecessor did not reach. The game's stability is fantastic, since the game could run on older 
 systems, and still looked gorgeous. The detail that is incorporated into the game's environment 
 is incredible. Running on the ubiquitous Source engine, you interact with almost everything in 
 the world that you are given. You can even use the game's physics to turn the tables against the 
 combine forces.
  
  In the first Half Life, Freeman's experience is pretty much a lonely one, not much characters that 
 felt close to you. However in Half Life 2, almost all the characters did a great job in giving 
 you a sense that they have emotions, they care, they laugh, and think, all to make the world more 
 believable, and add colors to the plot of man vs alien.
  
  The game is long. For an FPS, it can last up to 20 hours and not a minute of it is dull. This is 
 an example of a game that is sublime, and to me was ahead of its time. Astonishing. Magnificent. 
 Powerful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanzerMatt
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  Though this review comes a little late having played through Half Life Source and Episode 1 on 
 HARD (Hint: GameSpot before saying its too easy try ramping up the difficulty a notch) Half-Life 
 2 is without doubt the finished article its graphix still look phenomenal 2day with the constantly 
 updating Steam and Source Engines saving us from copyrighters as well. HAlf-Life 2 follows on from 
 1 in which Gordon Freeman The Mute Scientist arrives just in the knick of time to witness a catastrophe 
 and happens to become wnated, begin the endless tear into innovative Combine who hide behind cover 
 and snipe from camoflage as well as my old favourites the hear crabs and headzombies being as thick 
 as ever they walk strait into spinny blade hehe diced in half. People say it gets boring SPOILER: 
 the gravgun become charged at the end and you can smash soldiers heads against others END. All 
 you have to do is wait, the big fight with the strider at the end in the Combine palace is also 
 fun as it roars at you in it War Of THE Worlds style and you just (GIVE AWAY) grab an energy ball 
 and blow it up in one
  
  All in all my experience of HL2 has left it top of my game charts! BUY IT NOW IF U HAVE A AVERAGE 
 CPU OR XBOX OR 360 (compatible with Backward play) U WILL NOT REGRET IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvin950
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  half-life two is a very great game indeed. The game play is very fun. There are many puzzles to 
 solve in the single player mode. I didnt really play the first person mode at all. I just got it 
 for the mods. mods like gmod and zombie mod for counter strike (included with HL2) make it worthwhile. 
 I purchased hl2 just for gmod and CS.  Head crabs 
 rule! Also, the graphics are very smooth even if u have a bad graphics card. There are many goodies 
 in this game and i dont wana list em all cause if u buy it, u could find out by ur self. I will 
 list the flaws tho. First, if u dont have high speed internet, dont bother buying it. Cause U HAVE 
 TO RUN STEAM which is purley online based. And constant updates have to be downloaded which may 
 take hours for slow internet users. Installation is a pain if u dont already have a Steam acount, 
 and also, it is the most unstable game i have ever played (mabye it is just my comp) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy playing this game. The story is told not from a movie, but with you interacting 
 with the characters. The levels are well paced and well designed. It makes you think without ever 
 leaving you stuck or scratching your head on where you should go next. The levels are linear without 
 feeling too claustrophobic. I love how the enemies are designed as well. The enemies are really 
 original and while it handles like a true FPS, it feels like an FPS should feel. The weapon design 
 is great. The weapons handle well and are really satisfying to shoot . All in all I believe that 
 everyone should play this game if they haven't already. The multiplayer for me is hard to get into 
 right now because of how good the community is, what with a 3 year jump on me. It would have been 
 nice to have bought this game at launch so I could keep up with everyone, but I like MMO's as well 
 so no great loss to me in the multiplayer department. If you like shooters, then pick this bad 
 boy up. It's like $20 right now and well worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is an excellent first person shooter, it takes place in City 17 after the events of 
 Half-Life and the world is still over-run by alien creatures.
  
  The gameplay is nothing but pure fun and action ranging from many different locations from a train 
 yard to a zombie infested town and much more. You are also left to find you own way around in the 
 game instead of being told where to go, this make s the game feel like its flowing along as you 
 play it. There are also changes in gameplay as you can drive two vehicles at certain points in 
 the game a hovercraft and a jeep-buggy and they both have action parts to play through like the 
 hovercraft trying to evade a gunship, and the buggy trying to dodge an oncomming train on a bridge.
 
  
  You can pick up nearly all the weapons from half-Life 1 like a crossbow, SMG, pistol, shotgun, 
 magnum, RPG, grenades and the trademark Crowbar along with 3 new weapons like a pulse rifle, bugbait 
 (it alows you to summon Antlions and control them) and the gravity gun which alows you to pick 
 up and throw objects showing off how valve can make amazing physics engines.
  
  Half -Life 2 also features stunning voice acting and amazing character animations as each character 
 was modeled with 40 facial muscels alowing many expressions to be shown as they interact in the 
 games story. the sound effects are also very well done to match the mood of a part of the game 
 eg in Ravenholm the zombie infested town you can here the odd window breakning in the distance 
 or the cry of a zombie giving an erie horror atmosphere, not to mention the sounds your guns can 
 make. The graphics are perfect i can't really think of any game that can match the level of graphic 
 detail Half-Life 2 can deliver. From water effects to the light reflecting of you gun its trully 
 amazing and even when running on low settings the game still looks great
  
  This game should take about 20 hours to complete at first and if you liked it i would recommend 
 getting deathmatch as that is also very fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  This is a true FPS and this sequel is actually better than the original. A true classic which mixes 
 action with horror and suspence a true classic. Graphics: These are some of the best around on 
 the pc better than some ps3 games. The detail is stunning and none of the maps look boring. No 
 dull enviorments here. The enemes are terrfying and have had alot of work put into each character 
 model visually amazing.
  
  Gameplay: great fun. It seems like you are really in control finding your own way to this next 
 checkpoint without any assistance your going to need wit and have alot more observation. Little 
 details can get you around. The game is fun with so much action including vehicles and a massive 
 arsenal. Sound: Guns sound real, death Sounds Real, Vehicles sound real what more could you want?
 
  
  Physics/Realism: All together the physics are great the enemie AI is amazing making this game more 
 of a challenge. It has loads of great vehicle physics on speed and turning handling seems real. 
 Overall: Bigger and better than Halo and the first Half Life probably the best shooter around with 
 loads of extras making it great value for money including the amazing Counter Strike: source. The 
 only error in the game i find is the extreme difficulty at times and the length. For some people 
 this may seem like a chore but nevertheless a triumph for gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockard34
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 29, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is the best out of all the half life's also the campaign is better in the half life 
 2 then the half life but the thing i like most about half life 2 is the weapons there were alot 
 of new weapons compared to the regular half life and just the gameplay and the feel on half life 
 2 is just better this time around. The multiplayer is probaly the best part about the game when 
 you play the multiplayer you might just watn to sit there all day and play it becuase of how exciting 
 is really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  At the time of this review this is the peoples favorite in the FPS genre. This is the one you wont 
 waste your money on. This is the one you may still be playing 5 years from now, kinda like that 
 really good Sierra game you probably played too, so if you haven't jumped on the wagon yet I highly 
 suggest you do so!
  
  This game runs like liquid gold. I recently upgraded my memory so I'm running really nice now and 
 have some room to really lean back but even on a rather standard system this game is going to get 
 some nice latency and pings on a local server without making it look bad so if you meet the minimum 
 don't worry about quality because its still going to look good.
  
  Thats all Im going to say because other people have said the rest probably better than I have. 
 The only thing I will add is that you should pick up a good headset with a quality microphone. 
 I suggest anything by Logitech as they are the market leader and most trusted of the bunch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nozgrd74
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This game has so far, truly set the standards for all fps's to come. The story line of this game 
 is stellar, graphics are incredible, sound is excellent, physics are the best ever seen in a game.
 
  
  gameplay- this game is heralded as one of the greatest games ever, well it is. Due to the unique 
 uses with the gravity gun, very intelligent puzzles, a whole lot of fun killing enemies, and the 
 incredibly realistic physics. This game involves everything and more than you would expect from 
 an fps. Solid as heck game. Also this game has several several several hidden secrets in it that 
 will make you want to keep playing so you can uncover them.
  
  Graphics- graphics are absolutely amazing, everything looks great, nothing looks bad in anyway 
 shape or form. Absolutely beautiful looking game.
  
  Sound- every sound you hear from this game is just great. Nothing bad about the sound at all or 
 in any way.
  
  Value- every gamer needs to check this game out..... just not on the xbox... the pc version only. 
 BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoi_24
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 25, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Probably the most amazing first person shooter ever created. Whenever I think the greatest first 
 person shooter, the automatic response is Half Life DUH . While mediocre games like Halo hogged 
 the spotlight, this gem shined to the eyes of much fewer viewers. Continuously at my school the 
 shooter of choice is Halo. And then I have to hold down my vomit. The unbelievable graphics and 
 incomparable game-play are simply amazing. You will play for at least 20-25 hours, simply because 
 you are so busy exploring. The story is pretty decent, falling short of the first one, but everything 
 else makes up for it.
  
  Pros- BEAUTIFUL graphics, intelligent A. I., great sound, AMAZING environment, unsurpassed game-play, 
 good story, more than impressive physics, and the beginning sequence with the rebel crackdown is 
 awesome.
  
  Cons- Hard to find any. If I had to pick on anything it would be the slightly lacking story and 
 over cheery characters. I doubt most anybody would be that happy in such a time of such crisis, 
 let alone all the main characters. Also the protagonist does not talk.
  
  You really have to play it to experience this masterpiece. I recommend this not only to first-person 
 shooter fans, but EVERY gamer out there, because its not only a game, its an experience. You can 
 practically feel the combine soldiers chasing after you and the recoil of the shotgun in your hand. 
 SO GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a popular game franchise, it has a incredibly big mod community.
  
  Half-Life 2 starts you of as Gordon Freeman, a silent protaganist from the Black Mesa research 
 facility, after the accident where a portal to another alien dimension gets opened, creatures (including 
 pesky headcrabs) look to conquer the world, and they almosted had it to.
  
  You wake up in a train after getting introduced by the mysterious G-man who wants you to smell 
 the ashes of what happened behind the accident, as you venture into City 17 you'll be greeted with 
 a dictator of City 17, Dr Breene, who was announced somewhat king after he made a pact with the 
 Combine soldiers, who are either humans/aliens brainwashed by Dr Breene to kill rebels and what 
 not, they'll be you're main enemy for the game, next to zombies and combine synths.
  
  Half-Life 2:
  
  Gameplay:
  Default WASD keys, and buttons to activate mechanism and to use 
 you're flashlight, you are also in you're HEV suit, which is a combat suit that gives armor and 
 has the ability to cure you from headcrab poison, there are also some puzzles in the game which 
 will be using the incredibly physics engine from Source, in some parts you'll be giving a gravity 
 gun, used to shoot objects to enemies, and in later levels you'll get a Blue gravity gun which 
 is able to kill enemies, and shoot them away. Gameplay is really default but with some twitches 
 in it, making it funner.
  
  Graphics:
  The game supports great graphics, the game is known for great graphics and always has been something 
 extra, the scripted water looks amazing, and how the textures look from far and up close, they 
 are stunning atleast.
  
  AI:
  Enemies flank you, split in groups and duck cover, if you toss a grenade to them they'll start 
 splitting up and roar something crazy, if they are able to shoot you they'll take change rather 
 then taking defensive positions.
  
  Story:
  Gripping story in the beginning, but gets forgotten somewhat in some parts, but those make up from 
 first-person scripted events, which are a plenty in this game.
  
  Levels:
  Zombie invested town, concentration camp, deserted land, kanals, huge highway filled with cinematic 
 views of tropical and exotic farlands, City 17 looks great, the architecture in the citadel is 
 amazing.
  
  Is the FPS good:
  It is certainly a good FPS, it combines puzzle elements with snazzy gameplay and fantastic graphics, 
 in combination for what all Half-life 2 stands for it is a must have for all who are just slightly 
 interested in FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tt1tt1tt1
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 (HL2) is a science fiction first-person shooter computer game that is the sequel to 
 Half-Life. It was developed by the Valve Software Corporation and was released on November 16, 
 2004, following a protracted five-year development cycle [1] during which the game's source code 
 was leaked to the Internet. [2] The game garnered near unanimous positive reviews and received critical 
 acclaim, [3] [4] [5] winning over 35 Game of the Year awards for 2004. [6] Originally available only 
 for Windows-based personal computers, the game has since been ported onto the Xbox console, and 
 is also due to be released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in 2007. [7]
  
  Taking place in and around the fictional City 17 sometime in the near future, Half-Life 2 follows 
 the scientist Gordon Freeman. Dr. Freeman is thrust into a dystopian environment in which the aftermath 
 of the Black Mesa Incident has come to bear fully upon human society. Freeman is forced to fight 
 against increasingly unfavorable odds in order to survive. In his struggle, he is joined by various 
 allies, including fellow Black Mesa colleagues, oppressed citizens of City 17, and the Vortigaunts.
 
  
  The game uses the Source game engine, which includes a heavily modified version of the Havok physics 
 engine. [8] Half-Life 2 has been critically acclaimed for advances in computer animation, sound, 
 narration, computer graphics, artificial intelligence (AI) and physics. When sales figures were 
 last announced, over four million copies of Half-Life 2 had been sold. [9] Exact numbers for digital 
 delivery service Steam and retail have not been revealed, but in general, the former accounts for 
 25% of Valve's business and is significantly more profitable per unit. [10] [11] Overall, the Half-Life 
 franchise, including Counter-Strike and Day of Defeat, has seen over 15 million sales. [12] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximiliator
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I bought this game 2005,
  
  and when I started playing it, I was really shocked. I played Half-Life 1 before, and it was ingenious, 
 but Half life 2 surpasses all. The ideas, which Valve had for this game are just perfect. It was 
 not just a shooter like Doom or Quake. You had to think about what you were doing ! It was not 
 just shooting. It was thinking, too.
  
  My favorite level is Water Hazard , because you are driving around in a hover-craft. At first, 
 you just have to drive, but then you get a weapon on you boat, and start shooting. The funny thing 
 is, that nearly everything is destructible, like in RL. You can crash trough wooden planks, and 
 they don&acute; t just disappear, they split apart, and swim in the water afterwards. I think the 
 grapcik was really brilliant for this time !
  
  I can just say, i&acute; m totally happy with this game !
  
  And i recommend to buy it for everyone, 
 who doesnt habe it yet !
  
  Max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofnintendo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 had an incredibly hard act to follow after the incredible success and popularity of 
 the original Half Life, which will go down in gaming folklore as the best FPS in PC history, perhaps 
 even the best FPS ever. However despite the challenge of such a superior predecessor, Half-Life 
 2 delivers on all fronts with a game that's fun, addictive and immersive.
  
  Once again Gordon Freeman is on a mission, but this time it's to bring down the totalitarian administration 
 that has seized control of Earth, commanded as they are by Earth's alien conquerors. Armed with 
 his classic crowbar, along with a wide variety of other toys, Freeman must work with a wide variety 
 of characters to free Earth from the oppressive rule of the Overwatch.
  
  The gameplay is your usual FPS affair; point the gun at the opponent and shoot. However the combat 
 sequences have really nice pacing to them and every enemy from headcrabs to Striders is very satisfying 
 to kill and destroy. The team function is also included in the game and is vital in certain levels 
 as you work with the rebels in your attempts to overthrow the administration. With a tiny bit of 
 puzzle solving to go along with the fun combat, Half-Life 2 plays like a FPS should; its fun to 
 shoot things.
  
  Half-Life 2 benefits greatly from updated graphics and everything from environments to guns to 
 enemies looks very well defined and visually impressive. The characters look and react well and 
 the game presents each new terrain well.
  
  The sound in Half-Life 2 is very much above average, and in gameplay adds a lot of atmosphere to 
 the gaming experience. Voice acting is above average as well although not mindblowing and the music 
 is a nice addition to the game without being overpowering or taking away from the action.
  
  The game's quest line, structured by 14 levels, is fairly simplistic; you'll cross a border 
 from one level to the next. The total gameplay lasts are 20 to 30 hours and the game almost certainly 
 improves as time moves along, and it's definitely value for money.
  
  However one thing truly stands out when you play Half-Life 2; the game designers did a phenomenal 
 job creating a sense of atmosphere within each level. Everything from the dank and dirty sewers 
 complete with dripping sounds to the chaos and noise of fighting in City 17, the gameplay experience 
 is made just that much more fun by feeling like an authentic and believable FPS.
  
  In no level is the sense of atmosphere so evident and effective as Ravenholm, a dark evil place 
 inhabited by numerous monsters. The level is incredibly darkly lit and the rooms are so well designed 
 to a horrific ideal that you almost feel like you've slipped into a Resident Evil game. There are 
 moments in the level that are literally scary, as battling off monsters in dimly lit shacks with 
 walls covered in blood is qute an unforgettable gaming experience.
  
  There are a number of incredibly fun extra features to the game to keep things interesting. In 
 one level you will man a hover boat through the pollution and radiation infected waters, in another 
 you man an all-terrain vehicle and have to drive across country. However one of the most pleasing 
 features in the game is the use of bug bait, through which you can command a small army of antlions 
 to attack your foes, which is a great help in a situation where you are outnumbered.
  
  I found the story to be immersive and enjoyable as Freeman interacts with a number of characters 
 to free the world from the oppressive forces, although the ending does leave the player feeling 
 somewhat bewildered and confused after the huge climax of overcoming the evil of Dr. Breen and 
 the Combine. Despite this, the story does add a strong extra dimension to the game and adds to 
 the overall immersiveness of the experience; you could find as I did that Half-Life 2 takes over 
 your life for a good few days as you work your way through the levels.
  
  So did Valve succeed in matching their former masterpiece Half Life in this sequal? Not quite, 
 but what they did deliver is an incredibly fun and memorable gaming experience. While certainly 
 still outshone by its predecessor, Half-Life 2 on its own merits is one of the greatest FPS' ever 
 created for the PC.
  
  The sense of atmosphere, the immersive story, the fun but simplistic gameplay aided by a number 
 of special features and superior graphics combine to create a First Person Shooter that won't be 
 soon forgotten by those who played it. Half-Life 2 is a game that if not for the impossibly high 
 expectations created by its predecessor would be judged as a triumph in game development, and a 
 game for the ages. THUMBS UP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 17, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I've played this twice, once when it came out, and again just last week. I like HL better. HL2 
 has phenomenal graphics and generally great gameplay, but some sections are a disappointment. I 
 absolutely loved the transformed gravity gun in the Citadel. That was an total blast. I have mixed 
 feeling about the vehicles. It was fun for a while, but then got old quick. I just don't associate 
 FPS games with much vehicle driving, and don't think it really added much to the game.
  
  Sections of the game, particularly in the prison, come across as completely contrived. You have 
 to defend a certain area while you wait for Alyx, the slowest companion I've ever had in a game. 
 It just comes across as completely manufactured. There's another scene in a courtyard. You have 
 a small squad to defend Alyx as she tries to hack a computer. Squad tactics are too simple to be 
 of much use, and the onslaught of what I think are infinite enemies is almost constant. Alyx also 
 turns out to be the slowest hacker in City 17. All of which made that scene the most difficult 
 in the game for me. Sound in Vista x64 wasn't very good. One of the ant lion scenes was marred 
 by constant sound stuttering. Could be my 680i motherboard. Or Creative X-Fi drivers. I flashed 
 to an older BIOS which helped some. Episode One had similar problems and eventually I reinstalled 
 that game on Win XP. I have a dual boot on this system, so same hardware, and Episode One on Win 
 XP was fine. I wish I had moved over to XP for HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  In the world of both movies and video games, it's very difficult to make a sequel that not only 
 matches the previous one, but outdoes it. Way back in the Mid 90's a little game called Half-Life 
 took the unrealistic  level FPSes were prominent (fun 
 nonetheless, but nothing out of the ordinary) . Then HL1 appeared, and the gaming industry opened 
 their eyes and dropped their jaws. But enough on the history lesson, let's talk about what HL2 
 does right, and what it does perfectly. It's 10 years-ish after we were last with Gordon and it's 
 not looking so hot, combine has invaded pretty heavily and most of where you'll be running around 
 is in the middle of all of it: City-17. G-man's planted you back and now it's your turn to start 
 taking care of business, ASAP. The gameplay takes the original HL Hud, keeps it almost with the 
 exact weaponry, cleaned up a great amount. You'll be dealing with plenty of old and new enemies (mostly 
 new) , and taking much more interesting steps to keep the action as intense as possible - aka the 
 boats, go-karts, Massive explosions. And yet in all of this, the suspension of disbelief is still 
 kept intact, it feels like you can't believe it IS happening, and that's exactly what a great video 
 game does. The graphics are state-of-the-art at the time it was made, it still looks bootylicious, 
 creating a terrifying realism. The Soundtrack is a nice selection between techno, errie ambience, 
 and other little goodies you'll find inside, bringing the feeling of constant action going on. 
 The longevity of this game is pretty great: If you're like me, you'll play it again, and maybe 
 a third time too just to see the few things you might've missed. The package comes with the legendary 
 CS: Source, and the HL2 Deathmatch is still a hell of a lot of fun. It's hard to see something 
 wrong with the game, the only conceivable parts would be incredibly minor. If you want to play 
 one of the best shooters ever made, of all time, get this game. This game is nearly flawless, and 
 you'll see why once you give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zodix
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Remember the first Half-Life? Sure you do. Can you believe it has really been six years since we 
 were all traveling into Black Mesa only to be running out screaming for help. What we all remember 
 as well is how many awards Half-Life received. This set some pretty pressuring standards for the 
 sequel. Valve was quiet for many years, little did we know of such a beauty they were working to 
 release. Remember when you saw the first screenshots and trailers and thinking, 'I want to play 
 that'? Sure you did. Well, you can put that anticipation aside because it's here. We installed 
 the game and relived that moment we had when we played its predecessor, but was it as amazing and 
 memorable as the last?
  
  Once again, you play as Gordon Freeman after the unfortunate events that took place at Black Mesa, 
 after you were given the choice. The game starts off with you being greeted by the G-man saying 
 your time has come again. However, you don't know exactly how much time has passed since the first 
 game as you appear suddenly on a train headed for City 17. They don't really pound you with too 
 much plot in the beginning, or through the game really, I suspect you'll have to dig it out yourself 
 as they don't tell you up front what is going on. Things just happen as you get involved in the 
 mess around you similar to Half-Life 1. For the most part, the game is enjoyable all the way through 
 as it gets more and more intense, but it may take an open mind for some to enjoy the ending as 
 it really doesn't do a good job of answering any questions, and topples you with more.
  
  To start off, I'd like to mention that I rather enjoyed Half-Life 2. It's a lot of fun, with much 
 variety of things to do throughout the game such as taking out a gunship or driving an air boat 
 through obstacles while being fired upon by a helicopter. Half-Life 1 had you face monsters and 
 bosses like the tentacles and gargs (and who could forget Big Momma) . Well, Half-Life 2 features 
 a new array of enemies such as manhacks (which are flying buzz saws) , antlions and the H. G. Wells 
 inspired Striders. At least you can take comfort that there are still a few familiar faces like 
 the barnacles and headcrabs.
  
  Immediately after getting off the train at the beginning of the game, I had to play around with 
 the physics. They give you the opportunity as they scatter the ground with cans and boxes. I must've 
 spent a good half hour playing with the them, but I suppose I'm easily amused. Tossing objects 
 in the air, at the wall, at the Combine and laughing as they angrily charge me with their shock 
 sticks. The physics does a good job immersing you into the world because it adds a certain realism 
 to the overall feel. Like how you can take a box, throw it in the water and it'll bounce and float. 
 When you obtain the Zero Point Energy Field Manipulator Gun (or gravity gun) , it'll really add 
 to the physics experience as you'll be able to pick up objects heavier than you can carry and launch 
 it across the room. When you get around to killing people, you'll notice the ragdoll physics which 
 look pretty cool, and not overdone. There are many other examples of the physics at work, but you 
 should just experience it for yourself.
  
  The game is down right beautiful. The graphics engine was built with outdoor environments in mind, 
 and they are spectacular. Valve has done a good job of blending indoor and outdoor environmental 
 detail. The developers also demonstrated a feature of the engine called 3D skyboxes, which allows 
 buildings or structures to appear in the distance (rendered in 3D of course) , rather than showing 
 the surrounding environment merely on a texture. The main issue here is that despite the beautiful 
 outdoor environments, they'll start feel enclosed after awhile. The game is setup similar to Half-Life 
 1, where the world is built up of a series of maps tied together by load points and they aren't 
 exactly large maps either. I felt like I was hitting the load checkpoints too often and it took 
 awhile a bit of the immersion from my experience. With this, came the linear level design. You 
 travel throughout the game in a linear like fashion without any real free exploration. However, 
 the scenery is ever changing and diverse with different gameplay elements as you go, so I feel 
 Valve made up for its lacking features.
  
  An unfortunate downfall is the artificial intelligence. It isn't very realistic as the guys rarely 
 do anything to cover themselves from gunfire. When you alert their presence, you can just walk 
 around a corner and expect them to run right out in front of you. Because of this, it makes the 
 game slightly easier. Occasionally they will throw grenades at you, but it has a red glowing light 
 and emits a clicking sound, so they are well visible and you will know when they are going to combust. 
 They don't even have that big of a blast radius, making them pretty ineffective. The game doesn't 
 really increase in difficulty till you start fighting the larger sized enemies.
  
  A huge difference between the two games is that you'll find much more character development here. 
 You will get to know Barney, Dr. Kleiner and Eli a lot better than you did at Black Mesa. You'll 
 even have allies who will help you through sticky situations at some point. This isn't exactly 
 like the predecessor where you can select guys to follow you. Here, they'll just tag along when 
 you pass them, and they'll provide some useful cover fire, as well as stock you with extra ammo 
 when you get low. This will give you the opportunity to get involved in some fun firefights. Though 
 it will get slightly annoying when you travel through narrow hallways with these guys as they can 
 get in your way, but still gives depth to the game showing that you aren't alone in this battle.
 
  
  Half-Life 2 does include a multiplayer component, and it is called Counter-Strike: Source. Basically 
 for those who are familiar with the original Counter-Strike, it was once a mod for Half-Life 1 
 that reached a high level of popularity, and was produced into a retail version where you could 
 buy Counter-Strike itself in stores. The game consists of two teams, terrorists and counter-terrorists. 
 Depending on the map you play, there will be a certain objective that one of the teams will have 
 to accomplish to win the round. Whether it be the plant-the-bomb scenario where the terrorists 
 have to reach a bomb site and plant a bomb on it, or the rescue-the-hostages scenario where the 
 counter-terrorists have to penetrate where the terrorists are holding the hostages and capture 
 them.
  
  Counter-Strike: Source is pretty much a remake for the new engine. Obviously the architectural 
 and graphical effects are greatly improved here, featuring a new set of higher poly character and 
 weapon models. There are new visual effects like the smoke that sprays from the walls when you 
 shoot them, and the splashing of the water when others run through it. Valve also remade a lot 
 of the maps from the original Counter-Strike, which are a lot more realistic with architectural 
 advancements. The physics engine is also carried over, so it's a lot of fun to shoot at barrels 
 and objects scattered throughout the maps, but it's also a little strange because you can't jump 
 on top of the physics objects like in Half-Life 2. You kind of fall through them. None the less, 
 this remake of Counter-Strike can be a lot of fun, and makes a good addition to the package.
  
  On top of all this, with Half-Life's popularity and Valve's support for the modding community, 
 I can guarantee that the replay will go up when the modders start producing their own games on 
 the engine. In total, Half-Life 2 goes into a lot of depth in terms of detail and gameplay but 
 not so much in story. No matter, it's still a highly entertaining game regardless. If you remotely 
 consider yourself a first person shooter or a Half-Life fan, then you should already be installing 
 this on your computer. The graphical, gameplay and sound elements are all extremely well done, 
 creating a world you can immerse yourself into, so long as the load checkpoints don't bother you 
 too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 8, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  HALF - LIFE 2 its an amazing shooter that everyone have to get, Its revolutionary, it has extemely 
 good graphics ( the best in 2004) , and great sound (im talking everthing, include the musics, dialogues 
 and else)
  
  It has some style of Halo with Counter-Strike.... mmmmmm... and a bit of Time-Splitters, well the 
 last 2 i think were copied of this one, LOL.
  
  Well talking about the gameplay, you just have to play it, it's simply a great shooter, it has 
 action-horror parts that gives to the game a good experience.
  
  Very well done in every aspects, Recommended for everyone who likes shooters with some horror and 
 great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 8, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks because well its perfect the graphics are very good the difficulty is w/e u want 
 the zombies are perfectly designed and also the graphics are very good for 2004 . the multiplayer 
 is not fun though. the level designs are so good it tricks u and makes u think a lot and it can 
 also be very very suprising and suspenseful. so overall this game rocks iif u dont have it get 
 it . . . . . . . . .. . . to be continued (i hope they make episode 2) i heard theyre comin out 
 with a lot of half life games put together for consoles now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james457
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AMAZING. I have been playing PC games for a long time and this is one of the best. 
 The gravity gun is awesome. It is so much fun throwing explosive barrels, or anything else for 
 that matter, at a horde of zombies. The zombies are pretty creepy because you can't hear them and 
 if they are in the dark, you can't see them. Then you are being attacked by a zombie from behind 
 you had no clue it was coming. This made the Ravenholm level annoying and scary. I almost didn't 
 get this game because I played the demo and the levels it had were the first one and the Ravenholm 
 level. I thought the game was all killing zombies, but I found out otherwise and got the game. 
 I am so glad I did. This game has amazing graphics, great physics and is really fun to play. The 
 puzzles ranged from too easy to headscatchers and were mostly fun. The storyline is ok. It is mostly 
 at the end though. It has good sound effects and a good soundtrack. The multiplayer is great. If 
 you are going to get this game, and you should, get it from steam because it is cheaper, you get 
 a load of games, including episode one, which is just as great as this game, and you download it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 continues the story from Half Life. Gordon Freeman, the guy with who you'll play, gets 
 back in City 17. After getting in trouble because of his best friends ,the combine soldiers, he is 
 rescued by Alyx Vance, a very nice girl. Something goes wrong &amp; the Citadel is in full alert. Why? The 
 only thing you know is that you have to get out. This game has awesome graphics. The exteriors are 
 very good, but not as good as in FarCry. A hell lot of effects, high quality textures &amp; of course 
 the Source engine is the best optimized engine, it runs on high details &amp; resolution even on 
 a weak PC. But the interiors are trully the best realised in any game. The sound is awesome as well. Very 
 good sound effects, a well-placed soundtrack &amp; very good voice acting, plus the sounds that will 
 scare you &amp; create an apocalyptic atmosphere in City 17 are trully great. As gameplay, Half 
 Life 2 stands better than FarCry. In FarCry, the pathfinding was a little tricky &amp; it got a little 
 boring. Well, in Half Life 2, you start as a newcomer: no weapons, no armor, no bullets. But you'll soon 
 get your crowbar, after that a pistol, submachine gun, gravity gun, grenades, etc. The crowbar is ideal 
 for braking things (boxes, planks, etc) , and the other weapons are for enamies. There are a lot of enamies, from 
 the combine soldiers &amp; drones to little creature that couple with the heads of people, zombies, flying 
 spinning sharp wheels, etc. But the gameplay is never boring. Shoot some enamies, flood a place to 
 swim trough a door, trigger alarms to open gates, escape with a hovercreaft or just save some innocents. Half 
 Life 2 also has some of the best puzzles I saw in a game. For example, to lower a ramp for jumping 
 with the hovercraft from it, you'll have to find four barrels &amp; place them, underwater, right 
 under the ramp to lower one end of it. The phisic engine is also great, but not as great as the one 
 in Painkiller-Heaven's Got a Hitman. Everything breaks, flies, falls, etc. But there has to be a weak 
 part in Half Life 2: the storyline. It is not too interesting, there are almost no cutscenes &amp; 
 the story is not continued at all untill the end. Fortunatelly, the weak story does not ruin the 
 whole game. Half Life 2 is simply one of the best FPS-s ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedric169
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The 1st was a really masterpiece I still remenber the 1st time i played it... it was the better 
 game i played until i played the 2nd...
  
  Well this game just keep getting better, first of all the graphics are great, the story is a little 
 lame but is still good... the action is the main thing here if u really like or don't like FPS u 
 should buy this game no matter what...
  
  The mp is really fun also i enjoy it... and the counter strike: source is really gr8 also they make 
 cs just greater...
  
  I think that u can't loose your money on this game...
  
  Cedric169... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a revolutionary FPS. Why? Is it 'cause it has a physics engine? Is it because it 
 looks REAL nice? Is it that this game has GORDON FREEMAN in it? Or is it the fact that you can 
 use your ENVIRONMENT to kill your enemies?
  
  Good news for you, 'cause this take all that and merges it into one kick-ass game.
  
  Gameplay: 
 9/10
  Linear at times, but just plain fun. Just watch those zombies!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  It's Half-Life 2! It looks real nice! The water, the guns, the characters, those 
 guys with guns shooting at you over there...
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Everything sounds nice! What more can I say?
  
  Value: 10/10
  Buy it! It's so cheap now!
 
  
  In the end, I have only one thing to say: BUY THIS GAME NOW! IT WILL BE THE BEST INVESTMENT YOU 
 WILL EVER MAKE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonytehtiger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I've never played Half Life 1, so I don't know how innovative this game is compared to it. I do 
 know that I thoroughly enjoyed Half Life 2.
  
  Gameplay: Very Linear. Some things seem too coincidental, such as an air vent placed right there 
 for you to go around an obstacle, or a bunch of exploding barrels surrounding a group of enemies. 
 The AI is average. I don't know if the game is designed poorly for the AI to behave well or if 
 it just sucks, but too much of the AI is completely scripted. Unscripted AI behavior is underwhelming. 
 The variety of enemies is very nice, and the game design is well done. The gravity gun doesn't 
 come off as a gimmick and is surprisingly well blended into the game. The puzzles don't come off 
 as annoying, though again some may seem a bit coincidental. A lot of the characters have great 
 character and the main characters have a lot of personality poured into them. As far as linear 
 games go, this is THE BEST LINEAR GAME EVER. At least for now...
  
  Graphics: Top notch. The characters and faces are especially well done.
  
  Sound: Extremely 
 good voice acting and music. Overall sounds are excellent. The only downside happens to be weapons. 
 The pistol and shotgun sound terrible. The machine gun sounds pretty crappy as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFVIIROCKS
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first game I was stunned, I thought it was pretty much awesome. The length of 
 the game was superb. The action was awesome. The graphics.. good for its time but doesn't make it 
 any less fun. Then quite a few years later we received wonderful news from Valve talking about 
 a release of a sequel. I didn't really pay attention at the time, plus i didn't even have a computer 
 capable of handling this game. So i didn't bother. But then I got a new computer sometime ago and 
 I went straight out and bought Half Life 2. And let me tell you, from the 1st second i started 
 that game I was blown out of my freaking mind! Half Life 2 had so much too offer for gamers of 
 all sorts. Game Play: Fun, fast paced, amazing, hard sometimes, but it was over all a very well 
 put together game. The length was also long. about the same as the 1st game, or a little more, 
 I don't mean time wise, but the actual length of the whole game from point A to point B was huge, 
 its just easy it what makes it short in time.
  
  Sound: The Voice acting on this game is unbelievable. It was so well done. The voices actually 
 sound like they have character to them instead of just words spilling out of the person like the 
 voice actor was paid crap. Plus all the weapons sound pretty real. Graphics: PHENOMENAL. The mouths 
 actually look like they match with the words. The faces have actual expressions that look awesome. 
 Everything just flows really nice, but the physics of this game rock so hard! You can interact 
 with everything, and the gravity gun pushes this game to the limit. I don't how valve did it, but 
 they did. If you even found halo entertaining a tid bit or you like FPS a lot. Half Life 2 is a 
 game that is a must buy, don't be lame and borrow it from a friend, its a must have people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, tacky tagline. But this is my level of craze when I got my hands on this game. Impressive production 
 values including level design, graphics, sound design, physics...! Considered revolutionary for 
 a 2004 game and when FPS is a genre that's the most challenging to produce but the most rewarding 
 in the gaming industry. Half-life 2 sets the new benchmark that time.
  
  A lot of good things can be mentioned about this game, but the most exciting one would be the Havoc 
 physics including ragdoll, real weight accuracy of objects, and the interaction with all these 
 via your actions as Gordon Freeman. The line between real world and game world is muddled here 
 as I'm totally immersed in the level of detail as I navigated my way through virtual reality. The 
 gravity gun will explain itself.
  
  From battling human-head-sized headcrabs to skyscraper-tall striders, the goosebumping tension 
 and grand display of action sequences moved me. Texture mapping of human faces are jaw-dropping. 
 Half-life 2 could be the future engine for Second Life... bye-bye real life. I didn't say much 
 in-depth about the game cos I don't want to spoil your own experience with it.
  
  Before Crysis comes out, Half-life 2 would be the most beautiful FPS today.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jadewizard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  I admit, i thought this game was overrated before. before being before i had ever played it, but 
 now that i have it, i have to say: This game has to be the most fun game ive played on the computer 
 since The Movies came out. Sure, this game is old, but man does it look, sound and play good. I 
 seriousy regret not buying this earlier. Of course I couldn't because I didn't have a good enough 
 computer, but now I do and oh my god. this game is really fun to play and look at. One last thing 
 about the game: Ragdoll Physics FTW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  The atmosphere is brilliant right from the word go as you step off the train into a believable, 
 dystopic metropolis. The dishevelled citizens mutter fearfully as you pass. You are unarmed, and 
 vunerable to the electric baton-wielding guards. A glimpse of a fifty-foot walker robot is nod 
 to the scale of what is to come... And so the action begins, combining the best elements of tactical 
 FPS gunfighting (Nova Prospekt) , adventure (the buggy ride up the coast) and horror (Ravenholm) . 
 There are no levels as such - each section of the story blends seamlessly (well, via a loading 
 screen to help you catch your breath) into the next, creating a feeling of real progress. At one 
 point, your character, the scientist Gordon Freeman (who spends most of his time fighting instead 
 of reaseaching) , must traverse the support girders of an enormous railway bridge.
  
  Beautiful, exciting and brilliantly designed. Half Life 2 is definately a contender for the best 
 game ever made!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d4588
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Good game however some parts of the game almost seem like a platform type game. Graphics are good 
 although I really think steam hurts the dial-up user. When I initially purchased the game I had 
 to cut back on bills and had dial-up connectivity only. This prevented me from inserting the game 
 and enjoying as I had to download stupid steam updates. Now that, I have a decent connection I 
 may just have to reinstall this game and check out the mod community. This (mods) is one of the 
 reasons I'll never survive off of a console only and half life set the standard back in the day 
 and I'm sure HL2 will surely follow suit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chessy_Nachos
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Like i have said in the former half life 2 is one of the most immersive game i have ever played. 
 The Graphics are amazing and just totally blow you out of the water. Even better is that its story 
 is so engaging and appauling making you feel like you accually do make a differnce and that is 
 worth going though all that gordan in his eys goes thought just to see the amazing end just to 
 have it be a sequel to half life 2 episode 1. The gameplay factor is what really get you here in 
 the begging you are thrown with a bunch of puzzels that make sense and you solve thought them and 
 when it is getting near the end there is soo much action just like my friend said too Much action 
 I still get goose bumps everytime i play it and then my friend kicks me off his comp and then starts 
 playing it himself lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played it then i suggest you should because your missing one of the best gaming 
 experiences ever.
  
  This game takes place just after the first, the story is compelling, the gameplay is crazy and 
 the physics are almost more real the reality itself. The game itself is a masterpiece, the digital 
 actors/actresses, the designs, and the gameplay and its events will drive you to want to play even 
 more.
  
  The commands and movements themselves are pretty standard, but the added feature of drivable vehicles 
 makes gameplay more intense. The time it takes to play is great, but the rewards and enjoyment 
 makes it worth the while.
  
  ***Just a short mention on online play
  
  The online play itself is great and the teamplay can drive you to becoming fully devoted. Also 
 the mods and their servers are worth their weight in gold aswell.
  
  Buy this game if you don't have it, will you still can; it took me a long time to find mine and 
 I just got it not too long ago.
  
  Good luck and happy fragging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Probably the most hyped game ever was the sequel to the acclaimed best PC game of all time . For 
 those 6 years that they waited, people surely were expecting something far beyond just good. People 
 were expecting perfect. While no game can ever be perfect , I would say Half-Life 2 comes closer 
 to it than any other game before.
  
  The Source engine is at the top of its game. It's not quite as flashy as the Doom 3 engine, but 
 it doesn't need to be. Everything looks breath-taking and the physics are simply unreal. Everything 
 looks, moves and breaks exactly as it would in real life, and it's that same level of realism pulls 
 you into the game's world and truly makes you feel like you're a part of it. Doom 3 does look better, 
 I have to be honest, but it just looks.... fake. Source is much more acceptable to the eye. That's 
 important because the center of attention In Half-Life 2 is the content, not the graphics.
  
  The thing I like about gameplay is the huge variety. During the course of Half-Life 2, you 
 will be riding speedboats through sewer canals with a military chopper on your tail, you'll be 
 riding a jeep across the shores, you'll be commanding armies of alien ant lions into battle, you'll 
 be trapped in a gloomy, alien-infested town at the dead of night, fighting for survival, you will 
 be caught in the middle of a huge battle between Xen aliens and the Combine in a maximum security 
 prison and towards the end you get to become an unstoppable tank armed with what seems like the 
 most devastating weapon ever conceived in any FPS. You will never, EVER get bored because the gameplay 
 evolves as you progress.
  
  Half-Life 2 has inherited one bad trait that it's predecessor had, and that's a huge anti-climax. 
 A perfect game has a perfect ending, but in this case, I'll have to make an exception. Way to go 
 Valve. *thumbs up* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkDemyze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Extremely immersing game play; Great character development; excellent voice acting; amazing 
 scenery.
  
  The Bad: Recycled scenes and characters still take away from the experience; rather friendly A. I. 
 in many situations; Why is Mr. Freeman still mute?
  -------------------------------------------------------------
  
  From the very beginning to 
 the very end, you see everything through the eyes of one man: Gordon Freeman. The approach is not 
 so different than the first installment, but it is still just as effective. This lends its hand 
 to yet another incredibly immersing shooter experience. Unfortunately, as immersed as you might 
 be, the game doesn't have a strong story to back up all the deep interactions. And while the lack 
 of a voice from Mr. Freeman may not make the game feel less clever, it does limit the story from 
 blossoming into something more than it is. The story picks up some unknown amount of time after 
 the first game. But it is safe to assume it has been quite a few years for our protagonist Mr. 
 Freeman. Waking up to the face of the mysterious G-Man from the first Half-Life, you are vaguely 
 debriefed. You somehow end up on a train that seems to transporting you and a few other passengers 
 to City 17. This is a City that seems to be beaten down by the corporate government where the citizens 
 have no given rights or liberties. Control is driven by fear and law enforcement is a way of life. 
 Everything is locked down. This feeling is honed by the vibes given off from the people you come 
 in contact with on the streets and broken down complexes.
  
  Things start out slow as you make your way through the city streets. But it gets more interesting 
 when you meet up with someone who apparently is an old friend, Barnie. Now this wouldn't be Half-Life 
 without the "something goes wrong, now do something about it" setup. If you happen to be a fan 
 of this sort of thing, then you're in luck because that is exactly how this game gets going. After 
 meeting a female character by the name of Alex you attempt to make a "jump" from one laboratory 
 to another for further debriefing. When things go wry, you are forced to hoof it. For some unbeknown 
 reason the officers of City 17 are directed to capturing you as priority one. From there you are 
 thrown into a non-stop War to liberate the inhabitants of City 17.
  
  There are many details shrouded in mystery though as you play through the game. Fortunately, the 
 environment isn't. Almost anything you see around you is interactive. Don't like the position of 
 that TV? Move it. Don't like the position of the dresser the TV was sitting on? Move it. Is the 
 TV just plain annoying? Rip the power cord out of the wall and shut it up then! This game truly 
 raises the bar in terms of interactivity. It also raises the bar for character development. Every 
 NPC you see walking, sitting, or flying around seems as though they have some purpose in the world 
 and they are aware of what is going on around them.
  
  Being a shooter, there is more to be found than just life-like NPCs and movable chairs. The gun 
 play is fairly standard with many weapons that we have all come to know and love: pistol, shotgun, 
 assault rifle, grenades, laser guided missile, etc. Many of which featuring a secondary fire option. 
 But in addition to the standard issue you receive a weapon called the  
 better known as "The Gravity Gun." This weapon gives you the ability to lift almost any object 
 and turn it into a projectile weapon. This adds a level of strategy to the game that, until now, 
 has never been seen before. When using the gravity gun, it is important to note the stellar physics 
 presented in the game. Large bulky objects feel heavier and harder to move. While small objects 
 can be picked up and launched with ease.
  
  In Half-Life 2, there is a decent assortment of enemies and what would Half-Life be without the 
 head crab? This time you take on a few variations including poisonous, and adult head crabs. You 
 will also be spending time fighting against the law officers of City 17. Even though many of the 
 officers are smart enough to track you down if you run, defend themselves against a turret or head 
 crab, they still seem to be a bit too friendly about taking cover. Most times you will find they 
 just stand in one spot and let you fill them with lead. Given the high interaction level A. I., 
 you would expect the enemies to be a bit less predictable. Then at some point, a group joins your 
 fighting cause. Unfortunately, many times your teammates will run right out into the line of fire; 
 even if you tell them to hold position. More often than not they end up being not useful at all.
 
  
  That aside, the graphics are another area where this game really shows its colors. The step up 
 from the first game is amazing and will put your geometric shaders to work. The detail in each 
 character model shows off how much work Valve has put into updating its graphics engine to the 
 most cutting edge technology. You can even tell how many people feel just by looking at their face 
 thanks to the expressions they give you. This only helps the game feel that much more realistic.
 
  
  The sound in this game is very rich and takes the experience even farther. All the dialogs are 
 voice acted with the highest quality and it gives you the impression the people are really talking 
 directly to you. All sounds are dynamic meaning as you back away from the source, the volume decreases. 
 Footsteps, head crab shrieks, and zombie moans all alert you to the enemies' location making sounds 
 tactically useful as well. On the other hand, some of the weapon noises could have been tweaked 
 a bit to make them feel a little more authentic.
  
  Half-Life 2 is absolutely a must play if you have a PC with hardware that is able to run it. While 
 the plot may not exactly be spot on, the overall effect the game delivers is definitely worth it. 
 This game features some of the most advanced and unique uses of physics technology and it's integrated 
 into the experience rather well. Above all, the gravity gun is perhaps the coolest and most interesting 
 weapons put into a game. Hopefully the next chapter in Gordon's life will spend less time fleshing 
 out the characters you interact with, and more time on building the man behind the gun. It isn't 
 necessary to see Gordon from a third-person view or in a cut scene; however, it would be nice to 
 at least have a voice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- There are very little flaws and glitches and everything is very precise. The puzzles 
 are great for an FPS and can take some time to figure out. There are many ways to kill enemies 
 and each different way is just plain awesome whether you cut them in half, or blow them up, or 
 smash them with something huge. The gunfights are terrific as you fight alongside fellow humans 
 in the world's darkest hours, drive your car/boat while shooting up everything that moves, and 
 blasting down gunboats with your awesome rocket launcher. The farther into the game you go, the 
 more intense it gets; especially when Striders become a common enemy and you're in the middle of 
 a battle with rockets exploding in every direction. All of this with no slow-downs. I agree when 
 people say gameplay is the most important thing in gaming, because Half-Life 2 sure as hell delivers 
 in this category.
  
  Graphics- Stunning is the best word for it, especially in high-detail. In 2004 it was arguably 
 the most beautiful game ever created. Whether you're in the marvelous-looking City-17, or the dark 
 Ravenholm, the artistic designs are equal if not better than anything out there. The textures are 
 great with few jaggies and the character models are some of the best I've seen. The shading and 
 lighting looks wonderful in every area, and this all contributes strongly to the gameplay. Story- 
 While the story in Half-Life 2 wasn't told very well, the whole atmosphere was just spectacular. 
 With humanity defeated and hope lost, this game gives the strongest feeling of despair among anything 
 I've played. The story is strong enough to keep anyone interested, but it's the main theme of all 
 hope is lost that will keep you going.
  
  Difficulty- Really nothing to get used to here if you've already played a PC FPS. Shouldn't be 
 any problems to anyone who hasn't. The campaign is very easy, even the toughest difficulty can 
 be beaten with some practice, especially when you already know all the puzzles.
  
  Mulitplayer- If you got Deathmatch, then you can play online. Like mentioned above, there are many 
 great ways to kill people and it isn't to difficult. It's not the best online I've ever played, 
 mostly because the overall online experience is somewhat dull, but it still contributes to the 
 already great game.
  
  Sound/Music- The sound effects are all you would expect from an FPS. Gun sounds don't get much 
 better (including the Strider bullet sounds) , and neither does the sound the enemy makes when they 
 die. The voice acting it pretty good, and matches each character very well. The music themes aren't 
 the very best, but still fairly pleasant to listen to. Sometimes it can get repetitive, but nowhere 
 near annoying.
  
  Replay Value- It's definitely fun enough to play through a second time. You might even want to 
 play through again to understand the story better. The online will keep you coming back for a long 
 time as well. Overall- This game easily stands tall with the best FPS games of all time. I actually 
 liked it better than the first, and that's saying something. There are very few FPS... no... there 
 are very few games period that are this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: explicthangnail
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  The good: Intense fire fights, great graphics, Awsome characters, Gordon is so amazing he isn't 
 even classified as a character he's a hero, Weapons are great, Sound is above excellent, Spawned 
 some amazing mods, Never frustrating, Fun game play, It's a Half life game.
  
  The bad: mmm... the water is not realistic enough?
  
  And the UGLY: ...
  
  
 
  
  1998, Half life makes its debut. Amazing people everywhere the game that revolutionized the FPS 
 genre was a hit. And that meant it managed to spawn a sequel. Here comes Half life 2. One of the 
 greatest games of all time...
  
  What am I gonna say? Half life 2 is an amazing game. The graphics are good, sound is great, game 
 play is overwhelming ( In a good way ) . There is nothing more satisfying than hearing a group of 
 Combine yelling in horror while you're blowing them all to hell, AWSOME. All the characters in 
 Half life 2 are amazing. They all have personality and style, except for Gordon. Which makes you 
 feel like you are the mute scientist running around causing havoc. Plus the voice acting is just 
 great too and can't be missed. The characters are just that good. And the mods that came from this 
 game, are just amazing. Garry's Mod has just been made a commercial game. It started out as a mod 
 for Half life 2.
  
  Half life 2's multi player is Half life 2: Death match. It's not amazing but it's decent enough.
 
  
  Plus the weapons are just good, every weapon just feels right.
  
  Overall Half life 2 is one of the pinnacles of PC gaming and a title that can't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wergfwefwef
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this : THIS GAME ROCKS!! From beginning to end of the single player campaign, and 
 from experience from the first half life, I had a blast playing HL2. It is truly remarkable and 
 revolutionary. A whole new engine for the game called the source engine was developed, leading 
 to a stunning visual of the environment and characters. You can even look into a persons eye and 
 see the gleam, or see the sun reflecting off water. Not only is the source engine awesome, but 
 the new weapons. The Gravity gun was introduced which allows you to pick up nearly any object, 
 and shoot it like a bullet at enemies. Also, the perophod, which is used to control creatures called 
 ant loins to attack enemy soldiers. Another weapon is the RPG which you launch, then move the mouse 
 to whereever you want and the rocket will follow. There are many other cool weapons obtainable 
 such as the combine pulse rifle and the crossbow. The enemies you use the previous weapons stated 
 against are also a benificial factor in the game. youll find youself fighting typical combine soldiers, 
 to 30 foot tall spider looking aliens called Striders. The game is very intense at times, such 
 as the ravenholm chapter. Youll find yourself on the edge of your seat moving with caution then 
 suddenly jumping as a crab creature lurches at you. The online play is very addictive and fun as 
 well. Its normal death match, and super fast paced. Many servers hold up to 25+ ppl, in large arena 
 style maps which TONS of objects ( more fun with the gravity gun) . Overall, if you love first person 
 shooters, or even if you dont favor them, Half Life 2 should definitly be checked out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightWolf38
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun to play and is quite similar to watching a movie at times. Although you 
 never see your character (freeman) or hear him talk, the other parts of the game like the graphical 
 quality and sound effects, more than make up for that. It is very immersive, even if the plotline 
 can sometimes be confusing. The original Half-Life had a bland, and rather boring storyline to 
 it, so that really doesn't add much to it's more recent counterpart. The plot holes caused by this 
 can make for some initial confusion, but the game fills the holes later in the game by referring 
 to past events from the first half life. The multi-player portion of this game is where it really 
 shines. you can go head-to-head against other players in HL2 Deathmatch, or you can download Garry's 
 mod off of steam. Gmod is basically a sandbox mod for HL2 that can consume hours apon hours of 
 time, it's a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaygm6
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of 
 the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe 
 the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of 
 the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe 
 the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of 
 the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe 
 the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of 
 the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe 
 the best game of the world and universe the best game of the world and universe the best game of 
 the world and universe the best game of the world and universe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 had to be 1one of most hyped &amp; awaited games of all time ... Valve has proven that 
 they are true masters in every way posible gameplay , graphics , story ... the first time you enter 
 the game you will feel that you are part of the world the Source 2 engine is still the greatest 
 &amp; it can evan compete with next gen engines .. the voices &amp; the face animations makes you 
 think that you are talking with real ppl , the physics engine is the best ut there practicly you 
 cna interact with everything ... the dialogs are very nice made &amp; the characters around you 
 feel alive .. the atmosphere is just great in way it makes you feel unsafe with a ba taste in your 
 maouth because thats a posiblie future for us :D but without the aliens ... hope it will never 
 happend .. the gravity gun brings the gameplay much hyher ... its practcly amazing how you can 
 fight your animeis with their own graned , rocks , creates &amp; other stuff ... the A. I. of the 
 combines isn't that well made they try to flanc you but its hard for them because thei quite dum 
 but don't worry when it comes to A. I. you better watch out for the strider or gunships .. when you 
 are facing them the real A. I. takes place making it a real chalenge . Enjoy the game it is the 
 best in the world you will never forget !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death31212
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  After playing original half life for almost forever, i desided to pick up half life 2 and give 
 it a try, and i was blow away! The single player campainge was exellent! It feels so much differnt 
 from half life one, at first the theme is similar to any fps, run shoot kill, but it dose add a 
 few twists, like the gravity gun which u can use to fling stuff at ur eniemies, and even has some 
 vechile stages, but as the game progesses from running around all underground, to a fulll out war 
 in the streets, u run around gathering team members that will help u fight. The story line is still 
 mysterious just like in original half life, u dont know exactly why ur doing wut u are, but u know 
 there is a reason, and its kinda fun just to try and figure that reason out. Every thing runs fairly 
 smoothly in the game, and i never found my self stuck in any places. Dispite its lack of included 
 multiplayer*, hl2 is still a gr8 game, that will eat upp tons of ur free time. Once u get tried 
 of regular hl2 there is always a wide varity of mods to download and play.
  
  *u can buy cs: s and hl2: dm included w/ hl2 for an added price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ob1lego
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games where even me, would put FEAR, BF2142, and other addictive games on 
 hold to take a look at. it's scary, with zombies, combine, gmen, and other followups like CSS, 
 DDS, HL2Deathmatch, Code blue, HLS, and tons other but one thing i like the most is gmod. the ultimate 
 sandbox game with no limits to what u can do. but gameplay is also the best thing because of how 
 many enemys, dark tunnels, and interesting things to do with the gravity gun, plus it has all those 
 sequals HL episode one, HL episode two. plus there's the fact that u can hook up your wiimote to 
 the comp. and play it with the freakin wii controller with even better gameplay there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  most of the time you are just walking around admiring the detail in some areas not knowing what 
 you are doing or where you're going, and jumping out of you're seat when a head crab jumps at you 
 outta nowhere. its only at the end of the game in the city when u start to know whats going on. 
 lots of interesting puzzles but usually quite easy to figure out.
  soma parts of the game can be pretty hard like fighting the strider's but thats what i found most 
 fun and is well worth playin even if the story is a little confusing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbinoGoose
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a great game but it can get old and repetative. First of all the weapons are cool, 
 The best one's are the Zero Point Energy Feild Divise (A. K. A. the grav gun) , The pulse rifle, and 
 the revolver but the others are basic. The stroyline is great the G-man, Dr. Kleiner, Eli, Barney, 
 and Dr. Breen and they all play crutial plots to the storyline. Graphics are good. Level design is 
 great especialy Raven Holm. The AI is great the combine work together to attack you and the zombies 
 are relentles. Over all it is a good game but it dose get old the mods are better then Half life 
 2 ps. Play Half-Life 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJones49
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Being a diehard MOH, Far Cry, and Wolfenstein fan, I did not think that game would exist that could 
 compete with these three. I enjoyed Half Life but the graphics were not the best and the game did 
 have a stability issue here and there. On top of that, it was hard to follow the story. Half Life 
 2 changed my opinion greatly. Half Life 2's grahpics are superb, the AI great, the story line and 
 plot easy to follow and it has plenty of mystery and mystique. HL 2 also starts to tie in the story 
 from HL 1 which helps make more sense of everything. (side note: HL 2 Episode 1 does an even better 
 job tying everything together) . I do not think that any player's heart would not skip a beat when 
 fighting through Ravenholm, Nova Prospect, or the bridge scene. I give it a 9.7! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forever_blank
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is without a doubt one of the best first person shooters out there and personally one 
 of my favourites. Its starts off apparently ten years after the Black Mesa incident. Things in 
 the world are not good. It turns the alien race you encountered in the previous game, apart from 
 the Vortigons who turn out to be good, have enslaved the Earth. Ironically with the help of the 
 Adminstrator of the Black Mesa institute *cough* collaboration *cough*.
  
  Familiar faces appear and there are some new ones as well, but it will take you a pretty long time 
 to see them all, as the game is well worth its value offering easily more than 25 hours of gameplay. 
 Graphically the game S#its all over the original. Its looks GREAT! Fantastic, it just looks gorgeous 
 and the physics really make it that much more fun. If consoles would employ physics more often, 
 they would be just that much more enjoyable.
  
  It is powered by HAVOC and runs so well. You shoot a soldier on top of a building and he will fall 
 with a *thud*, you shoot a soldier in front of the wall and blood will splatter behind him. You 
 shoot a guided missle at a combine ship and it will blow up, with a tremendous force.
  
  You will see a few familar creatures, but thanks to the improvment upon graphics, you will some 
 truly terrifying creatures. No joke, for example walking around an abandoned town with moonlight 
 lighting up the city, with a crazy reverun helping you and Screamers running up the wall and then 
 jumping at you, screaming will honestly make you frightened.
  
  HAVOC isn't perfect though, one particular vehicle scene had me very frustrated and annoyed as 
 it just would keep tipping over. Apart from this, sound is great. Bullets drop to the ground and 
 you here them, AI is spectacular, hiding behind poles, picking up guns (allys) .
  
  Overall Half Life 2 is just a great game, which should keep even the most uniterested FPS haters, 
 interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightstriker_Qc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Aside from the ever problematic Steam system, once you went over the weird validation steps, you 
 enter in what I find the best single player FPS of all time.
  
  Every other FPS of the next gen techonology has numerous flaw that you won't find in HL2. While 
 every new FPS coming out now use Normal Mapping and such, only HL2 manage to use it correctly. 
 Remember how everything in DOOM3 look like metal or plastic? Well, check out Resistance of Men 
 on PS3... The same problem happen once again. So far, only HL2 manage to make sand look like sand 
 and avoid have wood look like plastic.
  
  But the visual is one thing. While not being totally innovative on the shot them up type of game, 
 HL2 is in my opinion the first real FPS to use physic as a gameplay ingredient. Sadly, they just 
 didn't use it enough. But the last level of the game worth the game on itself as you grab your 
 grav gun and make the combines dance!
  
  As for the story? Like the first Half-Life, the story is a wicked crazy thing that even after passing 
 the game 2-3 times, you're not sure to understand everything. And even then, so many thing remain 
 hidden in this complexe story. Of course, the perfect dumbass can pass the game without noticing 
 any story at all. But the amazing thing is, someone who stop and take care to listen to every and 
 read between lines can see so much more. Who is really this agent with a suitcase? Aside from the 
 really nice gameplay, tremendous physic and stunning visual, this game also show one thing... When 
 the developpers take their time, it worths it.
  
  Yes, even today, a year after this game came out, it's in my opinion, still the best visually speaking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Halflife 2 had some big Shoes to fill .but not only did it fill them .it showed us he had way bigger 
 feet than the shoe can fit. This game is just Halflife with way better Visuals and awsome presentation. 
 The Visuals in this game really immerse you in the game. It's not the looks , but the movment of 
 the Enemys you fight and how when they get hit with Bullets or Rockets. it actually looks like 
 they did. the Physics in this game are just amazing. the game doesn't look as good as some other 
 titles (Anymore) , but no other titles have these physics.
  Imagine shooting a guys kneecap and he doesn't fall but his leg break and he falls in an angle 
 .
  When you in a room and your shooting crazy and cups and wood are flying everywhere it's really 
 makes you feel like your there. i actually ducked one tme i shot a fuel barrel and it went over 
 my head.
  
  Half life has always had a good Multiplayer because of mods and here no exception with the game 
 coming with Counter Strike Source. Day of deafeat Source is in a package you can get and recomended.
 
  
  If you don't have HL2 and thinking wich male machismo FPS i'm getting then your looking at the 
 wrong game. this is half life he's just scientist having a bad day :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dseinen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Loved this game very much. The new gravity gun (and the things you can do with it) is especially 
 nice. Graphics are amazing! The Source engine makes for very realistic visuals and dynamics. The 
 story is very compelling. The cliffhanger at the end makes you wanting for more. I'll get episode 
 1 very soon now! The only thing I didn't like was the audio stutter bug. I hope that Valve will 
 patch this right in the future. Otherwise, this has got to be the best game yet! It's a perfect 
 follow-up for the original game and it's got enough new things to offer to set it apart from the 
 original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyshalle83
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I bought Half-Life 2 a couple of years ago, having never played the original, never been a part 
 of the hype, and not really knowing what I was getting into. I was looking more forward to DOOM 
 3 than I was this, and it wound up being more than a year before I finally got around to buying 
 this game.
  
  I was plagued by problems with Steam, as it was the glitchiest software I've ever dealt with (and 
 that's neither lie nor exaggeration) , and it pretty much prevented me from playing this game for 
 about three weeks after I originally bought it. Eventually, for no discernable reason, it randomly 
 let me on, and it took me a grand total of five minutes before I was hooked. It should be noted 
 that because of the problems with Steam, every time I logged off I wouldn't be able to get back 
 on for several more days or weeks, and because the gameplay was so spectacular, I wound up playing 
 for many more hours than I normally play games, ignoring my need for sleep, even ignoring my girlfriend! 
 Yes. It's that good.
  
  I put that the learning curve is under half an hour. This is because there really is no learning 
 curve, assuming you've had any experience with first person shooters before. If Half-Life 2 is 
 the first game you've ever played in your life, then it might take you a bit longer, but otherwise 
 you shouldn't have any troubles whatsoever getting into this.
  
  The reason for this is because Half-Life 2 has an amazing tutorial system, where they essentially 
 teach you how to do everything *while* you're playing the game. Aside from once, at the very beginning 
 of the game where a small window comes up that says Push E to pick up objects, you'll never once 
 be pulled out of the immersion, as most of your tutorials will come from other characters in the 
 game, or just through circumstances. Generally before you have to perform a specific task in stressful 
 situations like a combat situation, you'll first be given the opportunity to perform the task in 
 a controlled environment free from danger. The immersion of this game is unparallelled by any other 
 game. Not even the Call of Duty series matches the immersiveness of Half-Life 2. You're never stopped 
 from playing the game to view a cut-scene. Loading times are infrequent and short, and everything 
 happens from your perspective. There is one point in the game where time jumps ahead by about a 
 week or so, but this is because you're actually time traveling, not because there's a gap in the 
 story-telling. Ironically, this transfers all the way back to the original Half-Life story, where 
 because you're put into stasis at the end of that game, and you're only just coming out of stasis 
 at the beginning of this game, you could actually play through all of Half-Life 1, 2 and Episode 
 1 without there ever being a gap in either your or Gordon Freeman's perspective.
  
  There have been reviews that say that Half-Life 2's story is dissapointing. This couldn't be further 
 from the truth. The fact of the matter is, Half-Life 2 tells a story so convincing that some people 
 actually can't handle a narrative not being told in a traditional Hollywood 3-Act Narrative, full 
 of exposition. Real life doesn't play out in such a manner, and just like in real life, if you 
 want more of a story in Half-Life 2, you'll have to go looking for it. It's everywhere to be found, 
 on post-it notes or posters, graffiti on walls and through the idle conversations between NPC's, 
 to Eli's missing leg, the story is everywhere without it being spoonfed to you. This gives the 
 world a depth that makes you feel like this is really happening.
  
  That isn't to say that there aren't hollywood moments, or even that it doesn't have a good sense 
 of structure. This story builds itself up and up until the last couple hours of the game when it 
 climaxes, and the whole city you've spent so much time in begins to go through its own un-civil 
 war, and then the process begins again, rising up to truly epic levels. Make no mistake, within 
 the first five minutes of this game, you'll see how truly epic it is every step of the way.
  
  The official Gamespot review claims that the end is sort of anti-climactic, and that's somewhat 
 true. You inevitably wind up fighting a guy who is no real threat to you, has no experience with 
 combat whatsoever (not that that's stopped Gordon Freeman, but still) , and it's less of a fight 
 and more of a race to kill this guy before he gets away, but still. You battle your way to the 
 very top of the citadel, only to have it explode in your face with no hope of escape. I'd say that 
 despite not being an excellent boss fight, the game ends on a great note.
  
  This is the best First Person Shooter ever made. In fact, it's arguably the best game ever made, 
 period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airek49
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, seeing Half Life 2 get a perfect score might seem a bit over the edge. But, when 
 properly broken down by each category, you'll see that a perfect score is nothing less than deserving.
 
  
  Gameplay - With some of the best FPS action ever, gameplay is a sure 10. With a perfect blend of 
 fast action and an intriguing story, HL2 delivers as a must-play FPS.
  
  Graphics - As with all PC games, this is dependent on the system you own. The way I judge this 
 is visuals VS performance. How well can the game be ran on a mid-range computer, but still look 
 great? Half Life 2 is one of the best for this. On medium settings at 1280X1024 the game looks 
 near perfect. With that being said, the game on max settings, AA enabled and 1680X1050+, is possibly 
 the best to date.
  
  Sound - The right sound at the right time. Deep basses on explosions. Great ambient sound. Voice 
 acting is crisp and clear and very well done. Music really gets the blood pumping. You know when 
 something cool is about to happen when the awesome music starts up.
  
  Value - I'd say this is the strongest point. You can play through the game on medium setting, and 
 the game is fun enough to come back and play it again on hard. The biggest strong point of HL2 
 is the modding community. CS: S is possibly the most popular online shooter in history, and is run 
 off of the HL2 engine. Between CS: S, HL2DM, TFC: S and the many many other mods, the re-playability 
 of the game is endless.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I've played many, many FPS games in my gaming life, and none have brought me 
 into a story so quickly and so brightly as HL2. From the beginning I was sucked in, ready to see 
 what waited beyond every corner. Playing this game was truly a great feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldinatti
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  it is a so great game i love it so much! i play the multiplayer a lot and its a fun game it is a 
 14 level game. go to hint and cheats to get cheats. there is a lot of blood but it is so cool!!!!!! its 
 violent/action/bloody/ GUNY /funny/scary (only in chapter 6 ravenhome) /cool/and finaly (dangerous) ?????? you'll 
 find out what that means. you'll love this game In Half-Life 2, you once again assume the role of 
 Gordon Freeman, the theoretical physicist and dimension-hopping commando who saved the world from 
 an alien invasion at the end of Half-Life. Or did he? Half-Life 2 starts you off facing the infamous 
 G-Man, the mysterious blue-suited character from the first game. At the end of Half-Life, the G-Man 
 offered you a choice: work for him or die. Since there would be no sequel if you chose the latter, 
 Half-Life 2 assumes you chose the former, and you start the game in a train entering City 17 for 
 your introduction into this new world. City 17 is a run-down urban center that's the equivalent 
 of the Warsaw ghettos during World War II, but instead of Jews being rounded up to live in City 
 17, it's all the remnants of a defeated humanity. Half-Life 2 takes place an untold number of years 
 after the Black Mesa incident, but it's clear that much has changed. A mysterious enemy known as 
 the Combine has conquered the planet and installed a human puppet government to carry out its rule. 
 Black-clad security forces patrol the streets, while propaganda blares endlessly from omnipresent 
 video screens. If there's one thing that Valve does extremely well, it's capture a sense of atmosphere -- this 
 vision of a dystopian police state is chillingly effective. But you won't spend a lot of time soaking 
 in the scene before you're thrust into the struggle to defeat the Combine and free humanity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  I dunno every1 says this is great and it looks great and all but for some reason I can't seem to 
 keep on playing. I don't know y but I can't seem to be addicted to this game and no matter how 
 many times i die i can't keep on trying. If i die (which is a lot) i can't seem to find the spirit 
 to press continue (metaphor) . The graphics r good, the gunfights r good the sound is good I just 
 can't seem to go on. Maybe it is the lack of story at first as u have no idea what u r doing and 
 y. It is mysteriouse and all but it is lacking something I dunno it is probably just me I have 
 been hit on the head by blunt objects a few times............ but who knows. I recommend that u 
 buy this game though and c how far u can get through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokyou
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Everyone should buy this awesome FPS!!! The graphics are drop-dead gorgeous even on a low-end PC. Surprisingly 
 Half-Life 2 required specifications were very low considering the great graphics of the game. The 
 game puts you right into the action at the start. The zombies were freakingly scary and scenes 
 were good. The story was awesome. The weapons were great and my favourite is the gravity gun. It 
 was so much fun hurling anything i can get my gravity gun on at the Combine. In my opinion, this 
 is one of the best FPS in the world. I see no reason why somebody should not get it. Trust me, It 
 will not disappoint all of you. On the contrary, you might even get hooked onto it. A word to describe 
 this revolutionary FPS: Marvellous. I Spent all my nights on my computer playing this game... I 
 think i even Overloaded it... Lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: great Single player full of plot twists, great story, puzzles and the G man. best graphics 
 on PC and you don't need the super duper $25,000 PC to play it.
  
  THE BAD: UMM...... Not to much replay value i guess? -
  - Half-life was one of the best FPS in 
 the late 20th century and when I heard that a sequel was in store I was very happy. When the game 
 finally came out I went and bought a new PC to play it. I put it in and I was sucked into the world 
 of City 17. Immiagin the game as a Movie that you play and you get half-life 2. Not only is this 
 game great but it can only last so long right? Wrong after you finish the game you can get one 
 of the many mods which are games made with the HL2 engine. You can play anything from Goldeneye 
 007 to a racing game. Between the GREAT if not best PC game of all time and the HUGE mod base with 
 many many good mods that will allow you to enjoy this game for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gingerdivid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  After a lengthy 6 year wait, full of delays and critical slams. Mr Freeman is back and was it worth 
 the wait? You bet it was, not only is Half-Life 2 one of the best shooters of the 21st century 
 its not hard to go as far to call it the best action game of all time.
  
  Initially you are greeted with a familiar face, well actually not quite. The face this time is 
 freakishly lifelike, unlike the one we all saw in 1998 from Carmacks Quake engine I am of course 
 reffering to the G-man who is the first face you see in Half Life . Now he can express emotions 
 remniscent to an actual human being unlike the indifferent expression he constantly pulled in the 
 original. Thats actually a very important point. In terms of facial expressions the Source engine 
 is unmatched even to this day, almost 3 years later. Considering its been 3 years the graphics 
 are still amazing to this day, still you can find your jaw dropping slightly at the water affects 
 and the lifelike bloom effects in fact the source engine generally looks very realistic. This all 
 helps to immerse you into the Half-Life world.
  
  However as Doom 3 showed, games are not all graphics. Now we are moving onto the best bit, that 
 of course being: gameplay.
  
  I gave gameplay a nine, it fell short of a perfect 10. Well mainly because the A. I isn't as great 
 as the soliders were in the original, the pistol and the SMG feel rather weak and the viechle sequences 
 are too long for their own good, but other than that its astonishing. From Ravenholm to noble Prospect 
 the gameplay holds up remarkably well. The puzzles take full advantage of Havocs physics engine, 
 allthough not amazingly tough to work out they are good for breaking up the action. Allthough jumping 
 puzzles are very tedious.
  The core shooting action is incredibly fun and the level design is maybe the best of all time, 
 it is really that good. This certainly isn't a run of the mill shooter and it isn't easy but nor 
 is it as challenging as the original, espicially the last episode, the gun you end up with is too 
 overpowerd and the end puzzle isn't as hard as you would like making it a little anticlimatic. 
 I wouldn't go as far as calling it dumbed down but its slightly dissapointing nonetheless. Gordons 
 arsenal is smaller this time around, the best ones are all still intact. However the best gun in 
 the game and arguably the best gun in any FPS to date will have to be the gravity gun. Weather 
 it being killing combine soliders with toilet seats or severing zombies with razor blades its a 
 blast to use
  
  Its not really the action that makes the game great however, its the way you see everything through 
 gordons eyes. Its surprising no other Fps has tried it, its easily the best formula for FPS games 
 to use its certainly the most immersive way to do things. It rivials the top movies in the way 
 its implemeted.
  
  The sound isn't as great as games like call of duty, the sound of the guns could of been better, 
 the soundtrack allthough great and tends to kick in at the right time just fell short it even sounds 
 a little dated but its still amazing and little beat it in its class.
  
  This game could last you for years, not only does it come with games like Counter Strike: Source 
 and Half-Life 2 Deathmatch. Its mod support blows everything away to the point that some mods surpass 
 the original games multiplayer componants. Hidden Source is worthy of mention most and for Single 
 Player I would recommend Minerva.
  
  Its lasted me for a year now and i have yet to be bored at all. I have played through the campain 
 twice and killed many hours on the multiplayer mods. Its what makes the game a definate purchase, 
 even if you hate the way Half-Life plays which is unlikely its worth getting its just for the mods. 
 The mods alone justify the purchase. Allthough Half-Life 2 has some flaws its just being nitpicky 
 as at the end of the day not alot even comes close to Half-Life 2, if Single isn't your thing get 
 it for CS and the mods if Single Player is your thing then its likely you allready have Half-Life 
 2. Its more than a game, its a reremberable experience that will stick with you for a very long 
 while. The bottom line is, you need this game, becuase its as good as PC gaming gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHARPSHOOTER25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is, even more than two years after its release, still an excellent game. The single 
 player is enjoyable by itself, and would of gotten a 9.0 if the game was signle player by itself. 
 But the strengths of Hal Life 2 are not in its singleplayer, its in its multiplayer.
  
  When you buy HL2, make sure you get the bundle edition that comes with HL2, HL2 Episode 1, CS: S, 
 and DoD: S, and of course HL2: DM. These games offer topnotch multiplayer with literally thousands 
 of people playing each at any given time. Mods of these games such as Gun Game and Zombie Mod for 
 CS: S will prolong you enjoyment with these games much, much further.
  
  But again, as in HL1, the best mods are the user-created ones. Mods such as Source Forts, where 
 players create their own forts in a time period known as build time, then proceeed to attack the 
 enemy fort and take their flag while utterly raping their base and trying to defend their own offers 
 a kind of gameplay experience like no other. Dystopia, another fantastic mod which a new version 
 has just been released, sets players in the not so distant future where Corps battle Punks . Players 
 choose their weapons, augmentations, and other tools of the trade, and try to complete objectives 
 and possibly entering into the world of cyberspace. There is also the extremely famous Garry's 
 Mod, which makes the player's world into a virtual sandbox. Players can spawn literlly ANY prop 
 from HL2 or CS: S or any others that they decided to download and weld to to another, put rocket 
 boosters on it, gravity balls, or any other of the plethora of tools available. This mod was so 
 well received and so widely liked that Valve itself bought the game and it now costs $10 for the 
 new version of the mod. However, it is $10 well spent, and is highly reccomended.
  
  HL2 will literlly be the defining FPS for years to come, and if your missing out on it, your missing 
 from the greatest game in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timdabrat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. There is no other way to put it. Pure Genius. With its deep storyline, plenty 
 of action, hell of a lot of Mods, and of course, ZOMBIES!!! It picks up after HL1 ended, and with 
 Gman's opening speech, immediately draws you into the obscure world that is Half-life. With the 
 amazing Havok Physics engine and Valve's source engine, all work together to create this all in 
 all amazing game that is a must-own for all FPS or Action Gamers, and even if your not one, PICK 
 THIS GAME UP NOW. It was a brilliant idea also that they have packaged almost every version with 
 other games like CSS, HL2 DM, DoD Source, and the future episodes and Portal and Team fortress 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatzombiepigeon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many things I can diss when talking about Half-Life 2. It is one of the greatest games 
 I have ever played, and has effectively set a new standard for all first person shooters coming 
 any time soon in the future.
  
  The second you start up Half-Life 2, you're treated with an encounter with the G-Man, the mysterious 
 figure who locked you in stasis at the end of the first Half-Life and hired you. Apparently someone 
 has bought your contract, and you are free to go through with your objective, which you don't even 
 know yet. You soon discover that Gordan Freeman has been away for a long time. A very long time. 
 When we last left Mr. Freeman, he had just defeated the aliens of Xen after getting through the 
 infested Black Mesa. When you wake up fifteen years later (Like I said, you've been gone a very 
 long time.) , a new alien race known as the Combine, an alien empire spanning multiple universes, 
 has taken over Earth and enslaved it's human population. They are now draining the planet of all 
 its natural resources to perhaps fuel their massive empire. Some humans from Gordan's past have 
 built up a resistance which you quickly become a part of. And since you're Gordan Freeman, you 
 already know that you'll partake in the slaughter of at least half the Combine race, and become 
 the savior of humanity. Because it's Gordan Freeman we're talking about. The Earth is not only 
 infested with Combine however. The Vortigaunt have allied with humanity, the antlions have taken 
 over the outside world, and the disturbing races of headcrab are being used as biological weapons 
 at the hands of the Combine. So you've got to clean up all the mess that was partially your fault 
 anyway.
  
  The world of Half-Life 2 is a dying one. The combine have drained the ocean and continue to scour 
 the planet of everything valuable. Cities are downtrodden and slowly falling into disrepair and 
 humanity can do nothing to stop it. The graphics for the game are nothing short of stunning. Even 
 today, two years later, the game can compete with new releases. For their time, the graphics were 
 the best for any system ever created. Valve, the creators of the game, really worked hard to make 
 it seem as realistic as possible. Everything looks excellent, from water effects to characters 
 models. What is even more impressive are the physics. Every object moves and acts differently than 
 every other. It gets even better with the gravity gun, which I will describe later. Overall, nothing 
 looked or felt like Half-Life 2 upon its release, and few games today manage to compete with it.
 
  
  The sounds and music of Half-Life 2 are also outstanding. A unique soundtrack uses techno like 
 music to set the mood almost perfectly. The sound effects are also second to none. Voice acting 
 is top notch, and effects like the sounds the guns make and radio chatter you hear over combine 
 radios are all well above the norm.
  
  Although Half-Life 2 looks and sounds amazing, it truly shines in the gameplay department. Instead 
 of relying on run n' gun action to make up the majority of the gameplay, Valve makes the game feel 
 very tactical, and offers plenty of different things to do, so the game never gets old or boring. 
 Gunplay is phenomenal. Very fast paced and tactical. Go for cover, use the gravity gun to move 
 cover or throw objects at enemies, or just try to outgun the Combine with the rest of your arsenal, 
 who are quite intelligent, but can still walk out in front of you from time to time. The gravity 
 gun, mentioned twice above, lets you manipulate the physics engine in Half-Life 2 to your advantage. 
 Point at an object, right click, and the object, unless to heavy or large, will come towards you 
 and get caught in a tactor beam. Then by left clicking, you can shoot these objects at high speeds. 
 Use these objects as cover or as weapons against your enemies. Pick up a barrel for protection, 
 or pick up a saw blade and cut your enemies in half. There are hundreds of different ways to use 
 the gravity gun. Even propel heavier objects across long distances without using the tractor beam. 
 Throw a car or two into a Combine squadron. There's even more to Half-Life 2's gameplay. In other 
 instances, you can actually control antlions by using a bugbait (A small pod filled with those 
 goodies antlions just love.) , and then have them attack enemies, or rip through anything you want 
 them to. There's even traditional squad combat, and thanks to the game's awesome arsenal, even 
 when you're not using the gravity gun or bugbait you're still having a blast. Vehicle segments 
 are implemented and well done too. The game's multiplayer components are weak aside from Counter 
 Strike: Source, something many gamers might consider the game's true multiplayer content. Either 
 way, there's still multiplayer, but it's really all in Counter Strike. That is also considered 
 a seperate game, so another review will cover that. All in all, Half-Life has plenty of value in 
 it, and anyone who hasn't played the game yet is seriously missing out. The few flaws in Half-Life 
 2 are hardly noticeable. Probably because you'll be having so much fun with the game's lengthy 
 single player which can last around 15 hours. Without a doubt, Half-Life 2 is one of the greatest 
 games of all time, and sets new expectations of what we should come to find in a first person shooter.
 
  
  Recap:
  The Good:
  -Amazing graphics and sound
  -Lengthy single player
  -Some of the best gunplay in any shooter ever
  -Vehicle segments are very well done
  -The greatest 
 physics in any game ever
  -Very innovative
  -There are even zombies
  The Bad:
  -Some may not consider Counter Strike the actual multiplayer
  -Multiplayer that isn't Counter 
 Strike can be kind of weak
  -The game is so good; I can't really make fun of anything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Great Gameplay that makes you enter the Game as Gordan Freeman, as u fight ur way through 
 alot of levels &amp; alot of enemies . This game is very immersive , &amp; so intense that it could 
 make u forget ur self &amp; forget the time around u . It's Single player part it alone very great 
 &amp; unmatched by many games out there on the market , yet HL2 offers it through a long 15 or 
 20 hr journy as u get along with the world that u are now playing in &amp; get along with the new 
 enviroment set to u . The Graphics are amazing , stunning , absolotly revolutionary , u could think 
 that u need ur self a whole new Cutting Edge PC to play this game , yet it comes to have even a 
 2 or 3 yrs old system ( talking about 2000 , since thew game is released in 2004) so a 4 yrs old 
 system can play this game without noticing any much of a lag , offcourse with having some options 
 turned off , (that's right I'm talking about GeForce 440 &amp; old ATi cards) . The Sounds are 
 absolutly Marvalous , &amp; they are the reason along the graphics &amp; the gameplay that can 
 immerse u in the game &amp; make u feel a part of it, as to the voice acting , well it is just 
 as real asif the characters are saying them from there mouths, u dont notice at all that someone 
 is talking &amp; those characters are only moving there mouths , they are actaully talking !!! 
 that is hard hard work in sound &amp; graphics &amp; animation Excellent !!! .This Game is Revolutionary 
 .  
 Bad : Even though the game is Great , yet it's story is still Complicated , like that what happend 
 after the 1st HL , who in the heck is that Blue Suit Guy ( G-Man ) y does he disappear sometimes 
 &amp; appears someitmes in various places !! in what world i am in right now, this game offers 
 a lot of questions that dont have answers at all , it is unknow , u'll be confused &amp; unsure 
 of what is going on around u , all of what u'll know is that u r now a part of the Resistance , 
 What Resistance , dont ask i still dontudnerstand after 3 yrs of playing it !! .  
 Notes On The Game  
 - this is the game that revolutionized the graphics of Future games , &amp; it's engine is used 
 over many new games that are currently out in the market (Might &amp; Magic Dark Messiah but its 
 Texture's Engine is Enhanced , bu the GAme's Engine is still as that of HL2 ) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 2- it is the Game that have workd on systems that date back to 2000 , &amp; that uses GeForce 440 
 MX idk + there ATi equivelant cards . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 3- it's graphical engine also introduces HDRR ( High Dynamic Range Rendering ) which made HL2 one 
 of the 1st games that ever uses this technology of rendering if it really wasn't allready the 1st 
 one to ever use it !!! --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 4- it's story is still complicated , yet idk this might be thing from the Story of HL since thre 
 is alot of expansions packs for this game to arrive ( HL2 Episode 1 &amp; Episode 2 .,, idk Episode 
 3 etc.......... HL3 , the story still looks long ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 5 - I'm gonna give it's gameplay an 8 rather than 9 because i had alot headaches during playing 
 this game , idk if it is only me , but each time i played this game i felt i was playing it just 
 to finish, idk , but that doesn't change the fact of everything that I've written, so dont judge 
 my review on the gameplay score , but judge it on what I've written  
 - I have this problem with the AI , were the Ai kept on getting disabled during the game which 
 really made me annoyed during playing this game , this reallyeffected alot of things, such as the 
 Long Leged Spider Moster wouls sometimes not follow me to were i should kill him , &amp; sometimes 
 the resistance not opening to me the doors that will make me pass to the next level , etc... but 
 idk maybe thre is a patch to fix this all ,  
 - Update the game to it's latest version before playing it . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 Finally i would like to say that this game is great , &amp; playing this game will really make 
 u feel a part of a whole new world that is yet to be discoverd by the next part . if u still didn't 
 play this game yet (2007 so everyone have played it i think) but if u still didn't play it , then 
 hurry up &amp; get it &amp; get it's expansion HL2 Episode 1 , u really dont want to miss a game 
 like this , 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This really, in my opinion, this game goes up there with halo and goldeneye, and is even worthy 
 enough to be a sequels to the first one that came out in 1998. It really is one of Pc's best and 
 has changed my look at games. The game starts out with you having no idea what is going on, even 
 if you remember the story from the last game you still won't know whats happening. As it turns 
 out, you are a hero to the people that have been taken over by an alien race known as the combine 
 and they need you to stop them. There are lots of references the the story from the last game, 
 like they bring Barney and Dr. Kleiner back ( even though before they weren't main characters) . 
 The story flows along pretty good by separating action and storytelling scenes. It was a nice realistic 
 touch by telling the story all through gameplay and putting no cutscenes. The characters have really 
 good acting and voice acting so you feel like you're really there. The game isn't really broken 
 up into levels, but sort of as an ongoing level that loads from time to time. The screen never 
 fades and starts over, you just go through the whole game seeing how your character got everywhere. 
 That was pretty cool to do. One thing i like right off the bat about this game is its graphics. 
 The textures are high resolution, things reflect and shine, and bump mapping is placed correctly. 
 The graphics help burst the cinematic tone that the game strives to achieve. The face animation 
 on the characters are very realistic and their mouths move properly to the word they are speaking 
 rather than just flop their mouth up and down. People might say that small details such as the 
 face animation don't make a difference to the game, but as Half-Life 2 shows, they really do. Well, 
 once you have experienced the game's story and graphics, you will hugely enjoy the combat. It has 
 surprisingly intense shoot outs between you and the combine. The AI isn't too smart but neither 
 is it too dumb. It would have been nice is they had been able to take cover, but they will retreat, 
 flank or advance. The simplicity of the AI, though, make the game not very much of an effort to 
 beat. The difficulty may not be very challenging, even when set on hard, but the game is still 
 fun and will provoke a great and intense experience. The game's multiplayer is really just an updated 
 version of counter strike running on valve's Source engine. If you would like to check it out more, 
 go take at look at the previous installments of counter strike.
  There are still a lot of things that i have mentioned about this game that are good, but thats 
 what makes it so good. There are lots of things that are good about this game that are small and 
 big. If you want to experience all of the top quality games, give Half-life 2 a try.
  
  Ps. the xbox version is pretty much the same, just without a multiplayer component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I remember it first coming out on Steam and i rushed to finish it, i did so in about 8 hours in 
 one play session and as i remember its much shorter than the original. That said it's a very good 
 game but it may disappoint if your expecting something as revolutionary as the first game.
  
  The game itself did have the whole gravity gun thing which hasn't been done before in a FPS, 
 well like to this standard anyways. It really adds a fantastic touch to the game but without the 
 enemy having them and stupid AI it really makes it less fun. At E3 03 they showed how good the 
 AI was but it didn't turn out anything like that which was a shame.
  
  The game is average length for a FPS game and the additions of CS and other games coming with it 
 + the mod community really makes it great value. The mod community also can change all skins and 
 sounds in the game + interface and more so it really does mean the graphics and sounds could be 
 anything you want.
  
  The variation of levels is very good too altho there were some that felt rushed and just not fun 
 to play. which is also a problem on the expansion too. I love the sounds and stuff, my fave touch 
 is the siren noises that are like whale calls :) The story ends at a cliff hanger which is obviously 
 setup for the episode content, they've planned this for longer than they let on.
  
  Anyways overall its a fantastic game but not as good as the first because it doesn't have a big 
 impact like the first. It's still fun though but the AI really lets the game down IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  My statement above is due to the source engine being stolen.. (and then used in games like Farcry 
 (yeah different engine but still had that Source-esk feel) .. released prior to HL2) Though the 
 gravity gun makes up for this.. The gameplay is just perfect.. it shifts from periods of quietness 
 to periods of all out battles.. good combination for any game. The game does drag a bit in the 
 beginning .. as did the first game.. in fact some similarities do come to life.. The train ride 
 in the beginning of HL1 is still there in 2.. The city battle before you get to the citadel is 
 still there like in HL1 before you get to the Lamda Labs. Even the ailen feel is still there in 
 the citadel like it was in Xen (where you had to make your way to the top to get to the end boss) . 
 So they copied the formula.. it was their formula, after all! Just kind of, I don't know.. excepted.. 
 much like knowing what generally will come next in a movie. The cliff hanger ending is much like 
 in HL1 where you don't know what happened in the real world after you kill the Nihilanth..
  
  The other gripe is with Barney.. when the hell did he become buddy buddy with you?! If you 
 want to know the story just play Blue Shift.. he doesn't even know the guy.. just seen him on two 
 occations in the game. Heck Adrian Shepard (Opposing Force) has more reason to know him.. lol
  
  Okay Dr. Klien.. (sp) where did they get this guy? Almost every scientist in the original HL 
 stated Good to see you .. was that supposed to give you a clue? At least Dr. Vance was there .. 
 sending you to the surface.. right next to the machine Its about to go critical in unforeseen consequences..
 
  
  Pretty much these are my only gripes.. unless you count Adrain Shepard not appearing either even 
 after the G-man gives him a rest . Guess we will have to see if Shepard makes it into Ep2 n 3.. 
 (HOPEFULLY)
  
  Now Graphics: Considering Farcry.. the graphics were a little less than impressive.. but if released 
 prior to Farcry.. it would have been awesome 
  
  Gameplay: Plays excellent without bugs!
  
  Sound: Excellent some reoccurence of original HL sounds but that has to happen :)
  
  Value: 
 Together with CCS and HL2 deathmatch? pretty good! In fact the collector's edition had HL: Source.. 
 Kicking up the value of the game!
  Along with the t-shirt .. which I still wear! :P
  
  Tilt.. I have to give it a solid 9.. Farcry was the only one killing the overall 10 ish.. (prolly 
 they took the source code!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chettyharish
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  I Am Pretty Happy With The Game.
  
  Graphics ---9.5/10 Hahaha Nothing Looks Better Than This In The Whole World
  
  Sound ---9/10 
 They Surely Went To Their Science Classes For Sure Reality ---10/10 This Is Where They Score Like 
 Heaven Its Just Made Perfect
  
  The Big Glitch ---10/10 Wow A Perfect Glitch Too Well If the People Did Not Notice This Then They 
 Should. The Glitch Is SimpleTake A Big Flat Piece Pick It With Ur Hands And See Down Move A Little 
 Forward And Keep On Pressing JUMP And What The Hell U Are Flying If This Glitch Gets Outmastered 
 Then The Game Might End In Less Than 1Hr For Sure. We Also Saw This Famous Video Clearly Showing 
 That {Down}
  
  The Small Stupid Glitch ---0.25/10 I Dont Think they Do Matter But I Will Post For Fun. First Of 
 All The MAGNUM REVOLVER IS Way Perfect In The Game In Accuracy Or Damage And One Shot Kills The 
 Thing Which It Hits And The Accuracy IS Hell Perfect Which Makes It Feel Untrue. Second Is We Are 
 In Future And We Still Use The Present Weapons???? Like Shotgun And Machine Gun The Only Future 
 Gun Is The Gravity Gun And To Some Instance The Pulse Rifle????. The Last And The Most Less Observed 
 Is Simple Ok U Need Two Glass Bottles If One Is Already Standing Then Dont Move It Get One More 
 Using Your Hands And Not The Gavity Gun Now Come And Throw It On The Standing Bottle The Thrown 
 Bottle Will Hit The Standing Bottle And Break Into Two Whereas The Standing Bottle Neither Breaks 
 Nor Falls???????
  
  The Force ---NA U Cannot Even Wander Off And Enjoy The Scenery And Graphics Instead Of Fighting 
 Hope U Could Actually Games Like Farcry Are Better In This Aspect Hope We Get It In HL3
  
  Final Result ---8/10 Well The Game Is Almost Perfect But If The Big Glitch Wasnt There Then I Would 
 Have Surely Given 9.5/10 I Just Cant Believe How They Make Such A Beautifull Perfect Game And Miss 
 A Such A Huge Thing Then It Looks Weird. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCCERBALLS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  half life 2 an amazing game. the graphics are some of the best out there and the enviemenst are 
 rendered very well. with the gravity gun, you can pick up almost anything in the game and use it 
 against other enemys, and you can also pick up exoloseves and hurl those at a crowd and rape 'em 
 all. i thought that the story line was some of the best writing in any game. it really makes you 
 feel like your care about the charcters and really want to know what the hell is going on. if you 
 are into any FPS's like Halo and others like doom 3. DEFENTLY pick this game up, its one of the 
 best FPS's out there....^.^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anuebis
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  My first impression was that the game moved slowly. I held strong for first half hour to hour. 
 At that point, this game is off to the races. The look of this game is great. The graphic work 
 well, depending on the video card your using. And as you can tell the engine is solid. I get the 
 impression this engine well be well used in other games. This helps add to the experience of this 
 game. Once you fire the first shots at the Combine, their is not going back and you become fully 
 absorbed in all that is about to unfold. The game goes in many directions and takes that next step 
 in providing the little things to make you feel like you really are Gordan Freeman, the last Free 
 man. The shots of the 9mm leaves you satisfied, it leaves you with the impression of that little 
 kick from the fire. The other weapons are great. The rocket launch was also another favorites of 
 mine. If there is a weak nitch in the game I have to say the sound would have been it. Lets not 
 get me wrong the sound was fine. Excellent voice acting, but some of the effects were lacking. 
 What comes to mind is the little beeps and the sound of head crabs, and some of the zombies. But 
 over all it was great. The feel and control of the game is superb., responsive and as I stated 
 before very satisfying. The game had some great length and really cool challenges. Not in the sense 
 of a traditional boss fight, but along the same lines The ending was similar to that of Halo, but 
 didn't make me scream at my screen. Basically through the process of playing this game I was converted 
 from a Halo fan to Half-life fan. I've gone on to play the next episode and am looking forward 
 to much more from this franchise. Game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samurai210
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a ton of fun. The graphics are really good. The story is really good. Game is also 
 scary, depressing, and many others. This story will really draw you in. With the new graphics this 
 game is an instant winner. I wish I had a higher end pc to view it at max, but thats what a ps3 
 is for. The graphics are still amazing on a low end computer. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who is in to first person shooters. The story will really get into your head. The story will make 
 you angry and want to fight for your life. The game has no major flaws no lame things always keeps 
 you guessing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kowax88
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  In Half-Life 2, you once again assume the role of Gordon Freeman, the theoretical physicist and 
 dimension-hopping commando who saved the world from an alien invasion at the end of Half-Life. 
 Or did he? Half-Life 2 starts you off facing the infamous G-Man, the mysterious blue-suited character 
 from the first game. At the end of Half-Life, the G-Man offered you a choice: work for him or die. 
 Since there would be no sequel if you chose the latter, Half-Life 2 assumes you chose the former, 
 and you start the game in a train entering City 17 for your introduction into this new world.
 
  
  City 17 is a run-down urban center that's the equivalent of the Warsaw ghettos during World War 
 II, but instead of Jews being rounded up to live in City 17, it's all the remnants of a defeated 
 humanity. Half-Life 2 takes place an untold number of years after the Black Mesa incident, but 
 it's clear that much has changed. A mysterious enemy known as the Combine has conquered the planet 
 and installed a human puppet government to carry out its rule. Black-clad security forces patrol 
 the streets, while propaganda blares endlessly from omnipresent video screens. If there's one thing 
 that Valve does extremely well, it's capture a sense of atmosphere -- this vision of a dystopian 
 police state is chillingly effective. But you won't spend a lot of time soaking in the scene before 
 you're thrust into the struggle to defeat the Combine and free humanity.
  
  As soon as the shooting begins you'll join an essentially nonstop battle that will last the remainder 
 of the game. Like the original Half-Life, Half-Life 2 is presented as a nearly seamless experience -- you 
 play entirely from Gordon Freeman's perspective, there are no cutscenes or perspective changes 
 to take you out of the moment, and are there no narrative jumps that skip ahead in time. (At least, 
 there are none from your perspective.) There also aren't very many long loading times to interrupt 
 the flow of the game, as all the levels are discreetly broken into sections, and when you transition 
 from one section to another, there's only a slight pause for the new section to load (at least, 
 on a high-end PC) . Put it all together and the game's single-player campaign, which will probably 
 take you between 15 and 20 hours to complete, comes off as a very long day in the extraordinary 
 life of Gordon Freeman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fs_metal
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2
  By: Fs_Metal
  
  Game title: Half-Life 2
  Genre: First Person Shooter
  Platform: X-Box and PC. Upcoming on the PS3 and 360
  ESRB Rating: Mature
  Developer: Valve
 
  Release date: November 16, 2004
  Overall rating: 10/10
  
  Wake up Mr. Freeman. Wake up and smell the ashes.
  
  Half-Life 2 is the sequel to the critically 
 acclaimed Half-Life, a game that won a record setting 60 Game of the Year awards in 1998. Being 
 the sequel to a game of such high calibur, it has some mighty big shoes to fill. On the outside, 
 it seems like Half-Life 2 did a decent job of of it, winning a more than respectable 35 Game of 
 the Year awards itself. While this is nothing compared to the previous games 60, 35 is still unheard 
 of in the gaming world. Next to nothing has ever done that. Are they justified, though? Does this 
 game really deserve it's 35 Game of the Year awards? Lets find out, shall we?
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  
  The most important thing in any first person shooter is the gameplay. Half-Life 
 2 has alot of it, and man is it good. There is more to do than just shooting here. There are puzzles 
 to solve, vehicle levels and a beautiful world to explore. Half-Life 2 has it all, and it is all 
 extremely well done. It is not very often that video games impress me this much, especially when 
 you take into consideration that this game doesn't really do too much that is truely innovative, 
 atleast from a gameplay stand point. The shooting is just that satisfying. The majority of the 
 enemies that you will fight in this game are called the Combine. They are intellegent. The enemy 
 AI is great, and it makes them fun to battle. There are plenty Combine to kill as well. They will 
 back away, duck, dodge and work together to best you. Valve did a truely impressive job with the 
 AI. It far surpasses that of the first Half-Life, which was very impressive back then. There is 
 also a nice variety of guns in this game. Thanks to the many different types of guns, and the different 
 elemetns of HL2's enviorment, you will never run out of ways to kill people. I must compliment 
 Valve on the Gravity Gun. This pretty much makes up all of the gameplay innovation, and it is beyond 
 cool. The Gravity Gun allows you to pick up objects and toss them at enemies. Don't feel like shooting 
 your enemy? Pick up a brick and toss it at him. It's that simple, and alot of fun. The Gravity 
 Gun is also the center of alot of the games puzzles.
  
  Gordon uses the Gravity Gun to kill Headcrab Zombies.
  
  Speaking of the puzzles, they are 
 logical. They make you think, but are never overly frustrating. They are well thought out, and 
 are an excellent edition to the gameplay. As previously mentioned, the world of this game is big 
 and beautiful. There are many things to see, from opressed suburbs to sandy beaches. It is all 
 a joy to explore and look at. Finally, there are the vehicles sections of the game. There are a 
 few sections throughout the game where you will be given a vehicle to control. These are also superb. 
 The vehicles are easy to control and a blast to drive. They will give you a real sense of speed, 
 and it gives the game an overall frantic run and gun gameplay feel that just enhances an already 
 spectacular experience. It also does a nice job in breaking up the meat of the game, and it aids 
 in making the game never feel repetitive.
  
  The vehicle levels are a blast.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  How often do games age this well? Half-Life 2 is now 2 years old, and it 
 is still a step above almost everything else. This game looks phenominal. The draw distance is 
 incredible. The level of detail is undheard of. The characters in this game are some of the most 
 realistic I have ever seen. The animations of the characters are as good as video games get. The 
 physics engine in this game is the best of any video game EVER. You would have to see it in action 
 to believe just how good it is. This game uses color brilliantly, to set the moods of different 
 areas. The main city is a little drab, indicating the opression. The prison is run down and falling 
 apart, indicating just how much the Combine care about the Earth. The sandy beaches are beautiful, 
 but litered with junk, rust and run down houses, which shows both freedom and a lack of safety, 
 and Ravenholm has a real survival horror setting. It is all brilliantly done. I cannot praise the 
 graphics enough, and I cannot find the right words to describe just how good this game looks. I 
 will just post a couple of high res screenshots for you all to admire.
  
  A driving level. Look at that water, and the way the sun reflects off of it.
  
  An urban war 
 zone. Look at the smoke, fire and the way the sun shines through.
  
  Ravenholm. Look how creepy, sad and depressing it is. It looks like something straight out of a 
 Resident Evil.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  The sound on this game is just as good as the rest of the package. The guns sound very convincing. 
 Even the non-existant ones sound like you would think that they would sound. The voice acting in 
 this game is top notch. All of the characters voices are very well done, and they help sell the 
 characters. You could almost be convinced that they are real. Whoever directed this part of it 
 should get a raise. Monsters sound extremely good too. Zombies have this ghastly scream, and when 
 you hear the poisonous headcrabs, you feel it in your spine. You turn around as quickly as humanly 
 possible, in hopes of getting it before it gets you. All of these noises, combined with the absence 
 of music, fire and several other things help to give the Ravenholm section of this game even more 
 of a survival horror feel. It may not scare you, but it is bound to creep you out. The music in 
 this game is also used well. It is almost never used, but when it does, you know something is about 
 to happen. It really helps build up tension. Sometimes it seems like it is too quite. Sometimes 
 the music pumps you up and gets you ready to slaughter your opressors. The boys at Valve have outdone 
 themselves this time. This game feature sound that is as good as it gets,
  
  Story - 10/10
  
  Obviously, no one expects a Vagrant Story calibur story here, and you don't 
 get it, but what is here is very good and very well told. It is all very cenamatic. All of Half- 
 Life 2's story is told just like the first one, where you never leave the first person perspective. 
 It is all done through top notch special effects, characters actions, things you see and characters 
 interacting with one another. This is a very good way of doing it, because it allows you to get 
 into it even more. You see the story as it unfolds from the eyes of one of the major players. This 
 is a brilliant way of doing it because you feel like you are actively changing the way the story 
 goes. It really helps you get into it even more, and I wish other companies would do the same.
 
  
  The game story is all told from the eyes of Gordon Freeman.
  
  The game takes place some time after Half-Life. G-Man brings Gordon out of what is, essentially, 
 stasis, telling him there is work to do. He places him on a train, and sets him off on his way. 
 The world has changed in huge ways. Black Mesa is no more, but the administrator at Black Mesa, 
 Dr. Breen, is a figure head for an opressive government controlled by an alien race known as the 
 Combine. Barney Calhoun, 'the' Black Mesa security guard, is a member of Civil Protection, which 
 are, essentially, the police in this world. He is also a member of a resistance against the Combine. 
 He joined Civil Protection in an attempt to help the resistance. Dr. Eli Vance and Dr. Isaac Kleiner 
 are also part of the resistance. They are attempting to build a teleportation device to help out 
 the resistance by getting people out of City 17, the main setting of Half-Life 2. There are new 
 characters as well, such as Alyx Vance, Eli's daughter and Dog, a robot that Eli built to protect 
 Alyx. This is how the game is all set up, and it takes off from there. There are several good plot 
 twists in the story, and it's cenamatic story telling is sure to keep you engrossed until the it's 
 climatic, cliff hanger ending.
  
  G-Man talks to Dr. Freeman, just before leaving him on a train headed for City 17
  
  Replay 
 value - 10/10
  
  I beat Half-Life 2 yesterday, and all I can think about is playing more Half-Life 2. As if playing 
 through the single player mode again weren't good enough, you have several multiplayer options. 
 Much like the first game, this game has excellent multiplayer. It features a version of Couterstrike 
 built onto of the game Source engine, which is very cool. It also includes Half-Life 2: Deathmatch, 
 which is standard death match, but it is alot of fun. If you get tired of all that, there are also 
 many mods for this game. Just like it's predecessor, this game will last a very, very long time. 
 It has more replay value than almost any other game of it's kind.
  
  Final thoughts:
  
  Rarely ever does a game come along that is this good. Everything about this game is fine tuned 
 to perfection to make a complete package that you have to play to believe. If you have a computer 
 that will run it, buy it now. If you have a X-Box, buy it now. If you don't, you are in luck. There 
 are versions of it that will come to both the Playstation 3 and the X-Box 360, along with HL2: 
 Episodes 1 and 2. I cannot recommend this game enough. It is gaming bliss, and it deserves every 
 single one of the 35 Game of the Year awards that it recieved.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  Satisfying shooting. Great puzzles. Excellent exploration and driving levels.
  
  Graphics - 
 10/10
  Next to nothing is this beautiful.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  Guns sound convincing, and the voice acting is excellent. Music is used sparingly and to great 
 effect
  
  Story - 10/10
  Excellent presentation of the story. This is as good as the FPS genre gets.
  
  Replay value 
 - 10/10
  Worth multiple playthroughs. Good multiplayer and mods. This game is here to stay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  HL2 will keep you on the edge of your seat. The weapons the gameplay the sound the graphics. Theres 
 not one thing you shouldnt like about this game! Its is possibly one of the best PC games ever 
 made. The fact that there are no cut scenes makes it so much more different. My only one complaint 
 is that it was to stinking short. You start the game and its over. Thats the only problem with 
 it. Besides that I was on the edge of my seat the whole time. I was jumping a lot from this game. 
 It was so scary in some spots thats why it also kept me on the edge of my seat. The guns in this 
 game were amazing. From the pistol to the rocket launcher it was amazing! I spent 40 dollars for 
 this game with HL source and CSS and Ive thought it was cheap! This game goes into my top 3 favorite 
 games it is one of the best PC games I have ever played! From begging to end I loved each chapter. 
 And I think any FPS fan will love this game. If you dont like the HL series there is something 
 wrong with you. So enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetelite62
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest shooting game to have ever come into existence, bar none. Everything about 
 it is simply amazing. The story is good, the graphics were by far the best of its time and are 
 still amazing, and the weapons are all great. With all of the expansion packs, new episodes, and 
 Counter Strike included, you can't go wrong. The mouse and keyboard also work perfect with it. 
 The only game that might end up being better is Crysis. If your PC can play this, then go buy it 
 now. There is no reason why anyone with a PC would not have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojo198
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  half life 2 is a first person shooter that win Game of the YEAR award bla bla,
  the game is not bad, but it feel a little unfinished, sure the action is quite good but nothing 
 new when u completed, well the game can be enjoyable to go play again after finished it to some 
 people, the only cool and fun thing in this game is the havoc physic and stuff like the gravity 
 gun, and what is the gravity gun that u been ask? well it is kind of like the gun that use object 
 as a weapon!
  thats right use the object as a bullet! it suck some of the object right in to the gun and u can 
 launch it to the enemy, and its a really usfull gun because it is so powerful, the enemy AI a great, 
 and u can order ur ally ai where to go in this game, ally AI in this game can be so annoying they 
 can slow u down because they block ur way most of the time but they know how do move out of the 
 way but its so damn slow, as i said they so annoying!! and below is the list of the good and the 
 bad in this game,
  
  The Good : great physic great voice acting, good graphic, pretty good sound, they a some of the 
 cool weapon to use in the game, what is even good about is the systems requirement.
  
  The Bad : the sound of the gun, not so open level and indoor level a too small, AI needs alittle 
 more work, the game is abit unfinished some of the area if u screw up u stuck forever and need 
 to restart.
  
  The Result : 8.5 score it was pretty great game over all.
  
  The recommend : i recommend u buy at the store its cheaper and include multiplayer content.
  
 
  i thank you for reading have a nice day fellas bye bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  What hasn't been said about Half Life 2? The sequel to one of the most revolutionary action games 
 of the 90s, is everything it set itself to be and more, much more. Half Life 2 is a cinematic experience, 
 a wild adventure, a rollercoaster of adrenaline and suspense, a truly unique gaming experience 
 that simply needs to be lived to fully appreciate. Half Life 2 is easily one of the best FPS game 
 ever, and without a doubt it's one of the greatest games ever created.
  
  What separates Half Life 2 from any other FPS game is the way the game immerses you into it's own 
 world. Half Life 2 is best described as an immersive masterpiece. From the moment you set foot 
 in City 17, you become Gordon Freeman (the main hero) , and you feel a part of that oppressed humanity 
 that's struggling to survive and is ready to put up one last fight against the Combine oppressors. 
 Every character that you meet is unique and interesting in their own way, and it's very easy to 
 grow deeply attached to most of the characters in the game. No other action game handles it's characters 
 and the world it's set on like Half Life 2 does.
  
  And if the story, characters and the environment are so great, what would be the perfect compliment? 
 A perfect presentation. Half Life 2, powered by the Source engine, features some of the most beautiful 
 and realistic graphics in any game. The Source engine succeeds where other games fail, in that 
 it's capable of rendering a believable world, regardless of the nature of said world. From City 
 17, to Ravenholm, to the beaches, to Nova Prospekt, to the interiors of the Combine Citadel, all 
 of them are as realistic and well done as you could ask for. To top it all, the facial animation 
 technology used in Half Life 2 is by the far the best ever used in a game. Every character is capable 
 of displaying a full array of emotions, something that has a tremendous effect in the development 
 of this characters. And if that wasn't enough, the voice acting is very well handled. Every one 
 of the main characters is masterfully voiced (most of the characters are voiced by hollywood talent) , 
 and while some of the supporting cast share the same voice (the random habitants of City 17) , they 
 still manage to stand out, due to the enthusiasm and glee they show when they meet you in the game. 
 Plain and simple, Half Life 2 is unmatched when it comes to delivering an excellent presentation.
 
  
  And once you peel all the layers, Half Life 2 is an excellent shooter in it's own, with some of 
 the best and most engaging action sequences in any game. Your available arsenal of weapons is very 
 similar to the one from the original game, which is not bad considering it was a great set of weapons 
 to begin with (the shotgun's alt fire and the RPGs laser guiding, are as enjoyable as ever) . But 
 the introduction of the gravity gun changes everything, since there has never been anything quite 
 like it. Giving you the ability to handle objects in the surrounding world, the gravity gun adds 
 a whole new set of possibilities to confronting the different situations you'll come across, most 
 of them so satisfying and effective, the gravity gun can replace your whole arsenal during segments 
 of the game.
  
  But that's not to say your entire arsenal is obsolete, because it's not. You'll still have plenty 
 of opportunities to unleash hundreds of bullets upon your enemies, and on many occasions you won't 
 fight alone. Some of the best sequences in Half Life 2, are those that have you fighting alongside 
 the rebels of City 17 as well as some of the games main characters, like Alyx, Barney, Dog and 
 Father Gregori. And during the late game, it's an understatement that you'll need to have this 
 guys fighting along your side, since some of the late battles escalate to epic proportions, of 
 particular note would be the battles with the Striders, the towering 50 foot tall organic monsters 
 that are the epitome of the war of the worlds that's taking place. All things considered, there's 
 not a dull moment in Half Life 2, as the action just keeps flowing from beginning to end. There 
 are no filler levels present here (something that even the best FPS games have to resort to) , every 
 chapter offers a unique and entertaining experience, and it all adds up to one memorable long journey.
 
  
  Ok, so having mentioned everything that's great about Half Life 2, it's only fair to mention the 
 game's few faults, most of which stem from the fact that in many ways Half Life 2 sticks too close 
 to outdated shooter concepts, something that ends up killing the immersion a bit. Gordon's ability 
 to carry an entire arsenal by himself is not only completely illogical but it also makes selecting 
 your weapon of choice something of a chore. Considering that several shooters before Half Life 
 2 had already eschwed this old school conception (Call of Duty and Far Cry for example) , it's a 
 bit dissapointing Half Life 2 didn't look towards the future in this aspect. Another outdated concept 
 that rears it's ugly head are infinitely spawning enemies. This usually happens when you need to 
 solve a puzzle and enemies are constantly thrown at you to keep you on your toes. To me infinitely 
 spawning enemies are a cardinal sin this days; it was ok ten years ago, but not today. Another 
 strange issue that kills the immersion is the fact for some reason you can't see Gordon's hand 
 when he's carrying an object (with the exception of guns) . While this doesn't affect the gameplay, 
 it's a rather inexplicable flaw in a game that works so hard at creating a perfectly immersive 
 gameworld. And finally, while having Gordon speak at this point would probably be inappropiate, 
 it's kind of weird to have everyone talk so enthusiastically at you without you ushering a word 
 back.
  
  But despite it's few flaws (which to be honest are only noticeable due to the game being so great 
 in it's every other aspect) Half Life 2 is plain and simply a game you must experience. Action 
 games just don't get any better than this. With an effective combination of top notch presentation, 
 including cutting edge graphics and quality voice acting, as well as some of the best action sequences, 
 all wrapped around an immersive world, with great characters and an enigmatic story, Half Life 
 2 easily leaves it's mark as one of the greatest games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fraser_b
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is strait up a great game. The rag doll effect in it is pretty sweet. If you get half 
 life two another great thing to get with it is garry's mod, which lets you build things using everything 
 in half life 2.
  The game itself is amazing, a very interesting single player mode which lasts a surprisingly long 
 time and takes you to many different places. The world it takes place in is controlled by the sinister 
 Dr. Breen, and he controls these combine soldiers which you'll be fighting half the time. The other 
 half you are fighting zombies and headcraps (aka head-humpers) .
  You should get this game if you've never played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I didn&acute; t play this game when it originally came out, but when it received tons of GOTY awards 
 and lots of people said that it was one of the best games ever I thought that I just had to give 
 it a try. I was utterly disappointed.
  
  One thing that most people like about the game is its graphics, but I have to say that I wasn&acute; t 
 too impressed ( even though I have a high-end PC ) . That&acute; s because I don&acute; t believe 
 that beatiful graphics is all about textures, polygons, resolution, AA, etc., etc.. My opinion 
 is that the core of beautiful graphics is ingenius artistic design and dev&acute; s that know how 
 to maximise the power of the hardware they&acute; re working on. The people at Valve are good at 
 the later, but not at the previous. What I mean is that even though the graphics are really advanced, 
 I think that the game design in HL2 is dull, to say the least. Everything in the game looks like 
 a orphanage in Romania, grey and boring.
  
  Another thing that really disturbed me in the game was the Gravity Gun .
  SPOILER AHEAD: When 
 I first received the weapon in the game I thought it was really cool, but after 5 min I though, 
 What the ****, I can&acute; t use it on my enemies. Doesn&acute; t gravity affect a human body? Am 
 I floating in space? This irritated me through the entire game and then suddenly, when I reached 
 the end of the game... The gravity gun suddenly works on enemies and THAT&acute; S ALL YOU CAN DO, 
 no other weapons what so ever. I think that the gravity gun destroyed the whole game, it was such 
 a ridiculous weapon, especially when you take into the consideration that Valve worked so hard 
 on their physichs engine for the game, but when it comes to the main weapon of the game, suddenly, 
 laws of physics don&acute; t apply...
  And also, the games ending was the worst anticlimax I&acute; ve ever experienced and then Valve 
 instead develops three extra episodes for us gamers to buy. That&acute; s too much of milking the 
 cow for my taste and I won&acute; t buy episode I, II&amp; III.
  
  Even though I have my fair amount of criticism for HL2 I still think it&acute; s a solid FPS and 
 it&acute; s kinda nice to sometimes shoot things to death for a couple of hours, but this was a 
 kind of game that made me think Done, insert next game, forget about previous one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwiztedMetal
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all from the fast action game play to analytical problem solving to complete puzzles. 
 Graphics are great the game is flooded with color and depth to make you feel as if you were right 
 there in the game. The story line has to be the best story made for a first person shooter. The 
 story keeps you wanting to play the game just so you can see whats gong to happen next. The weapons 
 you get in this game are pretty good. The gravity gun has to be one of the most unique weapons 
 you can use and it takes some skill to get it down but once you got a handle on it it can be even 
 more deadly than some of the guns you get. After you have played and beat this one dont forget 
 to try Half life 2 Episode 1-3 some of them, right now, are not released yet but they are an addition 
 to the story that the foundation was laid on in this game. This game is a must have and worth more 
 than you get charged to pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagavolu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  An amazing achievement. A very impressive game from one of the best game developers of all time, yet 
 there are few issues with the game which are quite noticeable even for players who are playing 
 the Half-Life series for the first time.
  
  The Good : Stunning graphics. Ultra realistic game play. Brilliant voice acting. Facial animations 
 are terrific thanks to the new souce engine. The first time when I played the game i was disappointed 
 with the graphics, but as I started playing the game I realised that the graphics were so amazing 
 that they even outclassed Doom3's graphics. From the very simple bottles on the floor to the huge 
 tanks which blast rockets at you, literally everything behaves as it should. Has a pretty decent 
 length of about 15 to 20 hours. Impressive new weapons especially the gravity gun is fantastic. You 
 can make use of the environment to a great extent either for offense or defense. The bug bait concept 
 of the game is something which you will enjoy a lot.
  
  The Bad : Enemy AI is extremely disappointing considering the AI of the enemy to the original. The 
 enemy hides behind objects for about a second or two and the comes charging straight at you making 
 it extremely easy to kill them. The weapons of the game feel overpowered because even in the hardest 
 of the difficulties you can kill the enemy with your pistol in about five shots, even quicker if 
 aimed at the head. Enemies do charge as groups at you but still there is literally no real challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is simply great. I bought this one day, without really knowing what to expect. I had 
 heard about the name 'Half life' but as a starting gamer didnt have clue. From the moment it started 
 this game grew on e, and pulled me into the world of Dr. Freeman. The Graphics of the game are 
 great, still no at the end of the DX9 era. The physics n the game are very cool and allow for some 
 cool additions that elevate HL2 from a regular shooter to a great game. Even if you're not a fan 
 of FPS games this is ne of the games you should check. The in game story telling was something 
 that was absolutely revolutionairy to me, and made me really feel as if I was there, running from 
 the Combine and fighting for the survival of our species.
  
  The levels are linear, but very large, and often so ingeniously constructed that you don't have 
 the feeling of linear game play. Actually I was often happy that the levels where linear, so I 
 could rest assured I was headed the right way :)
  
  The guns are cool, feel right and shoot the way you expect hem to. There are even some unusual 
 but great weapons like the crossbow with heated iron bars, and off course the gravity gun stole 
 the show.
  
  Half Life 2 is actually on the few games ever that kep me interest enough to let me actually finish 
 it, and got me hooked onto th Half Life universe and modern FPS games, that have adapted the methods 
 valve introduced, in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilard34
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  I cannot find anyother game, to date, that brings everything to the table like HL2 does. The graphcs 
 are astounding, infact I wouldnt even call it graphics, let me rephrase, the cinematography is 
 astouding. You can literally screen shot at any point in the game and marvel at the realism of 
 not the just the characters but of the render backgorunds buildings and simple objects just lying 
 around. HL2 Introduces a whole new way of playing games that other games have tried to accoomplish 
 but have failed miserably to the way HL2 delivers. The source engine allows the variable of physics 
 to come into play throughout the game, not only that but almost every object in the game is able 
 to be interacted with, whether you can pick it up with your hands or with the gravity gun. Speaking 
 of the gravity gun wasnt it named Best Weapon in Gaming Histroy? This game will have you craving 
 to play more, and with the episodic installments its hard to stop playing this masterpeice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmaster299
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't care if you have no idea who Gordon Freeman is, play Half Life 2. Half Life became and 
 is still the standard for FPS. Half Life 2 blows it's predecessor out of the water. I am glad Valve 
 waited for graphics to improve before releasing a sequel. Now, I strongly recommend playing Half 
 Life 1 and it's spin offs, like Opposing Forces and Blue Shift, the experience in the Half Life 
 Universe will pay off. The only thing that may throw neubs a curve is solving the puzzles. That's 
 where the experience pays off. If you've played the other Half Life titles you know all about trial 
 and error. There is not always an obvious path to follow. Other improvements are in the Urban style 
 war fair of the game. You not just a lone scientist running through a complex bashing zombies and 
 head crabs with a crow bar and occasionally running into a Spec Forces squad. In Half Life 2 pure 
 evil is set on ending humanity and the especially want your blood. Squad based friendly AI is a 
 nice touch, although they aren't much help beyond bullet catchers. It is nice to not run around 
 by yourself though. The only detraction I have is you can't just kill everyone you come across. 
 Vets of the old games know the fun of blasting a scientist with some 12 gauge for the heck of it. 
 The long and short of it is JUST PLAY THE GAME. You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmA101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is one of the best games that you will ever play as soon as you get into the game you 
 feel a rush flowing through your body. Its an FPS that will leave you wanting more and more. The 
 single player campaign has amazing gameplay in it and lots of clever puzzles , weapons and vehicles. 
 The multiplayer is exciting and fun to play but the thing thats best about Half Life 2 is the AI 
 and the faces the AI move , talk and look like a real person and the further you progress in the 
 game the more you feel like you know the character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abima
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  One of the most intense video game experiences I've ever had consisted of playing the first half-hour 
 of Half-Life 2. From the beginning I felt the defeat and depression of living under a totalitatian 
 regime. I only wish this mood persisted. The game has other wonderful moments and maps like this 
 one, but it also has some unnecessary exercises in repetition and futility, those being some areas 
 in which you're trapped and have to keep putting up a pair of turrets which the enemy players keep 
 knocking down while trying to eradicate you. Very silly. But that said, most of the levels and 
 missions in the game seemed new and fund, like the original Half-Life. Ultimately, I'd probably 
 only replace or improve about a quarter of them.
  Going back to the mood set in the beginning, had this been sustained through or revived elsewhere 
 in the game, it could have been an experience bordering on classic literature of the likes of 1984 
 or Brave New World. It missed this hurdle despite the promise it showed us reaching it. No great 
 crime to say a game came close to classic lit., of course... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobbra_Commande
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I like FPS that i can play my video card isn't that great yet i can play half life 2 on direct 
 x 8 full! I can barely play battlefield vietnam on medium! But it still looks AMAZING! I thought 
 it was gonna be a cheap copy off, off of half life 1 cause i didnt think anything could take out 
 half life to the way there story is and gameplay! But this people indeed is one of the Most Amazing 
 games I HAVE EVER PLAYED! No doubt! By far the MOST AWESOME GAME EVER! Its got some scary ass parts 
 some beautiful scenes and some amazing physics! BY FAR ITS LIKE A 20 points for my review! Im in 
 AWWWWWW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdyflightster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. The physics are so realistic and the graphics are mind blowing. then 
 there is the game play. Valve did a great job making the controls easy to use. It will only take 
 you a short amount of time to get the feel of your weapons and movement. This game will keep you 
 up to your eye balls in suspense, and you will find yourself playing this game for hours and hours. I 
 found that this game is one of the best i have played so far and i recommend it to anyone who loves 
 a good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammy777
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Rise and shine Mr. Freeman, rise and shine. It's time to kick alien butt once again, put on your 
 HEV Suit, get your crowbar and kick the Xen forces once again and a nex threat, the Combine, a 
 smarter and stronger race. It really changed gameplay since the original Half-Life, instead using 
 the heavily modified Quake engine SourceGold, it uses it's own engine, the Source engine with Havok 
 Physics, that means every item and people are interactive, yes ragdolls and movable items, not 
 just that, but also the stunning detail of graphics it gives, including HDR lighting, there are 
 tons of mods available for this game, like Garry's Mod, a construction mod to manipulate every 
 aspect of Half-Life and Super Mod, a Japanese mod that changes the story a little bit and put new 
 weapons to the side with extra gibs, bloods and bigger ragdoll physics, the only annoying side 
 is Steam updating, it's annoying as hell, but still go buy it's worth it, Counter-Strike Source 
 is also a great multiplayer game with built in bots, so you don't need to download bots, the bots 
 really also act like humans so it gives it a more realistic feel with both physics and graphics.
 
  This game is very recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  The story is amazing. Makes the game grow on you!!
  Is a sort of mix between Doom3 and F. E. A. R. Graphics are eccellent. Great shadows great reflexes. 
 New weapons without forget the old ones!
  Audio very good and intense.
  AI very good on medium and high difficulty.
  Gameplay: normal it is easy to play and also to 
 learn playing!
  
  I think is a great success of valve the only pity is that internet is required! A lot to say also 
 on Counter Strike Source: one of the best games i ever played.
  
  If you want a better opinion try it yourself!!!!! is the better way to judge a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimLesh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me get right into it.
  
  The story... never have I been so immersed in a story nor has story ever been so well integrated 
 into a videogame. It's super interesting with zombies, humans not being able to reproduce; you'll 
 see the others when you play!
  
  This is half puzzle solverand half FPS. When you get to a stopping point and can't figure out where 
 to go, you have to find a switch or use the physics engine (which pwns btw) in some way. It's a 
 thinking game kind of so if you just want a run through FPS of just shooting people, this isn't 
 the game for you.
  
  The game can sometimes scare you. If you aren't paying close enough attention, a fast zombie could 
 pop out and make you **** your pants. It scared the hell outta me when I first went to RavenHolm. 
 Same goes for Combine showing up in door ways unexpectedly.
  
  The multiplayer, in my experience, wasn't that exciting. There wasn't a whole lot to it and it's 
 kind of repetitive.
  
  There is a lot of enviromental sound everwhere you go. From water washing up on shore, to drains 
 dripping. When you get this game, don't forget to get Gary's Mod. I guarantee you will have hours 
 of fun with that little doozy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordofwarX
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  several years ago, half life was released. it recieved huge critics and awards for being such a 
 great game. the graphics and physics were excellent at it's time, and still continues to impress 
 us with its brilliant gameplay. half life 2 has managed to recieve almost the same fame its predecessor 
 had. i must say, the game is absolutely brilliant. the graphics are amazing, including the physics 
 and the A. I. from the meddling headcrabs to tower-tall striders, you'll fight em all... but not 
 without the help of faithful allies. this game keeps up a good lead on it's specifics. the A. I 
 is pretty smart as they take cover and know when to kill you or help you. But in some cases they 
 can be dumb but it doesnt really matter. the rest actually makes up for this, probably much more 
 than that. the sound is crisp and excellent, ud swear that u were pratically inside the game, not 
 playing it. of course, half life 2 isnt without some scary moments, such as zombies and headcraps 
 that come out of nowhere. its very impressive the designers managed to create a resident evil/ 
 sci-fi shooter blend. words cannot describe how great this game is, but all i can say, is it's 
 more than a masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I am not a fan of FPS but the anti-gravity gun make its so much funnier!! 
 haha. seriously, the graphics are great, storyline continues the saga (and by the way, is prety 
 cool too) , the use of havoc as a gravity engin is really a plus, that add a lot to the game realism. 
 Defenitly. you will want to play episode one when you finished playing this game!! also, one of 
 the greatest event of this game, is the engin that comes with it. You can edit your very own mod, 
 and the engin isn't very hard to learn. also, it make you able to crrate your own maps, and stories. 
 This game is a must for anyone who like First Person Shooters, but also those who want an addictive 
 and original plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  my initail impressions were pretty good, you start with a little intro then into a hitler based 
 city called City 17 and you really go from there.
  you are gordon freeman, so expect the unexpected.
  the game itself is ran by the source engine, 
 which in my opinion is THE best engine in the world which gives everything substance and things 
 you could do in the real world, you can do with the source engine.
  this makes for some hilarious killings but i havent had that many so i couldnt tell you about them.
 
  the stroy is what makes this game tick over. it is really deep and will keep you on the egde right 
 till the last minute.
  the guns arnt what you call super but when you get the gravity gun its a godsend. graphics are 
 good and gameplay is the best around
  i cant explain it further, you must go and buy it NOW.
  
  bit of a sidenote but, hlaf life 
 2 cannot be ran without steam, an online service which gives you all info about steam and other 
 things like downloads but you must be online to be able to get steam, and steam needs to be online 
 to install HL2, so you need broadband but if you dont already you are going to find this a bad 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Even though ive had this game for like, 3 years i have finally decided to review it, mainly just 
 because im bored and its my favorite game. In my opinion (and everyone elses i know, i know a lot 
 of people) its better then halo, way better. Half-life 2 is most likely the only game i'll ever 
 give a 10.0.... ever... It's got a great storyline and gameplay. The shotgun is fun as hell, the 
 shotgun is the main part of any game and if the shotgun sucks, the game sucks. The gravity gun 
 is also fun, picking up items and throwing them at your enemy... wheeee.
  
  The graphics are great for when it came out, and the fact that ive had it for 3 years and cant 
 stop playing it should encourage you to go out and buy it if you STILL havent got it..
  
  The only problem i have with half-life 2 is steam. i hate steam, steam sucks ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshotgunner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The story begins as you play as Gordon Freeman on a train to the Alien controlled City 17. You 
 meet most of the people from the first Half Life as well as some more. They also bring back the 
 best alien of them all: The Headcrab
  
  Gameplay: Stand FPSish with a little more Spaz (In the good way) :8
  
  Graphic: The best part 
 of the game. These graphics make real life look lame. And for a game made in 2004 (I think) :10
 
  
  Sound: The people, the guns, the aliens all sound real:9
  
  Value: Worth all my money, plus 10 bucks more.:9
  
  Tilt: Unless you want to keep your hands, 
 don't touch my game.:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wormsramongus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is definitaly the greatest Pc game that I've ever played. From the beginning portions 
 in the city to the end in the citidel the game is amazing and incredibly enthralling. The game 
 is paced incredibly well and it never becomes boring. New innovations such as the gravity gun, 
 keep the gaem from getting stale half way through like other FPS's. The graphics are incredible 
 and the HDR effects bring a striking realism to the game. Facial animations could use a little 
 work but there are no other graphical complaints. There is a wide range of weapons from the classic 
 crowbar to theropods that let you control giant antlions. The action is fast paced and there are 
 many different locales to play through including a destroyed town, a city, a huge enemy complex, 
 and beaches. The game is not terribly long clocking in at about 15-20 hours. But with the great 
 AI and the millions of ways to manipulate the physics this game has a lot of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimothyACM
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  The first Spanish conquest in the Americas was the island of Hispaniola (presently shared by Haiti 
 and the Dominican Republic) . From there, Juan Ponce de Le&oacute; n conquered Puerto Rico and Diego 
 Vel&aacute; zquez took Cuba. The first settlement on the mainland was Dari&eacute; n in Panama, settled 
 by Vasco N&uacute;&ntilde; ez de Balboa in 1512. As these Caribbean regions proved no great treasury 
 or endless supply of priceless spices, the 'disappointment' motivated further exploration, rather 
 than a serious effort to make the best of the 'virgin' colonies, a foretaste of monumental economic 
 mismanagement.
  
  The first immensely successful conquistador was Hern&aacute; n Cort&eacute; s. Between 1520 and 1521, 
 Cort&eacute; s, along with some Native American allies, conquered the mighty Aztec empire, thus 
 bringing present day Mexico under the dominion of the Spanish empire, as New Spain. Of comparable 
 importance was the conquest of the South American Inca Empire by Francisco Pizarro. Both were helped 
 by smallpox and other European plagues that weakened the native populations, for these diseases 
 were unknown in America at the time of the Spanish arrival and the native populations lacked the 
 antibodies to fight them. The diseases also killed the current leader of the Inca at the time, 
 facilitating the war that Pizarro walked into upon his arrival. Combined with far greater forces 
 of native allies, Cort&eacute; s' forces managed to besiege the Aztec capital city and destroy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xymos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally freaking awesome. From the moment your start playing you are IN the game. 
 You ARE Gordon Freeman. I haven't played many games where I actually feel the SUCK of being opressed, 
 like what's left of the human race. The action is tense and fast paced, and every firefight is 
 different. The environments make you think about your next move, and often there is more then one 
 good way of getting through an encounter. You will probably find yourself wanting to play through 
 sections of the game again just to see if you can find a better strategy to get through.
  
  The graphics in Half Life 2 are some of the best I have seen in a FPS game, and the physics engine 
 really plays well. Every little object in the world can be picked up and manipulated to some extent. 
 You can make barricades, form bridges, make stairs; all of this with what you can find around you. 
 The enemies in the game all look good and move in a believable fashion, and the gun models look 
 fantastic. The sky of the outdoor levels should also bear mentioning for looking great. I can say 
 though I have seen better water effects on my PS2, but who's being picky.
  
  The sound is just as good as the graphics, all really adding to the sense of immersion. You can 
 hear enemies talking in the next room, zombies moaning from the dark, or a eering chitter from 
 the headcrabs may be all the warning you get before you get hit. The weapons all sound good and 
 do not sound under or overpowered. Environmental ambience is there aswell, with various urban noises 
 going on while you are in the city, with propaganda screens playing 24/7 for your benefit.
  
  I personally found this game to be incredible, it doesn't hold anything back and it remains 
 satisfying through to the end, where you will want to play it through again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude475
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  After playing Half-Life 1 I thought the series couldn't get any better, boy was I wrong!
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - The game runs very smoothly &amp; maintains a flow that's very hard to describe. 
 In certain areas of the game such as Ravenholm you really feel a sense of danger and fright especially 
 when the super zombies are on hard. Also Half-Life contains some of the most intense fire fights 
 without being impossible to survive in, and with intelligent allies on your side these can get 
 very fun.
  
  Graphics 10/10 - Though the Source engine is a bit dated it blew me away when I first saw the G-Man 
 giving his speech. The addition of realistic lighting, face textures, and water can really set 
 the mood of mystery as well as danger and horror.
  
  Sound 10/10 - Like graphics, sound can really set the mood as well. The voice acting really lets 
 you feel the gravity of the situation at hand as well as learn the complex story. Since Gordon 
 doesn't have a voice of his own you feel like when other characters are talking it feels like you're 
 Gordon at times.
  
  Value 10/10 - The only problem is that the game is only 12 chapters while the first one was 19. 
 While the chapters are less they make up for this by being extremly lengthy. In total I belive 
 it has taken me about 50 hours to beat the game on hard. While the Deathmatch version wasn't originally 
 shipped with Half-Life, Counter Strike: Source is a worthy addition that gave me many insomniatic 
 nights fueled by Mountian Dew finding new ways to survive. Tilt 11/10 - From the above you can 
 see I really like this game. I believe that this game deserves the 30 something awards it has recived 
 and should be counted in the list of best shooters of all time.
  
  In closing if you have $40 stop reading this review and GET THIS GAME NOW!!! DON'T STOP FOR ANYTHING!!! 
 RUN TO THE STORE IF YOU HAVE TOO!!! Even if you don't like FPS's. Half-Life's intense firefights, 
 innovative weaponry, complex story, outstanding graphics, &amp; Counter Strike will change your 
 mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Helmond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I had very high expectations when I bought this game. I mean, we're talking about Half-Life 2. 
 The game people have been talking about since the original classic came out and there were rumours 
 about a sequel. Well, It lived up to the expectations!
  
  First thing are the graphics: these look amazing! That's it, there's simply no more one can add.
 
  
  The story is also intriguing, though there is one small catch... You won't understand what is going 
 on, without having played the original game. Because in Half-life 2, you'll visit a lot of places 
 from the first game and every piece of the story is related to that. Don't worry though, it'll 
 still be a good show.
  
  The creators of this game have found the perfect way to let you under the impression that you can 
 walk around freely and that you just happen to stumble upon the one missing clue to get any further. 
 This is very rare, since in many games you'll just walk around and you can always see this one 
 distinctive path you must follow, which off course ruins the surprise effect.
  
  And once you're finished with the single player game, we've still got the thousands of Deathmatch 
 servers all over the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kickflip1226
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  THe single player was fun. The game produced a very good story line all the way to the end. The 
 bring the puzzle aspect back in half-life2 with great use of physics. There are a few times you 
 might get stuck but its not to bad. The guns are mostly good but there are a few I think could 
 have been better without ruining the balance of the game. (i. e. the machine gun) . The voice acting 
 is by far the best I have seen in a game. The multi-player is counter-strike with the new source 
 engine. This is fun but personally I was hoping for some new levels and guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGeorge
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Half-Life 2 I was amazed. Stunned by the amazing graphics, I could barely hold 
 down the keys to keep moving. HL2 has some of the best graphics ever. The shining on metal surfaces, 
 the look on each Metro Cop. Everything just looked real. Sometimes, I prefer those graphics over 
 real life.
  
  The game's graphics are just great. Everything about anything just makes you stand in awe if you 
 have just started playing it. Clothes on people look natural, as you'd expect clothes to be. And 
 even though it's the same outfit over and over again, Valve made a good job by making excellent 
 faces on people. Urban designs are just awesome, I get the dark feeling that something is wrong 
 immediately when I get down from the train. Metro Cops look just like the evil police I want in 
 my evil rule. Zombies are downright frightening (although more gory than scary) . I still believe 
 that the Dropships are one of the coolest things ever made, in anything!
  
  Previous shooters had left me down, I was bored of Playing Counter-Strike with my friends, when 
 I noticed the HL2 icon on the screen. One of the best games I've ever played in my life.
  
  The sound in HL2 can even compare to the visuals. Every single sound from the shot of a 9mm to 
 the soaring of a Rocket Propelled Grenade, the voices and effects of the Civil Protection talking 
 to the sounds of every single vehicle they possess just makes the game that much more realistic. 
 I'd even jump on my seat by how well the sound and graphics are synchronized. The sound track is 
 pretty good, although for me it seems like a more techno version of the Doom soundtrack.
  
  Although a gamer can say that most FPS games have similar gameplay, it doesn't take a pro to feel 
 the difference in Half-Life 2. In games like Medal of Honor: Frontline, I just felt like a super 
 soldier that brutally massacred dozens of people with really bad aim. In Halo, on the contrary, 
 i got a feeling I was just another soldier. Doom 3 did scare me, but I still had the same IT BLEEDS!!! 
 SHOOT IT!!! feel to it. HL2 has a great gameplay, you really do feel like you are being persecuted 
 by an army that are losing it trying to find you. Elements are surprising, conversations are alluring, 
 especially since you don't talk in them. It is quite simply, a very good game, bordering on the 
 aspect of being a realistic simulator able of being used in Military Training.
  
  Even though it is a straight story, which does not give you several choices as to where you want 
 to go, I believe it still has replay value. You will be content with completing the game, but after 
 that, it won't be long until you're starting a new game again. There are just so many features 
 that like Resident Evil 4, you forget them, and when you play a new game it still amazes you, even 
 though you saw it already.
  
  Congratulations Valve, for a Job Well Done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_40
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  There was a feeling you used to have when you were a kid. A feeling of intense anticipation and 
 excitement experienced the night before Christmas or your last day of school before summer vacation. 
 For many people, the announcement of Half-Life 2 rekindled this rare feeling when it was first 
 announced at the 2003 E3 conference.
  
  Although one might compare Half-Life 2s completion to that of a soap opera, this game is absolutely 
 worth the setbacks. Half-Life 2 is nothing less than a revolution in the gaming industry that will 
 keep gamers busy for years to come, just as the original did.
  
  Many people predicted that Half-Life 2 would not live up to the hype that it had received. Others 
 said HL2 would be of lesser quality compared to recently released games of the genre. These predictions 
 were dead wrong. Valve faced numerous difficulties: pressure from fans and problems related to 
 the stolen source code; but they pulled through to create the best game I have ever experienced. 
 There are games, and then there is the Half-Life legacy. The level of quality and perfection in 
 this game left me in awe after completing it, something that no other game has yet to achieve. 
 Valve has taken gaming to the next level, and their years of hard work have proven the company 
 once again.
  
  After six years it is finally time to play the sequel to what has been called the greatest game 
 of all time. The story in Half-Life 2 is compelling as you find yourself in the midst of familiar 
 characters like Barney, Dr. Kleiner, and the mysterious G-Man, while also being introduced to new 
 characters such as Alyx Vance, Father Grigori, and Dr. Judith Mossman, as well as a group of people 
 Ill refer to as freedom soldiers, (who treat you like a hero) that accompany you on your mission 
 to stop a dictator-like scientist named Dr. Wallace Breen who has taken over the city. The story 
 and character development is well done but the end leaves more questions than answers. It leaves 
 quite a bit of room for more Half-Life games and Im sure we havent seen the last of Gordon and 
 the crew.
  
  Gameplay
  The familiar gameplay and interface were great things to see again, though they were tweaked to 
 allow improvements and additions. Due to the new physics system, thanks to the Havok engine, and 
 the certain properties on every level one can experience, no game has ever been this real. Half-Life 
 2 and its predecessor are simply the definition of first person shooters. Other games strive to 
 become this but Half-Life 2 blows these copycats out of the arena and asks for more. Everything 
 is tweaked and tuned to such perfection that for a moment you may forget youre playing a game. 
 When you realize how far games have evolved, you can only begin to imagine what the future might 
 hold. Valve really is on the mountaintop looking down at other gaming companies.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in Half-Life 2 are some of the best Ive seen in a game. One of the first 
 things you will notice is how large and open the maps are. Screenshots dont do the game justice, 
 you have to play the game to understand how good everything looks. Everything feels extremely lifelike, 
 especially when you look at the character models compared to the original models and then compared 
 to other games in the genre. Characters have a full range of facial expressions and their mouths 
 are in-synch with their words, while in most games characters mouths look like a loose trap door: 
 never seeming to match up correctly with the dialog. Other things you will notice are the lighting 
 and reflective surfaces, the extraordinary water, the extremely realistic sky in all of the maps, 
 and haze and clouds that arent as obvious but really add to that sense of realism.
  
  Sound
  Whether its the sound of a fly buzzing past you - one of the multiple environment sounds 
 - or the crash of distant gunfire, the sound and music in Half-Life 2 are another one of the main 
 factors that add to the incredible sense of reality. Sound in games is something that is often 
 overlooked as a minor detail; however, to make a game seem as lifelike as possible, sound is one 
 of the most important aspects. The game is filled with all kinds of noises that will both excite 
 and terrify you. The unearthly groans in Ravenholm will leave you feeling uneasy and the many types 
 of music in the game will get your blood pumping, justifying the fact that this intense FPS is 
 the complete gaming experience. Multiplayer
  Counter-Strike: Source is the multiplayer of Half-Life 2, even though this is not really the 
 case. Ill get to that, but first how does Counter-Strike: Source compare to its world famous original? 
 Its really quite amazing and has caught on very quickly. CS: Source was our first look at Valves 
 new engine, with its beta release in early August, which definitely gave frustrated fans concrete 
 evidence that the game would soon be released, something much needed at the time. Hard core Counter-Strike 
 players might have had a bit of a difficult time conforming to the new version but it seems like 
 a much needed change after relatively little change over the years (as far as graphics and models) . 
 The updated maps look absolutely spectacular compared to the older ones, as do the weapons and 
 character models. For those who are not familiar with the one-time mod turned standalone game, 
 it pits counter-terrorists against terrorist in a very deep skill-involved strategy game. The reason 
 I dont consider Counter-Strike: Source to be the only multiplayer of Half-Life 2 is of course 
 the fact that the huge mod community is in place. Many mod teams have come together since Half-Life 
 2 was first announced and when the SDK is released all of these teams will start developing their 
 mods that they have been planning for quite some time now. This is something that many people are 
 very excited about because Valve has put in place a system where mod developers can charge potential 
 customers for their mods. Even if the teams choose to charge or not they still have the potential 
 to become the next Counter-Strike or Day of Defeat.
  
  
  
  Replay Value
  As far as replay value is concerned, I can definitely see myself playing the game over again. The 
 other huge thing to acknowledge is Counter-Strike Source and all of the other mods that will be 
 released in the coming months and years. Modifications have kept Half-Life alive all this time 
 and with the new engine to work with it really gives anyone a fighting chance to make a great mod. 
 Not only that but Valve has developed a way to port old mods to the new engine which many teams 
 will be doing with the popular Half-Life 1 mods. It is just so amazing what Half-Life has done 
 to the gaming community and its something that other developers should look at when developing 
 their own games. For any games life to last over six years really shows that Valve knows what 
 they are doing.
  
  Overall
  Half-Life 2 is a masterpiece and as I mentioned earlier, nothing less than a revolution in the 
 gaming industry. It is a rare event that a game of such quality and perfection comes along. I could 
 not imagine anyone being disappointed with the game and if youre a fan of FPS games, Half-Life 
 2 is a must have. The only thing that I could possibly complain about would be that your teammates 
 get in the way once and a while. However, such a minor thing really doesnt do much to the entire 
 experience and I would not take any points off for it in the overall score. Valve Software is obviously 
 a perfectionist-type of company and has delivered a phenomenal game that has, in my opinion, exceeded 
 the hype that it was given. Half-Life 2 will keep gamers busy for years to come, just as the original 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GohanofDeath
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Half-life and it's mods have kept me gaming happily for the past couple years and I still haven't 
 gotten tired of them. Now here we have Half-life two. Does it live up to the hype? Yeah, it sure 
 does. This game keeps you on your toes with heart pumping action that never skips a beat. It has 
 so much game and replay value with its diversity of gameplay, that you can play hours on end withoyut 
 getting bored. The watercraft scene has to be one of the funniest sequences I have ever played 
 in a game before. And in the end of the game when you get an upgraded gravity gun, you feel invincible. 
 Buy this game, you'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The original Half Life was a revolutionary, much-loved FPS that was praised by everyone everywhere. 
 It had great graphics, superb AI and a brilliant and immersive storyline that took you from dingy 
 labs to alien planets. Not long after the buzz had died down for HL, people started to wonder what 
 was instore for Half Life 2. Years go by with nothing but a confirmation, and people start to get 
 uninterested. But then, a screenshot is released. Whats this? This can't be real, the graphics 
 are amazing, TOO amazing. Not long after you watch videos of cranes throwing crates into a group 
 of soldiers, demonstrating unbelievable physics... Much hype and waiting and HL 2 arrives. I immediately 
 order it off Steam an anxiously wait for the download to complete. I'm immediately in awe. The 
 game looks great, and runs as smooth as a hot knife through butter. I find myself picking up coke 
 cans and suitcases with the new physics system, staring at the incredible lighting effects as rays 
 of sunlight pass through the windowed ceiling of the train station, and generally being very, very 
 impressed. As I continue through the first level, interacting with the environment and throwing 
 rubbish at the combine soldiers, my guard is totally let down. Suddenley I'm running for my life, 
 5 or 10 soldiers with shock sticks chasing me through apartment buildings and along roofs. Bullets 
 whizz past my head and all I can do is continue to run. I find myself cornered, I have no weapons 
 and combine soldiers are closing in on me. But then, Alyx, your female sidekick, jumps into the 
 room and kicks some ass kung fu style. She leads you to Dr Klyners lab, where the plan is to teleport 
 you to Alyx's father. But the teleporter goes wrong and ends up teleporting you in all sorts of 
 places before settling on just outside the lab, in Combine territory. Its here that you are given 
 your trusty crowbar, and your trademark Half Life adventure begins. What a start to a game. Afer 
 the word go you are hooked. You immediately know that this game is going to be great, and was most 
 definetely worth the wait. I'll start with the graphics. I'm writing this at the beginning of 2007 
 and HL 2 was released late 2004 if i remember rightly. Thats at least 2 years ago that it was made. 
 To be honest, I still don't think it has been surpassed graphically. Doom 3 might technically be 
 better, but artisticly and in terms of making you go :O when looking at the graphics, I dont think 
 HL 2 has been beaten yet. Crysis may steal its thunder, but pretty much 3 years without a game 
 to beat it is impressive. The whole game looks amazing, from the realistic water effects to the 
 character models. Good graphics may not make a game good, but you can't deny that this game is 
 enjoyable to look at. Next up, the sound. Once again I was left impressed. The guns sound cool, 
 the Combine radio chatter is great and the music is top notch and sets the atmosphere brilliantly. 
 The voice acting is also good, although the protagonist says nothing at all throughout the whole 
 game in typical Half Life a style. Onto the gameplay. You will be left in awe after completeing 
 this game.
  Shooting is a joy, as it should be in FPS's, and the guns on offer are varied and fun to use, with 
 some of them being original to boot (bug bait is superb) . Levels range from zombie infested villages 
 to converted prisons that house quite a few million Combine to sandy coastlines swarming with Antlions 
 and Combine outposts. Throughout these atmospheric and genius levels you are faced with fantastic 
 set pieces and gameplay mechanics. Smart and enjoyable physics puzzles break up the action, along 
 with tense quiet moments as you slowly pass through Ravenholm or investigate an abandoned house 
 on the coast. Every level has its own feel and its own pace, each one being as great and varied 
 as the last. Of course, no game is perfect. HL 2 suffers from being ever so slightly short, however 
 I have debated with myself over and over about whether this could just be because I enjoyed it 
 so much that it just felt short. And, also, I have played this game through 3 times now and writing 
 this review is making me want to play it again, so maybe its value isn't a problem. The AI is a 
 little basic, with most Combine just standing and shooting at you and occasionally taking cover. 
 A bit of teamwork and surprise in this department wouldn't have gone a miss. Still, no other game 
 has left me so impressed, so wanting more and leaving me able to choose my favourite game EVER! 
 You earned it, Half Life 2.
  
  The Good - Best graphics ever - Addictive and explosive action - Great set pieces - Good storyline 
 The Bad - AI is kinda basic at times - Short?... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSystemLord1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 1 re-invigorated a genre that was in sore need of some inspiration. The graphics, gameplay, 
 and fact that it had a story drove it to the top of the sales charts. With mods like Counterstrike 
 and others gaining multi-player fame, the game has forever etched itself in the annals of video 
 game history. Making a sequel that lives up to the original is never an easy task, never mind making 
 one to the greatest of its genre. Thankfully, Valve undertook the task and gave us the masterpiece 
 that is Half-Life 2.
  
  Gameplay: Half-Life 2 is your standard FPS fare with a few twists thrown in. There are many puzzles 
 based off of a gun in your inventory called the Zero Point Energy Field Manipulator, or Gravity 
 Gun ,capable of picking up, and then projecting objects at high speeds regardless of weight. This 
 opens up a wide array of possibilities for evading the squads of soldiers that will pursue you. 
 Say you are in a firefight and all of a sudden ammunition runs low. You are huddled, inside a box 
 car of a train when out of the corner of your eye you spy a fire extinguisher carelessly discarded. 
 You switch to the gravity gun, pick it up, position yourself, and fire. The explosion caused is 
 enough to knock your attackers off their feet, killing some, and allowing you to make your escape. 
 Fun? You bet. Original? Oh HELL yes. The normal controls are nothing to sneeze at either. Everything 
 feels fast and responsive. The difficulty can get excessive at times, but thankfully the game never 
 becomes impossible, even at the higher levels. Learning the techniques to destroy each enemy is 
 a rewarding experience, and almost necessary if you want to advance in the game. The game play 
 of Half-Life 2 is second to none.
  
  Graphics: Half-Life 2, like its predecessor, is a front runner in the graphics department. The 
 Source engine is a masterpiece. Realistic shaders and pixels help to bring the environments to 
 life in a way never before thought possible in video games. The physics are fantastic. Source is 
 based off of an improved version of HAVOK physics, some of the most realistic of all time. The 
 bolt crossbow is one of my favorite weapons for showing off the physics in this game. Hit an enemy 
 just right and watch their body fly back and become pegged onto a wall, limbs flailing and firing 
 with nerve synapses. It's stunning, and creepy at the same time. With water that looks so good 
 you could drink it, and buildings so realistic they could be confused for photos. Half-Life 2's 
 graphics are in a league of their own. For a true treat, download the Lost Coast expansion and 
 go into the Chapel. Sit and just marvel at the sun coming in through the windows, and thank God 
 for HDR technology.
  
  Sound: Never skipping a beat, Valve creates a wondrous soundtrack for this game. The game gets 
 very creepy at times due to the overall atmosphere, graphics alone cannot accomplish this level 
 of fright from a game set in the daytime, you need convincing sound. The enemy soldiers sound fantastic, 
 their voices all wonderfully bland and monotone. They really fit what one would think enemies like 
 these would sound like. The coastal portions of the game treat you to rushing water and seagulls 
 across all levels. All of the guns sound great. The sound in this game, while not as easily memorable 
 as the rest, is yet another in the long list of high points.
  
  Value: As the sequel to what is largely considered the greatest FPS ever made, Half-Life 2 is a 
 remarkable achievement on its own. A story in an FPS is something that most dream of. The exploits 
 of Gordon Freeman and his efforts to stop the Combine will leave you aching for more, yet strangely 
 satisfied at the end after what is one of the greatest final levels in shooter history.
  
  Tilt: I enjoyed this game, everything made sense to me. The characters were believable, the environments 
 tortured and beautiful. Everything Valve has created is wonderful. The modding community is in 
 full force for this game and it shows. Half-Life 2 has done to shooting what its sequel did so 
 long ago. Revolutionizing a severely limited genre not once, but twice, puts Valve into the book 
 as one of the greatest developers of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_is_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 has been a game that has long been in the works since around 1999 I believe, just recently 
 coming out in November of 2004 most people would wonder what would take such a long time to release 
 a sequel to a game. Anyone who has played through the first half life and the expansions can safely 
 say half life 2 needed to be more than just a sequel because it was in fact going to be the sequel 
 to the greatest game ever made... so how do you make a sequel to one of (if not) the greatest game 
 ever made? Thats what VALVe software wanted to know, and its very safe to say they figured it out.
 
  
  One of the first things you will notice when you start up the game is the graphics, if there is 
 anything that needs noting about half life 2 it would be infact the graphics. The world visually 
 shines in your eyes as if you were there, the amazing displays of lighting and textures will have 
 even the most of gaming critics in awe.
  
  This next thing that need noting is something you really dont get to get a full experience until 
 around the 6th chapter of the game. The Pyshics are one of the coolest things to come yet in this 
 game. everything in the world reacts the way it would in real life, you can pick up garbage and 
 toss it along with signs, tires, and barrels.
  
  Something I learned to respect about the game early on was infact the sound quality of the game. 
 Gunfire and explosions have never sounded so amazing its almost like you can hear each bullet leave 
 the gun and sink into an enemy when fired. The Soundtrack is more than enough to get your heart 
 pounding and the tension in your hands as you fire RPG shots at a strider.
  
  The level design is outstanding, you get a very good mix of unique/fun/shoot them up/blast your 
 way levels as well as puzzle problems as you progress. Some might say that the design is just more 
 of shoot the enemy but it has never been more fun with the unique variety of guns Valve has supplied 
 the player with.
  
  10/10
  -Andrew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmandes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  A great first person shooter that gave raise to a classic, and that classic as we all come to know 
 will be counter-strike. However, as a player play along further in the game, he will get gradually 
 be bored of the shooting in a role playing game. The appeal of the counter -strike was in fact 
 in the mutliplayer option of engaging other player rather than the predicablr AI. Otherwise, the 
 graphic and user interface is fairly well done to make the game rather user friendly, and it will 
 be a good introduction to player who would like to learn some very very basic stuff about counter 
 strike without having to go into a killing field of experienced player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  A very enjoyable game.
  
  Pros
  Beautiful detailed surroundings with top notch graphics, excellent sound &amp; great variety in 
 game play. Character acting was very well done.
  
  Cons
  Very linear game play. Storyline somewhat lacking, especially at the end: Did I accomplish anything 
 ?
  
  Graphics
  The amazing detail put into the environment really makes you stop and enjoy the scenery. Lighting 
 was done exceptionally well, and the day &amp; night cycle incorporated over the games events was 
 done nicely. The game engine handles outdoor graphics exceptionally well &amp; there is plenty 
 of both indoor and outdoor action.
  
  Sound
  Great work here also, both foreground, voice acting &amp; background noise. Only thing missing 
 here was probably additional music, but that may have reduced the realism (there is music but in 
 just a few places &amp; usually just prior to some action taking place) .
  
  AI
  Both enemy and friendly AI was well done but could of been improved, the way enemy ships can target 
 your missiles and shot them done was pretty neat. Friendly AI was ok in that they follow you well 
 &amp; would often give you hints of what to do next, but often they get in the way and/or set off 
 traps that end up taking out your entire squad.
  
  Game play
  Very enjoyable, found the vehicle sections (Buggy &amp; Speedboat) to be the most fun. The initial 
 part of the game also deserves a mention as it builds the games setting nicely with all of its 
 propaganda. The character Dr. Breen was also very well done, especially how he backed up all of 
 his peoples actions have meaningful &amp; well thought-out reasoning, its great to just sit and 
 listen to his rhetoric at times. Weapon variety was okay, although for combat found myself using 
 the shotgun pretty exclusively &amp; switching to grenades and rocket launcher when required.
 
  
  Overall
  Great FPS, with enough variety to keep things interesting. Only one crash during the entire campaign 
 so game is quite stable. Definitely recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvuti12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  The game is good. It has good graphics, good storyline, good physics and great AI. But i didn't like 
 it so much because almost whole game was inside. I would enjoyed more levels like water hazard, route 
 canal, point intrestation (or some thing like that) , Highway 17 and sand traps.
  
  The one thing what made me to play this game was the famous gravity gun. What can lift things, pull 
 things and shoot them. And it has good graphics, i don't have good computer but this game runs smooth 
 with medium.
  
  Half life 2 is still a good game, i recommend you to buy it. It would be perfect if it would have 
 more outside city and not so much inside action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprigain
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a game we have all been waiting for for a long time. It is virtually perfect. The 
 single player is extremely engaging and the stunning graphics add to the realism of this game. 
 The gameplay is so smooth and it transitions well from scene to scene. The physics engine is very 
 impressive as well. Once you play through once, you will play it over and over and over again. 
 Ive beaten the game about 4 times and it still greatly entertains me. In this game, you make good 
 use of the environment around you, which plays an important part. Oh yeah, and the music is awesome. 
 As for the multiplayer, I have one word... amazing. There are so many different mods out there for 
 half life 2. Each mod is unique in its own way and they all use the same great physics engine. 
 Games such as Counter Strike: Source, Day of Defeat: Source, and third-party games such as Garry's 
 Mod, are just some of the available mods. My personal favorite is Garry's mod, which is a sandbox 
 mod, meaning you can literally do whatever the hell you want. You can build anything from vehicles, 
 houses, tools, guns, and pose any character from the game in whatever poses you want. Half life 
 2 opens up so many possibilities for the gaming world and the mod community. I highly recommend 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kattonyan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Gordon is back on Earth after bouncing around in Xen like he did in Half-Life 1, and it's brilliant. 
 The game begins with Gordon arriving at a train station in a dull city called City 17 where the 
 a bit mysterious combine forces have taken over and the conditions for the humans living there 
 aren't really the best, but with Gordon present, things are about to change.
  
  Half-Life 2 can't really be reviewed with the classic review-model, it doesn't score so high because 
 the story, or the graphics, or the sound or the physics. No, it scores so high because all those 
 parts are perfectly integrated with each other. The gameplay isn't just about nice graphics with 
 some cool physics pasted onto it. It's about having that nice looking graphics perfectly combined 
 with the physics and every entity producing that perfect sound. All this, with a story that's told 
 from a perfect dramaturgical point of view.
  
  Ah, the story. The story in Half-Life 2 is often one of the more criticized parts of the game, 
 I agree that it might not be the best story. But you could probably make an apple falling from 
 a tree the best story ever with some appropriate dramaturgy. And that's exactly how it is in Half-Life 
 2, the story is told in such a way it doesn't really matter how simple it is, it keeps you busy, 
 entertained, it gives you a goal and sometimes gives you that feeling which only a really good 
 movie does. It's perfectly fine.
  
  About graphics, Half-Life 2 has some really neat graphics with high quality textures, detailed 
 characters, HDR and the best animations I've seen in a game, especially the face animations are 
 incredible, the characters raise eyebrows, smile and show reactions to things happening around 
 them in such a perfect way it's almost unbelievable it's a game. It doesn't just look good, it 
 behaves good. Having the graphics combined with the physics in a perfect manner doesn't just give 
 objects the ability to fall to the ground. Objects in the world can be weapons, parts of numerous 
 puzzles, obstacles or just tin cans which that evil combine soldier forces you to pick up.
  
  Wrapping this all together with some perfectly calibrated controls, a huge mod scene and some 
 really interesting characters makes this one of the best shooters ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KdogPS2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most amazing games i have ever played. To start we will look at the graphics. 
 The graphics in this game combined with the physics are by far the best of its time. Every object 
 you see, you can interact with. This makes the game more real, and to some degree too real enviroment. 
 The game also ahs an amazing story line that keeps to captivated and wanting to play more and more 
 so you can find out what happens next. The mexhanics are perfected. Running, jumping, killing, 
 works flawlessly and there are no bugs that i have found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmandude
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have this game already, GET IT. Is it that hard to realize you are missing out on 
 an awesome game? The graphics kick ass, the sound is great, the story is good. The physics are 
 realistic, and that, combined with the Gravity Gun, makes for one of the best parts of the game: 
 manipulating crap with the Gravity Gun. Throw blocks at people. spin blades at zombie torsos. Pick 
 up this game at the store now. Or even pick up a live grenade and toss it back at the guy who threw 
 it at you. The game also ships with Counter Strike Source, which is one of the best online games 
 around, but that is a different game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  It's hard to believe that, prior to Half-Life 2, Valve had really made only one game. Of course, 
 it was a masterpiece. Half-Life single-handedly reinvented the first-person shooter (FPS) , putting 
 the emphasis on cinematic pacing and complete immersion in the experience. As a result, it paved 
 the way for many of the outstanding FPSs that have followed. And while there was little question 
 that there would eventually be a sequel, no one could have imagined the long and torturous development 
 process that led to Half-Life 2. Nevertheless, Half-Life 2 has arrived. And, in many ways, this 
 big-budget sequel does what it sets out to do: Half-Life 2 is a technically amazing, sharply honed 
 FPS that pulls off all the tricks that made Half-Life such a beloved experience. With that said, 
 many of those tricks feel more than a bit familiar now, and the game itself is saddled with a disappointing 
 story. Still, that doesn't stop Half-Life 2 from being a very impressive and engaging shooter, 
 and a faithful follow-up to one of the greatest PC games of all time. It's time to once again take 
 up your submachine gun and save humanity
  
  You once again assume the role of Gordon Freeman, the theoretical physicist and dimension-hopping 
 commando who saved the world from an alien invasion at the end of Half-Life. Or did he? Half-Life 
 2 starts you off facing the infamous G-Man, the mysterious blue-suited character from the first 
 game. At the end of Half-Life, the G-Man offered you a choice: work for him or die. Since there 
 would be no sequel if you chose the latter, Half-Life 2 assumes you chose the former, and you start 
 the game in a train entering City 17 for your introduction into this new world. City 17 is a run-down 
 urban centre that's the equivalent of the Warsaw ghettos during World War II, but instead of Jews 
 being rounded up to live in City 17, it's all the remnants of a defeated humanity. Half-Life 2 
 takes place an untold number of years after the Black Mesa incident, but it's clear that much has 
 changed. A mysterious enemy known as the Combine has conquered the planet and installed a human 
 puppet government to enforce its rule. Black-clad security forces patrol the streets, while propaganda 
 blares endlessly from omnipresent video screens. If there's one thing that Valve does extremely 
 well, it's capture a sense of atmosphere -- this vision of a dystopian police state is chillingly 
 effective. But you won't spend a lot of time soaking in the scene before you're thrust into the 
 struggle to defeat the Combine and free humanity. As soon as the shooting begins, you'll join an 
 essentially nonstop battle that will last the remainder of the game. Like the original, Half-Life 
 2 is presented as a nearly seamless experience -- you play entirely from Gordon Freeman's perspective, 
 there are no cutscenes or perspective changes to take you out of the moment, and are there no narrative 
 jumps that skip ahead in time. (At least, there are none from your perspective.) There aren't many 
 long loading times to interrupt the flow of the game, as all the levels are discreetly broken into 
 sections, and when you transition from one section to another, there's only a slight pause for 
 the new section to load (at least, there wasn't on our high-end PC) . Put it all together and the 
 game's single-player campaign, which will probably take you between 15 and 20 hours to complete, 
 comes off as a very long day in the extraordinary life of Gordon Freeman. In case of alien invasion, 
 find Gordon Freeman and break glass
  
  The original Half-Life was highly cinematic, the virtual equivalent of starring in your own blockbuster 
 sci-fi action movie. Who could ever forget the first time a headcrab leapt out at you from a dark 
 corner? Or the moment when the commando tossed a satchel charge into the sewer pipe you were hiding 
 in? The movie analogy is apt, not only because Half-Life 2 packs a few cinematic moments of its 
 own, but also because, like most movie sequels, it plays it safe and doesn't deviate much from 
 its storied predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta_bandit
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Once again you are Gordan Freeman with you're trusty old crowbar trying to save humanity one alien 
 at a time.
  With an array of weapons including a pistol, machine gun, shotgun, and the gravity gun. Ohhh the 
 gravity gun, you can spend hours just looking for stuff to pick up and blast a mile away. With a 
 lot of cool and crazy weapons you know there's going be a bunch of bad ass motha's trying to take 
 you down. From gory walking corpses to 30 feet tall robot spiders. There's a lot of variety when 
 it comes to enemies. Once and a while you get to drive a vehicle in a first person view, the vehicles 
 range from hover crafts to off road buggies, there all really fun to drive. Moments in these vehicles 
 can be intense, from smashing in to enemies, or dodging hell fire from enemy helicopters. The environments 
 in the game are gritty and futuristic. From abandon towns to bug infested beach's, don't leave 
 home without you're shotgun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  I bought both Half Life 2 and the Prima Official Game Guide, after renting the game from Gamefly. 
 I enjoyed the game so much when I rented it, I just had to have it.
  This is what a First Person Shooter Game should look like.
  Lots of action, lots of fun and the 
 ability to play not only a strategic game but a hunt and gun fight if that is what you want.
  I would suggest strategic both the game and the Game Guide at the same time. There are hints in 
 the guide that will eliminate a lot of Look and See type of play. I use the Guide when I am not 
 sure what is the next play.
  The graphics are good, and the game play is great if you a real First Person Shooter fan, like 
 I am.
  This a great game for anyone who likes a real shoot em' up game. Well worth getting.
  Everyone 
 should play this game. I rate it a 10 all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2, although not as ground breaking as the original game, is still a pretty spectacular 
 play. What makes the game so enjoyable to play is its likeness to a film, with so many great set 
 pieces, non-stop action and great voice acting, the game really feels like a trip to the cinema. 
 Couple this together with great graphics and a spectacular physics engine and you have yourself 
 a winning formula.
  
  Half Life 2 has not messed with a winning formula, much to the pleasing of its many fans and critics. 
 There are many recognizable enemies and weapons from the original Half Life such as the infamous 
 headcrab, the infuriating barnacle and the so satisfying crowbar. The gameplay, therefore, is recognizable, 
 simple and easy to get used to but different in its own right. There are plenty of puzzles to split 
 up the shooting and lots of driving sections to dazzle the eyes and mind alike. What really stands 
 out from the crowd however is the amazing physics engine, if it can happen in real life, chances 
 are it can happen in Half Life 2.
  
  Examples of the great physics engine are all around you as you play; there are no longer barrels 
 that do not move when shot at and invincible wooden fences to cower behind, the barrels will fall 
 over if shot with something powerful and the fences will tear apart  and not just from grenades 
 and the like, enough pistol shots can shatter wood too.
  
  Seeing all this without scripted sequences can be truly dazzling, its very satisfying in an intense 
 fire fight to see perfect rag-doll when enemies go down and the scenery falling apart around you. 
 This game is truly worthy to be called the best first person shooter ever madethough I wont perhaps 
 go that far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shemnoel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  half life 2 is the best FPS game ive ever played. it has realy cool AWESOME graphics. blowing zombies 
 with shotguns at the first half life and now at half life 2 the shot gun blasts the headcrabs out 
 of the zombies heads. the weapons are cool too. you have your trusty crowbar, shot  
 gun, machine gun etc. you alsow have a side kick here at half life 2 its the daughter of your old 
 lab mate. and she has a pet robot named DOG that has a gravity gun at its hands... all in all this 
 game realy ROOOCKSSS!!! its the best in the world i Realy Recomend this to all FPS Players out 
 there and Fans of the old Half Life... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuker_no1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This is a very, very good game. Probably the best shooter I've played yet.
  At the point of its release, the graphics were probably the best of any games, textures surpassing 
 anything seen.
  The textures look amazing, and the engine supports a lot of mapping techniques, normal mapping, 
 specular mapping, flow mapping etc etc.
  The game probably has the best water seen in a game even to this date! Though you can complain 
 about 1 thing there. It is just a flat texture. But the game would have been a lot more demanding 
 if it had been a soft body object. Particle systems are very good, smoke and fire really comes 
 to life with the source engines advanced features.
  Very good and engaging story, you want to play the SP campaign many many times...
  The sounds 
 are incredibly life-like, high quality, and the voice acting is the best of ANY GAME up TO THIS 
 DATE.
  The bad: Shadowing system could have been better. even though the shadows are soft, some object 
 don't cast shadows at all. Sometimes you would see shadows being casted through walls.
  The AI is not the best. The game is very easy, almost like a sucky casual gamer could finish the 
 hard difficulty, without much trouble.
  Some things could be hard to understand, if you've not played the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game, the first one I picked up for my new pc and I wasn't disappointed. It can with 
 cs: s and hl1 so that was nice as well. The characters are very nice. They are very detailed, animated 
 very nicely, have believable voice acting, and arent annoying. Well they are kind of annoying on 
 your third time through and stuff, but that could be said for most games. The graphics are really 
 nice and so are the physics. It gets boring at times and the vehicle parts are completely dull 
 but the fights against the combine are excellent, especially in the prison area. The story is cool 
 because its quite open ended and begun which I like. The game is semi-long but thats mainly because 
 of all the traveling and conversation parts. In all, pick up this game if you are a fps fan. I 
 comes with the excellent multiplayer game counter strike and the entertaining hl2: deathmatch, its 
 win win baby. Oh and one for the bad strokes-the loading times are semi-frequent at at times are 
 much longer than they should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2048
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. Personally, I prefer less intense shooters like Halo or Battlefield 2, 
 but Half-Life 2 just blew me away. I'm in the middle of playing this game and I just love it. It 
 would be nicer if it was a tiny bit easier, and you weren't alone almost the whole game. But otherwise, 
 great weapons, great graphics, great AI. I love it. Get this game, its absolutely amazing. Made 
 for shooter lovers. So if you have time and money, there is no excuse for not having this awesome 
 game. I love, love, love, love, love, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashface
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  This game is the best shooter I've played. The environments are incredible and the play is very 
 well executed. It does have a few flaws. Some of the puzzles can be a little tough but if you take 
 the time and experiment, you will procede. The story is a bit vague and the ending is lacking. 
 The AI is weak and the weaponry is nothing great... with the exception of the accelerated gravity 
 gun. This thing lets you use corpses as projectiles. I would have liked a larger variety of enemies 
 and more punch in the weapons. Anyway, even with these flaws I have to say that this game is incredible 
 and executed wonderfully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  We waited for a long time for the next game in an amazing series of games, and the wait was definitely 
 worth it. Half-Life 2 came, was played and succeeded being one of the best games ever. The game 
 takes graphics, face detail, realistic physics, sound to a way higher level than you've ever seen. 
 Take your seat and read my review:
  
  Once again, you play as the anomalous materials scientist Gordon Freeman. In the first Half-Life, 
 Gordon was given a choice by the mysterious G-Man, to either work for him or die. You start the 
 game with the G-Man standing in front of you (this means you chose to work for him) . After talking 
 to you, he disappears like his presence was an illusion. Then you're standing in small train to 
 a city called City 17. Earth has been invaded by an alien race called the Combine, and your job 
 is to help the rebels on Earth against the Combine. The gameplay in Half-Life 2 has some new extraordinary 
 content in it. We'll take it from the top. There has been added new realistic physics to the new 
 Half-Life. It's pretty popular in similar first-person shooter games these days, but Half-Life 
 2's physics is really something special. To shoot an enemy Combine soldier in the head with a Magnum 
 gives you a totally new feeling. They are simply blown away by the blast. With the new physics, 
 you are capable of lifting things and throw them, but only small objects such as cans, bottles 
 and boxes.
  The weapons in Half-Life 2 are both high-tech and old-school. Some of the weapons are almost the 
 same as in the original game. As your signature weapon you have the crowbar as a standard melee 
 weapon. You also have the shotgun, machine gun, pistol, crossbow but now you shoot with heated 
 metal sticks and many more. Of course there has been added new weapons in you arsenal. You can 
 now possess a Standard Issue Pulse Rifle. Its great for taking out foes and secondary fire is a 
 plasma ball that bounces, killing everything it touches except some larger foes. Next is a Pheropod (Bug 
 Bait) . This unique weapon allows you to control Ant Lions  a new enemy alien. The third new weapon 
 is the coolest weapon ever seen in a game; The Gravity Gun. The Gravity Gun is an experimental 
 weapon that allow you to lift heavier things and throw them back at enemies. The Gravity Gun is 
 also a good puzzle solver too. The most unique thing about this weapon, is that has unlimited ammo. 
 You can use it as much as you want and kill foes with boxes, rocks, barrels, anything you want 
 to and of course it can only lift a limited amount of things.
  
  The graphics is probably the best thing about the game. It's simply breathtaking and stunning to 
 watch. The character faces in HL2 is absolutely incredible lifelike to look at. A character face 
 has over 40 movement muscles, this makes this very lifelike. Otherwise the surroundings are also 
 very great. In the vehicle sequences there's a lot of territory to look at, such as water and mountains, 
 it's absolutely beautiful. Other models such as weapons, decals and enemies is very well done too. 
 Remember, you have to get your video card up to date, otherwise you can't really see the beauty 
 in the game. Lighting and explosions is a remarkable thing, but the explosions could have been 
 more varied. As for lighting, if you look up in the sky and at the sun, you're realistic blinded. 
 It looks stunning. Like the previous Half-Life games there is not any cut scenes, since Gordon 
 never utters a word. But somehow this doesn't affect the game's story, like I think it did to Grand 
 Theft Auto 3 (read my review) . The sound is kick ass in the gaming industry. The first thing I 
 noticed, is the Hollywood quality voice acting, it's truly a very remarkable thing in Half-Life 
 2. The script is filled with intense action and generous humour and so forth. Otherwise, the weapon 
 and explosive sounds is in my opinion not something new. The isn't any remarkable sound effects. 
 But there is a few. The gravity gun have some good moments. The enemies is like the voice acting... 
 GREAT! The Combine soldiers speaks English with each other or via radio. The other enemy aliens 
 or zombies sound a bit different, but better in Half-Life 2. The regular slow moving zombie, is 
 now screaming when on fire, like it's in excruciating pain. Other enemies as the headcrabs sounds 
 the same, but all the others are very life-like.
  
  The value of the game is also good, the game contains 14 levels. Some of them are large outdoor 
 levels; like the vehicle sequences, and other levels are indoors  smaller areas. These levels 
 provide you with a lot of gameplay, you can play for weeks even after you've finished the game. 
 Then you are left wanting more of the good stuff  blowing up and killing the Combine and zombie 
 infested areas. Conclusion  Half-Life 2 is probably one the best games ever made. When you're 
 done with the game, you can't wait to play the other Episodes. It's an remarkable production that 
 I highly recommend to everyone! Sincerely Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reino6
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the Half-Life very much back in time. I waited the Half-Life 2 most of all games. And 
 when i got it i was satisfied. When the blarin about Half-Life began in internet i started already 
 waiting. Then i saw some sneak-peeks, and i loved it. When it finally came i didnt have a computer 
 what could play it normally. When i got it one day i though right away to HL2.
  Compared to Doom3 and F. E. A. R. the graphics and gameplay is the best. I like how the characters 
 move in HL2, and it`s not so scary to compared to Doom3. You don`t have to walk in the dark rooms 
 all the time. Sound is also good. A very versatile game.
  And of course the story is great. You can see some old friends from black mesa and a new ones. 
 The movement and being of the characters embroils you truly in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junk56
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing in every single way possible. There is no first person shooter i have ever 
 played in my entire life that has accomplished so much in just 1 game. The environments are varied, 
 the gameplay is fantastic, and there is just so much stuff to do it really feels like you're in 
 the game.
  
  My favorite part is that the graphics are 100% optimized so any low end i mean VERY low end compuiters 
 can run this game and still look great. The graphics are amazing, no other first person shooter 
 looks this great and feels this great from what i've played. Sure far cry was a good game for its 
 time but this game seriously makes you feel like you're in the game, its amazing.
  
  The musical score is nonexistent but its for the good of this game. THere are parts where the music 
 starts playing while you' [re in a gunfights and man, the music gets you pumped up and really to 
 blow the crap out of everybody, very enjoyable. The dialogue is simply amazing, there are no flaws 
 in the script and the voice acting is 100% believable. I mean, the storyline for a first person 
 shooter is crazy.
  
  For your information, when you play this game, it feels liek you're in a whole different world. 
 If you have a PC and like any type of action game, pick this one up right now because you will 
 NEVER regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofshapeir
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  The original Half-Life was one of the greatest shooters to come on the PC. It brought an excellent 
 narrative, non-stop thrills, and great game play to the masses. It's legacy has inspired tons of 
 FPS games alike.
  
  Now, Half-Life 2, the sequel, proves that Valve can recreate the game and make it even better than 
 it was before. Does it stand up to the hype?
  
  Yes. Yes it does.
  
  Half-Life 2 looks just amazing. The characters are a true example of this. The expressions that 
 they don believe you to think that they are real people; throw a can at their head, and they'll 
 get frustrated and furrow their eyebrows. When they are nervously talking about the oppressive 
 government (known as the combine) , they look scared and frightful, their eyes wide and hands in 
 pockets. The physics are even better, though. In the half-point of the game, you get the Gravity 
 Gun, a nifty little tool that you can use to hurl crates, barrels, shards of metal, even human 
 bodies (in the later levels) at your foes. You can actually beat the whole game without using any 
 of the other weapons, which is very cool. The bad part here is that the levels are very linear, 
 and you can find yourself asking, WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO DO NOW!? , but this is not a very big problem.
 
  
  The musical score does seem rather non-existent, but the voice acting is great. You never hear 
 the main character (Gordon Freeman) talk at all, but the other characters talk well.
  
  If you have a PC or Xbox, buy this game. It's probably the best FPS I have ever played, and I'm 
 sure you will get a kick out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokmeister
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  I have completed the game for 75% (second time that you meet the gorgeous Alex at the train station) . 
 After I enter the elevator the game crashes!!!
  
  After following the FAQ from Steam it still crashes. I updated the video card drivers, disabled 
 all services, installed all updates etc. But it made no difference.
  
  The last thing that I am trying to do is a reinstall. If that doesn't work I will reset my Score 
 for this game to 1....
  
  This will also make me to reconsider buying Episode 1 or any other games from Steam. I guess with 
 PC games you have to accept the occasional bug. But it is pretty annoying that I cannot complete 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterbones
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Half-Life 2's gameplay is really great. First, the single-player campaign is really varied 
 and exciting. During it, you get to battle it up in places like Ravenholm, City 17, on the route 
 to Eli's lab, and on the beaches leading to Nova Prospekt. Second, Half-Life 2's physics system 
 is awesome. In some of the puzzles during the campaign, you have to use the game's physics in order 
 to complete them. The ragdolls add a lot to the fun of the game as well. Half-Life 2 also has a 
 multiplayer game called Half-Life 2 Deathmatch, which is able to waste some time, but it is not 
 that great. There is also great replayability in the campaign, so this game will last you for a 
 while.
  
  GRAPHICS: The Source engine has phenomenal graphics. The water in the game has realistic-looking 
 reflections and refractions of things around it. The shadows are good, but they don't conform to 
 lights around. Instead, they just cast a shadow from the sunlight. There are lots of shines on 
 objects like your guns, tile floors, and metal objects, and they look really realistic. The characters 
 that you talk to in the game have the most realistic-looking faces in any game I have seen. The 
 lip-sync is perfect and the expressions they make add a lot when they talk. Overall, the graphics 
 are the best I have seen so far in any game.
  
  SOUND: Half-Life 2's sounds are really good, but not anything too special. The voice acting is 
 awesome, along with the weapon's sounds and the music. The game's music goes with the mood really 
 well, which adds to the atmosphere.
  
  VALUE: Half-Life 2 alone has a lot to offer, and will keep you busy for quite a while. When you 
 get bored with the game, you can try the Source SDK, which allows you to make your own maps. You 
 can pretty much do anything you want with the maps you make, but some of the parts can be confusing. 
 There is also a Face Poser in the SDK, which lets you make your own scenes in which you can record 
 your voice and lip-sync it with the in-game characters. When you mix the maps and scenes together, 
 you can have tons of fun altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I was undecided about getting Half-Life 2 because it looked like it may be scary or something and 
 im not into horror games. Well I am glad I got over that because not only is Half-Life 2 not scary, 
 it is great fun. First of all, you start with a Crowbar, which most games don't include. I won't 
 go through all the weapons which would spoil the fun, but I will say that all of them are great 
 and none of them make others totally obsolete. The game is a good length, about 10-20 hours depending 
 how you play and how good you are. If you like a FPS with a mixture of simple but challenging puzzles, 
 driving, and all out battles, then this is the game for you. Half-Life 2 is great and you will 
 at least play through the game 3 times! Other than the single player, depending on the version 
 you buy, it includes deathmatch and counterstrike source or others. Get this game if you have any 
 interest in the FPS genre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  I've been busy with World of Warcraft for quite some time since it's release and thus have waited 
 until now to get Half Life 2. I played all of the Half Life one games over and over because of 
 it's addictive gameplay and fun storyline. Half Life 2 returned me to that blissful world once 
 again only this time the graphics and physics were much more spectacular and the story drew me 
 in close and held on tight as it carried me through the experience.
  
  Half Life 2 has what I like to call a linear storyline where the game leads you (drags you) through 
 the content presenting you with puzzles, opponents, and areas to navigate. But Half Life 2 is so 
 well designed that it doesn't feel linear at all. There are so many worldly objects to control 
 and break and throw and the area around you is so finely crafted that you don't feel like you are 
 in a game. The storyline and the gameplay suck you in and make you forget about everything around 
 you. There is nothing I love more than getting lost in a game and forgetting about everything in 
 the real world. 
  
  The graphics engine for this game is simply fantastic. I was a little afraid that my soon to be 
 replaced (with my first build) Dell desktop wouldn't handle these fine graphics but the engine 
 is extremely efficient. Granted my desktop is no slow poke but it only received a 3D Mark score 
 of 1260 with my graphics card overclocked. Yet Half Life 2 ran smooth as silk with high (wide screen) 
 resolution and some filtering options turned on. Granted some of the big explosions lagged a bit 
 but they were not bad enough to hinder my gameplay. I am very sensitive to frame rates (and latency 
 for online games) so I would know if it wasn't up to snuff.
  
  I was very pleased to see many new faces as well as old faces in the cast of characters. I was 
 also glad to see more variation as well between characters as well as very realistic movement and 
 speech. While playing this game you begin to actually care about the characters in this game because 
 they respond to you and your actions so well with a wide array of facial expressions and very top 
 notch voice acting.
  
  The difficulty was very nice. Normal difficulty was my preferred setting because I don't like easy 
 setting with the computer helping me aim. I also don't like the feel of hard setting where the 
 enemies have large amounts of hit points and take an unrealistic amount of bullets to the chest 
 before dying.
  
  All in all this is a MUST HAVE for anybody who has played the first Half Life and if you enjoy 
 story based first person shooter games it is a great addition to your collection. I also find that 
 Half Life 2 is much like a movie only you are the main character so even if you don't have much 
 experience with computer games but love movies this is a great place to start your gaming career. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I really tried to be critical in rating this game, but I really couldn't give it any less than 
 a 10 given the categories I had to choose from. If I had a Multiplayer, Community, or Modifications 
 section to click on, perhaps, because those are about the only ways this game fails. Even the original 
 Half-Life had a horrible community filled with absolute idiots. And modifications like Counter-Strike 
 that they may as well have called Tumor: Source. The game is just not made for multiplayer. The 
 Fire-Cone system is inconsistent and only fit for a single player experience, the random bullet 
 points within a circle around where you aim is skill depriving and ridiculous. That said, lets 
 get on with the deliciousness of this game.
  
  It's really hard for any company to make a game revolutionary like Half-Life, then repeat the act 
 of revolution with the sequel to the game all over again, but they really pulled it off. The Source 
 engine is flexible and beautiful, and will set a standard for what seems like a long time to come 
 with the ability to add and change it freely and easily. The story, the characters, the graphics, 
 the gameplay. All of it makes this game truely immersive and in the end absolutely amazing, and 
 dare I say perfection . If you haven't played this game, then I have to ask you why you even have 
 Windows installed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 913Pantera
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  I was first introduced to Half Life 2 while at my friends house who's stepdad had bought it for 
 himself as kind of a little hobbie. He had been computer gaming for a little over 10 years now. 
 When I first played I was stunned my the amazing graphics and quality of textures. I was used to 
 console quality (which in this case is poor compared to HL2) and hadn't experienced anything like 
 it.
  First off, the story line is awesome, the game never gets boring. Heck, I wish it would've never 
 ended! Along with the awesome gameplay you also have the characters that you will later idol. Along 
 with the Counter Strike Source multiplayer and Half Life 2 Deathmatch, This is the best bang for 
 your buck! If you don't have this game I suggest you go out and get it.
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LieutenantDuran
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Awesome graphics and fun puzzles and game play. But short length makes the game feel unfinished. 
 Still highly recommended though. Sound as well as graphics add memorable moments to the game. There 
 are some very visceral scenes and neat and creative looking enemies, and intersting story line 
 and massive gun fight higlighted by original music. For FPS games, this is a must play game as 
 it introduces various real-time stratagy situations throughout the course of the game that makes 
 it much more deep then your ordinary FPS.
  
  Awesome graphics and fun puzzles and game play. But short length makes the game feel unfinished. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dertinmann
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Let&acute; s get one thing straight from the get go: HL2 universe is awesome, so awesome it hurts...
 
  ... one problem though: Half Life 2 is not the full game as you&acute; d expect. We know that now, 
 did not when it was released.
  So tell me: how would you have felt if the first HL went only up to the marines coming in and you 
 didn&acute; t know additional episodes were coming? You&acute; d say it&acute; s short, lacks variation, 
 just dull and generally fails to entertain you.
  
  Well, this is exactly the problem with HL2 and good thing I didn&acute; t write this review when 
 I played it the first time: I would have sawed it at its knees! Now the HL2 universe IS: large, 
 immersive, varied, intense... probably moreso than the original! But this is HL2 the game we&acute; re 
 talking about, not the game universe, so that&acute; s what is reviewed.
  
  GFX &amp; SFX: 9
  Do I need say more: it&acute; s Source! However it just manages to be among 
 the best, I expected it to be far superior to anything else. Still, the audiovisual enjoyment is 
 there no doubt about it!
  
  Gameplay &amp; review tilt: 6
  All in all it is rather understated but it manages to pump in some action. The problem is that 
 it is not varied.
  
  Value: 1
  Let&acute; s face it, you are not getting your moneys worth! Just compare the percieved size of 
 HL2 against HL and you know what I mean. Plus, with todays advancements you would have expected 
 it to be even bigger and more varied than HL! Succesors always need to measure up to higher expectations, 
 it&acute; s that simple otherwise you&acute; re just repeating yourself. To me HL2 is nothing but 
 a ripoff!
  
  All in all, I do like the HL2 universe and I will of course purchase the remaining two episodes 
 once they are available because the overall experience should be far more intense and exhilirating 
 than the original HL. But if let HL2 stand alone as a game: it&acute; s barely worth bargain bin 
 money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Whether you're playing because you're a fan of the original or just looking for a good time, Half 
 Life 2 is an extreme solution. I don't really know where to begin saying how great of a game this 
 is. No matter what, this is bound to satisfy all FPS and PC gamers alike. If you even like playing 
 video games at all, then you'll definitely love Half Life 2.
  
  Okay, first thing's first: Why exactly am I killing these people? Well, you can say that you are 
 going to play through Gordon Freeman's point of view, literally. The whole story of Half Life 2 
 is played from his perspective, and it doesn't shift away from it. For the first time in a long 
 time, I actually feel like I'm playing as someone, even if he doesn't say a single word. It may 
 leave you with some unanswered questions, but if you're just as confused as Gordon is, then it's 
 rewarding enough. The conflict is the simple This government is abusive and crap . The Combine 
 forces are badasses and you have to deal with this. Oh, but there are some zombies to kill off, 
 too, and there are some people who apparently hate these things as much as you do. Being the all-famous 
 Freeman, you are obviously going to do something crazy, but fantastic.
  
  In terms of gameplay, this is the average FPS game that is pretty well done. Since there are pretty 
 much no cutscenes, you'll occasionally have to take full control of yourself in story events. You'll 
 be sitting around while your friends talk about all the stuff happening, but when you finally get 
 let out into the action, it delivers, and it delivers hard. Don't let the first level bore you. 
 Things are just getting started.
  
  Ther are many things that you can mess around with in your free time. The physics engine is probably 
 the best I've ever seen, so you can simply throw stuff around the environment and it will react 
 realistingly. Not only does it add to the realism, it can be used in and out of combat. But the 
 real deal is all the run and gun action. The typical selection of pistols, machine guns, shotguns, 
 and explosives make up most of the weaponry. Too bad that there are only a few weapons in the game. 
 There are two machine guns, two pistols, a shotgun, crossbow, RPG launcher, grenade, and of course 
 the allmighty crowbar. Sounds like a small weapon selection? Yeah, kind of. I found myself using 
 the sub-machine gun a lot, but the best weapon has to be the Gravity Gun. Remember I was talking 
 about the awesome physics this game provides? Well, the Gravity Gun takes full advantage of that. 
 Basically, all this does is grab an object and hurls it where you're aiming. Yet, another way to 
 kill people in your way. It can add some strategy into firefights where you need to find a suitable 
 object to use in killing enemies. Other than using them to kill enemies, you can also pick up large 
 stuff and use them as shields. Out of all the creative weapons I've seen in any game, this has 
 to be the best. Other than that, the weapons feel great, but I wish there was more variety in weapons 
 and maybe some weapons with a more sci-fi feel. Hey, if there's a pulse rifle, they could probably 
 use their futuristic technology to craft some taco launcher or something. Nonetheless, you'll still 
 have fun with the weapon selection.
  
  This isn't entirely about shooting people. The physics are also used for puzzles, but they're all 
 pretty easy and will become more of an annoyance after beating the game. Vehicles are also something 
 to be noted. There are only 2, and they only last for 2 segments. When these vehicle segments come 
 up, it's just the simple get to this destination method. Occasionally, you'll have to stop and 
 take out a shield or kill some bad guys. Though I didn't find this anywhere near the greatness 
 of a few other parts in the game, I did like the feeling that you were still experiencing the hell 
 Gordon is in the middle of. Nobody ever said that being the most feared kickass geek scientist 
 dude would be easy. Still, the driving segments are kind of long, but keeps the feeling that you 
 should really finish this up to see what's next in terms of gameplay, not story. Both vehicle segments 
 have their own unique vehicles, but they still don't control very well. The airboat was handled 
 better than the buggy. Gunning and driving is present, and is surprisingly still done great. People 
 who have used vehicles in Battlefield 2 (in first person) should feel a bit familiar.
  
  As for how well the game looks, it's gorgeous. It may not be next-gen graphics, but man, this is 
 great. The characters and their facial expressions have to be the best yet. I can't find a game 
 with better lip-synching out there. Well, maybe Oblivion, but then again, maybe not. Anyways, the 
 bullet-markings on the walls look like they've taken in a lot of damage, but trust me: that is 
 actually a 2D image, not a full 3D makeover. The illusion of bump-mapping at work. Graphics may 
 not be Doom 3 pretty, but the uniqueness of Half Life 2's graphics are good enough for me.
  
  If your speakers are even working, then you might actually pay attention to the sound. If they're 
 working, then you'll know it's excellent. Voice acting was done almost flawlessly. This goes very 
 well with the great lip-syncing implemented into the game's graphics, and probably creates some 
 of the most realistic characters in a video game. Weapons also have a great feel to them with their 
 own sound effects, and the objects in the environment make the appropiate sounds once again from 
 some of the physics. Though I do have one complaint for the sound and that would be that the pistol 
 sounds a bit too weak, and that Gordon stays silent. Though I like the silent kind of hero, he 
 can at least speak once in a while.
  
  Simply put, Half Life 2 is a great game, if not a great achievement. It may only deliver an outstanding 
 single player mode, but if you know where to get mods, they can infinitely expand the replay value. 
 A longer single player story could of made the game that much better, but what you get out of the 
 box is entirely worth it. Yeah, it's true that you need an internet connection and the Steam client 
 to play the game, which can be a pain in the ass, but once everything's fine, then you're in for 
 one hell of a ride.
  
  NOTE: Get the game with only Gordon Freeman on the front cover. It includes Counter Strike Source. 
 Get the box with Alyx AND Gordon standing in front of a white background, it does not. I learned 
 the hard way, but at least if I get CSS seperately, I also get DoD Source. As long as you get Half 
 Life 2, then you're all set for everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcryonicx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this review as I just beat Half Life 2 for the first time minutes ago. Call me slow, 
 but whatever.
  
  As if it was necessary to say that Half Life 2 is a great game, this will just go down in the many 
 perfect scores of ratings. The game doesn't stray far from the traditional FPS genre, but it does 
 add little things here and there to make it an intense, action-filled experience. It is evident 
 that the people over at Valve really put a lot of effort into making this game's campaign. There 
 are just so many aspects that Half Life 2 manages to execute in such a perfect way that I could 
 not list them all here. The story is nothing short of unique by my standards, and all of the weapons, 
 vehicles, and enemies are flowing with creativity. The game has a nice mix of frantic run-and-gun 
 levels to dark, scary and downright freaky levels. Half Life 2 also has some of the most atmospheric 
 environments. Simply breathtaking. You don't find this sort of perfection in the FPS genre very 
 much; go pick up Half Life: 2 if you already haven't. It has yet to be dethroned as the king of 
 First Person Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDementous
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Stunning graphics. Easy controls to learn. Easy game. Neat physics. Intense action and gunfights. 
 'Decent' AI. Deep character developement. Superb voice-overs. Physics puzzles. Comes with a Deathmatch 
 (online multiplayer) . Great value. No shortage of mods. Vehicle levels are very fun.
  CONS: Easy game. You will spend days of your life playing this non stop. Pistol sounds wimpy. High 
 system requirements. Requires Steam (which requires Internet) .
  OVERVIEW: This game will forever live on my hard drive. I highly recommend this game. It is really 
 worth the money you spend on it. If you ever get bored of the single player experience (unlikely!) , 
 you can always play the Deathmatch, which incorporates physics with multiplayer action! Yes, you 
 can throw toilets at your buddys (or enemies!) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfutoma
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I used to play Far Cry. Recently, I bought HL2. What a huge difference! Far Cry has gigantic maps. 
 Often, there are many ways to achieve objectives. You don't have to get objectives in a predetermined 
 sequence. You can chose your own playing style: stealth or brute force. Of course, you have to 
 adjust it to particular parts of the game. Many different types of enemies. Enemies behave differently. 
 AI is very good. Mercenaries will track you based on your noise. They will try to flank you or 
 ambush. An example, if you make a lot of noise in one of building rooms, mercs will come from the 
 whole building to kill you, or they will prepared to shoot at you when you leave. None of the above 
 in HL2. Maybe the maps are large, but there is only one way you can go. Player is limited by corridors, 
 tunnels, and passages. No way to take any shortcut or alternative path. Very linear game play. 
 Mostly, you just have to aim and shoot your enemies. No way to avoid them, hide, etc. Poor AI. 
 Brainless enemies have either predefined position to which they stick, or they go straight at you. 
 Enemies are not aware of your position. You make noise in one room, but enemies are stuck in the 
 adjacent room. They will never attack you. And these puzzles with wooden boxes. Puzzles from Nintendo 
 Zelda for kids are 10 times smarter and more interesting. After 1 minute of moving around boxes 
 and barrels, it is insulting to do it over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Does anybody remember the sleepless nights of Half Life? Of course, we all do  eight years ago, 
 it was simply the best first person shooter out there with superb graphics and gameplay. Frankly, 
 nowadays most game developers care about the former one much more than the latter one  gameplay. 
 Half Life 2, for one, didnt fall into that category, thereby becoming a hit, the second time.
 
  
  Gordon Freemans second adventure starts at the train station of City 17. As you walk out of the 
 carriage, you notice the citys been over-run by Civil Protection, aka the Combine, while the citizens 
 have been taken as slaves  this is what the citys turned to after the invasion of Xen, introduced 
 in the prequel. Whilst walking around the station, huge screens appear with Dr. Breen, the so-called 
 Ruler of the Earth, greeting you. Wallace Breen is your main enemy in the game, as hes in charge 
 of the Combine. At the start of the game, you can walk past a combine without caution, but later 
 into the game, they become your enemy.
  
  Not the only enemy, mind you - zombies, vortigaunts, headcrabs, and barnacles are all back from 
 Half Life, along with some new ones, like the Striders. So are your allies: Barney  the security 
 guard, and Doctor Kleiner. New characters pop up this time around, as well  Judith Mossman and 
 Eli Vance  researchers of the Black MESA Research Facility, and Alyx, Elis daughter, which gradually 
 sort of becomes your love interest in the game. Unlike in HL2s already released first episodic 
 content, Episode One, you wont stick with Alyx all of the time, but you wont be a lone soldier, 
 either  Barney and Alyx aside, citizens who survived have turned into rebels, and will blast through 
 the combine with you time to time.
  
  Remember what your very first weapon in Half Life was  the crowbar! Well, its the first thing 
 youll hold in your hands in Half Life 2, as well. Later, youll get to use a pistol, a magnum, 
 a shotgun, grenades, an RPG, and many more. Ammunition isnt a big problem in HL2, since you get 
 some time to time  often you get to search for it, though  ammo may be hidden beneath staircases, 
 on top of shelves, in crates, etc. This kind of prevents you from charging the enemies full-speed. 
 Searching for ammo is a very minor puzzle in the game, as there are many more  to advance, youll 
 have to do various things  pile some crates on top of each other, break past some planks, find 
 a way to turn off something that doesnt let you get from point A to B, etc. The puzzles are easy, 
 so you shouldnt be stuck any time. Instead, they make the experience even better.
  
  Half Life 2 feels familiar with its predecessor in pretty much all the ways  starting with the 
 weapons and the characters, finishing with the gameplay. Graphics were totally over-hauled this 
 time. Half Life 2 introduced players to a new  Source  graphics engine, later used in Counter 
 Strike, Day of Defeat, and many others. HL2 has celebrated its second birthday around a month ago 
 now, but the graphics are still named being the best til date. Got nothing, but to agree  they 
 do look awesome. The textures, the shaders, etc.  they all make HL2 super-realistic, but whats 
 even better is that you dont need a very good PC to run it  the optimization is very, very good. 
 Ragdolls take place in Half Life 2, as well. Although NPCs aint as light as in Hitman where bodies 
 fly away like five meters after being shot in the head with a pistol, they aint the most realistic 
 either. But who am I kidding; they never were, in any game. Playing with them is always fun nonetheless 
  you can interact with the physics a lot  break vases, shoot melons, pick TVs and walk with them 
 until the wire looses, etc.
  
  The music in Half Life 2 is spectacular, as well. All the sound is, in general. Creepy music + 
 a zombie screaming nearby equals Wow. Some tracks are even pretty similar to ones from the original 
 Half Life. Valve even released a CD with all the soundtracks, so you might wanna get that if you 
 love the music. Great gameplay, graphics and sound make Half Life 2 a perfect package. I dont 
 really remember a single bad thing about it  everythings polished to the maximum, making it a 
 game every PC gamer should have. Even after you pass its pretty lengthy single player campaign, 
 you can check out the multiplayer and tons of modifications. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningrealms
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Half life was probably the best FPS of its time. It started FPS, and produced some brilliant mods 
 too. I think Opposing Force was possibly the best mod Half life had to offer. Then there was a 
 long, long wait before finally HL2 came out. It captured the minds of people with the mystery of 
 'G-man', the mysterious employer of the hero, Gordon Freeman.
  
  GAMEPLAY - HL2 has some of the best FPS moments in the history of shooters. It presents a top quality 
 setting with a sometimes confusing storyline. Freeman starts off with the G-man telling you something 
 that didn't make much sense to me. I haven't really followed the story too well but it doesn't 
 matter. Then you are on a train, on the way to City 17 , the place that is governed by combine 
 with these stunsticks that they whack you with. As you progress throught the game, you aquire more 
 weapons like shotguns, SMG's and crossbows to take on the increasingly tougher enemies. Zombies, 
 antlions, Super combine to name a few of these. The loading time are what bugged me. They are pretty 
 frequent and so annoying as they take about a minimum of 2 minutes to do, instead of 10 seconds. 
 Sometimes it takes 10 minutes!!! If you ignore that, you get a fun shoooter with, I guess, an immersive 
 storyline.
  
  GRAPHICS - HL2 was one of the first games to experiment with the Source engine. This engine provides 
 good graphics and excellent physics, though doubtless there are better ones out there now. The 
 character models are very good, but the faces on some of the civilians are creepy at times.
  
  SOUND - The sound is very very good except for the handgun you get at the beginning. It sounds 
 like Gordon Freeman is making the sounds of the gun like I did when I was a little child. Apart 
 from that, the voices and other various weapons sound fantastic. The vehicles do as well.
  
  OVERALL - HL2 is definitely worth a look at if you like FPS's. It presents a great graphics 
 engine, decent story line and good physics. I think it was a worthy sequel to one of my favourite 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miki_suzaki
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This Game is one of the best games you can get. The ability to manipulate your environments to 
 solve puzzles is astoundingly fun and relatively easy to do., and you won't ever become bored with 
 the ability to shoot explosive barrels at your enemies.
  
  The Story is set in a time when the world has been taken over by aliens called the Combine. Not 
 much is known about these creatures themselves, but they have conquered the planet and don't nessecerily 
 plan to stop there. People are forced to live in controlled citites, beaten, and sometimes killed 
 if they do not cooperate, and the only one who can call humanity up and strike back at these dominating 
 aliens is you, Gordon Freeman. An M. I. T. graduate and rogue scientist. But, don't get the idea 
 from those glasses that you'll be working in a lab and running tests on gerbils in this world.
 
  
  The graphics are superb, no joke. Voice acting and facial expressions make you feel as if these 
 characters are real; From psychotic laughter to cries for help, it all gives the world perfect 
 atmosphere.
  
  The levels themselves all fit well with the story/feel of the game. You'll have to work for your 
 goals, but the game never makes it tedious or boring. You'll have to use your imagination (gasp) 
 to solve some puzzles that may seem impossible at first, but are quickly solved through planning, 
 thinking, and maybe a few grenades and buzzsaws.
  
  The enimies arn't morons, and they don't play nice either. They can duck and cover behind walls 
 and rocks just as well as you can, and arn't afraid to lob a few granades (which you can lob back 
 in some cases) or plant a few snipers. Also the helicopters and gunships arn't pushovers, and will 
 make you flee for your life repeatedly. Luckily, the game provides you with a way to destroy just 
 about anything that gets in your way, if you utilize it properly.
  
  There are a few things that break up this game. First is the loading times, though those you can't 
 complain much about, they are not so long that you can run to the bathroom during them. (that's 
 what the pause button is for.)
  
  Second is that the game is sadly.. very sadly... short. there isn't much replay value other than 
 playing in other difficulty settings. However, you CAN download mods for the game (and even create 
 your own if you're talented enough) . Not to mention playing with the facial expressions is something 
 that you can't help but to enjoy.
  
  lastly, and this is really only my personal preference, two specific levels did get repetative 
 and lose my interest, but the concept of those levels themselves still fit the game well and were 
 very inventive. The only reason I bring up these levels is that since the game is so short, I felt 
 a tad disapointed that these levels took so long, and were very close in design. But that is my 
 own opinion, and some people love these levels, but in either case, these levels arn't any reason 
 to not buy this game if you are already thinking about it.
  
  This game's many MANY good qualities far outweigh the few and far between bad ones. If you have 
 played the original half-life, or just want a good first-person shooter to get into, this one should 
 be way up the list.
  
  The only thing is, I recommend either playing, or reading about, the first Half- Life game before 
 playing this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgb1234
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Note: I never played Half-Life so unfortunately i can't compare and contrast with the original
 
  
  Half-Life 2 was the game that decided I needed a new computer with a top of the line video card. 
 With all the hype surrounding this game it was really hard not to get sucked up into it. Since 
 I missed Half-Life back in 1998, there was no way I could miss this one. But was it worth all this 
 money and deserved the hype it was receiving? It most certainly does.
  
  Half-Life 2 starts you on a train and dropping you off at a a place called City 17. If there is 
 one thing that stands out above the rest of the game, it's the atmosphere. You actually feel like 
 you're a part of the world that you go through. This is helped through great storytelling, advanced 
 AI, scripted character interactions, and a VERY advanced physics system (still haven't played a 
 game coming close to the physics in HL2) . It gives you a larger then life feeling throughout, dropping 
 your jaw around every corner.
  
  This game was a beauty. HL2 ran perfectly fine maxed out on my computer so I was running around 
 in what felt like a next-generation game. Sound was very good in this game, giving scope to everything 
 you see around you (especially underneath the bridge) . Controls for this game are solid all around, 
 except I'm not a big fan of moving around and feeling like I'm a floating head. Sure, maybe it's 
 due to his power suit or something, but it still feels odd in certain situations.
  
  All in all, a great game that deserves the praise it's received, if you haven't picked it up already, 
 do so and pick up the expansion packs too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheater
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is simply one of the best games to have ever been released on the PC in the FPS genre. 
 This game has outstanding graphics and unbelievable sound to go with it, There is a wide selection 
 of weapons to use in this game each with there advantages and disadvantages but non the less this 
 game offers so much fun and excitement that you really wont notice the disadvantages.
  This game is relatively easy in the early parts of the game however as you get further into the 
 game it becomes a lot more challenging and so much more fun.
  
  The areas in which you will be fighting are so highly detailed it sometimes looks like an actual 
 movie however you will need somewhat of a high end computer to play this game at its full potential 
 however you really dont need a high end PC to make this game looks amazing, the medium and sometimes 
 the low settings are also very good and still make the game look very realistic and just fantastic. 
 The way the enemies die in this game is truly awesome, the rag doll effect that they have in this 
 game is really funny sometimes if you have the advanced grav gun that is.
  
  Overall this game is really awesome with amazing graphics and a very good story, a must for any 
 FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  the second half life who is even better the his first one is the game that will revolutionaize 
 your fealling about FPS.
  
  we well go on the regular thing now.
  GRAPHICS: amazing graphincs and every one you will ask will agree.
  
  SOUND: the sound is just 
 right for this game fast song in the action part and total silence in the and of them and in the 
 puzle solving part.
  
  GAMEPLAY: whoooo what a great gameplay this game has there is even driving part in this game (alot 
 of them) and in one part of the game you have very intelligente allies that will help you in your 
 quest of killing and... a level were you can control a man eating bugs!! how cool is that? this 
 is the FPS game with probebly the greatest gameplay out there but i will let you decide
  
  this is my review for HL2 enjoy
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpaledDecade
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life was awesome. Its modibilty was insane. Looks like Valve did something great for once 
 with Half-Life 2. I got my copy of HL2 after Lost Coast and Episode One where relased. And, unless 
 i'm mistaken, HDR made its way into HL2 after those relases. Gordon Freeman is back to help clean 
 up someones big mistake, only this time, its not Black Mesa's fault... or is it? I was too busy 
 playing with the gravity gun to notice. So... gravity gun, wow... that thing is fun. Saw blades 
 + gravity gun + zombie = 1/2 a zombie. I was a bit dissapointed with the amount of weaponry in 
 the game, but the rocket launcher was fabulous. The missle could be controlled very well, unlike 
 Half-Life. I don't have much to say, but the success of Half-Life one carries over to Half-Life 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Hype - the word used to define the excitement, rumours and anticipation leading up to a game's 
 release. Not many overly hyped games live up to the hype that has been circulating - not many at 
 all. Half-Life 2 is a rare example; this is a game that lives up to the mountain of hype that had 
 been growing in its favour, that says **** you to all its expectations, and simultaneously breaks 
 the barriers of FPS gaming. Half-Life 2, without question, is one of the purest examples of a genre 
 ever seen by gamers; this is FPS gaming turned up to 11, implementing almost perfect gameplay mechanics 
 with an engrossing story and some great technical aspects. Put it this way - this is one of the 
 games that everybody must play or experience before they die. Half-Life 2 more or less continues 
 more or less where its revolutionary predecessor left off, with the world's unluckiest scientist 
 being recruited by the ethereal G-Man once again. This time, at the beginning of the game, he is 
 plonked onto a train leading into the heart of a dystopian city that goes only by the name City 
 17 - a dismal, run-down city overrun by alienated Combine soldiers and filled with screens that 
 blare down propaganda from the infamous villain and ruler of City 17 Dr. Breen. Once the shooting 
 begins in this game, it essentially never stops - fifteen hours or so of intense gunfights and 
 huge battles between Freeman, numbers of Combine soldiers and zombies and headcrabs jumping into 
 the middle of it. Part of the reason why the battles are so enjoyable is down to the engine that 
 Half-Life 2 runs on. Most of it is down to the amazing physics engine on show here - fire scores 
 of bullets into a soldier, and they will realistically jerk around in pain, before falling to the 
 floor. The physics are best described as ragdoll physics gone crazy, and throughout the game ridiculous 
 scenarios will show up where you will have to showcase the physics engine to your advantage. One 
 of the most impressive moments is where you are speeding down a river on an airboat and a Combine 
 missile hits a huge industrial chimney towering a few hundred feet into the air, and slowly, the 
 chimney veers over and does a spectacular collapse into the river, with massive levels of realism. 
 The gravity gun, which you pick up almost halfway through the game, is another example - a weapon 
 where you can lift up small to medium weight objects and fire them at enemies; as you can imagine, 
 this opens up some great gravity-based opportunities to (for lack of a better term) pwn the opposition. 
 The weapons in the game are so darn satisfying as well. You begin with no weapon at all, and all 
 you can do is pick up objects and throw them at people (even though at first they aren't as hostile 
 as you'd expect) but you will get the crazily famous crowbar about an hour in and then follow that 
 up with a pistol, an SMG, a crowbar, a crossbow, a rocket launcher, and of course the infamous 
 gravity gun. This arsenal is quite impressive and it's great to dispose of your enemies in any 
 way you want. Sure, you can do that in other games, but no other shooter has ever utilised this 
 possibility as good as Half-Life 2 does here. Enemy AI is a mixed bag - on one hand, yes, they 
 will occasionally use cover to their advantage. But on the other hand, most of the time they will 
 be standing around a few neaty stacked explosive barrels / lazing around on the job, and as soon 
 as you enter their sight, they will run towards you and fire whatever weapon they are carrying, 
 without a thought for backup, defensive maneouvres, or cover utilisation, which significantly lowers 
 the level of challenge offered by the enemies of the game. So, yes, the game is unfortunately rather 
 easy; you might want to play through Normal on first run, but you will really want to crank it 
 up to Hard when you've got the hang of the gameplay (which, lets face it, doesn't take too long.)
 
  
  The main campaign is full of variety and versatility. You'll begin by simply exploring the suburbs 
 and flats of City 17, and then throughout the course of the game you'll be crawling through canals 
 with a pistol in hand, driving an airboat down a winding river filled with rocket launcher-wielding 
 Combine, using the gravity gun to fight through a zombie-overrun horrorville, taking a siege on 
 a prison, and staging a battle in the midst of City 17, between rebels, citizens and combine. Environments 
 and enemies change constantly, so that there is a surprise around every corner - and it's a simply 
 awesome element to the game. Plus, there are a few physics-based puzzles in there too, which provide 
 a sometimes welcome break from the non-stop, intense action.
  
  In the midst of it all is an astonishingly well-told story. The actual plot isn't as engrossing 
 as the voices and scripting that deliver it, but nevertheless its a dark science fiction tale that 
 is miles better than most of the crap featured in first person shooters of this type; there are 
 some quirky, memorable characters here and the digital actors are superbly rendered. The range 
 of facial expressions is vast.
  
  The graphics in Half-Life 2 are some of the best I've personally ever seen on the PC. The environments 
 are quite dull and macabre, but they envoke a great sense of dark claustrophobia. The textures 
 and atmosphere are all just right, and the lighting is as close to perfect as we're ever going 
 to get. The character models are great - although most of the enemies look the exact same as the 
 one thats just around the corner (Well, thats to be expected, to be perfectly honest) the character 
 models are each exquisitely detailed and the ways that the physics engine take reactions on them 
 are hilariously good. The range of expressions the main cahracter's faces achieve, as aforementioned, 
 is quite something. Every single piece of visual in this game is a masterpiece.
  
  The sound reaches the same heights. The music in the game is scarce and far between, but when it 
 kicks in, you know something big is about to happen. It gets the pulse going at just the right 
 moment before a predictably massive battle sequence. The miscallaneous sounds that illustrate said 
 battle really do a great job of achieving a sense that you're in the thick of a suitably hot firefight, 
 what with every bullet making pinging sounds as they ricochet off radiators and the sound of Combine 
 in the distance yelling random cries to each other. The level Ravenholm in particular is an excellent 
 showcase - the music is terribly atmospheric (thats in a good way) and the sound of a zombie coming 
 round the corner inches from your face with an undead wail is quite heart-stopping. Note, you should 
 play that mission in the dark, if only to experience how much the audio contributes to this already 
 immersive experience.
  
  So, all in all, Half-Life 2 is one of the purest examples of a brilliant singleplayer first person 
 shooter the gaming industry has ever seen. A versatile, lengthy campaign chock full of memorable 
 set-pieces and meaty skirmishes set in between an awesomely delivered story, some of the greatest 
 visuals on offer, and a revolutionary physics engine that will no doubt become a benchmark in achieving 
 realistic gravity in videogaming. This is an FPS every developer should aspire to create. This 
 is an FPS that will most likely be used as a training course for said developer. This is an FPS 
 that has simply destroyed all of the hype that has been thrown in its way, and in the end, it achieves 
 its overriding goal : to surpass all expectations set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  this is the game that contiues the game that made FPS games amazing and as fun as they are. i've 
 played a little bit of the first game and it felt exacilly like Half-Life 2 is. Half-Life 2 is 
 the king of the PC just like Halo is the King of the Xbox and Metroid is the king of the Gamecube. 
 the gameplay is this game is amazing, even that you are always as Gordon Freeman and there isn't 
 a single movie it still feels like a sci-fi movie. there are great weapons, enemys as levels. the 
 maps are really good looking and not just because this game looks amazing but it's really great 
 looking there's city 17, the open sweres, the runid city the railroads and many more to gorgers 
 places, the last thing about gameplay is that the enemys are a little bit to easy but still really 
 fun to kill them.
  the garpics in this game are as i said amazing. the people look so realistic and the it's just 
 so hard to explain how great this game is that the only bad thin about this game in grapics is 
 that for today they look okey but not as amazing as it is, before we finish this i need to say 
 about the sound is that it's perfect in every way i mean it sounds even better (the voice acting) 
 than GTA and they put in music to really give a good feeling of a sci-fi action movie. at the end 
 this is why PC rule the FPS games and this is keeps the new feeling that the first game did. i 
 can't say that this is my favourite game because that's me but this is one of my favourite games 
 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZodiacMonkey
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 had me on the edge of my seat, it was very intense for a game. Most games are boring 
 and they dont really take your mind into the story but this game did just that. There were literally 
 parts of this game that scared me. A game has to be good to do that to a person. All the action 
 in the game was so vividly shown. The explosions were and gun fire made it seem so real. One of 
 the largest factors of realism in this game was the realism of physics with all of the objects, 
 all the bodies would fly like they are suppose to, explosions will blast rubble and trash and what 
 not away. This PC game was just by far one of the best I have ever played, thats why I wrote this 
 review. I wanted to express myself about how good this game really is. I truly recommend this game 
 to all gamers who really enjoy first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattehSmallz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I bet your all thinking that Half life 2 could not be half as better than the original half life, 
 and just because it has fancy graphics and realism it still wouldnt bat the original. But i can 
 ell you now its not far off. The gameplay is brilliant and the physics ar awesome, the fel of the 
 game is outstanding and you actually feel like you are Gordan freeman yourself.
  
  The graphics are really REALLY good and this adds a whole lot of width to the game itself. The 
 physics and the realism are great and gives you much more to to with the game and to get involved
 
  
  The sounds are good but im no expert on them. Though when i was playing the game the music fitted 
 in with what i was doing, so it was a great blend of music, and the sound effects suited the guns 
 as well.
  
  Overall this game is brilliant and i recommend to any fans, Fps or strategy or whatever you like, 
 you need to get this game! its fantastic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  this one of my bestest shooter games i had play it when the game
  whas new in the shops only my hardware wasnt good for the game it whas realy shocking i whas frustrated 
 and stopped whith playing halflife2 because
  the game whas to slow my pc but a half month back i had play it again now it whas a realy good 
 game sometimes i whas realy scary of the monsters in the game! but the makers of the game thinking 
 good
  i whas in a gardan or something and in one time there falls a wall
  into the garden and who is there other the wall? one scary monster!!
  its a realy smart game 
 and i feel there is a realy good horror effect into the gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is an incredibly awsome game from start to finish and it keeps on getting better. Gameplay: 
 The gameplay is pretty simple in half-life 2 but it's extremlly fun and satisfying anyway, the 
 stroyline is pretty good and the game it self is pretty long, proobly will take you fifteen hours 
 to beat if you havent already.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Half-life 2 are amazing and if it were 2004 id tell you it's the best 
 looking game ever made, though it still lookes fantastic and has an exellent physics engine.
  
  Sound: The sound in half-life 2 is great too and there are thousands of different sounds.
 
  
  Multiplay: The multiplayer in half-life 2 is famanominal if your talking Counter strike: source, 
 and is one of the most popularly played multiplayer FPS games.
  
  Value: Half-life 2 is totally worth the price and if youra fan of first person shooters you need 
 to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venomt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is one of the best game I ever played. Amazing graphics if you have a good graphic 
 card, a lot of action and a great story, you have to buy it if you are a FPS gamer or a half-life 
 fan, like me. Half-life 1 was a success and I think than half-life 2 is a lot better. Its a good 
 investment. You will not regret it. The game is about 10 to 15 hours but when you finish the game 
 you want to restart a new game. This game is like a drug. This is the best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cng480
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Good for it, way to go, not a let down, i cant think of any more comments. Yes i can. . . having 
 the game come out so long ago, and now getting it for unseen reasons, the graphics are still good, 
 learning simple, sound great, if you want to kill (in game) play this, like fear, but correct, 
 just right the blonde trespasser said to the food she took from the angry black people living in 
 the ghetto... :) PLAY THE GAME you will like it, get the bundle that comes with more stuff. Cheaper 
 that way only costing so much less than trying just to get Half life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -g-u-y-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I just want to say to all half-life 2 fan boys. I don't hate half-life 2. It is just that i think 
 half-life is better. Half-life 2 is a fun game but can't mach half-life in terms of gameplay. All 
 say that half-life 2 is the best game ever but i think thats a lie. Because all pepole don't like 
 half-life 2 or any half-life game at all. People just say that because it is a half-life game and 
 half-life must have a great score or the media get upset. But that is just my opinion, you don't 
 have to lisent to me or read this text. But what can say about half-life 2? Cool weapons , great 
 visuals , good sound and the online mode rocks. One of the coolest weapons is the gun that can 
 grab things and shoot them on enemies. The enemies AI is smart but the enemies in F. E. A. R. are 
 much smarter. It is a game that you should buy even if your computer sucks. Like mine. it works 
 anyway. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAPITANMORGAN
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  If you ever stood in front of one of the GUARDS or SECURITY officers... if you wanna call them that... they 
 give me this errie feeling.. Ive gotten so close that they almost all the time tell me to stand 
 back an not to get to close. I sometimes push em. toss em a box heck ive even thrown them abottle 
 or two an they chase me.. i like it when they do that.. pumps up my BLOOD. They stop chasing you 
 after a while. Thats when i turn around an go right back for seconds. One time i had two of them 
 chasing me. I liked that alot!
  CLEAR WATER MESA is a secret base by the GOVT. The guards are there to protect the BASE an its 
 workings and happenings. Im running. I have alot of them GUARDS after me you know. I dont know 
 what i did to make them chase me, Im kinda hiding under the sewers. There like tossing barrels 
 that are on fire that XPLODE under water where im tryn to dodge there bullets! I think i ever heard 
 a AIR LIFTER once. There everywhere. Im running low on AMMO an my HEALTH is up at 83percent. I 
 know there going to close in on me. I can feel them. I wish i had someone to watch my back.. but 
 it looks like im going to have to go about on my own. Maybe when i get to the bottom of it all 
 i will finally know what is really out there.
  
  AREA 51 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerous112233
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. There is no flaw in this game anywhere. You can use cheats and blast your 
 way through the game or play through it with no cheats. This game has kick ass weapons and enemies. 
 The weapons that you can possibly get are (including cheats) crowbar, stunstick, pistol, grav gun, 
 magnum, plasma rifle, SMG, RPG, grenade, pheropod, shotgun, heated crossbow, powered up grav gun, 
 and there might be some others I forgot to mention. The enemies in this game are truely well done 
 and fight against, my personal favorite enemy is the ant guard. The powered up grav gun is the 
 best weapon made in the history of the gaming world in my opinion. You can pick up dead bodies 
 and fling them around or rip of stuff attached to the walls. The Counter Strike Source part of 
 this game is the best i'd have to say. Meet online with other people and shoot it out! Terrorists 
 and Counter Terrorists both have same guns, and different guns. Everything about these games are 
 great, the top notch graphics, the amazing sounds, the great replay value, EVERYTHING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a wonderful experience. I was surprised by the graphics and gameplay. However, the 
 enemies are quite easy to kill and the AI is not so smart. they'll just swarm you instead of planning 
 attacks or attacking in a smart way. Regardless, the graphics and varied environments keep you 
 in the game entertaining you and making you wish more FPS were like this. With outstanding graphics, 
 amazing sound, and interesting level design, this is a first person shooter not to miss. I'm giving 
 a short review because this game is great... no need to explain why, buy it and you will enjoy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  The reason this game is so Perfect is because of it's amazing Graphics that are just so top-notch 
 it's definitly one of my better games in my collection. Sound has great voices amazing atmosphere 
 and music. When playing in Ravenholm it can just be really scary because you know something can 
 jump at you at any moment without you realising it. When it comes to gameplay I did find some puzzles 
 tricky, but they got interesting especially with the best weapon in the game the Gravity Gun! I 
 love the physics I love they way things move around especially love the way ou solve puzzles with 
 it and use it only as the main weapon right at the end. Speaking of at the end of the game, gamespot 
 said the cliffhanger was a dissapointment when it wasn't at all in fact it's one of my more enjoyable 
 endings and I seriously need to play Episode One and the following episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelibertyjap
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is in a league of its own. The game was released in Q4 of 2004 and is still one of 
 the best looking games on the PC. The valve engine is at the heart of this game featuring some 
 of the best physics around. The story benefits greatly from these technological advancements as 
 it incorporates the physics engine into puzzles and other parts of the game. Keep in mind that 
 this game is 2 years old and is yet to show sign of aging. The multiplayer is average but this 
 game flexes its muscles in the community department. I have yet to see any game come close to having 
 such a dedicated and creative community that churns out mod after mod, each unique and innovate. 
 Garry's Mod is a great example of how one mod can completely change HL2 while putting the valve 
 engine to work. To make things better HL2 is controlled through steam which manages, informs, and 
 updates games. You no longer have to sift through game specific websites to find out if your game 
 had a patch for it. Steam takes care of all patches, defragments your game files (only games supported 
 in steam) , and does all of this in a sleek and intuitive GUI. Overall this game is a must buy for 
 anyone, especial first person shooter gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo16161616
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing and ive beat it twice. I can, t wait for all of the new episodes. I was at 
 my computer the second that episode 1 came out and was playing it 15 min later. Beat it about 6 
 hrs laters. For those people who haven't played/owned it then you might want to meak sure your 
 video card is good enough. I made that mistake, and regret it to this day. The game play is great 
 and from what i've seen on my friends computer, the graphics kick major ass. It has some pretty 
 good AI and is worth the money. If you like the original Counter-Strike then buy the platinum version. 
 Worth the $59.99. Not to mention it has the best mod ever made for a game, Garry's Mod. Buy it 
 or i will kill you in your sleep... dont look behind you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tropico_Al
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Played HL2 again last night and it was like seeing an old friend you've been missing for 2 years 
 now. The graphics still amaze me and the erie gameworld still inspire and scare me (i'm 26 :-S) .
 
  
  It's hard to explain what makes HL2 so exceptional. It's a combination of everything done right. 
 Too often you play games with great graphics and nothing else. HL2 blends everything together seamlessly 
 to create an unforgettable experience. Who can ever forget Ravenholm, driving down Highway 17 or 
 reaching Black Mesa for the first time. I still feel amazed when looking at the level of detail 
 on the ant lions or playing around with the physics gun.
  
  If you haven't played this game yet, I envy you. What I would give to be able to erase all the 
 chapters from my mind and start this game with fresh eyes.
  
  It's a Masterpiece, no other word will do.
  
  GO GET IT NOW!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desromic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game, I literally spent over an hour just playing around rather than 
 actually moving forward in the game. I was hypnotized by the beautiful graphics and dynamic physics. 
 The realism, interactivity, immersive story, intense and fluent action, diverse weapons and characters, 
 and unlimited possibilities makes most other games seem like electronic board games . The only 
 real problem with this game is that it actually ENDS! No matter how long they make the game, it 
 would never be long enough. The reason I haven't scored this game a 10 is because the storyline 
 leaves lots of unanswered questions. The story ends abruptly leaving a massive gap for the next 
 Half-Life to fill. As a single game, Half-life 2 is near perfect, but as a series, Half-Life promises 
 to be a video game legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggs8595
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is just way to amazing! its real fun too. but, aw man this game is harrrrrrrrrrrrrrd. 
 this game is like the hardest game ever to me. took me a year to beat it. but it was way worth 
 the time to play, i think. but the monsters are way to freakin hard. there is this one level where 
 it really dark and theres monsters all over the place! you know what i think is wierd, its that 
 the guy you are is a doctor right, well hes the one that made the freakin monsters that are so 
 hard to kill all the time (if you have half life 1 you already seen whe the doctor has an expermite 
 gone wrong) . well anyways its a good game if you dont have it you should buy it, (its kinda similar 
 to halo) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Sooooooooo..... what hasn't been said about ti yet.....
  The gameplay is the same as most first person shooters, but adds the gravity gun, some lengthy 
 but memorable vehicle sequences, and one of the best sci fi characters and creatures to be introduced 
 into gaming.
  The graphics are prestine thanks to the source engine, and due to constant tweeks each of its successors 
 look even better. And the characters look and feel like real human beings.
  Sound is the only dissappointing thing because they reused the sounds for the health and charging 
 stations and the head crabs, all of which sound silly and out of place in this revamped sequel.
 
  Its still fun to play after owning it to today (11/06) since it was released and will always be 
 fun thanks to the lengthy campaign and the continuing expansions.
  Its just a well crafted web of characters, story, and guns into a classic for all time. DOOM 3, 
 Quake 4, and all other overdue sequals be d***ed, this one takes the cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablos101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  The graphics, sound and the physics are really good, and its very intersting to watch if you are 
 hogging the pc or laptop all day.
  I really did enjoy this game and theres quite a bit of replay value, this is probs because of the 
 scenary. I just hope we see more stuff added to the Playstation 3 version when it comes out next 
 year.
  
  Other then that, i think the story could of done with a lil more info, as it has the potetial to 
 be gd, i would agree with gamespots review as well. overall its good value for money and should 
 keep you enterained and sepecially multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyfear
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 uses the (new) engine developed by Valve and is a completely different and improved 
 engine when compared to Half Life. It has changed the way we all play first person shooters and 
 has revolutionized PC gaming. It isn't a hard game to pick up, and it isn't necessary to play the 
 original, though I advice you do if you wish to learn the story.
  
  Graphics-wise, Half Life 2 comes off really well. It's dynamic lighting effects really bring City 
 17 too life. Not forgetting the physics that have being built into the game as well. The AI in 
 Half Life 2 is excellent. All enemies act the way anyone would expect them to act, all depending 
 on the difficulty set.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who just simply wants to whack a head crab with a crowbar, or shot 
 gun a combine soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomkeeper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the best graphics, BY FAR the best physics and one of the best stories of 
 any shooters. This game is a MUST-BUY to anyone who even owns a computer. This game includes some 
 of the most interesting weapons and monsters that you will fight. When you purchase half-life 2 
 it will also include Counter Strike Source, the worlds most competitive and largest online shooter 
 in the world. Half Life 2 also supports thousands of mods, most found at moddb. com one of the biggest 
 resource sites to find great games in development for Half Life 2. This game will completely immerse 
 you into a whole new world that you will never want to forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NZX666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The quintessential 'intellectual shooter', Half-life 2 is a game that requires a state of mind 
 more akin to that of an adventure game than a hardcore shooter- think a lot, and you will definitely 
 enjoy the experience. Lock yourself in your room, take things slowly but not too slowly, and you 
 will see that Half-life 2 is truly unsurpassed as a shooter.
  
  Half-life 2 was hyped to the moon- there's no doubt about that, but that's not a bad thing as Half-life 
 2 actually delivers on its promises- Beautiful graphics, tight game-play, an interesting story, 
 great A. I. and everything else that most shooters promise. But that's not what makes Half-life 
 2 great; it's that all of these elements just meld and work together, perfectly.
  
  To list all of the games features on a page would only go to lessen their impact and make the game 
 sound like everything else; Sure it has lots of guns, impressive physics, great graphics (even 
 by todays' standards) , vehicles and believable characters, but the use of the afore-mentioned elements 
 to serve your game experience is a case-study in mastery of the art of game design. Just as your 
 starting to get tired of trekking through sewers with a pea shooter your given a better weapon 
 (in the naturalistic fashion i. e. acquiring the weapon from the enemy you've just killed) - or when 
 you've just about grown tired of trekking through sewers and slums your put into a hovercraft and 
 set into exploring the greater countryside, only to engage in an intense chase with a helicopter 
 when you think you've seen enough of the country side in all of its tainted beauty.
  
  The pacing is Half-life 2's single greatest strength, and the binding glue for all of the game's 
 parts that would truly shine even by themselves; such as the excellent facial animations, the evocative 
 and believable voice acting, excellent sound design, and the gravity gun (by this time, it should 
 need no introduction :P) . If you don't believe me, just play it right now to find out for yourself, 
 but before you do I'd like to voice my opinions on what I perceive as flaws in the game, however 
 minor.
  
  The plot in Half-life 2 is, well- there isn't much of one, though there is a story to be told, 
 most of it is done so sparingly you hardly even notice- until the end that is, and even then (in 
 Half-life fashion) it leaves you scratching your head thinking, "What now?". - Now remedied by 
 the extended plot of the episodes, but still a large niggle for a game 5 years in development. 
 I say this because the story and context of events in Half-life 2 pale in comparison to those of 
 its predecessor. For example, the inevitable **** hits the fan" moment in H-L2 is pinned down to 
 a situation of comedic circumstance and poor luck, whereas in H-L 1 the same plot mechanic-event 
 was part of an immense conspiracy made to throughout the subsequent plot- H-L 2's mysteries are 
 still holdovers from the first game, which in my opinion is particularly lazy story-telling. Even 
 worse though, the game asks many more questions without answering any previous ones from the first 
 game (except for "what happens to earth now?", and even that is kept largely ambiguous) .
  
  But this is really just a grumble from a long-time fan who feels that all of his attention invested 
 in the series so far should be rewarded (I can't wait for episode three!) . To call Half-life 2 
 a game is to demean its value; there is are so much that is indefinable about it (such as the sheer 
 FEELING you get from it) , that it would be unfair to label it as something that has rules and objectives 
 and that you win at the end- it isn't like that at all, more than that even. Half-life 2 is an 
 experience that any gamer worth their salt should go through, though it will mostly appeal to a 
 more mature audience. Pick it up right now if your 18 or older. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRUEpwnage
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Most of us know that half-life is a very good game, but its sequel is a blow out. The intense game 
 play and replay value are great and so are the graphics. The sound is great and theres not much 
 else to say but amazing. Plus the biggest fps shooter online with it?! that makes it so close to 
 perfect in my mind (nothings perfect) but it is close to it. The way the story is written to the 
 range of weapons available make the story great. Um i have to make this 100 words so im just going 
 to put random words... long live half life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProductNumber49
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Don't hesitate, go buy this game. They dont say that its the game of the year for nothing. The 
 game has very good graphics even at this moment. The gameplay is very addictive.... Its has some 
 good puzzles that make good use of the source engine's physics. Great voice acting and facial expression, 
 you sometimes get the feel that you're in the game. I think the game has a very long replay value, 
 because it has alot of mods... For example: Smod ( adds alot of cool and random weapons, plus some 
 abilities not see in the game) , Fakefactory ( adds hi-res skins and textures) , and there is also 
 the god of all mods, wich is of course GMOD , where you can do actually whatever you want, and 
 when i say what ever i mean it.
  Well i got very unlucky because the game that i bought, had alot of bugs, crashes and other anoying 
 stuff, but that didnt stop me from finishing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 brings almost just as much wonderful taste into the genre of FPS as the original Half-life 
 did. It's just that good. We waited a good six years for their phenomenon, and we finally have 
 it in our hands! Unbelievable right? Well it was released in 2004, and it blew me away. The first 
 level left you confused at first. Not exactly leaving where the first left off. It techincally 
 did, but does not seem it one bit. The world has been overrun by a new race of aliens. One you 
 did not encounter in the previous Half-life. They've enslaved everyone you love and know. The first 
 level of the game is mind numbing! So interactive! Plus a good chase moment when the city overwatch 
 realises you don't belong in the city, the cops get on your tail! Your favorite crowbar is back 
 I should add. The graphics have been used to a good extent. Giving this is the source engine and 
 we should expect a lot, I'd say they've met my requirements. Sounds are no longer russled and ruffled 
 like they were in the Half-life engine. Lots of new voices too. We aren't just hearing Dr. Kleiner's 
 the whole time! That reminds me, you'll recognize a lot of old faces, Eli Vance, Dr. Kleiner, Barney, 
 and the vortigaunts who were your enemy in the first game, but now ally the humans in defeating 
 the aliens who have overrun Earth. Half-life 2's story is a brilliant one. What's great about the 
 Half-life series and stories, is you have to interpret every huge event. You are never completely 
 told about how deep the story goes, you have to think and hope on what the outcome might truly 
 be. The multiplayer experience of Half-life 2 isn't that great. Most of the servers have been modified 
 by little 8 year olds who like no gravity and instant kill weapons only. It's a drag for a passionate 
 player like myself. Half-life 2 is an amazing single player experience however. So interactive, 
 so eventful, so much depth, so much detail, and the atmosphere of war has never been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  In 1998, a company named Valve created a game that took first-person shooters to a whole new level. 
 Before Half-Life, most first-person shooters were more like Doom in that the main premise was to 
 kill things, grab multi-color keys and perform some minor puzzle solving by hitting switches or 
 escaping from traps to go farther in the game. Well, Valve changed all of that. They added a cinematic 
 opening to pull you into the character of Gordon Freeman. They also added a huge storyline and 
 many plot twists to keep you on the edge of your seat. In fact, there were so much content to this 
 story that they created two add-ons to the game. Both add-ons take a perspective of different characters 
 during the same incident at Black Mesa, the research facility where Gordon Freeman works. Not only 
 did they create an unbelievable single-player experience, but they also created an engine that 
 was still used up to last year to create mods (a way for gamers and/or creators to develop new 
 games out of the games they buy) . Counter-Strike, Day of Defeat and the newest hit Natural Selection, 
 were all originally created using mods. Half-Life started a mod craze, which set the bar for 
 any big time game to have a workable engine so gamers could create these mods. These engines 
 now exist in games like Unreal Tournament and also in real-time strategy games like Command and 
 Conquer: Generals.
  
  Fast forward five years later; Valve announces a sequel to Half-Life. The next year was a long, 
 tedious road for Valve. First there were hackers who stole some source code, and then another group 
 stole a BETA version. Finally, in June of 2004, they announced that Half-Life 2 was moved to the 
 final stages of development and that it was set to release in September. The debugging phases turned 
 out to be longer than expected and actually pushed back the date of release until November. Finally, 
 in November, Half-Life 2 was released with much fanfare. Now that it is out in stores, I have the 
 honor and privilege to review the most anticipated game for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nethrentol
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 1 was a amasing game. I played it so much that i could not stop. I was hooked. But Half-Life 
 2 changed my life. I played this game so much that my eyes bled. This game has amasing graphics 
 and it is fun. Unlike most games they get boring after awile because you are fighting the same 
 enimys over and over. But Half-Life 2 changes that. Almost every chapter a new enemy and gun is 
 found. There are most of the origanal games enemies and new ones. The old ones are like the headcrab 
 and zombies. The new ones are like Civil Protection and antlions. The games wepons are better and 
 cooler than ever and the addtion of more allies is even better. The AI is better and so is basicaly 
 every this else about this game. The games enviroments are spactacular. From slimy canals to creepy 
 Ravenholm, this game will keep you hooked, i garantee it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  For me it's not the massive revolution that HL was and i still hold HL over this game but the Gravity 
 gun gives enough to the game to make it different from everything else. The gameplay is just fun 
 and the game isn't tooo long so wont bore you witht he mechanics. You'll probally pick up garrys 
 mod and have fun on the levels you like and modding them rather than going through the same game 
 again. Graphics:
  
  Very dated now but they still work and don't look too shabby compared to competition atm. The surroundings 
 just look horrible now compared to upcoming/current games but the models are the most amazing you've 
 seen so far untril maybe Crysis comes out.
  
  Sound:
  
  I just loved everything about the sound, the little noises like the whale type thing you jus grow 
 to love and little touches like that. The music tho isn't the greatest masterpeice but it works.
 
  
  Value:
  
  With all the games bundled in with it now, it's very worth it and for CSS alone it lasts for ages! 
 I'm still playing CSS 2 years after release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the follow up to a game which many argue is one of the best games of all time, Half 
 Life. It had a lot to live up to and in many ways they surpass the first game, but it is by no 
 means perfect.
  
  GAMEPLAY 8/10
  
  It is a very exciting game, without spoiling the game I will try and describe what can happen. 
 You can see enemies in the distance, making their way towards you over rooftops and other terrain, 
 enemies burst through doors and there are many exciting parts which involve explosions and fast 
 paced action. You definetly will not be bored. One major let down is the AI. I would have given 
 gameplay 10/10 if the AI wasn't so bad. Enemies basically stand and shoot until you take them down. 
 In other games enemies can change their methods each time you play and it's constantly surprising, 
 not here. Enemies are usually very easy to kill. Overall the story is good and there are many exciting 
 moments, but the AI is very poor for a game of this quality. It is a very linear game and it may 
 look like its a huge world but it really isn't you always end up taking the same path.
  
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  
  I have no complaints about the graphics, with 256 RAM it will still look 
 great. You definetly do not need a high spec pc to enjoy this game, but of course with a high spec 
 pc it makes this game look even better. It's definetly one of the best looking games you will find.
 
  
  SOUND 9/10
  
  I can't say the sound is perfect . Music is ok and the sound effects are good, but it definetly 
 isn't mind blowing. Thats all I can really say about that.
  
  Value 10/10
  
  I definetly believe you should buy this game. It's a very good game, you will find yourself playing 
 it for hours on end. I haven't discussed it here but the online play is fantastic and you will 
 end up spending a lot of time playing the other games that come with Half Life 2.
  ------
  Overall I give this game a 9. It could have been even better if the AI was improved. Giving players 
 the option to complete their mission by going a different path would have added replay value to 
 the game. It is definetly one of the best games of all time though. Fans of the original will enjoy 
 it, people who haven't played the first will most likely buy the first after playing this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok ok. So it took the Valve guys many years to make this sequel and there is a very good reason 
 for that. They set out to make the best first person action science fiction game ever made.
  
  And they achieved it. What is quite amusing is that there is no other game out there that comes 
 close in this genre. FEAR was great but all that did was give us an updated engine. It was kind 
 of an experiment more than what it cold have been. Half Life 2, however has simply changed the 
 way the first person action shooter has become. Amazing action + fluent gameplay + immersive intelligent 
 content = a damn good cpomputer game.
  
  Doom is for stupid people. Half Life 2 is for everyone else.
  
  Prepare to die! (of excitement) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  half-life 2 is a very good sci-fi shooter (first person)
  it's a very good game. The titel is like this, you are Gordon Freeman, you are hold in a prison, 
 after you are 5 seconds in the game, you have to fled, unarmed and without any armor... like the 
 movie run gordon run...
  so you have to run, but you get knocked down by the guards, you think damn, well fortunatly you 
 have some great friends, they rescue you and explain the whole situation, they give you armor and 
 a CROWBAR, you think damn no guns, just a crowbar, well, towords the game evolves you will learn 
 to love the crowbar and make it your best friend, when you are out of ammo, you'll love your sweet 
 crowbar...
  well you have all kinds of weapons, from a crossbow to a plasma gun and all kinds of nice weapons, 
 and you'll have to face lot's and lot's of enemy's from zombies whom you can cut into pieces with 
 your gravity gun combined with big saw-blades, i loved that part. you can also kill headcrabs, 
 i think everybody who ever played half-life hated those, little creatures, who are hard to aim 
 on , but sweet to kill with a crowbar (there you have the crowbar again ;-) )
  and you also have to ride in a car but a very wacky one, a big frame with wheels and a great turbo, 
 i think he runs NOS ;-) , to a big mud-something, it's like a motor-bike with 2 air-filled bananas 
 next to it, and with a big fan behind it, kind of wierd, i would say, buy it and game on!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game kicked the **** out of every shooter (except Doom) I've ever played!!!! The story is 
 impressive and the action is there when you need it.
  There are times when you feel like theres not enough action, but it'll come toward the end of the 
 game, like in Nova Prospekt or when your fighting striders in the middle of City 17!
  The graphics blew me away, they're not quite Doom 3, but pretty close.
  Sound could be a little 
 better, but i cant complain too much.
  
  this game has been one of my favorites ever since i started playing it and i recomend that you 
 get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyebrowless
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  With amazing storyline, gameplay, graphics, and multiplayer (counter-strike) , this game is PERFECT!! 
 Though i dont have a great computer to run this game, i still can see the graphical revolutions 
 that this game starts. It still looks better than many of todays next gen games and the engine 
 was made in 2004! I love the multiplayer. This also has an awesome story that fleshes out into 
 what could be a New Yorks best seller. i love this game and it is well deserving of being with 
 OoT as a AAAA game. The final sequence is the best play ive ever done, it beats out every other 
 sequence and anything... i cant describe it but its the best okay?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodeeman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  At the start the game drops you YEARS after the black mesa disaster, on a train (yet again) driving 
 up to a work labor station. This is more of a way to show off there new Graphics and give you a 
 basic understanding of what was happened, The game play is very top notch, with the Gravity gun 
 later on being a prize turkey weapon, and a awesome tool. One way the grav gun shows off its skill 
 is in the Zombie town (ravenholme or what ever) being able to take the saw bits off the walls and 
 using them to rip apart zombies and cause total Mayhem. Steam really evolved the basic concept 
 into a game built for the gods! now the only problem is the corr dang STEAM account. Many a problems 
 with it, which is a major bummer. But if you get it running, and running well, you will enjoy it. 
 The only bad thing i found with the game, is the lack of weapons, they have your basic weapons. 
 Handgun revolver smg crossbow rocket launcher grenades. and thats really it. but still. i give 
 it a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Exculpator
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  After a few years of waiting to play the coveted game i finally got a chance to on my brand new 
 computer. Even during the installation procedure i was drooling, desperate for some hl2 action. 
 So i start the game, from the beginning and brace myself...
  
  That wasn't so bad, wait a sec isnt this half life 2? THE half life 2? sure, the graphics are good 
 but come on... its not REAL like i heard it was. So after the disappointment subsided i began to 
 embrace the game's unique features, like how realistically animated and believable the character's 
 were, and how menacing the combine were made out to be. As soon as you step off the train you are 
 hit with the real meat of the game, The physics and lighting. Papers and empty chinese take away 
 wrappers sway past and.. whats this? you can pick them up? AND THROW THEM!? Incredible.
  
  Desperate to admire the rag-doll physics i roam around looking for something to kill, too bad it 
 takes nearly an hour until your first fight, but its absoulutely beyond a doubt worth it. Enemies 
 recoil and react to specific body parts as you swing your trusty crowbar and crumple to the ground 
 realistically twitching before finally dying.. wow, that was COOL! the gun mechanics aren't half 
 bad either, each gun is unique with various attributes and fire power and the realistic sheen on 
 your hand-gun as you step out of the water shall enduce drool even in the toughest of gamers.
 
  
  About 1/4 way into the game you comandeer your first vehicle. Well, i never thought the idea of 
 vehicles in first person shooters would work... but oooohh how wrong i was. Its just like walking 
 and even more responsive and its at this part of the game where the physics really comes into play 
 as the boat topples and sways the harder you hit the surface of the water, and the speeds fluctuate 
 as you skim across certain surfaces, aswell as the immense satisfaction you get when you first 
 crush combine cannon fodder beneath your boat is indescribable.
  
  The games physics engine is fantastic, exemplified by the now legendary gravity-gun, you can kill, 
 crush, lift, throw and basically bend gravity to a way in which you see fit, which is what i love. 
 When developers create a game entirely under your control.
  
  Half life 2 may not be the revolutionary game generation changing video game, but its a testement 
 to the incredible fun you can experience by playing games with their own unique formula. A masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wandarkaf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  HL2 IS A ROLLERCOSTER OF EMOTIONS . IS A GAME TO PUT IN YOU SPECIAL COLLECTION OF GAME. JUST PURE 
 FUN AND A GREAT STORY LINE.
  SOMETIMES THE GRAVITY GUN IN SOME PART ARE TEDIUS BUT NOBODY IS PERFECT.
  ALWAYS GIVING SURPRISES 
 ALONG THE WAY, AND FUN PUZZLES WHERE YOUR MIND ITS NOT UNDER A HEAVY PREASSURE, JUST PUZZELS TO 
 GIVE A GREAT CHANGE TO THE WAY OF DOING THINGS IN THE GAME.
  THE SOUND IS JUST GREAT, VERY ENVIROMENT.
  THE GRAPHICS JUS AMAZING IT YOU HAVE THE RIGHT COMPUTER 
 TO RUN THE GAME.
  STORYLINE ONE OF THE BEST II EVER SEEN
  
  I JUST WANNA SAY : SET US FREE FREEMAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the sequel to possibly the best first-person shooter ever made. The original Half-Life 
 is the winner of over 50 awards for Game of the Year and more since it's release in 1998. Released 
 in 2004, Half-Life 2 had some very high expectations to live up to, and in most peoples opinions 
 it did, although nowhere near as ground breaking as the original Half-Life.
  
  Half-Life 2 picks up sometime after the original Half-Life, assuming you made the choice with the 
 infamous G-man that you'd work for him (if you chose to resist, you died anyways) . The game immediately 
 thows you into a place.. a city rather, that is far from what you are used to in Black Mesa. The 
 story begins with you (Gordan Freeman) getting off of a train in City 17. The game doesn't lead 
 on as to why you are here or what exactly is going on, but you can clearly tell that there is some 
 kind of serious oppression going on there. Right down to the Gestapo-like Combine who will go so 
 far as to beat you if you get too close to them. From this departure, your adventure begins to 
 find out what exactly is going on, and how you will manage to get out.
  
  Half-Life 2 sports a very impressive new graphical engine to pump out some extreme detail and realism 
 into this game. All though the graphics are top of the line, the real star of the show is Half-Life 
 2's new Havok physics engine. Nothing adds realism to a video game better than bodies and objects 
 set to this engine to give almost everything in the world of City 17 a life-like feel. Another 
 thing that you may or may not notice is that in addition to physics engine, is the fact that eveything 
 supported by it also has a unique mass. Sometimes you may find yourself trying to break your fall 
 by landing on some boxes, only to find out that Gordan's weight is greater than the boxes can support, 
 and you'll go crashing through them. Half-Life 2 sounds absolutely amazing. All the sounds are 
 believable, everything is as it should be. Although Half-Life has never had background music throughout 
 the length of the game, it has always had short scores play at key moments of the game to add a 
 somewhat cinematic experience without taking you out of character. This still holds true for Half-Life 
 2. The game's score is magnificent. The music in intense as ever and always chimes in at the most 
 perfect moments.
  
  What should also be mentioned about Half-Life 2 is the value of the package. Half-Life 2 will probably 
 take most people 15-20 hours to beat (unless you rush through it, but what fun is that?) . When 
 that's done, Half-Life 2 comes with one of the biggest updates to the biggest online FPS of all 
 time, Counter-Strike: Source. CS: S is Counter Strike brought up to today's standards using the 
 Source graphic engine and the new Havok physics engine. It adds a whole new experience to the original 
 CS and is all around better than the original (unless you are a 1.6 faithful) . So all in all, Half-Life 
 2 is pretty much a must have for any Half-Life and FPS fan. A truly great game worthy of the title 
 and a faithful sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  From the minute you start the first level in HL2, it is obvious that its' main feature is its' 
 outstanding graphical performance. The graphics in this game are so good that when people around 
 you are around are having a conversation, it feels like it has emmersed you in the actual game. 
 Now, with graphics aside, none of the other feature points in HL2 are shortcommings either. The 
 sound is top notch and the gunshots all sound different and amazing. The music always fits the 
 situation, whether it's eerie or fast-paced action, you will be impressed. The gameplay is amazingly 
 fun aswell. the best part of gameplay is the use of the gravity gun. Almost everything is interactive 
 and can be picked up and fired with the gravity gun. The value is great. I think that this game 
 is worth every dollar that it costs. Overall, I think that this is one of the few games out there 
 that breaks new boundaries in ALMOST every way. Yes, I said ALMOST every way. The two main shortcommings 
 are 1. The game is way too easy, and 2. The storyline is a bit dissapointing and leaves alot of 
 questions at the end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgodalming
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 puts you back in the Haz-Mat suit of Dr. Gordon Freeman. The game opens approximately 
 10 years after the events of Half-Life, but Gordon has been out of commission for the whole time, 
 as you find out when the G-Man wakes you up and deposits you on a train headed into City 17a fun 
 throwback to the opening of the original Half-Life.
  
  For the first 10-15 minutes of the game, Gordon just wanders around with no weapons or armor, exploring 
 a train station. Once again, you can converse with NPCs of all sorts. The good guys offer cryptic 
 remarks about City 17 and something called the Combine. The bad guys come after you with shock 
 sticks. I can safely say that HL2 has the coolest opening scenes of any game I have ever played, 
 and all without including a cinematic sequence.
  
  In addition to the graphical overhaul, HL2 boasts the famous Source Engine, which allows for realistic 
 physical interaction. Nowhere does this appear more impressively than with the new Gravity Gun. 
 This weapon allows you to pick up lighter objects and blast them at walls or enemies, and you can 
 also use a lightning-looking beam to shove much heavier objects about, like your vehicles. Yes, 
 Gordon now gets a dune buggy and a propeller-powered boat to tool around in during several sequences 
 in the game. These serve to make the world of HL2 feel much larger than the dungeons of the original 
 game, as well as add diversion from combat.
  
  The story of HL2 is just as intriguing as the original, though sadly the game lasts about half 
 as long as its predecessor. The last level only allows you to use the souped-up gravity gun, which 
 now can pick up human enemies. Excellent. However, the very ending blows hard. Its obvious that 
 HL2 was originally meant to be a much longer game, but Valve Software does nothing quickly, and 
 they were only able to finish about half of the game, even after a year of delays. Still, Half-Life 
 2 is nothing short of spectacular, and is as fresh to the stale world of first-person shooters 
 as the original was eight years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 blew me away, The graphics, the gameplay, the story, everything about it made me want 
 to play it again...
  
  While using Valves new steam program, A digital store to be simple, I started out with the most 
 frustrating installation ever in a game, simply put one of the worst ways to distribute a game. 
 Not only did I buy the game in stores (lack of credit card) but I also had to wait for several 
 months of updates to download and the issue of my internet sucking at the time.
  But, once the game was fully installed I started the game up, and I had no problems (this about 
 a year remind you) .
  
  Basicly the game stars you as the previous character in the half-life universe, Gorden freeman, 
 a scientiest that somehow happens to be around when all hell breaks loose... In the beginning of 
 the game I never really quite understood what was going on (due to not finishing the last game 
 completely, since I was again, about 2 years late owning it) Besides the complications of not understanding 
 the complete storyline, it was still one of the best. Just the dialog alone made this my favorite, 
 I actually was drawn into the game, making me believe I was there.
  Of course for reviewing sake, Im not going to ruin the story for you, thats for the player top 
 figure out.
  
  Onto gameplay. Simple yet effective is how I would put it, Its your standard run and gun action, 
 not too many puzzles (which were all over the original game) and its fairly easy to control your 
 character.
  The thing that made the gameplay were the physics, The physics engine in Half Life 2 is one of 
 my favorite physics engines, It lets you screw around with objects in anyway you wish, You can 
 pick objects up and throw them (and manipulate them to actually sometimes solve SOME problems Ie: 
 plugging in a turned off machine) The rag-doll physics are quite amusing as well...
  Besides the obvious fact that this is a game where you just shoot things, it does do a good job 
 of it, the AI is considerbly good, while some of the enimy design is quite interesting, as is the 
 well thought out level design.
  
  Now an days people say graphics are everything in a game, somehow I do disagree, Now Half Life 
 2 has some nice graphics, defintly not doom3, but still are Awe-inspiring, Once Valve put in the 
 nice HDR lighting it turned into one of my personal favorite games to look at, in an art fashion, 
 not as one of the best looking games , but defintly up there.
  By using extensive shaders, and lots of bump mapping, along with nice lighting they were able to 
 craft a semi-believable world... Im not really one to go and rate a game on its sound, but since 
 I do some of my recording in my studio, I tend to notice good quality from bad quality, and Valve 
 has done an awsome job with the sounds, besides the fact that some of the guns sound rather weak, 
 and pathitic, the rest of the sounds are really well done (it again brings you into the game)
 
  
  With Half Life 2 it brings another good thing to it, Modding,
  This game is a modders wet dream, with all the things you can manipulate, its sure to bring an 
 endless amount of fun to all FPS lovers everywhere... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobibor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  I really like that game. From the first HL to this masterpiece. Everything is perfect - sound, 
 gameplay, visual and at last the story. All is great. Only the waiting time was a little bit long. 
 But it was worth the waiting. I am a little disappointed, because we must wait (maybe?) another 
 several years for the conclusion of this excellent game. Though the game requires a powerful PC 
 it would still run on most machines on the low video settingis one of the greatest ever computer 
 games. It has innovative gameplay, excellent sound, fun vehicles. Amazing but this game is All i 
 expected and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  It began with Half Life, an FPS that took it to the next level. Physics, puzzles, combat situations 
 you never found yourself in before, a STORYLINE worth playing, and a cleverness that ahs yet to 
 be matched by any other FPS. You're no gun toting maniac from the military, or an assassin, or 
 James Bond, you're a scientist with a degree and you happen to work in a lab where things are about 
 to inevitably go wrong. At first you want to get out, but in the end you help save a few people, 
 kill the bad guy, and become imprisoned by the G Man.
  
  And it gets better.
  
  In HL2 you're brought to a whole new level on all of the fore-describbed. The physics this time 
 around are simply amazing and play an important role in many of the situations you find yourself 
 in during game play. Crush an enemy with a barrel, or a car, whichever you prefer, or simply run 
 them over of blow them up. In response, your enemies will use tactic against you- blowing down 
 doors with grenades, sniping at you through windows, flushing you out, or just plan out overwhelming 
 you with massive zombie overload.
  
  Out side of the stunning world you get to play in and the detailed indoor envrinments, you also 
 get a face full from the character interations. The way they speak, gesture, and react are so life-like 
 that you may at times forget your playing a game. In the very beginning of the game this is evident 
 when you disembark from the train into a station filled with refugees that will not only react 
 with you, but with each other. The AI is smart too, and when in combat with some of these NPCs 
 at your side they will aid youby not only shooting downthe enemy but also providing you with extra 
 ammo and health when you need it, AND they will do the same for one another. HOT!
  
  And the plot it still there. The G Man is still lurking about, and might I add in sensation detail. 
 The zombie problems that started in Black Mesa have yet to be solved, and are in fact much much 
 worse! Ravenholdt is a creepy freakin place! And the Combine is on the back of your every footstep 
 waiting to take you down. It all culminates as you play to.... A CLIFF HANGER! Woot! PLOT! I love 
 it.
  
  Its a fresh and revolutionary FPS. New weapons that will obey the same physics the world enjoys, 
 as well as summon some peculiar bug friends, take everything to a new level. New zombies, and the 
 Combine themselves, make for interesting and challenging foes.
  
  In the FPS world, nothing else compares. Not even Halo. Halo is merely following in HLs footsteps. 
 Followers! The graphics, the engine, the game play, the physics, the PLOT, the fun, the zombies, 
 the combine threat, the impossible battles that will keep you frustrated, are all in HL2. Play 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whateve_r
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Half Life is a truly classic game! I remember playing it back in 1998 when I had my old PC which 
 was a P3 with its onboard graphics. I could play Half Life with charm. The single player was intense. 
 It was filled with soldiers, head crabs, zombies and your trusty crowbar. After having played the 
 superb single player of Half Life I wanted more and more of this classic game. Valve released a 
 handful of add-ons like Blueshift and Opposing Force but the true sequel for Half Life 1 wasn't 
 in sight. All this changed with an announcement in 2003 that the game would get a make over with 
 advancements in graphics, physics etc. The sequel had run into a lot of trouble after Gabe Newell 
 (CEO of Valve) had announced the games release date as September 2003. It's lawsuit with its publisher 
 Vivendi and the theft of the source code had delayed the game for over a year. The game has finally 
 arrived and this is what I have to say about it:
  Akshays Review
  
  Were back playing with the MIT trained scientist who is voiceless and faceless throughout the 
 whole game. After the mysterious happenings in Half Life 1, Gordon Freeman finds himself waking 
 up in a train station in City 17. It seems that the Combine, an advanced alien race with deadly 
 vehicles and weapons at their disposal, now controls earth. Representing the human race is the 
 former administrator of the Black Mesa facility, Dr. Wallace Breen, whose message of subservience 
 and appeasement blares over loudspeakers and televisions everywhere. The game starts of with you 
 being let off in City 17 without any identity, but soon you meet your old Friend Barney from Black 
 Mesa. He helps you meet your old friend from Black Mesa Dr. Kliener and also his ever-so lovely 
 daughter! The game starts off just like Half Life 1. You are left off to explore the surroundings. 
 You see how the physics system in this game works. It is almost like real life. You can drop a 
 bottle from air and it will break but if you drop it close to surface it won't break. You can pick 
 anything up and that is in your power. Once you start off with the game you will be immersed in 
 it for long hours since the game goes in a long sequence with no cut scenes, you come to know what 
 happened on Earth from people you meet during the game.
  
  The level design is very good and the buildings look like the ones in the European cities. There 
 are levels like Ravenholm which is the creepiest level in the game where sounds scare you more 
 then the zombies. Then there is the vast boat level and the buggy level that shows how beautiful 
 large levels look. The Citadel is also very interesting and you see in this level how the combined 
 army works. Half life 2 also has a variety of guns with its own unique capabilities. In the beginning 
 you are given the trusty old crowbar which you use to get out of certain obstacles. Later in the 
 game you get hold of the pistol, Machine gun with a grenade launcher, a shotgun, cross bow and 
 my favorite weapon of the game the gravity gun. We can probably say gravity gun is the weapon that 
 defines this game; this extraordinary gun clearly shows what the physics engine of Half life 2 
 is capable of. I had great deal of fun using this gun in the game since most of the time I was 
 picking objects and throwing them at enemies, the gun also helps to clear a lot of obstacles that 
 required the use of physics. I wished that game allowed us to use the gun to pick up bodies and 
 throw them early in the game but unfortunately we only get this pleasure in the final stage of 
 the game. To tell you the truth, gravity gun is the most innovative thing I have ever seen in 
 a game.
  
  The game's AI is well scripted and with the combination of smart AI and dynamic surroundings (where 
 everything responds so realistically) that it looks as if a battlefield has come alive. The game 
 has a lot of gunning and running, the game also throws at you some nice puzzles that require you 
 to use the physics engine of the game. During the course of the game you get to drive two vehicles, 
 a type of hovercraft and a buggy. These two parts which require you to use these vehicles forms 
 a huge part of the game. Some of the gamers might be disappointed with the boat sequence since 
 it was stretched too long as you were required to stop in many places to open a certain door in 
 order to pass through the level. But both these vehicle levels boasted the visual power of the 
 source engine on which the game is made. Once you see the water for the first time, you can't admire 
 it enough on how real it looks. It is true the water in Farcry was good but the water in Half Life 
 2 looks so real with proper reflections and refractions, but (un) fortunately you cannot see your 
 own face!
  
  Apart from the water, the game looks absolutely astounding. In addition to its detailed textures 
 and water, the expression of emotions on the faces of the characters looks totally real. Their 
 faces are detailed at an unbelievable level and when they speak the lip sync is perfect. These 
 small things make for a very rich gaming experience. But this game does have some of its negative 
 points in the story as the game finishes like Half Life 1 with a cliff hanger ending. Not to mention 
 the tedious installation process. The game requires you to have an Internet connection to unlock 
 it from Steam. It took me around 1 hour to unlock and update the game and I have heard that it 
 has taken people longer. But the process is still worth it.
  
  The cliff hanger ending might leave you thinking that all that effort in completing the game did 
 not give you a proper result. The fate of your team mates is also unknown. Sure they have set up 
 the game for Half Life 3 but keeping you so much in the dark is not a great idea. Half Life 2 has 
 been designed to be very mod friendly so you can expect numerous mods to keep you interested for 
 a long, long time. The game is shipped without a multiplayer feature but it gives a different game 
 to Counter Strike: Source which is a remake of the No.1 Multiplayer game played on earth with the 
 source features. There is a new update that gives you Half life 2: Deathmatch multiplayer.
  
  The game has been in production for more than 6 years, but in the end it was all worth it. 
 Let's hope the next game doesn't take so much long. Adios... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  If you have not been able to experiance the gaming bliss of Half Life 2 for any reason, such as 
 a out-of-date copmuter, than I feel sorry for you. Though it's been out for several years now, 
 Half Life 2 is still in my opinion the best FPS on the market.
  
  The gameplay is classic Half Life, with intense run-and-gun action mixed with puzzle solving. However, 
 becasue of the Source engine's advanced physics system, the puzzles are now much more complicated 
 then simply thrwoing switches or such. As for the run-and-gun, it's extremely fun with a large 
 variety of weapons to use and a bunch of new enemies to kill. The graphics are amazing, especially 
 on high end computers. However, they look just as great on older comps (my computer is pretty old, 
 but the game looks fine when I play it) . Everything in the game has been upgraded, and it all looks 
 so cool. The enviroments are incredibly detailed, as are the weapons and character models. The 
 biggest improvement is DEFINATELY in teh character models, which look like real honest to God humans 
 rather than the blocky things in the first game.
  
  The music in the games is somewhat scarce, but when it does pop up it's pretty cool. Soudn effects 
 play a huge part in the game, especially in sections such as the Ravenholm chapter. The guns all 
 sound cool, and the voice acting is the best in any game I've ever played.
  
  All in all this game kick major butt. If you don't have it, it's about time you found out what 
 you've been missing (cause you've been missing a LOT) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houtx1836
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm assuming you already know a lot about Half-Life 2. Take heed: this review could contain spoiler-like 
 material. For two years I watched this game hold it's price firmly on shelves. It would call to 
 me in many ways: awards, articles and write-ups, friends' praise, and of course - the demo. I always 
 figured this game would drop down to the $20 range. Man, was I wrong. Worse yet, now I realize 
 the time I wasted waiting and not enjoying this game.
  
  Even at 2 years old this game still rocks! Many of you may complain about or loathe Steam, which 
 is required to run this game. Yes, it does suck - but not nearly as bad as other programs such as 
 EA Downloader. It seems it just depends on your luck. A certain percentage of people will defiantly 
 have issues with Steam working properly. Just hope it isn't you. In theory Steam is great. In reality 
 it is lacking. The graphics.... wow! The game may have some age on it but the graphics still shine 
 very bright. Even the imperfections in the characters faces were present. The whole cinematic graphic 
 style of the game was top tier. For me the real stand out was the story line and voice acting. 
 I have never played another game that compares in either of categories. Lou Gosset Jr., Michelle 
 Forbes, Robert Guillaume and Robert Culp show their wonderful talents in HL2. In particular, Robert 
 Culp was amazing as Dr. Breen. The story line rivals that of the first Matrix. No other games can 
 hold a candle to this plot. It's great how the game ends in a cliff hangar. I now regret not playing 
 the Half-Life series in order. Another key strength of this game was the gravity gun. I have never 
 seen anything quite like this original idea. Towards the end of the game you really get to utilize 
 this cool toy. Too bad they didn't design more levels around it. Perhaps HL2: Episode 1 made up 
 a bit for that. I love how the game ends with a cliff- hangar. My only criticism of the game would 
 be the lack of opportunity to explore. With the awesome graphics and stellar views, it seemed I 
 never really had access or a chance to explore the rich environment. Valve seemed to want us on 
 a path (an epic one indeed) and had no plans for any player deviation. Overall, the game is a outstanding 
 masterpiece. It's a clear must own. So, don't wait any longer to get in on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redphazon2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Gordon Freeman from Half Life is back in Half Life 2 and this time around... he's kickin' @ss. The 
 graphics on this game are beautiful (especially when you MAX everything out) , gameplay is very 
 fun, especially using the gravity gun along with the physics of the game. Sound is awesome and 
 the VOs are excellent. Story is good and it keeps you at the edge of your seat. This is what FPS 
 should be, not just a mindless shooter, it's got to have a story and gameplay to back it up, Half 
 Life 2 being a perfect example of that.
  
  Overall, if you really have the graphics card to max this game out do it, hey, it still looks good 
 at a lower setting. BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickolaslai
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best in all the Half Life series. I have played through all the other 
 Half Life expansion packs and Half Life 2 is the best of the lot. The graphics is just amazing 
 and spectacular. Although this game does have a physics engine, it has some awkward glitches. A 
 good example would be when you pick up a wooden board, and you just have to look down and press 
 the jump button repeatedly and you will be soaring in the air! Besides this strange glitch, the 
 game is overall very good. Characters such as Barney, Eli Vance, Doctor Kleiner make a comeback 
 appearance in the game. Enemy AI is also well done, and NPC's in the game are very realistic and 
 very well modeled. Locations in the game are very interesting and nicely done. Places such as Ravenholm, 
 Highway 17 are my personal favourite places. So if you haven't got this game yet, it's about time 
 you get it and see what you have been missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIGHTHAWKAK47
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  i dont care what all the reviews said but this game is actually the best game i have ever played 
 the physics from a non physics card simulation point are really outstanding the gameplay is as 
 ever sharp and defying and engulfing i mean i just set in front of my screen for hours and hours 
 and couldnt let go i just needed to see the finish
  but the most amazing feature about the game is it's graphic engine i mean how can this be possible 
 it offers next gen graphics wich can be set to max on a ati radeon 9550 gamer's edition 128mb and 
 i was able to run the game on a 866 mhz cpu and a tnt2 32 mb vga.
  this game is still the one to compare to of course waiting for CRISIS hehehehehehe
  waiting patiently 
 for hl2 episode 2 and crisis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The game is gorgeous cutting edge graphics, and a excellent single player mode offering 
 around 20 hours of gameplay. The sound and voice acting of the charecters is great. Vast range 
 of powerful weapons to choose from. The single player is good with some replay value. If you get 
 bored of the single it has great multiplayer. It includes HL2 deathmatch and CS sourse which make 
 it a essential purchase for any gamer. The multiplayer offers endless hours of gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Single player mode can get a bit boring if you already completed it, some chapters take 
 to long getting into. The game is to easy and wont be to hard for any hardcore gamer to finish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say that I'm one of those people that believe that very rarely do sequels surpass the 
 original. I'm happy to say this was not the case with Half-life 2 as it sucked me in right from 
 the get go. The story begins as you (Gordon Freeman) awaken years after the events of Half-life 
 in a post-apocalyptic world where a new alien species called the Combine has virtually conquered 
 Earth. The remaining human survivors are huddled into cities like prisoners and it is up to Gordon 
 Freeman to take the initiative and help the remaining human resistance battle the oppressing invaders. 
 The graphics are excellent, but the physics is where the game really shines as just about anything 
 can be interacted with. Big explosions toss bodies around like rag dolls and even the objects in 
 the environment can be used as weapons as the gravity gun shows off well. The sounds effects and 
 voice acting is very well done even though we continue to see Gordon to be more about taking action 
 than speaking words. The game is a pretty good length, as it will take about 15-20 hours to beat 
 depending on the difficulty. It offers a good amount of puzzles that utilize the physics engine 
 well as well as many types of versatile enemies ranging from: the Combine infantry to the Ant-lion 
 bugs, which reminds you a lot of Starship Troopers, to the old lovable head-crabs anyone who played 
 the original Half-Life will recognize, and finally to the War of Worlds type aliens called Striders. 
 All in all, Half-Life 2 is definitely a worthy sequel to the original Half-Life and what else can 
 I say besides it was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godhand358
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I think Half-life 2 is better than Half-life 1 because this game is very very very beautiful graphic 
 and have a great sound! and i think is Better than F. E. A. R. and game play is very fun too ! but 
 some stage is bored ( Ravenholm and nova prospeck) a zombie and a fast zombie is very creepy!
 
  
  an enemy wear white shirt is very hard to kill and also they can use a ball that can destroy Gordon 
 in one hit ! and i think some stage is very hard
  
  I like the first stage and a stage that gordon ride a boat i think is very fun
  
  and i think 
 alyx is a beautiful girl (Most people don't think that )
  
  and last if you looking for a fps game that have a Very very very Great graphic
  
  Very fun 
 game play and enemy is hard to kill then you will buy this game! I like Half-life 2 I like Gordon 
 freeman ANd I like Valve studio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpmf
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  ok for milions of gamers half life was a game that considered a great game and many think until 
 now that it was one of the best games ever.
  and after 6 years of hard work and a sea of problems half life 2 the continue game was done. ok 
 and many people were waiting for this game and i can tell you it was worth to wait because this 
 game was a complete success.
  
  ::::::::::story::::::::::
  ok also like always you get into the shoes of the scientist Gordon freeman.
  its starts with 
 a little ride in a train and comes to city 17 an area that looks like a combination of world war 
 2 and a future city .
  but from other cities city 17 is ruled by combine powers.... aliens.
  well while you play this game you wont get into the end of the mistery you will ask your self many 
 questiond about this game and this promise a continue game to half life 2.
  
  you will see many familiar characters from the black mesa like g-man ; barney; and dr. cliner. this 
 game has a great and exciting story.
  
  ::::::::::graphics::::::::::
  half life 2 gives a great world of a scary enviroment no wonder youll get scared when some bug 
 or thing pops out of your floor.
  the levels are very cool some of them reminds some levels from far cry.
  youll see that in each 
 level youll go from land to sewers and lakes .
  every level show the beauty of the graphics there.
  youll get impressed when youll see the water 
 effect {ave you ever seen so realistic water in your gaming life???} .
  
  ::::::::::gameplay::::::::::
  the gameplay is awsome youll have to anwser many problems like 
 put an engine into a car and it would open a gat or climbing threw cans to go to the next area. 
 in the way youll get so excitet you will not notice that you are going threw sewers killing flying 
 bugs and driving fast cars.
  youll get into cool missions like driving a buggy or driving a raft and while escape from a helicopter.
 
  but in some mission and thats whats the most good at the game. for exampale in one level youll 
 have to jump from place to place because if youll touch the ground many bugs will pop of the sand.
 
  you will kill many scary and strange creatures we already told about the bugs but what about zombies 
 spiders combine and of course the big spider that has a size of bullding.
  also ytoull have many ways to kill the enemy from a pipe to a weapon that controls the bugs
  
 
  ::::::::::sound::::::::::
  well i cant tell you anything about it the sound is so great that you will fell that your inside 
 the game.
  
  for the end i just have to say that this game is great and i think i can call it the king of gameplay.
 
  i highly reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Distortion_Lane
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 never lets up, never gets repetative, and is polished to death. One problem is steam... 
 screw steam! But oh well who cares.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Physics
  +Every gun is different and extremely balanced
  +Difficulty just keeps on steadely rising +Gameplay 
 always changes by either giving you a new toy to work with or a new enemy to face
  +Very solid with minnimal glitches
  
  Graphics:
  +Great design and art
  +Textures
  -doesn't 
 look so great at times (but rarely)
  
  Sound:
  +Good voice overs
  +Guns sound distinctive
  -annoying headcrab sounds
  -more ambiance would do the game good
 
  
  Value:
  +GOTY EDITION comes with HL1 and SC!
  +10-15 hour SP plus Death Match This is one game that's truly revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screamingchimp
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is regarded by many as being one of the best PC games ever, if not the best.
  It has amazing graphics and is brilliantly innovative. The world where freeman resides feels real 
 and breathing, The character design and facial expressions are ground breaking and lifelike and 
 the gravity gun and physics are a stroke of genius.
  
  Gameplay, in my opinion, is where this game falls short.
  Although the world is immersive, its 
 just not that fun to play and the shooting (which, being an FPS, plays a big role) just feels mundane 
 in comparison to any other half decent FPS.
  
  So if youre the type of gamer who likes to become attached to a wonderful, story driven gaming 
 world, who loves to appreciate the scenery and marvel at brilliant animation, i strongly recommend 
 Half life 2.
  
  Dont get me wrong, this is a good game, i just dont think it deserves all the praise it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Umgar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  By now, nearly two years after its release, I don't have to convince you to go play Half-Life 2. 
 You've either already played it, or you never will. For those of you who have already defeated 
 Dr Breen I invite you to step into City 17 one more time.
  
  For me, a mark of a truly great game is extended replay value. And I'm not talking forced replay 
 here. Games that make you complete things over and over to unlock extra content don't sit well 
 with me. In fact I'm more likely to toss those games in the ebay pile out of spite. Half-Life 2, 
 however, is worth a 3rd, 4th, even 5th play through. Thanks to the amazing detail in the level 
 designs you are guaranteed to notice something new every time you play it. And the physics engine 
 which drives the game coupled with the handy gravity gun make for virtually endless ways to re-experience 
 the content in the game. Try playing through the game using *only* the gravity gun and pistol (yes, 
 it is possible) - totally different experience and tons of fun.
  
  If Half-Life 2 has been collecting dust in STEAM since early 2005 then do yourself a favor and 
 fire it up again. Trust me on this, you will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  No matter what I've heard from others I can't seem to feel that there's any other game that would 
 give me so much fulfillment in playing! and when you think your tired of playing it, the MOD community 
 give's it life over and over again! Yes there has been times I said, Well maybe it's time to let 
 go and BANG, I'm rright back as Dr. Freeman scouring the dead plains in search of truth and righting 
 the wrong... Ok, a little dramatic but it's what HL2 delivers in graphics, audio affects, it's 
 3d realm of rag-doll-affects and for the never-ending plot to rescuing Alex... Just an Awesome 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channel_1231
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is one of the best games i have ever played.
  From the moment you see G-man's face you cant help but just stare at the incredible detail in the 
 game.
  From the moment you arrive in city 17 you can see the five year wait was worth it. Every single 
 object in the game is rendered in the best detail and all backgrounds are 3D and not like a cardboard 
 cut-out and with all NPC's you can zoom in and see all the facial muscles move in real-time.
  The environments in the game are all varied and you never revist an area twice.
  To be honest 
 you dont need to have played the previous half-life games to understand this as each NPC explains 
 who they are anyway and you will find out what happened in the prevoius games.
  The sound is amazing with brilliantly acted voices, sharp guns sounds and explosions, 5.1 or 7.1 
 is the best to use.
  A new feature to this game is that you can use vehicles, this is handy but they are only avaliable 
 in certain parts of the game. br /&gt;
  All the classic monsters from the previous games are here, in the new engine. The headcrabs and 
 zombies with headcrabs are included along with some new ones which can be hard to kill.
  You will meet various old faces from the prevoius games along with some new ones who will help 
 you along and provide guns and health packs for you. The AGV suit is back and you can still charge 
 it up to provide you with armor. The weapons are very varied, they range from your classic crowbar 
 and pistol to a gravity gun, the name speaks for itself.
  The game will take a good 10-15 hours to complete on average, so if you do complete the game and 
 you are a fan of multiplayer then you can take half life 2 online with half life 2: deathmatch and 
 challenge people around the world, all weapons are avaliable here to use but not the veichles. 
 One last good feature is that the game is compatible will machines at least 5 years old. It only 
 needs a directx 7 card at least to run, you lose all the pretty environments and detail but if 
 your not fussy with the graphics it does'nt matter because a machine that old can run it in medium 
 detail.
  All in all half life 2 is one unmissible game, it combines first person shooter with puzzle and 
 adventure themes to create and interactive detailed world, with superb ai, in which your moves 
 affect the world and affect how all soilders react with you in the way of fighting you.
  If you have'nt played this yet then do!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  Ok here we go, I finally had bought this masterpiece! Last time I was playing the game from Half-Life 
 series was...... I don't even remember the year..... nevermind. Lets start from the Graphics. It 
 is amazing! Such a beautiful landscapes and realistic world (ofcourse it is Havok after all!) . 
 The picture is beautifull and at the same time easy for your video card! My FX5600 run it easily 
 on all max, 1024x748 and min antislising. All things in the game are like in real world! Good work 
 dev team, you make us proud of playing this game. Sound: sound is just GREAT! All the world around 
 with it natural sounds plus the sounds of shoot out and enemies! The real example of the high quality 
 of sound is the sound wich is comming from the flying knife robots (you know that flying things 
 with the red light) . The sound when they are moving on you and after the kick fly away..... it is 
 so real! I have dolby surround system with 4 speakers and the sound is the thing that makes me 
 enjoy this game! Gameplay: There is nothing to say much about it. It is classical Half Life game 
 - plain and simple! Even the sounds and some actions are the same. The only thing that was changed 
 or to be said correctly - added is the new grab-object future. You can take in your hands different 
 crates, barrels and use em as barrikades or shields or just to take em out of your way. In total 
 the game is the one you should not miss. I am sure you had heard thousands of things about it but 
 still the game is like an idol for all other first-person shooters. Buy it and play it! The game 
 is worth of it!! Tahir Yazon Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastiling
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is fast, beautiful, and Hooking . If you plan on buying anything buy this!
  
  The Guns, brill
  The Graphics, Brill
  The Gameplay, Bril
  The Storyline, Brill
  The Realism, 
 Brill
  The Everything, You Know it!
  
  You can see the Splash effect of the Water. The dirt Kicked up by your feet. Every item has Wieght 
 classification, every action effects the AI of the game. The Time i can say Perfect in Every Way! 
 .
  
  If youve played the Original, then you have no choice (Gun Point) to buy this one. The Extra Factor, 
 The Gravity Gun, You know its cool, you got no bullets, pesky sniper. Why not use the gun to move 
 objects like Boards of metal cans in air before you! Or better pick up a razor blader and lob it 
 at the Sniper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayur_digitized
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  Its Valve's misfortune that Far cry was released a few months before Half Life 2 and it set the 
 standards to an almost unbreachable level. Having said that, HL2 comes remarkably close but not 
 close enough. Its one of the most engrossing games available and has the best gameplay ever. Graphics 
 are neat, remarkably detailed (the buildings and water are extra ordinary) . The puzzles you have 
 to solve to complete the missions are somtimes challenging and fun to crack. The use of physics 
 engine is just brilliant ( in one level you have to use a crane to move your vehicle from one place 
 to another) . The gloomy atmosphere of City 17 is captured remarkably through peoples' emotions 
 and the general atmosphere. Gravity gun among weapons, just rocks. One level which stands out is 
 Going to Ravenholm (or something like that) which is the scariest level I have ever played and 
 makes you forget DOOM3 and FEAR. The game is paced in cinematic style. But still you cant make 
 anything out of the story which is confusing. It ends before you think it should and leaves you 
 craving for more. In short, it has exceeded the expectations which were there before its release. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This was an amazing game. The single player is increadible, just right to follow up the original. 
 Thge story is so enthralling, especially if you played the first one, but it is a good story in 
 its own right. I see nothing wrong with this game at all. The only thing that could possibly be 
 made better is maybe smarter AI, but im not complaining, they arent that bad. It seemed a little 
 shorter than I would like, but then again, its just so fun to play that time flys by when you play 
 it. Over all, I would give it a hell yes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatebugers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Everyone remembers the time they first played HaLf Life. It's a rite of passage in the gaming world, 
 just as playing Goldeneye or Halo. That being said, a sequel to such a legend of a game must live 
 up to it's expectations, or it will end up being like Godfather Part III or the new Star Wars Trilogies.
 
  The game starts off by placing you on a train into City 17, a 1984-esque world controlled by a 
 slcik old man and an alien race known as the Combine. The notorious G-man gives you the introduction 
 to this world, just before he sets you out on the job to wipe them out.
  After you get off of the train, you wander through the City, eventually entering an apartment building 
 being raided by the Combine, and not long after you get your famous crowbar.
  In true HL fashion, the story is presented through the game. There are no cutscenes, which is nice 
 because there is never a serious pause in the action. The story is compelling enough to keep you 
 interested, but nothing really surprising or too original.
  The weapondry is your standard FPS set with one huge entry, the Gravity Gun. Since the Source Engine 
 uses a very advanced physics engine, the guys at Valve were able to use pretty much everything 
 as a weapon. You're able to pick up, launch, and pull objects that aren't nailed to the ground, 
 making every new area a new batch of ammo.
  The level design is really where this game shines. At first, you're brought into a decaying city 
 surrounded by Combine architechture. Later, you get to Ravenholm, where the mutants have taken 
 over and created a giant, night-marish town. And lastly, you get to the Citadel at the center of 
 the city, which is dark and futuristic, bringing much more of a Combine style to the scenery. Most 
 levels are pretty linear, so you never get lost, but you never really feel challenged by a new 
 level. It's a shame, because it made the game a little more predictable.
  As for the gameplay, HL2 is a very enjoyable time. Most combine will be quite insetlligent, taking 
 cover and flanking when they have the chance. When you get to Ravenholm, the mutants act on much 
 more of an instinctual level. Then when you run into baddies in vehicles, they basically keep on 
 shooting you, with the exception of one of the air vehicles, which will shoot down your guided 
 rockets if you can't get it past them.
  Another big factor of the gameplay is the puzzle. There are several occasions in which there is 
 something you must solve, usually involving the physics engine, to open a door or to get on to 
 the next area. What makes this game unique is that since you use the physics of the game to solve 
 the puzzle, there is a bigger level of connection to the game than you would when you have to memorize 
 a key code or you have to put pieces together a la Tetris.
  Of course, nowadays an FPS isn't complete without proper online play. HL2 is no different. Deathmatch 
 is frantic and very unforgiving, but quite an experience nonetheless. However, the weapon set really 
 doesn't make it the best of the genre as far as online gameplay goes. In other words, I believe 
 they try to make a UT sort of game with weapons better suited for CounterStrike.
  This is a game that's beyond worth playing, it's necessary. PC games have no doubt taken a shift 
 for the better, and one could easily say this is the game that started that shift. After all, it 
 wasn't named the PC game of the year for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why so many people like HL2; I played through the first one, than this one. 
 It wasn't fun, it felt like a chore to finish both games. Graphics and physics were good enough, 
 the levels weren't. Boring level design straight from one end to another, with nothing at all interesting 
 in between.
  
  It takes a few games like HL2, Quake 4, and Doom 3 to realize so many FPS are complete junk. But 
 it also helped me further appreciate Halo and how it's single player and storyline was able to 
 set it apart from the other hundreds of terrible games in its same category.
  
  Ok TOO many loading screens for a game that is using PC hardware are unacceptable. World of Warcraft 
 may be a big scam of a game, but you could run for countless hours without a single load screen. 
 Load screens show how terrible HL2 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon727
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very very good story line it is about Gorden freeman is city 17 and you trying 
 to escape. Then you bump into a girl named Alex. she gos to a telaport machine and ends up at her 
 fathers place. then when you go to the telaport machine something gos wrong and you are getting 
 telaported all around then you end up out side if the lad and you have to get to alex's father's 
 place on foot then you get a few weapons the you get a water boat. after a while you get a car and 
 have to drive it to alex's father's place. when you get there you get a gravity gun. then the enemy 
 come the you go to this place called ravenholm. it has tons of zombies. but i don't want to tell 
 you about the rest of the game so find out if you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozporaz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  it took me long long time to finish the game and every minute was pure happiness!
  the source engine is still impressive and looks wonderful. the graphic arts is just good good good. and 
 the physics with the use of the gravity gun is more then satisfied.
  the story is good and solid, but why gordon is not saying one word i don't know, and it's not normal. but 
 even so- the game is flowing, and between riding a motorcycle, driving a buggy and shoot the living 
 hell out of the combines, aliens and other-you will have some puzzles to solve and a good story 
 to go through.
  i played my first time on easy, and i'm going to play it again on normal, and you'll have the after-match 
 to return to, so this game have for sure the replayability option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 had a strange effect on me the whole time I spent playing it. It's definitely a solid 
 game, powered by an impressive engine which creates stunning environments and allows for a highly 
 interactive experience... but it's not quite as good as I had hoped.
  
  There are a things about the game that really stand out as impressive, like the Gravity Gun or 
 some vehicle sequences, but there are also many problems, specially in terms of pacing and story. 
 Characters are under-developed and although the voice acting is decent, it feels a bit flat. The 
 main character, the famous Gordon Freeman, is still quite a puzzle, which isn't a plus. You play 
 as him, view the world through his eyes yet you know close to nothing about him. The world itself 
 isn't too developed either, a bit of lore scattered around would have helped a lot.
  
  Another thorny problem is pacing, probably the worst of them. The action is often interrupted by 
 loading screen and under-developed puzzles (which are somewhat fun to play once because of the 
 Gravity Gun but ultimately are just filler moments) . I always felt that these interruptions kept 
 me from enjoying Half-Life 2's excellent combat. Just as your adrenaline level starts to climb 
 you get a "loading" message. It's really a shame because Half-Life 2's combat is really spectacular 
 (except for a few glitches with the AI of followers, but those sequences are short) . It has a fine 
 selection of weapons and thanks to the Gravity Gun you can get really creative with the environment.
 
  
  So, basically, Half-Life 2 is a solid game but pacing problems keep it from achieving its full 
 potential. It's still highly recommended though, so go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootFetish24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  One word
  
  Amazing.
  
  This game has extremely good graphics and sound. You feel immersed into the action and environment 
 is amazing. The graphics is still state of the art after 2 years and the sound makes you feel like 
 you are getting shot at. The game play is awesome, the same old fashion thing with a twist of the 
 gravity gun which can manipulate objects to your will. you can throw them, build something or even 
 catch.
  
  The value is amazing because there are so many mods and not to mention one of the best multiplayer 
 fps, counter strike source. If you are going to choose one game for the rest of your life it might 
 as well be this. This game requires quite a good rig to run it at max graphics and max resolution.
 
  
  Amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradise19
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 has the immersiveness, the suspense, action, storyline and graphics. You don't need 
 to have played the previous (very old) game to know the storyline. The game takes place 1980's 
 (i think) in some eastern European city. The world has been taken over by an alien race and the 
 city 17 (the one your in) is supressing the general populace. You are Gordan Freeman, a resistance 
 leader who takes the fight to the enemy. The gameplay is fun and the guns are creative. The graphics 
 are amazing for a game that is 2 years old. The levels are fantastic and the single player takes 
 perhaps 20 hours to beat. The only problems i have with the game is that the ai are way too predictable 
 and many animations feel too scripted and stiff . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realmanishere
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game take firts-person shooter to next level, Introduce the plot during gameplay but not by 
 some stupid-movies that take your time from gameplay, Action blow you away, creatures combines, and 
 machine-guns that that fit the game perfectly. I also liked the way the introduced humanity in 
 this game, I felt like I'm not fighting for some new weapons or ammos, and actually for the people 
 that lived in that city. Character animation is the best in the world and graphics incredible. 
 I liked how they introduce might of the city with harshness of the enviroment, It's all look realistic 
 and the way characters interact with you it's not game like any other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackctu
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2
  
  There is not much I can say apart from YOU HAVE TO BUY IT!! 
  the storyline is amazing put you have to have cleared Half-Life 1 to under stand most of the story.
 
  
  If anyone says Ravenholm is scare its not.
  
  My Scores And Why.
  
  Gameplay 10
  Why?: Lots to do, Throw  and much more at enemys 
 and kill em, and your friends on muitplayer ( Throwed a TV at my friends head and he died ^^) you 
 also get Counter-Strike Source, the amazing squad shooter with it, Half-Life Source is Half-Life 
 1 but updated with Source Engine used to run Half-Life 2 so you can learn all the story with this 
 package, Half-Life 2 Deathmatch is what I said above about the TV. You can also download mods for 
 Half-Life 2 like the classic Goldeneye for N64 but updated with Source Engine, so you can run round 
 you fav map back in them days with updated rock refecletions and water refecletions and much more 
 inprovements.
  
  Graphices 10
  Why?: Source Engine is Amazing, its so good i cant descibe it take alook at the screenshots here 
 on gamespot.
  
  Sound 10
  Why?: The Sound Effects on weapons, fire, granades everything is amazing.
  
  Value 10
  Why?: 
 I payed &pound;25.00 and I got all that I explained in the gameplay selection and am glad I did 
 get it.
  
  Thank You For Reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I just recently played Half life 2 over again after having played it since it was first released 
 back in 04. The computer I played it on then was a p3 800 ghz so the load times were a pain. After 
 having played it again the only real problems with the game are its linearity which does work somewhat 
 in its favor and the loading in between sections which takes you out of the game. The game is a 
 fantastic game though which really immerses you in its world. The level design is so creative in 
 some parts it just makes me amazed how they thought up this stuff. The graphics are some of the 
 best in video games from the beautiful outdoor enviroments to the incredibly realistic character 
 animation and expressions. The sound effects are extremely well done to with weapons sounding somewhat 
 as they should while others sounding a little underpowered. The voice acting is exceptional with 
 great dialouge between the characters that most of it feels natural. The gameplay is great with 
 alot of puzzles scattered throughout the action sections where you use the games physics to solve 
 which are a big part of the game. The weapons in the game all have there usefulness to unlike some 
 games where you will favor one weapon completley this game all of them can be used in different 
 situations. The way they designed the levels feels realistic like deserted areas where headcrabs 
 and other monsters lurk away from the combine soldiers. Other times you find outposts set up in 
 former residents apartments with combine computer terminals and supplies. Half life 2 is definatley 
 ranked in the top 10 shooters of all time. Now Im on to Episode 1 to see whats thats like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 has already been out for a year, and since this review is so late in coming, I wont 
 belabor all the amazing aspects of the game that have already been thoroughly covered in countless 
 other reviews. In fact, given the common knowledge factor of Half Life 2s greatness, I actually 
 considered not writing a review at all, and just posting a rating. But I decided to put something 
 together anyway, with a three-fold purpose: First, since I gave HL2 a 10, and since a perfect score 
 should be an extremely rare occurrence, I think a reviewer is obligated to provide his or her reasons 
 for doing so.
  Second, since all the important aspects of the game have already been examined (or maybe I should 
 say exalted) to the level of dead-horse , I felt like mentioning a couple of specifics that I 
 personally took note of, which may or may not be of interest to others.
  And finally, in the same way that I like to hear myself talk, I like to read my own writing.
 
  
  Now personally, I always try very hard NOT to give out a 10, as this could imply theres no room 
 for improvement, and as we have all learned from our mothers, that is never the case. But in this 
 particular situation, I think a quote from Mr. Spock from an ancient Star Trek episode sums it 
 up best. (Ahem)
  
  I have never seen perfection, but no woman ( read game) could ever come closer.
  
  And 
 thats certainly the case here. The graphics arewellyou already know about the graphics. Sound 
 is of an equally high caliber, including superb voice acting and a musical score that rivals any 
 Oscar-winner. Advanced character development gives more depth and personality to these folks than 
 a lot of the people I work with. Story line, game-play, mechanics, weapons, enemies, environments, 
 immersive qualitiesall exceptional. Honestly, I tried to find something wrong, I looked for some 
 kind of significant flaw, but there was simply none to be found. And after playing through a sixth 
 time and still finding myself thoroughly entertained, I had no choice but to give Half Life 2 a 
 perfect 10.
  
  Being unable to find any glaring deficiencies, I have to resort to nit-picking. My one minor gripe, 
 one of those personal specifics I mentioned earlier, is not unique to Half Life 2. Indeed, its 
 a pet peeve of mine for any game that utilizes some kind of squad-based element anywhere in the 
 story. When, oh when is some developer going to create a team mate that STAYS THE HELL OUTTA MY 
 WAY ?? I cant tell you how sick I got of hearing Excuse me, Dr. Freeman, or Sorry, Doc, or 
 my personal favorite, Let me get out of your way (yes, please do) . I swear, there were times 
 I considered ordering them all out directly into the line of fire, just to be rid of them. Unfortunately 
 I couldnt bring myself to do that, since Im a real bleeding-heart, and feel an almost anal compulsion 
 to keep all my squad-mates alive (I actually get a sense of failure when one of them dies) . I know 
 this complaint is sort of petty on my part, but I had to find SOMETHING to file under Recommended 
 Improvements.
  
  On the flip side of the coin is one of my favorite little gems in the game; the ant lions, or more 
 specifically, the ant lions I had control of. What can I say? I LOVE you guys... their selfless 
 sacrifice in my defense never ceased to move me. And in those quiet moments between the frenetic 
 battles, when I had a few seconds to catch my breath and reload, their soft clicking and trilling 
 sounds almost lulled me to sleep. Every time I play, when I get to that point where I have to say 
 good-bye and leave my little insect friends behind, I actually get a little choked up. I wish Valve 
 had incorporated some way for me to reach out and pat their little heads, and say thank you. 
 (sniff.. anyone got a hanky?) I wish I could replace my humanoid team-mates with these fellas.
 
  
  This masterpiece was released at roughly the same time as the other two toughest kids on the block 
 were putting out their own contenders for King of the Ring. And while Doom 3 and Quake 4 both deliver 
 equally stunning visuals, the superiority of the other aspects of the game combine to put a serious 
 smack-down on those other franchise deities, leaving Half Life 2 standing alone as the undisputed 
 monarch of the FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  The first thing that came into my mind when I loaded my copy of half life 2 (HL2 from now on) , was 
 -- these loading times are horrible, definatly something that every games don't want is the loading 
 times. Thats already something bad before we even started. It shows something really impressive, 
 with the beggining showing a clear state of what city 17 has become. The action takes a bit more 
 time to begin then you would expect in a standard fps, but it is still very satisifing. The good 
 part starts when you get the zero point gravity gun. The story is weak, very weak. I think the 
 best level is Dark Energy.. because it gives a bit of a clear to the story and all about it. The 
 zombies were pointless... there was absulutly no reason to have them in the game in my opinion, 
 but fine, they were satisfiying to kill anyway. With all the bad experiance half life 2 still brings 
 a very solid game, with good gameplay and amazing pair of graphics. The sound could get annoying 
 sometimes but the game is good, for a short while of time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behony
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  it is hard to set the bench mark for great games but valve did it again.
  this is probably the best game out there. very intellagent design in every aspect. extreamly exciting 
 gameplay never gets boring. very very immersive, you feel like you are gordon freeman. music comes 
 in always at just the right time. it is hands down my favorite game ever and is a must get! it 
 is hard to say if it is better then half-life 1 but i would say in alot of ways it is, in others 
 as good as.
  the only thing is its too short. only about 10-12 hours of play. it should have been like 30-60
 
  ive played it at least 10x already 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drezere
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Ultra realistic graphics, perfect sounds, an history that flows with the action, pretty locations, 
 creative puzzles, chalenge enemies, inteligent engine, pretty realistic A. I. i can even feel the 
 weight of Freeman&acute; s body. Im a great fan of the series, so my parciality for this review 
 is a bit suspect. anyway, a masterpiece.
  i used ti feel a little lonely playing first person&acute; s, and repetiton sometimes got me bored. 
 but this one... is diferent from all 3d games i have already plaied. in fact i felt like inside 
 some hollywood summer hit! everything happens with a naturaluty thata amazes me! the interaction 
 with the ambient and with the other caracters is incredible! the expressions, the voices, everything 
 there just mean to be... there.
  sorry the bad speech... just praticing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skinny_man_69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  There are very few FPS' with a lot of variety in maps, weapons, enemies, and vehicles that manage 
 to pull of a game that makes everything fit. Throw in amazing graphics, an outstanding cast of 
 voice actors, some creepy scenes and you have got Half Life 2. The game starts off and right off 
 the get go you will probably be lost in the storyline and you probably won't be any more understanding 
 of it as the game goes along. Don't worry though, the games fast-paced action keeps you coming 
 back for more. The weapons in this game vary greatly from somethings as basic as pistols and assault 
 rifles, to gravity guns and other guns that are just too hard to explain. The level designs can 
 be breath taking especially if you have a higher end PC. The game is pretty easy to run so you 
 won't need a high end pc to pull off exciting features. The visuals on characters faces are probably 
 one of Half Life's strongest point when at some parts they look almost too human. The voice acting 
 makes the characters even more human....... im scared. Anyway..... The only downfall of this game 
 would be that it's a tad bit short and its storyline is not its strong point. But this IS an FPS 
 so who needs storyline. If you're looking for a game that has amazing graphics, fun gameplay, and 
 tons of variety, Half Life 2 is for you because it is easily one of the best games to come out 
 for any system peroid. Oh, and just a heads up for everyone that palys this game.... there is a 
 reason why we don't go to Ravenholm... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetterstroem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Half-Life one revolutionized the First-Person Shooter genre, and while this game is not as revolutionizing 
 it's still an awsome game, one of the top 3 shooters ever. When i first played it i couldn't stop, 
 it has such a variety in it's gameplay, you never get tired of the enviroment. It has everything, 
 from small puzzles to get by certain obstacles to Ravenholm an horror like part of the city, where 
 headcrabs keeps you from going to sleep, god i was frightened when i first played that part of 
 the game. And what about the gameplay? You can pick various things up and shoot them away with 
 the gravity gun, then gun also undergoes a small transformation in the later parts of the game 
 which i won't spoil for you ;) . Anyways the gravity gun is a great feature, and a great way to 
 show off the physics engine, which is incredibly amazing. All in all Half-Life 2 is a game with 
 a great story, great gameplay, great graphics and great online. One of the best shooters ever? 
 Yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezeppelin62
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I am speechless. This game Is just incredible. The music and effects are perfect. The graphics 
 are great, and the gameplay is phenomenal. One thing that really sticks out is the story line. 
 Everything in the story fits perfectly. I love this game. This game goes from happy to sad to scary 
 to revengeful. The controls are good, some parts are quite a challenge and must be tried over again. 
 The story even continues on with Half-Life 2 Episode One, and the next episode will ocme soon. 
 Theres really not much else to say about this game other than: If you have a computer get Half-Life 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  The original Half-Life set new standards for video games of all genres, unlike the rather level 
 based structures of games before its time, Half-Life threw away the long loading screens, the small 
 blocks of texts explaining the story, and the total lack of any storyline progressing scripted 
 events or dialouges. But while it set a standard, few games managed to follow Half-Life's lessons 
 correctly. Instead we received a mish-mash of games that threw in scripted events and cutscenes, 
 and combined them quite foolishly, into a game that would throw you out of the experience right 
 at the wrong moments.
  While we found several good shooters that managed to properly emulate the immersion of Half-Life 
 while adding the traditional cutscenes and cinematics, there were very few that actually took what 
 made Half-Life so great. The unrelenting No time to take a breather cacaphony of chaos that drove 
 you to desperatly blow chunks in aliens from one area to the next.
  
  While many games tried to revolutionize the genre as HL2's predescessor did, none achieved its 
 greatness, it seemed that while Half-Life had taken a hiatus, the FPS genre flourished and died 
 at the same time, it was slipping into a state of mediocrity, just a baseless amount of clones 
 copying off the latest and greatest games. For every Unreal Tournament, or Serious Sam, there was 
 a army of unoriginal and soulless zombified games to follow in their wake, only to die down and 
 re-emerge later as respective sequels were released to the shakers in the industry.
  
  While things were going moderatly well, with games such as FEAR striking terror into the hearts 
 of gamers, or experiences such as Doom 3 bringing back the gameplay of the olden days, there wasn't 
 much going on in the FPS scene, Halo shook the console side of the world with a definite rumble, 
 but by the time the sequel was released, it had lost its luster, only becoming an Oh, it's nice, 
 but it's not as good as the original title. But in 2004, November, Half-Life 2 was released to 
 an excited crowd, hoping that it would live up to the immense legacy of the original. While it 
 accomplished that perfectly, Half-Life 2 only brought another concept to the table that would have 
 almost every single developer emulating the venerable series once again. Physics. Although many 
 games had put use to physics before, it was merely an tool of immersion, tumbling bodies in Max 
 Payne 2, or the environemnt blowing apart. But not until HL2 was the concept of using it as a tool 
 for puzzles, and even as a weapon.
  
  While you could argue that games such as Psi Ops, built open the idea of using physics as a large 
 factor in the gameplay, managed to incorporate it into their games first, it hadn't been done on 
 the massive scale of HL2. Anything that wasn't nailed down, you could most likely pick up with 
 the games self-explaining Gravity Gun, and use as a weapon or a solution to a puzzle.
  
  Half-Life 2 starts where the original left off, after you have eliminated the big daddy of the 
 aliens in Half-Life 1, you're recruited by the G-man to work for him. HL2 picks up around seven 
 years after the original, you, Gordon Freeman, are awakened to a world now enslaved by a mysterious 
 alien race known as the Combine.
  
  Throughout the game, you move on through very well designed areas and tense firefights as you attempt 
 to find a way to stop the total enslavement of the human race. Along with some other freedom fighters, 
 the majority of the game is based around battling with the Combine troops and attempting to escape 
 their overwhelming numbers as well. Level design is fascinating, and the exceptional graphics can 
 only improve the atmosphere that surrounds each little detail in your general area. Models look 
 amazing, probably the best seen in any game at its time. Half-Life 2 uses an incredible animation 
 system that lip syncs dialouge perfectly, and displays emotions so well that it becomes quite creepy 
 at times to see digital characters acting so life-like.
  And the writing only pushes their human-like attributes to a higher level. HL2 has some incredible 
 dialouge, scripted events, and story telling devices molded into a great script that doesn't hamper 
 the pace of the gameplay whatsoever.
  
  Half-Life 2 also shines in the lighting department, instead of the exaggerated lighting or unbelievably 
 dark surroundings of games such as, say Doom 3, the lighting here is perfect, and blends shadows 
 into the environment incredibly well. Once again, the NPC and enemy models only benefit even more 
 from the fantastic lighting, you can see every crease and wrinkle in an NPC's face.
  
  The cast of characters is memorable and very well acted. Characters such as Alyx Vance, and the 
 return of others such as the security guard Barney, all bring a sense of reality into the game. 
 While most of your fighting with other humans will be done with some of the several nameless freedom 
 fighters surrounding the city, you will have an oppertunity to battle your way through enemies 
 with some other unique characters. The most notable could be your escape from Ravenholm following 
 the rather ecentric Gregori.
  HL2 has a wide variety of weapons, and while they don't all pack the punch of a massive rocket 
 launcher, each one is unique, and provides a use of its own. Probably the most entertaining weapon 
 is the gravity gun, which is actually a little game of its own. Nearly anything in the environment 
 can be snatched up with this doohicky, and can be blasted at any nearby enemy. Size and the matter 
 of the object do dictate the kind of damage, so even if that cardboard box is pretty damn big, 
 it's not going to deliver the punch of a nice hefty cinderblock.
  The gravity gun is also used for solving puzzles, and brings a very nice change of pace to a genre 
 that's full of puzzles involving throwing a switch or lever. Even if the gravity gun isn't your 
 cup of tea, there's a pretty nifty little segment near the end of the game where you receive a 
 little thingamajig that allows you to employ some rather vicious aliens into your service.
  
  Along with the great voice acting, the sound effects in HL2 are phenomenal. From the ringing 
 in your ears when a grenade explodes nearby, or the thundering boom of a rocket blowing up in the 
 distance, you will be pulled into the experience like no other game ever has. Each of the guns 
 has an audible punch, and delivers a very satisfying feeling each time you pull the trigger.
  
  Half-Life 2 won't take long to complete, around twelve to fifteen hours at most, and even on 
 the hard diffficulty, it isn't a very tough game, so those looking for a good challenge might be 
 a bit dissapointed. There are segments that tend to be a bit more difficult than the norm, but 
 they are few and far inbetween (although the last segment in the Citadel is quite frustrating at 
 times) .
  Vehicles are included, two to be exact. The airboat is used rather early in the game, and delivers 
 a fast paced exciting romp through an unbelievable tense period of firefights and missle dodging. 
 Also included is the dune buggy, although the segment involving this contraption is shorter, and 
 not as exciting as the airboat.
  
  Once you've beaten Half-Life 2, you can go enjoy yourself on its incredible multiplayer component, 
 Counter-Strike Source, which is a decent revival of an old classic.
  
  All in all, if you haven't played it yet, there's no reason to pass up Half-Life 2, and considering 
 the bargain price, it's a wonder that you could've possibly been holding out this long. If you 
 have the hardware, there's nothing to lose by enjoying the majesty of an exceptional shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman_2006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is arguably the best first-person shooter you can get on the pc. Having not played 
 Half-Life I didn't know the characters much at all but didn't really stop me from playing.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in this game is fantastic. You can pick up every object and throw 
 it at anyone, you can pick up tables, chairs and even toilets and throw them at enemies, and also, 
 the controls are good. The enemy A. I is almost the best in any game ever made.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are the best i've seen on the pc. The characters (alyx, barney ect.) 
 look very realistic and move very realistically. The objects in the game also look very good and 
 the levels are designed very well. The enemies look and move realistically as well.
  
  Sound
  
  The sounds in this game are very good. You can hear the combine talking to each other 
 and you can also hear the zombies groaning. Sometimes you can hear action music while you are playing 
 which is cool.
  
  I must recommend half-Life 2 to any computer game fan, FPS fan because it will be one of the best 
 games you will play.
  
  I give it a 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airrun
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game was a fun game. I enjoyed it all the way through. It's just not anything new, when it 
 comes to fps games. It does its job well, though, by keeping it challeging and having a fun story 
 line. The graphics were good too. However, it's the first game I bought, since updating my pc to 
 current generation hardware. Many other games have already pushed beyond these graphic levels. 
 The game play was top notch for this type of game. The controls were easy to figure out and were 
 not too overwhelming to learn quickly. The sound was great. Good music to boot. I would recomend 
 it for those fps fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesbox
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Even though the game is nearly 2 years old, I think it's awesome. There is a lot of thought behind 
 the game-play. It's not just run round and shoot, you have to think around problems that the game 
 presents and the feel of your surroundings, weapons and enemies change throughout the game. The 
 graphics are excellent, even for a two year old game.
  
  The first thing that struck me, were the physics in the game, Half Life 2 is the first game I had 
 seen to have life-like physics. Objects move and interact as you would expect them to.
  
  This is what first-person shooters should be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inqsolarus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. I was amazed by the first hour and completely sucked in from that point 
 on. The start leaves you completely immeresed in city 17 and what's going on. I love the way characters 
 interact with you thoughout the game and they look wonderful with great lip sync. Some problems 
 I had were that it was too short! I finished it in three days not playing it too much each day. 
 But what was there great. Also the AI isnt as great as i had hope it would be. I actually thought 
 the HL 1 AI was better. This only lets it down slightly though. The number of weapons wasn't huge 
 but the game wasn't that long so you didnt really get sick of them. I found that there was a distinct 
 lack of decent long range firepower as most waepons while rocking up close, suck hard at range. 
 The magnum was good at range but lacked ammo and the crossbow was good but was a great weapon.
 
  
  The best thing about this game is the physics and therefore the GRAVITY GUN which is in my opinion 
 the best gun ever in a FPS! It is so much fun and cool.
  
  Overall.
  Graphics - Great, characters and enemies look great and move naturally for the most part and the 
 lip sync is great. The country landscape can be a bit barren but are nice.
  
  Gameplay - Varied and cool. Awesome vehicle sequences and shotouts as well as puzzles to get through. 
 The game is a bit easy (I played on normal difficulty) . The AI arent great. But good gameplay overall.
 
  
  Sound - Was good with great voice acting. The music ranges from spooky to thumping firefight music 
 which is all well done.
  
  Value - Despite being a bit short the game was great and came with counterstrike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illpiercedninio
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  Where to start? Might as well start at the beggining. Half Life. A game that completely changed 
 the way we perceive first person shooters. A game that set an incredibly high standard that it's, 
 even 8 years later, rarely surpassed by today's games.
  Half Life 2. A simple yet engaging and believeable story that is made even more believable by a 
 realistic way of story-telling. There is no "Why the hell did that just happen?" in Half Life 2. 
 Everything - just - feels - right.
  You start in City 17, several years after the ending of the original game, to find an Earth invaded 
 by aliens who have established a police state with a credible - and scaringly real - brainwashing 
 puppet-goverment. HL2, unlike most games, actually evokes something in you: you see City 17 and 
 you feel the opression; the paranoid and resigned people; the european city and it's monumental 
 Citadel, symbol of fear and power of the dominating alien force. This is in great part achieved 
 by the masterfuly chosen color palette: a mixture of gray, dark blue, yellow and dark orange give 
 life to the most important areas in Half Life 2. The game would be nothing without a correct set 
 of sound effects, which, once again, feels movie-like. From the bass-shattering steps of the Striders 
 - giant biomechanical enemies - to the horrible moans of the suffering zombies to the metallic 
 screams of the Gunships to the voice acting. Oh, the voice acting! I'll tell the truth: I thought 
 one of the characters' voice was a little overdone - but it only stands out because all the voices 
 are fantastically well done and they fit perfectly to each character. With all these well-earned 
 compliments said, there are still some faults in HL2 - like in any other game.
  For example, a particular level feels a little streched out, and may discourage some players to 
 continue the adventure - particularly because it's one of the first levels. Also, the enemy A. I 
 - particularly in Normal and Easy difficulty - doesn't prove to be much challenge in outdoor zones, 
 and this is augmented by the fact that they die "too fast", as in "they don't have enough health". 
 The friendly A. I doesn't work too well in tight quarters because they tend to block your path when 
 you try to run backwards, making you an easy target.
  That said, there are plentiful of moments with perhaps some of the most amazing battles ever conceived 
 in a videogame where you can see the marvelous A. I.
  
  Despise these somewhat minor flaws, the game as a whole overshadows completely what could have 
 been frustrating moments, and instead it leaves you wanting for more - and more, and more... Half 
 Life 2 is a lot like Mozart's Requiem: everyone should listen to it, even if they don't like music; 
 because the chances are, they are probably going to be blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tobiah
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - You get to do everything from blasting aliens with a shotgun to commanding "ant lions" 
 as you storm a prison.
  
  Graphics - At the time this game was made these graphics were arguably the best ever.
  
  Sound 
 - Could have been better. The guns sound kind of weak, like BB guns. Also there is very little 
 music in the game except at key moments. Other than that the sound is solid.
  
  Value - Pretty average value here as far as first person shooter games go. 15-30 hours depending 
 on if you play through as fast as you can or if you take your time and explore every little corner.
 
  
  Tilt - This game was memorable and I enjoyed it a lot but I do feel that it is somewhat overrated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajhu_2003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  This Game owns in history of 3d games. It is given a new style to gamers like driving vechicals... 
 Lot more fun is the decent A. I and Water Effect and Sun effects.. we feel like living into the 
 game. More than the action, the sound.. etc the Graphics and music along with the enviroment take 
 us to a new level.. whenever i play the game i feel like walking those locations of the game. Man 
 everyone should experience this game in Highest graphics. A game that must be played by everyone!
 
  
  The game also has decent weapons with pretty good ammuniation too realistic but the music and graphics 
 is what that matter and also the COOL enviroment! Half-Life 1 was a very lame game with cheap graphics 
 but Counter strike had put forward. Late now Half-Life 2 rocks and Counter Stike: Source has become 
 the Lame one!!! LOL.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wirbelwind1038
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game literally broke the barrier of what could, should, and would be the future of first person 
 shooters. The first Half-life set the new standard in what an FPS should be like, and was rarely 
 met, let alone superseded in any regard. Six years after it's release and success as the best selling 
 game in history to that point, it's sequel, the appropreatley titled Half-life 2, was released 
 and became one of the single most successful PC games in history, and challenged Halo 2 as THE 
 most widely grossing game ever ! I have owned the game for almost 3 years now and still, I play 
 it, and it some how seems to impress me each time I do, even after all this time. It was "next-gen" 
 before the term "next-gen" was even in use. It was boasting real-time physics while most other 
 FPSs were still using death animation scripts. And of course, with it's new source engine, it was 
 the first game to use a full HDR system, and with resent improvements on the system, Source games 
 utilize the most sophisticated HDR system to date. Half-life 2 is THE game that brought me into 
 PC gaming, and even as the years go on, it will remain close to my heart as on of my favorite games 
 EVER !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoberWarock
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is awsome the graphis=Pwning. the Intense=Great it is so good. its action/scary and man 
 that is awsome I prefer this wayy more than doom 3 and this game is good. but damn ONLY ONE DARN 
 PROB. the HEALTH the health is tooooooo realistic I want it to be halo's but down by 50%. the story 
 line sucked in this game I dont really understand it :P the story line needs to be picked up man, 
 Ineed to understand this game. Overall I take 5 points out for health and 5 points out for storyline. 
 and thats all I can think of right now, So far no glitches which is a good thing, the maps are 
 sooooo huge and that gives lots of running space which its pwnage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: napalm_addict
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  ALERT: REVIEW OF GREATEST GAME EVER AHEAD
  
  Half-life 2, Half-life 2.... Is there any way to describe it? The answer to that question is yes. 
 There is a way to describe it, and Ill do my best to do so. First off, this game will undoubtedly 
 please any fans of HL1, and will be just as pleasing to someone who hasnt ever played the first 
 installment. So anyways, the review... My two favorite moments in a games storyline both occur 
 in this game. The first is the beginning, and the second is the ending. When the familiar G-mans 
 face appears on the screen and begins to talk, even though it had been months since I had played 
 Half-life 1, I was instantly brought back to the feeling of mystery, suspense, and thought-provoking 
 intensity of HL1. Rise and shine, Mr. Freeman. Rise and shine. Not that I wish to imply you have 
 been sleeping on the job. No-one is more deserving of a rest. And all the effort in the world would 
 have gone to waste until... well, let's just say your hour has come again. The right man in the 
 wrong place can make all the difference in the world. So, wake up, Mr. Freeman. Wake up and smell 
 the ashes. When you first walk off of the train and make your way to Dr. Kleiners lab, you can 
 tell this is Half-Life, but its been improved, if that is at all possible. When the metro cop 
 knocks the soda can off of the trash can and commands you to pick it up, you can feel the immersive 
 game play that youre in for. When you see Dr. Kleiner, Barney, and Dr. Vance, you feel right at 
 home, as if these computer-generated people know how you feel, and what it was like back at Black 
 Mesa. You quickly fall back into the old tricks of dodging barnacles and headcrabs, and you remember 
 the key places to hit the zombies. As you, through Gordon, see how the Xen have seemingly merged 
 with our planet, you can just feel how ominous everything has become. The game play is fluent and 
 tweaked to perfection. Unlike most games Ive played, there never was a moment in which I said 
 to myself, Darn! I wish this stupid game would let me do this! The game never offers a moment 
 where youre able to say that, because the game is very open. The outcome of an engagement will 
 be your responsibility. In most games, they set you up at each fight so much that youre smothered 
 into doing it a certain way, or dying. But in HL2, you can run in, SMG blazing, pick off from afar 
 with an arrow or rocket, or sometimes allow the zombies help deal with the combine. The tone of 
 the game is also very versatile. When you begin, its just kind of Okay, here I am. Then, when 
 youre being pursued by the Combine, you would like to say something, but youre too busy shooting 
 and moving. Then, when you get shoved into Ravenholme, you find yourself slipping on the keyboard 
 from your cold sweat. You dont want to talk above a whisper to anyone else in the room, for fear 
 of alerting to the zombies. You find yourself hoping that No more of those fast-zombies come back. 
 Then, you get pulled out, back into the main engagement with the Combine. And when you hear that 
 Dr. Eli Vance has been captured, it turns personal. You feel the energy in Nova Prospekt that emanates 
 from its very walls. And when you get back to the heart of City 17 and fight alongside other rebels, 
 you can almost hear the steady drumbeat of patriotism that keeps you and your comrades going.
 
  The storyline is my personal favorite element of the HL series so far. The immersive plot that 
 takes so many twists and turns throughout its path just keeps me hooked and coming back for more. 
 For me, the Half-Life series as a whole is the best game series in the world. Even the ones that 
 havent been made yet; I know that they will be good as long as they are any semblance of the three 
 out now. In short, Half-life 2 is definitely a game that would merit some investment in its purchase. 
 To wrap up, I give Half-Life 2 a 10/10. I find no lacking element of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnank77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  When I started playing Half Life 2, I wasn't an addict First Person Shooter .. I was much more 
 into Adventure games .. Since adventure genre didn't have good title since long, and even whenever 
 available they are really few.. I had to find an alternative .. and there was ! I didn't play Half 
 Life 1, so I didn't follow up the full story, but still I enjoyed every bit of Half Life 2 .. the 
 newest concept here was the gravity Gun .. I loved it !! It really re-defines the FPS genre .. 
 Only one con here, a lot of indoor .. I would prefer it more if there was more outdoor (I heard 
 Episode Two will have outdoor) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Every moment i was playing this game, i was smiling, genuinely. I could not believe how superb 
 this game was, how authentic and how visually spectacular. Nothing, i repeat, NOTHING made me think 
 twice that the game was anything short of the perfect shooter. A gripping plot, a selection of 
 characters that you can CARE about, not just think about, sensational graphics and sound, shocking 
 discoveries and a slight sense of mystery around the Gman and his true agenda.... whatever that 
 may be! That's another thing, the subliminality of this game! On several occasions the Gman can 
 be seen in the distance or in an obscure place, silently watching you play through the game. This 
 makes you slightly paranoid, but more observant of the game environment around you, as you constantly 
 search out where the Gman may be hiding. I cannot get my mind round how perfect this game is, the 
 ending is THE best i have ever faced with a game, it only left me smiling guiltlessly and wanting 
 more, the way it SHOULD be with games!
  
  If you like games... at all, and you don't own this game personally, you ought not really be thought 
 of as a true gamer, because this is the PINNICLE of FPS gaming in all the time gaming has been 
 a hobby, ever!
  
  My ONE SINGLE issue with the game, really isn't with the game at all, it's with the platform you 
 start it with, Steam. This is a slightly pointless program, as it does very little to improve your 
 gaming experiances and it's download servers are insanely slow, while the downloads are often compulsory. 
 However, it does keep some of your games in one neat and tidy place, which i suppose is it's one 
 plus point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlagentdark
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  After i built a new pc, i bought this game shortly after hearing all of the hype about it. After 
 playing it i was so stunned that i've been hooked on fps pc games, this game has great graphics, 
 gameplay, Ai, and sound. Everytime i play this game it never gets old and i am always finding new 
 things in it. The online play is very fun with deathmatches and will have you hooked for hours 
 on end with it, shooting toilets at eachother and what not. So yea if you have a good pc and want 
 to play a great game then buy this now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Obviously I didn't run out like most of the fans of the series, and get it when it first hit the 
 shelves... That may have been a good decision as not only was I able to get the Game of the Year 
 edition which is packed full of extras, but also saved about a third over what the game cost when 
 initially released. I will admit that I am more of a fan of open-ended games like Far Cry, Deus 
 Ex, Thief III, etc. Linear game-play aside, HL2 has a lot going for it... interesting story, Orwellian 
 atmosphere, easy and intuitive interface, great graphics and sound, etc. In other words, much like 
 it's predecessor (which is included in the package BTW) , only better IMO. It definitely grew on 
 me as I got going. I don't want to describe the innards of the campaign too much as half the fun 
 is discovering things as you go. The only point that I really have to knock the game is that the 
 Steam engine MUST be loaded before play, and that in turn requires a broadband Internet connection 
 which is lame if only playing the single player campaign. Furthermore, the initial updates (again 
 required before any play) are large and rather time consuming to download. I really could have 
 lived without that part of it. On the other hand, HL2 does offer truly portable gaming possibilities, 
 as once you create your account, you can conceivably play off of any machine that is connected 
 to the net. Did I mention that the GotY Edition comes packed with extras? Oh yes... on top of the 
 HL2 base game, it includes a special edition of the original game, Counterstrike, Deathmatch 1 
 and 2, and Lost Coast. If that's not enough, then there is a huge mod community as well... and 
 if that STILL isn't enough, then there is Episode 1 currently out and two more Episodes on the 
 way. From the standpoint of sheer value, HL2 is one of the best games ever in this aspect. If you 
 haven't bought the game yet, what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunjak0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Yeah i loved it such a cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool game it even came with half life death match 
 and css a real bargain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omgsephiroth
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Everything I say will just be a repetition... so to save time and effort Hl2 is the best FPS I 
 have played to date. Over the years I have played dozens of FPS's but Hl2 has been the most addicting 
 one. Not to mention superior graphics and excellent game play. Half-life 2 is an instant classic 
 and well deserving of the 10 rating. It is also the most moddable game ive seen, you could literally 
 convert it into a whole different game. In my oppinion valve is a genius for letting people do 
 what they want with their games. Definately worth playing and a must have for the FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterZig
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the best PC Sci Fi FPS ever, along with a great physics engine, it has a drawing story, 
 and memorable game-play moments, this is a must try for any self respecting FPS fan, though you 
 can play the game straight within about 5 to 7 hours, you'll keep popping the disk back into your 
 drive time and time again, along with a good multi-player experience, it also comes with a bonus 
 games like, Counter Strike Source, and Half Life Source, Half Life 2 is definitely all it's cracked 
 up to be and more, it also comes with the classic wepons from half lfie like Gordon's trusty crowbar 
 from black mesa, the game also introduces a couple new wepon's, like the gravity gun, which gives 
 the player the ability to manipulate objects, which is pretty fricken cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzaneski
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game has so much to it. The moment I saw G-man's face at the beginning I knew that this game 
 would be amazing, and it is. There have been books written about this game, there is so much to 
 this game that is expanded even outside the game that makes you look back after you finished it 
 and say, "Wow, that was amazing." It is full of mystery and depth that no other game has been near 
 before! It's almost philisofical and special because..... I don't know! I can't even explain it! 
 This game, you have to play it to believe it! I can't really find any words for this game because 
 it is so good and there is so much to it that I couldn't sum up in even 20 reviews. This game is 
 indeed in the top 10 best ever. Even though it was made back in 2004 the graphics, the quality, 
 and the sound is so perfect. Some times you might be in the heat of battle fighting giant robotic 
 tripods, and other times you might be creeping along inside a massive tower that is the headquarters 
 for the alien Combine, and other times you will be fighting your way throught hundreds of flesh 
 eating zombies in a town that is infested in them. Sometimes its fun, sometimes its scary, but 
 all the time its a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renorlibrado
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the greatest game ever. No doubt about it. Others who are hating this game are.. 
 i dunno, "freaks of nature". Anyways, Half-Life games have always set a standard in video games. 
 HL2 however was fine tuned by research and surveys to see what parts of the game would be compelling 
 to the players. It works. Have game fatigue? Why dont you try the numerous puzzles within the game.. simple 
 yet frustrating at the same time. Wanna drive a car? There are chapters dedicated to Vehicles! 
 Hate ants? Want your inner Orkin man to let loose? HL2 has many antlions for you to kill. Remember 
 those pesky lice on your head, there is a version of that in HL world. If you cant kill those crabs... 
 kill the head crabs! They turn people into zombies by pluging their bunghole onto thier victim's 
 head. Oh yah, are you a Newtonian? Sorry but the physics in HL2 are over the top. It is realistic 
 to the extent of almost all the objects in the world are touchable and has a certain weight, masked 
 with the perfect sound, you think its... real! Although the far out thing about the physics is the 
 fragdolls. It sucks when you throw a grenade at an enemy, they wont have body parts flying away.. sigh... but 
 it is terribly fun to see them fly away with a 12 gauge in their head. HL2 gives you a sense that 
 you are not alone, like everything around you happening indepently with the story. Characters are 
 brought to life with the amazing voice overs. There are so many questions to be answered in this 
 game... but we all love action... this game should go on forever there is always something new Valve 
 is doing to make games hella realistic which is cool! To anyonw who never played this game... buy 
 it, it cheap. The Minimum requirements arent that bad but it still runs smooth if you are in the 
 range of it. So yah... one more thing.... the gravity gun rocks!~Peace out-Reno 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  This game is packed with beautiful graphics that improve majorly on the first rather disapointing 
 Half Life. It gives fast paced shoot outs that may a little bit get dull when it is happening in 
 a flat area. The whole environment around you can be bent to solve frustrating puzzles and get 
 past certain blocked areas which is three quatres of what the gravity gun is for. The game's weapons 
 are few yet worth using and you will probably always fall back onto the pistol as your last resort 
 to stay alive, the magnum is small yet unexpectingly is much more powerful than most weapons at 
 close and long range.
  
  Character design is like nothing I have ever seen as it blends in so well with the awsome graphics 
 engine. Acting is better than most other first person shooter games and not to mention that the 
 mouth movement of the characters goes in well with the voice. Time playing to finish the game is 
 extremely long and I would not reccomend trying to finish it all in one day which would give most 
 players very tired eyes.
  
  The first level with Gordon Freeman making it to the lab is exciting yet made without any weapons 
 and will only appear cool to the more experienced players and players that have patience. The storyline 
 at the end of the game is confusing but is explained in the expansion called Half Life 2 episode 
 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_frek1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, at first when I bought this game, I was running it on a 2001 Dell... It was pretty crappy 
 and the load times were killer, but now I bought a new custom computer and I decided to play it 
 again. What a drastic difference... So at first my review was a stupid chunk of crap. I decided 
 to re-do all of my reviews to make more sense... Lol.
  
  Gameplay: Amazing. The Source engine is just amazing. Everything has like a weight so the puzzles 
 in this game are a lot harder. For instance you have to use buoyancy to put these barrels of air 
 (which float in water) under a sunken platform so it'd rise and would let you go through. Also, 
 there's ragdoll phsyics. It's really funny to see someone die in mid-air, or on a slope and watch 
 their body slide down... Oh wait the game. It's just a shooter, but it's so pretty to shoot at 
 the pretty enemies. Everything looks great, and well the game isn't that hard at all, it's mostly 
 fun.
  
  Graphics: At first when it came out, it was spectacular. It still is today. With the awesome engine 
 and the new HDR, it just looks prettier and prettier. Guess what? The people look like actuall 
 humans! The V/O is great too.
  
  Sound: The voice overs are awesome. The combine sound cool. the enemies (especially zombies) sound 
 GREAT. It's actually kinda scary when you hear that moan + scream and see em comin' at ya! Other 
 then those, the cool music tracks start playing at the right times and when it's time for silence, 
 there's no music, just cold step noises and the shootin' of bullets.
  
  Value: Back when I bought it for $55, it was pretty expensive. Now you can get it at what? $20? 
 BUY IT NOW! Especially if it comes with Half-Life Source, or even CSS.
  
  It's amazing, and you need to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I didnt play Half life because I didnt have a computer at the time that would run it. So I pick 
 up GI one day and they are talking about how great this game (Half Life 2) was going to be and 
 damn they were right. Great graphics, amazing gameplay, and the sound is so so solid. Enemy A. I. 
 was pretty impressive and tricked me a few times into thinking either they were dead or gone. And 
 who cant say that they didnt just love the gravity gun? What a great idea. I cant tell you how 
 many times that thing got me out of a jam. Plus is was sweet picking things up and throwing them 
 at an enemy, only to watch them plumit to their death. A+++ game that I recommend for anyone who 
 has a PC to run it and loves FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_mario_128
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  well all I can say is wow!!!! this game is nearly perfect, it has a totally immersive storyline, 
 characters you can relate to, some of the best graphics last gen, great music which makes u feel 
 excited (not in a bad way) , and it absolutely owns any other game similar to it Doom 3, halo etc. 
 It is probably the best shooter I have ever played and i recommend it to all FPS fans. It keeps 
 to the storyline of the original and amazes in every way possible to be amazed. It has a great 
 mix of suspense, action and heart stopping moments, the graphics make use for fantastic views and 
 the enemies , the striders for instance are absolutely perfect and fighting them is one of the 
 classic gaming moments. So like I said before all I can say is wow!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justsomeguy112
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing in so many ways. The first time i played the first thing that cuaght my eye 
 was the detailed scenery that Gordan Freeman had to adventure in, im talking about buildings and 
 towns that dont look like a normal game but more like it was taken directly from a photo. This 
 makes the game have a feel to it that not many shooters can. The weapons in the game are very cool 
 and are pretty spread out so you don't get bored with the ones you have now. The gameplay is extremely 
 fun and the AI is pretty intellegent. The beggining of the game leaves many questions too be answered 
 but hosts a new enemy called the combine. Basically i could go on and on about the game and how 
 great it is but the main thing you must know is realistic this game is, everything is, the people 
 the way they move and act. the environments, the guns, the noises, everything. Play this game!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay: Great, wide enviorments, cool weapons & enemies!
  Graphics: With all maxed & a decent GC, matches GRAWX360!
  Sound: Great but too hard to care 
 when the gameplay & graphics ditract you, lol.
  Value: Fealt like it should have been a little cheaper since its been out for a while & episode 
 1, 2 & 3 are around the corner.
  
  Graphics dont determine a great shooter but bad ones can suck "coolness" out of playing, luckily 
 there's no worry in this game as the graphics are better than F. E. A. R. *IMO. This is alot like 
 Halo but with a little run & gun shooting & HELL of alot more thinking & doing this... 4+1=?, in 
 3D-physical action. The game just feels better on the PC than on the Xbox for some reason, so pick 
 it up for the right price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zapbomb
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Half life 2 is a fantastic game. Many people have played half life, including me, but have not 
 liked it but I tell those people to just try this game, they are going to love it!! Half life 2 
 is not like regular Shooters, but is a different experience. Besides the excellent graphics of 
 the game, the length of the game is extraordinary. It is about 100 to 150 hours long and has about 
 10 different types of guns and melee weapons including the gravity gun which is a new concept. 
 the gun has the ability to lift heavy things and toss them around (a lot of fun!!) . the game stars 
 Gordon Freeman, a newly assigned scientist in the Anomalous materials lab in the black mesa.
  
  Story Line
  The story is a continuation of half life so make sure you know the story.
  
 The game is about The Combine Empire which are an alien race which hybridize the dominant species 
 of the planet they want to take over The Combine bribe a member of the victim species to act as 
 the leader of the planet to encourage other members of the species to conform to Combine demands. 
 So they bribe the the Administrator of Black Mesa, Wallace Breen of lots of power and come to earth 
 to take it over to leech it of all its resources, Breen as their person through which they would 
 talk with the people of the earth. Freeman now has the job to set out and rescue the earth from 
 the combine. Gordon joins the resistance forces made by the people of city 17
  
  Characters
  The main characters we meet are:-
  1) Dr. Eli Vance
  2) Alex Vance - daughter of 
 Eli
  3) Dr Judith mossman - assistant of Dr Eli
  4) Barney - Gordons very good friend and security guard at the black mesa
  
  System requirements
 
  
  A) Minimum System Configuration
  
  1.2 GHz Processor
  256MB RAM
  DirectX 7 capable graphics card
  Windows 2000/XP/ME/98
  Mouse
  Keyboard
  Internet Connection
 
  
  B) Preferred System Configuration
  
  2.4 GHz Processor
  512MB RAM
  DirectX 9 capable graphics card 256mb
  Windows 2000/XP/ME/98
  Mouse
  Keyboard
  Internet 
 Connection
  
  The Game
  I just loved this game. It is a perfect package of FUN. You wont get up from your seat and just 
 want to keep playing and playing and playing.........
  The game includes zombies, leapers, headcrabs, antlions and also the combine troops to kill with 
 your really cool and advanced guns. It includes a total of thirteen excitement filled levels of 
 non stop action. some levels include riding motor boats, shooting jets with laser guided rocket 
 launchers, riding buggies through hot monster infested deserts, shooting huge, fully-loaded three 
 legged stalkers and you can also form a group of up to 4 people as your squad to help you in combat. 
 some levels are to deal with scary monsters while are just plain shooting fun!! so If U are planning 
 to buy a game just buy half life 2. it is a revolution in all shooting games and dont worry the 
 graphics are excellent!
  
  The only surprising thing was that even if i dont have a graphic card of any kind it still works 
 perfectly.
  
  Conclusion
  well.... i dont have much to say but this game has already received 35 game of the year awards 
 and sold over 4 million copies. if u love this game there is more to it. A half life 2 expantion 
 pack has released on june 1st which is a story continuation on half life 2 so make sure you enjoy 
 the game half life 2.
  This game has 3 difficulty levels and can be change any time between the game.
  I dont have much 
 more to say but i think you should go for this game and make sure you have fun....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kopedawg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, I waited. I wasn't sure that my pc would run HL2 in all it's glory without crappy framerates, 
 or outright crashes. But I finally bought it last week. And boy was I amazed. The game ran fine 
 with most settings either at medium, or high. And it is gorgeous. 
  
  The gameplay was what I expected. Enemy AI was great, as was level design. Voice acting was great 
 also, with many well-known stars lending their voices.
  
  The narrative was a bit hard to follow, however. I'm still not sure what happened between the end 
 of HL and the beginning of this one. That may be because I never actually finished the first one 
 (I hate jumping puzzles more than anything else in a game. Plus, I do believe I had run out of 
 ammo on the last level, and there were no more pickups, so I gave up on it.) However, since I picked 
 up the GOTY edition of HL2, and it has HL: Source as part of the package, I'm revisiting it now. 
 But for those people (if there are any out there) who never played HL, a little more explanation 
 of what had happened in the first game would have been welcome. 
  
  The driving sequences were a rather interesting addition. I enjoyed taking the airboat and the 
 dune buggy out for a spin. Thank heavens for the gravity gun, or my many crashes in the dune buggy 
 could have made for a bad gameplay experience!
  
  All in all, I enjoyed the game, and look forward to picking up the Episodic content, beginning 
 this weekend. I give it a 9.1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengi_ikazuchi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I respect Hadilem's review of a 2.0 for HL2, but he failed to see what this game has to offer. 
 Either he reviewed on a bad day, or he needs to re-evaluate how to review a title. HL2 is easily 
 a 9+ 
  
  It's one of those games where you have to play before believing what anybody says about it. Yea 
 sure, it's got a few downs here and there. No game is perfect. The gameplay is a bit linear, some 
 tedious parts in the game, and some annoying loading times. But the ups over rule. Great ambience, 
 fun interactivity, heart-pounding action, smart ai, solid story, and superb graphics obviously 
 won the hearts of many, not just me. 
  Ravenholm, to me, was one of the best part of the game. Never before have I been scared to play 
 a level in a FPS since DOOM I.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jangojedi4
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is a masterpiece. Plain and simple. 
  
  Gameplay: Well balanced and easy to get used to. No weapon is TOO powerful throughout the majority 
 of the game. Weapons are innovative, especially the gravity gun. 
  
  Graphics: Exactly they way I wanted them, which was suitable for most systems. I never had any 
 interference-type problems, and the environment was very interactive.
  
  Sound: I love all the sound effects: Combine soldiers dieing, Striders getting slammed by rockets, 
 Gunships crashing into the ground, antlions chattering, and poison headcrabs screeching. The music 
 is also perfect too.
  
  Value: An awesome buy. I bought the Game of the Year Edition, and it comes with: Half Life 2, Half 
 Life 2 Deathmatch, Counter Strike Source, and Half Life 1 Source. You clearly get your money's 
 worth.
  
  The only thing I didn't like about Half Life 2 was the 9mm pistol. It's shaped funky and sounds 
 wierd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_HellKnight
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  To put it quick and simple Half-Life 2 has to be the greatest game ever created.
  
  The Source Engine is simply amazing, it's hugely optimized so even if you dont have a top of the 
 line PC, you should still be able to run this amazing game atleast at low settings and even then 
 this game will look amazing.
  
  The Facial Expressions on the Characters is very realistic, you will be able to tell when a character 
 is happy, sad and angry just by looking at their face. The Voiceacting is also Brilliant, combined 
 with the realistic animations and facial expressions its creates a scene as if you were actually 
 standing there with real people. :)
  
  Half-Life 2 has some great weapons, Including the "Zero Point Energy Field Manipulator" AKA. The 
 Gravity Gun and the "Bugbait" used for controlling Antlions. My Personal favourite gun is the Overwatch 
 Standard Issue Pulse Rifle, a powerful machinegun with a devastating Alt. Fire (An orb which bounces 
 from wall to wall vaporising every living thing it touches) .
  The Weapons look and sound excellent as does everything else in the game, if its a Zombie moaning 
 in the dark or a combine soldier screaming in pain, everything sounds... real.
  There is even more of a reason to stay with the game once you completed it because the game comes 
 boundled with Counter Strike Source & Half-Life 2 Deathmatch which is really enjoyabe as you can 
 launch toilets at each other with the gravity gun. :D
  
  Anyone, you can use Valves amazing level creating program called Hammer, an extremely easy to use 
 program to create your own great levels and mods.
  In short: Get this game, You wont be disappointed!
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  If You want Half-Life 2 looking EVEN BETTER graphics wise i highly recommend FakeFactory's & Ogg's 
 High Resolution Pack.
  - - -
  http://halflife2. filefront. com/file/FakeFactorys_Oggs_High_Resolution_Pack;55302
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencdiamonds
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing shooter I have played all real Half-life games and 
  
  this one is amazing. I strongly advise you have a good computer for the 
  
  best experince 
 available Gamespot has its own can you run it site.
  
  The story line is strong with a building climax the graphics are the very 
  
  good. The gameplay 
 is very complex it comes from walking to driving an 
  
  airboat with many puzzles that must be overcome to move on. there are 
  
  many different weapons 
 and enemies that are each have their main tatics
  
  to try and stop your progress.
  
  The A. I. is very inteligent depend from little headcrab aliens from Evil 
  
  combine foot soldiers.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  After a long long long wait HL2 appeared. I rushed to a local shop in Lebanon and I received my 
 copy of this extremely hyped shooter. Half life one was exceptional but will this game exceed my 
 expectations? Like the first one did? Will it set new standards? Will it be the king of all shooters 
 like the 1st title was proclaimed? I sadly do not think so. The main problem of half-life 2 is 
 actually the release of Far cry. 
  
  Honestly speaking Far cry beats HL2 on every premise, leaving it with nothing. Dont get me wrong 
 HL2 is a great shooter but let us start asking ourselves what did this new title add to the genre? 
 Nothing at all 
  
  Do u remember your first encounter with the marines in half life one. The A. I was exceptional it 
 was the best back then. A real challenge that is hard to dismiss. Well the new A. I in half life 
 2 is easily beaten by the excellent A. I demonstrated in Far cry. (Much more challenging opponents) 
 And lets be honest the battles and the gunfights are the most important factor is modern shooters. 
 I think that the A. I in HL1 beats the A. I in HL2! 
  
  The environment is also beaten by Far cry, which offers more diversity more options more vehicles 
 more every thing. Half life 2 remained linear while far cry offered much more dynamic choices. 
 The control system remained the same in HL2 as the original and this is clearly not acceptable 
 by todays standards!! 
  
  The weapons in half life 2 are also boring when compared to new titles. What was valve thinking 
 man! Half life 2 is not better than half life 1 at all! It is just another version with cooler 
 graphics and similar weapons. The environment in HL2 was not that exciting.
  
  Exploding barrels, huh thats an old Doom trick which can be accepted from Doom titles only, unless 
 a major change have been introduced like the excellent barrels from Far Cry. 
  
  Here I was driving my vehicle then suddenly an enemy opponent appeared after descending from a 
 rope above. He stood there. I decided to run him over. Sure he will run. no maybe he will jump. 
 no he is still standing, come on I am playing at normal difficulty here, this is sad very sad. 
 Maybe he was daring me and he thought that I would not run him over! Well he guessed wrong. After 
 driving for some time I was forced to make a long distance jump with my vehicle, my vehicle took 
 a wrong step, all the laws of physics indicated that the vehicle will land on its back in that 
 tunnel but suddenly it landed right !! What the hell is going on man!! A big monster was chasing 
 me, (u know it that one with the extremely long legs.) I entered in a sort of tunnel with bricks 
 above my head the monster did not seem to notice the bricks he simply continued following me by 
 now I can only see his legs but his head is above the bricks, now I get it! These enemies are transparent 
 they can pass threw walls and bricks. Very sad indeed! I am really shocked that this game received 
 high reviews all over! It is not that good. 
  
  Half life one is actually much better. I missed the way the blue police guy used to join and help 
 me against the monsters. This time around Bareny did not. I actually had to save him. Apparently 
 valve noticed the importance of having a friend near u and episode one had that beautiful girl 
 with the player all the game.
  
  The puzzles are not that difficult, just place the correct object in the correct place and youre 
 done. Not very impressive is it? 
  
  The game is not bad but I really could not see any improvements since HL1, which I still prefer. 
 
  
  I mentioned the bad the good is known and obvious.
  A good game but not the new champion the battle continues for the FPS crown.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer531
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Half-life 2 comes with a large set of mods that are all magnificent games worth playing 
 over and over again. This is a must-own if you are a PC gamer and this is to be added to the list 
 of games required for someone to beat to be a true first person shooter. 10
  
  Graphics: The best when it was released and the first true showing of HDR rendering. 10
  
  
 Sound: With its outstanding graphics and gameplay this game is greatly followed up with its intense 
 action music and long list of alien-like sound. 10
  
  Value: A true showing of how far first person shooters have come and something everyone should 
 own. 10
  
  Personal: I love it... one of the greatest games period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xfire229
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 let's you play as Gorden Freeman a scientist at Black Mesa which was destoryed in the 
 last game when an experiment went wrong and all sorts of creatures were let lose from other dimesions.
 
  
  Half-Life 2 gameplay is fantastic, it has a large array of weapons ranging from Pistols the Rocket 
 Launcher, but the most interesting gun they use is the Gravity Gun, which pulls objects toward 
 you and then you can fire them at enemys, although this sounds difficult to do, it's the simplest 
 gun ever, it's point and click. The Gravity Gun is used all through the game (except the start 
 were you don't have it) it is used for solving puzzles, as a deadly weapon, retreiving objects, 
 and more. Without it Half-Life 2 would not be the same.
  
  The Half-Life 2 graphic engine or 'Source' engine makes all the characters and scenery come to 
 life. Each character has the same amount of muscles in there face as you or I have, which makes 
 the emotions look extremely real. The new Physics engine adds the icing on the cake, objects from 
 rocks to trucks obey laws of gravity, friction and buoyancy, without the Physics engine the Gravity 
 Gun would not work. The excellent thing about Half-Life 2's graphics is that you don't need an 
 amazing PC to play it, I used to play it with a Geforce 4 with my 5 year old PC, and it worked 
 at Low/Medium settings and still looked great. Now i play it with a Geforce 6600 and it works fine, 
 but i can't have AA &amp; AF on.
  
  Valve hired a group of people to do the voices of all the characters in the game, and it's sounds 
 amazing, it's like that person is talking to you rather and just talking and facing you. They guns 
 make good noises and when grenades explode next to you hear a high pitch hum has your hearing is 
 attack. The sounds can be adjusted to up to 7.1 surround sound as well so the experience is even 
 more enjoyable.
  
  The Game itself took me around 35 Hours to complete, and i was playing it too death, for a hardcore 
 gamer it would take around 30 hours and for a laid back player around 40-60 Hours. But I go and 
 play back my favourite levels all over again, and now i have played it over 100 Hours.
  
  All in all this game is a must have, if you have a capable PC, even if you don't like First person 
 Shooters you simply must give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballerking
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  What can i say... hmmm well half life 2 and part 1 should be in everyone collection as if you are 
 a true gamer.
  
  Second graphics imo is one of the best out there in the top 5 pc games and having the best physics 
 of any game out there and still is.
  
  Game is easy to learn the controls quickly and game is a avg of 20+ hours long which in todays 
 standards a very long game for a fps game.
  
  Story takes place i think 3 or 4 years but doesn't really explain what freeman was doing at the 
 time but anyways don't wanna spoil the whole game so just pick it up and have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok, yall know the story , the quite but LETHAL man of steel is back to take KICK a** and take Names
 
  
  To start out THE visuals are GREAT almost a perfect 10. and the game play is INNOVATive. This game 
 never ever gets boring or loses its razor sharp edge though the whole game. There are always new 
 challenges and new weapons to be collected which is one of the games best features. The game always 
 keeps you guessing and wanting MORE MORE MORE. At times you will find that you had so much fun 
 defeating a hovering scorpion like flying machine that u will go back to a previous save OVER and 
 OVER just to play it again, YES ITS THAT GOOD. Right up to the end, the game keeps your attention 
 and will have you up all night playing. The ending is well..... unexpected... and leaves you with 
 the taste of 100 percent pure cocaine in your mouth, making you want to take the next plane down 
 to Valve studios and making them make another level at gun point ; P
  
  but to conclude this game is one of the best I have seen in a long time, always feels new, and 
 has plenty of replay value. put that together with the TONS ANd i mean TONS of mods and MASSIVE 
 half life 2 community there are always new great games to be downloaded such as counter-strike 
 source, team fortress source, red orchestra source, and a CRAP load of others that i couldn't possible 
 name. 
  
  Most of these can be gained through the Steam program that comes along with the game, and after 
 you register you can throw the disk out the window if you want (though i suggest u dont) because 
 you will have the ability to download the game , free of charge FOREVER. so dont worry about keeping 
 the original game safe during a move or when getting a new computer, all you got to do is download 
 steam and ur SET.
  
  Run, walk, drive, or hold up the nearest store that holds half-life 2 DO WHAT U MUST, just get 
 your hands on this game and play it ASAP !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaman37
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I remember when i first played half-life. The first time i played that game, all i could say was 
 WOW, and this is exactily what i did for the second. The awesome physics, great story, awesome 
 cast of chararcters! What More Could You Ask For! The single player is pretty long so should you 
 keep you busy for awhile, but if your asking what to do after the campaign, then of course theres 
 the multiplayer. It originally only came with CS: S, but now you can get deatmatch too. But out 
 of those 2 i would reccoment CS: S, because its just awesome. But anyway, this game is is just awesome 
 and it is a must for PC users. also, make sure to watch out for GMAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneMan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the sequel to the groundbreaking, innovative, and incredible game Half-Life. It's 
 been SIX years in the making, but was it worth the wait. Uhhh DUHH!!!
  
  -Gameplay
  This game is the emphasis on true FPS action. In the game, you are Gordon Freeman. You escaped 
 Black Mesa in the first game and then a figure only known as the Gman puts you in a frozen cryogenic 
 sate until he needs you again. It seems your time has come again as you are suddenly awaken without 
 any warning and find yourself on a train heading into the port. You step off only to see strange 
 supperiors literaly pushing citizens around and a giant projector to which a mysterious man is 
 convencing his people to not fear change and the challenges it brings. You are in City 17. From 
 there the game takes you to a number of locations to the sewers of this city, to a zombie infested 
 town. There are plenty of enemies to lay waste to such as the classic headcrab zombie and the headcrab 
 itself (watch out for other versions aswell) to the new supieror only known as the combine. Half-Life 
 2 takes great care in supporting the first game's story to set up a new story here. It doesn't 
 mean that the story is going to be spoon fed to you. You will need to interact with characters 
 and eviorments to sort out all that has happened while you have been away (its chocked full of 
 information, so don't mind Halo noobs who say there is no story) . There are such things as listening 
 in on chracters conversations, to reading stranded newspaper clippings. The characters from the 
 first game are back such as Dr. Kliner to the infamous Barney Calhoun. The amazing thing here is 
 that even though these characters meet with certain set backs in the first game (for one there 
 many of the same characters) , Valve has brought these chracters to life and given them all great 
 personalities. There are some new chracters here also, to the insane monk/priest Father Gregori 
 who helps you through the town of Ravenholm, to the Daughter of Eli Vance. Who is Alyx Vance and 
 a great addition to a great cast of chracters aswell as enemies. The weapons are all cool and useful, 
 but the real attraction here is the Gravity Gun, which lets you mess around with the physics. You 
 actually never get tired of the gameplay as one minute you are shoting the combine, the next throwing 
 razor blades at zombie, then you are trying to solve a cool little puzzle, then the next you are 
 driving on a horny antlion covered beach to which they will do anything to attack you. The A. I. 
 is good here and does not get enough credit. It is certainly much better than Halos. The reason 
 the game may be easy is because you are so freaking powerful that nothing can stand in your way. 
 One shot from the shotgun from a 7 foot distance is enough to take down an enemie. Also the enviorments 
 are also so large and so varied that I can see the A. I. struggling to think what to do next. Where 
 in games such as FEAR, the A. I. has a small arena and doesn't have to calculate all the places 
 it can go. Though the enemies do use squad tactics. This game pretty much has the best gameplay 
 I have seen around
  
  -Graphics
  Even with all these new titles coming out. This game still manages to stay up with the big boys 
 such as Unreal Turnament 2007 and Crysis. Though this game goes for a much more photorealistic 
 look to it, and I will tell you, it works expecially with HDR. Just go look at the lost coast screenshots.
 
  
  -Sound
  Top quality voice acting keeps the characters alive where most games just die out. The enimies 
 sound scary and incredible at the same time. From the screaching to a headcrab, to the dieing sound 
 of a strider. This game has varrying and incredible sound effects. The music, when there is some, 
 is awesome giving you a heart racing, subtle, and sometimes haunting techno soundtrack. The weapons 
 sound crisp and clear, if only they could have been a little louder. The sound is a real highpoint 
 in this game.
  
  -Replay
  The game is so fun that you actually want to go back and go through the scripted sequences again 
 just to feel the magic once again. The action is so intense that after completing one of the segments, 
 I actually quit and started where I last saved just to enjoy that firefight again. There is also 
 HL2: Deathmatch which is lots of fun and you have CS: Source. 
  
  Overall this game has to be played, so stop reading this get your cheeto staind, leatard wearing, 
 fat ass of the computer. Go get the game then set all of the various attributes I just said down 
 in your comfy chair and get to playing the damn game. Also loose weight if you fit my discription. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naked_Shooter
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  The review deck pretty much says it all. Amazing game, with a unique mysterious storyline which 
 can be analyzed by the player for immersion, or the player can just enjoy the game's sweet and 
 at-times horrifying gameplay. The graphics can be mind-blowing (although in some places they arn'tt 
 all that hot) . But that's because the game was made to run on the most abysmall of riggs. The requirements 
 are laughable, as the game can run with GPUs back from the DX7 ages. Ofcourse, now, most people 
 with old-standard rigs can run it anyway, but the low-made requirements were thoughtful, and make 
 it easy to enjoy the game to its maximum. The half life legacy of ownage lives on :P. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedako
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Arguably one of the most immersive and atmospheric FPS titles to date, Half-Life 2 sets a new standard 
 of gaming. From it's highly detailed character models to the remarkable use of physics, everything 
 about Half-Life 2 will captivate you from beginning to end. The transition between up-beat action, 
 largely physics based obstacles, and in game story scenes will never leave you just sitting back 
 and observing. Difficulty ramps up at just the right rate throughout Half-Life 2 and it never seems 
 either too easy or difficult, but it will always offer a challenge that most can appreciate. You 
 are always a part whats happening, and would be hard pressed to find a dull moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMaoTao
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  One thing about Half Life is that it is far infront of every other fps game. It plays
  in it's own category. This is the true AAA quality game. Read my other reviews for the other games 
 wannabes.
  It's the best fps of the last years and a masterpiece that will stand in time.
  
  I am an expert in humiliating moran fps games but this time i'm out of
  negative ideas. That 
 means that they've done descent job. This game worths it's money.
  
  Graphics
  In my opinion the lightmap, huge outdoor leves with excellent realistic textures and water effects 
 are much better than those in doom 3 or fear (i don't want to mention again this crappy game ) . Great 
 variety, realism... it has lots of jaw dropping environments. Your eyes will beg for more.
  
  Physics
  It's like the relativity theory of einstein, it opened a new dimension for the games 
 to come. That means innovation. Physics here is not just cool effect but an important gameplay fact. The 
 gravity gun is the top fps weapon of the century.
  
  Gameplay
  Great, great, great... Simply that. You will enjoy the vehicle sections and all
  the physics riddles.
 
  
  Multiplayer
  The number one multiplayer game-Counter Strike Source!!!
  
  Finally
  Don't read anything further, don't need it. Go buy it now.
  Ignore every other fps that came out 
 after the 2001 Undying and the fps that will come out the next years until they've release a new 
 Half Life game. Believe you're saving your money, your time and you won't missing too much by not 
 playing other fps.
  
  One question i have myself is how someone says that moran games like 
  fear, q4, cod2 are ok or 
 great ( hahahaha, good one ) when you have games like Half Life 2.
  
  I just hope for the centuries to come that Half Life 2 will characterize the
  game time we've 
 living now and not the other crappy piece of garbage that
  must be burned in fires.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg13
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- Top Notch - I consider them in many ways to meet newer games such as FEAR. Lost Coast 
 demo beats most brand new games. 
  
  Gameplay- Physics, Physics, Physic. The realistic and interactive environments create some really 
 great gaming moments that will leave you with your jaw on the floor for five minutes. Foremost 
 among these are the boat ride and the final level.
  
  Story- Unfortunately, it is a bit weak, but hey get a freakin' imagination and beef it up. More 
 details on the invasion, the plans of the Combine and the state of humanity could have been added.
 
  
  Difficulty- Easy most of the time hard at times. Solution to puzzles are often surprising. 
  
 
  Overall- This game is a must-play for anyone, especially FPS'ers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonLeebz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the Half Life 2 Collectors Edition with CSS and other source games, and for the next 
 week, my life revovled around the game. I found that not only did the game have intense graphics, 
 but it also contained gameplay I had never witnessed before. Instead of the usual blow right through 
 the game rambo style, you actually had to think about what you were doing to solve the puzzles 
 or get around enemies. The extensive arsenal of weapons and interesting automobiles provided lots 
 of fun and experimentation on how to irradicate enemies. If you are looking for gameplay which 
 many games lack, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Terrific graphics, and game play features. Almost speechless. Only issue I could come up with would 
 be that it didn't last long enough. The game can be finished a little under a day. When your child 
 can complete the game within 7 hours (within 2 day time span) . The story could have kept going.
 
  
  But then there wouldn't be enough room left to create another sequel, I guess.
  
  Great game, great physics, great graphics, and sound. Loved every minute of game play. This is 
 how a game should be developed. Well worht the wait. Valve, take as much time as needed to complete 
 testing and development. If this is the quality released, keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Lord_Saddler_
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  HL, to me when it was first released seemed like some generic FPS shooter. The graphics were good 
 for the time, and the storyline fit, but when it was finished, all I had left to say was, "Huh. 
 That was odd." The game didn't work, the all too cheery scientists who greet you happily while 
 falling to their deaths in an elevator; the extremely aggravating jumping puzzles and the repeated 
 enemies for room after room. The action was there, the game was there, but you didn't feel immersed, 
 and at the end of it all, I felt as if I just defeated Mario Party. When HL2 came out, my first 
 impression was, another generic FPS. I had a Gamecube, and a piece of crap computer, so I didn't 
 buy it. I then played RE4 and it set my standards VERY high. After constant bugging by my friends, 
 I bought HL2.
  
  Amazing game overall. Graphics, sound, enemies, AI, and one thing editors at Gamespot may not agree 
 with; storyline. The reason I like the storyline is that it's subtle, and not glared into your 
 mind giving you the feeling of being in a video game. Imagine if you were arrive in City 17 yourself. 
 It would seem a little surreal if people started telling you that the Combine had invaded Earth 
 and taken humans as slaves in such in such order. The storyline is one thing that made me want 
 to run through the game too look for, Dr. Kleiners newspaper clippings, Dr. Breen's casts, dialogue, 
 etc. all make the story come alive. It may be a bit fuzzy at first, but think about it a bit, it 
 fits together if you have the right information.
  
  Finally, the gameplay. Graphics, Sound and everything else basically comprise the game. Needless 
 to say, this is the first game where there is a hard to understand story, that gets by on Graphics 
 and gunfights perfectly. although, given it almost always a Headcrab, Zombie, Combine, Manhack 
 or Antlion (well, up until one part.) as enemies, it never gets boring as you never can expect 
 when and where the next enemy will be, and what they'll be doing. Overall, I would recommend HL2 
 to anyone, given you've got a REALLY good computer, less you suffer from bad graphics and the infamous 
 "stuttering" bug. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructort1st
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game will simply blow you away it raises the bar of fps i think the big reason for that is 
 because it has the best phisics in any game ever witch adds so much for the realism theres even 
 a gun that actually uses the phisyics yo can throw almost anything at people or zombiees or anything 
 else the graphics look great and its sounds beautiful but its almost too perfect everting looks 
 too clean or not rusted or rotted. other than that the games almost flawless. but again as in most 
 of my reviews i some everthing up to fast and i need more words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unholy_Raven
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I think it's time I reviewed this game. I've had it for a few months now and I'm still playing 
 even though I've beat it multiple times on every skill level, with and without cheats. 
  
  Graphics - Very good. For the exception of a few spots the graphics in this game very nice. However, 
 it does tend to load the GFX card quite a bit. Make me glad I overclocked mine to get the maximum 
 visual pleasure I could with a 7800GT. 
  
  Character Model - The characters done extremely well. I like that they used multiple models instead 
 of just one or two. That made the game a bit more realistic instead of making you feel like your 
 expieriencing de ja vu.
  
  Performance - This took a bit of a hit due to the constant stuttering that occurs through out the 
 game. Although there is a patch for this problem, I noticed that it still happens, but not as much 
 if you didn't have the patch. I would like to think they are going to fix this problem, but given 
 the Episode 1 has the same problem, I just don't know. That's not to say that the game is impossible 
 to play. It's just that it can get annoying and in some cases cause death when it does happen.
 
  
  Game Play - Fun, entertaining, and in some cases difficult. That's right, stuttering aside, this 
 game has quite a high replay rating. I have Episode 1 now, but I still find myself going back to 
 this game on occasions if only to see the differences between the 2.
  
  Overall - If you don't mind the stuttering and you have pretty good computer to play it on then 
 it's a game worth purchasing. Just remember to find the stutter patch before you play it so that 
 it won't be as much of a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbubba92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  wow this is like the best game i have ever played! THis is such an amazing game i cannot believe 
 it! ok, now, u start off as gordon (duh) and your stuck in a technelogically advanced city with 
 a bunch aliens called the Combine that took it over, the city is called City 17. what u have to 
 do is basically stop Dr. Breen, the leader of city 17. and u go thru many levels of amazing graphics, gameplay, 
 adventure , action and puzzles. just a well equipped FPS. the package also comes with some really 
 fun stuf like Counter Strike Source which is a very fun online multiplayer. u also get lost coast, 
 a short, one chaptered, single player mode just to show off some of valve's new lighting or w/e 
 and half life source, which is basically half life orginal with some source in it. so bottomline 
 is: GET THIS GAME RIGHT NOW OR U WILL DIE !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 came out around the same time Halo 2 came out. I played Halo 2 for a while. I thought 
 it was very well made and had addictive multiplayer. Now that I've played Half Life 2 I remember 
 why I was a PC gamer for so many years. If you like good single player or multiplayer fps, you 
 will like Half Life 2. Graphics are awesome same with the gameplay. The game comes with Counter-Strike 
 Source which is basically Counter-Strike on the Source engine with improved graphics, sound, and 
 levels. Counter-Strike Source is also sold seperately but get Half Life 2 for your own good. I 
 think it's only like 40 bucks now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhay-mehr
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Induced by all the talk about this game, and because "more of the same" is about to hit the fan 
 anytime now, i decide to write something up about this game with a goal to create my clear standpoint 
 on it and possibly get a self-use self-training in video game grading.
  
  I just finished this game for the second time. The motivation for the second play trough was developer 
 comentary in EP1 which i finished just before starting the original HL2 again. I first played HL2 
 some weeks after the game went retail, and like many other FPS games, just moments after starting 
 the game i got an all-familiar Deja-Vu feeling which momentarily put me into "ok well just finish 
 it and make your money worth" mode. But after hearing the dev comentary in EP1, i must admit that 
 my "older" opinion on the game has changed somewhat. Good or bad, i hope to find out by the time 
 i finish pouring out this review.
  
  I'll start with the sound since it's the best part of the game. Firstly, the voice acting. To keep 
 it short i'm just gonna say 4/5. The choice of actors could have been better. There are a number 
 of great Hollywood actors these days that don't get the roles they deserve (guess why) and are 
 more than happy to make some money on the side. They are professionals and the work they do sounds 
 equaly good.
  
  What really stands out in the sound department is the technical side of it. The enviroments get 
 another layer of art with the sound. Instead of using a Reverb effect which is primarily used to 
 create a spacial image of the sound, Valve uses a simple Delay effect. It's used brilliantly and 
 implemented flawlesly. The sound bounces of the walls like it should and the times of the sound 
 delay are just right. Equalization is spotless too. Weapon sounds are great. They "pack a punch" 
 like they should. Same goes for explosions. Overall, the (presumably) simple sound engine implemented 
 in the Source engine can go right up there with Creative's proprietary software solutions by the 
 merit of impression it leaves. Good job on that. The music is rare but comes up in the right places. 
 I'm an electronic music fan so the experimantal noise in HL2 almost fits my taste. Almost. And 
 it's a healthy change from the generic orchestral music delivered from names which are lifted to 
 heaven by the people that know very little or nothing at all about the roots and inspirations of 
 that kind of music.
  
  Next, i'll go with the gameplay. Now it is obvious that Valve really tried to make a difference, 
 but i must say, that the game just doesn't deliver. This HAS to do with the Source engine. I do 
 believe they went out their way to create an engine that will smooth out to perfection things that 
 are used in game design for years and years. But what they left out was innovation. We still have 
 our AI which is less and less scripted, Material Systems and Shaders with more and more and more 
 instruction slots, BSP trees more and more optimized... things like that. And all this technology 
 uses the current hardware just to deliver more of the same, while it should really innovate and 
 deliver at least just a bit of the "something new". And the possibilities are really endless. To 
 sum it up, i'll say that i give 10 to Valve for the effort, but an 8 to an end result which is, 
 IMHO, impaled by the limiting old fashioned game engine built for new architectures. There are 
 a few gameplay elements in the game which are primarily based on the physics engine, and not much 
 else there. So no point in getting into details. The puzzles are few and far inbetween. Placed 
 masterfully intersected with borring cutscenes just to leave an impression of diversity.
  
  Listening to the developer's commentary on how the gametsters got confused in situations with such 
 obvious solutions, and developers then having to "just cut that part out from the game" really 
 made me something inbetween sad and angry. The marketing just manages to ruin everything it touches. 
 The horror.
  
  And then, what is up with the graphics? It's 2006 and the textures in Half Life 2 on medium look 
 on par with Quake 3 on same settings, and Quake 3 (although an ID product) is an 8 year old game. 
 What's wrong here? Again, Source engine's material system. The textures in Source engine want just 
 too much graphics memory therefore limiting the possibilities of texturing. This is the first thing 
 i'd overhaul in the Source engine. The polycount is awfull too. I guess they went for the lower 
 detail in order for more people to be able to play the game, but i'd expect much more scalability 
 from an engine so much talked about. Must be that old Quake1 code left over in the Source.
  
  There's much more to say but i think i pointed out the most important parts. To sum it all 
 up i'm gonna give Valve the credits for the really good effort, but still say that the game just 
 doesn't deliver. The enf result is limited by the technology which powers it which was developed 
 with the wrong masterplan. And let's not forget the credits for the retarded playtesters which' 
 brains are an obvious victims to this todays culture mutated with marketing businesses.
  
  note to self: hmm so 7.6. I think i'm gonna re-grade all the games i graded so far on GS. Thanks 
 for the push Jeff. I preume you were in a bit of a bad mood when you dropped 7.2 on Prey, but man 
 you dropped it right there where it belongs. More of that kind of grading could really make a difference.
 
  
  (P. S. English is not my language and no i'm not gonna spell check, and no i'm not sorry) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baller1257
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was a great gaming experience that blending a good story that contained "real" characters 
 that not only had their own look and feel but personality. The I would have to say that the only 
 major issue I had was the fact that it demanded well equipped computer because of the gorgeous 
 graphics and well my Geforce 2 gc just wasn't going to cut it. The fact that I did not have much 
 money to work with did not leave me with any other option but to go to a near by lan house to savor 
 the goodness that is Half Life 2. 
  
  Btw All the hours of the gameplay steaming from its mods and future ones makes its replay ability 
 just plain ridiculous (Side not: That Portal expansion, mod, or whatever it is looks pretty awesome!!!!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgtahalo22
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Let's begin, the half-life 2 forum knows me as chrisgtahalo22, 23, or 24. Which ever one you ran 
 into, it's the same guy. Here's why, I created a thread on there a few days ago titled "is HL2 
 really that good". The tread was deleted, but it gathered more than 160 posts on it before it was 
 deleted.
  
  Here's why I started that thread, and here's my review of Half-Life 2. I'll go by category because 
 that is easier to understand.
  
  Graphics-some of the best i've ever seen, the textures, the water effects, the physics, all this 
 technical stuff is delivered in the highest quality. 
  
  AI-some of the stupidest bunch of idiot enemies i've ever fought against. They stand right in the 
 open shooting at you, they don't jump out of the way of moving vehicles, they don't crouch. If 
 they are holding a pistol and you have a rocket launcher they don't run away. they are incredibly 
 easy to fight and it is not a challenge whatsoever.
  
  Vehicles-Awful control over these pour excuses for video game vehicles, the first person view especially 
 makes these parts of the game tedious and not very enjoyable at all. The portions spent in the 
 vehicles are way too long and have you wishing they would end.
  
  Run and gun action-don't go into this game expecting to strategically fight your battles, whoever 
 wins the firefights depends on who has the biggest gun, no tactics, no tactical thinking. Intense 
 violence, try boring repetitive violence.
  
  Story-biggest disappointment of all, any of you wanting to know more about the man in the hazard 
 suit will have to dream about him. The main character says absolutely nothing throughout the entire 
 game. People who were dissapointed with GTA III's character, welcome back. Some of the important 
 people in the game will talk directly to you, many times for extended periods of time and yet his 
 says nothing. No personality, no emotion, no character, no Gordon Freeman. 
  
  Conclusion-i've seen people praise this game to no end, most likely because they like it the first 
 five minutes they play it or fell in love with the graphics, whatever, it isn't that good. The 
 supposedly intense action is a drone, AI dumber than the zombies you meet in the game, horrid vehicle 
 controls and levels. Valve took Half-life 1, shot it in the face, and smoothed over the holes with 
 shiny graphics. If you want intense action with a very good story, along with better graphics, 
 check in with FEAR. You won't be disappointed with that way better of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meatwad_Gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played Hal-Life 2, what are you waiting for? HL2 is one of the most engaging 
 and fun FPS on the market. Powered by the great Source engine, this game is a wonderful experience 
 from beggining to end.
  
  You take the role of scientist Gordon Freeman who leads a revolution to destroy an intergalactic 
 empire that has conquered Earth. The game is full of great battles and good puzzles set on a wonderful 
 atmoshpere. The game never gets repetitive and the good story will make you to keep going. The 
 game takes a while to beat and in the end it's a satisfactory experience.
  
  The game has great graphics and great sound and the game has so many value bacuase of all the mods 
 you can download. This game is a must own if you havce a good PC. You won't regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarbedBuffalo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  i really enjoyed this game. lots of action, i like that in games.
  
  However it was extreamly scripted.. just like the first one, and lots of those waiting around for 
 everyone to shut the hell up moments. I had my moments in puzzles when i got stuck, but evenutally 
 finished it.
  So thats one thing i can check off my list of things to do before i die.
  Basically i quit the game when i beat it so i wouldn't run it dry right away.
  
  I love the 
 graphics, the gravity gun... Love that classic crowbar. I love the physics in the game. very realistic. 
 Same physics in Half Life 2 Deachmatch which i also might add was great! definately pick up a copy 
 of this game, and HalfLife 2 DeathMatch.
  
  I hope you enjoy playing it as much as I did :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Yup, I have t admit, this game is awsome. Adfter playing Half life my expectations were very high 
 for this game, and i was not let down, it in fact was way better then i had expected.
  
  Some people compare this game to halo and halo 2, well i say **** them, halo and halo 2 are abysmal, 
 overhyped and crapppy in general. 
  
  Some people also say that it doesnt work on their computers, well i say to them, get better hardware. 
 I play it just fine with 1 gig of ram and a radeon 9550.
  
  The price is just right, since it also comes with alot of other games. CS: S Half Life 2 DM, Half 
 Life: S.
  
  Now, to teh deep reveiw
  
  Story: 9.5/10
  The story is very very good. In fact, the thought that GMan caused this whole game to happen humors 
 me. Basically with out letting out spoilers i will tell you the plot. You 'wake up', if you can 
 call it that in a void with GMan staring you in the face, saying that you time has come again. 
 Then you get sent to the future. A future where Doctor Breen rules with an iron thumb by using 
 a force called the Combine. Your 'job' if you can call it that is to stop Breen by any means nessissary 
 as you befriend the resistnace members in fighting agains the Combine and 'Our Benefactors'.
  
  Overall it has a solid storyline.
  
  Gameplay: 8.2/10
  The game play ill have tor ate 
 slightly lower. This is because at some points your squad has a hard time following you, and theres 
 just some laggy or bad npc plaments. You have some of the same weapons from Half life. Like the 
 Crowbar that Barny throws to you after you leave Kliners Lab. the handgun and 9mm AR, now called 
 an smg. Crossbow, magnum 357, rpg, and the grnades get a remake. Some new wapons are the Overwatch 
 plasma gun, Pheropods, and gravity gun. the gravity gun is the funest weapon in any fps game ever, 
 it cal life objects and you can use them for defence or to kill enemies, or open new paths.
  
  Loading Screens:
  Alot of people complain about these, and i say to the complainers, shove 
 your complaining up your @$$ because it takes that long to load all of the textures, lightmaps, 
 npcs, ai nodes and all that other crap. But they are a tiny bit annoying sometimes.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  best graphics in a pc game ever. nough said
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Very good 
 choice in music, it goes with the game very well and adds to the overall atmosphere, especially 
 in Ravenholm.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  I'd say its fair to say that this game is worth the 29.99 I payed for it (bought it at Walmart) 
 as it comes with an array of other games.
  
  My Final thoughts:
  This game is very modable, though the Face poser leaves something to be desired, the new hammer 
 is awsome. The replay value of this game is very high, and the sroty line doesnt really get stale. 
 Overall this is one of the best games ever created. It runs circles around the Halos, beats up 
 Killzone and all the other war games. Why some people hate it is beyond me, maybe they were sexually 
 abused as a child or something and it ****ed their brains up, or Bill Gates and his xcrap brainwashed 
 them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Ok dont assume i have a pos puter cuz i dont its pretty dam n good. I have
  
  amd athlon 64 3500
  2.5 gigs of ram
  7800 bfg gt 256mb
  audigy sound card
  Asus a8n-sli 
 mobo
  
  so if u can see i have an amazing machine its just i can max on prey, doom3, bf2, any game but fear, and 
 hl2. the strange thing in fear is it runs but freezes alot. Half life 2 hits 120-140 fps but does 
 this strange lag spikes all the time where u run smooth then a small lag like that game is catching 
 up. Im hoping instead of spending money this is what everyone is getting cuz its not my hardware. or 
 u ppl r fim about OS cuz i think the copy of XP sp1 running 32 bit bring my down to 32bit cuz i 
 have a 64 bit cessor and just xp 64????
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdilh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  Halflife 2 is a game that brings a new idea in every series, or may I say game. The gameplay is 
 top-notch, barely perfect, but hey, what game is perfect, the gravity gun really adds alot, with 
 the addition of the satisfaction of murdering a foe in close to far quarters combat. The graphics 
 are simply amazing with great daylight lighting and grainy tectures. Top-quality sound with detailed 
 scenery music, and the screetching noice and echo of an enemy down the corridor, it is just that 
 detailed. The game is decently long at 15 to 20 hours if you are a first-timer. The multiplayer 
 is great as well due to the similar in-game gameplay. BUY THIS GAME on pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastirOfPuppets
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Great physics engine, and also an awesome new graphics engine called Source which also powers another 
 popular and sweet online FPS called Counter-Strike. Counter-Strike: Source comes free with it along 
 with Half-Life 2 Deathmatch, so you get 3 games for the price of one. And if that doesn't satisfy 
 you there's many mods to pick and choose from and if you're a Half-Life 1 fan then you should look 
 out for Black Mesa Source, which is Half-Life 1 remade but using the Source engine (meaning it 
 will have nice graphics that you see in 
  Half-Life 2) . 
  Let's talk about the story now. The Combine invade Earth and enslave all humans and use Dr. Breen, 
 the former Black Mesa Administrator, as their pawn to control them. That's all you need to know 
 to enjoy the game, but if you really want to understand it I recommend you play through the first 
 game prior this one. Also keep in mind you may need a powerful computer to run this game smoothly 
 along with nice graphics. The box recommends 512 RAM but I highly recommend 1 gig. When I was on 
 512 I had lots of loading pauses and long loading times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Current System Configs/ Hardware anaylsis
  
  2.2ghz
  640 mb of ram
  Ati Radeon 9250
  
  Proformance on these specs: Low - Game sound skips occasionally, followed by lag, game occasionally 
 freezes, 
  
  graphics Best set 800x600 on Medium-High settings with a system config like this
  
  
  
 
  What made the first game so memorable was it was most definatly somthing new, in the orinigal 
 Half-life, you played a hero in your own action movie. The game was more than mowing somthing down 
 moving from point A to point B. In the orinigal Half-life you had puzzles that were occasionally 
 challenging, and fun. The game was also backed up with superb audio and visuals.
  Half-life 2 brings the same gameplay to the table, but the only difference is... it does it much 
 better. With the realistic physics engine, the puzzles have the capablity to get far more interesting. 
 The guns are great, many return from the orinigal game, but they're some new guns that are great 
 additions to your aresenal. One of which is a first in any video game, known as the gravity gun. 
 
  Being one of the best guns in any video game, the gravity gun adds a new dimension to gameplay. 
 In some cases you will be presented with a choice, go in guns blazing, or maybe pick up an explosive 
 canaster, and hurl it at thy enemy. In addition to the standard Half-life 2 gameplay, you will 
 be presented with 2 vehicle sequences that are each very well done.
  The source engine looks great on high specs, but tweaked low, it will appear quite ugly. If you're 
 pushing the minimum system requirements, I'd reccomend upgrading the computer. Otherwise the source 
 engine is in many instances state-of-the-art. The water is unbelievably real, as well as some of 
 the scenery. Sound is also handled well, every sound effect is realisitc, and the voice overs are 
 handled with some of the best lip sync to date. The source engine, used by half-life 2, is one 
 of the best to date.
  All and all Hl2 is a great game, worth checking out. I would suggest picking this game up soon, 
 because it is one of the most engaging experiences to date 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miladasadi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of adventure games and love stories but I always wanted to get more involved into story 
 and be there! Half-life 2 is exactly what I was looking, you will get into positions you always 
 wanted to be in. now you just don't watch a movie but you are the main character. great suspence 
 and action with realistic characters and involving environment. graphic is great and game play 
 is superb. you never get tired in this long game and alway get something new. not much music but 
 sound is good. finally I recommend it to every one even those who don't like action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SumerianDaemon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  No way to describe my feelings about this game. Especially in english which is not my language. Just 
 PERFECT, EPIC, INNOVATIVE. This game is just like watching a movie. How has Valve managed to make me 
 feel like in Half Life 1 again? The atmosphere in every stage is fantastic. The story, the friends, the 
 enemies... This game is so great! Ihave finished it more than 5 times and i can still sit by a friend 
 and watch him playing it for hours. Another shock for me was the physics engine. I would kill an 
 enemy and then play with his body shooting his arms or legs, throwing grenades at him just to find 
 a single mistake.. FLAWLESS. the only thing witch could be a bit improved is weapons but this is 
 just a drop in the ocean. If theres no HL3 after the episodes i'll kill myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmonkeykid
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is really good. I don't know why GS gave it a 9.2 its better then halo 2. it comes 
 with CS source which is a really good game also. The storyline is very good and the source engine 
 is awsome. Many cool things happen in the game. The gravity gun is the best gun ever. This game 
 is kinda scary. The level ravenholm is full of zombies and they are scary, but after that it isnt 
 that scary. If you don't have this game you should go buy it right now. it is a must have for any 
 person. This game is perfect, i loved every second of it. You get to drive a boat and car and some 
 other awsome stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is the sequel to half life 1. You fight a force called the combine they came to earth 
 after the black mesa accident and controled the earth.
  gameplay 10/10
  hud is just a minimalist hud. It has a crosshair ammo check and health. Unlike other games who 
 put like wind speed or direction. The story line has many plot twists and a kick ass story which 
 is both intresting and immersive.
  Graphics 10/10
  The graphics are just gorgeous not only that but the half life engine is the most efficient engine 
 of all. I have a Geforce 5500 and i run this game at 30-40 fps. Unlike the doom engine this engine 
 can run well on any graphics card.
  Sound 10/10
  You can hear every bullet ripping into a combines chest or hearing his head blow up.
  Value10/10
 
  I got this game for 20$.. it also came with counter strike source which is a very awesome game.
 
  Reviewers's tilt 6/10
  Damn i hate steam its some bs that makes you download it from the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danigozne
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  I read the reviews and saw some videos, the game looked awesome. then I bought this game, and I 
 couldn't play it. When i tried to install it the steam thing, and it says my CD-key was not valid. 
 I looked in the valve website and as I live in spain and they tell me to send it to USA, it's better 
 for me to buy a new game.
  
  I saw most people marks this game as a good one, and nobody talks about how annoying is the installation 
 process. People is probably blinded, but the nazi politics of some companies are unbearable to 
 me and it should be for a medium critic person. If we accept this situation, very soon we will 
 be treated as pirates even after having paid for the games. There must be other solutions to solve 
 their problems rather than **** over their own clients. Meanwhile, I recommend anyone another good 
 games like Battlefield of FEAR that you can install them in around half an hour instead of the 
 3/4 hours that takes installing HL2. (If you're able to do it of course) .
  
  Also, did you think what will happen when, after 2 or 3 years you want to play the game? You'll 
 have to buy it again, unless you saved the code for your steam account, and having in mind that 
 a computer must be re-formatted every 3/4 months, a lot of people will lost it.
  
  I thougt nobody will read my review, but I received a couple of mails insulting me, just because 
 I didn't like their favourite game. That encouraged me to post in other magazines, and make this 
 review a bit longed and deep. Thanks to them.
  
  As I couldn't play it my mark is 1, abysmal, the lowest possible. I don't recommend anybody to 
 buy this game nor anyone from valve, nor sierra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambo_Potter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I can think of barely anything negative to say about this game. The graphics are beautiful and 
 it is one of the most immersive experiences I've ever had. This is the best storytelling method 
 I've seen in a game as it never takes you out of the game into a cutscene. you feel like you're 
 there and part of the story. The characters really come to life in the Source Engine with facial 
 expressions and life-like movement. You can feel the despair in the expressions of the first people 
 you encounter at the train station. The game play is addictive and the gravity gun is tons of fun 
 to mess around, especially at the end. A game that cannot be missed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BartdaMan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I was looking for a good first person shooter a long time and there it was: Half life 2. I can 
 play this hours in one day. The story is great how longer you play how better your skills become 
 and you get better weapons. The story is playing in a world where you can not live free anymore. 
 Nasty people are a kind of agents in the beginning you must get away of them but later you got 
 to kill them all.
  
  THE GRAPHICS in HL 2 Are great, nearly all the things are 3D even if you play it on low quality 
 it is pretty nice. Only some things lying down on the ground arent 3D but if you look at the agents 
 you forget the things on the ground immediately and all the all the other things you see. If you 
 shouldnt know any better you thought you where in real life.
  
  THE GAME PLAY is very good I don't have problems with it it's just very good :p, i can't say more 
 i think...
  
  THE SOUND in HL 2 is great all guns got a other sound and if you are walking you here that you 
 walk if anyone is coming from behind you. you here him running or walking. An other important thing 
 is that the sound fits with the atmosphere and so it is in HL 2 I ever played a game it was a tactical 
 shooter and then you hearing a funny song or if you shoot with you normal pistol you here the same 
 sound if you shoot with your magnum that was so boring game.
  
  VALUE of half life 2 is okay its worth what it is but you need not the best but a pretty good computer 
 so if you arent got a good one then it cost much then I should not buy but its now my choose you 
 must choose yourself
  
  LEARNING CURVE AND DIFFICULTY The learning curve if you never played a first person shooter is 
 30 to 40 minutes But if you are just a normal gamer and played some first person shooter before 
 then the learning curve is 5 minutes. The difficulty is different you can choose it yourself if 
 you are a bit gamer then put it on the normal difficulty cause if you put it on easy its just to 
 easy. So simple is that.
  
  Conclusion: AWESOME GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoeJohn531
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is an excellent game. I encountered zero glitches in my first run through the game. 
 The gameplay is solid, and decently balenced. If there is one thing I can fault it for, that would 
 be how easy it is. Even for a casual gamer like myself I noticed that I only died about 10 times 
 my first time through the entire game.
  
  The weapons of half life 2 are pretty standred without being too boring. The only real exception 
 being the gravity gun, which I absolutly loved, almost to a fault. I guess sometimes throwing barrels 
 isn't the best way to face off against an army. 
  
  I really loved the sci fi story, and the way it is told throughout the game. The fact the Gordan 
 Freeman never talks just makes him that much cooler. It's amazing how much people love the silent 
 hero in the game.
  
  I think that I will definatly be playing this game for a long while, and because I purchased the 
 GOTY edition I will be able to have some old school fun on counter strike also. 
  
  ...
  Also I would like to mention that the ONLY glitch I ran into playing this game, is I was able to 
 look through a wall one time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cairnblow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a great game with both good graphics and good game play. Also it has the sense of 
 danger and make your skin crawl. Its is a cross between quake and counter strike and includes everything 
 people want in a good game. It is also one of the most addictive 1st person shooters out of all 
 the 1st person shooters. As well as the great game play and graphics it is also one of the most 
 nail biting, jumpy action games in the gaming world as it has many unexpected things that happen. 
 This game is real good value for money as it is easy to learn and takes time to complete but isn't 
 hard enough for you to just get stuck on one part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kil3r
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  This game half life 2 is one of the best games ever made the wait was about two years but it still 
 came out as a great game too bad we didnt get to see the other weapons but they kept in the greatest 
 gun of all the gravity gun. The graphics are amazing they look close to real. The gameplay was awesome 
 they made the gameplay difficulty not so easy but just right with the puzzles they made it harder 
 but killing the creatures and conbine was easy. The sound effects were very nice also if you shot 
 a barrel across the room and it hit the wall and break it would sound just like a real barrel breaking. The 
 mods are awesome for half life 2. Example garrys mod. In gmod you could build whatever you want out 
 of people and other objects in half life 2. I give valve a thank you for creating this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moto-x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  This game is worth your money. Buying Halflife2 off the shelf will give you Counterstrike source 
 for free. This is a huge value.
  
  Half life 2 is truely a great game. It is incredible, it feels like you are in a movie and you 
 never got the script. The graphics and sound are PERFECT. Gameplay is fast paced and entertaining. 
 Replay value is extremely high. The story is incredible, it is interesting the moment you hop off 
 the train in city 17. 
  
  From the groggy voice of the mysterious "GMan", to the moan of zombies, this game will keep you 
 entertained for hours on end. The length for first timers is around 9-11 hours. 
  
  Pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdcrofts
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 has big shoes to fill. It is the sequel to arguably the best PC game of all time, and 
 has been highly anticipated the entire six years leading up to its release. I am happy to say that 
 the game doesnt disappoint in the least. The beginning sequence starts on a train, perhaps a throwback 
 to the original Half-Lifes railcar ride. Fortunately, this train ride doesnt take a good 10 minutes 
 to get through, which is a welcome change. Im sure one of the first things many will notice after 
 stepping of the train is the incredible detail put into the games world. People you see walking 
 about have a genuine look of fear on their faces, soldiers will aggressively attack you if you 
 get in their way, and small photo-taking droids will flash you every so often. Its small details 
 like these that make you really care about the fate of the game world. 
  After about 20 minutes of introduction into the world and inhabitants of City 17, the action begins, 
 and satisfying action it is. Once you get your first weapon, you will be on the edge of your seat 
 as you gleefully blast your way through soldiers, headcrabs, zombies, and flying buzz saw droids, 
 or manhacks. The downside is, with the exception of a few miniature boss battles, these are the 
 only enemies youll face. Luckily, since each encounter with an enemy has its own specific layout 
 and strategy that you should apply, the tedium of facing similar enemies is kept to a minimum. 
 The other factor that makes most of the battles a blast is the Gravity Gun, a weapon that can grab 
 and throw any small or medium-sized object. You will have a blast as you fire saw blades, exploding 
 barrels (the old clich) , and even the enemies themselves around. The action is also broken up 
 with vehicle-driving scenes, which also are incredibly fun. The gameplay is definitely the highlight 
 of Half-Life 2, which is a nice change from most of the recent games that showcase their graphics 
 more than anything else. 
  At this point in time, you can only find Half Life 2 in its Collectors Edition packaging, which 
 is fine by me. Included with the game is Half Life 2: Deathmatch, which lets you use your gravity 
 gun skills to use online, and Counter-Strike: Source, which is a visual update on the original 
 Counter-Strike, but is still a total blast, and even though its old, the gameplay holds up well 
 against most modern team-based shooters. Also included in the Game of the Year package is Half 
 Life: Source, which is an update of the original Half-Life game using the source engine. Sadly, 
 this is almost the same game, and the source engine doesnt mean that the game will have modern 
 graphics, since the models are still their 6-year-old versions. However, if youve never played 
 the original game (shame on you) , youre in for a treat. 
  In closing, Half-Life 2 is a game that no PC gamer should miss. The nonstop action, great pacing, 
 and beautiful art design will please even the most jaded first-person shooter fan. And, at $30 
 in most stores, the game of the year edition is an even more wonderful deal. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  Gordan Freeman is back in Half Life as a employ of the G-Man. And after Valve left me hanging after 
 the last game this made the pain go away. You find yourself like in the last one starting of in 
 a train that is taking you to god knows were. But soon you meet up with your old pal Barney you 
 guard freind from Black Mesa. And soon you meet up with people you know and you dont. And you learn 
 that Black Mesa is gone and you are now int City 17 and when Gordan was in his long sleep one of 
 his inmidistater from Black Mesa has taken over the wourld pretty much and Gordan joins a resistence 
 that wants their freedom back. Wi'll this one has almost half of the wepons that Gordan used in 
 the first you get one godly wepon the gravity gun. And the only thing I really didn't like was that 
 I thought the story was less then the first one but the game is better in many ways.
  
  Gamplay: just as tight and good as the last one but Gordan dosen't run like a man on fire anymore 
 and he throws like a MAN not a little girl.
  
  Graphics: unlike the fist this is the best I have ever seen (but I also said that when I say Half 
 Life for the first time) . This is like the cream of the crop this almost looks real it is amazing.
 
  
  Sound: Like the fist it is all up to your speakers but if you have the best then you can listen 
 to the sounds of Half Life 2
  
  Value: Unlike the last one this came with no extra stuff (but i got both Half Life and Half LIfe 
 2 on steam) but i think it came with deathmatch
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abduls
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  To start with, hl2 offers the best gameplay ever.... The graphics roars with unbeatable realistic 
 details and beauty. The sounds are out of this world. Another awsome thing is the physics of this 
 game which allows you to do ANYTHING in the world of source. Locations are well designed with a 
 satisfying atmosphere. Weapons have a 'Hard Core' feeling and I just love the gravity-gun... Ok, 
 the story could have needed a few extra coatings, but you completely forget the damn story and 
 infuse into the game itself. Half-life 2 really hits the spot for the hl fans!!!
  
  Alright, a few bads...... AI is disappointing, the guy just stands there to be killed. This makes 
 the game less challenging than the previous Half-life installment. But that could be to make a 
 smooth flow through the game.
  Annndddddd... that's it!!!
  
  Gamers should NEVER EVER ba afraid to cough up their savings to buy this game. And I do suggest 
 this game for novice players. It's simpley from another world!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid_47
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  We waited. And waited again. And waited some more. Finally, in November, 2004, Valves highly anticipated 
 first person shooter, Half Life 2, hit the stores. There was a lot of hype to live up to, and boy, 
 does it live up to the hype.
  
  You are Gordon Freeman. The game kicks off with you looking into the eye of the G-man, the still 
 mysterious figure who has hired you once again. You wake up in a train, on your way to what is 
 known as City 17. Secretly, with the help of Barney (a good old friend from Black Mesa) , Alyx (your 
 female friend) and other familiar and new faces, you start to uncover secrets to Dr. Breen's "perfect" 
 city and his army, the Combine soldiers. You'll move through the likes of City 17, Ravenholme (think 
 Doom) , and highways. There are more environments which are amazing, but are important to the story. 
 This story is so engaging, even if you don't like FPSs, you'll stay to see what happens to our 
 friends.
  
  The first thing that catches your eye is the graphics. Truly, this is the first game (apart from 
 racing games) with photorealism. Even from the first frame, when you look into the G-mans moist, 
 reflective eyes, you just realise how much the Source engine has to offer. Facial expressions, 
 full lipsynching and high res textures just add to the illusion that you're in a living, breathing 
 world.
  
  Physics. The name Half Life 2 is synonymous with physics nowdays. It is terrific. Using a heavily 
 modified Havoks engine, the physics is actually part of the gameplay mechanic, and you'll just 
 have one hell of a time playing around with it. Then there are little nitpicks. The physics, coupled 
 with graphics, seem so believable, but of course there are limits. One wonders how some small things 
 cannot be done, like lights being shot out or materials not behaving a certain way. However, what 
 is given certainly shines in the spotlight, so you won't notice it much. It is arguable that the 
 physics is one of the key components which makes Half Life 2 so compelling.
  
  The sound is superb. Every tink, kaboom and clatter sound crisp and clear. The music suits whatever 
 situation you're in, but it usually is a upbeat techno track. The thing that you'll remember, however, 
 is the voice acting. Top notch voice acting comes from almost everyone, and they do sound believable.
 
  
  The gameplay, in my opinion, has had the least amount of improvement. Sure, it is engaging, and 
 downright action packed, but essentially, it's no more better than any other FPS. You'll go through 
 Half Life's usual arsenal: the pistol, the magnum, crossbow, shotgun, and a few machine guns, as 
 well as a rocket launcher. Some "alien" weapons are at your disposal too. But what saves Half Life's 
 gunplay from being generic is the gravity gun. It is . Basically, you can punt, or grab and throw 
 objects at enemies or obstacles. Materials behave accordingly, which makes it all the better. Truly, 
 this is one of the better weapons of recent years. 
  
  The A. I, for all the hype it has received, is just above average. Even then it's borderline above 
 average. The Combine don't really work as a team (they seem to be trained militants, so why no 
 such tactics) , and during certain sequences, I cringed everytime an ally warned me of some danger, 
 yet went out into the crossfire. Because Half Life 2 is pretty much top notch in all categories, 
 it does not detract from the game much, but you'll wonder where all the hype had gone.
  
  You'll be able to finish this game within 12 hours. You may want to replay the game again, like 
 I did, but I only played it again just to see the beautiful graphics and muck around with the physics. 
 That's where mods come in.
  
  Counter Strike is getting old. Sure, it's fun, but the only people that think it's stille the king 
 of multiplayer games are those that play Counter Strike like their life depended on it. Half Life 
 2: Death Match is amusing, because unleashing hell with a toilet bowl has never felt so good. The 
 gravity gun is used to perfection in multiplayer, and it will be awhile before you get sick of 
 it.
  
  Mods are free and are plentiful, and although mods on the calibre of Garry's Mod are few and far 
 between, you will feel like you're getting your money's worth on this game.
  
  All in all, Half Life 2 is definitely a must have game, simply because it is one of the most engaging, 
 most immersive and most compelling first person shooters of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon243
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is the best game ever cuz their graphic is so cool, the sounds effects are cool, the 
 map is good. But the problem is that the course is hard though also their is no multiplayer.
  
  The most coolest thing is their is a cheats to unlock all weapons but the problem of the code 
 is won't acess it won't give me weapons and the flash light won't activate but the most problem 
 is that i won't get through cuz the puzzle is hard.
  
  half life 2 is the latest game ever they made it nice all the people like it, the gameplay is long, you 
 could ride on a boat or jeep, also you could play with your friends.
  
  Many people are trying to download it but sometimes they complain about the error and the installs, mine 
 works fine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromace2938
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  I never really played half-life until they released the xbox version. I thought it was pretty impressive 
 but after looking at screen shots from the PC version off websites like this one, i began to feel 
 like i wasn't really experiencing the full half-life universe and all of it's game of the year 
 winning glory.
  The story puts you back in the mind of Gordon Freeman, a time traveling commando by night, a scientist 
 with an MIT degree by day. The game opens up with the "G-man" has he is known, is telling you that 
 your hour to save everyone has come again, and your awake in a train on the way to city 17.
  After crawling through security, and meeting up with old, well designed friends, the transportation 
 device that is supposed to carry you from the lab in city 17 to black mesa east malfunctions and 
 sends you alal over the world, much like the beginning of half-life 1/ source.
  Most of the game consists of story telling through intense firefights and well thought out conversations. 
 They arn't exactly cut seens, but the game kinda forces you to be there when the conversations 
 happen. The game is about 80% fps and 20% vehicle battles and coversations. Firefights may be fun 
 at first, but after a while you kinda realize you are playing the same battle over and over again, 
 just in a different place. The weapons, the may look and act different, but it really doesn't matter 
 which one you use, because they all are strong enough to get the job done. Also, not a single weapon 
 has a scope, making sniping and accurate shots hard to achieve. 
  It's not very challenging, if you can get through halo 2 on heroic, you can breeze through this. 
 But some of the puzzles do take some brain power and the repetitive fire fights are broken up with 
 squad battles that are a little more involved and vehicle sequences that allow for fast paced battles.
 
  The story is involoved, and even if you have played through both games to the fullest potential, 
 you still need to look up some other facts on wikipedia and half life websites. But as complicated 
 as it is, the story does make sense when you put everything together and it really is what puts 
 this game above the rest.
  Buy this game. It's that simple PC gamer called it "the best game ever made". I wouldn't call it 
 that, but it still is up there in the top 20. It's and instant classic that should be in anyone's 
 collection if they want to call themselves a "gamer" or whatever those normal people call us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  THE LONG AWAITED SEQUAL: i had heard so much about this game since it came out, my pc at the time 
 was only barely capable of playing the first half-life so thats why i only got it very recently. 
 Half-life back in 1998 was the first multi axis fps i had ever seen i was only nine when i first 
 played it, and it scared the hell outta me, i still loved it though, ive since beaten it several 
 times, everytime as good as the last. It was quite replayable because many of the locations of 
 the game arent very memorable so playing it again you forget about certain parts of the game and 
 playing it again is just like staring all over again, that head crab that nearly gave you a heart 
 attack so many years ago will still make you jump!
  
  i only wish i could say the same for half-life 2. I really wanted to like this game, but it doesnt 
 match the 1st one at all. there is no replayability factor, annoying since its still a fairly expensive 
 game. 
  
  THE STORY: i was so shocked at how little this story line fits in with the first game. Its almost 
 identical to the story to the film 'equilibrium' (a film based around a 19th century novel but 
 set in the near future) a race called the combine has enslaved humanity all of a sudden trying 
 to rid humanity of its instinct and emotion, this race uses the headcrabs as seen in the first 
 game as weapons against the underground resistance, who now control Xen, the border world, and 
 can now use teleportaion devices with the aid of the vortigaunts from the 1st game. But heres the 
 problem, HL1 was set in and around modern times, the marines were using modern aircraft, tanks 
 and weapons, yet HL2 is set in a futuristic city called city17, the combine have nothing to do 
 with the aliens from the first game, im not sure whether theyre human or alien, i havent beaten 
 the game so mabey it'll sorta make sense (although thats not what other people say) It is cool 
 to see characters from the first game and its expansions, but none of them actually fight along 
 side you.
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND: excellent, doesnt really affect the game though
  
  GAMEPLAY: similar to the first game, but much easier. the headcrabs are slower, the AI is scripted, 
 the enemies never improvise tactics, they pull the same 'cool' manouvers every time, such as jumping 
 through a window and shooting you, whereas in HL1 a marine would just have thrown a grenade from 
 cover. the enemies just charge at you, they rarely use cover and die really quickly, i hate scripted 
 AI especially after playing games like farcry and HL1. most of the game is spent alone with no 
 allies, even in to squad based parts later in the game it still feels like you are alone, the allies 
 are so useless and expendable, oposing force was far better. the new weapons are this games saviour 
 they are really cool and very origional. the gravity gun which we all know about is the basis of 
 all of the physics puzzles in the game, staying true HL1s style, but it also make encounters with 
 enemies really predictable, if you see a buzz saw lying on the ground you can garuantee the next 
 room will be full of zombies which you can kill with one click. I wont ruin too much of the gamplay 
 parts for you so ill finish up here.
  
  CONCLUSION: good game but it should have been released earlier, before games like farcry, which 
 actually surpass it. if you've never played HL1 play it! dont just play this one first, if you 
 have played it, you should check this game out seeing as so many people seem to love it. im not 
 saying this game is bad, im just saying i dont really like it, it just lacks the sci-fi horror 
 feel the 1st one had, its also much shorter too 
  
  i hope this review was of any help, but make sure to check out some of the reviews that score this 
 game really high, to get that side of the story/opinion
  
  gamespots actual review is quite helpful too
  
  i couldnt be bothered to read back over this 
 so if theres any mistakes, well i dont really care you get the idea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luna7fox
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is not nearly as good as most people will have you believe. Its just a standard, run 
 of the mill FPS with nothing particularly new or memorable. This game is a perfect example of a 
 safe sequel.
  
  The story is ok; it starts out a bit bare, but does pick up later on. Although, you have to work 
 for it and boy is it long and tedious after a while. I found the story elements very rushed during 
 the game, so you never really get a sense of purpose while youre playing or any sort of fondness 
 for the characters. Often, youll be herded through a small outpost of humans who say, "Quick get 
 to Point X!" but they never tell you why. It all eventually becomes clear, but only if you persevere 
 through the dull level design and extremely repetitive gameplay. 
  
  The main problem is the level design; it has very little variety. For most levels it follows the 
 sequence of a tunnel to a room with a shooting sequence followed by a tunnel to a room with a puzzle 
 of some sort. Within that basic framework, there will be an open area thrown in. For vehicle levels 
 the sequence is as follows: tunnel/road to an outpost where an obstruction blocks the way ahead. 
 The sequences are predictable, and youll find yourself walking into rooms and tunnels looking 
 around and thinking, oh its this bit again. The graphics and level environments are recycled and 
 recycled and recycled some more, just like the gameplay. Its fun to start with but once youve 
 seen and done the same thing for a few hours it gets boring and tedious, and becomes a chore. The 
 open areas are nicer, but less frequent. At times, it feels like Halo, where theyve dressed up 
 the open areas for the press shots and the hype, cloaking the fact that the bulk of the game actually 
 exists in boring enclosed spaces. My other problem with the level design is its restrictiveness. 
 The only doors/paths you can open/take are the correct ones, coming from Far Cry, Half Life 2 feels 
 constricted and claustrophobic. There are some great sequences in the game, but they get buried 
 beneath the bulk of the monotonous corridor trekking and are quickly forgotten. I found that in 
 every level I reached a point where I stopped, looked around and thought, oh its still this level? 
 Come on! I want something new. Unfortunately, that something new never emerges.
  
  The weapons are very limited and primarily geared towards close range combat meaning theres little 
 to no variety in gun battles. There are only two long range weapons, and only one of those is useable 
 against infantry, which has such scarce ammunition that youll use it maybe 3 times in the entire 
 game. The only weapon with constant refills is the SMG, which means youll almost always have to 
 employ the run and gun strategy holding the SMG. The pulse rifle has the capacity of merely 60 
 rounds, so its empty before you know it. The pistol and shotgun are great, but both suffer from 
 a lack of ammo refills. The magnum is useless. The gravity gun is ok but its obviously a gimmick 
 to draw attention away from the dullness of the gameplay and focus it onto the groundbreaking 
 physics engine. It also functions to solve almost every puzzle in the entire game. If youre a 
 bit stuck theres about a 95% chance the answer lies in the gravity gun and moving some boxes around.
 
  
  These two main flaws  the poor level design coupled with the uninspired weapons makes for a dull 
 and mediocre gaming experience. These two elements are fundamental to an FPS and have been overlooked. 
 The campaign is not overly challenging; there are rarely shortages of health packs or suit charges 
 so youll not have too much trouble beating it on that level, but only if the boredom doesnt get 
 you.
  
  Following are some of the minor issues that are worth mentioning. Every human, save for the few 
 main characters, are voiced by the same people. Also, the character models are all the very similar, 
 with only minor differences in skin colouring and costume. When you do encounter a squad situation 
 with your fellow humans, your cohorts are irritatingly stupid and never fail to get in your way. 
 Theyll close you into rooms, blocking all exits, theyll follow so close behind you that if you 
 decide to change directions, youll have to barge into them and wait until they disperse again. 
 Its extremely frustrating. Throughout the game there are only 3 different enemy types: Combine, 
 Ant Lion, and Head Crab. It feels like the designers were seriously lacking material with this 
 one.
  
  Im just trying to make a point about how overrated Half Life 2 is. It really is not the greatest 
 game of all time, but its not the worst. It falls into that creamy middle like the majority of 
 games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutti92
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  Game play: Just like any other first person shooter you just move your mouse and click. The weapons 
 were just like any other first person shooter except for the gravity gun that was a bit of a change 
 it was pretty fun to pick stuff up with but its not that great.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing. The water effects .... every single thing in the game looked 
 magnificent.
  
  Sound: Sound was great. The music wasn't that good though.
  
  This is the best first person shooter you will find. It is very short you can probably beat it 
 in less than 10 hours. I highly recommend this game if you like first person shooters. If you are 
 not a fan of them stay away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are Gordon Freeman and after the Black Mesa incident from the original Half Life you 
 get sent back to Earth by the G-Man to stop the combine invasion.
  
  Graphics: Pros-Weapons look great, models are well detailed, environments are varied and stunning 
 to look at, Lip Syncing looks great
  Cons-None
  
  Sound: Pros-Voice acting is solid, music is good adrenaline pumping stuff, weapons and enemy sounds 
 are well done
  Cons-None
  
  Game Play-Great use of physics used throughout the game, puzzles are interesting enough to keep 
 you entertained, guns are satisfying to use and firefights can be greatly intense
  Cons-Some areas can feel repetitive, puzzles can get pretty difficult
  
  Replay Value-The SP 
 portion of Half Life 2 is pretty long and can take you 15 hours to complete, then theres the Multi 
 Player which is a Spoused up version of Counter Strike which sets counter terriorists facing terrorists 
 either rescuing hostages or defusing a bomb so its very addictive
  Only problems with counter strike is that there are a lot of cheaters around and some server play 
 the same maps over and over again (who isn't sick of Dust 1 and 2 by now?)
  
  Overall-Half Life 2 is a brilliant FPS that keeps you entertained throughout and the fact that 
 it contains Counter Strike which is widely regarded as the most popular on line game ever can only 
 be considered a bonus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  When Valve released Half-Life in October of 1998, little did they know they would re-write the 
 rules for a first-person shooter entirely. Fast forward to today with Half-Life 2 and Valve is 
 still making the same revolutionary strides in gameplay and technology.
  
  Half-Life 2 pickups where Half-Life left off, although no-one is entirely sure what time has passed 
 since the events of the first game. At the end of the first game the Gman gives you a decision 
 and neither choices consequences are clear at that time. During the opening sequence of Half-Life 
 2 the Gman reappears and calls on you to be the right man in the wrong place and you simply appear 
 on a train and begin the game. Throughout the game you will notice some creatures you once fought 
 now appear friendly and helpful. Subtle nuances like this create a believable displacement for 
 you as the character Gordon Freeman.
  
  Most of Half-Life veterans will feel slightly disoriented with the story and members of it (mostly 
 because there were only two scientist models in the first game) . Therefore Dr. Kleiner and Dr. 
 Vance will be largely unfamiliar as individual people, even though they both mention specific instances 
 in the early portion of the game. For instance Dr. Vance was the black scientist that told you 
 to go for help in the first game and Dr. Kleiner was the scientist in charge of the experiment 
 that resulted in the resonance cascade. Not to mention Barney, who was EVERY security officer in 
 the first game, returns as a singular character in Half-Life 2.
  
  Its safe to say that some time has passed since you resurfaced within City 17. Another missing 
 gap in the story is exactly where City 17 is in relationship to Black Mesa and who exactly Dr. 
 Breen is. These all get revealed over time, but it leaves something to be desired within the first 
 couple hours of playing the game.
  
  Noticeable immediately after the Gman stops talking with you is the technological strides made 
 with the Source Engine. Everything looks and feels incredibly realistic. Most noticeably with the 
 Source Engine is the attention to imperfections that give Half-Life 2 its most realistic aspect. 
 Things like concrete and plastic have dents and other various defects that you see in common items 
 like soda cans and trash bins, which extremely convincing. Other small noticeable details like 
 dirt and smears are extremely obvious when you get placed into an urban environment.
  
  One great change to the first person shooter genre that Half-Life introduced and Half-Life 2 builds 
 upon immensely is the in-game music. Unlike most epic shooters with orchestral scores done by 
 symphony orchestra. Half-Life 2 settles for nothing less than suitable slow and heavy metal during 
 action and chase sequences throughout the game. These heavy metal pieces inspire a sense of action 
 and tension in the scene that wouldnt be possible with classical music.
  
  The ending to the game remains much the same as the first one. After what seems like a victory 
 against all odds the Gman appears and extracts you. He also makes note of telling you he has received 
 many offers for your services, and that further assingments will follow. His history and employers 
 remain a mystery.
  
  If its the story, the graphics, or the believable environments that will ultimately get you to 
 try Half-Life 2, I can tell you with certainty that you will be overwhelmed by how immersive this 
 game is. From the vehicle chases to scaling the Combine Citadel there's no arguing that Half-Life 
 2 is destined to be remembered as the greatest shooter of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This is a very amazing but it is a system hog so since people have great computers to run this 
 game it is amazing its also amazing that u can have a bunch of people picking up stuff with a weapon 
 and use it as a sheild and when the other person reloads you throw ur shield at the guy . This 
 makes u think thatHey why cant I just run and shoot" but when u do u die u have to actually 
 be tactical alittle bit not all the time but this is the 2nd best game i have ever played. So if 
 u want the challenge of Halo 2 vs Half-life 2 the winner would be neither because these games r 
 the same on different consoles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solaris222002
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  I can't get over how amazing this game is. I would probably rate it just a little tiny bit above 
 Halo: CE. You play as Gordan Freeman an MIT graduate who was sent to Black Mesa a research facility 
 on Mars and after a freak accident in the test chamber Gordan had to fight for his life on an alien 
 home world known as Xen by the G-Man. In Half-Life 2 you continue your journey with Gordan this 
 time to stop the Combine who are attempting to turn all the humans into Combine. You along with 
 Alyx Vance and her faithful robodog DOG, Eli Vance, Dr. Kliener, and Barney will try to stop the 
 Combine invasion of Earth. All FPS fans will love this game, the story is amazing wether you've 
 played the first Half-Life or not, the gameplay is top notch and something that really stands out 
 are the characters, there animations and emotions really make you care for them. Absolute must 
 buy for anyone that loves a good story and awesome gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 77662
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  A great FPS is finally introduced in this game. Half Life 2 is a spectacular game far out.. The 
 crew over at Valve putted a whole lot of work into this game. Gordan Freeman is awakened by the 
 G-Man finding himself working for the man again. In the beggining your're aboarding a train to 
 City 17. As soon as you get off you'll find the Combine patrol is all over the place. Breen, the 
 founder of the Combine, you'll see is taking over City 17. Therefore Gordan will have to go and 
 stop it before Breen rules forever. During time you'll meet classic characters you met back in 
 Black Mesa. And you'll meet people that are very new. The characters look spetacular and amazingly 
 digital. This game you have your standard weapons. The SMG, AR2, Rocket Launcher. This time you're 
 using a weapon. The Zero Point Energy Field Manipulator. Standardly known as the Gravity Gun. You 
 can pick up an object using this and throw it with a whole lot of force. This can save ammo so 
 use it neccesarly. The voice overs are amazingly good. They sound very realistic and each have 
 their own style. This game overall is incredible. For a price like that, the game is really worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoraledGamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to begin on this game. Half-life 2, the sequel to one of the greatest games: 
 Half-life continues the story seen through Gordon Freeman's eyes. A brief introduction to the game 
 is that the G Man (who I still don't know much about) apparently sends you or more specifically, 
 Gordon Freeman, to City 17 where human beings are being under heavy watched by the Combine. The 
 Combine don't look different from humans, but they are actually an alien force that has pretty 
 much taken over. As the events that follow from there, you'll meet up with memorable characters 
 and find yourself in a raging battle between the humans and the Combines. That is generally how 
 the story is throughout the game.
  
  Now let me talk about the game itself in terms of graphics and gameplay and stuff. The game is 
 just hands down gorgeous. I have never in my life or have yet to see a game that can pull off the 
 looks that Half-life 2 has shown me. Everything is detailed to almost the dot, now I say almost 
 because I really don't expect the developers of Valve to actually detail everything in the game 
 to how it should be. Everything is a lot after all. The paint cans and soda cans have details on 
 them, but they're a little fuzzy around the edges. Still that's a really minor detail when compared 
 to the overall beauty of the game. In this game, you can just look around and see how well Valve 
 created this world to not only look real, but also to give the player the sense that he/she is 
 really there and in a new world.
  
  The fact that when I destroyed a plank of wood and could still be able to pick up a piece and see 
 the detail of it is outstanding. If that's not enough to convince you that this game is gorgeous 
 then just look at the screens or ask your friend to try it out. The overall sound is up to match 
 with its graphics. Even though the guns are fake, they give off a feel that they might actually 
 be real. Course those weren't my first thoughts, my first thoughts were "Die, Die, DIIIIIIIIEEEEEEE". 
 Yeah the sound effects are great too which gives off a great feel of combat, or impending doom, 
 and other stuff that is probably there and I just can't name. All I have to say about the sound 
 effects is that when playing this game, the sounds fit so perfectly that you pretty much forget 
 that you're playing.
  
  The voice acting I have to say the best that I have heard in a game since, wel awhile. Whoever 
 the voice actors were did an amazing job in bringing these characters to life. Like I said before, 
 this game makes you feel like you're really there. There's never a cutscene or in-game cutscene 
 which I failed to mention before. That's really the reason for the fact that it seems like the 
 characters are talking more to you than Gordon, and also Gordon never talks so it doesn't mess 
 up the whole I'm in the game thing.
  
  The fun factor of this game would be a "I have to beat this game all the way through right now" 
 kind of game. Funny thing is that I did exactly that. Yup, I played Half-life 2 for 15 hours straight. 
 15 hours lost yet I don't regret it one bit. Back the fun of this game. To put this in shorter 
 way, this game is so much fun you will forget how good looking this game is, how good it sounds, 
 and the fact that you were holding in your pee for the last 2 hours. Yes, take it fom me this game 
 is fun. Course unless you hate me or fps games then I can't do anything about that.
  
  The game supports ragdoll physics which makes killing enemies all the sweeter. Just watching them 
 die in different a spectacular ways is an achievement all its own. This adds to the fun factor 
 of the game. What makes this game different from the first one? Well, beisdes the much better graphics 
 is the whole package. It is still a Half-life franchise, but in my opinion has turned itself from 
 a caterpillar into a butterfly.
  
  Another reason to get this game is the fact that it comes with Counterstrike: Source (the better 
 looking version of Counterstrike which is also one of the most popilar fps online games and Deathmatch, 
 I believe now it comes with more but if not then this is still a great deal)
  
  Course if you hate this game and tell me about, then I'll come to your house and shove a head crab 
 up your beeeeeeppp- Experiencing Technical Difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veer-zaara
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  again u play Gordon Freeman a scientist turned bad a** u return 2 earth to fight the combine who 
 has taken over the earth!!! u will familiar and new faces like all grown up Alyx Vance, Eli Vance 
 and Judith Mossman, and new weapons like a crossbow dat can spear someone to a wall and a gravity 
 gun dat can manipulate objects around u like chairs . u'll be playing through City 17, Zombie-infested 
 ravenholm, and former high security prison but something much worse nova prospekt. with the new 
 psychics engine makes it awesome blasting some idiot with a shotgun then watch body fly back. this 
 is just one of the best games ever so take my advice n buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The source engine is the best engine ever made. The physics in this game are astounding. 
 The charecters are amazingly detailed and you feel like you know them in reeal life after you beat 
 the game. There is also alot of people in the modding community making some awome mods using the 
 Source engine. This game is just so perfect in everyway. 10
  
  Graphics: Amazing. Breathtaking. The graphics are still the best on any platform and the game is 
 from '04! The Lost Coast Download truly shows off the source engines beuty. 10
  
  Sound: Voice acting is superb. 10
  
  Value: Its very long and kept me playing for weeks thats 
 how long it is! 10
  
  Tilt: Buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeGates
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Here is game that has everything packed into one 12 hour long experience.
  It has its driving, shooting, horror, team command parts. The graphics are beutiful and the physics 
 elements add alot to the gameplay. And its stunning gameplay changes enough to keep you going through 
 the whole thing. It also has intresting NPCs like Alex Vance and Barny Calhoon to aid you through 
 your journey in City 17 and beyond. Its many awsome puzzles and obstacles makes this game everyting 
 but easy. so if your an avid gamer and have the computer to run this masterpeice than go and buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttime32
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  I had heard such great things about Half-Life and Half-Life 2 before I even had the thought of 
 buying it. Then when it came on Tech TV as possibly the greatest game ever made, I just had to 
 buy it. When I first started out the game, I found that it took me a little while to get used to 
 the puzzles and all of the keys, but after that I absolutely loved it. With amazing graphics, stunningly 
 intelligent AI, and challenging puzzles, this is all a computer gamer could ask for. To get the 
 full experience though, you do need a very powerful computer. Before I bought my x850 XT Platinum 
 Edition, I had just felt that the game was good, but after I put that new graphics card in, it 
 became amazing. Then, when the single player is all done, two multiplayer games come packed with 
 it. Counter-Strike: Source and Half-Life 2: Deathmatch, make it become a fun game on multiplayer 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobo24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I have just recently gotten a good enough computer to play this game. I know I'm a little out of 
 date but oh well. Anyway, I played through never missing a beat, loved the graphics, loved the 
 game play, and most of all hated G-Man. Just a few minutes ago I went out and bought Episode 1 
 but havn't had time to play it, if it is anything like Half-Life 2 then I will still be greatly 
 impressed. I recommend this game to any and all who have a good enough computer and the time to 
 take pleasure in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allnamestaken
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I never know where to begin with a game like Half-Life 2. Sure it was a cool game, I mean it had 
 all the flash it needed, but the poor game didn't want to decide what it wanted to be. It felt 
 kind of like the developers all sat down and said, Okay, what we want to do is cram as many different 
 things to do in an FPS as possible. Inside HL2 you'll find: your basic blow the **** out of stuff 
 parts, Your survival horror parts, your puzzle parts, your squad teambased parts, your cinematic 
 parts, your lead your army of critters bits, hell you've even got your driving bits to boot. With 
 all the different stuff going on, it's really hard to put a face on the game. It doesn't feel like 
 the game has any personality. The only emotion I could seem to draw was loneliness. I constantly 
 felt uncomfortably insecure while playing this game. It was the most curious feeling I have probably 
 ever felt playing a videogame. Sometimes while driving around in one of the car bits or fighting 
 off the countless attacks of enemy soldiers, you might think to your self... man I wish there was 
 someone here who could blow the heads off these aliens with me! The game desperately needs a funny 
 character to lighten up the mood.
  
  All in all its an awesome awe inspiring game, but it's lonely and emotionless atmosphere got me 
 little enjoyment out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastershake1337
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I played half-life a couple of years ago i thought it was good but man when I played half-Life 
 2 Oh my god the graphics are great the weapons are just right maybe a bigger clip for the RPG. 
 the sounds are perfect, AI not stupid like most games. The best part is near the end NOT a spoiler 
 but when you first start out you come out of a train station and the police push you around and 
 hit you later you come back through the same spot with a few friends and kill them. but the best 
 part is near the end you lose your guns but you find a awesome weapon in "Garry's mod" they refer 
 to it as the physics gun and it owns anything. If you love FPS and blowing stuff up this is A must 
 for any fps fan thats all GO and BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sausn2002
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Pros = 
  
  Half Life 2's graphics engine is cutting edge and will be superior for years to come, especially 
 with its use of physics on objects in the game. Because of the physics, its the best action I've 
 seen in a game, and you can use the environment against your foes. Shoot the leg out from a small 
 bridge and have the whole thing fall down on some unsuspecting foe.
  
  Game runs on just about any PC system and still displays tremendous graphics potential/runs at 
 a good frame rate (game also on original Xbox game console for the TV) .
  
  Alot of "little touches" on the graphics. Its great to see the wind from an aircraft push up the 
 water into a mist, see the little breaks in glass, and see how light reflects around each tile 
 on a floor (thanks to mipmapping graphics) .
  
  Artificial Intelligence has more precision and enemies know their environment well and will spread 
 themselves out among an environment in a smart display of their use of gun fire. You won't see 
 an enemy be stupid and crouch down to think they can be tough enough to take the blast radius of 
 a grenade like in the original game. They know how far to clear a grenade and will not let that 
 stop them from "taking you out".
  
  The environments have a great presentation. Its great to see how the series continues on. Its like 
 being apart of some really good movie and it has more creativity than any movie can muster out. 
 You just can't get this kind of detail from a movie, and when you are the one pulling the strings 
 and doing what you want in it.
  
  Story in the game is well thought out. You really want to care about the characters in the storyline. 
 Even though the game doesn't have any real squad based combat (see one of the cons below) , it feels 
 great to fight along side your "brothers in arms" and protect their cause.
  
  Cons = 
  
  Artificial Intelligence of enemies lack any real squad-based combat tactics (with the nature 
 of my real life career, this would be a great amusement to me) , but I guess this would make the 
 game close to impossible to beat.
  
  The missions based on vehicules are a bit too long, but help the game to not be too repetitious 
 with run and gun gameplay.
  
  Story is set-up similiar to the original where much is a mystery and you figure things out yourself 
 (I had to look around my environment, like I looked at a newspaper posted up on a wall and it helped 
 me find out how the world reacted to what happened in the original game with aliens invading earth) , 
 however because of the better scripted sequences with Non-Player Characters, the story and presentation 
 is much better than the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMoogle
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  "The right man in the wrong place can make all the difference in the world..."
  
  An excellent line from Gman, but there's just one problem. City 17 was the perfect place for Gordon 
 Freeman. It made an amazing game, spawned several great mods, and left a lasting effect on gaming.
 
  
  Half Life 2 begins pretty much where the first Half Life left off. Assuming you chose to work for 
 Gman, that is (since the other choice was death) . It also starts the same way, with you riding 
 on a train. However, this time you are not alone. A familiar face is in front of you. Actually, 
 no. The face is not familiar. It looks nothing like the Gman of the original Half Life. In fact, 
 this face looks too realistic. Too well animated. Ah, wait. Of course. Half Life 2's graphics are 
 stunning. True, they are not the best. However, combined with the art direction and the animation, 
 it will command your attention.
  
  The game wastes no time in getting the action going. Just as soon as you think it's safe, the Combine 
 chase you through apartment buildings and rooftops. Luckily, when you get surrounded and all seems 
 lost, Alyx comes in and saves the day.
  
  Many of the characters in Half Life 2 are from the first game. Some are not, such as Alyx and DOG. 
 But others like Kleiner should look familiar. 
  
  While you're fighting through City 17, and other places, you'll have a large arsenal at your disposal. 
 You've got your pistol, shotgun, SMG, etc. The basics. And your crowbar. Can't go anywhere without 
 the crowbar. But the best weapon in Half Life 2 is not standard. It's the Gravity Gun. When you 
 get to Ravenholme, you will see why this is easily the best gun in any recent FPS. Picking up saw 
 blades and blasting them at zombies, slicing their torsos clean off. Picking up and launching flammable 
 containers into a fire, igniting your enemies. It's all good with the Gravity Gun.
  
  Despite the common stereotype of FPS's, Half Life 2 does have a well written and well crafted story. 
 But the best parts aren't fed to you. Let's just say to keep your eyes open as you explore the 
 world of this game.
  
  Surprisingly, there are some catchy tunes in the game. Unusual in an FPS, but appreciated. The 
 guns, for the most part sound good. The SMG and pistol sound pretty weak, but otherwise everything 
 else is fine. However, the best sound in the game is easily the voice acting. Whether it's Breen's 
 overconfident boasting or Gman's chilling explanations, you'll not forget the voice acting.
  
  So that about sums it up. Half Life 2 is a great game, and the episodic content only enhances 
 it. Personally, I can't wait to see how our beloved series ends. And the mystery behind the Gman 
 of course.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlr2k8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  the prequel to half-life 2 (half-life) brings you into a world of disaster, and makes the crumbling 
 planet around you feel like a reality. the story in both games pushes the limits on the FPS genre, 
 because of its interpretive storyline.
  
  in terms of graphics, it was good. however, there is lack of character diversity throughout the 
 game, which makes almost every secondary character seem identical to one-another.
  
  the sound effects throughout the game were almost the same as the original half-life. nothing really 
 stood out, but it was good.
  
  just a miscellaneous thought: i was kind of annoyed to find out that friendly fires are not allowed. 
 i know this must sound really stupid, but i miss the old game where you could kill a scientist 
 or a guard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMMiE_D
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Half life. What a game. It adventured into the darkest depths of the world and universe with the 
 whole secret base for research, with portal technology, awesome new weapons and monsters in Zen 
 were very sweet. It most definitely deserved the high scores it got.
  When half life 2 can out, I was over the moon. The gman would finally be able to give you the new 
 "jobs" that you were chosen to do, and I couldn't wait to do it.
  Gordon firstly woke up from the gman talk. I was in a train of some sort. Seemed kinda different 
 to the beginning I was expecting. But what the hell, it was gonna get better. This is half life. 
 Start off slow, but gets better by the second. The story, while different to the norm, was a bit 
 vague though, but it did keep me playing throughout.
  The only problem I have with the gameplay itself, is the vehicles. My god they were used tooooooo 
 much. Half of the gameplay was just the vehicles over terrain which is the same. luckily, there 
 is a lot of adventure while in these sections, with drain pipes, abandoned houses and caves. There 
 are some bloody amazing levels though, like ravenholm is orgasmic and scary (not quite on par with 
 doom 3/FEAR scariness) , then the last few levels at the citadel are unbelievably kool.
  The value is good, considering that you get half life 2, half life 2 deathmatch, half life lost 
 coast and counterstrike source, bt I cant help feeling the shortness of the actual game. It only 
 plays for around 5 hours, even on the "hard" difficulty. Once you have completed it, it becomes 
 far less fun that when you started out. There are many more games out there that are just as fun 
 second time around. Return to Castle wolfenstein, Call of Duty are just a few to name.
  As for the feature that apparently make or break games nowerdays (Like graphics) , Half life 2 did 
 have good graphics when It can out. The characters looked realistic and less plastic, but there 
 were no features which scream out, like doom 3 with its shadows, or Battlefield 2 with its vastness. 
 Half life 2 just seems more like an extra detail setting when compared to previous games, if you 
 get what I mean. Nothing new, just better. Its the same with the gameplay. The original Half Life 
 had so much more originality. The only real thing I can think of with Half life 2 is the energy 
 balls and gravity gun, other than that, its all the same.
  I would recommend Half life 2, but don't expect to always love it, like what the magazines say. 
 Its a good game, but not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raphal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't picked up your copy of Half-Life 2 today, you should. Even if you don't really like 
 First Person Shooters, this game has a lot more to offer.
  
  The Gameplay is extremely interactive. With beleivable ragdoll physics and object manipulation, 
 you could have fun with throwing beer bottles at the Civil Protection guards, who are one of the 
 main enemies in the game. fight your way through each of the 13 levels with intense action and 
 suspense in each level. fight multiple alien races and some of the same races from the original 
 Half-Life, like the Headcrab and the Zombie, and also different species of the Headcrab and Zombie. 
 Also fight a new half-alien race called the Combine, which are humans transformed into a Combine. 
 Alien mind, Human body. You will be fighting these guys the most. 
  
  Graphics are amazing in so many ways. they are pretty lenient and you can customize the graphics 
 to work with your Video Card. If you have one of the latest, greatest cards around, this game should 
 look AMAZING. the effects and the little details like a paper's reflection in the water bring this 
 game to life. The only upset is if you have a card that is decent, not great, the game (no matter 
 what you do) will studder like crazy when you start it up, and can do that for even 10 minutes. 
 Loading times can be a pain as well for lower end cards. sometimes they could take about 15 minutes 
 to load the next scene.
  
  A great soundtrack mix of speedy Techno and suspense Horror music, mixed with electric guitars 
 and speedy sounds, make the game seem like you are starring in a Hollywood action movie! The sounds 
 out of the guns sounds pretty good, the pistol sounds kind of like a BB gun, but other than that, 
 it is awesome. Muffled sounds of distant gunfire can be heard in the distance, and even the sounds 
 seem to "bounce" off the walls!
  
  Great value for your money, and don't forget that Counter-Strike Source is also included in the 
 package. It is one of the Greatest online FPS's ever. find action anywhere. Great buy, highly recommend 
 you get this game. The campaign is very replayable and never gets old. The campaign can take roughly 
 20-30 hours to complete straight through. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I think that most people can agree that Half-Life is one of the best games ever. It proved a thrilling 
 action, great monsters, and an amazing story to top it off with. After the cliff hanger ending 
 of Half-Life there was bound to be a Half-Life 2. After nearly six years of development Half-Life 
 2 arrived.
  
  In Half-Life 2 you once again take the role of Gordon Freeman, the protagonist of the first game. 
 You are brought out of stasis by the G-Man to find earth, well a little different since the last 
 time you were there. It turns out that the portals opened from the first game allowed a much more 
 evil entity to enter earth. The Combine attacked earth, but spared the humans 
  because one human, Dr. Wallace Breen, formed earths surrender. Thus he was put in charge of Earth. 
 Needless to Earth has become a pretty crappy place to live. Combine police patrol the streets and 
 will often brutally beat or even kill civilians. The Combine has placed a toxin in the water that 
 makes people forget their past. And ruling over it all is the Citadel in City 17. As Gordon, you 
 arrive in City 17 to only be pulled aside by a Combine Officer. He takes you into a back room. 
 He sends the cameras away saying, Im gonna need me some privacy for this. Then he takes off 
 his mask to reveal that its Barney, the security guard from Black Mesa. He tells you to head to 
 Doctor Klieners Lab. While heading there you meet Alyx Vance, the daughter of one of the scientists 
 from Black Mesa. When you arrive at Klieners lab, he feels the need to transport you to Elis 
 via a new teleport they have developed. Alyx goes through fine, but once its your turn things 
 go wrong. You begin being teleported to random locations. One of the brief stops you make is to 
 the top of the Citadel. It's here that Doctor Breen sees you; this is the thing that gets everything 
 started. He sends out the entire combine force to find you. After several more teleports you finally 
 arrive just outside of the teleportation room. This is really where Half-Life 2 kicks off, as youll 
 have to make your way through varied environments, battling the Combine army, as well as a few 
 other enemies, new and familiar. 
  
  Just as in Half-Life the action in Half-Life 2 is always intense. The action just never seems to 
 stop. One moment you could be fighting Combine soldiers, and the next you could be trying to figure 
 a way to cross an electrically charged pond. This is the main reason why the Half-Life franchise 
 is so great. It always features great action that will have you sitting on the edge of your seat. 
 There are so many unique moments in Half-Life 2, theres just too many to list here.
  
  But one of those unique elements I will touch on is the Gravity Gun. Half-Life 2 features an amazing 
 physics system. I still consider it one of the best. Sure other games had tried to incorporate 
 a physics engine, but none had incorporated it as well as Half-Life 2. There are hundreds of objects 
 in the game. In fact other than ground, almost all of the objects in the game apply to the law 
 of physics. This immerses you into the game so much more. Anyways back to the Gravity Gun. The 
 Gravity Gun really lets you have fun with the environment. Primary fire on the gravity gun sends 
 an electric charge to the object you shoot it at and this causes said object to be propelled. This 
 is all and good for knocking out boards that are blocking doorways, but not much else. The real 
 fun is the secondary fire. This allows the Gravity Gun to pick up an object. You can then press 
 primary fire to launch the object. Now this can prove useful in many situations. One example is 
 buzz saws. You can pick up a buzz saw and launch at an enemy, so this means you can never run out 
 of ammo as theres always objects lying around. Another use for it is for cover. Say youre getting 
 fired at from a ways off but you dont have any long range weapons. You see a large wheel barrel 
 lying beside you. Pick it up with the Gravity Gun and begin walking towards your enemy, avoiding 
 the fire thanks to your new found shield. A last example is in the use of puzzles. You can easily 
 pick up some crates and begin staking them, allowing you to get to higher up places. 
  
  The graphics in Half-Life 2 are absolutely amazing. Great looking graphics all around, but there 
 is one thing Id particularly like to point out. Thats the facial animations in the game; Valve 
 incorporated a new facial animation system into the Source engine that allows the characters to 
 create realistic expressions that draw you into the game even more. This allows the characters 
 to emote all kinds of feeling thanks to this technology. This creates a much more real, and believable 
 world. In fact animations look great across the board. Things from running, shooting, and interacting 
 with the environment all look great.
  
  Just like the graphics the sound is no different for Half-Life 2. Just like Half-Life the game 
 features very little music and it gives it a very unique feel. Thuds and cracks made by the objects 
 in the game all sound great, but theres one thing that takes stole my attention from the other 
 sounds. Thats the voice acting in the game. All of the voices are Hollywood quality. And in combination 
 with the new face posing technology its makes the characters come alive.
  
  Much like the first Half-Life, this one features a great mod community. Already there are tons 
 of great mods out there, and the mods aren't going to stop any time soon, so the ability to keep 
 playing this is nearly endless. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is an amazing game. It provides exciting gameplay, a great story, and proves that physics 
 in games can alter the way you view a game. The Half-Life franchise is one of my particular favorites 
 and Im glad that Valve didnt mess it up with Half-Life 2. If I could only own one game, itd 
 be Half-Life 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBox-Buddy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 a very Amazing game. The graphics are superb and use a nice realistic feel to it, Graphics 
 also very on what kind of graphics card you have , i have a Geforce 6600 and it works really well 
 with the graphics.
  anyways back to the game, this game uses a wide veriety of uniqe wepons and stuff. For instence 
 The Gravity gun has to be the best one because you can use many objects around you as wepons like 
 i have found a wide verity of wepons like I just picked up a nice saw blade and cut some zombies 
 in half or just pick up a gas tank and whatch enimies burn up in a pleasureable splur of fire. 
 But these simple things arent only what makes this game soo good. The face animations are amazing! 
 I somtimes forget that they are not real! the voice acting cannot get any better! and the soundtrack 
 is no pushover itself. But dose having all of this really make you want to pay $50 (maybe even 
 less now..) for a game? yes because you can also get Counter Strike Source on this baby (which 
 is better than the original) so if you have adecent enought computer, and a decent enought graphics 
 card, you owe it to yourself to get this wonderful game.
  ( i also heard its good on the Xbox too, not nearly as good on Pc, but still it is good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The physics are absolutely a reason some people are buying this game. They're Hollywood unbelievable!
 
  The graphics are awesome as well. The textures are all high resolution and look amazing. The 
 character models actually look the best than in any game.
  As high end as this game is, I can honestly say this. It runs on 256MB of memory. When I was trying 
 to get married, I sold 2GB of memory and other misc crap to get a wedding ring. I had to go out 
 and replace one of the sticks so I bought 256MB of PC2700 memory. Half-Life 2 ran. Now, I didn't 
 say it ran very well (because it didn't) but it did run.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The story is a lot different from the original Half-Life and I don't feel it completely puts you 
 back in getting to know Gordon Freeman. This time I just feel more like a grunt from Quake or something.
 
  Letting the black head crabs pick at your brain. Yummy.
  
  :Overall:
  Half-Life 2, despite not being the fullest of sequels, is a great game with lots of modifications 
 to actually shake a roof top. The multiplayer is top notch and with the addition to Counterstrike: 
 Source and Half-Life: Source, there's no need to pull out your old Half-Life CDs ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  STORY  Half Life 2 picks up where the previous game left off. The world is being ruled by a mysterious 
 foe called the COMBINE. Dr. Breen one of the scientists at the Black Mesa Facility is now ruling 
 City 17, a city torn apart by the combine & alien life forms. Only a hand few of people have chosen 
 to lead a rebellion against this so called Government. The rebels are fighting a losing war but 
 their hope soon starts rising up with the mysterious return of Gordon Freeman & so our game begins.
 
  
  SOUND  The voice actings, sound effects & bits of musical scores are just amazing. The actings 
 are so well done that it sounds just like a normal conversation & not made up. Perfect dialogue 
 deliveries make the sound even better.
  
  GRAPHICS  Graphics in the game are just amazing, the textures, water effects, environments and 
 physics are simply the best the gaming world have ever seen. Theres nothing more to say about 
 the graphics as they are simply outstanding. SEE IT TO BELIEVE IT.
  
  GAMEPLAY  HL2s gameplay is a lot of fun. The diverse environments & various types of enemies 
 give the name Half Life a whole new meaning. Apart from the usual gun fights you get to control 
 turrets & vehicles to move on land as well as water. Whats good about the vehicles are the physics 
 & that they arent only there to finish off the bad guys easily but they also blend in well with 
 story. The game is not only about action & youll soon realize that strategy plays an important 
 part in getting around your environment. Environments in HL2 are so well designed & taken care 
 off that youd have to say its just diverse & amazing. Talking about environments, you can also 
 use your environments to finish off Gordons enemies. The games A. I. is good with the exception 
 of the combine soldiers who just play dumb. You get a variety of weapons from a pistol to a rocket 
 launcher but what really steals the show in Half Life 2 is the GRAVITY GUN. This baby can lift 
 anything that can be lifted, when youre out of ammo or want a different experience you can always 
 use the Gravity Gun to play around with the bad guys.
  
  THE GOOD  Brilliant graphics, Amazing voice actings, diverse environments & enemies, Fun filled 
 gamelay, gravity gun, & its Half Life.
  
  THE BAD  The combines A. I, Story is good but not well explained.
  
  THE VERDICT  All in all 
 its easy to see why Half Life 2 won GAME OF THE YEAR.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  I have my Pros & Cons, I'll start out on the negative first so I can end it on a excellent postitive 
 note.
  
  If your playing this game straight through it will only take about a Day and Half to Beat. maybe 
 less to beat. My only complaint about this game is its too short for a Highly Anticipated Sequal 
 to a Classic Game Series. 
  
  Okay, enough of the complains lets get to the praise of it.
  
  Pros
  1) Very Mysterous Storyline 
 a touch and a tap into the Half Life Universe a bit more. 
  
  2) Outstanding Voice Acting by the Actors and Actresses.
  
  3) The Environments and the Physics 
 in this game bring a since of merged, realism with surrealism, Reality and Fantasy mixed together. 
 Its a "Most Impressive." concept in this game, and I hope they do this for Half Life 3 and make 
 it even better. 
  
  4) Tons of Replay Value Absolutely. The fact that you can play a whole new game and start on whatever 
 chapter you want, makes this most definitely replayable.
  
  5) Gameplay is very action packed, and intense from the get go. theres almost not a single boring 
 part what so ever. Also with the combination of realistic physics makes this over all enjoyable. 
 From bodies flying to explosions, to throwing and picking up objects with the best weapon in the 
 game the Gravity Gun, its one if not the most enjoyable aspect of this game.
  
  6) Traditional Sense. As with the first one this one leaves alot of unexplained questions and not 
 enough answers, however, in this case, it works SO much better than explaining it all in one game 
 or two, it works well with the HL Universe, and look forward for number 3.
  
  
  Bring on Half Life 3!!! 
  
  Over all a Near Perfect Game. Solid.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomicskis55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  HL2 was one of the most anticipated games in all of history! The sequel to the suprise hit Half 
 Life was expected to be one of the greatest games we have ever seen. HL2 delivered with mindblowing 
 graphics, realistic physics, and great inovation. 
  
  Although maybe without a great storyline, HL2 is as good as it gets in game-play. The single player 
 mode will get you through anywhere from 15 to 25 hours of exciting fire-fights, vehicle levels, 
 and of course, headcrab ass kicking. After adding the single player mode to the endless numbers 
 of mods, add-ons, and multiplayer games (counterstrike source, HL2 deathmatch, etc) this game is 
 well worth the 50 dollars for everything.
  
  The graphics of HL2 are amazing, even now in 2006. They were only outdone by Doom 3 in 2004, and 
 only a handful more look better today. This game is also very good in the sense that even if you 
 have on old sytem (Pentium 3, ti200,256ram) you are still able to play this game with reasonable 
 frame rates.
  
  My favorite thing about HL2 is the edition of the gravity gun!!!!! With this, all kinds of new 
 puzzles and strategies can be unlocked. The gravity gun is my favorite weapon in the whole game 
 because it never runs out of ammo, as long as there is something to be shot, you will always have 
 ammo.
  
  All i can say is to go out and by this game. I put it off for 2 years and now regret pushing off 
 such a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Facter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Not everyone will like Half-Life 2  instead theyll love every second of it. That is, apart from 
 an agonizing conclusion, which practically guarantees youll be counting down the years until the 
 next Half-Life. Half-Life 2 (HL2) opens with a quick (and pretty ambiguous) monologue from the 
 mysterious G-man the suitcase-carrying gentleman from the first game that made an offer that just 
 couldnt be refused. As Gordon Freeman, youre taken by train to City 17, under the control of 
 the alien Combine, and the mysteries start to boil from there. The story itself is played out entirely 
 from Freemans point of view so any transition scenes or plot points are seen through his eyes. 
 And youre only getting half the story if you dont take the time to absorb the incredible ambience 
 and clues within the game world that fill in some of the blanks that the scripted cutscenes make. 
 Even taking my time  listening to the pervasive radio broadcasts, paying attention to conversations 
  as the game progressed I still couldnt piece together exactly what the Combine Overwatch was/is 
 planning for Earth. There are glimpses near the end of the game of units that remain tantalizing 
 out of reach or close enough to really describe. Theres the distinct impression that theres a 
 whole lot more going on here than meets the eye. And speaking of eyes, this is an easy game to 
 look at. True, the flashlight physics may not be as advanced as Doom III  shadows only get cast 
 from fixed light sources  but the sense of actually being in the game world has never been this 
 good. Even on the minimum hardware specs HL2 manages to shine. Inseparable from this world is a 
 physics engine, which is nothing less than groundbreaking. Do you spend a ton of ammo trying to 
 takedown a bridge full of Combine soldiers? Or just put a couple of slugs into the pile of explosive 
 barrels underneath the bridge and watch the whole thing blast into the sky? I got into the habit 
 very quickly of looking for environmental advantages or things to fling when the Gravity Gun 
 is acquired. (More on the weapons later.) There are a few instances of questionable physics during 
 some of the vehicle portions of the game, like miraculously remaining seated after a flip, but 
 mostly youll be impressed. Things float, you have to adjust sniping shots for distance and so 
 on. Theres one part of the game that features an electromagnetic crane and I spent at least 30 
 minutes reloading a quicksave just so I could play around with heaving shipping containers around, 
 the enemy AI isnt as impressive but it still manages to present a challenge. Most times you have 
 to deal with numbers rather than intelligent AI. At least it feels like that during some of the 
 more heated confrontations. Enemies still take cover or will flush you out with a grenade but there 
 are a lot of instances of Combine forces rushing toward rather than away from Freemans bullets. 
 However, even the headcrab zombies will use objects in the environment  hurling barrels and the 
 like. Basically, you never know exactly how an enemy is going to respond.
  
  The enemy variety is great. The headcrabs return (along with a few frightening variants that can 
 spell instant death if youre not paying attention) but most of the opposition is new. The massive 
 Blue Behemoth from the first game is nowhere to be found and the energy expelling Vortigons are 
 working with the humans in a non-combat role but the new enemies, particularly the manatee-shaped 
 gunship, the awe-inspiring striders, and the pesky whirling-blade headhunters more than make up 
 for any void the original baddies left. Then there are the ant lions
  One tool you get to use actually controls the sand-dwelling ant lions. But until that tool is acquired, 
 the sight of open sand should be enough to send shivers up your spine. Another tool is the ultra-gimmicky 
 and ultra-cool Gravity Gun, which quickly become my weapon on choice. Yes, walking around with 
 a metal barrel does obscure your view but next to the crossbow (which shoots red hot pieces of 
 rebar) and a double blast from the shotgun, nothing takes down a Combine soldier faster than a 
 barrel to the head. And enemy grenades suddenly become useful instead of dreadful since they can 
 be fired back at the enemy with the Gravity Gun (as long as youre quick on the draw) . Everyone 
 will develop their own preferences and style but some areas require certain weapons to be used. 
 For example, when facing off against a pair of striders you want to use the rocket launcher, because 
 as cool as the .57 Magnum is it just wont do the job. Besides Freemans complement of weapons, 
 at times he has limited command over a squad of fighters. The commands are the very basic Go there, 
 come back and they tend to get in the way a lot but having some back-up makes the game world that 
 much more believable (and provides other targets for the Combine) . Another help to creating a believable 
 world are the varied locations that Freeman travels through. Unlike the first game where Freeman 
 spent most of his time indoors with the occasional sprint across a minefield or billy-goat cliffing-jumping, 
 Half-Life 2 has Freeman going from dusty depressing cityscapes, to ocean beaches, stretches of 
 highway, an abandoned prison, underneath a massive bridge, and buildings in-between to the final 
 confrontation in the citadel that dominates the skyline of City 17. There also a nightmarish excursion 
 an area called Ravenholm thats a clear nod to Neil Mankes They Hunger Half-Life mods. Or it may 
 not be. In this writers opinion theres plenty here for fans of the previous game to appreciate. 
 Characters from Black Mesa return including Barney in a more heroic role and Dr. Kleiner with a 
 very odd pet. New characters include Alyx Vance and her hilariously loyal protector, Dog. All the 
 characters are animated believably; the facial features in particular and are many light-years 
 beyond the original Half-Life. The audio design truly adds another level of immersion to the experience. 
 Although there are many, many examples (like the banshee scream of the Combine manatee gunship 
 or the tht-tht-tht-tht of an ant lion in flight) , maybe the best one is what happens when a grenade 
 goes off close to Freeman. Youll hear half a bang then a high-pitched whine to simulate ringing 
 in your ears. Often this is accompanied by a blinding flash. Flailing around blind and deaf is 
 almost a guarantee youll be hitting the quickload key. There has to one weakness present  something 
 that can flaw the overall experience. And from the other reviews Ive read multiplayer seemed to 
 be the flaw. Instead of a Half-Life 2 themed multiplayer or Team Fortress 2.0, Valve gives us Counter-Strike 
 Source, an engine update of a game Ive probably dropped 1,000 hours into over the last three years. 
 If you were anticipating a wildly new multiplayer experience youll be a tad disappointed, but 
 for me, Im well on my way to 2,000 hours of Counter-Strike. So no complaints on the multiplayer 
 side and the mod community is certain to churn out more variety. (Im hoping for a version of soccer 
 or basketball using Gravity Guns.) (NOTE: Very recently, Half-Life 2 Deathmatch was been added 
 -- downloads automatically with Steam.)
  
  Half-Life 2 isnt flawless, just like any great work of art, but that doesnt make it any less 
 of a masterpiece. And you just know it will be updated endlessly: mods, niggling with the details 
 over time, an expansion pack or two. So not only is it a masterpiece youll also be playing it 
 for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ethanraiden
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  From the very beginning you can see that Half Life has something that a lot of FPS's still don't 
 have. The original Half Life game prided itself on a grabbing story and well developed characters. 
 Again Half Life 2 brings these elements back to a FPS. But not only does it once again bring the 
 story, but it also brings the gameplay.
  
  The gunfights are superb, crates and barrels alike get blown around by you and the enemy, who work 
 in teams to try and stop you at any cost, the sound of the weapons, the thrill of hiding behind 
 a oak cabinate and then have it blown to pieces and having to find another cover spot, the chatter 
 of the enemies radios as they call for backup, or when the operator declares them dead. All of 
 the aspects of a close combat gunfight have never been more apparent and intense than they are 
 here.
  
  Aswell as gunfights and explosions against a police force of a distorted future, Half Life 2 is 
 able to retain a creppy and sinister atmosphere at all times, wether running from the government 
 through a network of sewers, or slowly pacing around a deserted town wondering what's going on, 
 and then soon finding out.
  
  The aliens are back, and with the amazing source graphic engine, they're looking worse than ever! 
 you can see the once human faces writhe in pain once blowing a head crab of them, and the speed 
 and numbers of the aliens sometimes is all a dead person needs to restart their heart.
  
  Once again Half Life 2 like it's predicessor has delivered a story, characters with actull character, 
 the intensity of a fast paced shooting game, the strategy of a Tom Clancy game and the atmosphere 
 and the urge to kling on to life only seen in survival horror, what a package! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wishbringer15
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  This is my favorite FPS of all time. I don't say that lightly since their are many others that 
 I loved. Their is just something special about this game that sets it apart from the rest. I do 
 have many close seconds like FarCry but given everything with the right hardware this game just 
 simply rocks! 
  
  Gameplay:
  Awesome physics, sweet fire fights, lots of high quality multiplayer. This game has it all.
  
 
  Graphics:
  Simply amazing. They look nice and run smooth, couldn't be better
  
  Sound:
  The sound is fantastic in this game and really immerses you into the story and action
 
  
  Value:
  It is a long game that will keep you busy for hours. Not to mention you will probably want to replay 
 it again anyway. The multiplayer option is also very good
  
  The Bad:
  Not much really, though that whole steam thing kind of stinks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hen0076
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Like I Said Can It Get Any Better?! So No...
  At The Start I Downloded HL2 And Doom3 But The Truth i Really Didnt Expected Any Of Them To Be 
 "The Game" Tha Will Change My Life I Started Playing Doom And I Was Like WoW Very Good Game But 
 Then HL2 Finished Downloading So I Started Playing And The Momement I Saw The Wonderful Graphics 
 Of The Game Then I Really Said WoW!!!
  But Good Graphics Isn't Enough I Was Sure It The Best Part Of The Game And That The Developrs Was 
 So Busy With The Grapichs That They Forgot About The Storyline (I Was **** Wrong) But When I Started 
 Playing I Understend That I Was Wrong It Was Amazing I Started Plaing At 1:00 Am And Couldnt Stop 
 Untill 4:00 Am The Game Was Amazing And Very Very Realistic!! All Happend The Way He Needed To 
 For Every Player EveryWhere Who Loves Shooting Games This Is "The Game".... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  When we take a look back at the 90's, first person shooters were still in their infant stage, continually 
 evolving into better and longer games. Then on that fateful day of October 31, 1998 Half-Life was 
 unleashed upon the world. Half-Life gave new life to a generally new genre which was already becoming 
 predictive in its game design and weapons selection. Half-Life brought gameplay that was never 
 before seen in a first person shooter. Then, six years later in 2004 Valve released the highly 
 anticipated Half-Life 2 to the world, and trust me; the wait was totally worth it.
  
  Story:
  If you've played Half-Life then you most likely remember the mysterious atmosphere of 
 the game, Half-Life 2 is much the same way. In Half-Life a disaster occurred in the Black Mesa 
 Facility which caused a residence cascade, which allowed aliens from the planet Xen to transport 
 themselves to Earth. These aliens began to destroy the facility and Gordon was a simple physicist, 
 who had to take matters into his own hands to stop an alien invasion, and he proved to be quite 
 the capable soldier. Not to far into the game the United States government sent in the military 
 to clean up the mess, but unfortunately for Gordon and his fellow scientists they were sent to 
 kill not just the aliens, but you as well. In the end after fighting against countless marines 
 and aliens, Gordon travelled to Xen to bring the fight to the invaders and destroyed their leader 
 Nihilanth. After this Gordon was confronted by the mysterious G-Man, who was following Gordon throughout 
 his adventure. Gordon was given the choice of dying or working for the G-Man, thus he was put into 
 stasis, awaiting the unknown.
  
  Half-Life 2 begins in the same way Half-Life ended. Gordon wakes up to the mysterious G-Man telling 
 him that his time has come again and places him back into the world. Without any idea of what is 
 going on, or how much time has passed (presumably ten, maybe fifteen years) , Gordon quickly learns 
 that the entire planet has been taken over by alien invaders known only as the "Combine". All of 
 the humans are now controlled by the Combine and it appears as if Earth is doomed. It would also 
 appear that the Vortigaunt aliens who were your enemies in Half-Life are also slaves to combine 
 and now your allies, and they now praise Gordon for freeing them from the control of Nihilanth. 
 Gordon must now take crowbar in hand once again and set off to free the Earth from new invaders 
 and lead an uprising to begin the downfall of the Combine.
  
  Gameplay:
  What makes Half-Life 2 so successful is the fact that it wonderfully combines multiple gameplay 
 styles into a first person shooter. Not only do you run around with a big arsenal of weapons, but 
 there are many other ways of destroying your enemies. One of the most amazing additions to the 
 Half-Life universe is the gravity gun. Because of Valve's new source engine, gameplay in Half-Life 
 2 has reached a whole new level. The gravity gun allows the player to do almost anything they want 
 to in the environment. If there is a group of combine shooting at you, you could easily pick up 
 a grate with the gravity gun and protect yourself from the bullets, allowing you to close it on 
 the enemy and launch the grate into their face, thus killing them. Many other objects in the environment 
 can also be manipulated. There are many times when you can use the gravity or an explosive to break 
 an object, cause a chain reaction of destruction, such as tons of debris falling down once the 
 wooden support is broken, thus crushing your enemies. The gravity gun is also capable of doing 
 many other useful things, it can be used to quickly grab weapons and health packs which are out 
 of your reach and it can also be used to move things more quickly or break objects quicker than 
 your crowbar. It can even be used to grab grenades and other projectiles thrown at you, so you 
 can launch them back at your enemies.
  
  Besides the gravity gun, Half-Life 2 has many other useful firearms at your disposal, if manipulating 
 objects in the environment isn't really your thing. You will find many of the same weapons you 
 found in Half-Life make a return, however most of them will have gone through some changes. All 
 of the weapons are: the crowbar, the gravity gun, a pistol, an MP7 sub-machine gun, a shotgun, 
 a revolver, a plasma rifle, a crossbow, a rocket launcher, grenades and pheropods, otherwise known 
 as "bug bait" which will be covered momentarily. You may have noticed there are no "experimental 
 weapons" ala tau cannon or gluon gun from Half-Life, but I'd say that the gravity gun more than 
 makes up for that. All of the weapons fit into the game perfectly, and each weapon has a particular 
 use. Even the weak pistol you receive early on in the game will remain useful even at the end, 
 and it is particularly useful for taking care of those pesky headcrabs.
  
  Many of the weapons also have secondary functions. Such as the sub-machine gun which has an attached 
 grenade launcher, exactly like the MP5 from Half-Life, and the plasma rifle has an attached plasma 
 ball launcher, which shoots out a big ball of plasma that bounced all over the place that instantly 
 evaporates any living creature it touches. And there was nothing more satisfying than running around 
 with the .357 magnum revolver which sends people flying after their death, Clint Eastwood style.
 
  
  Another significant part of Half-Life's gameplay comes from the vehicle sequences, which is the 
 airboat and the buggy. The airboat sequence happens fairly early on and is weapon-less for quite 
 some time. During this time period there is a lot of helicopter dodging and sequences where you 
 need to get off and go inside a building to open a gate so you can proceed on the airboat. However, 
 eventually when you get to a certain rebel base a Vortigaunt gladly attaches a combine turret onto 
 the airboat, which leads to a pretty fun boss fight against a Civil Protection helicopter.
  
  The other vehicle sequence, which is the buggy, is perhaps one of the best parts of the game. 
 There was nothing better than speeding a long the coast on the highway with the tau cannon from 
 Half-Life 1 rigged onto the side of your buggy, blasting combine and antlions to their doom. One 
 the things that made the buggy sequence so amazing was that there were many opportunities to stop 
 and explore some abandoned houses on the coast which were sometimes infested with zombies, headcrabs 
 or Combine soldiers.
  
  After the buggy sequence is over it also leads into one of the more interesting segments of the 
 game. There is brief area where hordes of antlions will burrow out of the ground and completely 
 pulverize you, unless you carefully hop across the gaps and ledges avoiding falling on the sand. 
 There is also a part where you need to use the gravity gun to position crates and other objects 
 to create a path across the sand, which was a really tense moment. However all of this antlion 
 dodging finally pays off, when you get to control an entire antlion army of your own. The pheropods 
 (bug bait) lets you control a small army of antlions who will do your will. This is one of the 
 most fun portions of the game, when you infiltrate Nova Prospeckt with a group of antlions which 
 completely decimate the Combine forces.
  
  There is also another similar sequence where you will be fighting in the streets of City 17 with 
 a group of rebels at your side. This is where you will fight many of the gargantuan "Striders" 
 which are gigantic tripod creatures with a big plasma gun that can only be taken down with rockets 
 or grenades. The strider battles are perhaps some of the most challenging portions of Half-Life 
 2.
  
  For those who love fighting the zombies, Half-Life 2 hasn't forgotten about you. There are many 
 zombie infested areas, and even an entire chapter, dedicated to fighting zombies where the shotgun 
 becomes particularly useful. Half-Life 2 isn't about to let you go off easy though. Everyone remembers 
 that the zombies from Half-Life were pretty easy to dispose of, and those zombies are back, but 
 they have friends this time. This is thanks to several new headcrabs as well. Besides headcrabs, 
 there are also fast headcrabs, and poison headcrabs, which lead to fast zombies and poison zombies, 
 which are possibly one of the most horrifying enemies in a game. Fast zombies are exactly what 
 the name implies; disturbingly fast zombies that can jump 40 feet gaps across rooftop buildings 
 to completely decimate you. Thankfully the shotgun will be in your possession when these guys roll 
 around. One of the most horrid enemies ever is the poison zombie. The poison zombie is a slow moving 
 zombie that carries several poison headcrabs that it will literally launch at you. These things 
 are horrifying because they drain you to 1 hp instantly with their venom. (You will slowly recover 
 from it) and to make matters worse any other enemies in the vicinity and easily take advantage 
 of your new found low health and kill you. The poison zombies are even more disturbing than they 
 should be though, because of their horrifying moans, and the fact that they have breathing sound 
 which is disturbingly similar to Darth Vader, yet a lot freakier, so you always know they are there, 
 but you don't know exactly where...
  
  Graphics:
  Valve's source engine is an amazing creation, and a superb advancement in graphics and technology 
 for games. Half-Life 2 has the most life-like video game characters in any game. Every character 
 you meet is full of tons of different facial expressions and body language that really makes them 
 feel like a real person, more so than any other game out there.
  
  Besides the amazing character life-likeness Half-Life 2 has the best environments and graphics 
 as well. The environments are huge and are amazingly detailed. Just going along the coast of highway 
 17 is a true sight to behold. Not to mention the source engine creates the most realistic blood 
 and explosion effects yet.
  
  One of the best features is the ragdoll physics and the physics in the environment. Every time 
 an enemy is killed by an explosive they literally go FLYING. And if someone is killed on a staircase 
 their body will slowly slide down the staircase, or if someone is on a ledge the body will hang 
 half way down or in most cases even fall off if the weight is too much. All of the objects in the 
 world also feel like they should. When you pick up and throw an object with the gravity gun you 
 can really feel its weight when you throw it, or when it hits something, or someone. When a car 
 falls and hit the ground it lets of a really loud thud, which really gives the feeling that it 
 weighs tons.
  
  It's almost impossible to describe the amazing-ness of Half-Life 2's graphics and physics, it is 
 simply the best looking and feeling game I have ever played or experienced.
  
  Sound:
  After playing Half-Life 2 every other game's voice acting seems as if it is horrible, even when 
 it is good. The amazing voice work combined with the super life-like reactions and emotions of 
 the characters they almost feel as if they are alive. What is most disturbing is Half-Life 2 is 
 the first game I've ever played that actually made me feel emotionally attached to a video game 
 character because they seemed so real. Not to mention the script in Half-Life 2 is very well written 
 and the conversations between the characters are humorous and have plenty of clever dialogue.
 
  
  The sound effects are also wonderfully done. There are so many sound effects in Half-Life 2 it 
 is almost ridiculous. Every single object in the game sounds exactly like it is supposed to. A 
 pop can, a piece of garbage, a small cardboard box, garbage cans, door handles, wood splinting, 
 water splashing, walking on grass, walking on chain link fencing, walking on wood, every single 
 possible sound is in this game. There is too many to even imagine, but every thing sounds exactly 
 like it should. A perfect example is in Doom 3, pretty much everything you hit with the flashlight 
 makes the same sound. In Half-Life 2 everything you hit with the crowbar sounds completely different.
 
  
  Half-Life 2 features a pretty varied soundtrack, while the majority of it is mostly techno-rock 
 type music it all comes into play at the perfect time. Right when you are running into the street 
 fighting a big group of Combine some good techno music will pop up making the fight seem really 
 intense. When you destroy the last gunship with a rocket launcher some dramatic music will play, 
 when you first step foot into a zombie infested area disturbing music will kick in to let you know 
 something unnatural is waiting to try and rip your arms off. When you are on the run from a helicopter 
 in the airboat while it's dropping bombs in the water at you at the same time that your flying 
 off of ramps getting 30 feet of air dodging collapsing structures, super fast techno rock will 
 kick in to get your adrenaline pumping. All of the music comes in at exactly the right time, and 
 is the perfect fit for the current moment.
  
  Value:
  Never before have I played through a first person shooter as many times as I've played through 
 Half-Life 2 (well maybe except Half-Life 1) and it is just as enjoyable the second and third and 
 fourth time as it was the first time. Half-Life 2 is a fairly long game, after knowing pretty much 
 everything the game takes me about 14 hours, so apply not knowing what to do in the game to that 
 time, and you've got at least 16 hours of gameplay. Not to mention that Half-Life 2 comes with 
 several different multiplayer modes, Half-Life 2: Deathmatch and Counter-Strike: Source which is 
 a remake of the highly acclaimed Half-Life: Counter-Strike. Half-Life 2: Deathmatch pits the player 
 in either free-for-all deathmatch or Combine vs. Rebel teamplay in a variety of maps, which includes 
 all of the weapons from the single player, including the gravity gun. And let me tell you, there 
 is nothing more satisfying than killing one of your friends with a toilet you launched at their 
 head with the gravity gun. Counter-Strike: Source needs no explanation. It is the remake of the 
 original Counter-Strike and it has source engine graphics and ragdoll physics, and is a must upgrade 
 for any Counter-Strike player. Both of these games are highly addictive and have given me hundreds 
 of hours of enjoyment.
  
  Besides it's own multiplayer Half-Life 2 has a huge mod community behind it, and there are already 
 a handful of Half-Life 2 mods out, including Dystopia, GoldenEye: Source, The Hidden: Source, and 
 many others on the way, such as Natural Selection: Source, Sven-Coop 2 and even a remake of Half-Life 
 1, which is called Black Mesa: Source. Putting aside the fact that Half-Life 2, and it's multiplayer 
 modes have given me tons of hours of gameplay, all of these mods are completely free and can give 
 anyone hundreds of more hours of enjoyment.
  
  Overall:
  Half-Life 2 is a rare type of game. Rarely does a game contain so many different genres blended 
 together so wonderfully in such an amazing experience. The gameplay variety, the life-like characters, 
 the amazing graphics, the superb voice acting and all of the available mods, make Half-Life 2 an 
 amazing package. If you have never played Half-Life 2 before, and you think you've already played 
 a better first person shooter, open your mind a little. Forget about your Halo's, your FarCry's 
 and your Doom's for a bit. Go and play Half-Life 2, and have a wonderful time, you won't regret 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  Where to start with such a great game, the graphics are very nice from the water to the lighting. 
 Also the voice acting is more then likely the best i have seen in any game, top that off with the 
 great emotions on faces almost makes you feel like your there. The story which i found cool hadalot 
 of holes in it but i am not to worried sure they will all be filled in come episode 4. The gameplay 
 i found fun and addicting the physics are the best i have seen in anygame to date. all in all one 
 of the best games i have ever played hell this game is why i play video games, pick it up over 
 any other shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Well half life 2 its one of the best games i ever played its prety long and its game story is pretty 
 good made ,well i can say few words about it : Install , Play , You wont be dissapionted ... Well 
 zombies in revelfom were kinda scary i didnt like that map ;] but game was good , hl 2 episode 
 1 wont be dat great like hl 2 , maybe because its short but i dont think so , so i say you must 
 play it , i never thought dat hl will be this great game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicmj1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time. It took Valve 6 years to bring out the successor to the revolutionary Half-Life. 
 But this game is a worthy successor, with a great story, interesting gameplay, and fantastic graphics. 
 It's truly the complete package. No PC gamer should be without Half-Life 2. 
  
  Set an indeterminate amount of time after the first game, Half-Life 2 finds you called upon by 
 the mysterious G-Man once more, as you awaken on a train headed to City-17, one of many cities 
 on Earth, now ruled by aliens known as the Combine. It isn't long before you get your suit and 
 crowbar, and are off to save the world once more. It's definitely more complex than that, but I 
 wouldn't want to spoil anything. 
  
  What really sets Half-Life 2 apart from almost every other game on the market is its lack of cutscenes. 
 The entire game, from the moment you start anew to the very end, is shown from Gordon's perspective. 
 All the characters will talk to you and each other, and relate what's going on. This helps invovle 
 you in the game, and really create a sense of immersion in the events. It's a true shame that this 
 is really one of the only games since the original Half-Life to do this. 
  
  It's quite an adventure. You move from the city to the surrounding countryside and back again, 
 going through a series of diverse and exciting encounters. Valve does a masterful job of mixing 
 up both the settings and the gameplay, with sections involving vehicles, squad-based fighting, 
 and solo combat. Although parts of the game drag a bit, you'll hardly get bored. 
  
  What really sets Half-Life 2 apart from most games on the market is its sense of mood. You really 
 do get the sense that you are in this city in quasi-post-apocalyptic earth. Houses and buildings 
 are scattered around, often requistioned by the Combine for their own ends. There's a real feeling 
 of melancholy in your adventures. 
  
  Most of the weapons you use against your foes are pretty standard. What stands out the most is 
 the gravity gun. This allows you to manipulate just about any object in the environment and grab 
 it or throw it. This is not only useful in a number of ways in combat, but it's also used for puzzles. 
 It helps make Half-Life 2's combat stand out from many games like it. 
  
  The graphics, both technically and artistically, are top-notch. The framerate stays solid, and 
 the lighting is great. The game does a good job of displaying realistic indoor and outdoor environments 
 in many different settings. The characters, especially those that you talk to, are wonderfully 
 animated. The faces give you a great sense of the emotions that the characters are feeling when 
 they talk. The only real problem is that loading times between areas in the game can be rather 
 long, and hurt the otherwise excellent pacing. 
  
  The sound is very good. During combat-intensive sections, fast-paced music kicks in. Otherwise, 
 the soundtrack is realtively non-existent, which is fine. The sound effects are very good, however. 
 You'll know your enemies well when you hear them, and they can create their own sense of dread 
 without need of much help from the soundtrack. 
  
  It's impossible not to recommend this game. The single-player experience is simply unsurpassed 
 just about anywhere. It only leaves you wanting more, and the amazing mod community delivers that. 
 There are numerous single and multiplayer mods available, and Counter-Strike: Source comes with 
 the game. Get it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent-slayer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Ok so i though my PC would get demolished trying to play half-life 2 however it turned out that 
 it does it very nicely on High detail! Half-life 2 is one of the hardest games ever to review because 
 the story is great and the feel is perfect however there are too many annoying little "puzzles" 
 several times each level that are just NOT FUN. They have been made to show off the "physics engine" 
 its very obvious the physics are great! The story is also pretty weak and hard to understand. The 
 other issue is that some parts of this game for e. g route kanal and highway 17 really lack action 
 and make me think twice before playing this game they have really long walking/driving parts and 
 it can be a really long time before you meet several combine. However this game has a few levels 
 that have tons and i mean tons of action for e. g the ravenholm level and nova prospekt.
  However this game still delivers with unique ideas, original and fun weapons (gravity gun, crossbow 
 e. t. c) , great graphics and gameplay, a perfect feel as in this game you actually feel you are in 
 a war and you are a hero but not a one man army. The enemies in this game are imaginative (except 
 perhaps the combine who look like they might have came from a sci-fi movie) , the graphics really 
 suit this game the art design and graphics fit together really well and well what can i say great 
 game but still multiplayer is an issue as its isnt that great but oh well at least there is CS: S 
 with it. Overall great game and a must buy. My pc is lame but can still play this game at 50 or 
 so frames on high detail so give it a go i reckon your PC could play it decently too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk9795
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  The story is amazing. It is very believable, and realistic. It is full of action, questions, answers, 
 and big twists.
  
  The gameplay is awesome. You get a whole arsenal of weapons in the game. Everything from shotguns, 
 to a gun that can manipulate objects call the gravity gun. And the weapons are given to you over 
 time so you are not to powerful during the game. In the game there are several drastic firefights 
 that will make you think about what to do next. And the weapons you get feel just right for the 
 level.
  
  The graphics are amazing. Thanks to the source engine everything looks exactly like it is supposed 
 to. From a soda can on the tip of a trash can, to smoke bellowing in the air of city 17. 
  
  The sound in the game is perfect. The submachine guns, and shotguns sound just like real guns, 
 but with a futuristic touch. The human vehicles sound great because they are actually taken from 
 vehicles in real life, then adjusted to fit the setting in the game. The Combine vehicles sound 
 like something familiar but futuristic at the same time so they sound just right.
  
  The physics in this game are wonderful. Everything from couches to soldiers act they would in real 
 life. So you can push boxes in front of doors to hold the door back, but they can be pushed out 
 of the way. And you can take advantage of the physics with the gravity gun. For example, grabbing 
 a chair from a dinner table and hurling it at a Combine soldier and have them fly across the room.
 
  
  The level design in the game is great. From city 17 to the coastline, it all look realistic. Sometimes 
 you will find yourself just taking a minute to look around at the enviornment. And it is all believable, 
 not fake looking. 
  
  In the end this game is the one of the best in the genre. Everything combined makes you think you 
 are actually in the middle of a revolution. It is worth more money then the price they are selling 
 it for. So if your a fps fan who like to think in action, this game is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frog_jr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  I'm not saying it can't get better. But it hasn't yet. I really enjoyed the gameplay, the graphics, 
 the vehicles (these vehicles have class!) This is a classic FPS, and so the plot is kinda secondary 
 to the action, but they try to make up what they lack in depth of story with awesome, spectacular 
 graphics, and an atmosphere and a feeling about it that is so thick you could cut it with a knife. 
 I really liked this atmosphere and graphics a lot! I think they have blown away all the other FPS 
 games so far, and I hope other great ones are developed with the HL2 engine. I have tried Vampire 
 Bloodlines (Pretty good, but seriously adult theme and graphics, not for kids -- and also is not 
 a shooter game, but a role-playing game which uses the HL2's realism to create awesome characters) 
 and Sin Emergence (Weak as the original Sin, no pun intended) and am about to dl HL2 Episode 1, 
 and I'm sure it will be just as good as HL2. But I want more, and better!
  
  I would also like to get rid of Steam, guys. I really hate the fact that I have to be connected 
 to the internet to play a single-player game. That just leaves me with a bad sensation. But I have 
 done it anyway. If I really have to I will do it, but I am anxiously waiting for a hack that lets 
 me play w/o being on the internet, which is just a bad idea. Valve, you guys can do online activation, 
 that's fine. But ful-time online while playing, that is just fishy. 
  
  And my ranking of the learning curve of this game is largely because I don't have a joystick. I 
 feel like these vehicles require a joystick, which I really don't want to use, as fun as it may 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tymydog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  wow thats all i can say about this amazing game I can not desribe how good this game is i bought 
 the game of the year edition and it costed $40.00 and belive me it was the best $40.00 I have ever 
 spent in my life i am 11 and this is the best game I have played in 11 years. the only problem 
 i had with this game was that you need a goooooooooood computer to run it. and the mods millions 
 of mods good and bad. I personaly think this is a game ahead of its time the entire game engin 
 is the largest i have ever seen no one has ever spent as much time on a game engin as valve has. 
 thats the point this game is only one game the game engin set hold millions of games. that brings 
 me to another point this game is not as long as i would want it to be. but it comes with half-life 
 source, counter srike source, half-life deathmach source and half-life 2 deathmach. so its 100 
 x worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turgore
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Okay i have no bad thing to say about half life 2 .Graphics are amazing , physics are at the core 
 of gameplay , characters are believable , storyline is interesting but not the best in series , 
 gameplay is first class , sound is OMG , and it has a killer attitude .U get counterstrike and 
 HL2 deathmatch which will keep you playing a long time. 
  The bad thimg is U need internet to play but even a slow connection might do the job and since 
 there will be episodic content to continue the series it will be a part of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob_Job
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay is good... the physics system is the best i have ever had to witness and oh yes the 
 super gravity gun is the bomb but the games loading times are really bad and it does cause my PC 
 to over heat sometimes even though my PC has the capabilities way beyond the games system recommendations. 
 The glitchyness is also bad but the DEV. Console really helps with that and yes allows for some 
 interesting tweaks! Im not saying its a bad game ITS REALLY AWESOME kinda short and easy and stupid 
 that it allows in game difficulty change... making a hard sit go easy... but yes the ragdoll is the 
 best and throwing people at people HA HA HA its fun... its worth 30 bucks... and garrys mod YES OMG 
 GET THAT TOO (Half-Life 2 Mod NOT A GAME) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marijuana_man2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2, one of many greatest games of all time had all the characteristics of being an excellent 
 game, and intriguing storyline, good graphics, simple; but excellent controls, and the cast of 
 characters that brings life to the universe, and then there's the gravity gun, this game allows 
 you to play with the physics engine, though there's limited puzzles in the game, they are actually 
 easy but just enough to make you use your mind... it really lived up to the hype, though I did 
 wish that the A. I. was a bit harder, and also did wanted the game to be a little longer, but all 
 in all, it's interesting and has a multiple mods for people to enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed while playing HL ,after waiting almost 6 years, was its amazing graphics. 
 They are probably some of the best I have ever seen in a game. The eviroments and physics are also 
 different than any other game with HL running on the great source engine that is also used in 
 Counter-Strike: Source and HL: Deathmatch which are included in the box of HL. The interactable 
 enviroments give the player many lethal ways to take out an enemy who are very smart and use squad 
 tactics. HL is a great continuation of the story of Half-Life 1 and lasts around 18 to 20 hours 
 which in todays standards is a long time for a FPS game. HL took 6 years to make and after pirating 
 of source code and such had lots of hype and it lived up to its name in every single way. HL leaves 
 the story on a cliffhanger for the next 3 episodes to answer the many questions in the game. Steam 
 is required along with an internet connection to play HL which may turn some gamers away from 
 it but Steam is constantly getting better. HL requires an average computer to run decently but 
 nothing crazy to play without lag. Other than needing an internet connection and some minor graphical 
 glitches HL is a ground-breaking game that is considered the best FPS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gods_mistake
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game totally redefines the first-person shooter genre. It is the most interactive game ever 
 created. Nearly everything has physics and can be manipulated by the player. This lends itself 
 to real-world types puzzles. This game even strays into RPG territory. The story is top-notch and 
 the characters are quite believable. If you are like me (a lonely male gamer/computer geek) , you 
 will likely be aroused to some small degree by Alyx Vance, a young physicist who holds her own 
 against the combine forces and civil defense. She's smokin'.
  
  This game is good in every way. The guns are cool, especially the crossbow which uses steel rebar 
 for ammunition. The vehicles are cool. You get to drive an air-boat through City 17's sewers and 
 get to drive a buggy along the coastline and splatter antlions all over your face. You get to fight 
 huge walkers in the streets of City 17 and finally you end up in the Citadel, a gigantic security 
 tower in the middle of City 17.
  
  Half-Life 2 makes you feel like part of the revolution. In fact it's basically a modern military 
 revolution simulation, which could come in very handy sooner rather than later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokussj32
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Well this game is like its just reborn from those old HL games compare to this its useless but 
 it was fun plaiyng those old HL games but now the new and improved HL2 is better than ever G. Freeman 
 is back. So the gameplay is good (because its all the same) and the graphics are really good. Everything 
 starts from the train as always you come to a new world where it is only guards guarding the City, and 
 you will soon meet Alex the daughter of the proffesor she will help you a bit, but as far as i know 
 you will be more alone than team work.
  So dont waste time buy it and play it its really a good game, wish you luck see ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misteros
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is THE best FPS game to come out in a long time.
  
  Gameplay:
  Awesome physics, sweet fire fights, lots of high quality multiplayer. This game has it all.
  
 
  Graphics:
  Simply amazing. They look nice and run smooth, couldn't be better
  
  Sound:
  Decent, but boring. Rarely are there songs, but when there are, they are pretty sweet 
 techno trance songs
  
  Value:
  HL2, HL, HL2DM, HLDM: S, CS: S, Garrys Mod (pirate ship battles, building stuff, zombie survival) 
 You could play this game your whole life and never get bored
  
  Tilt:
  Quite simply put, I love it. This is the game that you MUST buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanssj7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  HALF LIFE 2 os a brilliant first person shooter game with a good story line . This game has excellent 
 multiplayer gameplay. Its COUNTER STRIKE : CONDITION ZERO is also good with good team play online 
 as well as on LAN. It is a good time pass & a good way to improve ur shots and spotting power coz 
 this game is all about spooting ur rival as quickly as possible and eliminate him. aLSO I HAVE 
 THE CD KEY OF COUNTER STRIKE CONDITION ZERO . If anybody want it message me. So go play this game 
 if ur good at shooting .
  
  PLAY MORE.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVR_Fan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok what can I say about this game Wow, it has to be the greatest FPS shooter ever. Until HL3 arrives, 
 Crysis could even take the great FPS crown away from FPS.
  
  But until those games arrive, if you want the best FPS money can buy. Then well buy this, and it 
 has a great price. If tax was over inflated, then it would cost way more.
  
  Anyway onto the game, the Story is just totally great. The physics are the best out there, and 
 the graphics are lush.
  
  If you want to see this game at its best, then buy an HDTV and have a great PC. Because once you 
 do that and download LC level, then it is just great. In the game there is a fine range of weapons, 
 from the old trusty crow bar too the grav gun.
  
  But I remember when I first saw HL2, when I first saw it I had to build a new PC. Anyway back to 
 the game, the story leaves off from Black Mesa, and travels to City 17.
  
  A city, about to see one of the biggest fight and weapon fights ever to be seen. The best bit is, 
 your there all the way through the battle. And if you miss black mesa, then there is different 
 black mesa. Which does not look like a full black mesa, but there is also a Black Mesa mod coming 
 out soon folks.
  
  Anyway the physics, physics has changed games by a lot. And this aids the gameplay, in other words 
 taking gameplay to the next level.
  
  At the moment HL2 has the best Physics, but Crysis will take the best physics crown from HL2. 
 
  
  But the Physics plays a big part in HL2's gameplay, storyline. And great fun!
  
  Next up the evil foes, there is a good range of foes. From the old fav headcrab, which spawned 
 a loft of bread designed like a Headcrab in UK PC Gamer Magazine. And then you have some other 
 foes, like the combine and different headcrabs.
  
  Anyway next thing to talk about is the levels, they are designed really well. Even some of the 
 levels got into HL2 DM.
  
  Right I could say more about this game, but I forgot some stuff. Anyway buy this game guys, if 
 you don't buy it. Then you suck badly, unless youre under age.
  
  Then well that is a different story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droogie_1
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet. The only reason this game is fun to play is the technology. Never 
 has a game world seemed so interactive, and never have materials (cardboard, tires, barrels, etc.) 
 felt so real.
  
  Unfortunately, the actual game play is horrendous. The game design in consistent with FPS from 
 the 1995, and there's absolutely no continuity to the game world at all. Aside from the Sand Lions, 
 Valve brings NOTHING new to the genre as far as gameplay goes. The segments involving squad members 
 are painfully bad.
  
  Great technolgy, but cookie cutter game design.
  
  Technology 9.5/10
  Gameplay 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a really good game. This is the one and only game that I can say I think has the 
 best single player over all the other modes in it. (ie multiplayer) The graphics are good and with 
 the lost coast have amazed me in what the game can really do as far as looks. It is a typical fps 
 game. It is also a typical half life game but that doesnt make it bad. Being a person who likes 
 to play with mod stuff makes me happy to see the game had a mapp edditing tool. This also makes 
 it perfect for player made mods. In short this game was worth it. When 3 years from now they have 
 30 mods for it like the old half life does every one will still be playing it or reinstalling it 
 to see what the new mods are like. I expect this game to have a long life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  In 1998, Half Life sent a shock through the game industry. Combining great action and continuous 
 and immersive storytelling, Half-Life went on to win more then 50 game-of-the-year awards and was 
 even named Best PC Game Ever by PC Gamer. Ever since fans of the original heard about Half-Life 
 2 they have been hoping that it lives up quality of the first game. The good news is that it does. 
 While it is not as groundbreaking as the original, the gameplay and storytelling surpass it in 
 just about every way.
  
  The game begins some unknown years after the events of Half Life when the G-Man drops you off in 
 the European city 17. While you were gone, the combine have managed to open portals all over the 
 planet, and successfully conquer the world, and it is up to you to lead the resistance. The storyline 
 is told flawlessly through various one sided conversations (your character does not speak) with 
 NPC characters. The NPCs show genuine emotion and have superb voice acting and the facial animation 
 is nothing short of breathtaking. Many of the characters from the previous game are back such as 
 Barney and a few new characters are introduced as well. The game does a good job of genuinely making 
 you care about City 17 and its inhabitants.
  
  When you are not interacting with the games many characters, you will be engaged in fierce firefights 
 with the many different types of combine enemies. Enemies range from small head crabs to massive 
 striders. You have a wide range of weapons to use in your fight. Your standard pistols, submachine 
 guns, and shotguns appear along with some more creative weapons. The gravity gun allows you to 
 grab objects in the environment and shoot them at your foes with extreme force. From explosive 
 barrels to a table, anything and everything is a potential weapon. Another weapon worth mentioning 
 is the pheropods which allow you to summon and control vicious ant lions.
  
  You will find yourself fighting in a variety of locations. You will find yourself in places like 
 City 17, underneath a train bridge, and Ravenholm which is an abandoned mining town. Each location 
 is visually appealing and features different gameplay.
  
  The artificial intelligence in the game does its job pretty well and keeps the fighting fun and 
 interesting. Unfortunately, the AI of your occasional teammates is not as good. They have a hard 
 time hitting their targets and like to get in the way when fighting inside.
  
  The game also includes vehicles, a buggy and an airboat, which are used during some long and extremely 
 thrilling sequences. The vehicles are extremely fast and offer good control. Both eventually get 
 weapons attached to them, allowing you to dispatch foes while driving around. The vehicle sequences 
 do a great job of adding variety to the game.
  
  The game itself is beautiful to look at. The source engine does a great job powering the game. 
 The world looks believable and complex while characters and weapons look great. The only negative 
 thing one could say about the graphics is that the lack of real time dynamic lighting. Realistic 
 lighting would have gone a long way in improving the visuals.
  
  The audio in the game is nearly perfect. The voice acting is convincing and the sound effects sound 
 realistic. The ambient audio in the levels also sound great and convincing. The games music is 
 the only thing that could be improved. While its short techno riffs do kick in at appropriate times, 
 the music often lasts too long. Also, the music isnt anything spectacular, but by no means bad.
 
  
  The storyline in the game is probably its biggest disappointment. While Half Life has an interesting 
 storyline, a lot of it is easily missed when playing the game. While the basic storyline is easy 
 to follow, there are a lot of small details that can be easily overlooked. Luckily there are excellent 
 sites, like the Half Life timeline, that can help you fill in the gaps in the story. Also, if you 
 are one of those people that like questions answered, you may be disappointed by the ending of 
 the game. The game ends in such a way that you will end up with more questions then you have answers.
 
  
  But even still, Half Life 2 is an excellent and compelling game. Combined with its amazing visuals 
 and solid combat, Half Life 2 is a game no action fan should miss.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcluster
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the grandaddy of superb masterpieces of the world and I love it. The mods are inspired 
 and give the game longevity beyond the belief of you mere mortals. This including Counterstrike, 
 thumbs up go to you free lancers who put the source engine to good use. The gravity takes full 
 advantage of the amazing physics that just increases the joy of dispatching enemies to no end. 
 The graphics look impressive on relatviely low spec computers, even with only 512 mb RAM and a 
 crappy graphics card (128mb) this runs fine with bare heffing visuals. Gary's mod inspires the 
 creative juices of all who endeavour to download it's genius presenting the possibilites to create 
 the master of domino runs. The story would noy look out of place in a 19th cnetury Sci Fi novel 
 and uses many ideals from that era (The war of the worlds) . Its just a fantabulous piece of gaming 
 craftmanship!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apisonline
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Ive played this series since it was launch in 1998, drooled over its graphic back then, Half Life 
 is hailed with game of the year.. Now several years ahead again they made a new revolutionary in 
 the FPS gaming world. I can say they has beaten other all the FPS games including the famous Quake 
 and Doom (ed) , the game started from arriving at City 17 and ends at the prospect. The game difficulty 
 is quite ok. and the learning curve is about 30mins.. What really amaze me is the physic engine 
 that they use. Its awesome. Should get the new one EP1 and start blasting!! yearggh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phanmn1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  When a first-person shooter comes out and it is good, then you know a sequel is going to come. 
 That is the same thing with Half Life 2. Not knowing about first person shooters and hearing how 
 good it is from others I just had to give it a shot. Not knowing what I would get myself into. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  First starting off is the overall feel of the game. From the first moment you are on the train 
 you feel oblivious. It reminded me of the train ride at Black Mesa in the beginning of the first 
 one when you have no idea what is going on. Once you get off you just take a look around and see 
 what is going on. You find out that you are in city 17 with a bunch of prisoners and police soldiers. 
 Right off the bat the game starts you off going through a linear process that again will basically 
 be what the game really is. After exploring around trying to find somebody that will explain to 
 you where you are you finally get to meet characters that will be detrimental to the game. You 
 put on your hazard suit and then try to flee city 17. That is the only time when you have no idea 
 what is going on and what to do. 
  
  For the most part of the game it is just smooth sailing. After you get your first gun you feel 
 powerful and safe. The locations you travel through are very much different as you will do a lot 
 of shooting outside of city 17. They are in sewers on lighthouses on the beach in water but mostly 
 you will have to fight underground, mostly because you are escaping city 17 through underground. 
 Soon down the line you will get to ride vehicles but those arent as much fun because you are not 
 shooting as much and they tend to take a long time especially later in the game when you have a 
 bunch of antlions attacking you. After that there are not more rides and it is just solid shooting 
 fun. And once in a while there are some puzzle solving but it is not as hard. Most of the time 
 it is just go and switch a lever to be able to access a new area. 
  
  Your weapons that you get are typical of a first-person shooter. You get your pistol, shotgun, 
 sub-machine gun and upgrades, grenades, rocker launcher, and the Half Life crowbar. Some interesting 
 types of weapons you get you will enjoy using like the pherapod which lets you control bug like 
 antlions that attack you earlier in the game. They are very fun to use and control. Basically you 
 have unlimited amount of them so you can summon them in certain areas and when you toss them into 
 an area you have your antilions scurry in and clear the room while you sit back and enjoy. And 
 you dont have to worry about running out of anitlions because there are countless many of them. 
 Another rather new and creative weapon is the gravity gun. This thing is what you would consider 
 cool. What it does is it lets you control objects of a certain size. You can bring object from 
 a far to you without having your enemies shoot you while you run to get it or you can fire a little 
 energy spark which pushes objects away toward the enemy. It lets you do so many things with that 
 combination and adds to the fun of first person shooting. 
  
  The AI in the game is kind of good and kind of bad. You will see them sometimes use tactics on 
 you as one soldier will go out and sacrifice himself and the other will throw a grenade while you 
 are distracted. Other times there is the occasional rushing in and just getting killed by you. 
 They do know how to hide but where to hide is sometimes difficult for them. You will see them get 
 close to explosive barrels and that makes it easier for you to take them out. Still they are smart 
 enough to know that you tossed a grenade to get them to scurry out of the way. And your marine 
 friends you get near the end of the game have the same type of AI. They will find cover and help 
 you how by giving you med-kits but they dont know how to run from sniper fire. 
  
  Graphics and Sound
  All I can say is that it is better than Half Life. Artistically it is beautiful 
 and full of color. Valve really wanted to take you through a cinematic experience with their new 
 engine. They have done just that and more. Everything just looks beautiful and a lot of things 
 instead of just looking good they feel good too thanks to the gravity gun. With almost perfect 
 water rendering and lip syncing to layers and layers of background as thing reflect in the water 
 and all of the physics are going on. You just wonder how they do it. Character models look nice 
 all the way to the expression to their face and clothes. It is strange how you dont get to see 
 how Gordon Freeman looks like. 
  
  Sound is in high production quality also. The characters all have good voice acting and you really 
 grow to like them after hearing them speak. The weapons have their own unique sound as well and 
 when you have lots of guns blazing in a firefight it is nice to see everything get all hectic. 
 
  
  Story
  The story is one thing that I know Valve wanted and succeeded at improving at. Not like in the 
 first one where you are just trying to get out of Black Mesa alive and continue with life. This 
 one feels more epic and full of questions, and that is what makes a good story I think. Well, it 
 would be better if Gordon Freeman said something instead of being silent all of the time.
  
  You get a good story right from the get when you dont know what is going on and little by 
 little as you see the main characters again you get a sense of what you were assigned to do. The 
 fact that Valve added reason to get from place to place make you go and do it. You just wanted 
 to find out more of the story because it is really good. By the end you really know not that much 
 but enough to formulate what and why you were sent to city 17. Still valve wanted to make us wait 
 and I think it is their way of saying that Half Life 2 is still here for a while is good. Although 
 you dont know the history of what happened at black mesa after Gordon Freeman left with the G-Man, 
 you get a sense that you have been through a lot. Hopefully that will be explained soon. 
  
  Conclusion 
  I just cant wait to get to play Half Life 2: Episode 1. This game has a unique 
 story, compelling gameplay, and memorable cast of characters. It is fun unique and I am sure anyone 
 will enjoy it. I does have its flaws but when you count everything together it deserves to be the 
 sequel to the greatest first person shooter of all time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Halflife 2 is the best FPS game i've ever bought on any system. There I said it. 
  
  Gordon Freedman is back and it's got a whole lot better. The new source engine really pulls you 
 in and makes HL2 a real immersive experience.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is very liner, which for some strange reason is not really an issue, the 
 storyline is so good you won't care. Halflife makes you tax your brain, challenging you with puzzles 
 using real world physics or just running at the right place at the right time. 
  
  The different sections of the storyline are divided up into chapters and are vastly different from 
 Zombie infested post apocalyptic village protected by a mad priest, to a futuristic evil palace 
 with energy puzzles to match.
  
  Everything in HL2 is beautiful, from the characters to the enemies (which to be honest I never 
 got very close to) . The world has a nice dirtyness to it that makes it feel a bit more real. The 
 fact that your dealing with a totally fictional world with an interdimentional twist is irrelevant, 
 you believe your there. 
  
  Every little sound is carefully dynamically placed, you can hear the radios of your enemies as 
 they approach, stand to near an explosion and you'll loose your hearing for a little bit. Announcements 
 that sing though the cities are louder, have more echo or quieter depending on where you are in 
 relation to the speaker. Which is just plain cool.
  
  Steam (Valve's online distribution service) sends you updates and keeps your copy upto date it 
 also lets you buy HL2 for much cheaper than in the local game retailer (but I didn't say that did 
 I?) after purchace you just wait for the game to download directly to your hard drive you can even 
 start playing it before the download is finished, which is a really cool feature i must say. The 
 problem with this is that in order to play the game you must be connected to the internet; even 
 after download. which for some is a costly endeavor.
  
  Overall Values careful attention to detail, is clear: It is a good game and you should own it. 
 
  
  If you own a decent PC, then this could well be a title for your consideration. Saying that if 
 your computer is a bit old, you may not get the full experience before getting Half-Life 2 think 
 about a much needed upgrade, you'll thank me later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcangel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I won't bore you by extolling the virtues of Valve's stellar achievements with graphics and sound, 
 because it's been done many times before. Suffice it to say, the environments, for the most part, 
 feel like real places, a sense which is only enhanced by the excellent ambient and incidental sound. 
 The music, which only makes itself heard at scripted moments during the game, is appropriately 
 heart-pounding or eerie as the situation demands, but is also somewhat forgettable.
  
  Now, I'm not a huge fan of shooters, nor am I especially good at them, so my view will undoubtedly 
 differ from that of a hardcore FPS'er, but bear with me. Half-Life 2 offers some fantastic scripted 
 moments, most notably during the opening canal chase where you are being hunted down by a Combine 
 helicopter (one of the most thrilling sections of any game I've played) . Outside that, though, 
 the game boils down to solving occasional puzzles, stacking boxes to get to new areas, and lots 
 and lots and lots of shooting. Now, the shooting in itself is very good, some of the best shooting 
 action I've experienced. But it gets repetitive, and the set-pieces, varied locations and atmosphere, 
 as fantastic as they all are, weren't quite enough to keep me from getting somewhat bored in between. 
 You'd think Valve would have spent a little more time on coming up with new and exciting gameplay 
 during the however many years it's been since Half-Life.
  
  Oh, another thing - where's this story I constantly hear people raving about? Reality check - there 
 is no story - just a series of feeble NPC encounters to give the player at least some form of justification 
 for shooting all those poor Combine soldiers.
  
  The verdict? Pretty good, but not even close to being the "perfect game" that some make out. I'd 
 say "rent first", but of course you can't, thanks to Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellrazor214JH
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 has to be one of the greatest games you will ever play. First lets start with the gameplay 
 Half-life 2 has addictive and fun first person shooter gameplay plus, it adds a few puzzle in between 
 to keep you busy. There are two vechile sections both of which are very well done and polished. 
 The voice acting is awesome and the characters make you feel like your apart of this world though 
 i wish they could have made more of these moments with the different characters. There are a few 
 and very minor problems with the game, such as the squad always bunches up in corners and the AI 
 could have been alittle better. But besides these minor flaws Half-Life 2 is a great impressive 
 game that everyone even those who are not first person shooter fans should pick up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamarke
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  HL2 is the best game probably ever made just because of the level of detail the valve and the havoc 
 physics engine can accomplish. The game is so special in every way that it makes you feel like 
 you Gordan Freeman and using your crowbar to kill a head crab or use the gravity gun to throw an 
 explosive barrel at the enemy. This game feels so right when you play it.
  
  Gameplay- The game play in this game is one of the finest and funniest ever. You can pick up and 
 thing and chuck it at your enemy like a saw blade that can cut your enemys in half or a flammable 
 barrel that will set your enemy on fire and make him suffer! The other guns like the shotgun and 
 smg and pistol are all in there but there are two other very important guns at your disposal. The 
 rpg that you can control with the laser attached to it and the nail gun. The nail gun is super 
 fun because you can nail your enemys to the wall by there foot or any other place you would like 
 to throw it at. 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are astounding and will make you think that you can touch it. The only problem 
 that I had was that water affects didnt look that good. The water looked good but when you start 
 driving the air boat the water that is hitting against you boat doesnt look all that great. But 
 over all the textures look amazing and the lighting does too.
  
  Sound-The sound is also great. When you hear the bullets enter your enemy you can hear the blood 
 splattering out. The explosions and the gun sounds and the foot sounds all sound great. The music 
 is outstanding! The music always comes at the right time like when its all peaceful a nice melody 
 comes and when theres a room full of enemys the techno music comes and spices up the action that 
 is going on.
  
  Value-This game comes with counter strike source that I have already reviewed so you can check 
 that out too. If you buy HL2 from a store it comes with cs: s but if you buy it from steam your 
 are going to pay extra for it and are going to have to buy it separately. The single player mode 
 is about 20 hours and it is a perfect amount of time and some of the levels you might want to play 
 again just because they are so fun to play.
  
  Over all HL2 is a game that should not be missed and should be cherished the rest of your lives.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrusati
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  Wake up, HL2 fans, Wake up and start playing. HL2 finally hit shelves today and was unlocked through 
 steam.
  
  HL2 has you once again playing the lead role of Gordon Freeman, the game starts with you arriving 
 at city 17 by train with 2 other passangers, by the time you've step out of the train you see the 
 valves source engine at its finest, HL2 visuals are some of the most jaw dropping todate. The sound 
 effects and voice acting are also very well done, even though gordon doesn't talk himself you get 
 the feeling that the characters are talking to you.
  
  The story theres been alot of talk about, the story being dissapoints. Well its not, HL2 story 
 is as good if not better then the original, the cliff hanger at the end makes you wanna come back 
 for more and wish that valve would release HL3 sooner.
  
  There are upset tho, the ending is extremely easy, and multiplayer, yes CS: S even tho DOD: S will 
 soon be coming out valve should have atleast packed in a DM.
  
  in the end HL2 is a great game and any FPS fan or fan of the series should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adamrocks56
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I have never played half life 1, or I had never had herd of it but half life 2 is an amazing experience 
 for any gamers out there. This game is a classic. If a first person shooter game is what you are 
 looking for, look no further, Half life 2 is amazing. This game will keep you on your feet. The 
 game has a fantastic storyline, and the game play is great and graphics are good. All guns are 
 good as you have your machine gun, shotgun and now a Gravity Gun which allows you to shoot objects 
 found on the floor at enemies, and I wont spoil how good it gets at the end. So buy Half Life 
 2 if you love shooter or just plain action, it is a Instant Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone who still has yet to finish the game. Thats what happens when 
 a lot of good games come out at te same time. 
  I intend to finish it though. 
  
  I think the gameplay is very immersive and interactive. you can mess with almost everything. Pick 
 up a old shoe and throw it at a police head. They wont just stand there, they'll run after you 
 and give you a nice hit to the head. Then maybe back of with a laugh, like who do you think you're 
 messing with. Although really its more like who do you think you're messing with, bad guy. Graphics 
 for this game are by far the best in the Source engine, for any of its games. or best in the series 
 of Valve games. Science Fiction always see mto look somehat better, just because they are much 
 more artistcally inspired then real life games that are much closer related to real life. HDR made 
 this game look way better. And the sounds and music are great to immerse the player. And can't 
 forget the mutiplayer. Non stop fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkinay
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  lol kiddin this game is marvalous. as i first played the game i was firstly stunned by the graphics 
 for back then they wer not very good but this game still is a graphical master piece. this game 
 bring alot of interaction with the surrounding area (what better thing to do when bored than pick 
 up a noodle box and through it at a citizen of city 17 lol) this game has all the elements in the 
 right place carrys on from half life 1 with your trusty crow bar. the game has open enviroment 
 and you can move about freely and dont feel restricted and be expected to jump in some areas of 
 the game. The sound is not amazing but it fits nicely as it shud do in any game. over all i think 
 that this is a game worth running to the shops and getting if not already bought. if you have not 
 got this game you should be ashamed its like buying a car with out any tires. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Wow. (My jaw just hit the floor) . Let's hope to God that they release a Half-Life 3 on the 360 
 cause this game is friggin' eye candy! Although the distance rendering could use some work, this 
 game rocks in the visuals department. My PC is top notch ATI X1000 graphic cards and it still has 
 a giddy frame rate at times. Focusing on the Gameplay, that is pretty solid too. Nice use of the 
 key board and mouse is quick accurate also. But I like how you can scroll your roller on the mouse 
 to change weapon sections (like 1 and 2 etc.) . Sound is excellent. When you pick up an item and 
 you run into a wall with it, the sound actually changes depending on how hard or what angle you 
 hit the wall at! That is sweeeeet. Value: 100%. Fun experience, superior graphics, even a year 
 after it's release, and excellent game-play. It's a must own if you play PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Halflife 2 is a very good FPS game, because of the physics and the ragdoll features.
  Also the gravity gun makes HL2 a unique FPS.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Good amount of play time.
  
 +Nice levels.
  +Physics and ragdolls.
  +Gravity gun.
  +Enemies are very cool
  +Online
  +Vehicles
  No -points.
  
  Graphics:
  +The game looks absolutely amazing and 
 very real.
  +The engine runs fine too.
  
  Sounds:
  Sounds of the combine are very good!!!!
  Zombie sounds still remain from the HL1.
  Music rockZ.
 
  
  Value:
  Great, because of the online gameplay and because of the very long single player campaign.
  
 
  Variety:
  Good variety, because of the different levels and different enemies and weapons.
  Gravity gun 
 rules.
  
  Online:
  Great, but only deathmatch.
  
  HL 2 best FPS ever.
  cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  1998, half life comes out, rocks the planet. Six years later, half life 2 comes out, rocks the 
 galaxy. Gordon is back and so is perfection. For six years the world has been waiting, and now 
 it is here. 
  
  The game play is fantastic. FPS action with some cool puzzles. Weapons are sweet especially the 
 gravity gun. It enables you to pick up so many things and throw it at the "bad guy". This is so 
 much more enjoyable with the jaw dropping physics. The way you can kill an enemy is like doing 
 a math problem. If you put a grenade under a dumpster it will be knocked over a platform which 
 will fall on an enemy, or you can shoot them, or chop them in half with stuff you pick up with 
 the gravity gun. 
  
  The graphics are the best out there. Environments are beautiful and so... well big. Great effects 
 and awesome maps. The sound is another brilliant aspect and the voice acting is supurb. The guns 
 sound like what a gun should sound like. 
  If you haven't finished it, finish it. If you finish it, play it again. If you dont have it, buy 
 it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedStarStrife
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  graphics- 10/10 just great detail..... only problem is that the same character models are used OVER 
 and OVER again
  
  gameplay- awesome action that leads to many memorable fightouts
  plus it comes with CS: SOURCE best multiplayer game ever!! so another 10/10
  
  sound- down right 
 immersive, the sounds make you feel like your right there in the action fighting off aliens and 
 zombie things 10/10
  
  value- 10/10 you get cs: source and hl2 for the price of one game
  
  thats a bargian to me!!!
  
  tilt- something was just off overall though....... never felt 
 better that hf 1
  half life 2 was awesome but half life 1 felt just more polished overal then this one, so cant give 
 it a perfect
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Restless_Soul
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  In Half-Life 2 we once again take the role of the mute scientist Gordon Freeman who is awaken by 
 the mysterious G-Man who gives a long speech about sleeping on the job and simply tells him that 
 his time has come again. Gordon then awakes on a train that is entering the urban center known 
 as City 17. After the Black Mesa apparently a lot has happened since Gordon was away since the 
 world seems to have been taken over by mysterious group known as the Combine that patrol the streets 
 and harass the locals while images of the Combines human leader appears all over the city via 
 big screens and TVs. It is up to Gordon to end this madness and perhaps save humanity. The Gameplay 
 is that of any other solid first person shooter so no need to brush up on the basics of that, but 
 the true heart of this game is the graphics.
  
  One word comes to mind when it comes to the graphics of this game and that is amazing. Rather it 
 is the desolate streets and ally ways of City 17 or the beauty of the many characters of the game 
 you will not help but fall in love with the source engine that powers this game.
  
  The sounds of this game are also amazing as you progress through city 17 you will hear the echoes 
 of gunfire and the voiceovers for the game are at top notch. Much of the sound track is straight 
 from the first Half-Life, which isnt necessarily a bad thing, but a new sound track would have 
 been a nice addition to the game.
  
  Over all if you are looking for a good fix of first person action or simply looking for a game 
 with a compelling story then I highly recommend Half-Life 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnKnownViper
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  First off... this game is amazing, it will take you in emotionaly, and physicaly.
  
  The Good: Great graphics and textures, great water effects. Great story, great interactions with 
 other AI characters, every object reacts to gravity... wow... Pick up objects and make a work of 
 art. Gravity gun is just the best gun ever in a video game. Great music, great online with CS: 
 Source and HL2 Deathmatch. Great guns, great puzzles through out.
  
  The Bad: um.... maybe the only thing I can think of is that it takes a good computer to run, and 
 it hasnt been anounced on the PS3.
  
  The Ugly: Getting a toilet thrown at you while your playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srnm55
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I love this game i cant stop playing it. its so fricking awesome i just got it and i think i might 
 even beat it today. omg i love the amazing graphics and awesome physics. i love how it runs so 
 smoothly without bugs or problems like......... king kong . i cant get through some of the levels 
 because the guy falls through the ground.  . I can't wait to buy ALL of the expansion packs. lol. 
 i think im going to get my computer a tuneup just so i can turn the graphics all the way up and 
 feel like im actually in the game. Its amazing how they already have so much planned for the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Hunter44
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 will blow your socks off! Its graphics are great, its gameplay is awesome, the obstacles 
 are fun and ncie to get into, the enemies are greatly designed, the story is very good and immersive, 
 and theres plenty more to say about this but I dont want to make a full story though do I? You 
 jsut cant say anything bad about this game. There might be a part that you mightve hated, but If 
 you looked back on it youd say it wasn't so bad. The game is about Gordan Freeman (you) , and thats 
 all I can give away without giving away too much. I also recommend you play the first game or atleast 
 know the first games events and story, you'll then get this game much ebtter, as well as enjoy 
 it to its max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edward1211
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 28, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  HL2 is the best game probably ever made just because of the level of detail the valve and the havoc 
 physics engine can accomplish. The game is so special in every way that it makes you feel like 
 you Gordan Freeman and using your crowbar to kill a head crab or use the gravity gun to throw an 
 explosive barrel at the enemy. This game feels so right when you play it.
  
  Gameplay- The game play in this game is one of the finest and funniest ever. You can pick up and 
 thing and chuck it at your enemy like a saw blade that can cut your enemys in half or a flammable 
 barrel that will set your enemy on fire and make him suffer! The other guns like the shotgun and 
 smg and pistol are all in there but there are two other very important guns at your disposal. The 
 rpg that you can control with the laser attached to it and the nail gun. The nail gun is super 
 fun because you can nail your enemys to the wall by there foot or any other place you would like 
 to throw it at. 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are astounding and will make you think that you can touch it. The only problem 
 that I had was that water affects didnt look that good. The water looked good but when you start 
 driving the air boat the water that is hitting against you boat doesnt look all that great. But 
 over all the textures look amazing and the lighting does too.
  
  Sound-The sound is also great. When you hear the bullets enter your enemy you can hear the blood 
 splattering out. The explosions and the gun sounds and the foot sounds all sound great. The music 
 is outstanding! The music always comes at the right time like when its all peaceful a nice melody 
 comes and when theres a room full of enemys the techno music comes and spices up the action that 
 is going on.
  
  Value-This game comes with counter strike source that I have already reviewed so you can check 
 that out too. If you buy HL2 from a store it comes with cs: s but if you buy it from steam your 
 are going to pay extra for it and are going to have to buy it separately. The single player mode 
 is about 20 hours and it is a perfect amount of time and some of the levels you might want to play 
 again just because they are so fun to play.
  
  Over all HL2 is a game that should not be missed and should be cherished the rest of your lives.
 
  
  -Peace out War in
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  It's hard in this world to find a game that is truly perfect. Half-Life 2 is the first game that 
 I found to be a perfect artistic achievement. 
  
  The story in the game is dark and deep. The acting is superb, the dialogue natural, and the virtual 
 actors simply the best in the world. Better than the story though, is the incredible gameplay. 
 There are about a half dozen different guns and a gravity gun. This gun is one of the most unique 
 guns ever made in a game. Allowing you to kill enemies, solve puzzles and just mess around, the 
 gravity gun is a versatile weapon. The other guns are well balanced. Non feel overpowered, but 
 all pack a satisfying punch. There are several different enemies in the game, but the main combine 
 opponents are incredibly intelligent. They will take cover, throw grenades, use turrets, call for 
 help, flank you, and utilize the environment. This makes combat really enjoyable. The difficulty 
 also ramps up nicely, keeping the challenge while never being frustrating. 
  
  The graphics in the game are some of the best around. The most impressive element is the virtual 
 actors. The people look hauntingly real. Alyx is one of the greatest characters ever made in a 
 game. You actually care about her and what happens to her. Other characters are no less well done. 
 Every character from the lowest enemy to the most important allies and enemies are perfectly done. 
 Environments are a real treat. They create a mood of a totalitarian government well. Ravenholm 
 is appropriately run down. Textures are sharp, especially on higher resolutions. The game also 
 runs very well, even on a lower end computer.
  
  The music in the game is one of its best elements. Tunes change from level to level. You almost 
 never hear the same song twice. The tunes are also varied, moving from techno to operatic. Voice 
 acting is just as praiseworthy. Every character is believable and the combine enemies are truly 
 unnerving. 
  
  The game is about twenty hours long, but the inclusion of Counter-Strike adds a near indefinite 
 experience. Obviously this was a great inclusion. 
  
  Overall Half-Life 2 is one of the greatest games ever made, and comes highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomy
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 in my opinion is the best singleplayer first person ever. these are my thoughts on 
 hl2's aspects:
  
  Gameplay:
  Juat like any first person shooter you use the d, s, a, w keys for movem, ent and the space bar for 
 jumping. if you hold shift and move you will run and ctrl is for crouching. Half Life 2 dosent 
 let you stop living the game with real time cutscenes which dont make you watch and listen to them, 
 you will feel like you are actually gordon freeman, you can even ignore the characters , they will 
 react to where you are and if you bump into them they will kinda step back.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are really, really good. Everything is so detailed from everything, nothing dosent 
 look like its just a texture but evrything looks realistic. Valve have done a relly good job to 
 bring this game to life
  
  Sound:
  The sound is perfect. From the sounds people falling to combine screams of pain when you kill them 
 . The voises suite the characters very well and evrything sounds really realistic. Every litle 
 soung like a bottle faling and even a stunstick charging up is detailed to perfection.
  
  if you are a first person shooter fan or you just like a good adventure game , half life 2 is the 
 game fore you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake289
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  half-life a game that changed all first person shooters in 1998 with lots of game of the year awards 
 and a great commuity with lots of mods like populer counter-strike and day of defeat, in 2004 half-life 
 2 game out and its just has good has the origenal, once again you play has gordon freeman this time 
 his in a city called city 17 filled with these people in gas masks called combine, in the game you 
 get some good weaponary but i fort the game could have had more but the best weapon is the gravity 
 gun (it can pick things up and you can throw it) , yes the headcrabs and zombies are back but theres 
 a creepy chaper where your in a deserted town called ravenholme this is where u can test out the 
 graivty gun on zombies...
  
  is there mutiplayer, yes u get counter-strike source a remake of the origenal cs in source engine 
 for free plus half-life 2 deathmatch where u can play nomel deathmatch or play team deathmatch (combine 
 vs rebals) too bad hl 2 dm doesnt have gordon has a chareter model: ( well its still fun anyways 
 plus once again like hl 1 theres a great modding commuity theres all kinds of mods out or being 
 made to download (best and most populer out is garrys mod) so if u get bored of hl 2, dm and cs: s 
 you can download some cool mods, basicly this game has been out for 2 years now but u should really 
 get it now! also get half-life 2 episode one expantion it looks like its gonna be great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielEntwistle
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  With over 50 Gaming Awards, Half Life set the benchmark for all PC First Person Shooters (FPS) , 
 it gave life to its characters, provided some of the most memorable scenes in any video game, and 
 gave the world Counter Strike (for better or for worse) . Seven years, two expansions and a multitude 
 of modifications later, and Valve release the game's sequel, Half Life 2. With unprecidented physics, 
 impressive visuals and engrossing storyline, Half Life 2 does everything its older brother did, 
 but better. 
  
  --Overview --
  
  An undisclosed amount of time has passed since the Black Mesa incident. The world is no longer 
 in control of the human race, instead the melevolent Combine imperium dominate the planet, acting 
 incognito under the puppet human leader (and former Black Mesa administrator) Dr. Wallace Breen. 
 After a short, yet vague speech by the omnipresent G-Man, the player takes control of MIT-educated 
 turned mercenary Gordon Freeman as he arrives in City 17. From there he meets a multiude of characters, 
 both old and new, as he works through the city taking down Combine and Alien as he tries to unravel 
 the mystery behind the supression fields, kidnappings and biological experiments.
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  As with Half Life, the sequel is played through Gordon's eyes at all times. 
 While some critics are quick to point out that the lack of cutscenes do not develop the story as 
 well as it could be (or more likely as they want it to) , this reviewer believes that Valve's intention 
 was to make Gordon's and the players' experience one and the same. Intense firefights, conversations 
 with Alyx, Kleiner and other inhabitents of City 17, and scripted sequences feel like you are in 
 the game, as no cutscenes exist to break up the action. This essentially means that you have to 
 be on your toes at all time, a small game with DOG (Alyx's pet robot) quickly turns into all out 
 panic without the need for a well-choreographed out-of-body cinematic. This immersion is probably 
 best demonstrated with the 'We Don't Go To Ravenholm' chapter. 
  
  Perhaps doing what Doom III could not, Ravenholm provides the player with a constant feeling of 
 dread, in part due to the immersive gameplay the constant first person perspective provides. Whereas 
 Doom III occasionally broke the player from the out-of-your-seat scare tactics with cutscenes, 
 Half Life 2 does the same whilst keeping the the gameplay fluid - though seperated only by some 
 rather lengthy loading times if your system isn't powerful enough.
  
  The Artificial Intellegence (AI) in Half Life 2 is nothing short of stunning. The Combine use debris 
 for cover, release Manhacks for you to deal with, get to high ground and use conveniently placed 
 explosive barrels to hinder your progress. Even on the easy difficulty, Valve have given your enemies 
 enough tricks and tactics to challenge you. Similarly are the Zombies, which make a return from 
 the first game. The bog-standard versions shuffle towards you with uncompramising intent, while 
 the 'fast' incarnations use their increased agility to attack from all angles. 
  
  Valve have also done an excellent job in creating some excellent scripted sequences. For example 
 on the 'Highway 17' chapter, the player can use 'Thumpers', which pound the ground, to keep new 
 enemies - Antlions - at bay while he or she searches the environment. 
  
  These enemies of course, would be slightly more troublesome if it wasn'f for the small munitions 
 factory Gordon is able to carry in his back pocket. The weaponry in Half Life 2 is diverse enough 
 to give them all some form of use throughout the game. The crowbar takes out Headcrabs, the RPG 
 can take out Helicopters, and the Gravity Gun provides Half Life 2 with some truly memorable moments. 
 
  
  Utilising the excellent Havok engine, the Gravity Gun gives the player the opportunity to solve 
 puzzles, defeat enemies and have fun all at the same time. With the ability to manipulate the physics 
 of nigh-on anything (and eventually enemies) , the Gravity Gun opens up an area of FPS gaming that 
 hitherto had been untouched. Any moveble object now becomes a weapon - feel like embarrasing a 
 Metrocop by cracking his skull open with a toilet? Well, you can. 
  
  A new addition to the sequel is the use of vehicles. Granted, Half Life had on-rails vehicles with 
 limited controls, but the Source engine allows Gordon to take control of a buggy and a boat. Despite 
 the chapters in which these are used are very linear, Valve have done a good job in making these 
 levels fun to play and more importantly memorable. Particualrly one part which involves the boat 
 taking on an attack Helicopter that drops seemingly infinite amount of bombs.
  
  Half Life 2's gameplay, initially, doesn't seem that too far displaced from the original. However, 
 as soon as you get your mits on the Gravity Gun, you realise just how different it is. You'll never 
 want to play another game without some form of physics manipulation.
  
  --Graphics --
  
  In very much the same way as Half Life did way back when, Half Life 2 provides a lushingly beautiful 
 experience without heart-attack enducing system specs. Somehow, Valve have managed to create an 
 engine, that while gives the player some truely gorgeous scenery, doesn't force you to splash out 
 on a new graphics card. 
  
  The models in the game are realisticly bump-mapped, packed with shader details and have a high 
 polycount. But perhaps the best moments are when you talk to the NPCs. Valve developed a unique 
 program for use in the Source engine that gave its human characters some truly amazing facial expressions 
 (see: Alyx's forced confrontation with Breen) , and give the computer controller characters a much 
 needed human side - something which most FPS's struggle to achieve.
  
  The environments have obviously been lovingly crafted. City17 bears obvious architectural references 
 to Russian buildings, Nova Prospekt overshadows the atmosphere with its dark hallways and sparse 
 lighting, Ravenholm looks like its right out of an Edgar Allen Poe novel, while the inside of the 
 Citadel looks cold and meticulous yet functional and well organised at the same time. However, 
 some of the textures that paint the scenery look blurred and sometimes lo-res, and while this does 
 not necessarily take away the impressive size of some of the localles, it can occasionally draw 
 you from the immersive nature of the gameplay and remind you that you are playing a game.
  
  Effects wise, Half Life 2 is a mixed bag. The water effects are second to none, and the explosion 
 effects are excellent. But the weak effects on the fire really ruin the experience in some cases, 
 mainly because they look very 2D. Sometimes the effects also dominate the visual arena, when compared 
 to the lack of high-res textures in some places. However, with that said, the visuals in Half Life 
 2 are still stunning to look at, and some of the animation is breathtaking (despite some discrepancies 
 here and there) .
  
  --Sound --
  
  The Audio of Half Life 2 is one Half Life 2's best features. It never intrudes too much, yet it 
 is always a presence and fills a gap that I felt Half Life was missing. 
  
  Most notable for their impressions are the screams of the fast Zombie enemy. When you hear that 
 noise, you know that you're gonna have a hard time shaking them. When the Combine are killed, in 
 an impressive touch of detail, an unknown 'Operator' sends the message back to the Citadel that 
 said Comine has been killed. 
  
  The voice acting, very much like Half Life is strong and very believable. Every (main) character 
 has a distinctive voice, from the high and mighty Wallace Breen to the occasionally shy yet strong 
 charactered Alyx, Valve really pulled together a strong cast of voice actors to give the characters 
 more humanisation than the facial expressions do. The non-important characters that populate the 
 various locations of City17 have also been given impressive voice acting, only let down because 
 they all sound the same.
  
  Echoing the overall intense atmosphere of the game, Half Life 2's music is a masterpiece in FPS 
 soundtracks. From the pumping beat that accompanies firefights with the Combine, to the eerie horror 
 music that plays in Ravenholm, Half Life 2s music is a treat for the ears.
  
  Half Life 2 is very, very competent in the audio department with only a few problems. Fortunately 
 these problems are not enough to take away the overall strength it provides.
  
  --Lasting Appeal --
  
  Half Life 2 feels a lot more linear than the original, and it didn't 
 take as long to complete either, however from the eeriely calm beginning to the exciting end, its 
 one hell of a rollercoaster ride. Unlike its predecessor, there are no moments which feel like 
 they need serious overhauling (see: Xen) , and the nature of the gameplay make nearly every puzzle 
 and fight seem fresh and exciting.
  
  However, one criticism I do have is that veteran FPS players will most likely discover that the 
 'Hard' mode isn't as hard as you might think, with very little in the way of more enemies and new 
 challenges. Yet the game is such an enjoyable experience, that the difficulty really doesn't make 
 that much difference to this reviewer. 
  
  --Closing Comments --
  
  Ever since Half Life made its debut in 1996, many subsequent games have been touted as the 'New 
 Half Life'. It wasn't until now, that the title can be used to describe Half Life 2. With strong 
 visuals, simple yet masterful gameplay, amazing sound and a deep storyline, Half Life 2 impresses 
 as well as intruiges. It is perhaps the one FPS game I have played in a long time that I didn't 
 want to end, but Half Life 2's ending is such, that it must not be missed. 
  
  In recognition of the games success, Valve have developed the first in a trilogy of games, Half 
 Life 2: Episode One. Hopefully it will continue the trend set by Half Life 2 and give us gamers 
 a small teaser for Half Life 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magmar20
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Some might say this game wasn't as good as they say, well... they can take their reveiw and shove 
 it!! I'm sure lots of people would agree with me when I say that this game is great. the weapons, 
 the sounds, the enemies, and the envirornment blend together perfectly. Only problem is the stupid 
 support guys die easily. Each character has a very special personality. Even the other "extras" 
 have thier own personality. The crossbow is a very difficult weapon to master but it packs a powerful 
 punch. The monsters get stronger as you go through the game. this game is not for the weak hearted, 
 there is lots and lots of blood. this game has some funny parts and somereally scary parts. Overal, 
 its a great game, not as good as Halo because of the multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yalejock
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  After playing Quake 4, Doom 3, SiN: Emergence, Painkiller, F. E. A. R. and FarCry (which is by far 
 better than the other ones I just mentioned) I must say Half Life 2 is still in the league of its 
 own. It is hard to believe this game was released all teh way back in 2004. 
  
  The AI is fanastic and the immersive environment this game offers is stupefying. The story is enthralling, 
 the characters very likeable - I even thought of changing my name to Gordon Freeman! The weapons 
 feel ultra real and man - you gotta love the bow! 
  
  This game should be on everyone's computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattwbrad
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  I recently revisited Half-Life 2 and I am still amazed at it's perfect dynamics engine as well 
 as it ease of movement. This game really makes you feel like you are really there, and the graphics 
 are fantastic, but watch out for the creatures lurking in Ravenholm; they just might give you a 
 heart attack. The storyline is well put together, and the character A. I. is the best I have ever 
 seen. It is no wonder why they are making a sequel to this game. I loved this game and I look forward 
 to playing Half-Life 2: Episode one coming out at the end of this month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampaio_poa
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow ! That's Half life 2 ! Amazing, Amazing ! There's no words to say about this game, you can 
 buy it blinded !
  
  Just have the best gameplay of the series, and a powerfull graphics and sounds.. 
  
  You can 
 play it all day .. and not get bored....
  
  The story it's so nice too..
  
  In other words, this is the game....
  
  A Perfect AI make the game a delicious challenge, but 
 if you need more
  hardly difficulty challenge, put in the hard difficult and Enjoy ! ( Warning: I can be killed in 
 5seconds whitout see your enemy ! )
  
  And to Complete the Party, the CD comes with CounterStrike Source ! That's a great game to play 
 with your friends because have a perfect multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylestater
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  When a sad time came where newer games came in, Half-Life got out-dated ( sad but true) , and PC 
 games were getting beefy. We were all compelled to ask ourselves... Will there be a Half-Life 2? 
 
  
  Well it appears so. It has almost been a year since the release, and yet the gameplay and storyline 
 brings millions to there knees. With the legendary Source engine, Half-Life 2 can bring open achievements 
 to other game developers or more likely modders. 
  
  I remember watching the video clip where the scientist/action hero Gordon Freeman who is being 
 chased down by the infamous Combine for the first time, and was using the gravity gun to hold them 
 off. Not only was I amazed by the graphics but also was shocked to see amazing physics in real 
 time. 
  
  Half-Life 2 also brought Counter-Strike: Source to the table. A new revamped version of CS 1.6. 
 Not only that but Day of Defeat has been remade on the Source engine, earning the title Day of 
 Defeat: Source.
  
  If you have not yet purchased this game. I recommend you do so... Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loic54
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  OK, I'm exaggerating a little, but bear with me. I wasn't expecting Half-Life 2 to be the "be all 
 and end all" of videogames. I wasn't expecting it to be the greatest gaming experience ever known 
 to man (although various crappy reviews will tell you it is) . I didn't even expect it to be the 
 best First Person Shooter ever. What I DID expect, was for it to be at least as good if not better 
 than Half-Life 1 (coincidentally, one of my favorite games) .
  
  What we have instead, is indeed a fantastic game, rather it would be a fantastic game if not for 
 all the pointless bull**** that's lumbered with it.
  
  Let's start with the good (and admittadly, there is a lot with is good about HL2) . First up, the 
 graphics. Technically, it is definitly the best looking game ever made. Bump mapping, real time 
 lighting, self-shadowing, all that crap you expect from "The Best Game Ever TM" is in there, and 
 it looks great for it. whatsmore, the character models are fantastic, particularly the facial animations 
 (get your mind out of the gutter, please) . Textures are also impecable. Deatailed, realistic and 
 gritty. I'd go as far as saying that HL2 is the most realistic looking game ever. That, sadly, 
 it's also it's only visual downfall. There isn't very much "artistic" about HL2's visuals (other 
 than the odd alien design) , mostly it's just all hyper-realism, which is all well and good, but 
 doesn't so much appeal to the arty farty crowd (like me) . Speech and sound effects are also as 
 good as you'd expect, as is the combat itself. when you're actually getting to play the ****ing 
 thing that is.
  
  Which brings us neatly onto the point of this rant: "Why Half-Life 2 is a Steaming Pile of Overrated 
 Bull****." You seriously cannot play for 10 minutes without the screen suddenly freezing and LOADING 
 appearing right in the middle. This has even happened to me during combat before. Distracting, 
 to say the least. Whatsmore, these aren't short loading times. not by any stretch of the imagination. 
 Mostly, they are at least 30 seconds, sometimes over a minute. This is pretty poor considering 
 it probably already happened less than 10 minutes ago. Haven't these idiots ever heard of streaming? 
 If Rockstar can stream an entire game off a primitive x1 speed DVD drive for GTA: SA, why can't 
 Valve get HL2 to stream OFF A ****NG HARD DISC? I dunno, it's only like 50 times faster or something. 
 Retards.
  
  I'll go back to loading issue later, for now, let's talk about how Valve (the HL2 developers) are 
 a bunch of paranoid arsefaces. They've creatd this thing called "Steam", which they tout as some 
 amazing Online Gaming Hub of amazing amazingness. In reality, it's merely a system finely developed 
 to piss you off.
  
  Playing HL2 requires you to register your copy on Steam. Registering your copy on Steam requires 
 an internet connection. Before doing so, you have to download sometimes large Steam updates, so 
 a Broadband connection is preferred. Now, HL2 doesn't have a multiplayer mode, yet they still require 
 you to be Online to play it (that's right, unless you bother doing yet more annoying bull****, 
 everytime you play HL2, you have to log onto Steam. For a one player game. With no online functions. 
 Stupid, I know.
  
  I'll admit, videogame piracy is a problem, but Valve have taken things just a touh too far. Actually, 
 **** a "touch too far". They're totally out of the ballpark into crazy mad mentalist land.
  
  Back to gameplay, HL2 requires you at various points to drive vehicles. Yes, vehicles, and 
 these ****ing things don't handle like Halo's Warthogs, that's for sure. Instead, they handle like 
 a shopping trolley. I won't say anymore about this, otherwise the deluded fanboys won't ****ing 
 shut up about the "realistic car physics" for the next hundred years or so.
  
  Ah yes, the "Physics". The much touted trump card of HL2. So... what's so great about it? To be 
 honest, I'll be ****ed if I know. It's just the same old Havok engine that various things have 
 been using for the past few years. To me, throwing a box in HL2 doesn't seem any different than 
 it did last year in Deus Ex: Invisible War, and also has Invisible War's amazing slidey furniture. 
 I dunno about you guys, but if I'm walking around my lounge, and I happen to walk into my armchair, 
 it doesn't generally go scooting across the floor at high speed.
  
  Perhaps the most noticable thing about HL2 is the lack of a multiplayer mode (despite having to 
 play it online, as covered earlier) . Instead of a multiplayer mode, HL2 comes bundled with "Counter 
 Strike Source", which is basically just Counter Strike with added **** havok physics. Oh, joy. 
 I'm sure Counter Strike fans will love it though. At least now they have an excuse for clinging 
 to their precious, crappy Counter Strike after 5 years of sucking at every other game that's come 
 out since.
  
  Now though, the most important issue from my own personal perspective. That of performance. Generally, 
 HL2 runs really well on a variety of low to high end systems, but there is one scourge on this 
 god running. THE DREADED HALF LIFE 2 STUTTER BUG!
  
  Every now and again (more like every time you turn a corner) , the game's framerate will drop like 
 a ton of bricks and the sound will stutter wildy for a second or so. Considering my system specs 
 (Athlon 2600, 1gig RAM, Radeon X800XT) , this is total bull****. I can run Doom3 at 1280x1024 at 
 max settings without a hint of stutter, but no matter what you do with HL2, it's going to happen. 
 It's going to happen in the same places everytime too.
  
  Valve have officially recognised this bug now, and have chalked it down to textures not being properly 
 loaded. Yeah, not properly loaded after 3 minutes or something. What the **** WAS it loading for 
 all that time then?
  
  On the 22nd of November, they announced that a "small number of HL2 players (5% to be exact) , we 
 encountering occasional stutter. 5% eh? Then how come most online polls show it to be over 90%? 
 Obviously, they're all lying. Those damn lying game players! Always looking for sympathy!
  
  After dropping this bombshell, Valve then announced that a patch would be realeased tommorow 
 (23rd) to fix this issue. Now, if it really WAS only 5% of players who had this issue, I kinda 
 doubt they'd have jumped on getting a patch out so quickly, don't you? Regardless, the 23rd came 
 and went, and Valve gave another statement saying that the patch would be Tommorow.
  
  Then tommorow came and they said Tommorow again. Tommorow must be a favorite word at Valve's offices. 
 Maybe tommorow they can release a game they'd actually bothered to test properly.
  
  Of course, there's lots of **** fanboys on forums giving it all "oh stop complaining, they've graced 
 us with the finest game ever and you just complain! blah blah! i hope they don't release it now 
 just to spite you! valve are gods! blah blah!"
  
  I'm sorry, but if I pay 45 for a game, and run it on my 300 Graphics Card, I expected to you 
 know, work and ****. Maybe wanting stuff you buy to work is too much to ask these days. who knows?
 
  
  Anyway, that about rounds things up. Still waiting for this crappy patch after 3 tommorows (and 
 I suspect there'll be more) , and I'm still suffering the game's god awful music. So, in conclusion, 
 does HL2 really suck? No, it doesn't. It's actually a fun game to play, when you're actually playing 
 it, as opposed to staring at the word "LOADING" 40% of the time...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  I've already managed to say more than I wanted to. It really is hard to stop talking about a game 
 that is so good. It's hard not to share your excitement about something that should end up being 
 unanimously enjoyed. 
  
  Like I said before, it doesn't do a whole lot differently than other games in the shooter genre 
 in terms of pure gameplay innovation, but it takes existing styles, then mixes, matches and makes 
 them better. It sets the standard in all areas, especially the use of physics as a gameplay tool 
 instead of merely a visual treat for gamers. 
  
  If you're a fan of Half-Life, action games in general, or are looking for a way to get into PC 
 gaming, this is it. It'll hook you, reel you in, and hold you captive for serious hours of hardcore 
 brilliance. This is gaming at its best and shows that the future holds no bounds when the might 
 of technology, precision of design, and touch of artistry work in tandem.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  perhaps even before it came out, you've already seen the signs. a brazen source code theft, a hacker 
 crackdown, FBI arrests and a bitter corporate quarrel. even if you weren't reading all the gaming 
 news, you've been losing sleep with the gnawing thought of needing to do something about your not-so-old 
 mid-spec PC. all of this because of one game alone: half life 2. 2004 was a year of spectacular 
 sequels for games in their respective formats. there was halo 2 (xbox) , metroid prime 2 (gc) , and 
 gta san andreas (ps2) . each of them has garnered spectacular praise from the gaming press. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Pro-Link-
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 19, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay is phenomenal you can interact with everything. The way you can interact 
 with the people in the game is very nice. The one thing that was disappointing was that you couldn't 
 kill the good guys like you could in the first Half-Life. There is a character named Dog, and he 
 was built to protect Alyx, and he interacts a lot also you can't play as him, but he helps you 
 and if you need help with some obstacles, he will always come over to help you.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are awesome. Sometimes you forget that you are playing a game. You actually 
 get attached to the characters of the game, and you feel like you really know them. In one level 
 "We Don't Go to Ravenholm" there is a pair of legs hanging from the tree, and you when you see 
 them you feel like something bad happened here, and you are freaking out and peaking around every 
 corner before you go around it. Everything has extensive detail, especially the blood it looks 
 very life-like.
  
  Sound - There isn't much to say about the sound, except that it is very good. When you fire a weapon 
 you can hear it echo according to the environment you are in. When someone is talking to you and 
 you turn around it sounds like it is actually coming behind you. You feel like people are actually 
 talking to you and not the character in the game.
  
  Interactivity  In this game there is pretty much nothing you cant interact with. Every time you 
 shoot something there is going to be a bullet hole in it. You can pick pretty much everything up 
 including garbage, cans, boards, and anything else you can think of. You can break pretty much 
 anything that comes in your way. Whether it be a board, or even a person for that matter :P.
  
  Overall - This is my all-time favorite game. If I were you I would get the Game of the Year 
 Edition, which comes with Half-Life 2, Half-Life: Source, Counter-Strike: Source, and Half-Life 
 2 Deathmatch. You can find it at a local store for around $ 40 - $50. Overall I give it a 9.9/10. 
 I would like to make this game more well known because not a ton of people have heard of it, I 
 think that this game would be on everybody's favorite list, if people were more inclined to buy 
 it then say it is just another game on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi10
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  good:
  half life 2 para mi es uno de los mejores juego k e jugado es muy muy bueno.... no se lo recomiendo 
 a las personas k sufren del corazon pork asusta mucho.... y es muy intenso...... este juego es 
 perfecto muy buena historia muy buena grafica todo esta bien echo.... el mejor de la serie.... y 
 eso k nunca llegue a jugar la parte 1....... XD espero la expansion ojala sea tan buena como esta 
 ..... todos deberian probarlo..... creo k deberian darle el premio al juego del ao onk ya es un 
 poco viejo... jeje (2004) ....
  
  bueh les cuento algo de la historia.... tienes k salvar el mundo matando y matando estraterestres 
 y cosas asiiii nose .... son un raza inteligente con armas y elicopteros..... al final los humanos 
 se unen contra ellos y es muy emocionante se imaginan k pase algo asi?? bueh!!! cada quien aaaa 
 JULLIRR
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archvile700
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  this is by no shadow of doubt the best FPS i have ever played. the graphics are awesome, sound 
 is great. story is insanely creative. you can always come back to this game. im not a huge techno 
 muisic fan, but the soundtrack for this game is incredible. its perfect for the game. absolutely 
 amazing. the only complaints that i have is that the game is not that hard. i mean no one wants 
 a game thats impossible, but the game is really not even that difficult on the hard setting. but 
 thats not enough to make me not like this game. also characters are all great, especially the g-man. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAntiTriple6
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 11, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  OVERVIEW : awesome gameplay, load times and hiccups hinder gameplay greatly, sound and graphics 
 are perfect, value average - beat once and never play again USUALLY
  
  You play as Gordon Freeman, a man that returns to set right the horrible mistakes he made from 
 his last adventure. This game is really fun! Only a few things hinder the gameplay in my opinion 
 pretty bad. There's a good story here and alot of gunplay and fun driving levels... this game never 
 gets boring. The characters are really fleshed out and you feel connected to all of them throughout 
 the game.
  GAMEPLAY IS PRETTY GOOD. Everything is awesome. From vehicle control to using every type of gun 
 you start to appreciate how much work the company did on this game. You'll never get bored because 
 there are so many little different things that you do. And shooting the laser guided rocket launcher 
 is pure fun. The only problem that I had (which is a huge problem) is the load times. Every 10 
 minutes or so of gameplay is followed by an super long load time that you have to sit through. 
 These get VERY tedious and you feel like you have enough time to walk around the house and do a 
 chore. Not only that, after the load time finishes and you resume play there are major hiccups 
 for at least a minute or two after words that ceases all gameplay whatsoever. These load times 
 seem to break up the gameplay greatly for me. Everything else is fine.
  THE GRAPHICS ARE PERFECT. The sheer amount of detail is AMAZING in this game. The company really 
 worked hard and long for this game's graphics and it really shows. You'll see every little detail 
 in pretty much everything you see. It's just absolutely jaw-dropping watching the water in the 
 tube affect how you see through it. No flaws here.
  THE SOUND IS EQUALLY PERFECT. No flaws whatsoever. All the guns have a huge kick and punch that 
 is perfect and sounds awesome. The chatter from your enemy soldiers and monster screams are just 
 as great. LISTENING TO THE DESPERATE SCREAMS OF ZOMBIES AS YOU CATCH THEM ON FIRE IS THE MOST TERRIFYING 
 EXPERIENCE I HAVE EVER HAD IN GAMING. The voice acting is very well done and you honestly feel 
 like the characters in the story are real people with real emotions because how they deliver their 
 lines and their detailed facial expressions. 
  THE VALUE IS AVERAGE. Unless you like all the mods which I don't participate in. The game is something 
 you beat once and then hardly ever touch again. I have tried playing through it a few times but 
 I eventually have the ol' "been there done that" feeling as I play through it again. The game is 
 a good 20 hours or so so it takes a while to beat it. And the finger-sweating moments in the game 
 will sometimes have you coming back to relive the great action sequences.
  ALL IN ALL, this game is a must have for all PC gamers. It's the best shooter on the PC and it's 
 an extremely fun game while it lasts. You'll play it for hours on end. All the environments are 
 unique and the gameplay is fun except for the load times and hiccups. Buy the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frother
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a titan of gaming. When you see something unusual in
  the game, you don't say "that's ususal," you say "I can see that
  becoming the standard." This 
 game is simply an epic, a giant.
  
  Graphics:
  The visuals in this game are top-notch. Most of the models and
  textures are completely photorealistic 
 on the highest graphic
  settings, and I have no doubt the Source engine will be considered par
  for graphics for years. 
 Water is rendered perfectly, and dirty water
  and muddy water and oily water and dark water and clear water and
  ocean water all look distict 
 and very convincing. Faces are perfect as
  well, with a new lip-synching system that converts phonetic text to
  their equivalent facial 
 movements very accurately. Also clothes are
  fully modeled instead of just being textures. I can't emphasize this
  enough: these graphics 
 are the most realistic of ANY computer game out
  there (as of May 2006) .
  
  System:
  HL2 also functions as a tier of computer power; if your computer can
  run Half-Life 2 it's great, 
 and if it can run Far Cry it's godly. But
  there are dozens of games that tax your system more than Half-Life 2
  and have worse graphics.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Half-Life 2 is done brilliantly. The game is more like
  a movie than a game in that it has just enough difficulty to make it
  engaging and scary while 
 making sure you rarely die. It operates on
  the philosophy that gamers like to forge ahead and see new areas and
  conflicts and don't like 
 to die. The enemies pose little threat, but
  take a lot of skill to kill. If you don't even try, though, you'll
  die; it isn't a cakewalk. 
 Most shooters, like Call of Duty, tell you
  to get to the checkpoint in the middle of the city and conveniently
  make only one linear path 
 for you to follow. They put glaringly
  obvious obstacles to herd you around the level, like roadblocks or
  collapsed tunnels or mysteriously 
 locked doors that you can't breach.
  Games like Halo and Metroid Prime can get away with their linearity
  because of the story and 
 level structure; for example, it simply makes
  no sense for the Chozo to build more than one path between major rooms
  in Metroid Prime. This 
 doesn't work for city and outdoor games though.
  Half-Life 2 takes a different approach. In the spirit of a movie, the
  game is completely linear 
 (though the combat certainly isn't) . But
  instead of saying "get to point X and ignore the fact that the level
  seems to have just one 
 winding street" it says "just go, and if you
  find that there's only one path, just be thankful there's a path at
  all." It works surprisingly 
 well and the game flows around this
  concept. The Ravenholm level is city based, and the point is more to
  get out of the city any 
 way you can than get to a specific area. And
  when you try different things to work your way through the city, you
  get the impression that 
 many different things could have worked to get
  you moving in any of a dozen different directions, although in reality
  there's only one path. 
 At every turn, Valve introduces a brilliant
  element to make the experience seamless and cinematic, and above all
  to make it seem more nonlinear 
 than it is. All the usual things like
  weapons and sound and physics (which are award-winning by the way) are
  flawless, but that's 
 standard in popular modern games. Overall, it's
  not much of a game, but it's thouroughly immersive and enjoyable, and
  a lot more fun than most 
 other games, despite is movielike feel. It's
  got sad elements and brutally violent elements and high energy combat
  elements and stirring 
 moments and terrifying moments and confusing
  moments, all blended together in an amazing experience. I love this
  game, it's just perfect.
 
  
  Story:
  The game really just tells the story of Gordon Freeman, and you only
  see and hear what he sees and hears. You see a lot of the game's world
  and you really get a 
 good idea of what's going on, but there's very
  very little storytelling. Most of it is visual as you go through the
  levels. For example, you 
 move through apartments in City 17 when the
  working population is coming off shift. The city is hopelessly
  run-down and filthy. Living conditions 
 are appalling; two couples
  share a 2 room apartment and put a dresser in the doorway to divide
  the rooms, most apartments 
 are unadorned except for a single bare
  mattress (though one has a TV) , wallpaper is peeling, most of the
  women are crying, the men 
 stare blankly at the wall with sunken eyes
  and horrifyingly sad faces. Civil Protection terrorizes the population
  with random killings 
 and violent purges. Nowhere do you see children
  (the playground is rusty and falling apart) ; early in the game you
  hear a brief statement in 
 the background made by Dr. Breen about
  humans being sterilized; this serves to explain the lack of children.
  The story is explained 
 in this manner, though there's a little
  conventional storytelling while you're with your allies. Overall I
  think Valve builds a very 
 compelling, fascinating world (mostly though
  eerie level design and sound actually) .
  
  Value is EXCELLENT due to counter-strike source coming free with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  After about a year being away from playing this genre of games, after DOOM III that in some points 
 was similar, I started to play half-life 2 with this idea that Im not going to finish this game, 
 its just something like others, but actually it wasnt!
  It gave me the joy of playing! Something that I havent felt it so deep like this for a long time. 
 Apart from the introduction which is a little bit long and boring, when the real game starts you 
 cant stop playing it!. The graphic is very good and it supports by the strong 3D engine which 
 helps game to run faster.
  The levels are interesting, variety of weapon with the different situations, some levels are a 
 bit complex not as much a make you to feel .. oh .. gosh! .. I wanna play a game not to solve an 
 arithmetic question!  they are just right, needs to be a little bit clever to enjoy your thinking.
 
  Indubitable half-life 2 is one of the best First-Person Shooter games, if you havent tried it 
 yet, its the time to play! Hurry up! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chokedoke
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  I recently played this game again with my new gaming rig and let me tell you it still blows me 
 out of the water even now. The graphics seem even better as does the ai. I would have to say that 
 although f. e. a. r is a more intensive game i think hl2 stills holds it own against it.
  
  Now the gameplay is smooth and responsive it is very hard to get stuck anywhere and with the physics 
 engine there is always something to do even if it is just painting a wall or build one.
  
  The ai is supreme on the higher settings you can find your self getting boxed in by the ai and 
 even herded to where they want you to go which is great to watch.
  
  At certain points of the game there are allies you get to control. These are very well done but 
 sometimes you notice there blind dedication to follow you even if that means running into a hole 
 or a load of enemies. They also have a problem with ducking when low on health and looking for 
 a medic. And finally they do sometimes get lost or blocked by the scenery. But if you manage them 
 well they can turn an impossible situation into a trifling encounter.
  
  Finally i just have to say that this is an excellent game that i love playing the storyline is 
 good although not very detailed but the thought of the g-man helps you keep going (especially because 
 you catch glimpses if him leading you through the game) All in all very good although still lots 
 of unaswered questions lets just hope episode 1 gives a deeper storyline and also some more answers.
 
  
  The multiplayer is also worth a mention as counter stike comes back better than ever and the hl-deathmatch 
 with the physics and gravity gun is amazing and adds alot of tactical flexibilty into the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Steady
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  When Half Life first came out, it revolutionized the gaming industries with its graphics, game-play 
 and story line. Then Half Life 2 came out which once again revolutionized the gaming industries. 
 From the moment you start playing this game you can tell that 100% effect went into the engine, 
 graphics and story line. I was total immersed in HL2 for days on end interacting with the AI and 
 killing the enemy.
  
  The graphics are perfect and realistic with lighting effects that I havent seen anywhere else. 
 Game-play will immerse you in such a way that 3 hours have gone and you havent even realised it. 
 The arsenal in HL2 was fantastic and fun (Especially when picking up an object and throwing at 
 the enemy) .
  
  Another part of HL2 which was great was the other games valve included (Online games) . HL2 Deathmatch, 
 Day of Defeat & Counter Strike: Source. I play CS: Sourse nearly every day which has never got boring 
 for me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc_jjaayy
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  i dont know what to say.... this is just.... hard to describe... its very rare a game comes like 
 this. i have to say this is one of the best games ever made in the history of games. i am amazed. 
 this game uses the latest technology, source engine 7 and havoc physics engine! this game is simply 
 showing every other game in the world what games really shoud be!
  ive seen other games like this, but its pretty rare.
  
  i dont know what to say.... this is 
 just.... hard to describe... its very rare a game comes like this. i have to say this is one of 
 the best games ever made in the history of games. i am amazed. this game uses the latest technology, 
 source engine 7 and havoc physics engine! this game is simply showing every other game in the world 
 what games really shoud be!
  ive seen other games like this, but its pretty rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fguzmant
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Its a very beautiful game, very stable and has no glitches, I really think that is the best shooter 
 ever made. The effects of water and picking up objects are revolutionary and has no match. If you 
 have an Nvidia geforce 6800 with 256Mb you can put the maximum resolution and effects, you'll be 
 amazed with the graphics, 3D objects are totally convincing and the textures are very good too, 
 you have 2 chapters in vehicles which are better than te majority of racing games. Characters are 
 amazing, you can see all the expressions in their faces which by the way are very well designed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  I really love this game. Of all the FPS out in the market this one stands head and shoulders above 
 all the others. Why, because it creates a realistic world, with a wonderful story and memoarble 
 solid characters. The Game play is long, up to 25 hrs of gaming pleasure. Which is great since 
 many new FPS are over within 10 hrs. Though the AI enemy is not the difficult to beat on the hard 
 level. They do have some realistic movments, and use some basic squad tatics. making this a bit 
 hairy when you have a dozen of them on your tail. Granted this game is steping stone in the Half 
 Life series. The ending has no resoulution, leaving the story open to new chapters in Gordons advetures. 
 I am not going to bother retelling the story or try to explain what happens. I will state what 
 I liked and disliked in the game.
  
  1. Excellent graphics. I believe this is the best renduring of humans, in any game. The people 
 in this game have an ablity to show realistic facial expression and certain emotions through there 
 mannerism and face. Their body movements are more natual, and fluid than most games. They even 
 have a glimer in there eyes, that changes depending on the lighting. The world itself is also very 
 well done, building, water, vechicles, secenry and the sky all have a realistic look to them. Though 
 the vegitation is not as well rendered as in Fry Cry, nor do you have the 1.2Km draw as you do 
 in that game. The lighting is also quite good, with detailed shadows, and natural lighting though 
 I believe FEAR might beat it in this dept. Overall the graphics in this game are outstanding, though 
 certain games might be better in one aspect over HL2.
  
  Sound:
  I beleive the sound is excellent in this game. All the sound effects sound realistic. Voice acting 
 is top notch, with some good actors doing the voices of the main characters. The the music is sparse 
 in this game, and for good reason so not to overpower the sound effects. Music is good in creating 
 a certain mood or build tension when needed.
  
  Story:
  Well the story itself is well rounded. It has a intrguing plot that carries you through the game. 
 HL2 has some of the best most memorable characters in any game that I have played. A few return 
 from the first game, there are also several new characters that are introduced in this game. There 
 is enought suspense, in the game to keep things interesting. Granted nothing is resolved at the 
 end, it does create a good spring board to the next game in the series.
  
  in ending this is the best FPS yet to be created. Overall It has the best graphics, sound and game 
 play of any game out today, Yes, some newer games might have better sound, vegitation or lighting 
 but HL2 beats them in overall.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a highly anticipated shooter which is a sequel to the original Half - Life.
  This game won the game of the year title and it doesnt dissappoint at all.
  
  STORY - Half 
 Life 2 picks up from where the original left off. The player once again assumes the role of Gordon 
 Freeman and starts off in a city (CITY 17)
  Whole City is captured by the Combines with only a handful of Humans left.
  The Story revolves 
 around Gordon and Alyx vance who are determined to find out the truth behind these strange activities 
 of Dr. Breen. There is another person known as the G-Man, but his identity still remains undisclosed. Half 
 - Life 2 has a great story and every aspect is made believable.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Half - Life 2 is different from all other FPS's in terms of gameplay. Players encounter 
 humans as well as alien life in a series of levels spanning throughout the game. You have many weapons 
 to use from each having different damage and effects.
  A new weapon called theGravity Gun" is the plus point of the game. It gives you a chance to lift 
 any objects and blast them on your enemies. This weapon really has its advantages. in the later levels 
 you can even grab Humans with the help of Gravity Gun.
  If You still find surviving difficult then you need not worry cause you have what is known as "Pheropods". This 
 thing makes some Antlions as your allies thus helping you to finish off the enemies.
  There are also physics - based puzzles which you need solve in order to advance.
  This game loses 
 ground on the basis of somewhat lackluster A. I of the Combines. They just dont know how to kill 
 you. This makes the game more easier for you.
  
  GRAPHICS - Graphics of Half - Life 2 are simply stunning. Everything is presented wonderfully. The 
 Animation of the Gravity Gun makes the game a masterpiece. Every chunk of wood has its textures. The 
 water effects are the best you'll ever see. Simply speaking the game has one of the Best Graphics 
 in any game.
  
  SOUND - Sound is good enough. Its not mind blowing though. Soundtrack is cool and voice acting is 
 decently done.
  
  Why Should I Like Half - Life 2 -- Breathtaking Visuals (Runs smoothly even on a low-end PC) , Gravity 
 Gun , Its Half - Life.
  
  Why Should I Like Half - Life 2 Less -- Lackluster A. I , Long loading times , Confusing Story (Not 
 Explained properly) .
  
  However this game itself is a masterpiece and proves why it has won thegame Of The YearTitle. 
 
  A definate buy for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was just what you'd want from it, it had gorgeous graphics, and excellent gameplay, 
 but only a couple characters from the first. The biggest one to come back, is of course, G-Man. 
 In the beginning you are on a tram, after you agree to work for G-Man, if you finished Half Life 
 1, and you are on your way to a prison-like camp, where you soon rendevous with a few people from 
 Half Life 1, you probably already know who. The rest of the game ends up unraveling itself, but 
 you also sometimes get a feeling of incompleteness, knowing that all the Black Mesa workers, scientists, 
 and security guards from HL 1 are all still trapped or dead in the place, kind of makes you want 
 to go back for their help. Also the marines, from HL1 you eventually star wanting to fight them, 
 since the combine all seem like big fat meanies.
  
  The graphics are unbelievable, they seem like real life, emersing you in the fight, I can't even 
 imagine what it would be like with surround sound speakers :) . The game had excellent lighting, 
 which at times could make an actually scary experience, in some parts. The reflections and everything 
 were great, and you could see the emotions of your men.
  
  The sound was superb, generating the feeling of being in a huge firefight, giving you the whole 
 spec-ops feeling, and making you shiver with fear, especially when you're walking in the dark terrain, 
 when you hear something walking, maybe knocking over a barrel or box. Also the horrifying screech 
 of the little flying thing, covered in razors that rams into you and rips you apart, the screeching 
 sound of metal getting louder, and you not know which direction it's coming from eventually makes 
 yoy go berserk and star shooting randomly to take it out, but there's never only 1.
  
  The only problem with the game, isn't really the game, as soon as you install your game you MUST 
 register your product, someone stole my CD KEY, I HATE YOU!!!!... But at least I was able to finish 
 the game. The other free games with it, the Half Life 2 deathmatch isn't too great, though it is 
 fun, just like Day of Defeat Source, only in the Half Life 2 era. Counter Strike Source is excellent, 
 sure only Counter Strike with better graphics, but still excellent, I', just gonna buy ordinary 
 CS now, rather than CS: S.
  
  Overall I think it is a great, excellent game, definitely worth the money and you will always want 
 to play it, and the CS: S is also fun, though CS ordinary is better in most ways, such as the surf 
 maps, totally fun, but not on CS: S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamester123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is one of the greatest games that I have played in a long time. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone who enjoys playing FPS games. The game play is phenomenal and the graphics are incredible 
 and very up to date with current PC standards. The A. I stupid at some points but still very well 
 done, and is a great addition to the game play. The Source engine is also a very good engine for 
 this particular game. The use of physics as puzzles is great fun and may be challenging at times. 
 Ravenholm has quite a scary atmosphere and keeps you on the edge of your seat. Over all I would 
 recommend this game to anyone who enjoys playing classic FPS games and to have fun in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Man, I don't know about you but I got the creeps playing this game. It's a darn grim vision of 
 the future, what with all the jumpsuits and policeman. One of the first parts is when you're fleeing 
 in wimp-terror from the policeman, and it's just so.... cinematic? I'm not sure how to describe 
 it, but it definitely gets the old adrenaline pumpin'.
  The combat givves you a feeling of extreme realism. Granted, it's hard to see how Gordon, cool 
 as he is, could carry around all those gadgets and still run as fast as he does, but I digress. 
 If you don't like digressions, get out of this review right now. Anyway, the combat is just so 
 fun, dodging around through debris with your gun, fighting the forces of evil (Cue Superman Music) .
 
  Finally, let me say something about the story line. I'm not actually going to say anything about 
 the story line, you understand, because I wouldn't want to ruin it for you. But you really get 
 attached to the Artificial Intelligence, reminiscent of KOTOR I. 
  The Multiplayer is possibly the best aspect of this game. I spent a lot of time doing this, and 
 man, there are some hard core players on there. I got my rear kicked all around the maps the first 
 few times, but eventually I got the hang of it. The multiplayer is.... amazing.... to say the least.
 
  If you like dream sequences, and if you like first person shooters, and above all if you have 
 dream sequences about first person shooters, buy this game. In fact, buy it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoboBob133
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 has tons of new features Valve really went all out in this action packed sequel to 
 a game of the year, Half Life. In it you will see some characters you might remember from previous 
 titles. It gives a beautifully rendered game with a complete overhaul in detail. It really gives 
 you the feeling that your in City 17. Graphics aren't the only thing this game gives, thats right 
 there are tons of weapons ranging from the standard FPS weapon; Shotgun, Pistol, Machine gun. To 
 one of the games greatest weapon the "Gravity Gun" which allows you to manipulate the environment 
 around, lifting up things from cans to saw blades to your enemies in later parts of the game. But 
 with all these new renditions of the game we've come to love there is a down the weapons are great 
 the graphics are simply amazing! But you do need a pretty fast processor and a good graphics card 
 to play game well. But with this short coming the game is still pretty sweet, It gives you amazing 
 graphics loads of weapons and a ton of enemies to use them on. Half Life 2 is a definite if you 
 like fast pasted first person shooters with a very solid story line, Half Life 2 is an instant 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  HL2 is a great game and has improved graphics but i miss the old aliens and if they were to put 
 the old aliens in the game, well in newer form and with the graphics the HL2 is using, it would be 
 great and i like the headcrabs and the barnacale in their new forms but where is the bull squid 
 ,hound eye or dog ,alien slave, alien grunt, gargantua or in short form garg and alien contrloller. Anyway 
 the game dosent really have lots of enemy but its good to see some of our allies in new form like 
 barney, our old friend whose a security guard aids us in battle and opening doors and our nerdish 
 spectacled friend whose bold and he was also the voice for all the scientist in HL and also our 
 negro friend whos was also a scientist in HL and now has a daughter, Alynx, who will be Gordons side 
 kick
  
  Now the weapon arent really good i mean there is really much punch to it but the pistol has improved 
 its fire power and its form oh and also the crossbow its good and its also become a sniper dream 
 of the crossbow and yeah it would be nothing like half life without the crowbar its improved it 
 fireing power i mean in just a hit or two or maybe three could kill the socks of those civil protectors 
 but the MP7 is weaker than the MP5, the MP5 was used in the HL the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  okay i have been wating so long ofr this game to come out and it is finally here and that is so 
 cool after some trouble and had to start over was it a disater or a good thing let find out gameplay 
 okay the shooting is just awsome and the guns this time are just so much more fun this tim around 
 to watch them dies with you high powered weapons and i know you have problay habe hear this in 
 every reveiw but still the gravity gun omg i love it it is so awsome the things oyu can do with 
 it when you finally level it far enogh up in the game and now the graphics um they are almost perfect 
 but some of the character close up are sad and etchy the sound is just good i love the voice overs 
 that was one fo my fav in the gam i just love the sound and thats charlies word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss028
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The greatest gameplay that I have ever seen. This game combines intense combat, with 
 puzzle and platforming which you do with a cool weapon called the gravity gun. The gameplay also 
 has vehicle combat which you expirence early in the game, when you find yourself driving a boat 
 and buggy with guns mounted on them. But by far the greatest gameplay inavation of HL2 is the gravity 
 gun, which can be used to fling item at enimies, to sheild yourself from fire, and at the end of 
 the game you get this cool upgrade which allows you to zap enimies with powerful jolts of lightning 
 and pick them up, which especially fun you will fing yourself playing catch with the bodies just 
 because of the way they move in the air the physics in this game are incredible.
  
  Graphics- Finally a game with high end graphics and not so high end requirements. The graphics 
 are awsome from facial expression to enviroments everything looks great, and speaking of enviroments 
 the game has you traveling trough haunted city streets, sandy beaches, evil citadels and many more.
 
  
  Sound- A great sounding game, the guns really sound real, the characters lipsync real well, and 
 the enviromnts also have their own unique and great soundeffects.
  
  Value- Over all I think that Half-Life 2 is one of the greatest games out, if you have a pc you 
 should have Half Life 2. The game is long and will keep you busy for days, on top of that its only 
 30 bucks with the inclusion of HL1 source, HL2 the lost coast, HL2 deathmatch which is really cool 
 to, and who can forget Counter Strike Source. So what are you waiting for stop staring at the monitor 
 and go get it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the best PC game I've ever played, period. The moment I saw the G-Man giving his 
 introductory speech, I was amazed at the excellently crafted detail and facial animation. The physics 
 are not just good, they're perfect. You won't see a car going halfway through the ground in Half-Life 
 2. The graphics are the best I've seen on my PC while gaming. Half-Life 2 brings out new ways of 
 killing never before seen in other PC games. Instead of just shooting the enemy, you can throw 
 something at him, destroy the object he's standing on so he falls to his death, push a washing 
 machine off a ledge and crush your enemy or drop a crane's huge magnet on him, just to name a few. 
 You can find so much detail in Half-Life 2 that you find something new each time you play it. However, 
 this game is not for everyone. Little children (obviously) and people offended by intense violence 
 and blood should not play this game. If you haven't played this yet, play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  HALF LIFE 2 WAS WORTH THE WAIT
  
  This is a must have if you have fairly new pc or better that would help allot
  Even Isaac Newton 
 would be amazed at the things this does with physics, but the vehicles can often be a pain to drive. 
 This games story is also truly amazing with the detail they put into it
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: if you loved playing half life 1 then this is a no-brainer
  
  SOUND: NPCs are 
 well-voiced, and the sound of a 
  Strider firing will make you fearful 
  
  GRAPHICS: Picture the lord of the rings type graphics 5 x more!
  
  STORY: Well your still Gordon 
 freemen and you arrive in a train at city 17 
  With guards all over the place (witch you can throw stuff at them ha-ha)
  And people in not the 
 best of conditions. That is but the very beginning of a very long journey in half life 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Awesome, Creepy, Jaw dropping graphics and great Gameplay. 
  If you are reading this now, it does not mean that I played the game now. I finished this game 
 like a year ago but it keeps bring me back. 
  
  The gamelay is normal for a shooter and the game is short and sometimes linear in some cases. The 
 single payer is great and worth checking out and the multiplayer is the catch in this package with 
 counter strike. Half Life 2's game is great in short.
  
  The graphics engine the really the eye catcher in this game. If I want to compare the graphical 
 prowess of this game to another game it would be Doom 3. Although Doom 3 does well in corridors 
 and metallic hallways, Half Life 2 does it all, from corridors to outdoors. The character animation 
 is one of the best I have ever seen. Mouth muscle movement is just mind blowing. 
  
  This game is a system hog although it has been optimised for many video cards. One year into the 
 game and it is still one of the most demanding games out there. I am not going to enter the nvidia 
 and ATI debate about which is better.
  
  The sound in the game is awesome to hear especially if you garb one of those balls with the gravity 
 gun and release it to explode. The explosion is spectacular that I do it all the time just to hear 
 the sound. Overall the sound is superb if you have a good sound card and 5.1 system.
  
  The value of this game is in the multiplayer. Nothing more except you want to return back to the 
 single player game and try it out.
  
  I'm just a satisfied owner of Half Life 2 period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  You're back as Dr. Gordon Freeman. After you single-handedly win the battle with the aliens of 
 Xen at the Black Mesa Research Facility, you wake up only to find yourself in a new nightmare. 
 Apparently, you have won the battle, but Earth has lost the war. The Eastern European world of 
 City 17 is infested with alien combine soldiers, who run the city like a giant prison. It's up 
 to you and your expertise once again to save the day.
  
  Characters from the original game return, such as your colleagues Dr. Kleiner and Dr. Eli Vance, 
 the faithful security guard Barney Calhoun who helped you through numerous tough situations in 
 the first game, and finally, the enigmatic G-Man in the blue suit, who seemingly controls you and 
 watches your every move. A new companion is Alyx Vance, daughter of Eli.
  
  As revolutionary as the first game was, "Half-Life 2" does the smart thing and rarely charts off 
 into new territory in terms of gameplay. The formula remains the same. The story is told entirely 
 in the first person, and you (Dr. Freeman) never say a word. ("A man of few words," as Alyx points 
 out.)
  
  What's revolutionary here are the graphics. And although the game is almost two years old, the 
 game's looks are unmatched by other games. The characters' movements are ultra-realistic, and their 
 emotional expressions are uncanny. City 17 is breathtaking to behold; you almost feel like you're 
 there. The vile aliens from the first game also return, but with a new, and slimer, look.
  
  Weapons include an SMG, pulse cannon, 9MM pistol, .357 Magnum, a shotgun, and what would a 
 "Half-Life" be without the crowbar? New weapons include the alien Pheropod bait, which you can 
 use to control aliens called the antlions. The other weapon is the ultra-cool gravity gun, which 
 you can use to pick up objects, and towards the end of the game, it becomes supercharged.
  
  "Half-Life 2," having taken six years to hit shelves, was well worth that wait. It has exceeded 
 my expectations as well as the expectations of many others. What Valve has created was a graphically 
 insane game that is surprisingly forgiving on older systems. And the graphics, this time around, 
 are exactly what makes this game so addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect. Need I say more? Ok fine I will. Let's start with the gameplay. Perfect. 
 You return as crowbar wielding Gordon Freeman in this sequel to Half-Life after G-man transported 
 you into the future after your escape from Black Mesa. The Engine is GREAT! It is just like reality 
 and sometimes better (don't we all wish we had a gravity gun sometimes in our lives?) . The new 
 Combine are pretty smart but not the  hard AI. Of course, this 
 game uses VALVe's Steam system and being VALVe you can expect this to be packaged. Packaging this 
 with Counter-Strike: Source was one smart move. C-S was probably played more than H-L back then 
 and now, returning in the Source engine is the enhanced Counter-Strike. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  .... because it was amazing! graphics are up to par even a year later in the PC genre. and it doesnt 
 take an amazing engine to run, which is surprising for such a beautiful looking game. physics engine 
 is cool, a the gravity gun is a must see to believe.
  gameplay: awesome, not just a fps, but more, from driving, to shooting, to an AWSOME STORY, its 
 sweet.
  graphics: as I said, impressive. looks nice, physics engine is cool how the bodies fly
  sound: 
 awesome, all nice voice acting, and they actually look like their talking.
  sorry its such a short review. BUT I shouldnt have to write one, this is a hands down must buy, 
 and it comes with counterstrike source, which is another totally different game, but its just as, 
 if not better, than hl2, go and buy this, you wont regret it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. Of all the FPS out in the market this one stands head and shoulders above 
 all the others. Why, because it creates a realistic world, with a wonderful story and memoarble 
 solid characters. The Game play is long, up to 25 hrs of gaming pleasure. Which is great since 
 many new FPS are over within 10 hrs. Granted this game is steping stone in the Half Life series. 
 The ending has no resoulution, leaving the story open to new chapters in Gordons advetures. I am 
 not going to bother retelling the story or try to explain what happens. I will state what I liked 
 and disliked in the game. 
  
  
  1. Excellent graphics. I believe this is the best renduring of humans, in any game. The people 
 in this game have an ablity to show realistic facial expression and certain emotions through there 
 mannerism and face. Their body movements are more natual, and fluid than most games. They even 
 have a glimer in there eyes, that changes depending on the lighting. The world itself is also very 
 well done, building, water, vechicles, secenry and the sky all have a realistic look to them. Though 
 the vegitation is not as well rendered as in Fry Cry, nor do you have the 1.2Km draw as you do 
 in that game. The lighting is also quite good, with detailed shadows, and natural lighting though 
 I believe FEAR might beat it in this dept. Overall the graphics in this game are outstanding, though 
 certain games might be better in one aspect over HL2. 
  
  Unlike the first Half Life, I do have issues with the lack luster AI in HL2 of the NPCs, both the 
 Rebels and the enemy including Combine, alien creatures and zombies are all pretty easy to kill. 
 None of them are intelligent foes. They rarely use the enviroment to their advantage, nor do they 
 use any real tactics. Alot more could have been done with the AI. Friendly forces constantly get 
 in the way in tight quarters. All friendly NPCs are very expendable. 
  Also the puzzles though interesting and well designed, are not very difficult to solve or rewarding. 
 Most just become a pain after a short while. There are also very long sequences when the player 
 is traveling through waterways around City-17 with a airboat. All of it begins to look to much 
 alike in short time. It would be better if the Waterways sequence was broken up with more walking 
 adventures. 
  Sound:
  I beleive the sound is excellent in this game. All the sound effects sound realistic. Voice acting 
 is top notch, with some good actors doing the voices of the main characters. The the music is sparse 
 in this game, and for good reason so not to overpower the sound effects. Music is good in creating 
 a certain mood or build tension when needed. 
  
  Story: 
  Well the story itself is well rounded. It has a intrguing plot that carries you through the game. 
 HL2 has some of the best most memorable characters in any game that I have played. A few return 
 from the first game, there are also several new characters that are introduced in this game. There 
 is enought suspense, in the game to keep things interesting. Granted nothing is resolved at the 
 end, it does create a good spring board to the next game in the series. 
  
  In ending this is the best FPS yet to be created. Though lack luster AI and the easy puzzles distract 
 from the game it is still overall a great game to play. The visuals and attention to detail make 
 up for alot of the easy game play. Yes, some newer games might, have better vegitation, AI or lighting. 
 HL2 has alot going for it, making it one of the most memorable games out on the market today. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abhisaar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  "Its as Good as it gets , but not as Good as it should have been , Oh i found the other use of 
 "Pheropod", later." 
  
  I was really expecting a it to be something like the Birth of New Generation FPS , but it did not 
 turn out that well and besides too much graphics anyways leads to compatibility issue's on older 
 machines.
  The loading time kills and the length of the game gives a stab on the
  chest.
  The real deal is that it lacks a cinematic value which has something like predefined events that 
 make the game more realistic , plus the A. i was not a breakthrough ,in fact it was to some extent 
 really dull.
  
  """"""!!! I did however accidentally end up finding up the use of Pheropod in the later parts of 
 the game the only reason it is there as it can be used as a poison gas emitter to make the combines 
 dizzy.""""""!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pummelweed
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  i dont know about everyone else but this game is perfect in everyway, the grafics, gameplay maps 
 story, oh my! this game follows half life 1and the black mesa incadent roughly 10 years after the 
 earth is in total control by the combine and powerful human race and u will be fighting them most 
 of the way, the game does a good job of mixing stuff like driving parts, fighting zombies etc... 
 so you dont always play thinking this isnt new.
  and dont know about you but this game just brings out something in me that no other game ever di 
 its a feeling were like its a futuristic world yet kinda dead and it just makes you feel good and 
 this is mostly because of the amazing story, i used to be a big time halo fan but this takes it 
 over good job valve.! i played this game like 10x now and i still keep beating it without getting 
 bored... i think ill go play it right now! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  If you are reading this now, it does not mean that I played the game now. I finished this game 
 like a year ago but it keeps bring me back. 
  
  The gamelay is normal for a shooter and the game is short and sometimes linear in some cases. The 
 single payer is great and worth checking out and the multiplayer is the catch in this package with 
 counter strike. Half Life 2's game is great in short.
  
  The graphics engine the really the eye catcher in this game. If I want to compare the graphical 
 prowess of this game to another game it would be Doom 3. Although Doom 3 does well in corridors 
 and metallic hallways, Half Life 2 does it all, from corridors to outdoors. The character animation 
 is one of the best I have ever seen. Mouth muscle movement is just mind blowing. 
  
  This game is a system hog although it has been optimised for many video cards. One year into the 
 game and it is still one of the most demanding games out there. I am not going to enter the nvidia 
 and ATI debate about which is better.
  
  The sound in the game is awesome to hear especially if you garb one of those balls with the gravity 
 gun and release it to explode. The explosion is spectacular that I do it all the time just to hear 
 the sound. Overall the sound is superb if you have a good sound card and 5.1 system.
  
  The value of this game is in the multiplayer. Nothing more except you want to return back to the 
 single player game and try it out.
  
  I'm just a satisfied owner of Half Life 2 period.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyBerWoLff
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  halflife 2 really takes off with a bang at the beginning, addicting you at every turn. The futuristic 
 dystopia rule is a great storyline and leads to a great plot. 
  
  Brining new weapons to the fray adds extra excitement and allows for more creative gameplay and 
 puzzle solving. If you ever find yourself in a tight situation just whip out the gravity gun, suck 
 up a saw blade and shoot some heads off.
  
  But what really makes this a great game is the mods. As with HalfLife 1, HL2 allows developers 
 to take its engine and graphics and modify them to make their own creations. Such mods as Garys 
 Mod allows users to use already made objects from HL2 to create new things. The posibilities are 
 endless with HL2s modification system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game just blows me off. It is the best game-play ever! and it has the best story-line you 
 could ever imagine!
  
  This game is not that hard, but not that easy either. It's right there on the spot between easy 
 and hard. You beat the game about 10-20 hours. (It took me 19 hours to complete the whole game) . 
 But when you are done, there's the great multi-player (Half-Life 2: Deathmatch) which you can play 
 and is very fun! 
  
  Graphics are (OMG HELP ME) of course, there's better graphics now, but in 2004, that was just amazing! 
 WOW!
  
  The game gives you all the elements such as fear, gun fire, explosions, advanced AI, important 
 story-line, and so on. The characters are so realistic too! They look amazing! They move their 
 faces really realistic too! Seems that you could turn this into a movie!
  
  A little disappointed in the sound because there is very little music to the game and some times 
 the gun shots will sound really bad.
  
  It's not hard to understand the games basic rules. You just pick up your crow-bar and fight. + 
 There are no dumb movie sequences! It just continues which makes the game even more frightfully 
 good. This game is just a revolutionary game that will change your life-style in gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElendilElessar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  From the ashes of Half-life 1 comes the sequel, Half-life 2 although there are other sequels that 
 were introduced after Half-life 1, they don't seemed to continued with the Half-life lore. This 
 game continues off after when (Spoiler) , with a confused man named Gordon Freeman who survived a 
 infestation in the Black Mesa Facility and warped to a unknown planet that the infested species 
 were it to end this once and for all, after Gordon killed the final boss, a unknown person who 
 called himself the "G-Man" who always appeared stimosausly in every single mission and he summons 
 you to a complex to help the resistance there. The gameplay is a magificent, with a first person 
 view like its processdors, as like the first one, it has a new arsenal of fire-arms and grenades 
 or bugs that was put and restored to be more effective. The Al is very smart, sometimes they throw 
 grenades if you are camping near a object, and sometimes they wait until you pop up. The Audio 
 is very dull but still good, throughout the mission you can hear environment sounds like when you 
 hit something, you can hear the sound like for a example a box which is pretty amazing. The Graphics 
 are very outstanding with a new game engine it feels like, a game with no wits. The visuals of 
 the people seems to look like real people (if you have a high tech computer but in the Xbox version, 
 it kind of have some graphical problems) and also with the weapons they look very good fully restored 
 with such much detail.
  
  Overall: I recommended this game do everyone who likes to play first person games but not recommended 
 to people who gives bad review because they are too stupid to understand.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oninboy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This is just a game with good graphics , the story line and character really falls short with it. 
 
  
  The gameplay is just the same as the first Half Life added only with the physics engine and the 
 gravity gun. If you've played the first Half Life, this is going to be a "been there done that 
 game".
  
  Graphics is excellent no doubt to it. 
  
  The sound effects is one of the best in an action game. But when it comes to the background music, 
 it's nothing memorable probably because the game designers intended for us to hear only the environment 
 and the sound effects.
  
  Just a good "OK" game but not a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony110
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Many has said that this is the best first person shooters ever made, and i can't say that i don't 
 agree. This is a very great fps game and i will say that valve has overcome themselves. Everything 
 from the gameplay to the value is excellent and not many a argue with that. This is totally a great 
 piece of work with no spoilers at all i'd say. The only problem now is probably steam. Steam has 
 got a lot of problems and has lost so many accounts to peoples all around the world. But if that 
 dosen't happen to you, you will enjoy this game for a whole life time until the next half life 
 game comes. Overall this is a really superb game and you should not miss this even if you are a 
 fan or someone that has never heard of the game. 
  
  If im gonna say this short you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  this game is the sequel to the regional half life which came in a very, very long time ago. this 
 sequel adds a new awesome graphic engine and i recommend to have a high or even a very high-end 
 pc. the weapon models the vehicles the character models and animations looks awesome! (it's extremely 
 high-detailed graphics) . you can have a lot of different weapons and they all looks and sounds 
 great and even awesome. you can have you cross-bow or you name it and a SMG rifle and few different 
 pistols and shotguns and grenades and you also have your gravity gun which sucks things up and 
 then you can throw them at enemies. and there is also some puzzles action in the game that you've 
 to figure out and set puzzles and there is just a lot of stuff to this game. the sound effects 
 the music and the dialog is excellent just absolutely fantastic. and this game is a game that you 
 won't soon forget it's an outstandig game with a multiplayer that is a blast and the multiplayer 
 is counter strike source you should buy this game!!!!!!!!!!! and i really mean IT!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJGraniel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This game has had so much hype before it's release and I am happy to say that it 
 was better than was expected. The game is fantastic from start to end, immersing into the game 
 unlike any other game. The graphics are by far the stand out of the game, with revolutionary character 
 animations and in-game physics. Never before have environments looked so real or objects reacted 
 so realistically. The sound is also excellent, with superbly chosen music to accompany you throughout 
 it and great sound effects. And if all that doesn't keep you coming back for more once you finish 
 the game, Counter-Strike: Source and the other exceptional add-ons certainly will. The only disappointing 
 part of the game was the fact that many of the questions from the original game were left unanswered 
 and that the story felt a bit unfocused. But that is only a small thing and, overall, Half-Life 
 2 is certainly one of the greatest games of the year and of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deveousdevil
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game is truly the best FPS created. the graphics are incredibly life-like and the AI is very 
 smart. Your team will move out of your way for you, they will give you some of their ammo. The 
 enemies are also extremely smart, and accurate. The story is really cool and the graphics of the 
 environment is really hot. Your on some planet where there are these cool machines. The weapons 
 are awesome. Like the gravity gun, and how you could throw things at enemies with it. The best 
 part about this game is that it's beatable. It's not like those super hard games that are impossible 
 to beat. Overall, this is just the greatest FPS ever made and nothing could beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Well, I haven't played a FPS like that for a long time, and I played the best of them.
  It's all about the production and the investment made by Valve.
  For starters, the game had not 
 even one bug all along the way.
  The graphics are stunning, even on my 3 years old computer with its 5200 FX graphics card. The 
 environment is convincing, thanks to the game's physical engine. The sound is maybe conventional 
 FPS weaponry wise, but the music that appears in some special sections is absolutely amazing and 
 contributes to the general atmosphere.
  The game gives you the feeling it is very long (and fun) and therefore, worth your $$$. I played 
 on the normal difficulty, made all the right turns and barely died or stuck (trying to find the 
 exit of some level without trying to use Gamefaqs. com (C) good services...) , and it took me something 
 like 20 hours to complete.
  The game experience is so rewarding, because Valve used all that was possible to use : You travel 
 by foot, by a buggy or a hovercraft. You walk through streets, underground tunnels, on rooftops, 
 inside a jail house or deserted church, above and below (on the girders) of a bridge.
  You have a very big variety of weapons which are fun to use, and most have secondary action. The 
 result of the shooting of each weapon is convincing - Shotgun is very good at close quarters, the 
 bow is better for long distances (and is a real killer) . Hail gravity gun ! Heard so much about 
 it , and know i know why. You just cant pass the game without it (and that's why he is an integral 
 part of the game) .
  Some of the game you fight alone, some of it has a simplified group control (as in Brothers in 
 Blood, only , well, simpler) , in which you can control soldiers or the Lion ants bugs you fought 
 some levels ago. They have pretty good AI, but still sometimes when they follow you they run into 
 the line of fire of some turret and just looking at it.
  The game have it's fair share of puzzles, or more accurately , places you need to think how to 
 advance and/or think before you act. I found some of them pretty easy, other a little harder. What 
 i liked about it, the puzzles don't take the fun out of the game.
  If I need to name a few minor flows in the game, those will be :
  1. Enemy AI - Enemy units act 
 great as a unit, which means they know how to ambush. But alone they are soft as a hot butter.
 
  2. Enemy Units - The variety of enemy units is relatively small, and the use of the zombies is 
 well, an overuse. But on the other side, some of the enemy units are not so easy to kill, and consume 
 more game time,, like the Striders for example.
  
  If you didn't buy this game yet, well, my penny worth advise says : buy it ! play it ! enjoy !
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 says it all. Valve definitely knows how to make a video game. This game is definitely 
 revolutionary. The physics are awesome. The sound/music are awesome. The weapons are awesome. The 
 bad guys are awesome. The graphics are awesome. Everything in this game is awesome. Half Life 2 
 is the best sequel I have ever seen to any other video game. The physics are what wowed me. They 
 are just spectacular. They cease to amaze me (until Half Life 3 comes out) . What I thought was 
 so neat was the fact that you could control your rocket from the rocket launcher. This was the 
 only way you could kill some of the bad guys such as the combine gunship. This thing was weird 
 and awesome at the same time. It was a living organism. This thing looked like a helicopter mixed 
 with an oversized bug. If you shot the rocket straight at the thing, it would shoot it down, so 
 you had to guide the rocket in so it would hit the gunship in the back. Neat huh? I thought that 
 was so neat. The gravity gun was spectacular in that you could manipulate objects and then throw 
 them with it. That was flippin sweet. Everything else was awesome. The story line was very immersive 
 and glued you to your chair. It was hard for me to quit playing the game it was so good. I love 
 Valve. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hossier
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Now, where to start.
  
  This game has got to be one of the bests I've played in a LONG time.
  Halo is great, but, this 
 game is amazing.
  The Deathmatch modes, when you get into a good game, it's non-stop killing. You spawn, you kill, 
 you take 2 steps, you die, you respawn, you kill, and so on. It's non-stop. You'll never know when 
 an enemy is gunna find you, so, hide.
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutely perfect.
  The character models when speaking move like 
 a real human, and show emotion. In other games, the models just stand there, talk, and walk, and 
 show no emotion for those around, acting as if they aren't there. But, when you look at someone 
 in this game, they will occasionally look back and things like that.
  Sound. Well, it's perfect too. When in City 17 you can hear Combine vehicles and things moving 
 about the streets. When toward the end of the game, you can hear gun fire from places. Yells and 
 ect. 
  
  I'd recommend playing this game, without looking at anything, just playing. Then, playing a second 
 time to observe the amazing things Valve has done to make this game look great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexiska
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  I in love in that game i cant without that beautiful , smart , and deep game!!
  the graphics engine is stunning i never saw graphics like that before this is really stunning. 
 the storyline is great all the atmosphere is cool and scary but not to scary. the gameplay is for 
 me revolutionary cause the physical engine is so cool. the engine allows you to use your enviroments 
 to progress in game. the gravity gun awesome the best weapon in a video game history !!! i can 
 continue like this all day long. for me this is the best game ever!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donovad14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 was the most technically impressive game Ive ever played. While the game engine from 
 Doom 3 was great Valves HL2 engine is clearly superior. The game looks amazing. And even better 
 yet I could crank the video settings to their highest level and my computer didnt even sweat it. 
 Valve is certainly a god among men in the software developer industry.
  
  The game never lets you see your character and there are no cut scenes. Yet this does nothing short 
 but, creates a unique and immersive experience. Throughout the game you really just get caught 
 up thinking your Gordon Freeman helping City 17 from the evil Combine. The physics engine in 
 the game stands out. The weapon selection is good, the gravity gun being the highlight. The enemy 
 A. I. is good. The textures on the models are top notch. When Characters talk to you they really 
 look like there talking to you. When the games over youll wish there was more. Needless to say 
 I highly recommend this game. One can only imagine what Half-Life 3s game engine will be like.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrmgamer206
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited Half-Life 2 is a grand adventure. As Gordon Freeman, former scientist of the Black 
 Mesa Research Facility in NM (in HL1, Freeman was fighting for his life against the aliens released 
 in the compound) , is back on Earth. The world is in an extreme communist government with aliens 
 using politicions as puppets to take over Earth. You are working for the mysterious G-Man, and 
 are to go from City 17 to Nova Prospect to the Citadel itself to exterminate the diabolicle Combine 
 and Aliens who inhabit the world.
  
  Oh my God! Graphics are amazing. The first time you blow the most realistic looking soldier you 
 have ver seen through the air with a grenade, woo... you will be in heaven FPS fans! The gun sounds 
 and creature noises are incredible. Character models and physics are so realistic, you'll think 
 you are watching an incredibly made sci-fi movie.
  
  If you have $30 burning a hole in your pocket, buy this game today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killercortez88
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 takes place years after the first half life. U start off in city 17 and found out the 
 man has surrender to a alien race, the combine, and is under control of their power. U join up 
 with the few survivors of black mesa and start a rebelion. The grapics looks amazing and really 
 improved from the last game. the cutscenes are interactive so u can move around mess with stuff 
 which is better than sitting at the screen watching a cutscene, and the facial animation are second 
 to none and look like real people talking to u. Gameplay is better than the original, I can't really 
 explain the gameplay because its wicked fun. U will always come back to play through levels again 
 and mess around with the top notch havoks physic engine. And the sound is one of a kind with great 
 voice acting. The sound is so good that it can make a annoying, loud kid who taking a dump but 
 is constipated sound like the opera. This game is perfect in everyway, I recomend the Game Of The 
 Year version if u are new to the series because it comes with Half life 2, Half life: source, Counter 
 strike: source, and Half life 2: Death match. now u have to have a good PC with this game to have 
 it at its full processing power. Its passable if the settings are on low but u might have chugs 
 and slow downs and u will have long load times so make sure it has a newer grapics card. This game 
 is a must buy and worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yozee306
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  WOW i had got half-life the first day it came out and had had to have played it for atleast a month 
 on multiplayer and then another month or so on single player and ill still pop it in every once 
 in a while but anyways half-life2... i have a great video card by the way geforce 8200 so saw this 
 one a year or so ago in my local eb for about $40 considerung i love half-life and played almost 
 all the mods decided i'd try this one out and wow! it made me jump out of my seat spank my mom 
 and do 8 million backflips! it was amazing! the best single-player and a awsome chapter called 
 welcome to ravenholme which i spent some time trying to beat it :p and the multiplayer is just 
 amazing even with the normal multiplayer there's ton's and ton's of fun to have! and then there 
 is lots of mods and add-ons and game like counter strike source and episode one coming out you 
 can't go wrong with this one so if you haven't tried this one you gotta you'll love it the best 
 game from here to probaly 2002 and that's about it just buy it you'll see why :) enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewmarvosh
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 says it all. Valve definitely knows how to make a video game. This game is definitely 
 revolutionary. The physics are awesome. The sound/music are awesome. The weapons are awesome. The 
 bad guys are awesome. The graphics are awesome. Everything in this game is awesome. Half Life 2 
 is the best sequel I have ever seen to any other video game. The physics are what wowed me. They 
 are just spectacular. They cease to amaze me (until Half Life 3 comes out) . What I thought was 
 so neat was the fact that you could control your rocket from the rocket launcher. This was the 
 only way you could kill some of the bad guys such as the combine gunship. This thing was weird 
 and awesome at the same time. It was a living organism. This thing looked like a helicopter mixed 
 with an oversized bug. If you shot the rocket straight at the thing, it would shoot it down, so 
 you had to guide the rocket in so it would hit the gunship in the back. Neat huh? I thought that 
 was so neat. The gravity gun was spectacular in that you could manipulate objects and then throw 
 them with it. That was flippin sweet. Everything else was awesome. The story line was very immersive 
 and glued you to your chair. It was hard for me to quit playing the game it was so good. I love 
 Valve. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simins4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  If you dont love this game, then there is sereisly something rong with you. Half-life 2 is probobly 
 the, if not thee best FPS on the PC markit for 2004-2005. I cant even make a list of things that 
 are asom about it. there is a huge mod bace for it, the game itself is osome, it comes with CS: 
 Sorce, if you get the colectors edition, it comes with Dethmach. story is osome, altho the game 
 is linere, it almost never feals like you are traped in a saclutid space, and (+or-) it hase a 
 clifhanger ending. The only problems i had with the game is that it was incredibly easy to get 
 lost and there arnt eny actule bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  We've waited five years. We've let slide dodgy release dates and gritted teeth as German hackers 
 took a poke at unfinished code. We've theorized about behind-the-scenes conflicts between Valve 
 and distributor Vivendi Universal. And now, none of it matters. Half-Life 2 is the game every fan 
 hoped it would be. A smart story, refreshingly human characters, and an above-the-bar graphics 
 engine have been synthesized into the game that will forever be etched into players' minds as one 
 of the very best. 
  
  Once again, players live the life of spectacled scientist Gordon Freeman. It's been years since 
 the disaster at Black Mesa, and Freeman arrives in the ominously Orwellian urban landscape of City 
 17. He's been smuggled in by the secretive remnants of the Black Mesa team, who have established 
 an underground research facility. The streets are ruled by stormtrooper and suspicion, all organized 
 by The Combine. 
  
  Many familiar faces return (security guard Barney and the G-Man) , and plenty of new participants 
 join the fray, among whom are the memorable Alyx and her engineered pet, Dog. The story here is 
 larger and more complex than the first, and though it's not absolutely satisfying on every level, 
 Half-Life 2 still represents the best in game narrative. 
  
  After a short prologue, Valve kicks things into high gear. But even the first few minutes are impressive. 
 We see a limited number of characters roaming the streets, but these people look at you. They really 
 look, and it's downright strange. The game goes for emotional connection, and the process begins 
 with random encounters before fully blossoming as Gordon meets the rest of the core cast. Valve 
 has done a superb job with animation -- Alyx may be the first game heroine who actually moves like 
 a woman. 
  
  And then Gordon walks onto the streets of City 17, and it's like a veil has been removed from the 
 screen. The sky is filled with birds, and the sun is perfect. The layout and building design is 
 a dead ringer for depressed Eastern European cities, and Valve got everything right, from the architecture 
 to the tangles of criss-crossed wire overhead. That's just the beginning. Sure, there are the expected 
 corridors to crawl, but much of Half-Life 2 takes place in environments that will set new standards. 
 
  
  Things move quickly from there. The energy never lets up, and the level design is a masterpiece 
 of manipulation. It's all very linear, but the pacing is so good that it doesn't matter. A supercharged 
 sequence will be followed by some down time, a chance to rest and heal, and perhaps a short dialogue 
 interlude. As in Half-Life, cutscenes don't intrude on the progression, with in-game dialogue ably 
 handling all the story chores. The voice performances are uniformly excellent, and once a little 
 bit of squad gameplay comes into play, the feeling of involvement really increases. 
  
  The new physics enable plenty of new gameplay. For one, there are vehicles, such as the buggy and 
 airboat. In fact, the boat provides some of the most exciting scenes in the first third of the 
 game, as Gordon is chased by helicopters and a crazy variety of attackers. The control is smooth 
 and easy, so long as you drop the mouse and simply steer with the keyboard. Until it's time to 
 shoot, that is. And the realistic weight of each game object enables puzzles based on object use, 
 such as when buoyant blue barrels must be used to float a ramp in the middle of that airboat spectacular. 
 
  
  By and large the weapons are all familiar, until you get to the gravity gun. Part tool, part ultimate 
 weapon, the primary fire lets loose a blast of force, while the secondary fire can pick up and 
 hold most small-to-medium sized inanimate objects. Forget about nabbing a washing machine, but 
 how about one of those 20-inch saw blades? It brings all sorts of new possibilities to the fore, 
 and combat is hugely flexible as a result. And when all else fails, just hold a barrel (non-explosive, 
 of course) to use as a shield. The balance between realism and playability is perfect, and makes 
 incredible fun out of simply exploring the environment. 
  
  The enemy makeup is, at first, pretty standard both for Half-Life and shooters in general. The 
 city guard are intimidating and plentiful, but not that dangerous, and the friendly old head crabs 
 and zombies return. But then there are the new, black widow head crabs, which inject virulent neurotoxins. 
 They're carried around by newly evolved zombies that like to fling the crabs at high velocity. 
 With the new graphics and physics in place, the game quickly becomes both horrific and more than 
 a little icky. And there are other surprises too cool to give away, but suffice to say that huge 
 walker seen in trailers and early on in City 17 isn't merely window dressing. 
  
  Just to seem human, the team at Valve left in a few flaws. As in the original game, Gordon can 
 get hung up on some unlikely obstacles, such as a one-gallon paint can on the floor. And though 
 the game will actually run well on older PCs, no matter your hardware or settings, there are sound 
 hitches. Load times are frequent -- we really wish Valve had experimented with streaming content. 
 Also, although our test versions worked fine, there have been reports of players unable to even 
 initiate the game. Valve's anti-piracy measure, which requires an Internet connection to play even 
 store-bought copies of the game, is struggling under the huge demand of opening day. 
  
  On the gameplay front, the AI is hardly cutting edge; Half-Life 2 relies on scripting more than 
 super-smart enemies to create action. And, of course, there's no built-in multiplayer. But Counter-Strike: 
 Source comes packaged with every version of the game, and the mod community can be relied upon 
 to create content. We can't wait to see the inevitable racing games. 
  
  None of those things change the moment to moment experience, though. This is a jaw-dropping, exhilarating 
 game. It's the game you'll remember for years. After about half an hour of play, you'll begin to 
 save every few minutes, just so it'll be easier to replay the really cool moments. After Half-Life, 
 every shooter had cinematic scripting and many implemented smarter plotting. After Half-Life 2, 
 we can only imagine what developers will attempt in order to top it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is everything it is hyped to be, the surrondings are brilliant the characters facial 
 expressions are stunning, the story telling is sweet, and the soundtrack is pretty f$king cool 
 to, the eniemes a. i could of been a little more challenging, but when you come across levels like 
 we dont go to ravenholm, it is easily forgiven for the thick atmosphere intorduced, the game engine 
 runs pretty smoothly as well compared to the likes of doom, and, the only thing i found about this 
 game is that its not very replayable unlike games ive played before like chronicles of **** but 
 it is still worth every penny you spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karimali
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  This game will go down for being one of the best sequels and one of the best shooters of all time. 
 This game brings such a cinematic and realistic feel to it, with great sound and wonderful graphics. 
 It does not take a very powerful rig to run this game, though you will be missing out on the beautiful 
 visuals and spectacular effects. It also comes with the fun and addicting Counter Strike: Source. 
 Let me also inform you a bit on the source engine, known as Steam. Steam is an online service that 
 brings you updates, lets you buy their games through the internet, and keeps you informed on new 
 content. There could me some minor problems with Steam from time to time, but some troubleshooting 
 might fix it. Now lets begin the review. I played this game on a 3 gigahertz pentium 4, with 1gb 
 of ram, and a geforce 6800gs, and the game ran very smooth at all high details. The story continues 
 with Gordon Freeman has the main character, and continues after the events of the original Half-Life. 
 You will first get adapted to this game and its new engine, but then quickly the action begins. 
 The gameplay is just like any shooter, giving you deadly weapons at your disposal. Different weapons 
 are found as you progress, and they get better. There is a balance between action and just roaming, 
 but the shooting is very fun and exciting. There are also times when driving vehicles, and that 
 is also very well done. All in all, you will love the gameplay in this and find it to be better 
 than most shooters, even though there are the same elements. The graphics are incredible at high 
 details, and still compete with some of the games today. The engine looks great and has great effects 
 due to its physics and A. I., even though it can get dum at times. The sound seems just right, to 
 the rounds of your weapons to the music and voices. The gameplay, graphics and sound make this 
 into a package that you must experience. Now the value of this game is also there. You will definently 
 come back to relieve the action, but maybe back to only play a certain select levels. This shooter 
 stands out from the rest; Half-Life 2 is an incredible experience for any that loves action or 
 pc games or just games in general. This game will be one of the best shooters you ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakdownXcore
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is VERY well made.. the graphics are SUPERB!.. and simply AMAZING. they look very relistic. 
 the gameplay is also fantastic.. this game is really addictive and lasts for quite sometime. they 
 just made another sequal to this game.. free if you downloaded it online. the characters in this 
 game are also very relistic and very cool. there are some MAJOR improvements on this game snice 
 half life 1. if there are any halflife fans out there and u havnt played this game yet.. you are 
 in for a SERIOUS shock. this game is deffantley one of the best games out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  This game, when you buy it, includes a steam account, counter strike source, half life 2 and half 
 life 2: lost coast demo. Is it me or is this game a complete bargain?!
  I then started playing half life 2, which I have to say is the best FPS of 2004, maybe even of 
 all time, only contended by counter strike source. Both game have the best FPS graphics by far. 
 Half life 2 had a great storyline with lots of twists and turns here and there, as wel as a high 
 variety of weapons to choose from, as well as enemies to kill, from soldiers to mutant monsters.
 
  Then counter strike source is also a great game, which you have can play on the internet or off 
 it. There are hundreds of maps to play on, most created by individuals who love the game that much. 
 You have to play counter strike to love it truely, and anybody who has not heard of CS must live 
 under a rock.
  Basically this game package has everything you need and if you only buy one game this year, buy 
 this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasc00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Good game, excellent story too, good as the first's.
  
  Kick ass gameplay, everything in the game is seen frm your characters eyes, there are no cut scenes 
 :) Graphics are awesome! Nothing wrong, first time i saw it i was like :0. I have a crappy card, 
 and it works great. Sound is fine, but let's talk about the mods. You have counter strike source, 
 day of defeat, and then deathmatch. But garry's mod, owns them all :D You can edit everything in 
 that mod. I gave it a 9 in value because you have to buy some multiplayer stuff though.
  
  Buy this game, or borrow it from a friend, awesome single player, and it's lengthy too! 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellraisinkilla
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  Well..... once in a while does a game come out thats gonna define the whole genre it stands for. 
 Half life 2 does just that for the stalin FPS genre. Graphics that make u wonder wat u where playing 
 till then, gameplay that gets u goin nice'n smooth. thaz half life 2 for you. but as far as the 
 plot goes, there r places u wud never want 2 go. I was stuck up at a few places not knowing wat 
 to do. took me hours to figure it out. I had the same problem with HL1. One thing i hated bout 
 HL2 is that Gordon wouldn't open his mouth. I think he should atleast hav had a few 1 liners. It 
 makes him look too mechanical. Hopin to hear a word out of him bfore the series ends. A must buy. 
 My verdict. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necro007
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  
  I can think of so many other games I could have been playing, Dont get me wrong this game is such 
 a large leap from Half Life1 but for me it just does not cut it.
  Here is why I feel this game was a let down.
  
  For one I was waiting after each chapter to 
 see what BIG BOSS they (the developers) are going to through at me.
  
  If you guess none then you are 100% correct. 
  
  Not one battle with a large boss, okay some 
 people might disagree with me and say but what about the Fight with that flying ship, and later 
 on where you have to kill those massive spider like things, well for all of those guys I will say 
 that those are just so dead boring even on harder difficulty levels, I could have done it in my 
 sleep!!!
  
  You know what that boss battle thing is not so big in fact; if it was not for the ending of the 
 game I would not even hesitate to give this game 10 out of 10.
  
  Unfortunately this game has no ending its so stupid its unbelievable, I spent so many hours trying 
 to finish this game to see what ending the developers will show us for all our hard work but nothing.
 
  
  All you get is .is. there is nothing I can say to describe the ending except as a waste of time.
 
  
  The story was perfect but the developers messed up on the ending, its like they put all the effort 
 on the game play and graphics and when it came to the ending they said Oh well they wont mind 
 this.
  
  All in all this game has amazing visuals and sound. If you are a First Person Shooter fan then 
 you have to get this game but dont expect a great ending, the beginning is great but the ending 
 is dead. If you can look past those miner problems then you will love this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mech126
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a must have to any PC gamers collection even if you don't like First Person Shooters, 
 There are tons of User made mods even meant for Fantasy lovers, I don't know why Gamespot is dissapointed 
 of the storyline but it really is great. 
  
  Graphics are near next - gen, With the ragdoll physics you could leave the battle with a bunch 
 of bodies lying on anywhere. And with FakeFactory's mods that enhances the textures of every human 
 model it is definetly a + to the graphics.
  
  Gameplay of Half Life 2 is what every FPS gamer dreams about with smooth motions and with the realistic 
 gun sounds it will make it feel like your playing inside the game itself.
  
  In Conclusion, Half life 2 will always have a space in your collection shelf so If you don't have 
 Half life 2 yet leave an empty space beside Half life 1 and Doom 3 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Point_Blank
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  i love this g g g gg g g g gg g gg g g g g gg g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g gg g g g g gg g g g g g g ggg ggg g gg g gg g gg g g g g g gg g g g gg g g g g g g 
 g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is an amazing experience, and it is a definite must have for PC gamers. From beginning 
 to end, Half-Life 2 is a masterpiece. It combines all of the great elements that an FPS should 
 have with a lot of strategy, and also a very entertaining storyline. This game exemplefies what 
 a true FPS game should be like, and it shows us all that action isn't everything.
  There is so much freedom in the game, there are any ways to get past a certain level and move on 
 to the next. There are many different weapons and characters to give this game some depth. The 
 only minor point is the AI, but that's a problem that many FPS have.
  Definately a must-buy for every PC gameplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkinfan12341
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 it takes you away right off the end when you had to choose to work for the g-man or 
 die. Well this game is graphicly updated alot. even now with oblivion and the other games it still 
 lookes fantastic. The cities are very detailed and the story is just great. The story takes you 
 really in the game because the cutscenes are ingame. That is a huge factor which takes you in the 
 game. The itself is a great FPS and the time playing it was about 10 - 20 hours depends on the 
 difficulty. If you buy the game you also get Counterstrike source which is a GREAT multiplayer, 
 the best in my eyes. Half life 2 is a game with many diffrent places like city 17 or ravenholm. 
 Ravenholm is a headcrab infested place with Headcrab zombies all over the place. The way the game 
 is made is brilliant because from ravenholm you come out back at city 17. You really get to know 
 the characters altough Alyx doesn't do anything.. The best part of the game is also the Physics 
 with the Gravity gun. That gun is plain fun and in the end it will power up even more and from 
 than on it is just throwing around people. The game is perfect in any way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a solid shooter with incredible graphics, strong story-telling, and fantastic physics 
 but the AI does'nt quite match-up to it's otherwise extreme technical prowess. It's excellent production 
 values are wonderful but the gameplay is'nt quite as strong as other shooters.
  
  As you don the HEV suit Dr. Kliener will tell you how he's improved the protection and quality, 
 which at least gives an explanation to why you are much tougher than you were in Half-Life. You 
 can easily stand around for about being sprayed by SMG fire at full capacity for about a a miniute 
 before you die, on Hard mode.
  
  The AI is'nt very good either, perhaps worse than it's predecessor, at time's the regular Combine 
 enemies will do some pretty cool things other than standing and shooting at you, but you can't 
 rely on friendly NPC's as much as you could in Half-Life, but they can be fairly useful in a gunfight.
 
  
  But the beauty of the gameplay simply lies in the physics. Half-Life 2 uses what easily is the 
 most realistic physics engine ever! And game does a really good of putting you in one situation 
 after another as you will solve lots of cool logic puzzles, there also 2 vehicle sections in the 
 game which are made pretty damn exciting by the over-the-top physics.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a state-of-the-art, excellent first-person shooter but at the same time it's far 
 from groundbreaking, if you buy this you will probably absolutely love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nss_120
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  When I started playing HL2, I became slightly addictive playing it for many hours, The storyline 
 is a bit strange though, it has a lot of graphical details and more enemies to deal with. I always 
 use the crowbar against lesser enemies-I always get my fun killing them using the crowbar. MAN 
 I've nearly finished this game 3 times, The 2nd weapon I like in this game is the GravGun or Gravity 
 Gun ( I just love calling GravGun) THERE ARE MANY BENEFITS THIS GUN COULD GIVE!!! It's also cool 
 to have to have many mods of this game, especially (for me) having many mods on HL1 also keeps 
 me in touch with the old game. But most of all, after many enduring and tiring years of development 
 of Valve in making HL2, It has made gamers like me to feel more excitement and fun in playing FPS 
 games. That's all!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss2703
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  It's here! The game we've all been waiting for, the sequel to the FPS that some people call "the 
 greatest game ever" is here after an entire production saga.
  But is it better that Half-life? I really tend to say YES! But let's analise it.
  The Graphics. The 
 thing that Valve have been bragging about all the time, are not as full of effects like Far Cry 
 and don't have the lighting quality of Quake 4 or Doom 3 but all in all it's the best looking game 
 on the market! Semi-realistic texturing make it look very realistic, and it has HDR lighting, Bloom, 
 Depth of field and many other technologies which I can't write here but the point is that looking 
 at the minimum configuration you might say it's a joke but it's true folks!! It works on a directx 
 7 video card with only minor problems which is more that great, it's fantastic!!!
  The gameplay has tons of innovations, the greatest being the Gravity gun which can be considered 
 a mini game of itself, the Havoc physics engine being put to very good use here. You never get bored 
 during the game, the only sluggish part being the boat part because of the frequent loading times.
 
  There's not much to say about the sound because there is nearly no music except for the tense 
 action moments. The voice acting is great and the sounds are very nice and subtle.
  With all the good and the bad Half-Life 2 is not the best FPS ever, but it has enough innovations 
 to raise the standards VEEEERY HIGH and I think it'll be a long time before anyone makes a more 
 enjoyable and outstanding first person shooter like Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrick1479
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 was the most anticipating FPS game until now. With its jaw dropping graphics, sound 
 and gameplay, it's arguable the best FPS game out there. The weapons in this game is revolutionary, 
 they also look cool. The story-line makes the game so compelling that you won't get off your seat. 
 In the next Half Life expansion I would like to play with some other characters as well e. g. Alyx.... 
 It's too bad that the game has an ending, but keep your hopes up, there is an expansion in the 
 making. Whatever Valve Software throws at us, we all know that it's bound to be a true classic........ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfulDAGGER
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 will be remembered as the most important fps game ever developed. Mainly due to the 
 Source engine. Using the Havok physics engine, this game pushes the limits of REAL game play. Just 
 watching it in motion is as fun as playing it. The story should be a major motion picture. Play 
 this game with headphones and you will be transported to another world. The immersion of game play 
 and sounds it's what sets this game apart. Valve has made a masterpiece and a game by which all 
 other fps games will be matched. Many MODS are available but probably the best one is GMOD. To 
 be able to use the physics engine and actually CREATE something that really works is incredible 
 and most importantly, fun.
  Half Life 2 should be on everyone's computer. Superb achievement in game design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is one of the few games I have played that simulated a movie experience. I was so surprised 
 at the quality put behind the game that I'd automatically require any gamer to play this at least 
 once in their life.
  The graphics were the first marvel. It was one of the best visual games of its time and still makes 
 most games look older than itself. The water rippled, the envoriment was alive.
  The next quality was sound effects. Most people probably dont consider this a big draw, but be 
 prepared when you play this game. The sound effects are great!
  Physics was another huge advance. This game defined real life motion and interaction. I spent hours 
 just manipulating objects and testing which objects had enough mass to do damage and how much. 
 It was a nerds dream. And lets not forget the one and only Garrys Mod, which allowed players to 
 take full advantage of the physics engine and create multitudes of content.
  The story, like i said above, played out like a movie that you get to act in. I was so amazed with 
 it, even though it was kind of short. Every character was given a realistic personality. Nothing 
 was skipped out on.
  Finally multiplayer. This aspect was decent, the game included CSS and HL-2 DM, both which rocked 
 online gaming.
  So to finalize, this is a game that cannot be passed up. It is something of a marvel, something 
 so amazing and perfect that games will be judged compared to it. DO NOT PASS THIS UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercleft
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Words can not even describe how good this game is
  
  Firstly the story, the story is extremly well done and really feels like a hollywood movie. It 
 keeps you wondering but also keeps you sucked in all the time. Connectine this story and the original 
 Half life story really drives the game as your constantly figuring more and more out as the game 
 progresses seein how it connects to Half life.
  
  Secondly graphics- Oh my god. The graphics are amazing, Thsi game came out two years ago and i 
 got it right when it came out and now i still play it (alot of replayability) and many games from 
 2004 are looking outdated compared to many games today, but this is still uterly amazing, pure 
 eye candy.
  
  Third Gameplay- The gameplay is amazing, the fact that the A. I thinks for its self is superb. The 
 game is rarly scripted meaning each level is different each time you go through the game enemies 
 will be placed in different places each time. An as i said earlier the story drives the game from 
 beggining to end.
  
  Finnally Value- Well for your 40 bucks you get at least 60 dollars worth of material. I did not 
 but the special addition but still got Half life 2 Counter strike source and Hl2 death match ( which 
 i didn't really like, CSS is way better the DM) and then if you get the special edition you get 
 All those and half life source so your 40 bucks goes to excellant use.
  
  So definately to sem it up buy this game you'll be glad you did, trust me
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo462001
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, all the stuff about steam being really bad and making the game crap is only partly 
 true. On the back of the game cover (in small letters) it does actually say you need an internet 
 connection to play the game. The process of having to sign up with steam in-order to play the game 
 isn't really that annoying, that is if you have broadband however. The good things about steam 
 is that you dont need to put the game DVD in every time you want to play it and accessing all the 
 games from the library is simple and quick.
  
  Enough about steam now and onto the game. What can i say about a game which has been carefully 
 thought out and then executed perfectly. When u purchase the game u get Half-Life 2 which is basically 
 the offline game and the story of Gordon Freeman's next trip to 'City 17' and beyond. the graphics 
 on this game are astonishing even went well on my 3 yr old graphics card .The offline game is pretty 
 good but what makes the game great is the multiplayer, Counter Strike and Half-Life 2 :Deathmatch, 
 both are extremely fantastic games both these games will really get you into the game. 
  
  This game is worth every penny so GET IT NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inc3sticid3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a great game but it can get old and repetative. First of all the weapons are cool, 
 The best one's are the Zero Point Energy Feild Divise (A. K. A. the grav gun) , The pulse rifle, and 
 the revolver but the others are basic. The stroyline is great the G-man, Dr. Kleiner, Eli, Barney, 
 and Dr. Breen and they all play crutial plots to the storyline. Graphics are good. Level design is 
 great especialy Raven Holm. The AI is great the combine work together to attack you and the zombies 
 are relentles. Over all it is a good game but it dose get old the mods are better then Half life 
 2 ps. Play Half-Life 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehockeyman
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying that Steam is the biggest piece of crap I've ever come by. What I 
 can't understand is why I spent $50 on a game and the 5 discs I get only install part of the game. 
 I hear people say, 'Steam isn't that bad stop complaining'. I'll tell you what, even if Steam worked 
 100% correctly all the time it would still devalue this game. When I first installed Half-Life 
 2 I had so many problems with Steam that I just uninstalled the whole mess. But because everyone 
 kept telling me how great it was I once again installed it. Here is the biggest problem I have 
 with Steam, after I downloaded the whole monstrous update I told it to launch in offline mode. 
 This was great, I finally started playing the game without incident from Steam. Then all of the 
 sudden I launch the game and it tells me I have to update it again. This is a load of crap, no 
 other games make you download an update. I usually do, but I do it at my own pace, you cannot play 
 Half-Life 2 if it's not up to date. This pissed me off again and I uninstalled it once more, vowing 
 to never install it again.
  
  While I had the game installed I did have a chance to complete it, and I have to say I'm not impressed. 
 Steam started off by giving me a bad vibe about the game, that and everyone is always saying how 
 terrific the game is. The graphics are nice, but I still firmly believe that Doom 3's graphics 
 were much better, not the outside areas but you didn't have those often in Doom 3. I'm not going 
 to say the game wasn't fun, but it certainly didn't have a gripping story. That's also something 
 I can never hear the end of, how great the storyline was. Don't get me wrong, the storyline doesn't 
 have to be fantastic to enjoy the game, but don't go spouting that it's great when it's not.
  
  As you can see I didn't give the game a 1, just because I didn't like certain things about 
 it. Like I said I thought it had nice graphics and really nice physics, but all in all I found 
 it to be lackluster because of the high regard in which it was held. If not for Steam I would have 
 given it a better score, but it still wouldn't be deemed as the best FPS ever. Steam degrades this 
 game, making it a huge pain in the ass to install, and also to keep updated. Once I finally got 
 into the game it proved to be much less than it was made out to be. And you can be sure any other 
 game that involves Steam in any way will be a definite pass by me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerwagon12
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  If you've played through Half-Life 2, the gameplay in Lost Coast isn't going to set the world on 
 fire. You fight your way up a sheer cliff face, trading fire with those pesky Combine soldiers 
 every step of the way. You'll occasionally have to deal with some of the more vicious sorts of 
 headcrabs, and at the end you'll have to bring down a Combine gunship with Gordon Freeman's trusty 
 rocket launcher. You'll have to solve a couple of light physics puzzles as well, which we won't 
 detail for the sake of preserving at least a little of the surprise. You'll even get to talk to 
 an old man at the beginning of the level, who provides you with the impetus to head up into the 
 hills and engage the Combine in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitchelson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a sequel based on the original game "Half-Life", which in itself has won over 40 
 awards and earned a cult following. The first game had the player controlling a scientist named 
 Gordon Freeman, who, after a freak accident in the test chamber of the Black Mesa research facility, 
 was able to combat aliens, a government clean-up crew, and ultimately save the human race. But, 
 is soon after put into stasis by the mysterious G-man, until him and his "business associates" 
 are in need of Gordon's services.
  
  Years later, Gordon is taken out of stasis and faces a new enemy. Doctor Breen, the self titled 
 "Administrator of Earth" and his combine overlords are rapidly destroying the human race, and Gordon 
 is the one to stop him. The game itself is near perfection. Amazing graphics, life-like AI, innovative 
 weapons, and unique level types always keep the action fresh and rarely growing old. Load times 
 are very brisk, which helps keep the flow of the story, and the specs aren't taxing at all, considering 
 I was able to play it perfectly on my father's ancient computer.
  
  The only flaws, however, are the semi-weak story, overuse of dramatic events (I. E. OMG! 6 Striders! 
 THEY'RE EVERYWHERE!) and slight buggy gameplay, but other than that it's one of the best games 
 of the new millennium, and to put it 
  
  - Mitchelson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakes-DK
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 takes place in city 17 where people are getting treated like animals by the evil force 
 of the combines. So its up to the scientist named Gordon Freeman to save the city from the evil 
 combines iron hand. The controls are really good, so you can easily turn around to hit foes and 
 stuff.
  The graphics are amazing and so the sound effects, so there are no problems on the audio presentation. 
 The game could have been a little longer though, but that is somthing you forget when you are playing 
 it again on hard. There are many different weapons, such as a gravity gun and a rocket launcher. 
 The story are great an fits perfectly to the game.
  This is a game that really shouldnt be missed, so if you own a PC ,Half-life 2 is a perfect choice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoemaken1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is a technical marvel. You'll play thru most of the game while "oohing" and "aweing" 
 at all the pretty graphics. But then you'll realize that you don't know what the game is actually 
 about. It's not because your distracted by the graphics, but becase the story was injected as an 
 afterthought.
  
  Very extensive mod culture if your into that kind of thing. 
  Even more impressive than the graphics is the physics engine. No other game to date as even come 
 close. The exception to this is definately the vehicles. The one word that comes to mind is cumbersome.
 
  
  Positives:
  graphics, sound, combat
  atmospheric level design
  Negatives:
  confusing story
  great individual levels never tie together 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhenthorn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 follows up on the success of the first installment. It captures the same thrilling 
 story and adds cunning AI, beautifully detailed graphics, highly detailed and imaginative environments, 
 lifelike sounds, great voice acting, great new weapons, and compelling chapters which make you 
 play the game from beginning to end. The story naturally builds upon that of the last game and 
 adds a lot of interesting twists. Through the story you meet some of the more familiar characters 
 from the original and form a more special bond with them. And of course the illusive G-Man is back, 
 try to find all of the G-Man sightings you can.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a wonderful game and everyone should experience this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters782
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the sequel to the great Half Life one. Half Life 2 has an even better story with 
 no cutscenes. Instead of cutscenes, it is just the computer talking and you have the option on 
 what you look at so you feel completely in the game. So while Barney is talking to you in the lab, 
 you can play (press e default) on any of the various things in the lap like the mini teleporter 
 or the hula doll.
  
  You spend a good portion of your time trying to find a way through things rather than killing things. 
 And this time is not boring, but I thought very amusing. I loved trying to get to the next area 
 by placing boxes to jump over a fence or looking for a path. I was glad there was no set path that 
 you had to walk across, but your approach through the level could be different.
  
  The greatest add on that they added to this game was the car and boat (with equipped weapons) . 
 I loved driving in the boat through the levels running over my enemy combine! The adrenaline, the 
 thrill, the shots coming from above, evereything was awesome! And once they itroduce the car to 
 you, you get to have fun yet again running over ant lions as they pop out of the ground. Going 
 on highways and off jumps while avoiding the zombies and ant lions was so much fun.
  
  The tutorial that they gave when you finally got the greatest weapon was very well layed out and 
 fit with the story really well. And it introduces you to the greatest character in the game, Dog. 
 Dog is a mechanized robot that Alyx has been working on since she was a little girl. So, when you 
 get the gravity gun, Alyx has you play catch with dog. As you toss things to eachother and you 
 progress through the tutorial, it of course has to end in disaster.
  
  As you get seperated with both Alyx and Dog, you must fight you way through ravenholm, possibly 
 the hardest level in the game. WIth so many zombies trying to kill you and things jumping out of 
 you, I was afraid to turn the next corner! Then you meet up with this monk who has traps for the 
 zombies that you can use at your disposal which I found very amusing. Cars tied to the roof and 
 being able to drop that on the zombies was fun for a while, and as soon as it started to get boring 
 there was a new trap that had been conveniently placed.
  
  In the end of the game, the last two levels are my absolute favorite! You venture into Dr. Breen's 
 building and you have to kill Breen. You travel through these holders that hold you in place and 
 take you along the building. One takes you to the security area and upon doing so, takes away all 
 of your weapons except for one. The gravity gun is the only one that the machine could not take, 
 but instead made it much more powerful. So with the new gravity gun, you could pick up things you 
 never could before (large items and people) .
  
  I recommend this game to everyone! Since its on the PC, you should all play it. I dont think there 
 was anything bad about this game, everything was great. The reason it did not get a perfect was 
 because once you finish there isnt much want to go back and play it. But with the extra stuff you 
 get with Half Life 2 (Counter Strike Source, The various mods on it, etc) it is well worth your 
 money. There is a very long list (Message me if you would like the link) of mods that completely 
 change the game and some that dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokegroundruner
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I love this game. The story, graphics and game play combine to form an experience 
 that you miss any time you're away from it. Granted, it feels a bit short, and it doesn't break 
 away from to many FPS conventions, but no other game can provide such an enthralling, action packed 
 ride. You are Gordon Freeman, a normal scientist who has become an almost mythical figure to save 
 humanity, or at least on part of it. You join an underground revolution to overthrow a race of 
 invaders threatening your homeland. For most of the game your on foot, with some fast paced driving 
 missions punctuating the fast paced foot missions. Wait a second why am I wasting your time explaining 
 this to you when you could be going out and buying this game? Go. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 (HL2) starts off on a train. That creepy guy is talking to you, and then you get off. 
 You will notice the graphics are amazing. The people look very real. You can even pick up trash 
 and throw it at the guards. Now, I will begin the review...
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Unbelievable. They blow me away. Everything is detailed, from the water, to the sandy shores, to 
 the people's faces. Definetly one of the best visual games out there.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The firefights are intense. The AI can be stupid, especially the soilders, but the alien creatures 
 are pretty wise and fast. Not too bad gameplay-wise.
  
  SOUND:
  The weapons sound like real weapons. The machine guns sound awesome. All the voice acting is excellent. 
 And the music.
  
  VALUE:
  You might not play it too much after beating it. When your done, I suggest you try Counter-Strike. 
 It comes with HL2.
  
  OVERALL:
  An excellent game. Somewhat easy, but definatley a game worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Half Life 1 was a fun game and so is Half Life 2, though i think its way overrated, but like battlefield 
 2 this games popurlarity is also due to that its very mainstream, realitich looking world, guns, 
 action and so on, every one can jump in a have some fun, though in the end of the game it has some 
 very cool sci fi elements. The most enjoyable thing i had with this game was the psychics and the 
 gravity gun. The Story in the game is a little like my alltime favorit tv show The X files, that 
 you really dont get any real answers and it just gives you new questions, and that works in a tv 
 show, but in a game it gets frustariting because games take awhile to make. But Overall fun action 
 game, but some vehicle levels in it is fun but way to long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron-Dragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Overall HL2 is a must own for anyone who can run the game and an excellent predecessor to the original, 
 but beware the talk of it being the best game ever and such..
  
  Gameplay: As far as the standard running and gunning goes, HL2 plays well but isn't particularly 
 different from other PC FPSs, and the vehicle controls leave something to be desired. What makes 
 HL2 play as well as it does, is the physics. Havok has done a superb job and the HL2 engine does 
 an amazing job of implementing it. Once you get the gravity gun (you knew you would) , the fun begins. 
 I was amazed at the kind of things that one can do with random objects in the environment. In fact, 
 in order to fully give you a grasp of the physics, it would require me to make this review longer 
 than I like to make my reviews, so you'll just have to try it for yourself. Moving on... unfortunately 
 the game was too easy for me. I'm fairly experienced with PC shooters but I don't think that the 
 average person will find HL2 particularly difficult. In fact, I had the game set to hard mode by 
 the time I was about 2/3 or so through the game. There are some tricky bits but they are few and 
 far between. And the AI, as you likely have already heard, is a bit of a joke. It has no improvement 
 on previous games and at times is signficantly worse than previous games of similar stature. In 
 general, despite my nitpicking, HL2 is very fun to play.
  
  Graphics: Very impressive. In my opinion it looks better than Doom 3 simply because it avoids the 
 plastic appearance that plagued many of Doom 3's environments. I also found the game significantly 
 easier to run than I expected. The game looked better than Doom 3 and had a better frame rate.... Overall 
 Hl2 is outstanding in the visual department. 
  
  Sound: I personally had no problems with the sound worth mentioning here. The voice acting is good 
 and the soundtrack adds a lot to certain firefights. The gun audio is decent and ambient noises, 
 enemies and other what not are pretty good. A 9 simply because it didn't strike me as being all 
 that outstanding.
  
  Value: A 10 simply because of the ingenuity of the physics. I've beaten the game 3 times now and 
 I'm slowly working through with my upgraded rig again. Not to mention the game comes with Counter 
 Strike: Source, which I've played for hundreds of hours. Overall Hl2 is definitely worth any price 
 you find it at.
  
  Tilt: A 9 here because I was expecting more. Unfortunately because of the reputation of Valve and 
 the original half life, Hl2 was practically expected to be the best game ever created. Obviously 
 it's not, but probably top 50 or so in my opinion. 
  
  Overall HL2 is a must own for anyone who can run the game and an excellent predecessor to the original, 
 but beware the talk of it being the best game ever and such.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhammer5678
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is hard to describe. It is an amazing immersive gaming experiance. It is fun and imposible 
 to put down once you have instaled it. I didnt find a single flaw in this game.
  
  Gameplay: Nothing short of perfect. From sicking Ant Lions on the combine to slicing up headcrab 
 zombies with the gravity gun you will want to play again and again.
  
  Graphics: They are almost too real. When you first see the G-Man its hard to think your not watching 
 a movie.
  
  Sound: One of the best original soundtracks. Ever.
  
  Multiplayer: With CS: Source and HL2: DeathMatch this is my new favorite multiplayer game. Next 
 to WoW Halo 2 and Goldeneye 64 of course.
  
  Value: With so many mods out there this game will last forever. At least until Half-Life 3 comes 
 out.
  
  All in all this game is perfect. If you have the computer to run go out and buy it. Now.
  
 
  -Warhammer5678 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Guy3000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best First Person Shooters out there. The graphics are revolutionary 
 and the gameplay and storyline are immersive. All of the Character models are incredibly detailed 
 and the lighting and water effects look ultra realistic. The single-player missions are filled 
 with interactive problems which require you to utilize the game's physics in order to continue 
 with the game and the explosions and smoke effects are great. This makes a worthy sequel to the 
 original half-life and it continues the storyline quite well. The range of weapons are quite good 
 and the size of the maps are amazing! I recommend this to EVERY GAMER out there!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narasil
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 set a new standard for video gaming thanks to its revolutionary graphics and physics. 
 Unfortunately, it was too early to apply HDR (high dynamic range) to the game, but they made up 
 for it by showing their fans an extra HDR level called Lost Coast.
  
  All I'm gonna talk about is the graphics and physics because those are my favorite parts of the 
 game.
  
  Graphics:
  You wont believe what you see when you play this game. Take the SMG, for instance. If you are holding 
 it next to a white wall then, on the gun, you will vaguely see the reflection of that white wall. 
 Its amazing. Also, the shader quality is unbelievable.
  
  Physics:
  What happens when you throw something at a wall? It bounces off. What happens when you drop something 
 to the ground? It bounces a certain amount of times (depending on the material) and then settles. 
 What happens when you shoot something with a gun? It may make a hole, brake, shatter, or even explode. 
 Half-Life 2 delivers all of that just like the real world. If you shoot a table then it will break 
 into a bunch of pieces, and you can pick up ANY of those individual pieces. The producers of this 
 game put in what is called a physics gun to show off the physics. Basically, with the physics gun 
 you can pick up things and shoot them somewhere else (still affected by the physics.) This is a 
 very fun toy to play with throughout the game.
  
  I'm guessing that we will not find a game with such good graphics and such good physics until, 
 possibly, Crysis (by Crytek) comes out... and thats in 2007... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riyad_94
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  the best FPS for years! the game has the best physics i have ever experienced, this game has amazing 
 graphics for its age and sound, and gameplay is one of the most thrilling ever. i play this game 
 from when i get up to when i go to sleep, this game can get quite addictive. the storyline is the 
 best i have seen in a long time for a FPS. this game also has the very good, game of the year edition 
 which comes with a whole bunch of extra games. the game uses the source engine very well. the possibilities 
 for this trilogy is unbelievable! the weapons for this game are made well and make the future look 
 just right. i think this game will be remembered for all of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgab
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Wow, the weapons were excellent. Had some from the original Half Life that looked prettier wise. 
 But some of the new weapons like the gravity gun was sweet. Especially towards the end where you 
 could pick up living creatures as well as other objects. Was fun picking up a soldier that was 
 shooting at you and tossing him into his buddies.
  Then a great weapon was that swishy ball which controlled the alien bugs. Toss it at enemy troops 
 and they would dismember them.
  The new rocket launcher (RPG) was nicely fixed up. After firing it, you could control the direction 
 it went (like a remote controlled car) to fly it into the enemy.
  What I didnt like about the weapons, were the low max ammo counts on some weapons.
  Then there 
 was the vehicles: hover boat and dune buggy jeep. Now on the hover boat it was fun moving around, 
 but when you get the gun added on it became annoying a bit. Trying to steer while aiming it made 
 you go in opposite directions and slam into walls and such. Nice add on to the buggy when you exited 
 the vehicle and had the extra ammo in the back.
  All in all, it was a fun game. Cut scenes were ok as well, with some funny moments. The ending 
 however was pretty disappointing. They just made it that way to have a cliffhanger for their next 
 game in the series. It still needed more to the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrealGwar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a wonderful game that would make a perfect addition to anyone's fps collection. 
 The game play is oddly addictive, as to where, you won't notice when five hours pass you by as 
 you are playing. The over all design of the game is well done and very exciting. The multi-player 
 side of Half-Life 2, while limited to death match and team death match, adds another layer of re-playability 
 to the game. The uniqueness of the plot, weapons (including the gravity gun and a crossbow) and 
 the entire world of Half-Life make sure that there is rarely a dull moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuppiesOnAcid88
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The first time I ever saw anything about Half Life 2 was after E3 a few years ago In Game Informer. 
 Until than I never really paid much attention to the Half Life series. After I saw a video of the 
 tech demo I remember being amazed by the visuals, the physics and just about everything. My only 
 complaint was that I didnt have a computer powerful enough to run it.. so I waited a while and 
 ended up buying the Half Life Platinum Collection and lost my life for a few months. Eventually 
 I had the right junk in my computer to run it and the rest is history.
  
  The game starts off in the lovely city of City 17. you start of in one of the sexiest train cars 
 youll ever see. Their youll see a man that resembles Morgan Freeman after getting the crap kicked 
 out of him by a midget with a trash can. Ok I dont know why Im going into that much detail but 
 my god is this game good. Ok back to the review. You start off the game with no weapons of any 
 kind and only after being teleported all over the place do you finally get your trusty crow bar. 
 You than start through the game quickly getting the pistol and discovering that beating a corpse 
 with a crow bar can be more fun than strapping a jet pack to a penguin and watching it chase an 
 old lady through a park. Yeah that didnt make much sense either but meh what can I say physics 
 rock. 
  
  This game also has one of the coolest guns ever (the gravity gun) and at the end of the game you 
 get the ability to use it to pick up people too can you say video game orgasm? This game also 
 has some of the best acting this side of The Shawshank Redemption. Ok back to the guns there amazing 
 thats about it. Well no... not quite they sound look and feel amazing, you get so many different 
 ones and yeah thats just wonderful. Well that about raps that up.
  
  To say that this games graphics are amazing is like kicking it in the nuts multiple times. The 
 texturing and landscapes and people (especially the facial expressions) are amazing to say the 
 least. They look so life like that its kind of creepy. 
  
  All and all this is simply one of the best shooters ever made scratch that one of the best games 
 ever made. I highly recommend this to anybody who likes video games in general do your self a 
 favor go get this now.. stop what youre doing and go get this. If you dont have a computer 
 that can run it. Steal one than go get this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The game that introduced me to FPS's still has me reeling. This game evokes emotions best described 
 like this: Can you ever recall feeling completely stupefied and delirious after a serious life 
 changing event? 
  
  Whatever that event may be, however the feeling may have felt is an understatement of what you 
 will experience after playing Half-Life 2. The small tweaks made from the first installment really 
 make this game great. Some new weapons, a 2D version of the game, and intense graphics. Though 
 the story is still about Gordon Freeman and Black Mesa, it has evolved into prime time drama worthy 
 of an Oscar. 
  
  Quite possibly one of the best games ever created, it also doubles as one of (if not THE best) 
 sequel to a game ever created. Get it, Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylr291
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  To describe Half-Life 2 in one word "WOW!" This game amazed me. When you first start off on your 
 trolley leading into the city, you are just astonished on how much they improved the first one. 
 The city is so interactive too. You can walk up to a combine soldier, and get him pissed off by 
 throwing something at him, and he will start running towards you with a taser! 
  The storyline was pretty good too. It covered what happened after Half-Life very nicely, but didn't 
 cover enough of what is going on in the present game, and then it leaves you with the biggest cliffhanger 
 in video game history. 
  The gameplay was amazing. It improved the first Half-Life very much. The new physics system will 
 blow your mind. Also, you can use vehicles now! Driving through a bug infested desert shooting 
 all the antlions was one of the best experiences I ever had in a video game. The shooting was great 
 too, you would get help sometimes and blast the whole army down, or you would have to use your 
 surrondings, shooting down massive armies. The multi-player is what tops it all off. Not Half-Life 
 2 Deathmatch, but all of the mods. Counter-Strike Source, Garry's Mod, and tons of others are what 
 makes this game even better.
  If you never played it, this game is a must have. Buy it immediatly!!! Counter-Strike Source just 
 makes this game last forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_fang_kid7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay is phenomenal you can interact with everything. The way you can interact 
 with the people in the game is very nice. The one thing that was dissappointing was that you couldn't 
 kill the good guys like you could in the first Half-Life. There is a character named Dog, and he 
 was built to protect Alyx, and he interacts a lot also you can't play as him, but he helps you 
 and if you need help with some obstacles, he will always come over to help you.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are awesome. Sometimes you forget that you are playing a game. You actually 
 get attached to the characters of the game, and you feel like you really know them. In one level 
 "We Don't Go to Ravenholm" there are a pair of legs hanging from the tree, and you when you see 
 them you feel like something bad happened here, and you are freaking out and peaking around every 
 corner before you go around it. Everything has extensive detail, especially the blood it looks 
 very life-like.
  
  Sound - There isn't much to say about the sound, except that it is very good. When you fire a weapon 
 you can hear it echo according to the envirornment you are in. When someone is talking to you and 
 you turn around it sounds like it is acctually coming behind you. You feel like people are actually 
 talking to you and not the character in the game.
  
  This is my all-time favorite game. If I were you I would get the Game of the Year Edition, which 
 comes with Half-Life 2, Half-Life: Source, Counter-Strike: Source, and Half-Life 2 Deathmatch, 
 and you can find it at you local store for around $50. Overall I give it a 10/10. I would like 
 to make this game more well known because not a ton of people have heard of it, I think that this 
 game would be on everybody's favorite list, if people were more inclined to buy it then just say 
 it looks nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonmaster989
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 builds off of the success of its predecessor Half Life. It stars Gordon Freeman in 
 his role once again trying to save Earth. This time he is up against the Combine and the humans 
 they have recruited. Half Life 2's story is engaging and interesting and builds a believable reason 
 for all of Gordons actions. From the opening HL2 looks absolutely beautiful, from the dirty subways, 
 to walking outside in City 17, Ravenholm, and Nova Prospekt everything looks amazing. Aside from 
 a few small glitches in HL2s release version, and long load times, it has performed superbly. 
 Half Life 2 has innovating puzzles which make you think and use your weapons and wits to solve 
 them. Along with incredible FPS action, the shoot-outs in HL2 are just plain fun. Half Life 2 is 
 surely going to be a great classic on which we all look back on and sigh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I usually am a fan of FPS's, but never this much! Half-Life 2 is the world's best First Person 
 Shooter ever made! The graphics are unbelievable, the controls are perfect, the story is the best 
 one ever in a video game, it's nice and long, and to top it all off, You will want to play through 
 it again and again and again and again and again! This was by far the best game released in 2004! 
 There is nothing at all that's bad about this game! Everything involved with the game is awesome! 
 Need I say any more? I think not. I've made my point loud and clear. If you don't have this game, 
 then you are not a real gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChotaZorro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  What a great game this is. I never really played Half-Life, but Half-Life 2 is really amazing. 
 It has a very good story. The graphics in this game are amazing with the great ragdoll effects 
 and character models. The physics in this game is just awesome. The sound effects are amazing and 
 the voice acting is just superb. This game is also a must-buy game for every FPS fan. But buy HL1 
 and beat it first before playing it or else it would be hard to understand the story of this game. 
 Overall, this game was a really enjoyable game and a must-buy for every FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I love half life. I love half life. Half life for me. Half life for, oh wait. **** It's ended. 
 This is a game worthy of any collection. Not to play constantly, but just to show off. I have to 
 say I have never been much of a fan for online stuff but this was great fun. Now onto serious stuff. 
 As far as the one player goes it is unparalel on the first run through. But the second? I have 
 to say this is not layered. The only reason I played it a second time was because I watched HORIZON 
 (an english TV show on bbc1 ocasionaly good) and that was because they told me what dark matter 
 is. A 'supposive' substance that makes up our universe mass alongside with dark energy that propels 
 it. The game itself revolves around you alot but some of the areas where twists could occur were 
 held out too long. In my opinion make the second one more twisted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerman0203
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  I've heard so much about this game that I had to buy it. I'm a huge COD2 fan and I love the FPS 
 genre in general. So with it's advanced physics response I thought I would give it a go. Wow was 
 I surprised! This game is amazing! I don't think it is the best game out there, but it is near 
 the top of the list. I had a hard time figuring out why my computer was running it choppy (almost 
 to the point of unplayable) . I turned everything down visually and still. I then put everything 
 back to what the game said my computer should run it with and turned sound to medium quality. That 
 did it! I had no idea sound could effect the playability of a game so much. So once that was solved, 
 I played and played and played! Great game! On small drawback is the requirement to create an online 
 account with Steam so it is mandatory to have an internect connection for this game even though 
 it isn't an online game. It has online variations, but HL2 itself isn't. Wierd. Anyways..... great 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  The Best game of all games as once again you can have the chance to play with gordan free this 
 game is the best game ever i was very sirprised by this game the programming the graphics the sound 
 as me i always try to find some thing rong in any game i play But at this game i never found one 
 The best in graphics story sound game play This is what i can really call a 1rst person shooter 
 and being prowed when saying i played it for now more than 100 hours and still didnt get bored 
 but the most that impressed is the AI if you played it "Do you know in the begining when the guard 
 tell to pick the can and throw in the trash that amazingand another thing is the waight physics 
 where in some places you put briks and cans and more this game is cool very cool and i garntee 
 that if you didnt bye this game what are you waiting for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlaheji
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Simply, the most realistic game ever. Amazing graphics, ultra real physics, beautiful sounds. Crappy 
 story, Ultra crappy ending. But theres a free expansion pack coming which explains what happened 
 after the ending, so i spose its ok.
  Works with a high framerate even on low end systems (2.4Ghz, 256MB DDR, Ti4200 128MB) . 
  It has 
 its moments, though far and few between.
  The boring story combined with unbelievable graphics makes it seem like a movie with bad story 
 more than a game.
  The scariest part was when entering Ravenholm (I was pretty sure that the RAVENHOLM sign lying on 
 the ground was a part of the ground texture... but couldnt believe it when my gravity gun picked 
 it up) , and discovering dead rotten bodies inside wet dark tunnels. The last level was amazing (the 
 level, not the ending) and huge.
  
  Hope the expansion pack is worth the wait 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidhalo18
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Graphically we all know what to expect from Half-Life. It was beyond it's time then and it does 
 a great job of doing it now. The sound and atmosphere in the game is clearly there and so are the 
 throwbacks to what made Half-Life 1 great.
  
  The only downside is despite the new engine and story, the game plays it rather safe by making 
 it very similiar to it's predecessor. This downside though also keeps Half-Life to it's roots of 
 what makes it so great so it's really a double edged sword that still leaves one hell of an impact 
 on you.
  
  With it's key points on modding, great story and gameplay and overall fun experience, Half-Life 
 2 is a game that'll make you keep coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomlee129
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  If you have played Half-life on ether the PS2 or PC you will know the masterpiece that Valve created. 
 And though it has been 6 years Half-life 2 is everything and more. the genious behind is is not 
 only the continuation of the story but the time spent on the state of the art engine names STEAM. 
 STEAM is stunning state of the art graphics and the Havoc phisics engine. The story is set in a 
 variety of locations, from a run down urban centre named City 17 (in russia???) , canals, rivers, 
 a zombie filled hell hole named Ravenholm, A beachside road,, prison and the warzone of City 17. 
 this change in locations is timed right as you dont spend too long in an area but its not too brief 
 ether. the enemies are braught in at the right time and as you find new weapons old enemies get 
 tougher and new enemies appear. these can vary from the brutal combine to cannon fodder antlions. 
 this review is brief but overall half-life 2 is an amazing pacage and the modding community is 
 keeping half-life 2 fresh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valizotha
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 (HL2) is the game that (for me) revolutionized the PC FPS industry. From the beginning, 
 the storyline grabs you with awe and intrigue, and believe me, the graphics hel.... A LOT!
  
  Your name is Gordon Freeman, you are apparently a very successful scientist which accomplished 
 a great act in the Black Mesa Lab. There are no in-game movies, because, as a friend of mine says, 
 the creators wanted you to feel that ou were Gordon Freeman, so you can never see yourself except 
 on the cover of the game. 
  
  The Graphics........ WOW! These must be the best PC and FPS graphics to date, and mixed up with 
 HL's NGen which let's you interact with practically anything you can find, and lets the bullets 
 inflict damage in different way where you hit the enemy, for example, if you hit the enemy in a 
 leg he will limp. 
  
  HL2 is definitely a must buy and is crucial for every PC gamer to try at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Easily the best FPS of all time on the PC. Loads of factors help each other to get this presticious 
 award. Lets start with the plot shall we? The game begins with a short sequence featuring the G 
 man. You then gain controls as Gordon Freeman, super nerd, combine killing extraordinaire. You 
 meet Barney Calhoun from Black Mesa shortly before meeting Alyx Vance, daughter of Eli Vance from 
 Half-Life 1. You then set off to help the rebellion against Dr. Brein and the combine whilst fighting 
 against large bug creatures known as Antlions and the never ending zombified hoards of headcrab 
 zombies. The plot includes all the sci-fi twists and turns needed, added with a fear factor of 
 10 in some places, the confusion of betrayel, the adrenaline pumping of chase scenes, the instict 
 of killing and the sorrow of death. Yep, it's all in there and much more. That's just the start, 
 then there are the graphics, beautifully rendered character with possibly the most realistic voice 
 acting and lip sync ever. All the hairs on face and head, fibres of clothing, shinyness of armour 
 and ever the glossiness of eyeballs can be seen. The enviroments are huge and anything but spare. 
 Chasms, trains, enemy bases, oil rigs, burning apartments, stations, giant mechanical structures 
 and the inside of a gigantic robot/mutant factory, wow, bigger than Russia! Weapons included are 
 your standard handgun, shotgun, SMG, RPG etc. Each looking stunning along the way, handling and 
 firing beautifully. That brings me onto the next subject, physics. Never before have I seen such 
 phsyics, throwing boxes, bouncing stuff off walls, driving vehicles into stuff and smashing windows. 
 It's all so real in this, especially vehicles, the buggy and hover boat control and handle like 
 a milkshake, nice and smooth and very sweet. Whether its going over ramps or breaking through hoardes 
 of combine soldiers, its great. Sound is great as well, voice acting go with the characters design, 
 weapons sound almost too real, natural sounds such as birds are almost as beautiful as they are 
 and even the zombie moans give off a sense of pure terror. All this mixed with an amazing score 
 really bring Half-Life 2 to life. That pretty much covers that, or does it? Half-Life 2 also comes 
 with various mini-games such as project Gordon, a hilarious 2D side scroller spoof of the original. 
 Rag doll kungfu, darwinian, source and finally HL2 deathmatch. Yes, that's right, Half-Life 2 is 
 online as well, you can play as many as 16 players at once, with custom rules and hundreds of different 
 locations, as more are downloaded as you browse other people's. So in full, this game offers all 
 the thrills and spills of a GREAT hollywood blockbuster mixed with an adults phsycological novel, 
 with one heck of an expanding library of a multiplayer thrown in makes this one of the best FPS 
 and overall games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 070758
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  this game puts you into massive environments, extremely realistic physics, ya n really good graphics 
 thanks to FakeFactory lol. ya i gave the value ten because there are loads of mods to improve gameplay 
 and stuff. you can even download garry's mods to have fun with physics and stuff. ya thanks for 
 reading this lol cuz im only 13 years old. ya so get it now cuz its released two years ago. are 
 you ready to take the next step to the FULL version of HL2. Buy one. Heck. Buy two... thats an 
 order SOLDIER!!! just buy it why are you reading this crappy review. still reading? buy it. BUY 
 IT! dun read this crappy thing. i typed up all these crap cuz it requires 100 words lol asldgkjahsldkjgh 
 asdlkgjhasldkjgh asdkgjhalsdkgjh dude u still readin? buy the game buy half life 2 buy half life 
 2 buy half life  
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  070758 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcl1993
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is great,
  for you very few people who never played a counter strike game.
  You should buy it.
  
  Very fun game with loads of action.
  To get best results have DSL or 
 cable.
  
  The game features a single play mode as well as a 
  mulitplayer mode (online mode) .
  Great gameplay, graphics, and sound.
  In the multiplayer mode 
 you can go online join clans
  or "guilds" play against pro or noobs,
  in pubs or private servers.
  
  In the single play mode you play as a scientist or something
 
  that leads an organization or something?
  
  I along with many other people stick to the online mode.
  Very few people play the single player 
 mode.
  
  No need to wait get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xlaten
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  It's easy to say that this game is quite possibly the best FPS game there is, but it's also quite 
 possible to say that this is the easiest FPS game there is...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's fantastic the added psyhics provided by the source engine are spectacular and really adds 
 to the games greatness. You are also presented with quite an array of weapons but sadly it doesn't 
 take much effort to put down an enemy soldier even with all their high-tech armor on they will 
 go down after being hit 2-3 times.
  
  The source engine is in a league of its own, you wont get bored easily with the physics, especially 
 not with the gravity gun which can be used to grab and hurl objects around, at one point you can 
 even use it on enemies which is very fun.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Definetly next generation, at least they were when it was released. The great thing about the graphics 
 is that if you run this game on a low end machine which I did back then I didn't loose much in 
 the way of astonishing visuals, after playing this game on a high end machine I came to notice 
 there wasn't much of a difference except in performance and frame-rate.
  
  Sound:
  
  The guns all sound great, and Valve has done a great job with the lip-syncing for all its models. 
 Only problem here is there's not that much in the way of background music. Occasionally at a high 
 point in the action a hard hitting track will play but it doesnt last that long.
  
  Value:
  
  The single player campaign is replayable for sure, even though its VERY EASY, and 
 I mean EASY!!!! it's still very long and since there are so many different enviorments to play 
 you wont get bored with your surroundings, the vehicle levels are also fairly addicting.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Counter-strike source is included and it is in my opinion the best multiplayer 
 FPS on the market. Half-life deathmatch is always fun with the use of the gravity gun!
  
  
  ***All the low points aside this game is a must for every gamer, it's a part of gaming history 
 and should not be missed!!!!*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  So, where to start? Half-Life, while it changed the genre, wasn't the thing yet. It was innovative, 
 stunning graphically, but it wasn't it, because it was repetitive. I don't really like repetitive 
 games. Though, I expected this sequel. For long long years, after many news, fakes, everything, 
 it finally arrived. And hell, it was worth the wait.
  
  The graphics, while not being full of shaders and shadows like Doom 3, and having lower quality 
 textures, are stunning. I still ger impressed sometimes when I see Source engine. Unlike id's famous 
 work, this is a look that you won't be used to for a long time, because not many games make you 
 stop to watch the biological imperfections of a human face.
  
  The sounds are amazing too, with minimalistic music, but placed in the right moments. You can't 
 hear for a little if a grenade explodes near you, but if there is no grenade, if you hear far steps 
 right behind you, there is someone right behind you. The audio works fine, and it hasn't got any 
 obvious problem.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, with the gameplay changing every level. Sure, you keep going and shooting, 
 but unlike the (amazing) Serious Sam series, here you have to think. Between two shots, in fact, 
 you'll be put against physical challenges, mostly doable with the amazing gravity gun (that lets 
 you move, launch, drop medium size objects) . The amazing physics let you do that. Sometimes you'll 
 find yourself running away on foot, sometimes on vehicles, sometimes on moving carefully to don't 
 touch the sand that spawns antlions, and other times those so-feared "animals" will become your 
 best friends.
  
  The story is amazing too, even if some parts aren't 100% clear. Anyway, I was simply amazed by 
 it, especially by the ending (that I won't spoil - not that it's a big secret anymore, really) . 
 You'll easily make "real" friendship with these "fake" people, and you'll really start caring about 
 them, causing you to quick load when they die, because instead of their ammo you prefer their presence.
 
  
  The multiplayer is the only bad part about the game. I've never been a huge fan of Counter Strike, 
 so I was a little disappointed by the fact that multiplayer IS Counter Strike, revisited with Source 
 engine. It was just a matter of days to find awesome cool mods, like Deathmatch mod, Garry's Mod, 
 that made the game last for a lot more. I still play some of these mods in fact, that keep coming, 
 and coming...
  
  Only online-based FPSs like Unreal Tournament series manage to last this long after the release. 
 And Half Life 2, the best FPS in a long while... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allehelgens
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Ever since 1998 the gaming industry has never been the same, so many influental and revolutionary 
 games were released in that year, Half-Life being one of the most impressive. With Half-Life First-Person 
 Shooters became more respected and viewed as more than just a run and gun frenzy. Half-Life was 
 not only challenging but it also required you to think about your actions before you made them, 
 to an extent, thanks to the vastly improved AI that the game boasted. Not since the first Doom 
 had a FPS been showered with the kind of attention that Half-Life was recieving. Upon the next 
 millenium another Half-Life was only four years away, to fans anticipation.
  Half-Life 2 was released near the end of 2004 to a firestorm of attention and praise, unlike its 
 predecessor HL2 would deliver more than what its players sought in the end. Half-Life 2 begins 
 with the mysterious blue-suited GMan from the original telling you what is going on. After GMan's 
 little speach you, Gordan Freeman, will be en-route to City 17, on a train (didn't leave the train 
 from your last expedition Gordon?) City 17 is a slum and the Earth is under control by the aliens 
 you thought you had destroyed. Upon exiting the train you will realize that, yes the control scheme 
 is the same as any other PC game, thankfully, but now there is something different with how the 
 game plays. Realistic physics and gravity are present in every aspect of this game from the get-go. 
 After you exit the train you will notice an array of boxes and objects near your, walking up to 
 a object with wheels will cause it to move interacting with every object around it making it, making 
 each of those other objects move accordingly to how they are supposed to. Realistic physics for 
 boxes, paint cans and luggage carts doesn't seem like a real step forward in the beginning of the 
 game. The physics won't be taking a real leap forward until later in the game. Familiarizing yourself 
 with the surrounding physics will be fun for a few minutes but once you are done messing around 
 getting serious about the game will lure you in deeper, progressing through the train station through 
 City 17 interacting with fellow comrades and seeing first hand what is going on you will realize 
 what has been going on in the world. Cruelty and poverty envelope everything around you. With the 
 cruelty going on there is no doubt that the human race is upset, of course there is a resistance 
 movement going on, that is why you are here. As you leave the train station and make your way through 
 the cities obstacles you will discover you are not wanted, beginning on a run for your life, which 
 is more like you figuring out how to move around certain obstacles, because there is no training 
 in Half-Life 2.
  Even though there is no training mission in Half-Life 2 there is no need for one, its a sequal, 
 anyone playing the game should have already played and beaten Half-Life before stepping up to Half-Life 
 2. Needless to say if you ARE a veteran of Half-Life noticing the visuals that Half-Life 2 is delivering 
 is most likely astounding you, even to this day the graphics hold up very well. Getting the most 
 out of this game will require a mighty system to get the true potential of this game. Seeing as 
 the recommended requirements will chug the game along at a snails pace with lack-luster graphical 
 features, although the game will flow nicely in a few areas at recommended specs it won't astonish. 
 While astonishing people with graphics is a strong point the smaller details are what will captivate 
 the truly dedicated gamer, with the water interacting with the physics engine and the lighting 
 effects interacting with every movement you make it really takes a good eye to notice what kind 
 of improvements have really been made to the visuals. Visually speaking as well as with interactions 
 with the physics and you there are going to be interesting moments in which this game will leave 
 you experimenting with just what the Source engine is really capable of, the buggy or the watercraft 
 don't take the engine to its true potential. As soon as you enter Ravenholm with the gravity gun 
 you will know what the engine is truly made for.
  Although this game is really influental and revolutionary visually and life-life with its physics 
 the game does have small short-comings that any average gamer or any low-budget gamer will have 
 to deal with. First being the amount of money it will cost to achieve maximum specs with your computer 
 for this game, as satisfying as it may be. Secondly the loading times, even with 512MB of Ram the 
 loading can take a while, making 1GB of Ram recommended for the large areas this game takes you 
 through.
  With the areas you travel through it would only be fitting to back the atmosphere with nice music 
 and sound-effects. Kelly Baily has created a masterwork of music for Half-Life 2, like on Half-Life 
 the soundtrack accompanies the locations and the story-line as it progresses, having both climactic, 
 hectic, and reassuring pieces of classical and industrial/techno music. Improved upon from the 
 original.
  Half-Life 2 takes its place in the FPS hall of fame in my opinion, sealing itself as one of the 
 greatest of all time, as well as one of the greatest PC games of all time, not giving this game 
 a chance would be disgraceful towards yourself and your PC, download the demo if you have second 
 thoughts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watson2000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is probably the funnest game even out today. I love the fact that every thing even 
 the cut scenes are first person. The graphics are very great looking especially the reflections 
 and bump mapping. The characters are awesome looking, have great voice acting, and facial expressions. 
 The weapons are very unique and cool sounding, and I love the explosion sound. The rag doll is 
 the best so far and is extremely realistic. The only downfall is the fact that there is only 2 
 vehicles. I defiantly recommend this game to anyone who has good taste in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logicbombx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  It was impossible for Half-Life 2 to be as revolutionary as the original Half-Life. What we wind 
 up with is a game that looks great as long as your system can handle it and plays out much like 
 a game in development for too long. 
  
  HL2 has its great moments but feels very unbalanced. There are levels that are designed spectacularly, 
 you never once feel like you are lost or dont know where to go but then here are problems with 
 levels that go on far too long and gimmicks like physics puzzles that just feel off. There are 
 long-winded driving sequences that are really neat at first but last too long and trust me you 
 will be sick of barrels and cinderblocks by the time you are done with this game.
  
  The story is okay and the ending is pretty good but it feels a lot like the ending of the first 
 game kind of ambiguous. You never get the same feeling like youre part of the story like the first 
 game, I mean cant Gordon say anything??? Overall it is a somewhat forgettable game that you might 
 want to play through once.
  
  Luckily you get the Counterstrike multiplayer with HL2. Ive never really like Counterstrike but 
 lots of gamers really love it and it will give you a little more bang for your buck. 
  
  In the end Half-Life 2 failed to meet my expectations but it was well designed for the most part 
 and you can tell that a lot of hard work went into this one. But its much like the last two Matrix 
 movies, I felt like I had to see them and the production was great but they just kinda were forgettable.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric121
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is one of the most addictive game which I have ever Played in my Career.......... This 
 Game has the Most Addictive Gameplay which keeps you stick to your Computer like Glue.......... 
 The Best Part about this game is it's Graphics........ This game gets it reward for it's excellent 
 Gameplay & Neat & Stunning Graphics....... 
  The Sound Part of this game is neither Dissapointing.........
  The sound is a Lot Better in this 
 game........
  The Interaction is as usual so entertaining as in the previous versions of Half Life.....
  
 
  Overall this game Beats the Hell out of the GAMING TRACK........
  
  See Ya Later with more Reviews..... Till then GoodBye........
  
  * From :- ERIC121 ( LEADER 
 :- THE GAMER KINGS UNION ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  The Best Half-Life I have ever played. The sounds were OK, but great graphics, great weapons, but 
 still I'm not into those laser guns and plasma cannons which you might see in Halo or especially 
 in Unreal Tournament. Half-Life 2 is still fun to play and the game is simply amazing. I haven't 
 seen any sings of getting bored of this game. I can say that this is one of the best PC games these 
 days, and one of the best PC games I have ever played.
  
  Great job!
  
  Everyone who likes first person shooter should definitely buy this game! I know I didn't regret 
 it when I bought this game, in fact I was grateful I bought it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The game is one of the best games I have played this year.
  
  Good: The good would be first the graphics, does not eat in to the graphics resources too much 
 but gives you a wonderful reality, the game is the best when managing awsome graphics with good 
 game performance. The story is awesome, I love the game play where there are no cut scens and where 
 your actually playing the story part, no break in to the story there is a continuous flow in the 
 game when loading new levels just like in the first game. The sounds are great as well where it 
 gives you the feeling of a movie when it come to action sequences as well as solving a puzzle. 
 The challenges are alson good, solving puzzles and looking for paths without making the player 
 dumb. The game is pretty long to which is good, unlike games that are short and disapointing. Lots 
 of freedome and things to learn and do.
  
  Bad: There is actually not much bad to talk about, the AI is pretty good, could improve though.
 
  
  One of the best games I have played. I would like to congradulate Valve for the achievement. Looking 
 forward (hopefuly) for a Half Life 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smallone85
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is perhaps my favorite game of all time but not solely because of the single player 
 game. Most people read a review to see if they should purchase a game or not. This is the reason 
 I am writing a review. The game itself is good because the community that plays it is diverse and 
 there is enough substance in both the game and the mod community to keep you playing well after 
 you beat it the second time on hard. 
  
  The graphics are simply impressive and do what they are supposed to do: bring you into the game. 
 In fact almost all the components of the game do just that. The only thing that the game is a little 
 weak on is the voice effects for the NPC in the single player. When the crap hits the fan it doesn't 
 really sound like everyone is to worried. If a giant vortex opened to another planet/dimension 
 (not a big reader on HL2 backstory) wouldn't you crap your pasts and start getting a little hysterical? 
 
  
  But Half-Life 2 is also good because of the hype and the attention thrown at it. Valve developers 
 knew they had to make a good game and have put together a masterpiece of fun and enjoyment. They 
 also took into account the solid modification community that kept Half-Life 1 going for so long 
 and have catered to their needs to allow the spread of mods for HL2 to flourish. 
  
  This is what the FPS should be and this is how it should be presented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraugEfil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Unfreaking believable is all I have to say about this game!!! Like its predecessor, Half-life 2 
 puts out superior game play with all the suspense, excitement and juiced up graphics, games like 
 this are supposed to have. Game play begins slow, for beginners, but quickly builds up speed as 
 you get into it, working up to intense, for the most exciting ride of your life. From graphics, 
 to story line, to game play, Half-Life 2 is the complete package for all first person shooting 
 games out on the market today. It is highly recommended that you purchased this title and its predecessor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rkw4y
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game is so amazing it has rendered me near speechless, reducing my vocabulary to a Keaunu 
 Reeves in Point Break level. Amazing graphics, amazing gameplay, amazing environments, and just 
 an overall great feel to the game. Now to draw all of that out a little bit...
  
  Half-Life 2 is mostly a linear experience, but it never really feels that way. It's hard to focus 
 on the fact that you haven't had the opportunity to walk too far off the beaten path, with so much 
 to see. You will find yourself incredibly busy just looking around at what is going on, and what 
 everybody else is doing. This results in a great immersive feel to the game. The character development 
 and voice acting are great, and draw you even more in to the Half Life universe.
  
  The gameplay is great, as it sticks to the tried and true feel of Half-Life. All of the weapons 
 in this game are well balanced, look great, and handle great. Nothing quite compares to the feeling 
 of blowing up a large airship with your guided rockets. The story in Half Life 2 is excellent and 
 does a great job of answering all the important questions that come up. 
  
  The only real problem I had with the game were the vehicle sequences. While fun at first, these 
 sequences tended to drag on and were very repetitive. They were a delightful sidetrip from the 
 running and gunning that occurs the rest of the game, but could have been executed better. Possibly 
 occurring more often, for shorter spans of time.
  
  In conclusion, the 2nd half of this game was one of the most amazing and fun to play gaming experiences 
 of this gamer's life. A must have for all gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KitKitty
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  I think its hard to describe how good games like Half Life 2 really are for a game genre. It really 
 is a game that sets a good standard for all first person shooters to follow it with its amazing 
 physics *copied by every FPS after it* and a truly in depth just plain fun playing style. It has 
 a long involved single player with lots of action and variation in levels and areas. It has awsome 
 online play with Counter strike and HL2 Death match, but the most amazing thing about HL2 is the 
 ability to download "Mods" from hundreds of sources that can very from WW2 style Half life 2 games 
 to fantasy puzzle games to sidescrolling ninja battles! It's literally infinite games in one. If 
 your a fan of First Person shooters, it would just be wrong to not buy half life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadengt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  In 1998, the Gaming industry was introduced to a revolutionary game known as Half-Life. Made by 
 a small software company known as VALVe, this game won over 50 Game of the year awards, and spawned 
 games such as DoD, TFC, and hundreds of other mods, including the most widely played mutliplayer 
 in the world: CS.
  
  6 Years later, VALVe has once again blessed us with Half-Life 2, the sequel to Half-Life. For 6 
 years, VALVe worked on perfecting the Source engine, which is now considered by many to be the 
 most advanced gaming engine available. The Source engine combines the physics element of Havok, 
 along with exceptional graphics and gameplay. This engine. By creating this new engine, VALVe also 
 completely rewrote the first person shooter genre. Now the player has the ability to play with 
 virtually anything in the environment. You see a cinder block? no problem! pick it up and Throw 
 is at a combine soldier! This game uses elements of gameplay what have never been used before, 
 and does it very cunningly and precisely. The storyline is a very interesting one, one of mystery 
 and disloyalty. Once again, the player takes on the role of Gordon Freeman, and to make the game 
 as realistic as possible, there are once again, no cutscenes throughout the game. You never see 
 yourself, you never hear yourself talk. you are Gordon Freeman. During conversations, players express 
 perfect facial expressions that makes the player really think that he is Freeman. No other game 
 has done that before to the extent that Half-Life 2 has. This game perfects almost everything possible 
 when it comes to a first person shooter.
  
  Almost...
  
  This game, like all games, has its flaws. Some people dont like the storyline, others (me included) 
 feel the storyline couldnt have been better. Many people are dissapointed by the AI, others (me 
 included) feel the AI was one of the most advanced possible. Also, squad members in the game can 
 piss you off at times when they get in your way.
  
  Other than that, this game is virtually perfect is almost every aspect. I would HIGHLY recommend 
 going out and buying a game. It doesnt require a very high end compouter to run, and is worth every 
 cent of the money. It also comes with CS: S and HL2 Deathmatch, so you get a good deal for your 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is just a awesome, fun, addictive game that you will never put down . . . until you 
 beat it. The game doesn't really have alot of replay value, since there is no multiplayer. But 
 the multiplayer part makes up because Half-Life 2 comes with Counter-Strike: Source which you will 
 end up playing for hours.
  
  The gameplay is extremely fun to play or even mess around in with all the cheats and mods that 
 you can use. The physics in the game is superb, sometimes you can to use the physics engine to 
 get through areas. The enemies AI is terrible but is also fun to kill and fight against.
  
  The graphics, for its time, were absolutely amazing. The water effects and reflections in Half-Life 
 2 were awesome. All the environments fit into the game and storyline making the game even more 
 sweet to look at. The particle effects from the walls to teh blood splatter is the best I've seen 
 to date. 
  
  The sound is great, from the weapon sound effects to the creepy zombie sounds is just great. The 
 zombie infested city had creepy music which made the games atmosphere even better.
  
  Overall, its an awesome game, certainly not like Half-Life but it gets close, real close. I recommend 
 that if you are a PC gamer or even an Xbox gamer, get this game. It is certainly worth the price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  When valve came out with half-life, it was a instant hit.
  But when they came out with half-life 2, people went insane!!!!!
  
  Half-life2 has awesome graphics 
 and superb sound effects.
  The gameplsy did'nt change much, still the standard FPS type it was when the first one came out, but 
 it still satisfies.
  
  The story complicated ALOT over time.........
  
  Put that aside, half-life 2 is a awesome title, although you need somewhat of a strong PC to play 
 it.
  
  It also packs a half-life 2 multiplayer game, which is more or less deathmatch and team deathmatch..... Not 
 alot of variety, but hey, it's still fun!!!!!!
  
  This is a awesome game in all  so on and so on..........
  
 
  This is a must play for ALL FPS fans!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  So if you have a strong PC, and about $30-$50 to spare, I reccomend this game!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gojiita_40
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Halflife 2 is one of the most impressive games released overall. If there is a halo killer, it 
 is probably this game. I am a halo person myself, but this is definitely worth the money that you 
 will pay for it. Impressive physics, and very impressive graphics. Also the support that valve 
 has for its games is amazing, which is something i could never get from bungie. They are bound 
 to come out with many Expansions, and there are so many downloads that come with the steam platform. 
 The storyline is original and keeps you guessing. Also alyx is sexy. For a game character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slurpanddurp
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Right, so my parents bought me a spruced out computer for the holidays. The first game I played 
 on it.... half-life. I played it for a while, then decided to take a break and play some Counter 
 Strike: Source. I literally played all day until I stopped to play Half-Life 2. AMAZING! These 
 Grapics knocked me off my feet.. These beat so many games graphics and I find worthy to be of next-gen. 
 I only played a little because this game was so good, I knew I should play the prequel first. I 
 finished half-life 1 in 3 days as to play this A. S. A. P. Man, I loved this game. It Opened me to 
 starting playing FPS games. Which I do now.
  
  It was all an amazing adventure, no videos or that BS. You went everywhere yourself, and you did 
 cover a mass load of land and teleported a few areas. But other then that, from escaping the first 
 city you were in all the way to Nova Prospect was a huge adventure. I want more games like this!
 
  -Michael 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enterprise-E
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  With many delays and some theft here and there Half-Life 2 deliveres an mega head shot to me. Half-Life 
 2 is the sequel to Half-Life which put you in the role of Gordon Freeman. Just like the first Gordon 
 doesn't say much or anything which adds the whole feel of the game. YOU are in control. YOU are 
 Gordon Freeman. Half-Life 2 picks up several years after the events in the first game. Once again 
 the G-Man drops you in the middle of an occupation on Earth. Without spoiling the story I will 
 just say that it is great. Sometimes leaves you wanting more but that is what expansions are there 
 for. The graphically presentation of the game is beyond belief. The new Havoc physics engine works 
 wondefully well and at times to life like. Speaking of the physics engine the character models 
 are very life like and real. From the eyes to the smile they give when talking. The voice acting 
 is on par with some of the holloywoods best movies. Half-Life 2 all so comes with an Deathmatch 
 mode and Counter Strike-Source. Half-Life 2 lives up to the hype and delivers more . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeriela
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, being the sequel to the revolutionary Half-Life, had high expectations. Now that Half-Life 
 2 is released all those expectations have been met and exceeded. Half-Life 2 takes whats great 
 from many other popular first person shooters and makes it better. Half-Life 2 has moments more 
 intense than halo, moments more spooky than Doom 3, and great moments that you wouldn't find in 
 any other game. Half-Life 2 will take you on an epic adventure that will last until the credits 
 roll.
  
  Half-Life 2 starts you off in a train with the mysterious G-man talking to you about your next 
 'assignment'. Although, this is nothing like the long tram ride at the beginning of Half-Life, 
 because in just a few minutes you will be running on roof ledges with opposition right behind you. 
 As you will find out in the first half hour of gameplay, apparently an alien race called the combine 
 has control over earth and of course being Gordon Freeman, you have to save the world again. While 
 the plot isn't the most original, the atmosphere in the world of Half-Life 2 makes you really feel 
 like you are Gordon Freeman and you have to save the world.
  
  Once you get off the train you will be pulled into this very believable environment. The sad looks 
 on the faces of the NPC's, the propaganda pouring out of a TV on the wall, and the combine guards 
 watching your every move, all this at the very beginning of the game will make you want to get 
 vengeance on this mysterious and evil race.
  
  Half-Life 2 mantains a level of intensity that only slows down for the games great puzzles. During 
 your intense adventure you will be running away from armed troops, running away from helicopters, 
 and running away from armed troops and helicopters at the same time. Although, you will do your 
 share of shooting, running is usually the best choice in the most intense situations, but thats 
 not a bad thing. Such games as Call of Duty have mastered the art of being in an intense situation, 
 but only Half-Life 2 puts you in the position of being the prey. Being intense is only one of Half-Life 
 2's many strengths... it also requires some thinking.
  
  Half-Life 2, simply put has some of the best puzzles around. Puzzles that use the great physics 
 of Half-Life 2 to the fullest, these are puzzles that really test your brain. HL2 doesn't contain 
 the boring puzzles where you walk around aimlessly trying to find a key, this is how puzzles are 
 supposed to be. Although, before I go bragging on and on about the great puzzles, there is one 
 flaw. In the last few levels there are no puzzles to be found, but this is a minor flaw because 
 the shortage of puzzles, is made up for in the increased degree of intensity. The physics in HL2 
 are used perfectly with the puzzles, although thats not only where the games physics shine.
  
  HL2 contains a little something called the gravity gun. The gravity gun isn't like the normal 
 AK-47 or M-16 found in many other first person shooters, the gravity gun doesn't even shoot bullets. 
 The gravity guns ammo is any light object that is lying on the ground. It shoots tables, crates, 
 explosive barrels, dolls, and so much more. By holding the right mouse button you are able to suck 
 things into the gravity guns hold, and by left clicking on the mouse you shoot whatever it is that 
 you have picked to shoot. Not only does the gravity gun help you mince zombies even faster, but 
 it also helps you with some of the puzzles in the game. The gravity gun isn't the only interesting 
 weapon you will be using to fight the combine.
  
  Another weapon that will probably strike your fancy the second you use it is the rocket launcher. 
 Like any other first person shooter the rocket launcher in HL2 makes big explosions. What is different 
 about this rocket launcher is that it after you shoot the rocket you still have control over it. 
 You control the rocket by pointing a laser at where you want the rocket to go (this is even more 
 fun than it sounds) . There is also a cool weapon that can pick guys off from far away, its not 
 a sniper rifle, instead it is a powerful crossbow. When I say powerful I mean it, this crossbow 
 can nail guys to the wall ten feet behind them. Of course there is the return of the crowbar and 
 it is just as fun to use as it was in Half-Life. Also HL2 adds in a revolver (which is also very 
 powerful) and my favorite the shotgun which is, in my opinion, the most effecient weapon for killing 
 things. There is also a sleek-looking assault rifle that has the capability to shoot white energy 
 balls that disintegrates every living thing that gets in its way. Among the more basic weapons 
 are a grenade, an smg that can also shoot grenades and a pistol that sounds more like a cap gun. 
 While the pistol sounds weak, most of the sound effects in HL2 are right on par.
  
  From the satisfying sound of an exploding helicopter to the satisfying sound of picking up health 
 and armor, nearly every sound effect in HL2 is very crisp. Also the voice acting in HL2 is also 
 some of the best. While the music in HL2 might not match up to the phenomenal music in Halo and 
 Halo 2 the short bursts of rock music that play quite rarely somehow fit right in with the rest 
 of the game. Also, hearing no music all the way through Ravenholm (the zombie town) really adds 
 to the freaky atmosphere. The freaky atmosphere in Ravenholm is also assisted by ackward and creepy 
 moans and growls made by the deformed zombies. These deformed zombies are ugly in a very beautiful 
 way thanks to the games pretty graphics.
  
  Half-Life 2 will probably blow you away with its amazing graphics. The wonderful lighting that 
 shines into a dark house and shows the incredible detail of the simple floor and the amazing ripples 
 of the water are gauranteed to make your jaw drop. The graphics in HL2 aren't just for show, the 
 shockingly realistic way the NPC's lips move to the words they are saying helps the story progress 
 more fluidly. Also, the incredible facial animation can show the many emotions of an NPC character 
 without the character even talking. All these great elements make Half-Life 2 one of the greatest 
 first person shooters for the PC ever.
  
  I highly recommend this to anyone with a PC good enough to run it. With a pretty lengthy singleplayer 
 and Counterstrike: Source that can be downloaded for free after purchasing HL2, its got some replay 
 value. If you have a good PC, but you dont have HL2, I suggest that you buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: manofsecrets
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 immerses you in a wonderfully crafted and created world full of life and vibrance. 
 The graphics put you there, the sound only adds to the experience, but not as great as it could 
 have been. 
  The gameplay is simple awesome, spun together with an intricate plot, this single player will take 
 a while to beat, and will leave you wanting to play it over and over again,
  Multiplayer is not the best, but with all the multiplayer and single player mods, there are hundreds 
 of hours of gameplay. You can never run out of stuff to play.
  
  Its is litterally 1000 games in one. Best purchase I've ever made besides my computer itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timo22345
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Half-Life 2. A tricky game to review at best. The game offers all that you would expect from 
 Valve, and a bit more. After a slew of release date set backs, purportedly due to a hacker ripping 
 the source code off of Valve's servers, It finally released on November 16th, 2004. I remember 
 that day very clearly. Up to the date that the game was to be released, I had been pre-loading 
 it every second my computer was on. When Midnight finally rolled around, I entered my activation 
 code (came with my 9800XT) and went to bed, knowing I had a long gaming session awaiting me in 
 the morning. But, the Steam login servers went down from the load, and many gamers world wide were 
 disappointed.
  
  When the servers finally came back up, the game simply blew you away. The first screen you see 
 is the menu, which uses a shader blur to fade into a fully 3D background. The polish on the game 
 is immediatly evident, even looking just at the menu system, which is clean and looks amazing. 
 Booting up the first level of the game evokes memories of the original Train ride into Black Mesa 
 in the first game in Valve's line of masterpieces. As you look around the train, you soak in every 
 detail of the barren and desolate "City 17", the last remaining place where humans can live. This 
 city is ruled by an Orwellian force called the "Combine", and TV monitors everywhere drone on about 
 the kindness of the leaders and the need for unity.
  
  You play Gordon Freeman, a theoretical physicist with a degree from MIT, not exactly the stereotypical 
 FPS star. The game starts quickly, and throws you into a wide variety of locales, including a haunted 
 town, a seaside village, City 17 itself, and the final level is set inside the mysterious "Citadel".
 
  
  Not enough can be said about the look and feel of Half-Life 2. Look at any number of the gameplay 
 videos here on Gamespot and you can get a sense of the amazing entity that is the Source engine. 
 The art style is equally amazing, especially in some of the combine structures.
  
  In all, Half-Life 2 is an epic game, worthy of almost a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwnyy21
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  what else can i say? this game is simply the best. Some will argue that this game has no replay 
 value, but just going through the experience and watching the beauty of the engine as well as hearing 
 some of the background stories is more than worth more 20 hours or so.
  
  Additionally, this game and the SOURCE Engine is part of the greatness that is Half Life 2. From 
 this game, many mods and future games will spawn and benefit the gaming community. While the game 
 is already a marvel in itself, it will continue its legacy and much like how games like starcraft 
 are still having an impact on the gaming community worldwide, i do not see half life 2 or its progeny 
 fading into obscurity anytime soon.
  
  Brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Like I said before one of the best games I have ever played. The graphics were phenomenal. Great 
 controls. Variety of guns and other weapons was great. A knife would have made a good addition 
 to the weapons. The head crabs and zombies created from the headcrabs were awesome. It was pretty 
 long so that made me enjoy it even more. The people that were helping you could have had better 
 aim. Great storyline. Fun multiplayer. Having crazy allies made it even funner. It could have been 
 harder and longer. It was so fun I had to play it over 10 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game but it is overhyped somehow. First time I played it I was impressed with 
 the graphic. The story is so well written, not like Doom where monster just jumping out of closet 
 and try to scare you. Playing Half-Life 2 somehow is like watching your own channel of HBO but 
 on your PC. It is a great game but in the end I don't find a replay value on it. You just get bored 
 after one game and you never play it anymore. Also the protection system which is called Steam 
 is one of the downside of the game. It creates a longer loading time and also because of this you 
 cannot sell the game back to the store cause the CD key only assigned to one person. This game 
 has 2 multiplayer modes which are really addictive. First is Half-Life 2 Deathmatch. Playing against 
 other people with gravity gun is really fun. Counter-Strike: Source also hasn't lost it's charm 
 to most of people. 
  
  Overall it is a good game but there isn't really replay value for the single player mode but the 
 multiplayer is really well made and it is one of a great masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomarbiter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Let's just be as clear as possible now shall we? Half-Life 2 on the pc IS fps game of the year, 
 valve has done it once again and raising the fps bar that makes few games in it's category able 
 to compete. A few good reasons is that this game packs absolutely outrageously gorgeous graphics, 
 an incredibly exciting and believable story and interesting characters that you'll grow to really 
 care and protect.
  
  In Half-Life 2, you once again assume the role of Gordon Freeman, the theoretical physicist who 
 saved the world from an alien invasion at the end of Half-Life. Or did he? Half-Life 2 starts you 
 off facing the infamous G-Man, the mysterious blue-suited character from the first game who employed 
 you forcingly after the last game, and you start the game in a train entering City 17 for your 
 introduction into this new world. 
  
  City 17 is a run-down urban center with all of the remnants of a defeated humanity. Half-Life 2 
 takes place an untold number of years after the Black Mesa incident, but it's clear that much has 
 changed. A mysterious enemy known as the Combine has conquered the planet and installed a human 
 puppet government to carry out its rule. Black-clad security forces patrol the streets, while propaganda 
 blares endlessly. If there's one thing that Valve does extremely well, it's capture a sense of 
 atmosphere -- this vision of a dystopian police state is chillingly effective. But you won't spend 
 a lot of time soaking in the scene before you're thrust into the struggle to defeat the Combine 
 and free humanity. 
  
  Valve has this time around used facial expression graphics based on real life people and this added 
 with enhanced graphical surrounds makes this game win the spot for best graphic winner of 2004. 
 The action is very engaging and the level design is incredibly realistic but smart from room to 
 room fighting to deep and dark tunnels. Some weapons reappear from the last game, the old crowbar 
 is back along with some new twists and the introduction of vehicles. Each level is incredibly long 
 and you'll remember it for years to come from the creepy ravenholm level and the mysterious churchman 
 known only as father to City 17 and the humanity there fighting for their right to survive.
  
  The only thing that this game lacks is that there is not more of it to satisfy and that just 
 proves how fun this game is, the story is gripping, at the end of the game in City 17 you'll get 
 this feeling of anger on the combine and you'll start to hate them so much that you'll probably 
 won't worry about your life for the sake of vengeance. Really a review can not do justice to how 
 good this game looks and feels.
  
  Now because valve has released this game on both pc and xbox, there is some noticeable difference, 
 the pc version has better graphics, a good frame rate and the ability of multiplayer from counter-strike: 
 source. In conclusion whether you get the pc version of the game or it's xbox equivalent, this 
 is certainly a must have. Kingdom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I'm one of the people that never really played the original Half-Life, yes i'll admitt it... but 
 this game was possibley one of THE best games that i have ever had the opportunity to play. This 
 game was great! Good storyline, good voice acting, great graphics, and sound. I also like how i 
 got another good game with it Counter Strike Source another great game. But this is about Half-Life. 
 Everything about this game was beautiful. It was a little short i have to addmitt, but there's 
 and expansion comming out so who cares anymore. Out of the entire game best thing about it was 
 the creativity and the things that it can make people think, what happens if something like that 
 happened here? Who is this "G-Man"?, What is the oh-so-quiet Gordon Freeman thinking? but hopefully 
 this will al be answered before my time is up, and if we're all lucky we can maybe get a decent 
 game-to-movie script going! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Amazing game has a lot of good things that I gone talk about it :
  Graphic: great graphic with AA system , great reflections and there is difference between it and 
 the old one .
  Physic engine : amazing that any thing can move or hold in hands .
  Sounds : good sounds but it need more work and more music .
  Game play : you will never get bored 
 from it and the most cool thing is how you play all levels like you are playing a large one level 
 .
  The bad things : no rock music and the weapons are a few .
  My Last Word : Amazing game with great graphic , storyline and physic engine . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schlim
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Physics, great storyline, amazing graphics... Look at the screens w/ HDR! How could you not love 
 that? Pretty sweet audio as well. Catchy music and professional ambience. Fun multi-player.
  
  I played half-life for a long time and didn't think it could get much better, other than the 
 graphics maybe. Then there was unreal tournament, and, halo... but just as I was about to lose 
 hope for valve out comes hl2... I love this game. It is immersive and fun. 
  
  the only part I that really bothered me was when you had to drag air-tight canisters 10 feet under 
 the water... that is not physically possible! Unless maybe you had an HEV suit... :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonsenseical
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  I remember when I was a young lad, I loved half life 1. I couldnt beat it without cheats, but 
 it was still a great game. Now the sequel is out, and I can't think of a better game. Granted its 
 online play isn't the best (especially when compared to UT2004) but the storyline and game play 
 will never be topped.
  
  If you never played half life 1 you might be a bit confused. You may feel like this is a rip off 
 of 1984 or war of the worlds. Well, it really isn't. The plot runs much deeper then meets the eye. 
 I would highly recommend you read this http://members. shaw. ca/halflifestory/ even if you beat half 
 life 1. Beware, it the half life 2 portion it has spoilers.
  
  The plot of half life 2 is very hidden, they want you to uncover it yourself. The general idea 
 is that you know as much as Gordon freeman knows. After half life 1 the G-man put you into a time 
 portal thing, and you wake up in half life 2. You don't know what happened between the 2 games, 
 but subtle clues will show you the plot. For example -----*SPOILERS* ----- Dr. Breen is your administrator 
 from black mesa (half life 1) -----*SPOILERS* -----
  
  The game play is amazing; they balance cool puzzles with amazing combat sequences. There are some 
 scenes where if you play how the game was meant to be played you will almost die because the game 
 is so cool. You will travel the coast on a buggy, fight off combine drop ships, lead an all out 
 assault on the combine, the list goes on and on.
  
  The physics engine is stunning. You need to experience it to understand.
  
  If you haven't 
 played half life 2 you are missing out on the best game of all time. Don't give up; the ending 
 levels (last 3-4 chapters) are the best in the game. They are amazingly fun. No other single player 
 game has done anything quite as fun.
  
  The game teaches you to play, as you play. You don't realize it, but it does. There is almost no 
 "Press spacebar to jump" parts, as these don't teach you "how to play" the reach parts that teach 
 you how to play are usually unnoticed, until you reach a later part of the game.
  
  The game is the best. No other words can describe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmc466
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  This game is very, very good and addicting. Once you get a little bit into the game you just go 
 on an adventure that you can't let go you have to play. The graphics are some of the best ever, 
 but probably my favorite part about this game is that it feels exactly like a movie and doesn't 
 even have any cut scenes. Its an absolutley unbelieveable experience that can be enjoyable for 
 anyone. The one true flaw is that sometimes it can get pretty tough and you wonder how the hell 
 do I get past this but those parts come few and far between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funny_bunch71
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 delivers everything I have ever expected and wanted in a game and surpases it with 
 its amazing gameplay graphics and physics engine the game is huge the weapons are fun and the battles 
 are amazing this game has set the standard for what I expect in games. The level I enjoyed the 
 most was when you got the first look at the Striders they were huge spider like machines that could 
 kill almost anything you so had to use Rocket launches which were lazer targeted and destroy them 
 any part with striders was more fun then you would ever expect from a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrillos
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  Maybe the best 3D Shooter i've ever played!!!! And this opinion doesn't depend only on beautiful 
 graphics (because other games have also beautiful graphics, ex. DOOM3, Medal of Honor) . The critical 
 thing that makes a game AWESOME for me, is stability. And HL2 is the only one so stable amongst 
 the others!!!! No cracking scenes, no freezing, no nothing!!!!
  I never played the first HL, but now i realize i made a big mistake. This game is a beast! I cant 
 wait to go home after work, just to play it over and over again and again and again and again!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  From beginning to end, Half-Life 2 is a masterpiece. It combines all of the great elements that 
 an FPS should have with a lot of strategy, and also a very entertaining storyline. This game exemplefies 
 what a true FPS game should be like, and it shows us all that action isn't everything.
  
  Some of the coolest gaming moments in my life have happened in this game. For example, you probably 
 know that level where you have to place the turrets in the jail to stop the hundreds of enemies 
 pouring out at you. Well, since there is so much freedom in this game, I decided to try my own 
 way of beating this part. I kept on dying because they would knock over my turrets and I would 
 go out to pick them back up, and then they would throw grenades and kill me. So what I did was 
 I took barrels and boxes and blocked the 2 entrances to the room that has the turrets in it. I 
 then set up the turrets so that they were inside the room. When the enemies came out, the couldn't 
 get in to knock over my turrets. I thought it was hilarious. Even though this kind of shows that 
 the AI isn't that great, it still proves that because of this games freedom, there are many ways 
 to complete a task.
  This is just one of the many cool things I have seen in this game.
  
  Half-Life 2 has some of the best graphics out there. From the shiny textures to the amazing 
 and realistic explosions, you will be staring at the TV until you beat the game, hardly wanting 
 to even blink. It is amazing to see how well the graphics run even when the levels are so big and 
 there are so many enemies on the screen and so much going on. I also thought it was great how most 
 of the items were destructible, such as boxes, docks, vehicles, planes, etc.
  
  The gravity gun! What an amazing weapon it is. I was thinking, they should have just made a mini-game 
 called Gravity Gun where you throw things around and destroy random items. I really had a lot of 
 fun with the physics in this game! I must have spent about an extra hour just messing around with 
 the gravity gun. I would go into a building and throw everything out the windows, and I thought 
 it was fun to take people's TVs and throw them out the window while they were watching them. HL2 
 has some of the coolest and most entertaining physics I have ever seen besides Psi Ops: The Mindgate 
 Conspiracy. I don't know about you, but I just love messing around in a game with good physics.
 
  
  Now let's talk about the action this game has to offer. Well, to sum it up its near perfect. There 
 is a wide variety of action in this game. You might be driving the fanboat, and next thing you 
 know you will be trying to shoot down 3 heliplanes with a rocket launcher. I also thought that 
 it was a lot of fun to drive the dune buggy, and I liked the realistic vehicle sounds and the boost 
 button. Also in terms of action, the shooting is amazing too. I just wish that the zoom feature 
 on the suit would have worked with the guns. For most of the game, I just used the pistol, but 
 there were times where it was just too hard so I had to use some of the more powerful weapons.
 
  
  This game has a lot of those memorable gaming moments that I usually talk about. People who play 
 this game will always remember fighting off the "giant ants" with the rocket launcher, and blowing 
 the heli-planes out of the sky with the turrets. I will never forget that level where you had to 
 blow up that plane that dropped about 30 floating bombs everytime it went by. I will never forget 
 Dog, and how he helped me get through the door on my way to Ravenholm. I will never forget the 
 enhanced gravity gun that could pick up people and rip computers out of the walls. There are so 
 many good aspects of this game, that most people will always remember the fun they had with it. 
 
  
  Since this game is so fun in single player, why not add a multiplayer mode? I think that this added 
 a lot of replay value to the game, and its too bad the Xbox version couldn't include it because 
 that might have affected the score.
  
  All in all, Half-Life 2 is a must own PC game, and there is so much good to be seen in this game. 
 Whether you're a fan of Halo 2 on the Xbox or Killzone on the PS2, you will most likely enjoy playing 
 this game. I think that it is one of the best FPS games out there, and if you have a PC good enough 
 to run this game, go out and get it! If you have an Xbox, ahh what the heck, its still a pretty 
 good game even though a lot of the features were lost.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  The greatest first person shooter ever made by a man? Maybe but the very long awaited FPS took 
 the world by storm with its arrival in November but it is very popular including Counterstrike 
 a game which tens of thousands still play now and Deathmatch of which both have some interesting 
 modes but first the big game itself.
  
  Half Life 2 supposedly started where the first one finished off (i wouldn't know ive never played 
 it) with you (Gordan Freeman) arriving in a city called City 17 by train. It (and the rest of the 
 world) has become invaded by the evil, merciless Combine who have enslaved the human race, with 
 thanks to Dr. Breen (your old boss back at Black Mesa) who sold out the humans for a position of 
 power within the Combine. After you arrive Barney (a security guard back at Black Mesa) and Eli 
 Vance (a scientist from Black Mesa) help you out as you try and stop the Combine and Breen.
  
  Of course what helps make a FPS is its guns and HL2 has enough to satisfy any shooting fan 
 plus the weapons feel really balanced with there being the perfect amount of rounds per gun. The 
 weapons are the Crowbar good for smashing crates and not much else, pistol good at first then useless, 
 SMG good and the grenades pack quite a punch, magnum extremly powerful but with only two extra 
 clips, shotgun explains itself, grenades, pulse rifle with plasma ball as secondary fire, gravity 
 gun pick up, drag and move objects, crossbow and laser pointed RPG round up the weapons.
  
  The level design is also really impressive and the enemies A. I with the Combine troops ducking 
 for cover and lobbing grenades when they spot you. the head crab zombies also go for box's and 
 barrels to smack at you and the antlions attack feroiously in groups and there are great sonds 
 as well from the weapons and enemies.
  
  Now the extra games you get at first are Counterstirke, HL2 deathmatch, a 2d HL with four guns 
 and the demo of the expansion which is one level. Counterstrike most of you should know as you 
 buy weapons and have one life as Terrorist or Counter Terrorists and lay and defuse, rescue hostages 
 or just shoot each other. HL2 deathmatch has DM, TDM, CTF where you need to get the opponents keycard 
 into there gas chamber and CO-OP where online you work together to take out the enemies.
  
  So overall this game is excelent with plenty of replay value in the extra games and a brilliant 
 single player as well means if you've got a good PC this is an essential purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is a follow up to the ever famous Half Life game, and it totally revolutionizes the 
 gaming experience.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is simply awesome, providing a very addictive experience. The environment changes 
 from time to time so players won't be bored. There a lot of weapons to choose from including the 
 all new gravity gun. There are new monsters / soldiers including some previous memorable ones. 
 The level design is amazing and the physics are almost close to real life. If thats not enough...
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are jaw dropping, most people say that the graphics engine of Half-Life 2 is better 
 or in competetion with the Doom 3 engine. Well, they certainly got this right. In my opinioin, 
 the graphics of Half Life 2 can be more fun to watch then doom 3.. the reason is that Doom 3 has 
 dark environments through out the game and there are less sight seeing and envionments. So if your 
 competing the graphics of Half Life 2 with doom 3, Half Life 2 Definatley has the better material.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Even though Gordon Freeman is a mute.. but the voice acting of other chatacters are great, the 
 sound effects are also very decent. The background musics are nice.
  
  Value:
  
  You can play Half Life 2 over and over again, becasue i am. If the single player is over you can 
 still play the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roni511
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, here was my experience with Half Life 2:
  
  Amazing, shocking, frustrating, annoying, absolutely awesome.
  
  Sounds contradictory, so here 
 is my write up:
  
  Rough start to Half Life 2. Frustrating Driver problems and overclocking results just about ground 
 it to a halt. That is the frustrating part. However, once I had it in full swing, it was a fantastic 
 gaming experience!
  
  The lighting and graphics are still competitive with any on the market, and the physics engine 
 is still unparalleled. The gameplay is great, and the weapons are very creative. The story is immersive, 
 and you get a fantastic sense of character. I honestly think if this game was a made into a movie, 
 it would be up for an academy award! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Znuggles
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  As the follow-up to one of the best first-person shooters of all time, Half-Life 2 delivers the 
 goods, and then some. Some years after the events of the first game, our hero Gordon Freeman finds 
 himself on a train, getting a cryptic message from the infamous G-Man before arriving at City 17. 
 Aliens have taken over the world, and City 17 is basically just a concentration camp for humans. 
 Of course, Freeman wants none of this, and soon enough the feces hits the fan.
  
  You guide Freeman through several different levels - from the survival horror-inspired Ravenholm 
 to the squad-based urban warfare of City 17, and lots of other interesting areas. There are also 
 a couple of vehicle levels, first a hovercraft, then a buggy. The gameplay is fast-paced and tense, 
 and there are some seriously cool set-pieces here and there.
  
  Graphically, Half-Life 2 is stunning. The visuals might not have quite the same impact as the original 
 Half-Life did back in the day, simply because gamers had already been wowed by games like Far Cry 
 when Half-Life 2 was released, but it's still a remarkable achievement. If you need an excuse to 
 replace that five year old PC, this is it. Level design, lighting, effects, animation (facial animation 
 in particular) - it's all superb.
  
  Fans of Half-Life will recognise some of the sound effects and music, but most of the sound in 
 Half-Life 2 is new. I particularly enjoyed the new muffled screams from the zombies. The voice 
 acting, featuring actors like Lou Gossett Jr. and Michelle Forbes, is excellent.
  
  As in the original Half-Life, after the game starts, there are short load times at certain points, 
 though they're not quite as short as in the original. This breaks up some tense moments at times, 
 though it's not a major problem. The squad members you get to command seem to be rather on the 
 bad side of dumb, and can sometimes get in your way. Again, not a major problem, but it could at 
 times be a bit annoying.
  
  Despite these few nitpicks, I greatly enjoyed Half-Life 2. Personally, I've never been very good 
 at action games, but I do enjoy playing them from time to time, so I was glad that the difficulty 
 was manageable. So even if you're a novice to first-person shooters, Half-Life 2 comes highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiz038
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is possibly THE best game I have ever played. If you played the first Half-Life then 
 you will have a way better time playing this masterpiece. The gameplay is perfectly balanced between 
 the shooting and the storytelling. The graphics are fantastic, and might be the best looking game 
 ever. The voiceovers are just plain awesome like Alyx voice which is very well acted. Bottom line, 
 buy this game, but make sure your computer can play it first*cough*only flaw*cough*. And for the 
 love of God DO NOT BUY the Xbox version, because the graphics are way toned down and welll, it 
 just looks plain ugly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARRE4HL2H2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a great game, solid single player, low system req, awesome multiplayer, counter-strike 
 source free, free mods... This is great.
  
  Graphics: 11
  ... OH... MY... CHEESE!
  comparable to none of its time, and few of the current time. A year later, this game is still the 
 pinacle of gaming graphics.
  
  Sound: 10
  First time i heard the shotgun i took cover...
  
  Value: 10
  40 bucks for a masterpeice.
 
  
  RT: 10
  awesome
  
  Gameplay: 10
  single player is awesome, multiplayer is great. This is gaming at its finest.
  
  doesnt compare 
 to anything else ever... this game will truely go down in gaming history as one of the best games 
 to ever hit the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mytharis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  At first look, Halflife 2 may seem like a jumble of physics and graphics, a new shooter like any 
 other. 
  
  You couldn't be more wrong.
  
  Halfllife 2 continues in the spirit of the original, with clever gameplay aspects, simple puzzles, 
 and a captivating storyline. But not only this, it improves on almost every aspect of the original. 
 There are controllable vehicles, huge open maps, and, yes, the gravity gun. Some parts of gameplay 
 are unquestionably unique, such as setting up turrets to repel against a combine attack, and controlling 
 ant lions by using pheromones. 
  
  The graphics, sound, and physics are each in their own way great, everything works together to 
 make a great shooter technically.
  
  In short, it's infectious, clever, and the best shooter to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics of this game are absolutely stunning, and the story is great, the over all 
 game play is just ok. For some reason I expected more out of this game after all of these years 
 of waiting. I was very disappointed by the lack luster, very scripted, game play. I found that 
 I really enjoyed the previous game much better than this one. I really dislike the scripting of 
 the game that forced you to go exactly where it needed you to go at every moment. With other games 
 such as Farcry out, one would have hoped that Valve would opted for a bit more opened endedness 
 to their otherwise small maps. As a single player game this game is not very good. I like a lot 
 of the concepts they have, and I really enjoyed the grav gun, but like I said, the lack luster 
 game play, the limited freedom, and scripting just ruined it for me. I guess I was spoiled by Farcry 
 and set my expectations to high for Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Everybody knows about the first half life, that was the game that really brought fps on the map. 
 The game had superb graphics for its time and the story was great. Then there were a lot of expansions 
 available, and the engine was used in many other games. Half Life 2 does the exact same thing as 
 its predecessor, it has beautiful graphics, a superb story and comes with a free multiplayer game 
 called HL 2 Deathmatch. The story is long but very good and the new gravity gun is a lot of fun 
 to play with in both offline and online gameplay. Just think about the fun when lifting a chair 
 and than blasting it at an unsuspecting enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  Pros: The long awaited sequel to maybe the best shooter ever. The game that started the story driven 
 Shooters; Half-Life. HL2 had a beautifull graphics engine (SOURCE) and the story is very entertaining; 
 Alyx was one of my favorite characters ever! The conversations between characters where very well 
 scripted, and the voice acting was great! The physics really bring this game to life, and those 
 tripods where just cool to look at. HL2's weapon arsenal was even better than before and the gravity 
 gun was a lot of fun to play with! 
  
  Cons: Most of the freedom from part 1 was gone, you just have to walk to the only possible direction. 
 That takes away the fun exploration of the levels. The beginning and end of the game are just weird. 
 And the important thing: Alyx was not enough in the game! (thankfully she a lot more at your side 
 in the add-on 'Half-Life 2: Episode One'! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperHero687
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The addition of gravity control opens up a wide range of solutions to the challenges you face, 
 adding even more to the immersive quality of the game. It feels like you're right in the middle 
 of an epic sci-fi movie, without feeling to linear or scripted, which is no mean feat. I find it 
 hard to believe anyone could not enjoy this game.
  
  The game introduces you slowly to its mechanics, gradually expanding to give you access to more 
 powerful weapons and the all important gravity gun. Your ammunition is limited enough to make simple 
 run and spray tactics too costly, but spaces out ammo dumps and resupply points at just the right 
 intervals, and you can always just throw a sink at someone. Before you know it, you're halfway 
 through the game, circle strafing and double blasting with your shotgun like you've been doing 
 it your whole life.
  
  On top of that, the huge range of multi-player and other mods availible through Steam gives HL2 
 tons of replay value. Check out Kung Fu Soccer for an example of what I mean.
  
  Buy the game, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is as I'm sure you know the follow up to the original Half Life which was one of the 
 best FPS's of all time. So how did the sequel match up, the awnser is it met and exceeded any and 
 all expectations. The games graphics, textures and lighting are unmatched by any other to date. 
 It delivers a great storyline, mix of weapons, vehicles, and enemies to keep you interested throughout 
 the whole game.
  
  Along with the games great fast paced single player missions, come with a very respectful multiplayer 
 game HL2 Death Match which is a standard FPS death match and works great on-line. In addition to 
 the it comes with Counter Strike Source which is on of the best on-line multiplayer game available, 
 and if that was not enough you can play through a tech demo that shows off the wonderful technology 
 of HDR (High Dynamic Range lighting) in Half Life Lost Coast. All this is possible by way of Steam. 
 Valve's new Internet based server in which you can download and install all of these which if you 
 buy Half Life 2 they are all FREE! 
  
  So what are you waiting for go and get this now, it is a top 5 game of all time and you should 
 have this in your collection for sure.
  
  P. S. : The game is a system hog so be sure to have all the latest hardware and drivers if you want 
 to play this game the way it's meant to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchineseboy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the greatest games ever. the story goes well and the graphics are superb. even 
 though i havent beaten it yet because my dad kept deleting it but its worth playing over and over. 
 the story in this game doesnt stop it jus keeps on going. this game is fun because you also get 
 you control bugs which are like you **** lol. but even though it cost me lots of money it was worth 
 it. you also get cs source for free. and cs source is great just for yuour information. there is 
 alot to say aobut this game but i have little time. so yeah i reccommend this game one of the greatest 
 in shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome This is just great it has awosme single player and a multi player that will 
 keep u comin. The single player can last a good fps player from around 8 to 12 hours depending 
 on how good u are with the weapons. Speaking of weapons the gravity gun in this game is freakin 
 awsome throwing explosive cans at ur enemies is just sumthing amazing to look at speaking that 
 the graphics in this gamne are stunning The single player is a bunch of fun and the multi player 
 will keep u playing this game for a while this is one of my fav games of all times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  this game does exactly what a sequel is supposed to do great new maps levels missions weapons..... ect. 
 but it dosent change tha real game it kept the stuff that everybody loved it also adds some playable 
 vehicles such as a very fast buggy thingdont sit there and think if you should buy it if you are 
 a half life or a counter strike fan you must buy this game NOW!!!!! one of the bad things about 
 this game though is some of the vehicles are a bit overpowering taking anywhere from 4-12 rockets 
 to blow it up. another is some of the sequences are sortof predictable where the enemies are and 
 they are a bit easy to kill But dont let that distract you this is a great and awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great value. Not just for the game itself, but the whole package. Once you gain 
 access to the Steam website, you obtain the original Half-Life, the multi-player games, and the 
 Lost Coast video stress test. That stress test is a great thing to have if you are new to gaming 
 and the technology it takes to run it.
  I am pretty much something less than an amateur at gaming, but if you like shooters, you have to 
 play this. I am truly looking forward to future releases. 
  The graphics are truly spectacular. As I was playing, I couldn't wait to see what was next. The 
 range of weapons in the game give you several options in strategy. The characters in the game are 
 great in the cut-scenes and will be easy to remember in future releases. Health and ammunition 
 packs are there when you need them, however, you better take the time to look around after you 
 clear an area or you may miss them. The A. I. and the creatures are fantastic, and are a royal pain 
 in the ass as they should be. The only thing I did not care for were the long load times between 
 check points and levels. A minor inconvenience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnubisPrime
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I had waited to get HL2 until the price had dropped to a more reasonable level. It was well worth 
 the wait. The only grip I have with the game is with the Steam system because when I bought the 
 game I only had dial-up Internet service and it took over 20 hours to update the game to the point 
 I could play and that was extremely frustrating. I have since gotten dsl service and the updates 
 now take no time at all.
  The game was very fast paced and was constantly challenging me to solve the numerous obstacles 
 that are thrown in your path as well as enemies who seemed to anticipate your every thought and 
 move. 
  For those who like FPS I would recommend this game very highly and can't wait myself for the next 
 installment to come out, which I hear is in the not to distant future. Maybe this time I will not 
 wait for it to go into the bargain bin and will spring for the opening day price because I don't 
 know if I can wait to continue the adventures of Gordon Freeman and crew. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoldySTD
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game has definately lived up to the expectations of everyone and 
 is a excellent sewuel. The graphics are simply amazing and completely dominate. The new weapons 
 are nice, especialy the way you have more manuverability with the rocket launcher. This game has 
 some of the most fun ragdoll physics yet and are extremely fun to play with especialy in gary's 
 mod witch is the greatest mod ever. The new threat the combine have realy superb ai and it sometimes 
 feel like you're playing with an actual person. So sadly there are no snarks. Let us have a moment 
 for the  so the bowgun looks realy cool with heated 
 tips when you fire. Overall, this game is simply one that cannot be missed, doing so will result 
 in death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndaFiya
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I can't even begin to describe how amazing the physics are in this game: they have a realistic 
 sense of gravity, weight, and even momentum. (When throwing stuff.) It's pretty exciting to know 
 that we've reached a point in videogames where the objects and world around us (as in graphics) 
 make sense, but we still have yet to make a game thats perfect using this. (And note the word perfect, 
 because this game is pretty great, but still not perfect.) For example, this game has the amazing 
 physics, but is no where near the amazing bump-map textures, general effects, and lighting as say 
 Doom 3 or FEAR. The textures in this game aren't really that detailed, and are rather bland and 
 unattractive. Now i know that might have been meant to rub in the mood of the cities in the game, 
 but thats no excuse to lack detail. But on to the gameplay.
  
  The real problem with singleplayer is that they will give you a fun objective, and then bang the 
 idea of it into the wall for an hour, and maybe over. For example, i have to escape the police 
 (combine) through countless identical situations with identical looking areas. Not to mention that 
 i only have one gun, which is a weak pistol. Once you finally get out of that chapter, you'd think 
 that they'd change the area or location, but instead your in the same area, but they've changed 
 one minute detail, like putting you in a boat. But then they do the exact same thing and repeat 
 the scenarios over and over. So by now you've already determined that this game has no replay value, 
 and after about 4 chapters, no play value. But, there is one thing that makes this game worth 50 
 bucks, and its a free mod; Garry's Mod.
  
  In Garry's mod, you can explore the limits of the physics and spend countless hours just experimenting. 
 Basically you are put into an area, and you have all sorts of utilities to play god. The possibilities 
 are endless. You can create a scenario where you need to throw cars at people, or reenact The Bible. 
 Whatever you want. This mod alone makes this game worth 50 bucks, but unfortunately i'm reviewing 
 Half-Life 2 itself, so this game cannot benefit my view on this game.
  
  About the game itself, definetly buy it, no matter how much money it is, because Garrys Mod is 
 worth 200 dollars, so you're getting a pretty good deal. But if all you're looking for is a singleplayer 
 experience, you can ignore this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 had plenty of hype behind it while it was in the making and it certainly makes up for 
 it when you play the game.
  
  The game's graphics are the first phenomenon. You begin the game getting an immediate shock at 
 the detail of The G Man's face. If your CPU speed is fairly good then you'll be able to get the 
 full amazing experience of Valve's new graphics engine. Part of the game you will no doubt spend 
 gawking at the excellent detail of the lands and objects.
  
  The gameplay itself is far better than the original. The game now does not leave you in seemingly 
 endless pipeways full of repeatative aliens. The game now has a sense of fore-thought and strategy 
 to it. Objects, monsters and npc's are far more interactive and you'll often need to interact with 
 them in some way to pass traps or other such.
  The game puts a keen eye into variety. You'll find as you go through the game that both scenery, 
 weapons, monsters and battle styles will change. Valve will generally give you an interesting new 
 weapon and give you a few maps or a chapter to take it on a joy ride. Rather than a seemingly endless 
 dungeon you'll now have alot more plot interferance and both npc's and everything around you will 
 change as you go through the based on Gordon's exploits.
  
  In my opinion, the plot was quite good. Not everything is explained to you and you may find yourself 
 going through the game with only half an idea of whats going on though the entire theme of the 
 plot intertwines with the game very nicely.
  
  Half Life 2 is a constantly moving story that the player will inevitably get involved in (if they 
 have a fast CPU and graphics card) as their own adventure with Gordon. The end result is a classic 
 sequel that even non-shoot-em-up fans will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is great it has amazing facial detail and expressions. The story wouldnt win much 
 in originality but its still a solid title. I wish you could download an upgrade so it would look 
 like the full HDR and doesnt have any errors in it. More game should be like this and that is 
 why I added it to my collection.
  Well it doesnt really have any open environments just like the original but the maps are massive. 
 On the first try you should have it on easy but it still pretty difficult then too. To me this 
 isnt a game that trys to be good its a game that is good.
  
  You go through fifteen long chapters in the game and if all you do is play it you could have it 
 finished in a weekend. I also like the weapons like the shotgun and the SMG (Submachine gun) . There 
 are many other weapons but I wouldnt want to spoil it for you now would I. So either get it now 
 in a box or online at steam. Dont miss out on this fantastic game.
  Why we dont go to Revingholm my favorite level Im trying other methods to get through it. Also, 
 Im trying to get through it fast, like in under two and a half minuets. Gordon Freeman is back 
 and waiting for you to help him.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy1111
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This is just, a great made game. I aways thought valve is good, company because when you buy one 
 of their games, you get serveral games in one. for 70$, you can get Half life2, Half life1.6, half 
 life6, counter strike1.6, counter strike: source, both DoD's, and all the Half life online things,
 
  now for the actually review, this is defently a game you buy for the singleplayer, half life: deathmatch 
 adn capture the flag are good, but its not that strong of a multyplayer, the singleplayer, though, 
 has some of best gfx ive seen, and THE best physics around, literly everything u can pick up or 
 destroy, and with the gravitygun, u can waste endless hours just picking up and playin with that. 
 
  Pros
  A great single, best physics ive seen, and some of the best gfx, not too demanding either. 
  
 Cons
  Multiplayer, in my eyes, coulda been alittle beter, but the mods that are out their for it, and 
 it comes with counter strike, best online FPS, it can make up for it
  Gameplay-9 greatgameplay, actually scares you, and the only FPS i think that has a great storyline, 
 not a ten because some parts, yes can seem repetitive, but not many, close to none
  
  Graphics-10 Amazing gfx, amazing physics, all to say
  
  sound-9 the sound is great, shift in 
 music can make the parts more scary, not 10 because some of guns coulda been better
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTASHAKE117
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is an immersive and exciting game that puts you into the action from the very begining. 
 In this game you are Gordon Freeman, a scientist, that has just arrived at City 17 before the revolution 
 against those in charge of the city fully takes place. In this game you will encounter numerous 
 enemies that use intelligent A. I. to track you down and take you out. The game has some of the 
 best graphics, or visuals as some like to say, that I have ever seen. The game itself is packed 
 full of rip roaring action that will have you on the edge of your seat. This action includes many 
 a gun fights some of which are taken on open water as you drive your hover boat down an enemy infested 
 canal. This game does have gun fights but it is not just about shooting your enemies you can use 
 various objects around you to, such as exploding barrels and zombie traps, to up your game on the 
 enclosing enemies. The game has an amazing single-player mode the is quite long if you ask me, 
 but the fun doesn't stop there when you purchase the game you also get Half Life 2 deathmatch which 
 lets you test your gravity gun skills against dozens of others from all over. For any PC gamer 
 who hasn't played any good games in a long time check this one out it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawStorm
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much left to say. The graphics are incredible. The physics are unmatched. The gameplay 
 is unique. The technology is state-of-the-art. It is almost impossible to find a flaw with this 
 game. Half-Life 2 is by far and away the greatest FPS of all time and I think that it is the last 
 FPS of the last generation. Lately games like FEAR have been mostly about graphics and AI, but 
 the gameplay is lackluster. With HL2, there is nothing that would leave you even slightly unsatisfied. 
 Sure, the AI isn't as amazing as FEAR, but it is very good and serves its purpose well. The graphics 
 may not have all the amazing effects like advianced dynamic lighting, but the game is made so it 
 looks great even without them. The thing I appreciate most about HL2 is how it can run on the high 
 settings on a mid-range PC and be on the same level graphically as FEAR and Quake 4. This is an 
 amazing accomplishment by Valve and the Source engine by how efficient it is. The story is great 
 and engaging, the character animations are unmatched, and further immerse you in the extremely 
 realistic world that Valve creates. The use of physics as part of the gameplay especially the gravity 
 gun makes HL2 stand apart from other FPS' and is makes the gameplay much more than kill everyone 
 with your gun. The vehicles are a nice touch, and if there is a flaw in the game, its that the 
 jeep mission is a tad bit long. Basically, if you own a PC, and that PC is at most 5 years old, 
 then you owe it to yourself to get this game just to experience what the greatest game of all time 
 feels like.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celticpred_65
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A GREAT GAME. IT IS VERY, VERY FUN, YET VERY HARD. THIS GAME IS HIGHLY ADDICTIVE. MORE 
 THAN HIGHLY ACTUALLY. SUPREMELY ADDICTIVE. IT IS SCARY, CREEPY, ACTION PACKED, AND FUN. NOT ONLY 
 THAT, IT IS PUZZLING, THIS GAME GETS YOUR BRAIN PUMPED. IT IS SO HARD AND PUZZLING, I ACTUALLY 
 NEED CHEATS EVERY NOW AND THEN, SUCH AS THE GRAVITY CHEAT, WHICH MAKES YOU JUMP ALOT HIGHER THAN 
 HOW YOUR SUPPOSED TO. I LOVE THIS GAME. I TOTALLY RECOMMEND IT FOR YOU HALF LIFE LOVERS OUT THERE, 
 SUCH AS, MUA. AND ONCE AGAIN, ANOTHER GAME TO ADD TO THE COLLECTION.
  
  PS: THE ONLY INSTANT CLASSIC OF ALL OF THE HALF LIFE GAMES
  
  (GAMERS OPINION) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaboose111
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  this game was sweet just addictive never repetative which is great and the graphics were beatiful 
 i must say worst part of game though and it was still great was RAVENHOLM great but not the level 
 for me guns were awesome i love having the gribblies (ant lions) as ur friends once u get the bugbait 
 so fun. the vehicles were kinda hard but they got easy after bout ten minutes other than that the 
 game works well kinda long load screens but not unbeariable. great and superb game all in all. 
 ok and now i just write letters to take up space and there we go i believe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2:
  
  By,
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  A long awaited FPS after the release of Half-Life 7 years back brings a gaming revolution and is 
 the best FPS ever made till date. It is a game full of action and adventure mixed in a unique way 
 that no company other than VALVE could make it. A fabulous interactivity makes the game more fun 
 to play. In this game youll go through fear, curiosity, surprises, relief & last but not the least 
 JOY !! 
  So talking about the story of HL-2 it is written by the same writer (Marc Laidlaw) of the latter 
 part i. e. Half-Life. For those who enjoyed HL with surely enjoy this sequel.
  You resume the role of Gordon Freeman, our Protagonist, the trainee scientist who was at the centre 
 of events at the Black Mesa Facility. Youve accepted the offer of G-Man & seem to have been transported 
 to a place called City 17. And it goes on.. well you play the game because I dont want any more 
 spoilers in my review! And the good thing is that you wont be going to XEN, now thats a relief!!
 
  
  Gameplay:-
  
  Half-Life 2 tests your physics IQ. During the game, youll need to surmount various challenges 
 based on the principles of physics, such as a pulley based puzzle, the buoyancy puzzle and loads 
 more. The game employs the HAVOC physics engine, as the result of which, the simulations by HL-2 
 are believable and very impressive. 
  What makes Hl-2 the most amazing virtual experience yet is the beauty of the world it creates. 
 All objects in HL-2 are made up of materials, with each having its own physical properties. For 
 example, objects made of wood look like wood, break like wood and float like woodto be precise 
 behave like wood when you interact with them. Another example is that if several objects are thrown 
 in water, the ones denser than water sink while the others float. This level of detail is just 
 simply amazing.
  
  The gravity gun is rally fun to play with and especially the ZERO gravity gun which you get at 
 the end of the game .. Its kool!! The weapons are cool and guess what you can even drive a buggy 
 in the later part of the game.
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The graphics are amazing even for older cards. The Source engine is showed off to an incredible 
 extent in Half-Life 2 and the main characters border on reality. The graphics are stunning, the 
 people look real even there facial expressions. The world looks real. This level of detail is just 
 superb. Alyx, your friend, looks really good ;)
  
  Sound:-
  
  The amazing sound makes the game even more interesting. The music is just superb!! The voice acting 
 is flawless. 
  
  Multiplayer:-
  
  The famous Counter-Strike: Source has become a famous multiplayer but yes few people like CS: Condition 
 Zero more than Source. well its their taste. Being frank the game is real good just like the 
 HL2. 
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  Well yes the game loading takes time. but remember the graphics, sound & Gameplay of this game?? 
 So well you should have some patience to play this game.. you have it dont- you?? And a Sad 
 News for Ps-2 gamers, as they cant play such an amazing game! : (
  No body till date could give a proper story of what is happening in Half-Life series for more discussion 
 please post comments on the following link- 
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=24213271&user=neerajkumar_4
 
  I heard that the Aftermath expansion pack will now be the first in a series of episodic content. 
 Isnt that cool??? Hope they dont take longer time for releasing the games.
  
  Once I thought if this story happens for REAL wont it be fun?????. actually its better in the 
 game right?? So have fun to the maximum extent with this game because it cant happen for real 
 or can it??? ;)
  
  Graphics -10/10
  
  Sound-10/10
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  
  Story-Line-10/10
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  Overall-10/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coegols
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The grafix were outstanding, even for older cards. The sound couldnt have been better. Voice acting 
 was flawless. 
  This game get your adrenaline pumping. Some stages are action packed, you are unloading every bullet 
 in every gun into your enemies. One stage is scarier than all of Doom3 put together. And finally, 
 the enjoyment of watching and tossing ragdolls will always make me come back to do that.
  
  I also couldnt get enough storyline. Im really excited about the expansion coming out. If you thought 
 Half-Life had a twisted story, this one is crazier. You always want to find out more.
  BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS_Owner
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game that has been made in years. i can not believe that someone could rate this 
 game 6.1. this game is the best game i have ever played. no question. i recommend it to anyone 
 who loves a great sci-fi story line with great weapons, game play, enemies, and physics. this game 
 has revolutionized FPS. If you get half life 2 you can also get a be-jesus amount of mods and stuff. 
 this game will have you playing until its done. this has got to be just the best game in history. 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is as good as it gets for Valve at the moment it is a awsome game and the physics and 
 engien are amazeing. However i will start this review with the let downs, First lack of change 
 from half life 1
  HL1 HF2
  - soldiers = combine (over watch)
  -Aliens = Bugs
  -Security gards = The soldiers who fight with you (later you get a squad)
  -Head crabs = Better 
 looking and 3 forms of head crabs
  -4 stages of zombies = 3 stages of zombies (more diversity)
  
  this makes the game feel almost 
 the same but then you get the uber good graphics and you guessed it the Gravity gun which in many 
 ways eliminates the need for weapons such as all of Razorhole or whatever the town is called or 
 in Nova prospect. The bug bait also helps alot in Nova prospect, the squad you get in anti citizen 
 one and the help in the citidel also halts the need for weapons. The Ai are extreamly easy to kill 
 even in hard mode because of the help you get with these 3 new addons. The wepon selection is slim 
 compared to HL1 with opposing force and Blue shift in mind. However the wepons are all fun to use. 
 HF2 comes with HL2 Death match which is online only team and deathmatch and Counter Strike Source 
 wich is fun but needs some more patches (only 2 out of the 4 classic CS models to play as per side) . 
 Thses two programs offerd though steam make this game a killer deal. In the end i found HL2 to 
 be a great time and i cant wait for HL2 Aftermath and this is a shout out to Gman keep doing your 
 thing what ever it is (misteriously showing up and appering on tvs)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masternij
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  half-life 2 is the best first person shooter i have ever played it is just amazing. the graphics 
 are just stunning with real life-like enviroments from pretty lakes to dark prison cells. the npcs 
 are very human like with thier facial expressions provided by the source engine. heck you even 
 get counter-strike source with it and half-life 2 deathmatch. and theres physics so you can almost 
 pick up any object and throw it around. well the game play is good with lots of weapons to choose 
 from such as the old classic crowbar, shotgun, machine gun, pulse rifle (my favourite) , bug  
 launcher, grenades and you can carry them all at once not like those games were you can only carry 
 two weapons at a time. the only bad thing about half-life two is that the enemies are a bit too 
 eay to defeat. you could take out almost any enemy with a round or two even on hard. the single 
 player will take about at least 20 hours to complete well the first time playing it anyway. and 
 you'll sure be long hours on counter-strike source. so if you still haven't got half-life 2 yet 
 get it now. oh i'm not asking thats an order!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_werry_man
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequel to Half-life which was the best FPS i played in my life. Half-life 2 is great, 
 and it also has the best graphics in a game i've ever seen. It has great sound, good gameplay and 
 a gravity gun. What more could you want? The weapons in the game are really cool, you actually 
 feel that you are shooting something, because of the game's great physics. Except i feel there 
 is a weapon missing, you know the one in the first half-life that you got in the end? I forget 
 the name though.......
  
  I also wish this game had some multiplayer based on the single-player, other than CSS. 
  
  
 Overall a great game, and you simply must own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chhris
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  First off the graphics were just great, really good water graphics and the detail in the walls 
 and buildings is just amazing. I liked all the little puzzles and things in the game, it really 
 changed the game from just being a run and gun FPS. Pretty interesting weapons, you got your normal 
 pretty much standard FPS weapons like the pistol, shotgun and machine gun. But then get you other 
 ones like the crossbow, gravity gun and pulsar rife. Now the rife has quite an interesting special 
 secondary fire, which fires a energy orb which when when hits an enemy completely disintegrates 
 them, btw it looks reall cool too. There are only 2 vehicles in the game... but! they are quite 
 fun to drive especially the car, can't just get enough of running over them bugs. This game just 
 has a lot of little other stuff that makes it so fun to play like, being able to pick up stuff 
 and just move it around or throw it at people, controlling the bugs to do your bidding, controlling 
 the crane to smash shipping containers into combine and a whole lot of other stuff just like that! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtuson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Like many original HL fans I was drawn by the amazing look into HL2 by the tech demos and E3 presentation 
 that would blow us away. Then there was the infamous delay and leaked beta (which Im glad I never 
 touched) . But when the game was finally released I was amazed. The storytelling mixed in with rich 
 characters in a living world of real-life physics and amazing graphics delivered a solid game. 
 
  
  The interaction of physics gives you interesting options of completing your tasks, and the gravity 
 fun is a delight. The game looks amazing and carries an atmosphere that you will connect with. 
 The characters are intriguing and by the end of the game you will love taking place in the uprising 
 against the combine. 
  
  But this game carries another reason for purchase. Its powerful physics engine is used in the 
 popular Garys Mod and the port of the most popular online game CS is included and makes this game 
 worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raylen12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life revolutionized first-person shooting, so it is unsurprising that Half-Life 2 had a lot 
 expected of it. Could any game overcome the greatness of Half-Life 2s predecessor? Amazingly, 
 Half-Life 2 pulled it off, with a wicked combination of features that created an immersive, wild, 
 intriguing, and fun ride. 
  
  One thing Valve, the developer, often boasts about is the games physics. The Source engine creates 
 an awe-inspiring interactiveness within the game world  boxes tumble realistically, corpses spin 
 through the air from explosions, et cetera. In Half-Life 2, you receive a weapon never before seen 
 in any game before it  the Gravity Gun. With this weapon, you can pick up items, fire them at 
 enemies, build obstacles, and generally interact with the environment, which pretty much milks 
 the physics engine for all its worth.
  
  Another thing the developers pride themselves upon is the story. In Half-Life 2, you play as Gordon 
 Freeman, a theoretical physicist with an MIT education. He also has a surprising skill with firearms. 
 You never leave his view  the entire game takes place from Gordons perspective.
  
  The game begins when you pull into a train station in the post-apocalyptic future. The human race 
 has been enslaved by a galaxy-spanning superpower, the Combine, and you have been sent in since 
 your disappearance ten-or-so years ago to defeat it by a mysterious being calling himself the G-Man. 
 The game takes you through 10+ levels, ranging from a zombie-overrun mining town to a war-stricken 
 city, and lasts 12-14 hours.
  
  The graphics are quite amazing, if you have a good enough computer. The digital actors have incredibly 
 realistic faces and animations, and the voice-acting is excellent. The AI in Half-Life 2 is varied 
 and fits; the Combine soldiers attack, flank, and retreat after taking losses; zombies slowly advance 
 without stopping; metropolice will call in reinforcements and deploy mechanical allies. Everything 
 looks, feels, and fits great.
  
  Half-Life 2 comes with two multiplayer games, Half-Life 2: Deathmatch and Counter-Strike: Source. 
 In HL2: DM, the gravity gun is incredibly over-powered and players rarely use anything else. In 
 CS: S, you will often encounter leet-speakers, spammers, and general idiots.
  
  Including some aspects of the multiplayer, Half-Life 2 is not without its problems. There are quite 
 a few technical issues, including crashing, and the Steam program that comes with the game (which 
 requires the Internet, and you cant play without it) seems to have made these even more common.
 
  
  Other than that, Half-Life 2 is an excellent game, and deserves a slice of any first-person shooter 
 fans hard drive. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The story is great, the graphics are phenominal, the gameplay is just unbeatable by any other FPS. 
 The amount of ways you can play this game and number of things you can do, to shape your own mission 
 is just fantastic. I finished half life 1 once and this game over 6 times, was totally worth my 
 time. Counter Strike: Source mod is awesome for those 1.5, 1.6 or condition zero fans. Half life 
 2 is by far the best shooter yet. Make sure if you get this game, have a decent machine for the 
 effect of the game performance. 9.9 out of 10. Half life 2 totally rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 an fps that provides an almost realistic gameplay experience. You must not only use 
 fire power and force but you must use your thinking ability in order to solve puzzles throughout 
 the game! The story line is a little hard to understand if you haven't played the 1st half life 
 but it is fun still the same. 
  I have never seen a more realistic game engine. Once playing you may think that you are watching 
 a movie on TV at times. Not only do the graphics look good but the characters and everything around 
 you interacts with what ever you do! The enemies are smarter and work together to attempt to take 
 you down. 
  The game is also very long as it take alot of time to complete the levels of the game. Each level 
 unreals more and more of the story and you may even incounter a unpredicted twist or turn here 
 and there. I have barely any complaints against the game as I say it is definitly one of the greatest 
 and most realistic game ever made!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MambaJack
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  I tend to get tired of fawning reviews of many FPS titles. Many go on about the graphics, the intelligent 
 AI, the world physics etc. and the reason I get bored of this is that most of these titles, while 
 good.... maybe adequate, they don't really stand out from the pack. HL2 does and it does so dramatically.
 
  
  The tired gamers term, "immersiveness" is finally fully realized. And it's accomplished not by 
 the cheap "creatures jumping out of a dark shadow tricks but by oftentimes doing things in the 
 scenery that are so surprising that on occasion I found myself lingering in certain areas just 
 to play around with the game environment.
  
  All FPS titles employ a certain amount of puzzle solving/jumping problem situations and in many 
 titles the solution feels arbitrary. In HL2 every single one is perfectly based in real world solutions 
 and each is absolutely logical. I won't give any away but suffice it to say that they all simply 
 require you to be human living on planet earth to solve. That is, the solutions are exactly what 
 you would have to do if you came upon the situation in a real life environ.
  
  I also don't really usually care too much for the story of the game... one reason that I loved Painkiller 
 since it had virtually no story and was just straight ahead inspired running and gunning... but 
 HL2 has an interesting story that makes you really feel that you are a player in a motion picture. 
 
  
  And of course, as they use to say on Second City TV..."things get blowed up real good! The action 
 is exciting ala "Call of Duty" and the weaponry ranges from the basics to the inspired... you have 
 to love that gravity gun.
  
  My only gripe - fairly long load times between scenes. When I played this on my home system, which 
 is decent but not the equal of the newest gaming rigs I assumed it was my machine's relative lack 
 of horsepower that was the reason. Not so. I ventured to a local gaming cafe and played a few levels 
 on a fully tricked out Athalon 64 system complete with NVIDIAs best PCI Express video card and 
 the load times were still annoying.
  
  So - they lose a point for that. Otherwise, this is a brilliant bit of work that like the addictive 
 TV show "24" just makes you want to get the next bit as soon as possible. Come to think of it... I 
 think Jack Bauer would enjoy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The strongest aspect of this game is its graphics. Half-life 2 has the best graphics on any computer 
 game at the time. The characters look so realistic and the environments and locations, such as 
 cities, sewers, and apartment buildings, are highly detailed. The sound effects are great, although 
 the music could have been better. The voice over is superb and among the best i have ever heard. 
 
  
  Half-Life 2 has an original storyline that is a bit confusing and uninspiring. The game is a little 
 repetitive and after driving a boat for 5 hours straight HL2 gets boring. 
  
  Overall i recommend this to anyone who likes fps, and be warned you need a powerful computer to 
 run this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phanth0m
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This is indeed a good looking game, but it has big shoes to fill. Half-Life 2 did just that, from 
 the game play to the story, the team being Half-Life have done it again. A must buy for any hardcore, 
 newbies, or FPS fans. If you enjoy the first game this will definitely keep you happy, and with 
 a new expansion on the way it looks like this game won't be forgotten easily. Another plus is the 
 quality of updates that the game gets frequently from our friends at Valve. This game also has 
 a huge mod following, including the infamous Counter-Strike Source which is a new update to the 
 oldie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentNick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  The opening to Half-Life 2 truly conveys the sense of drama and oppressiveness that you'll feel 
 traversing this game's many environments, and in encountering a number of characters in them. The 
 sense of bewilderment and confusion you'll feel will no doubtedly matter little, as you will become 
 accustomed to that feeling as the story deepens and twists here and there.
  
  City 17 is truly a beautiful haven marred by the presence of the Combine, and you will immediately 
 feel their presence anywhere and everywhere you go. Gameplay is overwhelmingly simple and immersive, 
 following in the footsteps of the original in terms of both dynamics and through the simple experience 
 of an uninterrupted first person adventure through a sci-fi lover's heaven.
  
  Perhaps, however, the new complexity of the story adds to the fact that while the game is in fact 
 outstanding, the many problems the game experienced at launch took something away from the game, 
 and the numerous problems Valve had getting the game out at all (missing its own deadlines) can 
 be felt in the sheer linearity and brevity of the game as a whole. In addition, little is to be 
 had for completing the game, aside from having completed it and getting to see the credits, the 
 familiar closing theme truly a pleasure to anyone with surround sound and a decent subwoofer. Overall, 
 the game is definately a recommend.
  
  The true beauty of Half-Life 2 lies in the possibilities that await you simply by having the Source 
 engine, Half Life 2, and Steam on your computer. Additional titles like Codename: Gordon, Counter-Strike: Source 
 (essentially the Counter Strike we all know, noobies included, but with stunning graphics and better 
 dynamic gameplay) , and Garry's Mod, all work to increase the value of your purchase. The upcoming 
 mod Black Mesa: Source stands to wow gamers with their recreation and redesign of the original title 
 in the Source engine (Half Life: Source was truly pointless) will undecidely bring consumers to 
 buy the game sheerly for the community, as many did for the original title.
  
  Perhaps it is something only I feel, but the original splendor of Half-Life simply isn't there 
 in this title. The game does, indeed, wow the player with incredible scenes of combat, as well 
 as offering an incredible environment and story in which to play, but the original setting and 
 storyline seem more fresh, more believable, and more fun than the newer. It doesn't take anything 
 away from your experience with Half-Life 2, but it leads one to think. Surely Valve will snatch 
 up mods like Black Mesa: Source and release their hard work for us as a finished product that can 
 be thoroughly tested and worked through, and will continue to offer titles such as Day of Defeat: Source 
 and Half-Life 2: Aftermath, but it seems that the game certainly lives up to its reputation at face 
 value, as the sequel to what is possibly the game of the decade.
  
  Worth paying for. Worth uninstalling other games for. Worth replaying. Worth the long wait.
  
 
  I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: storjohan_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  when I bought this game i had already been out for about half a year, and other titles like bf2 
 and f. e. a. r had brought graphics to a whole new level.
  but I still was impressed by the graphics in hl2. textures are good, lighing is good, physics is 
 extremely good. only thing that is not so good as bf2 or fear are shadows.
  
  first thing I really noticed was the amazing physics engine in this game. the source engine have 
 some of the best ragdoll physics to date. nearly every object in this game can be lifted and thrown. 
 hl2 implements the ragdoll physics nicely into the gameplay.
  
  gameplay is a big factor in this game. I loved every minute I spent with this game. it took me 
 about 15-17 hours to finish the first tIme I played through it, and it was a blast!
  the story begins where half life ended and drops you of at "city 17", the first chapter of the 
 journey. city 17 is a product of the compond, wich seems to be the fascist overlords of the hl2 
 world. 
  
  compound soldiers is basicly the enemy you will encounter the most. then we got the facecrabs from 
 the last game. zombies, giant ant-like monsters, giant robot spiders, fighter-jets and lots more.
 
  
  well back to the gameplay.
  
  hl2 is a lot of fun to play and gives you lots of usage for the ragdoll physics.
  for instanse 
 the gravity gunis particulary fun. it gives you the option to pick up almost everything you see 
 and shoot it at enemies. its also critical for some moments in this game, as you need to get hold 
 of stuff that is out of your reach.
  
  hl2 is a fairly long game, as it took me about 15 or so hours to complete it on easy. if you play 
 through it on hard the first time; it will probably take about 20 hours to complete.
  I bought the game of the year edition and I got this games with the pack: cs: source, half life 
 source; hl2 deathmatch and hl2 lost coast.
  the game of the year edition will give you hundreds of hours gameplay and only cost me about 50 
 bucks.
  
  hl2 has got very many good moments and very few bad. only thing I can complain about is: some chapters 
 are to long and linear and you will need a dsl line as you have to run this game through steam.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Davila89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else 
 to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have 
 nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to 
 say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inkl1ng
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That's pretty much the first thing that comes to mind when playing HL2. It is an incredible 
 game, but it does have it's bad parts.
  
  Pros: Great Gameplay, graphics, sound, pretty much wins everything technical, and is a great engine 
 for Third Party games on Steam
  
  Cons: Somewhat vague storyline, and not enough playing time without five-minute LOADING screens. 
 Also, you must install Steam to play, a very VERY annoying program. But other than that, it's pretty 
 good.
  
  Overall, I would reccomend it to Half-Life fans, and people who can spring for $50 or more. If 
 you don't like games which require you to "get into character", then this is not for you.
  
  Overall: 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flangdango
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  amazing game SP is not very long but a great adventure start to end (wish ending was better) memroble 
 characters wepons that feel like your shooting a wepon and if thats not enough you have tons of 
 mods (garys mod, CSS, DODS, and tons more.) which are loads of fun CSS that should be enough to make 
 you buy this game but if it isnt what i said before might and with these mods this game is sure 
 to brin hours and hours of enjoyment you could never want anything more from a game and that is 
 why half life2 if a game that should be in any gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  I have no wordson this game!
  
  Start:
  
  For the start developers stick to the first part start. This made us to remember about Half-Life 
 again, and wake us for new battle with evil, but with new efforts!
  
  Yeah that is right with new efforts! 
  
  First of all lets start with new developed engine. 
 Just brilliant! Allows to work on it with high pottensial, which same was done by Valve developers. 
 They have created the best game ever!
  
  Graphics of the game so immpresive and bold. Sound also in good place. this two aspect makes the 
 game more realistic and playable. Environment impacts or impacts to the environment is highly created 
 and also add its own realism to the game.
  
  OK, lets talk about AI in the game. Well, i don't know have you paid attention how you enemies 
 (GO) soldiers behave when you come cose to them or when they saw you, and during shooting. We have 
 hever seen such a things before, have we? This is all thanks to new engine. As we see each year 
 games became more complicated. in wich way I will say that: in last year in first person shooters 
 we just could "drive/lead" our hero-person, but now at the games you can use other type of transport, 
 which game more colorfull not boring. 
  
  Also Each year at the games we ccan impact to the environment in more aspects rather in old games. 
 This shows intensive and high development works in game industry. 
  
  I would say Half-Life 2 was the first game which inculded all this aspects in it. Thats why I would 
 say this is the best game ever made!!!
  
  Let see, when we will say words "so far" after such a words. If do you jknow what I mean!
  
 
  I wish to you and myself to say that word "so far" at each quarter, by seening new impressive 
 games.
  
  I should go to continue my game!! 
  
  ~Enjoy yours!~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilso326
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I never had a chance to play this game, even with all its awards and attention because I was too 
 busy playing Doom 3 and Farcry. I finally got this game, even a year after its release. Since it 
 was released back then I won't compare it to more recent FPS games like Fear and Quake 4.
  
  First, I'd like to talk about the good parts of the game. The game's engine is good, the lighting 
 and animation blows away all other FPS games of its time. The physics are also very good, and they 
 allow you to not only shoot and push around almost everything, you can pick up objects and throw 
 them around as well. Some time in the game you are given a cool gravity gun, which allows you to 
 pick up items and enemies and throw them.
  
  The sound is good in most parts but really bad in others. The voice acting is very good, and so 
 are the FX sounds, like the ricochet and explosion sounds as well as objects landing and falling. 
 The HEV suit voice is still there, and it gets annoying how it goes "Warning: Vital signs fading" 
 or something like that in a very annoying monotonous voice. The weapons sounds are mostly bad and 
 sound very weak. The pistol just doesn't sound anything like a firearm. The smg sounds scratchy. 
 The rest of the weapons just sound strange and not anything like how they should have sounded. 
 Why didn't they just use the Half Life 1 sounds? They were great even sounding even though they 
 were a little bit staticy because of the lower quality. The music is good and varies from each 
 track, and it is strange how they play the music for only a short amount of time. It just seems 
 strange when you are crowbarring a guy, and this fast paced music starts but then it dies down 
 once you start attacking the next guy. The voice acting is very good, but for some reason the character 
 you play as, Gordon Freeman, never says a word. He doesn't even grunt when he gets hurt like the 
 Doom-guy.
  
  The graphics are good even for the standards of this year. The lighting effects are nice, and the 
 engine can do many amazing looking effects. The models are all very high poly, they look much better 
 than the doom 3 models. Some of the texturing looks blande though, like the texturing for some 
 of the walls. 
  
  In half life 2, the story is that now the world has been taken over by a force known as the "Combine", 
 who are a bunch of Nazis who want to change the ways humans are by locking them up and teaching 
 them certain things, and killing those who don't obey. You don't learn much about the plot because 
 there are no cinematics, though there is a lot of dialogue in the game and many interesting characters 
 you get to meet.
  
  The gameplay is where Valve failed at creating a good game. There is hardly any fighting at all. 
 Even when you do have combat, you spend most of the game using wimpy weapons, like the pistol, 
 the smg or the crowbar (which has become lame now because its so weak and sounds so quiet) , and 
 most of your enemies are weak puny enemies like headcrabs, barnacles, hoppers (intelligent mines 
 than can hop around) manhacks, and small bugs. Only once in a while will you kill a large enemy. 
 You do get to fight some combine soldiers, but they are so weak and stupid and carry only pistols 
 and SMGs (and only carry a few bullets when you pick up their weapons) it doesn't make any sense 
 how they could take over the whole world. The way you can interact with the environment is just 
 bad for the AI, because you can easily set up obstacles for them to get stuck in. Sometimes you 
 can just toss a barrel at a doorway and watch a squad of combines get stuck behind it, then shoot 
 the barrel and blow them all up. Sometimes you will move an object and a teammate will get stuck 
 in it. Sometimes your teammates will push items to corner you or just try to surround you and corner 
 you to stop you from getting out. It just gets annoying.
  
  The AI is overall terrible. The combine don't seem so stupid because they have guns, but in the 
 tight environments and with all the obstacles, it gets pretty funny to see them get stuck behind 
 a pole or a rock and try to walk through it. You also get some teammates in some parts of the game, 
 but they are just as retarded as your enemies. They are all given SMGs and have infinite ammunition 
 and health it seems, so when they do find enemies they overpower and outnumber them easily.
  
  You have to be very careful with your ammo, since you are given very little ammunition lying 
 around. In most firefights, you have only 1 spare clip for each gun, and after you only have a 
 handful of bullets for one or two of your guns. This gets annoying because the guns are so innacurate 
 (but fast) you have to fire them all slowly and make sure every shot hits. If you are a Doom or 
 Halo fan you cannot go trigger happy because you will have no ammo at all and will have to crowbar 
 your way through the whole game. The lack of ammo gets annoying because you have to scrounge through 
 every corpse and try to use your crowbar as often as you can and smash every box looking for ammo. 
 
  
  The thing that makes Half Life's gameplay unique is that there is puzzle solving. The puzzle solving 
 is pretty simple most of the time, but some are hard and frustrating and not any fun at all.
  
  Half life is proof that you can make a game with a good presentation, good graphics, sound 
 and physics on an advanced engine but still have an average game underneath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j14rk1n
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  The original Half-Life picked up over 50 game of the year awards, and it's still alive and kicking. 
 It's currently installed on hundreds of thousands, if not millions of hard-drives across the globe. 
 The game spawned a countless number of mods, and fan-built creations- some of which even moved 
 on to be published by the game creators themselves: Valve. Well they've cranked out yet another 
 hit- it's called Half-Life 2, and it's damn good.
  
  Story:
  The story starts you off in City 17- a place built to house the citizens (guinea pigs) of Dr. Breen 
 and his disciples. It's a depressing place, and the Metropolice patrolling the streets don't make 
 it any homier. The game's settings are spectacular, as you'll see from the very beginning of the 
 game, and they blend seamlessly with the themes that surround your adventure. The characters who 
 tell the story are extremely believable, thanks to Ken Birdwell's facial animation system, and 
 the expressions on their faces will attach emotions to what they're saying. As you progress through 
 the levels alongside the characters, you start to get to know them, and will begin thinking the 
 same way that the AI does.
  
  Graphics:
  You'll be stunned when you see the game in action. The advanced technology and years of planning 
 of the Source engine makes it all possible. The models in the game are fantastic, and they don't 
 really take up as much processing power as you'd think they would. The characters look real, and 
 have faces and gestures that are comparable to something you'd see coming straight out of Pixar. 
 The 2.0 Shaders in the game engine make everything look 10 times as good as they would without 
 them turned on, and add a sense of depth to everything that you see. The particles in the game 
 react as they would in real life, and look downright unbelievable. Overall, the graphics category 
 in Half-Life 2 is the most revolutionary over everything else, and adds to the game experience.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay can be summed up in basically one word: Outstanding. The physical objects in the game 
 react well to what the player does, and also to what the NPC's do. From exploding barrels to the 
 zero point energy manipulator, everything looks real, and puts you into the game alongside your 
 comrades. Although there's a limited weapon selection, and the occasional "Move, you dumb #$&@!" 
 moments, the game does well in all of its other elements. The AI of your friends and enemies are 
 able to pull off some intense combat maneuvers against each other. Whether it be tossing heaters 
 around with Havok 2.0 physics, or guiding missiles into a gunship, the game excels in the pick-up 
 and play category, and is truly great fun that will last for hours.
  
  Sound:
  I haven't played any other game that did any better in this category. The sounds are realistic, 
 lifelike, and add a whole new dimension to the game's environment. In particular, I'd say the Ravenholm 
 SFX are spot-on perfect, because they add a sort of creepy feel to the level that you just don't 
 find in many other games. Don't get me wrong- all the sounds are excellent, but in Ravenholm, you'll 
 see that the game takes a whole new turn, and you'll pay more attention to the eerie music and 
 screaming zombies.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The game wasn't released with any online capabilities except Counter Strike: Source, but weeks 
 after, HL2 Deathmatch made its debut. Although there are a few annoying features about Half-Life 
 2 Deathmatch like a ton of spawnkilling, it's still a very fun addition to the game, and adds another 
 dimension to the game's replay value. Still, HL2DM can't compare to the included copy of Counter 
 Strike: Source, where you're able to dish out some serious punishment. Having teamspeak available 
 in both online implementations of the Source adds some variety, and can get pretty damn hilarious 
 sometimes. The maps are great fun to play for hours, but are really just enhanced versions of Counter 
 Strike 1.6 maps. Still, the Source engine works its magic and can produce gameplay at solid speeds 
 that you just can't beat in another online FPS.
  
  Conclusion:
  As you progress through the first few minutes, and even to the end of the game, you'll constantly 
 ask yourself how Valve managed to pull it off. Then you remember, "Oh, yeah 6 years and a ton 
 of cash." With Havok physics, awesome gameplay, sound and the absolute best graphics I've ever 
 seen, Half-Life 2 is probably the greatest FPS created by any developer in the industry so far. 
 I can truly say that without any exaggeration whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devilsojii
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Definitely one of the best games of all time, from the moment you pick it up you will notice the 
 amazing realism of the game. From the havoc physics engine to lighting, you will be amazed by the 
 graphics. They didn't refuse multiplayer either counter strike source is included if you get bored 
 of single player, which beilieve me you will not fast.
  The most immersive thing about half life 2 is the fact that your not just shooting the same stuff 
 throughout, they have added driving and first person platforming elements to keep you busy.
  The story is a little bit generic, set in a sci fi world where an alien race called "the combine" 
 has tooken over city 17 and gordon freeman, a quantam physicist was sent to protect it, the value 
 of the game doesn't lose charm, you might play HL2 a second time to see what you missed, there 
 are some special easter eggs scattered throughout the game. If you get bored of the game, you can 
 play CSS, which is bundled with the game, and if you get bored of that, you have acsess to the games 
 endless mods.
  The sound also is a nice touch, they give you stuff that sounds like the real thing, but the audio 
 isn't cutting edge it is still honoroble.
  
  What else can i say about half life 2??? One thing, buy it if you have a pc, the requirements are
 
  
  Pentium 4 2.4Ghz
  Directx 9.0 compatible videocard
  Directx 7.0 compatible soundcard
  3 GB of free space
  high speed internet.
  
  Have fun!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yager124
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  This game is worth getting even if u have to wait all that time wating for steam to finish installing 
 the rest of the files it has a great story, Great graphics, great gameplay ,great enviroment And 
 Also the This awsome new Weapon Called the gravity gun its great fun Especially on the last few 
 levels i played this game on a XFX Geforce 5200 FX and it ran great for a crappy graphic card even 
 if i had to run it on 800*600 Resolution and graphics at low and medium the only thing that upset 
 me was that it needed more weapons and enemies.
  
  But this this game is still worth your hard earned $$$money$$$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I never believed a more realistic game has ever been created! Almost all the objects in the environment 
 is capable of being manipulated!
  Graphics: 11/10
  I have a Radeon 9600XT 256Mb video card, and this game has yet to be surpassed in the graphics 
 department. No first person shooter comes close to the texture, smoothness, and detail of HL2. 
 A must see.
  Sound: 10/10
  Everything sounds as realistic as life, with full surround too. If you're not looking for a "Saving 
 Private Ryan" movie, this is the next best thing.
  Gameplay: 11/10
  Again, superb, in the way that "almost" everything in the environment can be manipulated; whether 
 it is by blowing up, putting on fire, throwing aside, or using as a barricade. (Even the paint 
 cans actually work) ... This results in one thing: a near infinite ways to play around in one scenario, 
 and this means MORE replay value!
  Value: 9.9/10
  Well, this game IS new, so it IS quite expensive. However, what can you hope for, when the rest 
 of this game is so good?! If you don't have the cash to shell out for this baby, at least go download 
 the demo version via steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorchedlime
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The first person shooter genre gets less and less original every year, so in the midst of all the 
 mediocrity is a delight to find another rare gem. Launching right along side Halo 2, the undisputed 
 monster of console fps, and following one of the most important and influential games ever made, 
 Half Life 2 had HUGE shoes to fill, and it did so marvelously. A refreshing shift in gameplay style 
 that actually demands intelligence may be a first in the fps genre, and it's about time. I run 
 it on a centrino laptop with an Intel extreme graphics card, and even despite the occasional lag 
 and stripped down graphics, I still hold it very high in my opinion. There is something to be said 
 about a game that even without its normally beautiful graphics can still be one of the better ones 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicylemon89
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves all the hype it receives. It has excellent control and if you're a FPS fan, 
 this title is a MUST. The weapons are varied, beautiful, and have just the right kick; then you 
 got your gravity gun (very cool) . This game has a linear story. I'm not a huge fan of having such 
 a linear story, but in this case, it delivered such varied gameplay, that it worked just right. 
 Personally, I enjoyed the story and look forward to Half-Life 2: Aftermath. This ile ranks up there 
 with the greatest FPS games, at least for me. When you're done with the campaign, you can hop into 
 Counter-strike: source for a completely different and immersive gameplay, which you'll enjoy even 
 if you're not good at it. There's also a multiplayer which is fairly good which the xbox version 
 lacks. This is a PC game must have, game of the year. You'll hear it from me, and just about everyone 
 else. If you're still on the fence about the games, walk away from the screen and go pick up the 
 game, NOW (just make sure your comp can handle it) . A year later, and its graphics are still some 
 of the best out there. All around AWESOME game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005-MUSA
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  well this game is preety long 
  the first part of the game is a little boring were u have no live bar no weapons just walk 2 the 
 lab then the real game starts 
  some people do not like first person shooter games but this one's diffirent
  and i mean it 
 
  the graphics r superb
  trax r fine
  this game is a lit bit slow in some missions while some r prety fast so where it gets slow have 
 some patience
  well overall this gasme is perfect and hence game of the year 2004 so go and buy it what u r waiting 
 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaM31991
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  If you've played the original Half-Life and you loved every moment of it, you would of hated every 
 minute of the waite for the release of Half-Life 2. The graphics in the game have got to be the 
 greatest I have ever seen even with my crapy graphics card it's still astounding. For $40.00 bucks 
 thats a great value. the single player is very long just like in all there games, great weapons 
 a great boss it's all worth the money. Half-Life 2 has to be the greatest game I have ever played 
 the great guns, great enemy's, great map's, and the graphics are a great treat for you're eye's 
 and for you're gaming experience. It is one of the greatest games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scope_king_op
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the best PC game i have ever played. I have beat the game and I have found a tons 
 of secrets. The story is great and kepps you thinking what is going to happen next. The physics 
 are great and is a reason to get it. The gravity gun lets you play with the physics and that is 
 my favorite part of the game. Half Life 2 is a masterpiece. Th e Half Life series is one of the 
 best series ever in the gaming world. Two Thumbs Up. 5 Stars. 10 Out Of 10. "An Astounding Piece 
 of art in the game world." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roonagraphics
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  i remember first buying this game and dowloading it and instantly playing the game, all i can say 
 that this game is f**king mind blowing. this is the kind of game that conceptual gamers should 
 definitely check out and buy it if not for P. C. then for the xbox even though you went get the 
 major graphical break through for the xbox version you will see that the gameplay still sticks 
 to the same on both consoles. the atmosphere of this game is simply welcoming how everything comes 
 to life and the amount of physics put into this game is outstanding, for example half way thru 
 the game i have a ramp that is balance on a thin line of cement i look around the room and say 
 to myself hey why don't i pick up those cinder blocks and place them on the end of one side so 
 that i can get enough height to reach to the next level. yea this is what the game is really about 
 spectacular, innovative, sexy whatever you wanna call it. the amount of guns in this game is endless 
 you'll never get bored of using any weapon in this game knowing that each has a secondary function 
 and theres plenty of baddies from troops all ganging on you to bizarre creatutres from other planets. 
 yea i would say if you have a pc you should definitely check this game out because if you don't 
 then you'll never get a glimpse of next gen. ha ha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Once again players assume the role of Gordon Freeman, a scientist destined to save the Earth from 
 hordes of gruesome alien attackers. Half-Life 2 takes computer games to a new level of realism 
 with incredible in-game graphics that recreate familiar-looking city streets, and blend them with 
 strange and grotesque monsters, resulting in a believable and at times unsettling environment. 
 Objects and characters feature accurate physics properties, behaving with the appropriate mass, 
 density, and physical properties of their real-life counterparts. Extremely intelligent computer 
 AI result in enemies that plan, adapt, and respond to the player's actions. It is a true treat 
 for those who have played the first half life and this proves that Half Life is getting better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormsith
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is an FPS fan's dream come true. When you play this game, you will quickly be thrown 
 into the world as Gordan Freeman, the hero from the last Half-Life game. what you quickly find 
 out about this game is it's amazing physics. This is emphasized by the gravity gun later in the 
 game. The controls are outstanding (due to it being on the PC) and the AI, even though they probably 
 only got C's in there class, are still smart enough and come in enough numbers to provide a challenge. 
 the graphics (for this generation) are simple STUNNING. they are truly great in every conceivable 
 way. the sound, coupled with surround is also great, all together providing a truly realistic experience. 
 So if you're a true FPS fan, go out and get this game KNOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was the eagerly anticipated sequel to one of the most well known and celebrated first 
 person shooters, half life. The original half life reinvented the fps genre by combining superb 
 action and gameplay with a well woven story. Half Life 2 continues this trend.
  
  You play as Gordon Freeman, the somewhat nerdy scientist turned gun toting hero of the previous 
 story. Gordon returns to an earth under alien oppression. A mysterious group called the Combine 
 has conquered the earth and enslaved its remaining citizens. Starting off in City 17, a human internment 
 camp of sorts, Gordon joins up with the human resistance in an attempt to overthrow their oppressors.
 
  
  The sense of immersion and atmosphere in this game is incredible. Valve does a great job of weaving 
 the story and creating heart pounding situations that quickly draw in the player. One of the early 
 chase scenes in City 17 truly makes you feel like you are running for your life.
  
  Although you start off unarmed, Gordon soon acquires several of his old trusty weapons - including 
 the famous crowbar - and the fun begins. Valve also throws in a couple of new additions, including 
 the gravity gun. This weapon utilizes the physics engine of the game and really lets the user have 
 fun throwing around different objects and interacting with the environment. You'll definitely fall 
 in love with it.
  
  Gordon also has the chance to try out a few new vehicles during the course of the game. This helps 
 to provide a fresh change of pace during your adventure.
  
  New weapons and vehicles aren't the only new feature to half life 2. The graphics have been completely 
 upgraded and are beautiful to witness. The facial details on many of the characters are breathtaking, 
 and I often caught myself zooming in to look at the face of several of the characters. The music 
 and sound effects are also well done and work well to create the a sense of immersion and atmosphere 
 in the game.
  
  While a little bit on the shorter side, the game will still last you about 15 hours. The story 
 is clever though not entirely explicit. It ends rather abruptly, but this is typical for half life 
 in general.
  
  Without any reservations, I highly recommend this game. It stands as one of the best first person 
 shooters and also one of the best games this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: postpwnedbunny
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is an amazing game all around.
  
  Its game play is great,
  The graphics are superb!!!
  And its sound quality is marvelous!
  
  I think that Half Life 
 2 is amazing, and comes at an good price ; )
  Its value is a good deal, 3 games for around 40-50 dollars.
  But if you don't want the other 
 two games, you must buy it on-line, on steam, which is probably its only inconvenience.
  
  I think that anyone strolling along in a game store has to stop and drop their jaw in awe as they 
 see for the first time; Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nkenobi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  I began playing, and the opening stuff, was all to fun. Sure I wasn't fighting right away, but 
 I was having a blast just going around without a weapon. As I slowly worked my way onwards, I felt 
 more a part of the world, since I didn't just kill everything in sight, and it has some of that 
 similar excitement I get from exploring in Zelda (not quite as good as Zelda) . All the cinematics 
 playing out in real time before you as you move/play around was something really sweet, and defiantly 
 made you feel as if you were Gordon Freeman. As soon as I got a weapon in my hand, things got even 
 better. Smart AI, and a very cinematic atmosphere made all the shootouts epically sweet. The first 
 time I encountered a strider was truly something.
  
  However, there are a few things that slow this game down. One is the older weapon system, where 
 you carry 10 weapons. Now each weapon was great, but having an unlimited arsenal at your command 
 was a little weird, and lowered the strategy level of the game (which is what makes halo so superb) . 
 I would have preferred only being able to carry like two guns at a time and my crow bar. The other 
 thing that annoyed me was how grenades were in the weapons list. It took to much time to pull one 
 out, toss it, and switch back to a gun. I would like to be able to toss a grenade in the heat of 
 combat, while having my gun out the whole time.
  
  The story was also something, I liked the idea of an underground, and following an underground 
 railroad out of the city, then revolting, it was pretty sweet.
  
  And the scene while riding the hover craft was truly explicit.
  
  Super fun game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satori78
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  (+) WELCOME TO THE REAL WORLD
  The first contact with the game world was amazing. The effort and attention to detail that was 
 put into level design is more than top-notch. Every little corner of the world you get through 
 feels authentic, realistic, like snapshots of real locations. I often found myself stopping from 
 the relentless run the game puts you through just to take in the sights. Near the end of the game 
 though, as you grow accustomed to the level of realism and graphical prowess Half Life 2 achieves, 
 the amazement factor will somewhat fade away and you'll just run through for the end of the game.
 
  
  (+) JUST ADD WATER
  Do you want your game to seduce the player and rise above the competition? Add realistic water. 
 Best-looking-water-in-a-game award goes to Half-Life 2. It looks more real than real. The fact 
 that you can even perceive the depth of a pool of water just by looking at it says it all. It seems 
 that the folks at Valve know how good their water is, so like it or not, you're going to see a 
 lot of it in this game. :) As a matter of fact, the water levels you get through on a raft are 
 my favourite part of the game (that and city 17) .
  
  (+) I'D LIKE MY FUTURE DARK, PLEASE
  Let's face it: Science-Fiction worlds where everything's gone bad, oppressive governments control 
 everything and there's an omnious feel even in the air around you are the very esence of coolness. 
 From Orwell to Matrix going through Neuromancer, and Blade Runner to Ghost in the Shell, the dark 
 future formula works very well and lends itself to a plethora of unique implementations and engaging 
 stories. Half Life 2 does a very good job at creating a dark immersive atmosphere that is actually 
 the best part of the game IMHO. I'll never forget the feeling I got when I first saw alien structures 
 grafted onto real-world-looking human architecture. And let's not forget the huge Citadel rising 
 above the clouds. That was totally awesome, dude!
  
  (-) DO YOU WANT MORE FAST ZOMBIES IN YOUR GAME, SIR?
  I guess not. I'd also like to chew my striders 
 one at a time, please. Oh, that and gunships too, thank you very much. There's going to be a few 
 very annoying moments in your game when for some reason the developers think you'd like to fight 
 many difficult foes at once. Reload, get annoyed (again) , repeat.
  
  (-) ONE QUESTION THOUGH: WHY?
  I mean why was I running through the whole game? What did I achieved? 
 Why am I the only person in the world capable of jumping into a fancy techno-suit and swing a crowbar? 
 Why do I really have to go from point A to point B? Where's the incentive to that? Did I just saved 
 humanity? Yes? Why? No? Why? Is Valve screwing with us? Yes? Why? No? Why? Are we ever going to 
 find out something? Yes? Why? No? Why?
  
  The fact that we played through 2 games and we're still clueless is pretty lame. It may make the 
 folks at Valve fell pretty good about themselves, but in the end the truth is... I feel cheated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grabhighfive
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  All of you uncultured people who read this review and have been isolated from civilized society 
 for many years, I'm going to tell you what to expect from a game called Half-Life 2. This is the 
 best game you will ever play in the course of your existance. Period. It's the innovative style of 
 the origonal Half-Life reborn with new graphics and an engine that no other game can match. If you 
 haven't played Half-Life 2 yet go out and buy a copy. If you don't have an awsome computer go and 
 buy one just for this game. That's exactly what I did and it was totally worth it. Now go, and extend 
 the bounds of you gaming universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehkillerkoala
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Well not really... I'd say good game with AWESOME mods well worth my fifty bucks. The main reason 
 I bought this was for Counter Strike: Source, but still Half Life2 is a great game. The source 
 engine was amazing when this game was first released and now the engine still looks fantastic. 
 The sound in this game is also great. Whoever made the music score deserves a pat on the back for 
 sure. AND Garry Newman, one of the makers of Half life 2, has made Garry's Mod which is so fun 
 it's crazy..... MELON RACING!!!!! If youre saying wtf after seeing me type melon racing then check 
 it out. The map is gm_melonrace..... wow did I just make the most off topic review? O well BUY THIS 
 GAME IF YOU HAVEN'T ALREADY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeronautical
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and Sound
  
  Everyone expects the graphics and sound to have a certain standard when it comes to PC games. Half-Life 
 2 is no exception. Large maps and nice enviroments brings the game's visuals to life. It is one 
 of the best-looking games for the PC -even after a year from its release- an achievment that isn't 
 too easy to reach. But you may be asking: How powerful of a computer do I need? Well that's one 
 of the great things about HL2, it doesn't take a very souped-up computer to run. Even a computer 
 several years old can run the game at nearly the highest settings, a great example showing how 
 good development can over-come anything.
  Sound, as a feature, is catching-up to graphics. But HL2 isn't a game that you should worry about. 
 All the guns have a distinct sound that really is impressive with a good surround-sound system. 
 Any action you make will make some kind of sound that is always welcomed. From walking knee-deep 
 in water, to opening a rusted door- they will all have just the right sound. Music isn't from recognized 
 bands, which is something I like in a game. Although the music maybe unknown to you, it still has 
 the right feeling and comes on at the right time to get you pumped enough for a killing spree!
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  A keyboard and mouse has always been the best controls for a FPS, the only thing that sets games 
 apart is from how you access everything using the duo. For selecting weapons, the standard scroll 
 wheel lets you select the weapon of your choice. Each weapon is catagorized by their type; which, 
 at times, can get a bit hard to get the right weapon out during a fire-fight. But what saves HL2 
 from the horror is the swap weapon button, mapped to the tab key on default.
  The maps in HL2 have a complex design, which is welcomed in anybody's book. But it isn't complex 
 enough to confuse a player, but to give them a choice on how to complete the mission. I'm not saying 
 that the game is completely non-linear, but it does try to hide it.
  
  Overall
  
  Half-Life 2 is another master-peice that is destined to become a classic, just like its older brother. 
 The 7-years of waiting it definatly worth it. With the great storyline, characters, graphics, and 
 level design; its a sure-win for anybody that plays games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rem_intellegere
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Lets throw aside a few flaws in the game. Mainly the AI, while impressive, just doesn't get in 
 your face enough to give us hard-core FPS fans a true orgasm of bloody combat. Lets face it, the 
 main idea behind Half-Life, is its engine and focus on the mod community. You save up all your 
 case, buy a top-of-the-line Alienware Area-51 with Half-Life 2 on it. You nearly wet yourself once 
 that miraculous box arrives at your door and shake like a crack-whore recently gone straight to 
 hook the machine up.
  
  Once you finally get it hooked up, you spend the entire night playing the game, working every in 
 and out until the game is your only knowledge. Then you beat it. The particles extrude in an excellent 
 display of worksmanship and power. As you watch the G-Man fade, cursing from the lack of knowledge 
 as to what happened, you start playing around in Steam. Guess what, you just stumbled into a world 
 of literally hundreds of other games that are not only FREE but also fun and have the same playability 
 and majesty as the game you so loved.
  
  You've also stumbled into a world of no limits. You, yourself can access the Software Developers 
 Kit and not only make your own models and maps, but shape the entire world that you knew into whatever 
 you want.
  
  You, my friend, have stumbled into the vision of Gabe Newell, co-founder and current president 
 of Valve Software.
  
  Now its up to you. Are you going to be a Counter-Strike junkie, find every easter egg in Half-Life 
 2: Single Player, a modding guru, or specialist in a form of modification? It's yours for the taking.
 
  
  So where are you going to go? With this work of pure art at your fingertips, it's up to you to 
 decide what's next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenerationEd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game graphically is better than the x box version (obviously) . It also has multiplayer. CS: S 
 and HL2 deathmatch. This is simply a beutiful game graphically.
  You all know the story i don't need to tell you. This game is better than Halo in every way.
  
 This game has everything it takes to be a classic. Even better than its predesessor.
  
  I already did a rview for this game on x box, but every flaw in the xbox version is made up for 
 in the pc version. With the exception of a confussing and incomplete story (thats cool though because 
 they're making another one) . So this is just to score the pc version.
  
  So this is the game of our age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is excellent
  it has a great gameplay
  the whole phsyics engine is excellent
  it makes a whole new level of gameplay avaliable
  the gun action is superb i am addicted
  to 
 the way a enemie acts to beig shot
  when u shot them it feels like u've hit them there i. e head
  
  the music/sound is excellent
 
  there are some great tracks that kick in at just the right time in the game
  
  the graphics are fanstatsic
  each level is unique i. e ravenholm its dark eery
  city 17 city 
 feel with war
  highway 17 lost ruined eerie feel
  
  controls are fine 
  
  the ai does its job well
  
  the voicce overs are good
  
  and the plot is very interesting 
 
  
  with many great events during the game
  
  it also comes with counter strike source and half life death match 2
  so its in a way 3 for 1 
 all 3 of high quality
  
  great value great game
  you just want to make sure ur computer is good and ull be fine
  
  great game check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonjp
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  HL2 is a good game. Let's face it, no one can deny this. It has great graphics, action filled to 
 the last minute. On the downside it lacks a good story - its too much of "run there to meet some 
 guy" but then find out they have been killed and must move on to somewhere else. It isnt too much 
 of a problem, as you soon get imersed against the forces of evil. 
  
  The additions from the first game are great - more weapons, a great physics engine and superb graphics 
 make it a great game. Coupled with CS: Source you get great mutiplayer action too; HL2 Deathmatch 
 is equally as enjoyable with large servers and great maps.
  
  Buyer beware: Got Ati? Got Soundblaster? this game might not be for you. Many have encountered 
 problems (including me) in recent updates that render the game unplayable (present in 32- and 64- 
 bit editions) . Known as the "looping sound problem" it has no cure and Valve sadly ignore the customers 
 wishes to fix it. It might not just be limited to Ati owners (nor SB owners) so be careful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMPACT_17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  You gotta give this game a thumbs up. The storyline is briliant. Though it doesnt answer much. 
 It's fun to throw bottles at the police at city 17 and to cut zombies in half at Traptown. It's 
 basicley not the "classic" kind where you just jump around and and there are nothing but walls. 
 It's a game that looks real because of the realistic physics and the objects like bottles and even 
 toilets. The graphics are brilliant. The water reflections are the best. This game is pretty fun 
 with the water. Gotta love the sound. The voice acting in this game is brilliant. Anyway it feels 
 real with all of that. 
  
  The single-player is very fun. In the easy mode, the enemys are VERY easy to kill, so u could walk 
 up and walk them with a crowbar to death. It's also fun to throw those chainsaw flys with a graviti 
 gun. Also you can have mother of those antlion dudes chase you around. The levels are big and enjoyable 
 so prepare to do a lot of thinking.
  
  Multi-player comes out as some deathmatch game such as Quake 3 Arena. But, when you shoot the people 
 in the head, they dont die. It's always fun to play around and throw toilets at people, or play 
 on the co-op servers. 
  
  In all this game is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This ladies and gentlmen is how you make a game. I never played the first HL or any of its expasions 
 minuse a over night rentle on the old dream cast. How ever i jumped right in to this game with 
 both feet. the graphics are IMHO the best iv seen yet over all. the charicters are very memrobale 
 and the art style is great. 
  
  The sound is also a notch above anything else i have heard in a game. the music fits the enviroment 
 perfectly. creating a lonley feeling. the game just does every thing it set out to. this oozes 
 atmosphere by the buckets. The level ravonholm is a very big treat in this regard and completly 
 makes the devlopers of DOOM3 look like amatures. The story is good and very well paced and was 
 able to completly hold my attenion through the intiere course of the single player game. 
  
  The physics moddleing is great how ever IMHO was not put to its full potental. there is alot 
 more that could have been done. the rest of the game play is top notch. the wepons are good though 
 i would not say great. 
  
  The only realy negative thing i had to say about the game is the AI. i cant resone deducting points 
 seeing as its on par with most of the AI thats in other current games how ever the rest of the 
 game is so great it kinda makes the AI stand out as less than what it should be in this game.
 
  
  If you have a decent PC you owe it to your self as a gamer to buy this game. it is IMHO THE best 
 FPS thats been made to date and one of the top 10 best games PC or console ever. please for the 
 love of all things good get this game. .... what are you waiting for ? get up a go get this game 
 NOW!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  You wake up late for work... you spill coffee on your best suit... your stuck in traffic.. you realize 
 your work on the computer was lost.. and your boss is on your case... if you think youve had a bad 
 day.. then you dont know the whole half-life story of our 4 eyed pal Gordon Freeman!
  
  The Story of Half-life 2 is a sequel to the greatest game HALF-LIFE ( in my opinion)
  
  To Sum 
 up the story of the first Half-life.. a young thick glasses wearing assistant named Gordon Freeman 
 ends up stuck in a conspiracy of a government experience.. leading to a huge massacre.. alien pop 
 out... death squads want you dead.. and with your wits... your hazards suit.. and a rusty crowbar.. and 
 other cool weapons.. fight your way.. fighting to save the world.
  
  Back with Half-life 2.. it take you back years later.... where you end up in a holocaust like city... filled 
 with civilians, Death Soldiers.. and ofcourse them lousy alien... Gordon must once again save the 
 day with his Hazard suit and hes trusty trademark Crowbar ( dont worry there are more weapons)
 
  
  Half-Life 2 is a huge improvement compared to the original
  the graphics in the game so realistic.. youd swear it was real
  the sound and voice acting are 
 perfect.. there plenty of great action... and ofcourse there is good old.. Gordon Freeman
  
  If you havent played Half-life 2 yet.... WAT are you waiting?... get your Hazard suit and crowbar 
 and play this game... you cant expect Gordon Freeman to do all the work... hes needs days off from 
 work.. just like you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmstjernen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I played the first hour... and I would have no problem playing it again, and again, and again. 
 It's just incredible. The characters look at you when they're talking to you! No matter how important 
 they are, they will follow you with their eyes, it's pretty amazing... and eerie. Too Real. Some 
 parts It is hard to hear what people are saying because of all of the ambient noise. The ambient 
 noise is incredible and engaging in itself though. Bodies aren't stiff, they have a life like wiggle 
 to them. The physics are like no other game ever. It's ground breaking. One other thing that bothers 
 me just a little is that you can't shoot the innocents. Bullets will go right through them. Maybe 
 it was just for the one that I tried it on.. I'll find out later. Go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkan-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a game you just love over the time played, it is thrilling and fun at the same time 
 and the story is just fantastic play this game it is awsome and the graphics and real good to. 
 aliens come out of no where from celling and vents its horrific especially when you got no ammo 
 left and your left with a crow bar got to run around swinging your crow bar this is a beautiful 
 game. Valve really made this game good and i mean good . the characters are way more detailed and 
 driving an awsome full speed one door car thingy that is a killa juming off bridges and taking 
 out your boozuka to bomb down flying combine planes. gravity gun is like the best gun in the game 
 you get to use it on combies to pick them up and slam them on the ground and roof and taking televisions 
 off the walls and slaming it on the combies now thats fun!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperPyro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  I give it a 50 out of 10, seriously.
  This is, with out a doubt, the best single player game for any platform ever made. The graphics 
 are insanely great making everything look real. The storyline and sound flow smoothly with great 
 special effects and are awesome. Single player is very long and there is great attention to detail. 
 The AI in this game are not those stupid things that just stand there and get shot. Instead they 
 hide behind walls and overturned objects to shoot you. 
  Three difficulty levels to provide for the noob, average FPS gamer, and the god-like shooter. 
 
  The multi player (Counter-Strike: Source) is the best multiplayer game for any platform ever. 
 There are literally thousands of modifications for both games that make it last forever. They vary 
 from new maps to weapons to special effects to completely new games based off of Valves engine.
 
  
  BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Before the day Oct. 31, 1998 arrived, FPS's seemed to never break the mold in terms of great storytelling 
 and revoulutionary gamelay. But that all changed when Half-Life was unleashed onto the unsuspecting 
 public. Not only did it break tons of new ground for games, but it was also one of the greatest 
 games ever made, period. And about 5 years later, Half-Life 2 has finally been released. But only 
 one question remains:
  
  Is it a worthy successor to the revolutionary original?
  
  I am happy to say that yes, HL2 is an outstanding game in almost every single way you can possibly 
 think of. Everything in the game is just teeming and overflowing with stunning realism and incredible 
 action, and not to mention that it has an enticing storyline and memorable characters to boot. 
 
  
  At the start of the game, you'll find yourself on a tram heading to a place called City 17. You'll 
 soon realize as you progress through the game, that it's nothing short of a futuristic version 
 of a concentraton camp controlled by an alien race known only as the Combine. But when you finally 
 try to escape and explore other areas, that city will seem like heaven compared to the hellish 
 environments yet to come..
  
  HL2 plays very similar to the original HL, which is no surprise seeing as it's a sequel. Fortunately 
 though, it's not a complete rehash, so you can breath a sigh of relief right there. Even though 
 some parts feel like you've played it before, I doubt you'll hardly notice any of it .
  
  As an avid shooter fan, I have to say that I have never had this much fun with any other FPS. The 
 action is fast-paced and erratic, and it'll keep you on the edge of your seat throughout the whole 
 game. But the most amazing part of HL2 is the incredibly smart, and not to mention brutal, AI. 
 Instead of just standing there dumbfounded and shooting blanky at you, enemies will duck out of 
 the way of incoming fire, and they will use the environment around them to survive and take you 
 down. As you can see, this is not your typical shooter. This is the most intense shooter you'll 
 probably EVER play, and that's a guarantee, if not a fact.
  
  The first thing that popped into my head when I witnessed the graphical masterpiece of HL2, is 
 that I thought this was a movie, live-action of course. I cannot describe how visually stunning 
 and realistic this game looks, because it isby far the best looking game ever made. Various citizens 
 look incredibly life-like, even more so when you get into a conversation with them. Even the environment 
 looks like something you would see on a postcard, minus the pretty colors and whatnot. 
  
  And what is the best part about the graphics, asde from the good looks? Physics my good friend, 
 physics. HL2 supports the Havok engine, and suffice to say, it shows. Almost everything you see 
 is totally interactive, like picking a can up and putting it in a trash can for example. But the 
 best part about it, is the use of the Gravity Gun. As the name implies, this gun allows you to 
 lift certain objects like crates and barrels, thereby giving you the chocie to fling that object 
 at an enemy, or to use it for other means. For example, stacking a bunch of crates to reach a platfom.
 
  
  With the outstanding action packed gameplay, and the most visually stunning graphics to grace any 
 platforrm, CAN it get any better. Why, yes it can my dear friend.
  
  Like the graphics, the sound in HL2 is unbelievably amazing. Everything you hear throughout the 
 entire course of the game seems like it's almost real. Hell, even the Combine might be proof enough 
 that aliens do exist. But undoubtedly the best part about the sound, is the voice work. The people 
 responsible for voicing their characters did an outstanding job doing it, and even various citizens 
 you'll meet in the game have great VO's as well. Not to mention that the guns sound life-like in 
 every way. Every time you fire a weapon, you FEEL like you are firing that weapon. And boy, what 
 a feeling that is.
  
  All-in-all, HL2 is even better than it's predecessor, which is what most sequels fail to do. It 
 defines the very meaning of a FPS, and I have yet to play a game that surpasses it. If you're looking 
 for a shooter that won't leave you disappointed in any way, then Half-Life 2 is no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reebus
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The game picks up off of where Half-Life left off although there is a time difference. Once again 
 you play as Gordon Freeman the hero of the first instalment. When I installed this game onto my 
 computer I was blown away instantly. I thught the graphics were spectacular. I simply looked into 
 peoples face and saw emotions, I looked at walls and notices and could read them. I was completely 
 blown away by this game. The true awesomeness of this game came when i started puicking simple 
 objects up and accidentally pulled a tv from its main socket. That just blew me away completely. 
 I had my true first taste of fun when I killed a guy and took his pistol. I even recall saying 
 to my friend "wehet!". I thought the gameplay took a new turn though when I got the chance to take 
 an all terrain hovercraft. I was astonished by the effects of the water, the handling of the craft 
 and the genral feel of running an enemy over I said to myself "Well, I'm never ever getting rid 
 of this". However afer the jolly antics of the introductory sections I was taken aback by the chills 
 of an old enemy; the headcrabs. I was very wary and almost scared while traversing the headcrab 
 ridden area. I was slightly relieved when using another great feature, the gravity gun, to fire 
 a chainsaw blad at one cutting it in half. This really made me believe that the creators of this 
 game should be carved into marble and immortalised for all eternity. Earlier I mentioned that there 
 was feature in the game called the gravity gun. This is an excellent addititon to the game. One 
 thing players will immediately know is that there is no ammo, no battery, no nothing. This gun 
 is infiinite. The great thing about this is that it can be used to drag things 50 metres away towards 
 you. When done you can pick up the object and then hurl it back twice the spped. This can be done 
 with many things some of my vavourite being the chainsaw, the flammable gas bottles and the eavy 
 metal objects. Overall, I think this is an awe inspiring game and should be hailed by all gamers 
 out there. Anyone who disrespects this game will be killed by gordon freeman with the crowbar. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigboss766
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  I play a lot of games and i have just recently bought Half Life 2 and i have to say it is all it's 
 cracked up to be. The game has some great weapons in it which are very satisfying to use. You really 
 get a feel for what it would be like if your world had been taken over by these... guys... Really 
 the only problems i had where that the AI werent as smart as they could have been ie the AI in 
 F. E. A. R., the fact that the game really isnt very hard, and that the game ends without finishing 
 the story just like in the first one. The things that i liked though out way the bad in every way. 
 The gravity gun has to be one of the most satisfying weapons to use in gaming history. All in all, 
 the game is great and if your still debating on whether you should get it make up your mind now 
 because this is and experience that can not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluejay64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  When Half Life came out in 1999 it revolutionised the FPS genre, replacing the repetitive corridor 
 trawling style of FPS' at the time with a smart and different FPS which is considered the greatest 
 game of all time by many. How could valve even match this with the sequel? After 6 years of development 
 and many delays, Half Life 2 was finally unleashed to the world.
  
  Half Life 2 does not stray too far from its predecessor it terms of gameplay but that is no bad 
 thing. The gunplay is fast and thrilling and the enemy A. I is smart,. The Combine will work together, 
 circling buildings to surround you, ducking for cover when necessary.
  
  HL2's graphics are extraordinarily realistic. A year after its release it still stands up to and 
 in many ways, excels the competition. The NPCs in the game show real emotion and feel human in 
 a way no other videogame characters do. The scenary and environments are varied and realistic.
 
  
  A truly original feature provided by HL2 is the new gravity gun. Using the game engine's perfect 
 physics to lift and propel objects at enemies feels novel and adds to the game experience. The 
 gravity gun is no gimmick, it is one of the game's finest attributes.
  
  Finally, the amount of added content provided by this game is a reason to buy it on its own. The 
 highly acclaimed Counter-Strike multiplayer is an excellent addition if not a worthy game on its 
 own. The other multiplayer counterpart HL2 Deathmatch is also very enjoyable as are the many mods 
 created from the game; Goldeneye, Perfect Dark an the rehash of Half Life 1 Black Mesa Source are 
 of note. With the impending steam only release of the expansion pack Aftermath buy this now and 
 experience City 17. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tankintheair315
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Ok, I bought this game because I heard about its great gameplay, and i wanted CS: Source. When I 
 bought it, I got the Game of the Year edition for $40. Best. Deal. Ever. With this you get Half 
 Life 2, Half Life 2 Deathmatch, Counter Strike- 
  Source, and Half Life Source. So, you beat HL2 then you can play HL if you want more of the awsome 
 storyline. Then you can get into the unlmited possibilities of HL2 mods. There is a ton of them. 
 There is a CTF mod and a goldeneye mod. And there is soo many thing to do, no game even comes close. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babolu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This franchise is famous for its innovative gameplay and design and the ball is not dropped in 
 this game. THe addition of new weapons and better graphics this game rules ( ( (even though it is 
 not as ggod as BF2) ) ) hehehehehe,, but ne ways this game and awesome and will be playing this on 
 until the next one comes out. he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he 
 he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he 
  
  LONG LIVE THE SOUTH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Best game ever made.
  
  The graphics, oh my god amazing! No other game as put so much detail in everything in the game. 
 With the amazingly realistic physics, this game by far technically complete. The faces in the game 
 are LIFE REAL. They look and the mouths move EXACTLY as they should.
  
  The sound quality is simply incredible. Every gun, person and object has their own unique sound. 
 When you clash a cardboard box against a wall its different from what a saw blade sounds like. 
 Every voice-over is amazing, and the lip sync is amazingly realistic.
  
  The story is absolutely amazing, though i wont give it away.
  
  The gameplay is sweet, as Valve 
 spent a ton of time perfecting everything. The inclusion of CS: Source and HL2: Deathmatch make 
 this game simply amazing and every single PC gamer should own it.
  
  I only have one complaint to Valve.
  NEVER EVER EVER MAKE US WAIT 6 YEARS AGAIN!!!!!!!
  
 
  Review Lowdown
  Teh good-
  Amazing graphics
  Amazing Story
  Amazing physics
  Amazing characters
  Amazing Face Graphics
  Amazing Lip snycing
  
  teh bad-
  ummmm NONE
 
  
  teh ugly-
  WE HAD TO WAIT 6 YEARS FOR THIS MASTERPIECE!!! 6 F'ing YEARS!!!!!! NEVER AGAIN VALVE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a good game. It has very good physics and the game is very fun. You wont get bored 
 of it at all. Half-Life 2 may get you a bit pissed off sometimes. In the game, there are some areas 
 where its too hard to get threw or its just plain annoying. But other then that the game is worth 
 playing and is worth the money on it. Half-Life 2 is probably one of the best shooters I have ever 
 played in my life. The game is better then Halo 2 for sure and Doom 3. Half-Life 2 is a masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z00Mbite
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 (PC)
  
  Can you spell FPS?
  
  Gameplay: If you are a huge Half Life, Counter Strike, Condition Zero, Source, Day of Defeat, and 
 every Valve game fan, this is the game you must get. Those of you who don't know what those games 
 are, I feel sorry for youl. Anyways, basically you play the role of a man name Gordon Freeman, 
 or The One Free Man. He used to be a doctor for a research facility named Black Mesa. Unfortunately 
 crazy things happened during an experiment and unleashed a bunch of crazy looking alien things 
 that freak you out. But it's not a horror game. Anyways it's an FPS (First Person Shooter for all 
 you n00bs out there,) so you get to kill those wierd looking aliens that would just love to head 
 hump you. Sooner or later, you beat the game and G-man (some crazy old looking guy in a buissiness 
 suit) creeps you out. This was in the first Half Life. 
  Once again, Gordon Freeman has come back to kick some alien ass. This time he has to kill this 
 crazy doctor dude who has taken over the world. You, and your groupie of resistence and Black Mesa 
 reseachers need to kill him because you're good... that's what good guys do... kill evil scientist 
 that take over the world. Expect G-man to come onto you in the end.
  
  Graphics: Is extrordinary a good way to put this? No... something above extraordinary. Absolutely 
 Amazing! I would give Valve flowers and a Big Hug for all the work they have done to make this 
 game. The graphics are some of the best that I have ever seen, even now, in 2006. The game came 
 out in 2004. My good friend ______ loves physics. Maybe not the science class, but in his videogames. 
 Physics is one of the best parts of this game. Things move... you shoot at ememies and they die 
 with ragdoll effects (they will fall down stairs, fall off things, loose balence, etc...) I like 
 playing with the bodies... hehe.
  
  Sound: Unfortunately, I only had a problem with the music. The sound felt kind of far away. When 
 I fired my guns it felt like I was hearing them being fired from a longer range. Just personally, 
 my computer is stupid sometimes, so whenever someone is talking, I need to stand right in front 
 of the person who's talking in order for all my speakers to do the sound thingy that they do. This 
 only applies to me though.
  
  Value: If you're buying Half Life 2 at your local Best Buy, EB Games, Game Stop, etc... You wil 
 most likely pay $40-$50 (for a brand new version.) But it comes with Counter-Strike Source... so 
 basically you're paying $20-$25 for Counter-Strike Source, and another $20-$25 for Half Life 2.
 
  If you just want Half-Life 2, I recommend going to www. steampowered. com, download the program, 
 make an account, and pay the one time fee to get Half-Life 2. So you're buying Half-Life 2 off 
 of Steam, but you need a credit card... sorry kids.
  
  Tilt: I absolutely love Valve's games... This game is one of my favorite FPSs... if not, my all time 
 favorite. I played the first Half Life and I was phyced about a sequel that was even better. And 
 after you beat Half-Life 2, you can test your pwnage skillz on Counter-Strike Source. w00t! 
  
  Z00Mbite out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2, the most highly anticipated PC game of all time. Is it worth playing? Absolutely. 
 The game is a ton of fun, from the gravity gun which is worth the price of admission alone, to 
 the breathtaking graphics and voice acting to the intense fluid feel the game brings, Half Life 
 2 is a must play.
  
  The game has had to have been in development for years and years, you can tell though, that Valve 
 worked as hard as they could to make sure the final product would be made a must play and it is. 
 The facial animations that the characters give off are revolutionary and I just can't resist how 
 fantastic the physics are. Seriously, this game is a must own for the physics alone, topple everything 
 else that is great about this game on top of it and you've got a gem called Half Life 2.
  
  Half Life 2 starts off with you, Gordon Freeman, coming back from Black Mesa and the distant planet 
 you were sent to at the end. As you get introduced by the G man again, you get to explore the wonderfully 
 detailed world of City 17. The game has no cut scenes; you only see the game through Gordon's eyes, 
 something that has been well known from the Half Life franchise.
  
  Half Life 2 picks up the pace quick, as you get done exploring and you find that a mysterious race 
 called the Combine have taken over while you were gone, you quickly get reappointed and back to 
 the shooting. As this goes on, Half Life 2 does play the standard Point A to Point B thing, but 
 the variety of environments really help make the game believable. The game doesn't take long to 
 complete, but you will definitely want to come back again to see the game now that you know all 
 of the puzzles, which of course take full force of the amazing physics engine.
  
  The real reason to play Half Life 2 does lie in the physics and graphics department. Make no mistake, 
 this game takes a lot of hardware to play, but it's worth ever penny. The gravity gun, which you 
 get pretty early on in the game, has to be my most favorite gun ever made in a video game. It basically 
 picks up anything small and medium size (literally) and can be thrown or picked up. You can kill 
 enemies doing this or just run around and play with it. This is the best part about Half Life 2 
 as I've said before.
  
  The ending of the game, is pretty disappointing, hopefully a sequel will come out in the uncertain 
 future, but the story alone isn't all that great and feels forced in parts. Still though, the enemies 
 are fun to kill because their smart and work in groups. The AI on your side is also really smart, 
 as you'll have lots of help in both humans and animals in this game.
  
  No enemy is hard to take down, but there's so many of them and so many frantic firefights, that 
 you just have to love it every second.
  
  The voice acting and music is perfect. The music all kicks in at the right time and the voice acting 
 is outstanding. All the characters react and animate well and are all detailed. 
  
  The game itself has some seriously jaw dropping graphics that make other games like Doom 3 look 
 like trash. The lighting effects are great and the frame rate never drops. Although you will need 
 some good hardware to play the game, it isn't too bad.
  
  The weapons are all really common if you've played previous Half Life games. You have your trusty 
 crowbar and pistols, machine guns, shotguns, rocket launchers, and so on. All of them packs a real 
 punch and are joys to use. 
  
  Along with the weapons you might remember from previous Half Life games, the characters are all 
 familiar too. The scientists have teamed together to make a portal for you to go through from place 
 to place and even time. You get sent to foreign locations and then have to fight your way through 
 hordes of Combine guards to get back and regroup with the scientists and such. This is what starts 
 Half Life 2 and puts it in motion. But be warned, it doesn't take off from here really. Some key 
 characters change around from being good to bad and such, but nothing extraordinary. Like I said 
 this isn't the end of the Half Life franchise. You can tell that more expansions and sequels will 
 be coming out because of this. That's ok, because I wish all shooters could be this much fun.
 
  
  All in all, Half Life 2 is a must play, no matter who you are. It is extremely fun and is a game 
 that you would be crazy to miss out on, hey it isn't called "The most highly anticipated PC game 
 of all time" for nothing, and after playing it, I couldn't agree more, believe the hype. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartvuggh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  only 3 words can describe this game. OH MY GOD. this is by far the greatest video game ever. Screw 
 Halo, socom, and all those other shooters. Half-life 2 is so great. I wish I had played the first 
 game before. (I could understand the story, but i wish i could know wat it ould be like before 
 Half-life 2) The physics, graphics, animations, everything in this game is great. The only problem 
 is that the learning curve is a little challenging when u first pick up without playing half-life 
 1. You really hav to THINK in the campaign, unlike other games. The greatest part is, i was able 
 to run it on a moderate dell comp, w/o any problems except for little longer loading. I could go 
 on forever about how great HL2 is, but you hav to really play it to believe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destiny_blade
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  as i started prowling the city hunting down the policemen and other enemies it hit me i was so 
 immersed in the game i couldnt stop playing it the game is frighteningly addictive my hands were 
 glued to my keyboard. just whispering to myself boom head-shot and k. o over and over. another thing 
 that make the game great is the amazing online play the best ive ever seen although im no major 
 fan of the counter strike series i think deathmatch is such fun to play especially with things 
 like garrys mod and maps people have created like dodgeball and football i think this game might 
 just be the gratest pc game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a stunning game that looks just perfect. the graphic engine is greatly shocking 
 that you keep startled at the environment around you, and it does really make you feel in the world 
 of Half-life. actually, what amused me more about the graphics is "the water" WaW, just incredible 
 and well-worked and the textures especially when it comes to characters faces. the gameplay is 
 a miracle, i played half-life2 and felt a new style of action and much addiction, and i went... 
 waw, now that's what i'm talking about !!!! the sounds are mixed with great talent, that if you're 
 equipped with a good sound-card and a couple of solid speakers, you're gonna feel involved in the 
 action for real !! Finally, the story is famous from the previous series, but amazing !!! all in 
 all, Half-life 2 brings to FPS genre a new taste and a more original flavour and i strongly recommend 
 it for FPS fans !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Who else remembers one of the most anticipated games of all time? This game was pushed back more, 
 and for the dumbest reasons than any other game. Where as it was the best looking game at the time 
 of it's announce, it was pushed back far too long and only managed to come up to par with games 
 like Doom 3, which came out around the same time.
  
  However, the game still managed to almost live up to its hype. The Havoc engine revolutionized 
 gaming as we know it. Rag doll physics are the new big thing in the gaming market and Half Life 
 2 managed to step up to the plate and deliver the example of it. My only complaint about this amazing 
 new feature is that where as it looks great, people just do not die like that it real life for 
 the most part. 
  
  Graphically this game is stunning, even on a ge-Force mx 200/400 i was blown away. Very very flexible 
 specifications make it look great on almost any system. Lighting brings people and objects to life 
 without too much of the "plastic" look that most games are going for these days for gosh knows 
 what reason.
  
  The sound effects are very well done. Great, appropriate sounds are given for the appropriate objects. 
 Wood sound like wood, plastic like plastic etc. Music does an amazing job of setting the eerie 
 vibe in this game. The gun sounds however seem kind of bland and muffled to me, just not my cup 
 of tea.
  
  Steam is one of the most controversial online platforms for online gaming. I believe it adds a 
 lot of content to a very refreshingly adaptable source. Easily and commonly modified this game 
 has become, which adds an enormous replay value to the game.
  
  This game is very easy to recommend and i belive that every gamer, especially fans of the first 
 person shooter genre should run out and buy this game as it is well worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryokinshin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game comes with a great story as a continuation to Half Life and also comes with the great 
 multiplayer mod turned licensed game Counter Strike now with improved with the source engine for 
 gfx, sound and physics (amazing physics) . The story is amazing, the physical aspects of the game 
 are amazing (gfx, sound etc.) and the overall quality of the game is very high. The most of these 
 would be good enough reasons to buy the game, but of course online multiplayer for replayablility (probably 
 not even a word) is vital to any modern day fps game. Counter Strike source mentioned above, is 
 an updated version of the original CS game, a very addictive team game that will keep you hooked 
 for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepiroth911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Pros- 
  1. Amazing Graphics that rarely stutter
  2. Good Sound Effects
  3. Good Weapons, including an enjoyable Gravity Gun
  4. One amazing storyline
  
  Cons-
  1. 
 Takes time to load the game
  2. Soundtrack could have been better
  
  Verdict- A truly amazing game that is will be remembered and honored with games like Halo, Metal 
 Gear Solid, Legend Of Zelda. This game deserves every accolade and award it recieved. The hype 
 around this game did not lie or dissapoint.
  
  CPU-1.9 ghz
  Video-ATI Radeon 2400 128 mb
  Sound-32 bit
  Motherboard-Abit
  Speakers-Cyber Acoustics
 
  
  Buying this game allows access to tons of other mods such as Half Life 2 Assault, Garry's Mod, 
 Half Life 2 SMOD. The replay value is very very satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assault999
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  the game it is realy old but it is awsome you well going to make the game your life you well love 
 it you well never leave the game beleave me you well never going to forget it she had a realy hard 
 life and the ai is wanderfull it is like F. E. A. R. and the action it s like movie so buy the game 
 and you never going to make it bad if you are great you feel like you inside amovie you anderstand 
 now get going and buy the game if you are very like the half-life2 game and heard of it okay see 
 you next time see YAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  First off, Let me say that Valve is so concerned with the few people who pirate games, that they 
 are willing to torture those of us who pay for their games, and the people who pirate are probably 
 playing their pirated copy right now.
  That's what happens when your numbers guy makes up a spreadsheet to let you know how much you lost 
 due to Piracy. Please remember this Valve, I will not buy your next game because HalfLife2 ticked 
 me off that bad.
  Now How much money are you losing....
  The Game is great though. I think I'll get a Pirated Copy of HalfLife3 when it comes out...
  
 I would pay 3 times as much to never have to suffer an Install like this EVER AGAIN.
  The game itself is awesome. But back to what Morons Valve are.
  1 Month Later I go to Play my 
 game, I'm just interested in playing my single player game I have in progress. Steam starts downloading 
 like a fool. I start Steaming, I guess that is why they named it "Steam", either that or because 
 it is a steaming pile of poop.
  So Finally the STEAM stops downloading, Now my splash screen takes me to deathmatch... I don't 
 want to deathmatch... I wan't to play my single player game... who are the idiots that make decisions 
 at valve. How much sleep do they lose worrying about people pirating their software.
  Well I say with If Valve keeps this Steam thing going, then I think they Deserve It.
  Well I've 
 rambled enough, In fact I don't think I'll add anything else positive about the game in the review, 
 because this review reminded me how much I hate Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seifer99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to say that this game has THE best physics I have ever seen in a game. If 
 you throw a brick down some stairs it reacts like a brick thrown down stairs would. Later on in 
 the game you get a gun called the gravity gun which is the single most fun gun to use. You can 
 pick up nearly anything and shoot a couple hundred feet in the air.
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome. I have the settings at near full and it looks superb.
 
  
  The only problem with this game is the AI. They just stand there and take your bullets, I'm sure 
 Valve could have put a bit more work in their AI.
  
  All in all this is a good game and I would recommend it to anyone who likes a good FPS. And since 
 the Game Of The Year version comes with Half Life 2: Deathmatch, Counter Strike Source and Half 
 Life Source as additions your paying about $15 a game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizler191
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  okay well I bought the game for cs: source but I played through the entire game none the less. It's 
 pretty tight. The graphics... damn... you'll be impressed if you using a decent computer. Another 
 thing... this game has a highly advanced physics engine. This makes it really interesting ... blowing 
 someone off a ledge and watching them hit the floor is just... tight The game offers a good action 
 experience but the plot is **** That doesn't matter though... you get the source engine meaning 
 you can play alot of other games too. Blowing other people away online is the best thing you get 
 out of this game. So far it has been the only shooting game that I haven't stopped playing since 
 i've started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXrebel666Xx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Put simply this game is unbelievable.
  The graphics are beyond belief. reality starts to feel like a video game after this one.
  Multiplayer 
 aspects are perfect with hl2 deathmatch and CS: S bundled in.
  Only one thing that gets me is the storyline. I havent played original half life so im completely 
 stumped on what the story line is on about?
  Anyway this game is a MUST and is simply beautiful.
  
  I know im contradicting a previous review 
 of mine but after playing it for a second time this is still the best game ever made and quake 
 4 just isn't the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marklax62
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I had extremely high expectations for this game after playing it on my friends computer. At the 
 time i didnt quite have the stuff to run it. So I actually set out to get a new computer. AFter 
 i settled on one, this was the very first thing i bought and it didnt let me down at all. the graphics 
 absolutely stunned the hell out of me (being an xboxer) . The graphics, weapons and atmospheric 
 sounds are perfect to draw you into the game and the story is enough to keep you into it. When 
 i first played this game, i think i went on a 6 hour binge of it because i couldnt get enough of 
 it. However, there were points where i felt it dragged, maybe it was the fact that i played a large 
 portion of the game in a short amount of time and my butt hurt from sitting, i was too tired and 
 missed some things, it was alittle easy, or it was actually dragging. I dont know. But, i waited 
 a week, and picked it back up and it had the same punch as the day i bought it. Fair amount of 
 replay value, its kinda a one time deal, but some parts of the game are fun to redo (i particularly 
 like the end) . Once you actually finish the single player which took me about 10-15 hours you can 
 play the Counterstrike multiplayer portion that comes with the $50 deal. Counterstrike alone is 
 worth paying $50 for in my opinion. its so much fun to play and you have to catch yourself so you 
 dont play for hours on end. The overall package of Half Life 2 stunned me, i had never expierianced 
 anything so immersive before and it really opened my eyes again to PC games after about a 3-4 year 
 abscence of playing them (xbox era) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DioXin_5
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I have played the first one and now this one...
  like the last one, it left me with my mouth open wide... every little detail, the texture , the 
 gameplay... all just perfect!!!
  now after cooling down a bit , i can write my review...
  well first of all , i have to say, for the second time, its one of THE best games i played during 
 my life time as a gamer... they have succefully managed to delever the goods ..., the graphics 
 in this game are the best i saw yet in a shooter game, i was impresed ,even with my humble pc hardware, 
 i was amazed by the graphics, so if you got the right hardware, you'll be abale to enjoy it twice 
 as much..
  another huge attraction is the gameplay, which delevers different and exciting levels, and situation 
 succesfully.. you'll have to think your way out of different obsticales, and work your way through 
 the levels.. but don't think all this thinking is for nothing, because they also deliver the proper 
 amount of alien and gaurdsmen ass kicking... this mixture will give you an exciting and thrilling 
 gameplay.
  the soundtracks in this game are very much suitable to every scene, and does and exceeding job 
 in adding to the tention in every scene..
  in short, this a GREAT game, that every respectable gamer should play, and then frame in his games 
 hall of fame... and if he doesn't have one yet, then he should starting now..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calprobetts
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about 4 months ago because i heard of all the reviews that gamespot was giving 
 it i thought it would probably be you average pc shooter and thats it but once i beat the game 
 and lived this "experience" i knew it had to be the greatest game ever made after i beat the game 
 (a long 10 hours i went thru and never a dull moment) i felt such a accomplishment also the online 
 games that come with this game are amazing if you havnt played a good game in a long time give 
 this one a try i think you might say like i have said to so many people "it is the best game ever 
 made" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing the bad thing is that its so good it might be real the next thing you no is 
 were gonna die but thats imposible i just think this game is incredible best grafix loads very 
 fast you can even se the pores on the skin thats wy when ever i play i get scared aaaahhhh lol 
 this game really is incredible this is one of the best game i have well it has the best grafix 
 out of all my games so that makes this game my best game so if you lijke half life you will lik 
 the second half life its that good that you will just go buy it and there you go the best game 
 ever well thats just what i think lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuts24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, the sequel to the awe-inspiring, ground-breaking first person shooter. Though this 
 game only presents a few new features (don't get me wrong, though only a few, they were amazing) 
 it is still as enjoyable as the original. To summarize this game in one word, I would have to say 
 outstanding. No other game, has met its standards, at least not in its genre. Overall the multi 
 player (Counterstrike: Source) is pretty decent, and I can't complain. The new source engine gives 
 this game a unique, one-of-a-kind physics generator. The zero-point energy field manipulator (gravity 
 gun) really supplies fun for a while. This game is everything you could expect from a sequel to 
 the multi-game first-person shooter. In a nut shell, this game will give a valid reason for many 
 shooter fans to spend countless hours in front of a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomasBaravykas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Man this game is the best ever made and there are new maded like Garry's mod I like that mod or 
 RDKF it's funny but still nice to play I Vote 10
  Because I don't think there will be a better game than this well maybe HL2: Aftermath. And still 
 Let's wait for something much bether something much more than all the games to gether. And still 
 I think there canno't be a betther game then this. And still may there be a better game that HL 
 not HL2 but HL :P O and if Garry you read this your mode is the BEST EVER MADE. And I am waiting 
 for a new version :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlascott
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the original, I was bummed with the theft, and the delay prior to this games release. 
 I purposely lowered my expectations. I'm glad I did, because I enjoyed the game much more for having 
 done so. Half-Life 2 had an unfair reputation to live up to.
  
  This is a long, beautiful, fun game that was really the first in a fps to have a high level of 
 physics and environment-interaction. And not just for show -- the physics are part of the game -- you 
 need to move things around, and picking up crates as a shield and such make tough levels a breeze, 
 but it takes out of the box thinking. Which is awesome, because by now, the run and gun thing is 
 rather old.
  
  The levels are interesting and fun. The main villian is a real jerk. The story was intersting, 
 but I would have liked it to be more fleshed out, because it occasionally felt like "Ok, I am going 
 over to this checkpoint now... for what???" There are some great moments in this game, interesting 
 locales, and real challenges. Not quite as groundbreaking and bizzare as the original, the action 
 here takes place mostly in mundane environments against human or humanoid foes.
  
  Only downside is that because of the delay, the graphcs engine is no longer a hands-down best in 
 class. Doom3, FarCry and FEAR have comparable or better engines. But I still prefer the HL2 look, 
 and the physics and gameplay are tops. HL2 also scales well, so you can play it on an older system -- which 
 CANNOT be said for Doom3 or Farcry. And it is a great engine, no doubt, just not the world beater 
 it would have been if released in 2004.
  
  A great, fun game. Highly recommended.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richyrichyrichy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  I bought Half-Life 2 with high expectations, and they were exceeded. This game is absoloutely amazing. 
 The gameplay is wonderful with great controls. The graphics are eye-popping. You'll probably think 
 your actually there. It is a must buy for any FPS fan. This game doesn't only require you to have 
 great skill, but also to think through things. There are many times where you have to use your 
 mind to solve problems. Half-Life 2 has an amazing story line. Which will keep you intrested in 
 the game for hours and hours. No only because of the single player, but the multi-player also. 
 As you may know Half-Life 2 comes with Counterstrike: Source, which is a very addicting game that 
 you'll spend hours on. All in All Half-Life 2 is a must buy. It's probably one of the greates FPS's 
 I've ever played. So what are you doing? Go out there and buy Half-Life 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anantha92
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Half Life 1: 1999 game of the year giving awesome graphics and a state of the art physics engine
 
  As you can see sierra and valve made one of the all time known classics, making games such as 
 team fortress, counter strike and day of defeat. All or some of these games are installed in EVERY 
 gaming cafe on this planet.
  And now its 2004 the long awaited "HL2" was released. as said by another review an "Instant Classic". 
 Which is very agreeable. Now sierra re-modded its new car that we have been smelling all these 
 years with a fully new graphics/physics engine. It has rag doll physics a revolutionary HDR technology 
 with an awesome counter strike source multiplayer included. if this was a candy i would die of 
 diabetes. A classic from its launch and has set a new direction on upcoming first-person shooters. 
 Very well done sierra and valve may HL3 be as revolutionary as its 2 predeccesors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meagar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, like it's predecessor, is a amazing example of how to do a First Person Shooter right. 
 Great FPS game play and a solid story are supported by great AI, weapons, physics, facial expressions, 
 lip syncing, and voice acting. Every aspect of this game just screams quality.
  
  The engine could be written off as yet another incremental improvement in FPS gaming, but it is 
 a very important increment: Never have video games of any genre presented such life-like locations, 
 actors and physics. HL2's graphics are truly astounding, showcasing the work of some truly great 
 artists. The attention to detail in every aspect of each level has yielded some of the most life-like 
 surroundings ever seen in video games.
  
  Game play features familiar Half-Life weapons with some new additions that will serve you well 
 in the battle against the Combine hoards. Expertly crafted levels will really pull you in, and 
 you'll be sorry when the game ends unexpectedly, and a little too soon.
  
  A really great ambient sound track perfectly complements each area of game play. There are some 
 really great sound effects, including gunfire muffled by distance, truly blood-curdling zombie 
 screeching, and all clinks and thuds you'd expect in a world populated by a thousand little objects 
 you can pick up or knock over.
  
  On a less positive note, fans of the original Half-Life, which ended on a massive cliff-hanger, 
 will be disappointed by the lack of plot resolution. By the end of the game, we have no more answers 
 then we had at the end of Half-Life, and we have a whole new set of questions to boot. Guess we'll 
 have to wait for Half-Life 3 to finally figure out what exactly is going on.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a truly great FPS, and worthy of any collection. You'd be doing yourself a disservice 
 if you didn't pick up this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud30236
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This games sets a benchmark for what this genre needs. What really seals the deal is when you get 
 that gravity gun. When that happens, all hell breaks loose. The music that plays when something 
 big was about to happen just sent shivers down my back because I had no idea what was waiting around 
 the corner. The physics are also nicely done and gives you that satisfaction when you drop heavy 
 objects from a crane on top of the combine. There is no doubt that HL2 is one of the best PC games 
 ever and will live on for decades to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike757
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This Game I a little bit like the original Half Life, but the graphics are revolutionary. I think 
 this game didn't get all of the hype and attention that it deserves. I think that this is quite 
 possibly the best game every made!
  If you look at the jump in graphics from Half Life (2001) and Half Life 2 (2004) can you imagine 
 the graphics for Half Life 3?!?!? They will like playing virtual Reality or maybe it will be virtual 
 reality? who knows? we will have to sit back and enjoy the amazing and revolutionary graphics and 
 gameplay of Half Life 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d0ggey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Only a small amount of games acheive what Half-Life 2 acheives. This game is by far the greatest 
 FPS out there not only does it have amazing graphics, a great storyline and gameplay that will 
 get you hooked on this game for hours it has steam, steam really lengthens the lifespan of this 
 game, it gives you free downloadable content such as th new Half-Life 2 the Lost Coast game with 
 HDR, demos from HL2 mods like: darwinia, rag doll kung foo. This game is really worth your money 
 because with the bronze package not only do you get HL2 you get the greatest online game ever Counter 
 Strike Source. Now that I have gone through the extras I will enlighten you with how great the 
 real game is, this game is so easy to get to grips with it doesnt need a tutorial you can just 
 run straight into the action all guns blazing and once you do you will never be able to turn your 
 PC off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platformer911
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Simply Perfect.
  Half-Life: One. Good 'Ol Half-Life. GOTY by many, many publishers. You could almost say it changed 
 the world. But sadly it didn't because THAT was half-life 2's job.
  Graphics - Simply stunning. Amazing detail in every single part of them world. The interior of 
 buildings the exterior the enemies the allies the everything!
  Gameplay - very good, plenty of weapons (Gravity Gun!) and excelent control schemes.
  Sound - 
 Extremely good. The sound the striders make kick seriouse ass!
  Value - Coming with CS: S and Deathmatch you'll be playing this game for a while.
  Final thought 
 - No matter what anyone says and no matter what you think you MUST try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fosky000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  First off, i'm very picky when it comes to first-person type of games. usually you beat it once 
 your bored with it and then soon after uninstalling it. with this game i've played it afew times 
 just because its so bad-a$$!!!! LOL the graphics are awesome and the physics of it are incredible. 
 most games you shoot a guy and thats it. in HL2 if you do a head shot they actually react to it 
 in that way instead of the same reaction as a shot to anyother part. the only part that dissappointed 
 me alittle was the weapons. not many to choose from, they are fun but variety is always fun when 
 goin into a ambush. lol Bottom line, this game is worth the money and time. and with the same type 
 of ending as other HL i hope there will be another to blow this one out of the water.:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game is totally worth buying for all you FPS fans, or any "amazing storyline fans." The single 
 player missions, or should i say, mission of this game is amazing. the game starts out as you are 
 woken up in what seems to be another dimension, by some man you may recognize from the first half 
 life. he still has no name, but fans of the first refer to him as "G-man" or government man, because 
 he appears to be dressed as an official business man. look closely as you play, because among the 
 brilliant scenary you may spot him watching your progress as you fight the combine for freedom 
 of the humans. the combine are apparently a race from another dimension, the dimension you ripped 
 open in the first half life. thats about all you know other than, theyve taken over the world and 
 now you hav to help free the concentration CITY of City 17, numbered probably for the combines 
 own reference. this is one of the best parts of the story, its left EXTREMELY OPEN!!! you dont 
 know who sent you, you dont know how you got there, you dont know why your there (but you soon 
 find out) and you dont know how you get back out (which you will see what i mean at the end) there 
 is an expansion planned, and if youve even contemplated buying this game, you definatly should, 
 no matter the price. it also comes with a free copy of counter strike source, but more on that 
 in another review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sum_more_4_me
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is the best FPS sine the original half life
  
  Half life 2 is simply amazing the graphics provide such incredible realism and the story is so 
 good you just got to play on just to find out what happens next, well im stuck in front of my p. c 
 for hours playing this game.
  
  The original half life was a masterpiece itself and ive got to admit i did prefer it to half life 
 2 but half life 2 just breaks the barrier on realism, im sure a lot of people will agree with me 
 when i say hl2 is amazing.
  
  The A. I is outstanding, i dont know why rumors go round saying it s**t coz it aint. Gamespot should 
 have given this more than a 9.2 i'd say a 10.
  
  An absolute perfect game, a classic this is one which should be remembered for a long time. A MUST 
 BUY ! !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernaine
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  After six years of development and its predecessor Half-Life 2 was expected to be the best first 
 person shooter of all time. Although Half-Life succeeds on multiple levels it just doesn't reach 
 the perfection that Half-Life 1 was, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't play it. 
  
  Half-Life 2 takes place after an unspecified amount of time after the first game. You find yourself 
 in City 17. A city that has been taken over by an alien race called the combine. As you make your 
 way through the city you 
  soon find yourself in the middle of a group of combine police ready to bring you down. Buy all 
 is not lost as you are rescued by Alyx Vance. The daughter of one of the scientists in Black Mesa. 
 You soon are reunited with your friends from the previous game. But after an unsuccessful telaportation 
 you are forced to flee. Thus begins the roller coaster ride that is Half-Life 2. 
  
  Half-Life's graphics have greatly been improved by the Source Engine. Showcasing amazing lighting 
 and wonderful detail in every character. One thing that has been added is the amazing facial expression 
 emoted by the characters. People will look at you and show expressions not seen in video games 
 before. The new physics engine in the game also makes a huge difference. See an enemy standing 
 behind a barrel. Keep shooting at it to knock it out of the way and get him out in the open. And 
 once you get the gravity gun you can really have fun. This gun allows you to pick up any object 
 and shoot it at an enemy. See a buzz saw stuck in the wall. Grab it and cut a zombie in half. This 
 allows for a great amount of strategy and freedom in how to approach a situation. 
  
  The sound is also superb in the game. Bullets have different ricochet sounds for every material. 
 Not to mention that the voice acting is some of the best in video games to date. This really helps 
 to keep the realism up and make you feel attached to the characters in the game. 
  
  That being said Half-Life 2 does have its problems. In the original Half-Life it felt as if the 
 action would never stop. There was always something trying to kill you, thus making it a constant 
 fight for survival. Although Half-Life 2 does do a good job of keeping the action up there it just 
 isn't as good as its predecessor. Also the difficulty has seems to have been toned down. I had 
 little difficulty with this game. I think if the A. I. had been a little bit better it could have 
 helped to keep that intensity that was in the original game.
  
  Overall Half-Life 2 is an excellent game and still is one of the best games to come out in years. 
 But despites Valve's effort it falls just a little short of surpassing the original game. That 
 being said Half-Life 2 is still a must own and an a great time for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FormulaTroll
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The perfect game is a rare find, and personally I'm often amazed at some of the odd glitches and 
 questionable design decisions that make it in to even some of the best games. It's become a hobby 
 of mine to find and gripe about silly little nitpicks. I call them annoyances, and here's my list 
 of them for Half-Life 2.
  
  Half-Life 2 should need no introduction. You reprise the role of physicist Gordon Freeman from 
 the original game, and are thrust into assisting mankind's resistance against an alien suppression 
 force. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is an excellent game. It has almost everything a single-player first person shooter 
 needs: varied weapons, interesting foes, beautiful level design, and stunning graphics. The sound 
 is great too, and really sets the atmosphere. It also throws in two wonderful multiplayer games, 
 Half-Life Deathmatch and CounterStrike: Source. Wonderful additions to the value of the game. If 
 you enjoy first person shooters, you really need to play the original Half-Life, and once you do 
 that, you'll probably really want to play the sequel, and you probably won't be disappointed.
 
  
  But we're not here to kiss this game's butt. We're here to point out some of it's more ridiculous 
 flaws. So let's do that:
  
  In this world of pulse weapons and zero-point energy devices, where the G-man can stop time, and 
 portals to other dimensions are created routinely, mankind's greatest opportunity for technical 
 advancement seems to be in the area of portable illumination, because we haven't yet figured out 
 how to design a flashlight that can run for more than 30 continuous seconds. Come on. If you want 
 to penalize players for using the flashlight, make them easier for enemies to locate or fire upon 
 them. A time limit is just silly, especially one so short.
  
  If a sniper is firing shots into the street almost continually, how short is my squads' memory 
 that they just run out into the open seconds after a shot is fired? And then they just stand there, 
 waiting their turn to get picked off. Note to developers: If you're not going to get the AI to 
 a point that it can't even avoid obvious enemy fire, then give up the squad aspect and focus on 
 something else. And while we're on the topic, it's silly that I can't shoot my squad mates. Now, 
 I'm not some desensitized and morbidly violent gamer who thinks it's funny to kill my squad, but 
 it is silly to not have to worry about friendly fire. I suppose this is just a consequence of the 
 bad AI. They're always in the way, so they'd be killed immediately.
  
  Half-Life 2 spent a long time in development. And it's been available for over a year now. Multiple 
 updates have been rolled out via Steam. So why, why, why, was I unable to jump in the Citadel level? 
 In looking on the Internet, it seems this is a fairly well-known bug. Some people don't experience 
 it, some do. The level requires a jump in two places, and I was stuck using the gravity gun to 
 construct crude ramps out of flat panel displays and human transports in order to get over a 2 
 foot fence because my jump button didn't work, no matter how I reloaded the game or reconfigured 
 the keys. Fix it already!
  
  Finally, I shouldn't have to gripe about the story in this game. The story is a major part of the 
 Half-Life games and as such should be given a lot of attention and polish by the developer. But 
 I have to gripe about it because even though it's pretty good as you go through it, the ending 
 comes up pretty quickly and with very little revelation, which makes it also very bad. Why were 
 none of the major questions left at the end of the original game answered here? How freaking greedy 
 are you people? Throw us a bone dammit. This game made the first season finale of Lost look good. 
 And the season finale sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is one of the most impressive games that i have ever played , begining with character 
 design and their background history that makes you care for them like they are real persons , the 
 characters are well designed and theres a story so intriguing that you will find yourself sitting 
 there for hours plying the game through the end just to see if there will be a happy ending.
  
  Half-Life 2 introduced us the source engine which means awesome physics in the game , practically 
 everything you touch is affected.
  
  Half-Life 2 opens a door to the world where your actions while sitting in front of the computer 
 affect everything in the game.
  
  Not only that it introduced some new enemies and allies , many plot twists and weapons , making 
 Half-Life 2 a game to remember for generations to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insane_Suicider_69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  Awesome gameplay, stunning graphics, amazing world and powefull guns to kick ass!! This is the 
 way i like to discribe Half Life 2. The way the game starts is straight forward and as soon as 
 you have a gun, the whole game is like a roller coaster, its a heck of ride that you should ride. 
 But rides come with some bad bits too. What i really think that sucks about the game has very little 
 to do with the game, it has to do how the game starts up when you want to play it, this STEAM program, 
 so buggy and so many updates and slow speed downloads are very annoying. STEAM has to be the worst 
 program in the world, but you can play without a CD thanks to STEAM, so i guess it balances out. 
 Overall I think that this is the best game I have ever played. Its not one of those games that 
 you beat once and do not want to beat it again, its one of the fewest games that you just fell 
 that you should beat around 2 to 3 times because you just cant stop having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhetoaster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Valve got everything right with this game. The gameplay is pure brilliance. When fighting your 
 enemies, you want the battles to keep going, with enemies coming in from everywhere. Also, Valve 
 incorporated the environment nicely into the battles. For example, shooting explosive barrels to 
 cause a bridge to explode, resulting in three Combine soldiers to fall to their untimely deaths. 
 The sound is amazing too. The voice acting is so spot on, you'd swear they were real people talking 
 to you. The sections with drivable vehicles are enjoyable too, because their are sporadic areas 
 where you have to get off and go on foot. Overall, this game is revolutionary, maybe not as much 
 as the first, but can define a genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _ax_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:23 am PT
Review:  this is by FAR one of the best games i have ever played in my entire life, my friends are going 
 to kill me when they find out that im playing Half- Life 2 more than halo, thanks to my friend 
 nic, i enjoy this game alot, my faviorite is Garys Mod. it lets you show that throwing people with 
 a physics gun is fun! and because i have nothing else to say: poop poop poop poop poop poop poop 
 poop poop poop poop poop poop poop popoop poop poop poop poop poop op poop poop poop poop poop 
 poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop 
 poop poop poop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brubru722
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 has to be one of the best single player games ever. Thats right, EVER. Half LIfe 2 
 is a good challenge for all gamers. Not only is this game a shooter, it is adventure. Many people 
 get confused about that. Actually, the adventure of this game is the best part.
  
  Unlike the other Half Lifes, this has amazingly good graphics. The graphics in Half Life 2 has 
 jumped way more than any other game before. Graphics are a big part in this game. I gave the graphics 
 on Half LIfe 2 a perfect 10 and it deserves it. The makers of this game went all out to make it 
 the very best.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morcegohoman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I think I liked it better when it was Gordon against the world. I wasn't as fond of the second 
 story.... it seemed he had lots of "company" in this one, with the extra allies and all, and I felt 
 I was led through the story rather than discovering the routes myself.
  
  Also, the ending was very easy and generic. Been there, done that.
  
  All the negativity I've 
 stated aside, I still loved it. I love the new engine and the physics, and it was beautiful as 
 well. I'm really happy with Valve in general, and especially the Steam platform. These guys are 
 innovators and I look forward to thier future projects.
  
  And including Counter-Strike: Source as the multi-player was soooooooooo good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is something I've heard alot about and it's all possitive and then I got the game myself 
 and checked it out. What I saw was a great graphical game with alot of thinking behind it and great 
 invoiments, but... When it came to to combat part I was about to fell in my chair.
  
  The combat in Half Life 2 is something you've all seen before, nothing new there except for the 
 Zero Point Energy Rifle, or the Gravity Gun which makes to able to pick up items and throw it away 
 on enemies, or just move objects to a location you like. 
  
  But the good parts in the game has to be the beginning of it, when you arrive to the City 17 and 
 it all feels so real with the invoiment, it's all really well made and with amazing looking charather 
 models of the civilians and the civil protection guys walking around which is basicly some kind 
 of mean orginazation of clones or something close to that. 
  
  Something that shocked me was that the beginning of the game is the complete same thing as the 
 previous game. It starts up you are in a train, and nobody wants to talk to you, and when you finally 
 reach your goal something goes wrong with the teleport and order from there whole hell has broken 
 loose. But there is some moments you'll keep inside of you like when Dr Kleiners pet-headcrab smacks 
 the computer monitor down and makes a mess and other very neutral moments, but the combat is something 
 you will have a hard time to remember becuase it's just like any other FPS out there except for 
 the great physics engine but that's something you'll probably think more about in F. E. A. R than 
 Half Life 2. 
  
  And also the storyline and replay value is very poor in this game, I hoped for a much deeper story 
 in Half Life 2. And when you've played it through once you will most likely just check around the 
 first maps again just to bring back some great moments but after a 15, 20 hours you'll probably 
 but the game away and play multiplayer which is something that could have been so much better, 
 they throw in just 2 maps in multiplayer and one mode to play, but if you really like Sierra and 
 doesn't want to critic them you could download mods and new maps from everywhere. But the multiplayer 
 is also a bit disapointing with the lack of modes and maps but I guess they threw in CounterStrike: 
 Source in there just to cover their wounds and think nobody would notice their mistake. But Half 
 Life 2 focuses on Single Player and it's a fair experience but leaves many wishes unfilled and 
 when it tends to the vechicle driving parts it's just about driving around in a way too long time 
 and tends to be very frustrating and slow and the vechicle design isn't something special either. 
 
  
  But Half Life 2 is a game that everyone should check out, even if it doesn't match up to it's great 
 publicity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is clearly the game of the year. It's more polished, refined and spit-shined than any 
 game since StarCraft. The areas where it's lacking, like the installation and authentication issues, 
 or multiplayer, are clearly not the focus of the game. The most remarkable thing about Half-Life 
 2 is that it manages to perfectly recapture that magical feeling from the original of being there. 
 City 17 feels like part of a complete world, with people adapting to the rigors of life there, 
 with a nascent rebellion coming to fruition, with Combine cameras flying around taking pictures 
 of everyone, the voice of dispatch calling in extra troops to the scene of a Civil Protector's 
 death - it's completely believable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyP10
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  You are Gordon Freeman, an average scientist turned makeshift hero when the pressure's on. After 
 surviving the Black Mesa incident, you've been in stasis of sorts for an unknown amount of time. 
 But now it's time to wake up, as the G-Man commands, to wake up and smell the ashes.
  
  On many levels, Half-Life 2 is one of the best FPS games to come around in ages. While it's not 
 quite as groundbreaking as Half-Life 1, it succeeds greatly in improving on every aspect, refining 
 the gameplay, while keeping the Half-Life feel completely intact. The gunfights are grander, the 
 NPCs are more useful, the locations are scarier, and the environments are realer. Gameplay wise, 
 Half-Life 2 succeeds greatly all around. The Havok physics feel outstanding and are put to great 
 use in the Source engine.
  
  The quality of the graphics will largely depend on your personal taste. While the game looks stunning 
 in motion, it does tend to show the age of the engine compared to games such as Halo 2 or Doom 
 3. While I would easily say Half Life 2 looks far better than Doom 3, it's not nearly as technologically 
 advanced and this may deter some. Once you get playing with the physics and see the amazing blood 
 splatters and combat however, it's hard to find fault. From the large vehicle levels to the urban 
 combat, Half Life 2 is incredible and grand in scale.
  
  Unfortunately, Half Life 2 isn't the flawless masterpiece many magazines proclaim it to be. In 
 fact, it's quite flawed in many aspects. If you can't get past the stuttering issue that Valve 
 is still yet to fix a whole month later, then the game will be quite unplayable. Loading screens 
 will frequently break up the action in the most horrible of times, and take ages to pass. It's 
 just dang disappointing to see such a stupid issue as several mid-level loading screens in these 
 days. Another thing that disappointed me that I'll point out is the inability to kill NPCs, smearing 
 the walls with NPCs was one of the best parts Half-Life.
  
  Finally, Steam is the worst thing to ever come to gaming. It's an utterly horrid control system 
 taking away every single right from the gamer and giving it to Valve. In general, Half Life 2 is 
 indeed a great game and wonderful experience, despite having a few flaws like loading. However, 
 the experience surrounding Half Life 2 like Valve's delays, inability to fix problems, Steam, and 
 various other issues have been horrid. I won't knock the game for outside issues, but while the 
 Half Life 2 experience is great, the surrounding experience has been utterly flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cei13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:58 am PT
Review:  After being truly astounded (and terrified) by the original Half-Life, Valve has outdone themselves. 
 HL2 isn't quite as scary as the original, but it more than makes up for it in other ways. The graphics 
 on this game are just unbelievable! I have never seen water effects so realistic in a game before. 
 Everything about this game reeks of realism, from the weapons damage to the physics. The physics 
 are truly amazing. Objects, especially bodies, move in truly realistic fashion. The first time 
 I shot a Combine soldier and he fell off a ledge, bouncing and flopping all the way down, my jaw 
 was on the floor. The physics modelling also makes for some great puzzles. They are just difficult 
 enough to keep your brain working without giving you a migraine. The bridge sequence where you 
 have to walk on the girders is not for those who have acrophobia, that's how much this game sucks 
 you in. The sound effects are incredibly well done, especially if you have surround sound. The 
 sound of the wind in some areas is so good you think you should feel it in your hair. The only 
 downside to this game, and it isn't really, is that you do need a lot of horsepower to make it 
 look good. However, that is to be expected for graphics this realistic. When I played the demo, 
 I had an ATI 8500 LE w/128 MB RAM. That didn't cut it so I upgraded to an ATI X800 PRO w/256 MB 
 RAM and the game runs smooth as silk. This game alone is enough to justify upgrading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moocow21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Six years after the release of Half-Life, the highly acclaimed FPS that won over 50 GOTY awards, 
 Valve released the highly anticipated sequel - Half-Life 2. Does it live up to the original? The 
 answer is yes; and perhaps it surpasses it. 
  
  You begin Half-Life 2 by being awakened by the strange G-man, and find yourself on a train entering 
 City 17 (located somewhere in Europe) . Quickly you realized that a lot has happened since the incident 
 at Black Mesa. An alien force known as the Combine has taken over and supressed Earth (very quickly, 
 with little struggle) . Early in the game you encounter your old companions - Barney, Dr. Kleisner, 
 etc. and you meet the lovely Alex Vance, daughter of Dr. Eli Vance. 
  
  Eventually you end up being tracked down by the entire combine forces in City 17, and start to 
 create a storm of resistance against the alien overlords. The game takes you through various scenarios 
 and situations, often involving puzzles with the games amazing physics engine. On the topic of 
 physics, there is the possibly the most unique weapon ever in a FPS - the gravity gun. It allows 
 you to manipulate objects and launch them at your enemies. Along with the physics engine this game 
 boasts some of the greatest graphics of all time. The character models are fantastic, and the facial 
 expressions are incredibly detailed.
  
  The sound is excellent, whether it be the accurate weapon sounds, or the sounds of striders (50 
 foot tall enemies) striding by. HL2 gives you a good 15-20 hours of gameplay one time through, 
 which is excellent for a single-player shooter. On top of that there is Counter-Strike Source and 
 HL2 deathmatch for multiplayer, which brings great replay value. This is not to mention the thousands 
 of free user-created mods that are available to play like HL2 CTF, Garry's mod, Source Forts, just 
 to name a few.
  
  Half-Life 2 is probably the closest thing to a perfect game I have ever played, as I can find no 
 notable flaws in it. It delivers a solid story, combined with top notch graphics and physics, and 
 infinite replay value. A recommendation to anyone with a PC that can run it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Este juego es como un buen pavo: No tiene presa mala :-D. Es simplemente eso, perfecto, fiel secuela 
 del que fue uno de los juegos que partio la historia de este negocio en dos: Half Life.
  
  Half Life 2 tiene un motor grfico increible, acompaado de uno de los mejores motores fsicos 
 que he visto (por no decir que el mejor) , sonido envolvente muy bien logrado, y un argumento e 
 historia que te mantienen metido en el juego hasta el final.
  
  Algo Malo.???... hmmm dificil, yo hasta ahora no le he visto nada.
  
  Finalmente otra de las 
 cosas que mas me gusto es que no es un gran comedor de mquina, corre bastante bien en mquinas 
 antiguas (1 Ghz) y con tarjetas ya bastante veteranas (FX 5200) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  That's right, the main goal and root of evil in this game is called The Citadel, with similarities 
 to the real life Citadel. In the Team America song, did they say "white slips"? Anyway, this game 
 made me feel like how I felt watching the old Star Wars trilogy compared to the new one. The old 
 Half-Life had a certain feel to the environment, but in this game all of a sudden everything's 
 changed, it doesn't "feel" right, not as a Half-Life game. That aside, the graphics are nice, and 
 the Source engine really makes characters come to life with facial animations and what not. The 
 gravity gun is a good addition to your arsenal and the alien slaves that shot those annoying bolts 
 of electricity at you are now your allies. The physics are very nice, you can pick up stuff and 
 move them, something that many games have attempted to do with limited success (Trespasser for 
 one) . Just picture many upgrades in graphics and NPCs but still fairly easy to play, with the simple 
 task of infiltrating The Citadel. What turned me and others off to the game is the plot. In the 
 first Half-Life, you knew what was going on and the ending leaves room for more. The player is 
 still left asking many questions such as where, when, what, why, who, how, etc. There are many 
 questions and I didn't feel nearly as I did into the story as I did with the first one. I expected 
 more of the story to unravel towards the end, but instead it left me asking me. Very frustrating 
 needless to say, it has reached the point of annoyance. Valve take note: audiences don't like being 
 toyed around with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeguy220022
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  You see tons of PC shooters all the time, but this one has story, game play and runs smooth. I 
 played this game until i beat it. Everyday i got on the computer and played this for hours. I guess 
 you could of said i did not have a life at this point. Then I beat it messed around with the bad 
 multiplayer and then waited. I am still waiting. Waiting for Half-Life 2 Aftermath. In the mean 
 time i will go back and play Half-Life 1. It is still a great game. Also i get demo and updated 
 level from Steam. Steam is an anti-steal program. Its really cool because you can try and buy games 
 online with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chihuahua1990
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  i finf half life a great game 
  the storyline is great and the graphix are almost perfect but there are some flaws like , if you 
 shoot bodies the bulletholes dont appear
  and i want if i shoot something dead that it bleeds some more :D
  the strylib\ne is a bit strange 
 in the end when you destroyed the black fusion reactor but im looking forward to part 3 only because 
 of the end
  what i say is a great and thought over piece of work but all this is my opinion 
  do you not 
 agree with what stands above just post it to me and i want to know what you find different 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rocks29
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is probably my favourite First Person Shooter games on the PC. It is definetly a great 
 sequal to the original Half Life, with lots of improvements. The first time I played this game, 
 I couldn't believe the graphics were so good and the physics in the game were so realistic. This 
 game is VERY realisitic, which makes it much more intensive. 
  
  Half Life 2 also has a great storyline, Gamespot may have not liked it, but i sure did. The story 
 of the game keeps you playing on to find out what happens next and it keeps you very immersed and 
 wondering. 
  
  Half Life 2 is one of the best FPS games on the PC, if you like shooting games and have a high-end 
 PC, you have to get this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yossimitsu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  Half Life, for me, is a milestone. Every FPS game is compared with how good it is compared to half-life. 
 I love FPS and I played my share, but half-life is a classic and not because of the graphic and 
 effects, but because of the believable story and characters. Although HL2 lacks a bit in the story, 
 especially at the end, it is still a magnificent sequel to the first one, which at the time was 
 also a great milestone. 
  The graphics in HL2 are amazing and special care was taken to show the expressions of each character 
 in the game, which gives more depth to the characters. Everything from the light, reflections and 
 physics is beautifully made. There are some games that can be compared to HL2 concerning graphics, 
 like Far-Cry and maybe F. E. A. R, but something about HL2 makes you want to get back to it and seeing 
 the new demo from valve I think a great deal is to be expected in the future.
  The acting is great and the sound is just right. The music gives you just the right adrenaline 
 without overtaking the atmosphere completely. 
  The only thing that I found a bit disturbing was the lack of AI from the opposing forces which 
 makes the game too easy and not as thrilling as it could have been.
  The installation is a bit of a headache with the steam engine and all (especially if you bought 
 the 5-disk installation) , but once it is installed, there are no problems and you get your updates 
 without too much bother. Believe me, the game is worth every penny. 
  Buy this game and enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingzero2512
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is just incredable. The graphics are gorgous. The story is like "OMG THE STORY IS LIKE 
 SO GOOD!" The replay value isn't that great for me, mainly because im a online type of guy. Many 
 mods for the game. Nice Nice Nice.
  
  This game is like wow, when i saw the official video at a local internet cafe i was so giddy. When 
 i got this game on x-mas day. Wow that feeling of do something exciting like running from that 
 lady that owned the convienent store you just stole some chips from. Of course i didn't feel like 
 that. 
  The physics are a really nice feature the graphics are amazing. I've seen better but it was just 
 was i've been wanting to play. The sound. To fully enjoy the sound you need a 5.1 surrsound speaker 
 set. If you don't try the zalman headset because the audio and sound effects are enjoyable to the 
 max, but when you play some multiplayer time to get the steelpad 5h. The story is very deep and 
 movie like. I don't have much to say but, get half life 1, play it. get halflife 2 play it. and 
 say omfg wow. then play cs 1.6 :D G man is still a gangster :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtkent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of Half-Life and it's related games like Blue Shift, but I waited for the price 
 to come down a bit before I jumped at Half-Life 2. But it was worth the wait. The graphics are 
 out standing. The sound track is very good. The game play is better than the original with lots 
 of new weapons to play with. And, the weakest area of the game, the story is interesting, but weaker 
 than in original Half-Life.
  
  My only complaint is the ending was a bit of a let down. After spending sometime and trouble battle 
 to the enemy base, I felt like the base was way to easy beat and was more like one big cut scene 
 than a part of the game.
  
  All that being said, I highly recommend the game. Check it out.
  
  One other note, I love the 
 game but I hate Steam, the engine used to license and check the license of the game during play. 
 It is a bit intrusive and very annoying. I wish Valve would have done a better job stream-lining 
 there license process. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DekuBoy5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  The concept of Halo 2 is the continuation of the cliffhanger and the end of Halo. Halo ended with 
 the ultra warrior, The Master Chief, escaping from the destruction of Halo. Halo is a sacred 
 ring of land that can destroy almost every living thing in existence. The reason Halo exists is 
 to destroy the Flood. The Flood is a race composed of host bodies taken over by a zombie-making 
 virus. The Flood is unlike regular zombies in essence that they can run and easily wield any weapon. 
 The main reason he ended up on Halo was because the Covenant, a race of religious aliens, was tracking 
 him down. Even they fear the Flood. The concept of Halo 2 is the defense of Earth at first, but 
 then the Master Chief ends up trying to stop the activation of Halo.
  
  The concept of Half Life 2 is extremely complicated. But in a nutshell, there is a hybrid super 
 race called the Combine. The Combine were able to find Earth from the massive energy that came 
 from Earth after a secret testing facility called Black Mesa failed at a teleportation experiment. 
 The main character, Gordon Freeman, was stranded at Black Mesa. Luckily, some marines showed up, 
 but unfortunately, it turned out to be a cover up. After tons of battles with aliens from the new 
 portal storms and marines, Gordon Freeman is captured by the GMAN and dropped into City 17. This 
 is a new world; the Combine conquers humanity. Humanity lasted 7 hours before their surrender. 
 Gordon Freeman must now fight tons of enemies and trek through out this new world as he tries to 
 help the rebellion.
  
  Halo 2 has some truly beautiful visuals. The details on enemies are detailed to the teeth and scales. 
 When the cut scenes are good, they are visual stunning. It is the definition of sensory overload. 
 But, most of the cut scenes have rendering problems, which takes you away from the action and makes 
 you do a double take.
  
  Half Life 2 has the best graphics. Enough said. They wield the newest of graphics engines. This 
 creates amazing facial emotions and stunning environments. Whether youre fighting a horde of Antilions, 
 or trekking through the canals of the ruined Earth, the beauty will dazzle you.
  
  Halo 2 has some truly unforgettable scores of music that really set the scene for battle. The original 
 orchestral theme of music has been redone to include wicked guitar solos and angelic singing. The 
 battle sound effects are well done. Every weapon, thats right, every weapon sounds real and very 
 deadly. Even the alien weapons sound real. 
  
  Half Life 2 has some very good techno music, but the main problem is that its barely used. Its 
 like keeping a golden statue in the closet. But the lack of music does allow the environment sounds 
 to shine. The sound effects are very professional. The sounds of the guns firing are better than 
 Halo is a sense that they change with distance and there is more variety. The creepy speech of 
 the masked Combine is unforgettable. Also, the newly created creatures such as the Striders have 
 some legendary sounds. Anyone who has played the game will shudder at the sound of a Strider opening 
 its main cannon. 
  
  Halo 2s playability is like you are actually slaughtering countless hordes of grunts and aliens. 
 The controller seemingly melts in your hand as you disappear into the world of Halo 2. There are 
 some slight annoyances, such as the Duel Wield system, but all and all, the playability of this 
 game is phenomenal.
  
  Half Life 2s playability was great for a game on the computer. A lot of the time, computer games 
 get poor playability because of the difficult controls on the keyboard. But a combination of good 
 hotkeys and lots of customizable controls and adjustments. 
  
  Halo 2 has great entertainment, but the story is short and bad. Also, it leaves on the largest 
 cliffhanger I have ever scene in my life. Really, the game is way too short, and the levels are 
 nearly as long as the ones in Halo 2. But if you dont mind the lack of game time, youll have 
 a great experience. The game play does get repetitive after awhile. Seriously, you can only mow 
 down legions of alien crusaders so many times before you yearn for more. The spectrum of difficulty 
 settings really makes it possible for any gamer to play. Easy difficulty really is pitiful, and 
 the legendary difficulty is nearly impossible. Enemies are godlike and extremely intelligent.
 
  
  Half Life 2 nearly perfects entertainment. The story is medium length, and the game play is constantly 
 changing. Youll go from running from the Civil protection, to riding through the canals, to fighting 
 off a zombie infested town, to riding a buggy through the ruins of Earth, to leading Antilions 
 to break into a maximum security prison, to leading rebels to break into a suppression headquarters, 
 to finally using a gravity gun to pick up people and throw them at their army buddies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: traumahawk_2003
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I have played Half life 2 for a year and a half now and still like the story and graphics. Gordon 
 is fun to play as and the game itself is huge. It took a while to get used to the controls but 
 after learning them it was a fun game to play. Many first person shooters make you jump, crawl, 
 run or squat too much but in this game it's not the case. The weapons are good, although I wish 
 there were more to choose from, and the player interaction is fun too. I think the graphics are 
 good and the game a hit that is suitable for all ages to play. It may be a continuation of another 
 game but, trust me this game stands alone and you will not be dissapointed playing it. The price 
 has come down and makes it a bargain at todays prices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcdude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in every way except for it's replay value, sure the fighting is very fun but 
 the maps are small and all the enemies do esentially the same thing everytime. After 2 times through 
 the game and around 5 times through your favorite parts you'll likely drop it. Unless you download 
 the multiplayer version which gives you ultimate lasting appeal. Also, there are many annoying 
 puzzles and such that will prevent you from playing the whole game through too many times plus 
 a complete lack of unlockables. 
  **** gizebgar atulj; jaurp atgar twqer 1235432 but I've been hitting it with his wife for 12! She 
 likes her some chocolate, ya know what I'm saying? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekophl
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, one of the best, no, THE BEST game i have ever played in my whole life, the whole 
 atmosphere of a police state controlled by a mega-puppet-government is amusing. The design team 
 have done LOTS of work on this, they mainly used warm colors and tones in the game, and have managed 
 to make me -and so many players- positively shocked.
  
  In my opinion, one of the greatest levels in the game is the first level, in City 17, where you 
 see the oppression, the propaganda, the control, the brainwashing, how people are arrested, I mean, 
 yes, I was shocked! It kind of looks like the oppression going in any area of the world, now, and 
 in past history. Someone was doing WIDE research in the development team.
  
  I have played the first level about 50 times, seriously, 50! I just can't get enough of the photo-realistic 
 gameplay, and the oppression.. NO ONE had ever done this before, this game is one of a kind, I 
 hope there will be more games like this.
  
  All aspects of the game are extremely wicked, the interaction of the characters is pretty shocking, 
 I really felt that I was talking to real life characters, and seriously sympathized for some of 
 them. I've never felt that I would be THAT affected of a PC game.
  
  And the Sound! I mean, if the sound was messed up I wouldve understood that they spent time working 
 on other areas but, overall, it's amusing.
  
  I give it a thumbs up, the best game I have EVER played.
  
  Bravo Valve, Bravo Sierra, Bravo 
 G-Man, Bravo Mr. Freeman, Bravo Lamarr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meo2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in HL2 is amazing. It's always fresh and rarely repedative. Interacting 
 with the enviorment is really fun and something that you can only do in Half-life 2. The storyline 
 is one of the best that there is as far as games go.
  
  Graphics: HL2's graphics are better than any other game ever made, 'nuff said.
  
  Sound: The 
 sounds make you feel like you are really in the game. The noises that the zombies make are really 
 impressive. The combine soliders and their walky-talky kind of noises are well done and makes it 
 feel very realistic.
  
  Value: For $40-$50 you get Half-life 2, which is worth $50 itself. Then you get Counter-Strike: 
 Source, which is also wother $50 itself. And then there is the constant steam updates that you 
 get wich just make the game even better. Oh and did i mention all the mods? I can't see why gamespot 
 didn't give this game the value of 10.
  
  Tilt: this is one of the best game ever, it deserves the highest score i can give it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivicKid550
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Even though the sequel doesn't live up to the originality or storytelling that Half-Life (1998) 
 layed out, Half-Life 2 is still a must-have for the PC gamer. You may be confused at the beginning 
 of the game but the story gets a little clearer as you progress. Half-Life 2 is unlike anything 
 I've ever played. The game has a very "unique" feel to it but that's a VERY good thing. Unlike 
 the first Half-Life, the sequel takes place mostly in outdoor environmetns such as cities and small 
 towns. This was good considering that the "Black Mesa" complex (in the first HL) was mostly underground. 
 Overall, HL2 is a very solid game and must be owned by anyone who has played and loved the first 
 game. Two thumbs way up here.
  
  My System Recommendations: (At least)
  
  2.0ghz processor
  512MB RAM
  nVIDIA - GeForce 6600
  ATi - Radeon X1200
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefvsGordon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 11:24 pm PT
Review:  THE XBOX VERSION HAS TONED DOWN GRAPHICS AND NOT AS LONG OF LEVELS. WELL BACK TO THIS REVIEW , THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. FIRST OFF ALMOST EVERYTHING HAS ITS OWN UNIQUE SOUND AND MASS WHEN YOU PICK IT UP. YOU 
 COULD TOUCH AND MOVE ALMOST EVERYTHING, THE FACE MODELS ARE THE MOST REALISTIC I HAVE EVER SEEN 
 SINCE SPLINTER CELL CHAOS THEORY. GREAT VARIETY OF GUNS TOO. MY FAVORITE THE GRAVITY GUN LETS YOU 
 PICK UP AND THROW ALMOST EVERYTHING. GAME PLAY IS FUN WITH A GREAT VARIETY OF PUZZLES AND MISSIONS. 
 ALSO THE A. I. IS PRETTY SMART CONSIDERING THE FACT THAT SOME OF THEM ARE ZOMBIES. ANOTHER THING 
 ABOUT THEM IS THAT SOME OF THE MONSTERS MAKE FUNNY NOISES WHICH YOU WILL ENJOY, OR THESE NOISES 
 MAY FREAK YOU OUT. AT THE PRICE ITS AT RIGHT NOW I HIGHLY RECOMMEND PICKING UP THIS GAME. YOU DO 
 NEED A FAST ENOUGH COMPUTER THOUGH ,NO YOU DON'T NEED AN ALIEN WARE I HAVE HP PAVILION AND IT WORKED 
 FINE. IF YOU DON'T GOT A FAST COMPUTER THEN I DON'T KNOW WHY YOU ARE READING THIS OR GET IT FOR 
 THE XBOX, OR JUST SHOOT YOURSELF IN THE FOOT BECAUSE YOUR MISSING OUT ON A GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddiebone
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to believe that, prior to Half-Life 2, Valve had really made only one game. Of course, 
 it was a masterpiece. Half-Life single-handedly reinvented the first-person shooter, putting the 
 emphasis on cinematic pacing and complete immersion in the experience. As a result, it paved the 
 way for many of the outstanding first-person shooters that have followed. And while there was little 
 question that there would eventually be a sequel, no one could have imagined the long and torturous 
 development process that led to Half-Life 2. Well, it's time to forget about that, because Half-Life 
 2 has arrived. And, in many ways, this big-budget sequel does what it sets out to do: Half-Life 
 2 is a technically amazing, sharply honed first-person shooter that pulls all the tricks that made 
 Half-Life such a beloved experience. With that said, many of those tricks feel more than a bit 
 familiar now, and the game itself is saddled with a disappointing story. Still, that doesn't stop 
 Half-Life 2 from being a very impressive and engaging shooter, and a faithful follow-up to one 
 of the greatest PC games of all time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey1982
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! I strongly recommend this game, the system requirements
  are good enough to run on a laptop! I don't know what learning curve means
  and i beat the game 
 with cheat codes. This game is more addicting than a
  cigarette wrapped in bacon! This game is truly one man's odyssey to his
  own personal nirvana. 
 It is VERY fun to mess around with the game's
  physics. trust me this game is so addicting that you will play this game 
  over and over and 
 over and over and over and over again. And 5.1
  sound quality?! This game is a phenomenon. so buy this game and have a 
  blast playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  The original Half life was great and still is, I often find myself revisiting old games such as 
 HL1, however since HL2 I have no more time for the previous version. HL2 only brings improvement 
 to the table with its top notch graphics and immersive story that draws you in deep the game. Of 
 course Freeman finds himself in a world controlled by a wicked government that is curiously similar 
 to the Nazi regime. The story unfolds like a Hollywood blockbuster keeping you on the edge and 
 fighting your way through the massive environment all thought its not really a free roaming environment 
 I never found myself frustrated with the linear progression. The weapons are all pretty neat in 
 their own way & especially the gravity gun which enable you to use just about any object as a projectile, 
 as well as grabing heal and ammo packs that would be otherwise out of your reach.
  I recommend HL2 highly to anyone who likes action shooters with some sci-fi mixed in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacfrost1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:52 pm PT
Review:  You are Gorden Freeman, a trigger happy scientist who's been teleported to
  a mysterious place called city 17 and every person that can aim a gun, as
  well as a few other 
 things seem to be after you. You are not defenceless though, (obviously) lay the smack down on 
 the baddies with weapons like
  shotguns, SMG's, magnums and the zero point energy manipulation gun
  AKA the gravity gun, with 
 this you can pick up anything that isn't nailed down
  and shoot it at your foes, things like saw blades bricks and explosive 
  barrels. There are two 
 times in the game that you be able to pilot a vehicle
  but these instances can get boring quickly. The physics in the game are AMAZING and the enemy A. I. 
 is jaw-dropping, they will flank you, trick you,
  and sometimes overwhelm you. There are alot of puzzles in the game that
  mostly have something 
 to do with the games physics engine and can get tedious at times and the jumping is annoying especially 
 in the puzzles but
  you will get use to it after awhile but overall it's a great game, (if you can get
  it installed) 
 now go out and buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DudeThatLikesPi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I've got to say, I don't love writing reviews for games I haven't completed, but I must say, this 
 game is great.
  
  The Good: Wonderful graphics, awesome gameplay, hundreds of innovations, all those innovations 
 aren't shoved into your face all at once, they're spread out through the whole game, cool and dark 
 storyline, and awesome modificationss.
  
  The Bad: No cinematics, you need a GREAT graphics card to play it to its full potential, very short.
 
  
  Back when I was a hardcore RPGer I never gave a second glance to Half-Life 2... But I decided I'd 
 buy it a month or two ago and I've been hooked since. The game is very scary, I must say, and my 
 week constitution can't really stand beating the part I am at now, and right now am playing mods.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Perfect gameplay. FPS gameplay brought to its full potential. Each shot is satisfying, even if 
 you miss... You need to come back for more. At one point you're charging at police with a crowbar 
 but at the next corner you're shooting them with a weak pistol! One thing I must criticize is the 
 fact that a CROWBAR does more damage than a PISTOL. The game gets really fun when you start to 
 fight aliens and not just metro police. Before you know it you're shooting through the water on 
 an airboat, or cutting up some freakin' headcrabs (God, I hate those things) with your SMG. It's 
 very fun!!
  
  Story: 8/10
  Not the perfect storyline. I can't really explain it that well... The Combine have taken over and 
 the rebels need some strong-ass dude to help them kill the Combine, and Gordon Freeman is exactly 
 the badass to carry out that duty.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Let me just start out with saying: My computer is awesome. It runs almost everything perfectly... 
 But my video card isn't awesome, and so I can't play Counter-Strike: Source or anything else, just 
 Half-Life 2, HL2: Deathmatch and my favorite: Garry's Mod. Anyway, the graphics for this game are 
 very realistic. I heard that the creators actually used "muscles" on character's faces to make 
 them look realistic. The "cutscenes" use the game's normal graphics but are AMAZING still. Water 
 looks great even on low detail. On low detail, blood looks like a splot of red and dark red, but 
 still looks quite good. Altogether, the graphics rock.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  I hate the music... Sorry, but it's just not good. The solution for this is easy: Turn off music, 
 and put on Yahoo's radio or something. The sound effects are great though! Everything sounds real! 
 When you get hurt by a LOUD explosion your ears ring! It's really cool!
  
  Overall: 9.6/10
  This game is a very good game, and at a great value too! Did you know you can 
 get Half-Life, Half-Life 2, all it's mods/games which use its engine, which totals to about 20 
 games, a value of $200 for $80!? Amazing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the best first person shooter I have played, and it was worth the wait for it to 
 come out. The things that were good on Half life 2 was the graphics and how it got so much better 
 than the first Half Life. The game play on Half Life is the best out of every attribute. The weapons 
 on the game have a good fire power and good graphics on them. But the only bad part about half 
 life 2 is that every difficulty you try are too easy to beat and the enemies are the easiest to 
 kill also. But it does have some hard parts in Half life 2. The game is the best in its series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeninhaBR
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Finally I bought the game I liked very to have that to use they steam it to bring up to date the 
 game. 
  
  Really everything that was said and shown is truth the game has a wonderful grafico. 
  
  Two 
 things was loses a little the delay to load and the difficulty to pilot airboat, I had that to 
 reconfigure my keyboard to improve the pilotage.
  
  The reality of the personages is incrivel, the way as it was real when we have that to move objects 
 of the cenario. 
  
  I believe that our friend Gordon Freeman could have some speaks to interact with the other personages.
 
  
  Already I am in the Black phase East Table, one more time valve if he surpassed in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulvase
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest game ever on PC. This game changed my life because it was so great! This game 
 even thought it took a long to time come out was so worth the wait. Its has amazing graphics and 
 the gameplay is outstanding. Interactions with objects are so realistic. And if you do some action 
 other characters will interact with that action. The weapons are the best, especially the crowbar. 
 The guns are so polished and smooth lookin and when you turn our character your gun moves with 
 it, which i think is so cool. Also when u kill someone there body is like rubber. The bots in single 
 player are a little difficult but you get use to them. The one bad thing, which i thought was that 
 it was not as long as I was hoping for. The first half-life was amazing longer. But thats' what 
 i think.
  
  Anybody who has a great computer should totally get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhuy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:04 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a great game to play with your friends (for them or against them) because it has 
 a lot of weapons and cool maps to play in. when i play it, i laugh a lot because of the cause of 
 deaths (from a normal bullet to a computer fired strait to us) . I recommend you to play it and 
 pass hours in front of the computer.
  The bazooka is a little difficult to handle. It has a laser on it so that after you fire it you 
 can guide it.
  The beast is a litle slow to charge and the arrow its not as quick as a bullet but it kills with 
 one shot.
  Play it as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emis815
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Once more Valve have done it. It have made another world class game. I couldn't get enough of it 
 till I finished it. It is just great game... 
  Graphics are great. It is highly detailed game. If you look at things you can see that every corner 
 has its own details... (ofcorse if you have best graphical options on)
  Storyline is just great. You can easily follow it. It has few interesting points. It is just as 
 you would look movie. And it is cutseene full.
  Gameplay is easy and u can learn it in few seconds. Everything is right next to each other so you 
 don't need to waste time to look at keyboard and then suddenly die... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skrutop
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  I paid: $30
  I would pay: $50
  -----------------------
  Half-Life 2 was one of the most amazing games that I ever played.
  
  First, the graphics are 
 absolutely mindblowing. I have never seen a game that even approaches the level of detail that 
 HL2 does. The character models are exceptionally detailed and realistic. Their animation and facial 
 expressions have to be seen to be believed.
  
  The single-player campaign certainly keeps you on your toes. Enemies drop from the sky, come out 
 of corners, and generally sneak up on you like crazy. However, HL2 does follow pretty much every 
 FPS convention ever. Medpacks are everywhere, there's always more ammo lying around, and you'll 
 bust a lot of crates. Even with these rather cliched conventions, HL2 is still a ton of fun.
  
  Ultimately what I liked best about this game is that it just keeps going like one long level. 
 There aren't cutscenes, separate missions, or jumps to new levels. Basically, you start in City 
 17 and just keep running. It does a good job of dropping you in this world and running you around 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoMercy2000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  I bought this game well after it came out so i only bought it for $40 but now ive played it i wish 
 i pre-ordered. as soon as i took those first few steps of the train i new i was going to be in 
 for a wild ride as the game unfolded. The graphics was the first thing that came to mind when i 
 was walking around the train station throwing cans in grabage bins and so on. the AI of the characters 
 in the game were outstanding and not to mention fun to play with (throwing bottles, crates, cardboard 
 boxes etc) this was one of the few games were as the game progressed it got better and better. 
 i mean i was impressed by just the ride in the hover craft at the start of the game but when i 
 saw the climax at the ending of the game i was just simply blown away. 
  
  Not once through out the entire game was i bored of starting to notice a pattern in the game play. 
 through out the entire game i gets more exciting as you pass through every chapter. My favourite 
 chapter would have to be Welcome To Ravenholm. This chapter is filled with one heart stopper after 
 the next as you fight your way through a fallen neighbourhood crawling with some of the most frightning 
 and disgusting aleins you will ever see. Plus there is nothing better than slicing some kind of 
 half human half alien 100% zombie in half using a gravity gun and what ever is lying around (i 
 tended to go with the operation tables and the flat curcular saws)
  
  I can not stress how much you have to play this game if you havent already played it bacause you 
 will have the ride of your life with this game. And i also cannot think more highly of the people 
 over at Steam and Valve who truly made a masterpeice in game design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csoprano
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I had spent a very long time waiting for the much anticipated Doom 3. When I finally got it, I 
 thought it was amazing. Half-Life 2 though, like the first one blew me away. I currently own all 
 of the next-gen FPS games for the PC. FEAR, Doom3, Quake 4, Swat 4, and Far Cry. I would still 
 say that HL2 is the best. The graphics are amazing as well as the physics. The water and facial 
 expressions are probably the best on any game to date. The music is very emotional and touching, 
 kind has a war time feel to it. The game was well worth the wait. I would recommend that anyone 
 who has the PC to run this game to go buy it! You wont be disappointed. If you don't, upgrade your 
 PC! I got mine for $55 about 6 months ago so you can probably pick it up for about $35-$40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shavez54
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is soooo tight man although at the point of it coming out many people couldnt play it 
 due to the fact that the graphics and physics were amazing and many of our pc's werent powerful 
 enough. great game and many people play it. online is great and gets lots of attention wit hpeople 
 creating there own maps and stuff and the gravity gun is soooo cool but dont forget about the entire 
 gamplay experience was just sooo amazing well i hope a lot of you will start to buy the game more 
 since graphics cards are getting cheaper and better pc's are coming out now and i hipe to see u 
 all on there and well this game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GatorTheGeek
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks!!!!!
  
  
  the story, the weapons, the enviorment, just everything about it rocks, the gameplay is incredible, the 
 weapons sound and are powerfull. do not wait for a price drop anymore, if your a fan of first person 
 shooters go get this game now!!!!!. this game rules. everything about it graphics sound weapons, if 
 you do not buy this game you are weird, and people will know you in public, they will say hey look 
 thats the guy who did not buy hl2 what a loser. so go out and but it now!!!!. if you dont you will 
 be considerd a freak, so what im really trying to say here is, your a complete freak if you dont 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackandWhite0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Half-life 2 has probaly the best gameplay in a FPS. Gone are the days of tedius shoot, reload, 
 walk, shoot, as the days of now feature weaponary that makes it fun to play and enemies that think.
 
  With the Gravity Gun in his hands, Gordon Freeman can do a number of things, including picking 
 up enemies and firing them, activate swiches, move things that block his path and much more!
  The enemies are not only smart, but some can be quite scary. Walking through Ravenholm, seeing 
 a shadow to the right, then a black headcrab lunge at me out of nowhere is intense.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  People saw Doom, thought the graphics were brilliant due to the 3D effect. People 
 saw HL1, thought the graphics were brilliant due to realism. People saw Doom 3, thought the graphics 
 were brilliant due to shadow effects.
  And now people see Half-Life 2, and think the graphics are brilliant due to the stunning realism 
 and stunning physics. 
  No other words for the graphics.... stunning
  
  Sound:
  
  Each person has there own voice pattern, each monster type sounds different, each gun sounds different, 
 heck, every item in the game seems to have its own unique sound.
  
  And the sound, of course, is stunning for all of them.
  
  
  In conclusion: Half-Life 2 is 
 the greatest game since Half-Life 1, it is fully deserving of its GotY awards, and even deserves 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikasta
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:25 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best Fps i have ever played. The Zombies in ravenholm maked me scream of happines 
 and the wepons was so cool!!
  well I can only say: I love tis game!! i can only say yeahooooo i fell in love with this game the 
 first time I played the demo. I love it! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah 
 I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! 
 Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love 
 it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah 
 I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! 
 Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love 
 it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah 
 I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! 
 Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love 
 it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah 
 I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! 
 Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love it!! Yeah I love 
 it!! Yeah I love it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This may be the best game ever to me. The action is none stop. The graphics are top notch. The 
 voice over is amazing. The game is the sequel to one of the best game of all time. ITs starts you 
 off in a train then slowly aniets up the pass of it. Finding Barney getting chased by a striker 
 on the roof. Finally ending up confronted by combined then saved by a kickass girl. You later learn 
 her name is Alex. The game then really takes off. After you meet here you get your havak suit with 
 a few minor upgrades. Which steadies up to the action.
  Alex and all the others sound as real and there face's match their speech well.
  The action is 
 more intence more guns. More fun. So you read my review so if you haven't got it go buy it. Now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Although I've never played the original Half-Life, with all the hype surrounding HL2 I expected 
 something revolutionary or at least exciting. Instead what I got was more of a chore than a game.
 
  
  Gameplay: Substandard FPS Gameplay. Nothing new here. (5)
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are the best part of Half-Life 2. Especially the character models. However, 
 they use the same enemy models over and over and the scenery was drab so I'll give it a 9.
  
  Sound: Repetitive and annoying. (5)
  
  Value: With a short campaign and ho-hum online play, 
 HL2 is lucky to get a 5 in this category.
  
  Tilt: Valve has excellent programmers but lousy game designers. So a 10 for the technical aspect 
 and a 1 for the implementation equals a 5.
  
  The Good: Top notch graphics and facial animations. The grav gun. Short campaign.
  
  The Bad: 
 Boring drudgery. There is no immersion. You never feel connected to the world. It's not intriguing 
 or creepy or fascinating, just dreary and empty. The weapons, environments and enemies are plain 
 and ordinary. The weapons are recycled from the original. Weak ending. Too easy. (I played on hard 
 mode.) Short campaign. Wait, that's a good thing right? Oh yeah, and Steam!
  
  The Bottom Line: This game is worth playing if you got it as a gift and had nothing better to do 
 with your time. Hell, writing this review was about as much fun as playing it. At least it'll boost 
 my rank.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeek0224
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  If you like movies like Equilibrium, AeonFlux, Blade runner... You will love the feel and story 
 of this game. Level after level new and exciting challenges await players. Running in a shooting 
 everything is not always the answer in HL2, which is why the game is great. Another reason is the 
 multi-player capabilities and of course the ever popular Counter Strike: Source. With this combination 
 the game has versatility and re-playability. 
  Enemies are smart and the landscape helps and hinders progress depending on the battles being waged. 
 The "1984" big brother element is defined by the ever present Combine soldiers. Although they are 
 human, the feeling the game produces is one of hate towards the combine martial law society and 
 in turn the combine themselves.
  HL2 also brings in the expected alien/alternate dimension beings. What is not expected is how different 
 the appearance and intelligence factor is for the creatures. Lastly the weapons rock , especially 
 the gravity gun.... what is a gravity gun? Get the game and you know how fun it is to pick up paint 
 cans and shoot them at your enemy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fontes_Makua
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:09 am PT
Review:  It was unbelievable, when I saw it! 
  
  The graphics look GREAT!! Nice usage of textures, and the modeling is just perfect. The environment 
 of the game makes you just wanna go forward, to see what's next. As for the physics... Well, they're 
 darn realistic, what else can I say about it? :P Oh, yeah... It's so natural, that you will forget 
 that it's in there, and use it by instinct!
  
  As for the sound, it fits just right with the environment, to give you the best atmosphere possible. 
 Nothing else to say about that... :P
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as the other FPSs, however, there is the usage of the physics 
 system, Havoc 2.0, to solve many of the puzzles you will find, which is something rare to find 
 in an FPS. Normally, these games just involve "shoot to kill, and go straight forward!!", but HL2 
 makes you use your brains as well, once in a while... XD
  
  There are also those funny moments, for example, the conversations between Gordon (ok, he doesn't 
 speak, but f*ck it) , Alyx, and Eli Vance... That old man is always trying to get those two together... 
 :P Also, the veicles are really funny to drive, especially the buggy, which is practically a roller 
 coaster... :P
  
  Well, it's just like my classification... "Instant classic"!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morithius51
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Two great games in one package. Counter-Strike: Source and Half-Life 2. What more could you ask 
 for? Half Life 2 is by far, the best FPS I have ever played.
  But if you are like me, and are the online gamer, You also have Counter Strike: Source. About the 
 only game I play. Half Life 2 gameplay is completely addictive, although some parts of the game 
 can be tedious. Everything you would expect from a Half Life game and more. Right here. As for 
 Counter Strike: Source, best online FPS ever created. This game is a must have for an PC gamer. 
 Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plays_4_Pants
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Havok - the video game.
  This game starts out great with some really interesting, innovative gameplay... but once you pick 
 up a gun it's the same old same old. Not innovative, not interesting (the story is lame lame lame) , 
 fun at times but 90% of the time it's just havok: the video game. It's a "look what we can do"... congrats 
 on your purchase of that middleware valve, i hope it takes you far.
  If you read a review saying this game is innovative, ignore it. It's just another fps.
  If you 
 read a review that mentions halo... ignore it
  If you read a review that mentions the story being anything other than dull, ignore it.
  if you 
 read a review saying the graphics are bad and the facial animations weren't short of spectacular... ignore 
 that too.
  If you read a review saying the grav gun is not the coolest gun ever, ignore that... cause the grav 
 gun was the game. And that was fun for a while. How long will havok entertain you? Well it entertained 
 me for about 15 minutes every couple of days. It's a gun... not a game. The gun was innovative, 
 the game is not.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronaldmonster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  Well i'll say this half life was good half life 2 two took what made half life so awsome and bumped 
 it from 10 to 100 i have never played such fps in my life and i dont think i ever will again i 
 mean how good can one game be to where all the the other Fps i have played afther that i have to 
 give them a strange look when i play if that dosn't tell how good this game is nothing can now 
 go buy this game! i mean how many games with puzzles in them can you actually say are fun to try 
 and figure out? i bet you have a hard time thinking about it aren't you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_jonbaker
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a remarkable sequel to the original and proves once again that Valve has what it 
 takes to create another ground-breaking game. Like the original, Half-Life 2 is an extremely immersive 
 and fun to play single player game. Also, the intense multiplayer deathmatch is also equally addicting.
 
  
  Graphically speaking, the game is very cutting edge with crisp and real graphics rendered nicely 
 in the games Source engine. Along with the superb graphics, the physics and interaction between 
 the player, enemies and objects throughout the entire game are stunningly accurate and make the 
 experience that much more gripping and life-like. Valves attention to detail marks this release 
 as a stellar release: 10/10 in my book.
  
  Also included with the game is the fully operational Source SDK allowing savvy enthusiasts to 
 create modifications (MODs) to the game. Users can modify the existing Half-Life 2 single player 
 game or create an entirely new one from scratch. There is also the ability to MOD the online multiplayer 
 deathmatch game as well. Valve certainly has gaming/programming junkies taken care of with the 
 release of SDK.
  
  Thanks for the terrific game and excellent SDK, Valve. Weve waited a long time  but it has been 
 worth the wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DumassBarb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!!
  THIS GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! THIS GAME 
 IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! THIS GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! THIS 
 GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! THIS GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! THIS 
 GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! THIS GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! THIS 
 GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! THIS GAME IS AWSOME. The GRAPHICS BLOW MY MIND. PLEASE.. GET THIS GAME!
  GREAT FPS!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcore69
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 5:11 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played. The story is perfect, the characters are great, the graphics 
 are the best, and the sounds are amazing. The sheer fact that the game comes with one of the best 
 FPS net games of al time with modifies graphics is worth buying it. If you buy this game you will 
 have much more than what you payed for. Updates will keep on coming for it too, so there is no 
 fear of the fun ending after you've passed the single player game. If you like FPS games then THIS 
 IS THE ONE TO BUY!!! There is no question in that, but some people might not like it, and think 
 the plot seems too unrealistic. The game is highly additive and when I played it I foud myself 
 playing it for many hours in a row every time. The highly anticipated game was better than promised, 
 and that's what counts!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poenar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  I think that the huge success of HL series is based on the great script that guides the game. It 
 is an intelligent scenario which captives attention and transposes you in a hallucinating world 
 where you can change things. It`s not just sterile shooting, but there is a logic of the ongoing 
 facts and events. I hope there will be made sometimes a movie based on HL. HL 2 has something from 
 the "1984" movie, a suppressed society where things must be changed. Also the mistery that wraps 
 the G-man offers many possible explanations, and opens alternatives for continuing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redgolf122003
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought Half-Life 2, I basically had the minimum requirements. It ran so terribly it 
 was actually humorous. My friend came over one day to check the game out because he heard great 
 things about it. I tried to tell him that my computer could not do the game justice, however, he 
 persisted. So, I played the part where the drop ship attacks the beach headquarters. The second 
 the drop ship came into view, my FPS went down to about 3. It was very funny, in a my computer 
 blows, kind of way. I never finished the game.
  A month or two later, I decided to fully upgrade my computer. I doubled my memory to 512 RAM, I 
 upgraded my processor from 1.7 to 2.8, and I bought the nvidia 6600GT graphics card. $450 dollars 
 later, the game ran smoothly with a solid frame rate (albeit at the minimum settings) . I finally 
 understood why people have always said that computer games are better. Even at minimum/medium settings, 
 it was the most impressive game I have ever played. It was so immersive that I felt like I was 
 literally in the game. The graphics are, hands down, the best I have ever seen. While some people 
 really hate the story, I enjoy how abstract it is. Only being able to see what occurs in your presence, 
 or piecing together other events from clues, in my opinion, really adds to the game play. It keeps 
 you immersed and involved in the game.
  In conclusion, while I wasnt too keen on spending $400 -$500 to be able to play this game, it 
 was worth it. While the Halo is still my favorite game, Half-Life 2 is only slightly behind it. 
 If your computer can handle it, buy this game, you will not forget it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crodeman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  Well worth the wait for its release. After beating the game multiple times on multiple difficulties 
 I still find it quite hard to get bored of this game. This "Phenomenon" as I like to call it, is 
 the "Classis game everyone must play, at least once" phenomenon. It happen with the original that 
 spawned this game, it was an instant classic, which single handedly revolutionized first person 
 shooters. 
  
  Even though some of the basic gameplay HL2 presents is similar to other FPS on the market, it bring 
 some gameplay never before seen in FPS games or any game for that matter. HL2 introduced the use 
 of physics into the game, this added an interesting dynamic to the game, which allowed puzzles, 
 battles and interaction much more interesting. 
  
  The only annoyance I have with HL2, is not really with the game, it is with steam and the steam 
 client. Steam is required to be run, when you play the game, that doesn't sound so bad, except 
 the fact that you need to be online to play. Not really a big deal for most, including myself, 
 but it is a minor annoyance. 
  
  Valve's high interest and concern with detail, is shown evey explicitly in this outstanding game. 
 Valves allows those of us with the not so high system to fully enjoy the HL2 experience, and of 
 course there are some of us who could also enjoy HL2 in all its 3D glory. Along with addictive 
 mulitplayer games, such as the acclaimed Counter Strike, which also incorporate excellent physics. 
 Halflife 2 is A great FPS that interwined an intriguing story with excellent NPC interaction and 
 alos replay value. A must for anyone looking for great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  One of the things that made Half-Life stand out was the narrative technique, not to mention the 
 outstanding voice and work and subtlety coherent journey, that gave the gamer only as much information 
 as they needed to get te nexst part of the game - tricking the gamer into believing they had to 
 escape impending disaster, and then slowly unravelling a hugely enteraining conspiracy. This time 
 around it's not quite so limited with the player often tasked with traversing vast distances, taking 
 in hugely varied terrain and locations as opposed to keeping the player tethered to a base of operations. But 
 while it's true that a relatively small part of Harf-Life 2 takes place within the central core 
 of City 17, the sense of variety and freshness is extremely welcome. Interms of actual story, it's 
 probably even less claer as to why you're there or what you're ultimately supposed to be doing 
 than before. Along the way it takes in familiar themes of escape, rescue, betrayal, revenge and of 
 course redemption.
  The puzzles are worth a mention in their own right; Half-Life 2 has, after all got the most impressive 
 physics ever seen in a videogame, and it's not afraid to flaunt them. You can lift, throw and push 
 just about anthing in the game. The puzzles, meanwhile, are less a matter of lateral thinking, and 
 more a matter of remembering that this game world performs like the real world. With twenty hours 
 of gameplay, variety is the spice of life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  I gave Hafe Life2 a 10 for Graphics because the Graphics in the game are outstanding. The fis-ices 
 the game are so cool if you shoot at a wall it makes a hole if you die in the game depending how 
 you die your body all wises falls different. There are so many cool weaponsin Hafe Life2 like the 
 gravity gun you can pick up objects with the gravity gun like chair's, bed's, boxes, TVs etc. I gave 
 the game play a 10 because you have to figure things out in situation. I also gave it a 10 because 
 the game runes so smooth. This is why I gave this game a 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:07 am PT
Review:  Half-Life is to the PC as Grand Theft Auto is to Playstation 2 is is the best of the best. You 
 are once again Gordon Freeman but no more Black Mesa for you you work for a new company (although 
 it still seems you have a crummy job!) and it seems like just another day at work (sounds familiar?) 
 until Barney a security guard from Black Mesa pulls you off your usual route and into a new adventure 
 to stop the people who are destroying the world. Unlike most games this plants you straight in 
 the game with no clip scenes but it is still engaging as any other great game. Some old enemies 
 return to cause havoc (like the head crabs and then the more advanced head crabs) . Hal-Life 2 is 
 as easy to play just as any other first-person shooter on PC, the graphic are the best in game 
 I have currently ever seen, the conversations between characters seem realistic (they are never 
 straight to the point, they always have a bit to chat about {except Gordon who seems to have lost 
 his voice again} ) . The value of this game rockets as it is guaranteed to have many official add-ons 
 (such as Aftermath) and then the officials (such as Natural Selection 2) . this is the best first 
 person shooter ever (maybe Half-Life 3 will have something to say about that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guildsander
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game for FPS fans. Half life2 is also the best first person shooter game ever!!!!!!!
 
  
  The game is very long and you can kill both monster and human enemies.
  There are also very good weapons in the game.
  The gravity gun in the final levels is my favourite 
 because you can grab enemies with it and things on the wall. My favourite weapon before is the 
 crossbow because you can shoot enemies in the wall. I once attached four enemies to a cliff, then 
 is saved game and then i loaded the save game so the arrows were gone and it i were to touch the 
 enemie he would fall of the cliff into the sea. 
  The guided rocketlauncher is cool to. It is fun to guid the rocket around the air. It is also good 
 at killing enemies.
  
  In the Ravenholm level you could be scared a lot because you are walking in ruins in darck moonlight 
 and suddenly armies of zombies come at you, but there is also a preast who seems to be the only 
 surviver in the village and he is killing enemis with fun. You will see him in that level several 
 times and he is the one who gines you the shotgun.
  
  There are also levels where you have to kill bugs in the desert. Thats hard because when you are 
 in the desert you have to walk on rocks only because when you go on the sand the bugs will rise 
 in armies and try to kill you badly. At the end of the level you will have to kill a bug who is 
 four times the zise of you. That bug is really hard to kill so use the rocketlauncher. And then 
 weapons with strong fire power.
  
  In the last level you have to destroy a teleporter with a man inside but its hard because there 
 are two planes shooting at you and you only have the gravity gun. That you have to do on the top 
 of a very high tower. Before you have to climb that tower but there are armies of enemies shooting 
 at you.
  
  This is a good game and should not be missed!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzman13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks. it has some of the best graphics around. the sound is also great. it is also cool 
 how you get an airboat and buggy. i also like how the AI is so good. it also has the best physics 
 i've ever seen. if you throw a wood crate in the water it floats. also the rag doll physics are 
 really good. the online is also very fun. the cool thing is is that it is an updated counter strike 
 game. the single player doesn't last all that long but it still is fun.
  
  this game rocks. it has some of the best graphics around. the sound is also great. it is also cool 
 how you get an airboat and buggy. i also like how the AI is so good. it also has the best physics 
 i've ever seen. if you throw a wood crate in the water it floats. also the rag doll physics are 
 really good. the online is also very fun. the cool thing is is that it is an updated counter strike 
 game. the single player doesn't last all that long but it still is fun.
  
  this game rocks. it has some of the best graphics around. the sound is also great. it is also cool 
 how you get an airboat and buggy. i also like how the AI is so good. it also has the best physics 
 i've ever seen. if you throw a wood crate in the water it floats. also the rag doll physics are 
 really good. the online is also very fun. the cool thing is is that it is an updated counter strike 
 game. the single player doesn't last all that long but it still is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  gameplay pros: This game is very fun and addictive, it even has cool puzzles to solve on the way 
 that always involve the games incredible physics. The game has a perfect blend of urban combat 
 as well as zombie infested wars in ravenholm.
  
  gameplay cons: there are some things in half life 2 that are bad however. The snipers in the game 
 are unreallistic because there not really there antil you kill them and only with an explosive 
 does this happen. the weapons in the game seem extremely unbalanced apart from the grav gun pistol 
 and shotgun, but both machine guns are unnacurate and fairly useless ( the smod fixes the weapon 
 issue however) . there are also some bugs here and there.
  
  graphics pros :best graphics of any game (especailly the water hazard level. and the phiysics are 
 fantastic. the facial aspect of the characters is also something to marvel
  
  graphics cons : some things in the game dont seem to be quite on par with everything else. the 
 walls could have standed a bit more bump mapping, and the helicopter guns is quite undetailed and 
 dated looking. also this game doesnt seem to like new nvidia drivers
  
  sound: the music in the game is really good, it is almost on par with perfect darks music. the 
 voice acting is also excellent
  
  value: it comes with counter strike source, the game is pretty long and the mod communtiy adds 
 to its life as well
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukacevic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:14 am PT
Review:  Hi! I think that Half-Life 2 is the best game ever, i play it over and over again, because i love 
 it! Game play is very good and i like the movement and reality of falling objects. The enemies 
 aren't so smart but that don't make a game play any worst. I love the weapons too; i loved them 
 in Half-Life 1 too. I prefer the last level and maybe there isn't enough bullets in bazooka but 
 it's ok. Oh and mod's for Half-Life 2 are good too. I love to play HL2 death match and capture 
 the flag. Maybe Counter-Strike: source isn't so good; well.... i prefer 1.6.
  
  Well that is my opinion, sorry for my English; i am from Slovenia.
  
  Bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CLC67
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  After the first Half-lfe, I'm not sure if any FPS can be revolutionary... hopefully one will come 
 along and prove me wrong. With that said, Half-life 2 picks up the story and runs like a champ. 
 Sequels tend to fall short of expectations due to many reasons, sometimes because the sequel feels 
 like too much of a rehash. Half-Life 2 is a truly worthy sequel that feels more like a continuation 
 of the Half-life story which of course it is. Half-life 2 once again is in the top 1 or 2 as far 
 as game engine technology and the absolute top in executing that technology. I wish I could take 
 games like Doom 3, Far Cry, etc and give that development time to Valve to extend Half-Life 2. 
 The only thing I want out of Half-life 2 is more, more, MORE! I gave it a 10 because I can't think 
 of anything better. Half-life 2 had gritty street fights against human opponents, Horror type encounters 
 against head crab zombies/maniacs, Sci-Fi shootouts, Vehicle segments, squad based battles, fights 
 against the tripods.... Wow! what variety!! Never a dull moment. So I say to Valve, 'Thank You Sir, 
 may I have another?' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiny_man_54
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. Just absolutely amazing. Half-Life 2 has it all, down to the last speck of blood on the 
 wall. The first time I opened the box I could tell this was going to be one of the best games i've 
 ever played. One look at this game and you notice the graphics are superb, the player models exceed 
 everyone's expectations, and to top it all off it has all the blood, gore, and zombie killing you 
 could ever hope for. Each chapter is fairly long and it takes a long while to finish the game. 
 Right from the beginning of the game you are wowed by all the beautiful sites and models, let alone 
 the great addition of physics and tossing things around with your gravity gun like it were nothing. 
 This game is one of the best games i've played in my short time with life, and i'm sure everyone 
 agrees with me on this one. It is just absolutely great. I give this game a HUGE thumbs up and 
 I hope to see many mods for this game to add on to the great gameplay. If you have not played this 
 game I suggest you grab it at your local store or download it through Steam right away! Ten out 
 of Ten for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  If you don't play half-life 2, you didn't meat the only requirement for 2004 - 2005. Half-life 
 2 is just 1 amazingly done game. You can't beat it. The game can run on low settings and still 
 be great. The graphics in this game are amazing. everything is shining, and smooth, it looks so 
 real, even the zombies. The sound is very great. The voice acting is full on amazing! The guns 
 sound even better than they look. The story is very nice and extensive. From being a civilian under 
 the influence of combine forces, to a rebel driving an airboat through water pipelines, to a man 
 killing off a zombie infested city, all the way up to a guy who destroys an entire citadel with 
 a few blows. The Gameplay is amazing! You get vehicles equipped with weapons, and plus, you have 
 got your own filled up arsenal ready to take out some combine soldiers, zombies, head craps, manahacks, 
 antlions, striders, and Dr. Wallace Breen. Go kill the nut case. Half-life 2 is a game for your 
 collection. Can you live without it? NO NO YOU CAN'T! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalore_15
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The day I got Half-life 2, I can remember an almost unbelievable sense of euphoria overwhelming 
 me. I stared at the box on the way back home in the car, lost for words. This was my big day. Having 
 played the first one five years previously (which is still my favourite game to date) , I had been 
 waiting fervently for the sequel to arrive. The constant delays of the game's release did nothing 
 to help my predicament, and when it finally arrived I couldn't get it in the disk drive fast enough...
 
  
  The wait while setting up steam was quite annoying, but I didn't seem to have any of the troubles 
 that other gamers often complain of. And then it started... The atmosphere immediately hits you 
 like a ton of bricks. You're in a train station (much different to that of the first game, but 
 the same sense of foreboding lingers here) , unarmed, with strange looking guards ordering you to 
 move along. You do as they say, or suffer the consequences. This intro to the game works perfectly, 
 you can feel the oppression these people face, without being told anything directly by another 
 character. Soon enough, you're running for your life from the combine, dodging bullets as you try 
 to escape to your friends safe-house.
  
  The game moves on swiftly from this early, unarmed encounter. You soon gain access to a few simple 
 weapons, and your classic hazard suit (with a few modifications, including a slightly silly power 
 bar that is used both for your flashlight and sprinting) . The spacing of your new weapons is generally 
 very good, but falters slightly in the second half of the game. The gameplay, however, is always 
 changing and always fresh. While the playing style is very similar to the last game, and the shooting 
 itself is generally quite simplistic, it is always satisfying, due largely to the new extent to 
 which you can manipulate the environment. The HAVOK physics engine has been put to excellent use. 
 Puzzles utilising the phenomenal physics engine add a real world element to the game, making it 
 all the more immersive. The gameplay is always changing as well. You go from being trapped in a 
 zombie-filled ghost town, with only a mad clergyman for company, to speeding down a highway in 
 a buggy made of what looks like recycled bicycle frames, shooting a laser cannon at giant alien 
 ants. But while the setting may change, the atmosphere is always tense, whether it is fear you're 
 feeling or a pure adrenaline rush.
  
  Have I mentioned the graphics yet? The presentation of this game is astounding, and is beyond compare 
 of almost any other game so far (Doom 3 being the only exception) . The lighting effects, high-res 
 textures and bump-mapping techniques make a truly beautiful world for you to explore, that feels 
 as if it lives and breathes as you do. The other characters in the game are wonderously detailed, 
 you can even see the light reflecting off their eyes... The sound throughout this game is always 
 great too. The original cast all make a comeback to this game, and they all sound as good (if not 
 better) than they did in the previous game.
  
  All in all, this is a brilliant game, and worth every bit of recognition it has recieved so far. 
 It does have a few flaws however. The lack of boss-style encounters (such as the tentacles from 
 the first half-life) ar a bit of a let-down, while the occasionaly lacklustre AI and overall easy 
 difficulty (unless played on hard) , are all problems that tarnish a gem of a game. While a download 
 of the "realistic" difficulty setting can get around the last problem, the last two are more permanent. 
 These problems, I think, are mainly due to the hype that has surrounded the release of the game. 
 With this game hyped up so much, it would be almost impossible for it to deliver on absolutley 
 everyone's expectations, so that while it is an astounding achievment and great game, it is slightly 
 dissapointing. However, the promised release of Half-life: Aftermath, and other such episodic content 
 should do a lot to relive this. And so I ask you, judge this game on what it is, not what it COULD 
 be, and you will have one of the best gaming experiences of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phunkmunky
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is one and maybe the best and funnest games i have ever played. It imerses you into Gordons 
 world with the Combine. The G-man also shows up in minute spots through out the game, you just 
 have to look. City 17 is also fun to roam around until you find your way. The action is what I 
 loved about the game, it's not like some games where you cant take a breather and recharge! With 
 extravegant graphics and great physical properties such as boyancy, weight, gravity, etc. It's 
 also fun to play around with those properties as well. As the game progresses you find out more 
 about the combine and their heinous plans, and Gordon is the bravest nerd/super hero in the world. 
 Alex also has a few things up her sleve, like Dog, the best pet in the world. This game is nothing 
 short of great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca7593
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Now for those non-believers I have but a few words for you. If you think this game is bad I'm going 
 to have to say you are easily one of the stupidest 10 year olds I've ever had the displeasure to 
 speak about. And yes, punksurf30, I am talking to you. I've had it with stupid little kids who 
 post bad things about amazing games just because they suck at video games so much that they can't 
 defeat them. Now getting to the review of this great game. In this game you play as Gordon Freeman, 
 a rambo scientist from the future. You start the game with few weapons, and your trusty crow-bar. 
 Along the way of this incredibly immersive game you find really cool weapons and powerups. This 
 game's graphics are top notch, along with the breathtaking gameplay, great controls, amazing sound, 
 and dim scare-esc atmosphere and you have here one of the best games ever made, so go buy this 
 game already.... and HL2 comes with one other great game- Counter-Strike Source absolutly free. 
 With just the single-player experience of HL2 this game runs around 20 hours or so depending on 
 the difficulty you put it on. But with the addition of CS: S and the online of HL2 you will keep 
 playing these games until your eyes roll into the back of your head from staring at the computer 
 screen to long. If you pass these games up then you are either retarded or marginally reatrded. 
 Your pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spenser0220
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2, the follow-up to Valve's enormously popular PC Shooter Half Life, is one of the finest 
 games ever designed, and a must-have for fans of shooters, good graphics, or games in general. 
 The game manages to stay true to the winning formula of its predecessor, while still implementing 
 enough new features to satisfy a new generation.
  
  Half Life 2's setting is quite a drastic change from the original, which toook place almost entirely 
 inside an infested labratory in New Mexico. The sequal begins many years after the catastrophic 
 event that filled the Black Mesa facility with swarms aliens, held back only bt the protaginist, 
 a young theoretical physicist- Gordon Freeman. The end of Half Life offered the player the choice 
 between accepting a job proposition of a mysterious and possibly untrustworthy indivisual, the 
 G-Man, or facing certain death at the hands of an unstoppable alien army. Half Life 2 begins with 
 the assumption that Gordon Freeman accepted the G-Man's deal, and is now inserted onto a traincar 
 traveling into the heart of an alien-controlled earth. The monsters of the original game are now 
 but slaves to Earth's over- lords, a robtotic and almost Nazi-like species- the Combine. Freeman 
 must, with the aid of an excellent cast of characters, fight off wave after wave of enemy soldier, 
 lest Earth be picked to the bone by the might of the COmbine empire.
  
  First, Valve takes an uconventional approach to the main character in that, as with the first game, 
 Gordon Freeman does not speek a word throughout the entire game. Indeed, there are no cutscenes 
 at all (save for two dream- like sequences shown through Freeman's eyes at the beginning and end 
 of the game) . The action never leaves Freeman's perspective for a moment, and the entire game is 
 one continuous sequence, interrupted only by brief loading times. The other characters address 
 Freeman directly, but he never says a word in reply. This method is rather effective, in that allows 
 the player tom decide Freeman's personality and attitude.
  
  In the area of gameplay, Half Life 2 does not disappoint. The game carries about 10 or so weapons, 
 incuding both standard FPS fare (pistol, SMG, shotgun, grenade) and more exotic weapons (a crossbow 
 which fires red- hot bolts that pen enemies to the wall, a gravity gun, and 'pheropods' that can 
 be used to control bug-like allies) . The gravity gun is one of the game's highlights, a weapon 
 which makes excellent use of Half Life 2's remarkable physics enigne, in which every object in 
 that game responds realistically to both gunfire and human touch. The gravity gun can be used to 
 pick up all objects of suitable weight, and the secondary fire can propel all these and heavier 
 items (such as cars) with a bolt of energy. The Combine are animated excellently and fight intelligently, 
 althought they aren't the only enemies in the game. You'll also fight zombies, Combine dropships, 
 helicopters, and APCs, and strange 'Antlions'- small monsters that emerge from sand to attack you, 
 but later can be controlled and used as a motley squad.
  
  Graphics-wise, Half Life 2 is unparalled. The Source engine creates huge, colorful landscapes with 
 an extreme amount of detail and advanced lighting. Water is also excellent, rivalling games such 
 as Far Cry in realism. Characters are animated with such perfection that you truly feel that the 
 people before you are living, breathign entities. The physics engine is also closely tied with 
 graphics in that the player has the ability to destory most objects in the game to beautriful results- 
 garbage has never looked so beautiful. Particle effects are equally impressive. Sound is also well-done, 
 but not as noticeable as the game's other elements. The game is mostly silent, but at points of 
 tension very soundtracks will kick in. In the scary level, Ravenholm, music that resembles the 
 blowing wind sets the stage for a zombie assault. At the game's climax, a soft rock theme is introduced. 
 The Combine produce an awesome high-pitched death noise as their respirators and internal machinery 
 fail, and all of the characters are voiced marvelously. 
  
  Half Life 2 was orignally packaged with only a Source version of the insanely poular onliny shooter, 
 Counter Strike (orignally a Half Life mod) but now a multiplayer version of HL2 can be downloaded 
 over Valve's content systrem, Setam. Half Life 2 Deathmatch is a simple mp game which includes 
 the weapons and characters of the singleplayer game.
  Mod and update support ensure that Half Life 2 will continued to be played for many years to come, 
 just as its predecessor was and is.
  
  All in all, Half Life 2 is one of the most beautiful games ever released and a worthy edition to 
 any game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is by far one of the best gams I have ever played or seen for that matter.
  
  Graphics: The most realistic of any game I've seen even Far Cry. This game looks incredible. Screenshots 
 only due partial credit as you've got to see it in motion. The lighting and water is amazing.
 
  
  Sound: Awesome! Great surround placement and plenty of it! Everything sounds like it should and 
 nothing seems to exagerated.
  
  Gameplay: There were countless scenes/moments in this game where I felt like I was playing in a 
 John Woo action movie. The riverboat part had me smiling ear to ear the whole time. When the whole 
 this is going with a good set of surround sound speakers its simply phenomenal.
  
  Without a doubt if you own a PC you simply must own this game. You are missing out on a true classic 
 and definately one of the best games made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnonymousThing
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a good game, the graphics are good, the AI is excellent and the gameplay is fun. 
 The one big let down is the sound. The sound doesnt work sometimes, many people have this problem, 
 and no one has a solution, apart from going out and buying a new sound-card. The main high point 
 of this game is the storey, after finishing it, i want to go out abd buy the next one, its addictive 
 and fun to play. However the game does make up for the issues with sound, with the graphics there 
 are supurb and nearly un matched. In my oppinion, this is deffiently a go out and buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay it's kinda weird that about this at first. You need to have an internet connection in order 
 to play this game. I don't know why but I think one of the main reason is piracy. Cleary you can 
 play this without the internet but there is some sort of program embeded in it that it can only 
 be activated through the valve system website. So it would suck if you don't have in internet cuz 
 this is one of the best PC game today. 
  Following the story as a sequel, the story couldn't have been better. I'm not gonna go with the 
 story of the game, but it's the best part of the game I really like. Playing through all levels 
 is just it's just very emmersive and I couldn't stop playing the game till I was finished. Really, 
 I got the game over in about 2 days, about three session of playing. The graphics are amazing, 
 man I thought my PC performance is going to go down but it was fine running at max level. The visual 
 are just stunning, an eye candy I would say. Some part of the game, my favorite is the scary parts 
 like your getting attack by zombies that sprints and jumps. It just so emmersive that any thing 
 moves in the dark corner with the combination of some creepy ambient sounds would just make me 
 jump. The sounds are good, especially the ambient sounds, it's not like some other game that plays 
 music the entire time. Well, in conclusion this game is truly one of the best, combining everything 
 into just an amazing highly emmersive story. This game I would think is a must have to all game 
 enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thatdot6
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  The graphics of this games is diffinately one of the best for its time.... it paths the way for 
 future games First-Person Shootors.... just like the first Half-LIfe...
  
  The gameplay is absolutely awesome.... from the very beginning, you are immediately placed into 
 the character of Gordon Freeman.... The action is hot, especially is the 13th chapter.... The gravity 
 gun, one of the main features of this game is fun to play around it.... this game encoperates this 
 weapon as a essential tool to get around City 17
  
  Sounds are so realistic.... it makes you feel that you are really there in the game kill Combines 
 and Headcrabs...
  
  In conclusion... go buy it and play it today..... it is really worth the experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfan06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  In 1998, Half Life shocked the computer gaming world with its combination of fast-paced action, 
 enthralling plot and excellent sound. No surprise it garnered over 50 Game of the Year awards.
 
  Now comes Half Life 2, the much anticipated sequel to the blockbuster first installment. Many 
 had mixed feelingsof howf HL2 could live up to the expectations of the first, maybe even surpass 
 them. In many ways it goes beyond that of the first game and while a truly enjoyable game from 
 start to finish, it does have some minor setbacks that keep it from being as revolutionary as its 
 predecessor. First, the good. The newly developed Source engine is truly a giant step forward and 
 adds much to the experience, almost giving the game a cincematic feel. It is safe to say that many 
 games in the coming years will take advantage of Valve's engine. The Havok physics makes the world 
 come alive as everything acts in accordance to how it would in the real world, i. e. bodies bobbing 
 in the water, crates splintering apart when shot. Lighting plays an essential part, especially 
 the High Dynamic Rendering which creates life like reflections, but is essentially not an option 
 if you are a runing a machine without the newest GPU's. While Valve said most mid-range machines 
 were able to handle HL2, to avoid lagging frame rates, one needs at least DirectX9.0b, 512 mgb 
 RAM and 2.0 GHz processor. Ambient sound is as good as it gets, while the soundtrack is mostly 
 house and tencho beats that get repetitive after awhile. Gameplay is fantastic, although the ally 
 A. I. is not as great as you'd expect. I sometimes found myself frustrated as my allies were slow 
 in following and getting out of the way. The game handles pretty well, and most of the early bugs 
 that caused sound stuttering have been resolved in patches via Steam. The story line itself is 
 compelling as you once again take on the role of Gordon Freeman, a scientist let out of stasis 
 by the mysterious G-Man and on the run from a new enemy, the Combine. New characters pop up along 
 the way, including Alyx Vance, the daughter of a Black Mesa coworker and Father Gregori, and eccentric 
 priest. Dr. Isaac Kleiner returns, with contemporary Dr. Eli Vance and everyones favorite security 
 guard Barney Calhoun. Most of the levels are solid and they flow seamlessly from one to the next 
 with relatviley short loading times. The ending was somewhat of a letdown, and without giving too 
 much away, it seems much of the events of the first game are are only partially resovled, while 
 a new questions arise following this installment (getting ready for Half Life 3 perhaps?) .
  All in all, Half Life 2 is a solid game and a faithful followup to one of the greatest PC games 
 ever. While not as revolutionary, it packs a punch. It has tremondous replay value, especially 
 since it is coupled with Counter Strike Source, a follow up to the most popular online shooter. 
 If you dont own it, go buy it. It is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowWarlock7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  Graphics, amazing, breathtaking or simply beautiful.... simply put, you could by the game just 
 to look at it! Gameplay, excellent and easy as well. The game isn't very challenging and has little 
 A. I intelligence to offer for challenging gun play. the game has a pretty good storyline to offer 
 fans although it can be disappointing. If you are to buy this game i suggest you get a high-end 
 graphics card as well... you'll need it! I would suggest this game to anyone with a pc, its a must 
 own game! the game can have some short ends but it has amazing voice acting and that will make 
 up for it. alltogether this game is simply amazing! you should get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics, physics, and environments are all top of the line. If you have 
 a computer powerful enough to run this baby, then go out and buy it now. It is simply one of the 
 best PC games of all time. Everything works perfectly in this game except maybe the cliff hanger 
 story line at the end. But who cares. The Story line is not the most important thing (even though 
 its very important) . This game can amaze just about anyone, no joke. The look of the game is jaw 
 dropping enough. But this game is also filled with lots of really cools secrets and easter eggs. 
 You'll love this game, trust me, just get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGrungeKid18
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was a new break through in the PC gaming realm, and not only was single player stunning 
 and fun, but Multiplayer made this game a must play for everyone. Personally I believe it blows 
 counter strike out of the water hands down! If you haven't played HL2 Deathmatch yet, you have 
 to give it at least one try, you won't be sorry I promise! Awsome lvls plus user created lvls make 
 this game non stop fun! Blow people up with rocket launchers or simply use your Grav gun to pick 
 up a file cabinet and sling it into your opponent! If you love FPS then I reccomend you get your 
 hands on Half Life 2 if you haven't already done so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzacck
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game ever if you havn't bought it yet then do it now you will never ever ever 
 ever ever ever ever ever ever ever ever get a beter game. it is some what like F. E. A. R I wrote 
 a review if it sound cool or any thing to someone. by the way if youre a majorly freaky games you'll 
 really like it!!!!!!!! half life is amazingly cool I highly recomendthis game to every one even 
 if you aren't into these types of games you will always like it. it's definateltly a intense game 
 butyou will defanetly like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  OVERALL: This game should be rated with all rewards. Before I started to play this game ,I thought 
 this will be simple game, where you will pick your weapon and have to take care of everything by 
 myself. But I was wrong.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The game is very realistic, I think that it is even the first in this category of FPS. 
 Not only because of sounds or graphics, but because of revolutionary psychic engine. You can literally 
 pick everything - from books, cans, and manipulate with them in different ways. Just like in the 
 real world. The AI has significantly improved over the first Half-Life. I mean, the enemies are 
 not so clumsy and their body is now very realistic - for example when you kill Combine soldier, 
 it doesn`t fall in the same way - for example if it is in the end of a cliff, his arm will be hanging 
 down etc. Also there is one interesting fact - the enemies may look somewhat week but are not - 
 zombies for example move very clumsy and look like they were handicaps but if you underestimate 
 them, you will find yourself lying dead on the floor.
  And even if you got H. E. V. suit, it wont give you godlike powers. If you will rush outside with 
 guns blazing, you will do nothing. You will have to use all your skills and ingenuity to overwhelm 
 you foes, especially on higher dificulties. But you will not be alone - you will have CITY 17 rebels 
 on your side - to help fighting you against the Combine. The events are also not prerecorded - 
 for instance an enemy helicopter will not move in same way, but will try to find and kill you even 
 if you are in the building - therefor you will need to outmaneuver them and find a bigger weapon 
 to destroy it.
  
  The game environment is also good balanced - for some time you will fight in streets, then in a 
 facility, in tunnels and so on. And vehicles are not some wall textures, like in the first game 
 but are real. You will also have to use them if you want to survive - and for the long time: they 
 wont be there for decoration.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in this game could go vs. F. E. A. R. graphics - althought the evironment is 
 not so colorful (everything is more natural and everything looks foggy and very old - (maybe 
 because of massive fighting across the planet and then the sky has became dirty) , there are many 
 new things - like motion blur, depth of field, bloom, fog, special reflections and HDR (high-dynamic 
 range) lightings, well things that makes world alive.
  
  SOUNDS: If you ask me, HL2 has the best sounds of all games. Music is also original in its category. 
 Zombies have their original growls, but that describes rather the pin of a host. Even more funny 
 (or sad) is, when you burn them - they will scream all over the place until they finally die. But 
 there are also surprises - you will hear fast zombies once they spot you and again, when they will 
 be close to you - same`s with antlions (but you will hear them, when they pop-out from sand) - 
 so you need to listen careful (of course you will hear them running, but some other event could 
 disturb you and this can be really dangerous) .
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS: I recommend, you play the first game so that you will understand the story. I don` 
 even want to think, how much work was put into this game. Otherwise, I can`t even describe this 
 game any more - you need to play it - everyone should play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  Well.. halflife1 was the greatest game of all time, no doubt.
  Halflife2 brings the bar even higher! With the new source engine based graphics and same old Gordon 
 Freeman loose with his crowbar it can't fail. The graphics are great, the storyline is thrilling, 
 although there could be a bit more variety in the gameplay, but overall it's good.
  We also meet alot of new characters/characters/scenes.
  The game ends with yet another cliffhanger-ending 
 with the mysterious g-man behind the wheel. I can smell a Half-Life3 in the air. :P
  
  The multiplayer is how we know it as previous half life games. 
  Overall great :)
  
  This 
 is a MUST HAVE game for all gamers. No excuses. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razvantmkiri
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 what a game what a game!
  When I started to play my breath was taken away by the incredible graphics, no other game has managed 
 to impress me like this one, it felt very realistic and I couldnt stop playing.
  Its very clear that a lot of work was put in to this project and the results are more than pleasing 
 because in Half-Life 2 you can do almost anything :shoot drive lead a team save the world and maintain 
 complete silence while doing all of this because Gordon seems the kind of person that is only concentrated 
 on action.
  The Half-Life 2 universe is very different from the one in the first game instead of the underground 
 laboratory we now can see a lot of different landscapes like crumbling buildings beaches streets 
 alien style buildings and much much more.
  The weapons are different to but some of the most loved weapons of Half-Life are here too, the 
 shotgun and the magnum revolver (what a weapon!)
  The enemies are well they all look the same but the are pretty smart and they use the surrounding 
 environment very well , you can kill soldiers and some bugs
  This review sucks ,look I can t even begin to describe this game .its incredible , I felt my 
 heart beating with joy when I played it, everything comes together perfectly in this game to make 
 a whole, the graphics the sound the enemies the events and maybe most importantly the story, I 
 enjoyed it a lot and Im shore that you will too 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bog_god
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:39 am PT
Review:  For a start I must say I'm hard to please, I have only completed maybe 10% of the FPS games I own 
 because I tend to get bored unless the game is truely gripping.
  HL2 was one of my games I got bored off - very quickly. The technology behind the game is superb, 
 I'm sure - the graphics are amazing, the physics are brilliant, there is no disputing this. However, 
 I think when Valve made this game they tried maybe to make the singleplayer side stretch a bit 
 too far. I found that the game progressed too slowly to keep me coming back. Games such as Call 
 of Duty (my favourite FPS of all time) have a certain balance of mayhem and story which keeps the 
 game moving. Even if CoD is much shorter than HL2, its short and sweet, rather than long and dreary 
 as I found HL2. 
  Yet, as my score shows, I don't think buying HL2 is a bad idea. I know many people who have been 
 in fits of joy over the HL2 game, so it must appeal to other people. Plus it ships with Counter 
 Strike : Source - a truely spectacular game. Anyone who doesn't enjoy the main game of HL2 can 
 find easily their moneys worth in CS: S, and anyone not enjoying CS: S I believe will no doubt find 
 some consolation in HL2.
  So, in short BUY THIS GAME - if you like FPS games then you'll be sure to find something here to 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAOS__REAPER
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 will have a massive single-player storyline composed of 12 chapters. By taking the 
 suspense, challenge and visceral charge of the original, and adding startling new realism and responsiveness, 
 Half-Life 2 opens the door to a world where the player's presence affects everything around him, 
 from the physical environment to the behaviors of both friends and enemies. 
  
  Players once again pick up the crowbar of research scientist Gordon Freeman, who finds himself 
 on an alien-infested Earth being picked to the bone, its resources depleted, its populace dwindling. 
 Freeman is thrust into the unenviable role of rescuing the world from the wrong he unleashed back 
 at Black 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWalrusBeast
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best game I have. HL2 is undoubtably one of the best first-person shooter 
 games ever created. Once again you ar Gordon Freeman and you are out to save the world against 
 a different race of aliens, the Combine this time, only you don't actually fight the actual combines, 
 but mutated humans created by the combines. 
  
  The physics and graphics are just amazing. Nearly every items ranging from boxes to sofas can be 
 picked up by hand or with the Gravity Gun. The sound is also very astonishing. I can't wait til 
 the expansion comes out! This is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltiburonprimer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was wonderfully made, with a great story line and voice acting. Heck, i've got a radeon 
 9100 128mb PCI video card and a P4 1.8ghz, and this game is still beautiful.
  
  I highly recommed getting this game, and the replayability with Deathmatch and Counter Strike: 
 Source make it more than worth the money and time you'll waste having fun with it.
  
  That's the jist of it, now i'm just filling in space because they said I need at least 100 words 
 to submit a review.
  
  Anyway, if you get the collector's edition, which i did, it comes with HL1: Source, as well as 
 CS: Source, which is worth seeing the story line of HL1, with source engine water, etc, especially 
 if you've never played either of the 2 mentioned game's originals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starsky303
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 2, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  I've had this game since it first came out and have been following it's progression (addons, mods 
 etc) but realised I'd never officially given it any credit. It's been out for a while now and it's 
 about time... This game f**kin' rocks. The storyline, sound and voice acting is nothing short of 
 brilliant, the graphics and engine, stunning. From weaponry (Crossbow to Grav Gun) to the settings/levels. 
 The whole atmosphere of this game is nothing short of cinematic. From the eerily, disturbing like 
 Ravenholm and that small house next to the beach, (from sunny outside to disturbing deserted house 
 with that thing inside?) to the absolutely chaotic hover-boat and buggy ride.
  Whether you want to skim across water at high speed whilst dodging burnt out cars, have a swarm 
 of Antlions at you beckoning call or simply chill out and manoeuvre a magnetic crane to smash into 
 a few soldiers, this game has it all.
  
  My review has come a bit late but it doesn't matter. This game is timeless and will remain to be 
 one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibrahimbilal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is really outrageous. Tremendous effort in graphics, making it the best possible realistic 
 graphics ever. Extremely real environments, bullets, weather and water effects. 
  The expressions of the characters dominates all. Specially, the 
  expressions of the Alyx and 
 friendly soldiers.... never could any creator make such a superb FPS game. 
  And the most addicting thing is the Gravity Gun...... with which you can catch or kick any material 
 at anyone anywhere. The rocket launcher is very special, having laser crosshair. You can use multiple 
 transportation vehicles, multiple guns, turrets, throw blades, boxes, cans using gravity gun.... use 
 your environment as you weapon. 
  THE best FPS ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  There are over 700 reader's reviews of HL2 on Gamespot, testament to its popularity alone. Yes, 
 it's that good.
  
  It is the best action / FPS single player game I've experienced. Once you're into the groove you 
 are totally immersed with the story and the action. The variety of environments and levels is exceptional, 
 from running and gunning through corridors and buidlings to driving weird and wonderful vehicles 
 to taking on the zombies and the undead of Ravenholm. And how cool is the Gravity Gun? And even 
 if you don't like the ending, well, is it really the end?
  
  It's almost movie-like in its presentation and the cut-scenes were not distracting. In fact, I 
 liked being able to walk around while they were going on instead of being stuck there, forced to 
 take in every word. The graphics are excellent. The world or City 17 is designed to the most minute 
 detail and I think the combine and enemies are superbly designed and defined.
  
  The sound is also superb and suitably atmospheric. I didn't think that much of the in-game music 
 - one of my few gripes. With headphones the sound is superb.
  
  The pacing is also perfect. Quite rightly you get some 'down-time' to catch your breath but you 
 realise it's only because something else pretty spectacular is just around the corner. 
  
  You can adjust difficulty to suit and it runs fine of most machines. This game really did cater 
 for all forms of gamers and their machines.
  
  OK, so it took six years from Valve to make this, but in the end it was worth the wait. As it will 
 be worth the extra wait from Aftermath. It is a peerless gaming experience, providing the closest 
 thing to total immersion one can get. 
  
  Jump in and enjoy a great ride. You also get Counter Strike Source and Deathmatch. Kudos for being 
 able to hit someone in the head with a flying toilet. And then there's the all the mods and maps...... 
 I paid $100 (AUS) for it when it first came out and have got my money's worth. It's probably a 
 bit cheaper now and still as essential.
  
  Quality. Sheer quality on a number of levels.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: borg1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 will have a massive single-player storyline composed of 12 chapters. By taking the 
 suspense, challenge and visceral charge of the original, and adding startling new realism and responsiveness, 
 Half-Life 2 opens the door to a world where the player's presence affects everything around him, 
 from the physical environment to the behaviors of both friends and enemies. 
  
  Players once again pick up the crowbar of research scientist Gordon Freeman, who finds himself 
 on an alien-infested Earth being picked to the bone, its resources depleted, its populace dwindling. 
 Freeman is thrust into the unenviable role of rescuing the world from the wrong he unleashed back 
 at Black mesa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_DeathKnight
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  An excellent game! The beginning isn't very action packed but the end is full of fun with combine 
 soldiers/elites everywhere shooting at you while you have a super gravity gun to kill them with. 
 The physics and sound are amazing. The only thing bad was the storyline, which doesn't much if 
 anything at all. Needless to say, the game was pretty easy to beat and the puzzles were pretty 
 easy to solve. It also comes with CS: S and HL2: deathmatch for multiplayer gaming, which are pretty 
 fun to play with (especially CS: S) . You will probably get addicted pretty quickly :) . I've had 
 this game the day it came out and is still playing it as it is still very popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac_slater11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Amazing graphics. I read a review earlier that complained about poor graphics. All I have to say 
 is get a real graphics card and dump the crap PC that you bought at K-Mart on blue light special. 
 When I first saw the graphics my mouth dropped. A lot of the environment is able to be manipulated 
 and the weapons are brutal. Come on... you can shoot saw blades at enemies with a gravity gun! The 
 surround sound is pretty decent as well. If I had to complain though I'd have to say the load times 
 are a bit slower than I would like. But when you have all graphics options turned to the max you 
 should expect a little load time. Oh and Steam (the security company involved with Sierra) SUCKS. 
 That company needs to be sued big time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is a great game, it features a great selection of weapons, great AI and a fantastic 
 source engine. you can use weapons lik 357, pistol, crossbow, rpg, smg, and others, DM is very 
 great, if half the servers didnt consist mainly of singing retards, aside from that, cheating is 
 fun! big time! cheats allow you to modify the game as well as you could with a mod! commands like 
 slow-motion "host_timescale .2" and ignite target "ent_fire !picker ignite" and gravity "sv_gravity 
 x" make this game playable in several different ways! AI is great! enemies will use turrets nearby, 
 and friends can heal you, follow you and more! this is a great game, and people should quit waiting 
 for halo 3 and play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerslave19
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The first Half-Life set the standard for first person shooters, The second one redefines the genre. 
 This is an amazing game. Everything about it is perfect. I dont have any problems with steam unlike 
 other people. I think it is a great improvement over the original won Half-Life. Anyways onto the 
 game. The graphics are the best that you will see for a while. The physics are amazing. To experience 
 them fully you should download Garrys Mod. The game is really fun. It is like watching a movie. 
 It is a really engaging and amazing. The acting and the sound effects are also really good. The 
 multiplayer that it comes with out of the box is Counter-Strike: Source but you can get Half-Life 
 2 Deathmatch through steam. Overall it is an amazing game and if your PC doesn't meet the requirements 
 you can still get the X-Box version. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraBoAMT
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I am a bit suspicious writing about HL2. I started playing the first of its series, and played 
 all the related games to HL2.
  Its a brilliant game that involves the player in a very well told story, with a great plot.
  
 You see most of the first episode villains in this second episode, making a true fan quite familiarized 
 in the first minute or two.
  It has great improvements in the graphical area, with a new engine that revolutionizes all the 
 FPS out there. Although its engine is amazing, it does not need a powerful card to run in, which 
 is just like what the half-life work is all about, that is, not making an "empty" game with overwhelming 
 graphics.
  The details in the game are brilliant, making you notice that the game was not made "on top of 
 the knee". Everything was thought of.
  
  Although i bought the game just when it got out, i already played it again for the start, which 
 i did not do for any other. Is just one of those games, you know?!
  
  Too bad it ended too soon, at least for me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  Firstly, it is extremely difficult for me to not give this a 10. Nevertheless this game plays like 
 an orgasmic SOMETHING. I DUNNO ITS JUST FRIGGIN SWEET.
  The gravity gun, the striders, Ravenholm, the physics engine. The endless possibilites of ways 
 to kill enemies by flinging objects in their general direction. Not to mention one of the most 
 engrossing storylines I have ever played. I never played Half Life (the original) but from what 
 I've seen in Half Life 2. I can only imagine its amazing worth to everyone who played it.
  The graphics are simply amazing, how I can run them max specs on my machine, I DONT KNOW?!?, but 
 I would like to thank Valve for having such creativity to make such beautiful and artistic graphics 
 that can still run on mid range machines. The physics engine simply enhances it like no other. 
 AHH I'll take to long to say how much I enjoyed it.
  The sound is excellent. Simply excellent. The voice acting is second to NONE. The ambient sound 
 is one that my ears tingle with glee because it is sooooo goood. The combine sounds like, well 
 the combine, and humans like humans, zombies like zombies, and ant lions, well I guess like how 
 ant lions are supposed to sound. Ravenholm creeped me out a little I must admit. Why? Because of 
 those psycho fast zombies that you hear far off, and see, the HOWL like crazy and charge you, while 
 you frantically, and I MEAN frantically try to gun them down. It's simply hair raising to fight 
 this demons of the deep.
  I WISH THEY HAD A HALF LIFE 2 BASED MULTIPLAYER (which is in HalfLife 2 deathmatch, but that is 
 not part of the original release which is what I am reviewing) . The story and campaign is engaging 
 and long enough to keep you coming back for more again and again. This game certainly was my game 
 of the year for 2004. Way to go Valve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZippyDSMLee
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Good soild gamepaly bnut soem thigns like being able to Suit Zoom and drive but not stand and suit 
 zoom, flash light and drowen you in water and a few other lil thigns hurt the game minus 1.0 points
 
  
  Voice Acting
  The best VA in a US made game
  
  Story
  Soild story and a good plot with great charatcers!
  
  Graphics
  I have noticed a few glitchs 
 with tis shadow system but for the most part the is 10X better than D3's engine better preforamnce 
 and ebtter look.
  
  Sound
  Lots of good sound and some remastered sound from the old game.
  
  Music
  Alil old alil new 
 ,dont like soem of the new but its on event so the more annoying tracks go away quick...
  
  Level Design
  OMG I didnt think they could make levels like this anymore !!!!
  
  Weapon Design
 
  They focused on 3 things Physic/Grav gun and Bug Bait and halveing ammo from HL1
  they removed soem wepaons from HL1 and then reduced the ammo for the remainign weapons... the game 
 lose's 1.5 points for it....
  
  In the end its a good game BUT compareign it to HL1 you will feel like hes gotten weaker thats 
 minus another point, but what hurt the game the msot to me is STEAM its a totaly OVER THE TOP netbased 
 copy protection shceam, it reports what level, mod, cheat, ect, ect to vaule it drains preforamce alil.
 
  so 3.5 off a 11 point game is roughly 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aifo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:35 am PT
Review:  I don't usually write reviews. But playing halflife 2 made me feel i owe it to VALVE to increase 
 the number of user reviews. This game is without a doubt one of those games that make you amazed 
 for monthes after completing it. I've played it two times, once on my old rusty pentium 4 2.4 Ghz 
 w/ Geforce mx440, and let me tell you something, even in those misurable specs it looked more facinating 
 than any console at it's time. bought a new system a 3500+ w/ Geforce 7800gt. and it was world 
 of differance, and a lot better experience. One of the most important reseons i bought my new PC 
 tht cost me approx. $1500 is to experience halflife 2 again and again     Yeah it's that good. 
 It's worth buying a new system, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_s_wilson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  What can I say - I was expecting much more of a ground breaking game and story from Valve.... more 
 in the line of the mind-bending never ending adrenaline rush that was the Original Half Life.
 
  
  Why did HL2 disappoint me? Story line was short & shallow, weapons were mundane, and the environment 
 was just to straight forward. Run here, jump there..... a lil' too obvious. I was expecting something 
 a bit more inventive, a bit more groundbreaking..... a bit MORE...
  
  Now, all that being said, THE GRAPHICS ROCK!!! And after playing the "Lost Coast" epsiode, and 
 seeing what the HDR graphics can REALLY do, I am left on the verge of tears.... absolutley beautiful!!!
 
  
  Hopefully the next installment from Valve will go back to the groundbreaking PLAY and STORY of 
 HalfLife.... not just cool graphics.
  
  Why DIDN'T HL2 disappoint? Nice Graphics...... and SOURCE. Just the extra content and ease of use 
 Sources brings to you is worth the price. Hopefully there will be as many MODS (and as inventive 
 MODS) for HL2 as there were for the original HL.
  
  Buy - it's worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragingKing
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 (PC Version)
  Many of you have heard or played Half Life 2. Some of you may have never heard of this game. Some 
 of you just arent too sure if you want it. Well if your one of those people, or just want to hear 
 a review well listen up. (Note, This is a SCI FI game)
  
  Hear comes Gordon Freeman.
  
  The story starts off youre a scientist who has been missing for a while. You start out on a train 
 where you have a dream of a guy name G-man talking you. When you awake you find your self in City 
 17. No weapons no armor. Only you and few people. Now I dont want to spoil the story or talk your 
 ear off. So lets just get to the points, shall we?
  
  Lets start out by talking about the graphics. 
  
  (note, IM playing on MED to High settings)
 
  
  Graphics = Graphics are superb. They get a 9.4/10. Why you ask? The creators of the game to a new 
 engine off there program steam they call it the half life engine. When you start out in city 17 
 the first thing you will see if the player models. The player models look like something from a 
 generation of games that have not happen yet. Very detailed. From their movement in their bodies 
 to their look from the hairs on their head. Next is the lighting. It will reflect off the trees 
 you see and even your gun. When it the sun hits the tree it will glare like it would in real life. 
 Hits glass watch your eyes. Next is the environment. The environment from the trees to the water. 
 They look great. Its like youre actually there. The way the water shifts from your movement to 
 the way the trees turn from the wind. Now to cap the graphics off lets just say you wont be mad.
 
  
  Next is the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay = Well as I said above you a Gordan freeman a scientist who has been missing for a while. 
 You wake up in city 17. Your goal from there is to find Black messa. (Your former work zone from 
 half life 1.) But the AI in this game is pretty smart. They move around try to find cover. Though 
 sometimes theyre easy to kill. But not all the time as the game progresses it gets way tougher. 
 Besides from the AI this game plays like a different FPS. This game requires you too use your head. 
 What do I mean? Well in some parts of the game you will have to knock down stuff to get some where. 
 But what is really fun you will have to move objects and stack them on top to get to places or 
 use bricks as counter weights on a bridge to get it to raise. Its really fun and nothing Ive seen 
 before. This is your above adveage FPS. You will love. I have to add one more thing. You have servile 
 fun guns to play with. IE The gravity gun. (Play game to see)
  
  Next is sound.
  
  Sound = The sound is very well done. You can hear the birds tweet in the sky from the way the enemy 
 sounds when they die. The moans the music when youre in a scary place makes you want to turn your 
 head the other way. I really cant say much about the sound other then it sounds like its 5.1 
 sound sound all the way even with two speakers. 
  
  Multiplayer= For you MP fans. You get Counter strike source for free with purchase witch is your 
 basic deathmatch type gameplay. And you HLDM. Fast paced Deathmatch. Pretty fun. Review. Tons of 
 weapons to play with and just plan old DM fun. Not much else. So if youre buying it for MP doesnt. 
 Thats the really only draw back I see with the game.
  
  So If you love FPS and dont mind some SCI FI action and love using your brain. I say hey go out 
 and buy the game. My Overall rating for this game is 9.8. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanoborg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  best game ever made and i mean it forget halo 2 its way better then that
  the ai is really good the graphics the gameplay all brillant half-life 2 is easily
  the best 
 game ever made. half-life 2 starts of as the slinet gorden freeman 
  in the train to city 17 , earth has surrended to the combine, earth is now a gloomy landscapish 
 with litter every where your objective is you know kill the combine and get rid of the combine 
 citadel the combine were actracted by a the black mesa inncident they from a dimensional rift from 
 the sky 
  cachting the human populaton by surprise , half-life 2 is a must by game 
  for all first person shooters lovers , forget halo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrade12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is a sequel to a game that inspired the industry for years to come. Already Half-Life 
 2 has begun to have copy cats and stolen ideas as it is the most unique and immersive experience 
 in a game. The graphics are sharp and clean especially with the new HDR technology that adds ungodly 
 realistic shadowing and exposure contrast. The AI is more than life like, and still challenges 
 me when I play it. The story is just immersive enough that it keeps you going but not too drenched 
 and confusing. Go out and play it today, that's what I advise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  this game i have played for weeks and weeks and i just cant stop playin it because the game is 
 just so good. There many other games i play but this is one of my best this game contains many 
 very different and difficult levels but u can work your way around all that. i have used no cheats 
 in this game because i find it a wee bit boaring and a bit of a cheat if u do. many of my freinds 
 have got this game and the online mutiplayer is well done to. the other games i enjoy playing is 
 the halo game's and battelfeild even medal of honer. i also play call of duty this game is also 
 good to play and look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaidpass
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is very cool everyting is so textured neatly. I like the graphics but the graphics on 
 somepeople werent that good. The gameplay is very fun and the enemies are so danm scary at sometimes. 
 I learned not to play this game when im home alone so instead i play counter strike source whcich 
 is included with half life 2 and half life 2 deathmatch. Counter strike is higly addictive. I spent 
 playing that much more then playing half life 2. i bought it because of counter strike source but 
 i got 3 other games with it in total four games!!!! These games are Counter stirke source, half 
 life 2, half life 2 deathmatch and codenamed gordan its just a classic oldies game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok at first i tohught this was just like every other FPS and i was right in a way but mot fully 
 this game has one of the best story lines and physics engine iv ever seen. This one starts up where 
 the first one left off that being the G-man appears not telling you not mutch just kinda saying 
 pointless crap. Your not instantly thrown into te action you instead walk around and nearly get 
 picked up and sent to prison by the evil group the Combine but your saved by a old friend of yours. 
 Anyway enough of that back to the physics everything moves, looks, and seems real and later when 
 you get the Gravity Gun you can move some of the heavier objects aroung or just shoot them at enemies. 
 Overall (i think i end all my reviews like this) this game is a solid FPs with an incredible graphics 
 and physics engine as well as a very deep story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  half life 2 is possibly the best shooter ever. everything form story to graphics to guns to the 
 gameplay is perfect. half life two has a uniqe gun called the gravity gun. its used to pick up 
 object and throw them. you can use this to throw objects at enemies make baracades or complete 
 puzzles in the game. do not pick up the xbox version, its only single player. and it doesnt give 
 you the same feel that the keyboard and mouse does this is a must own for both pc gamers and fps 
 gamers. this game wont let u down. it comes with counterstrike soure as well which is the most 
 played multiplayer game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesneak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  when i first played this game i was so supprised how amazing the graphics were that i thought somthing 
 was wrong but i only realized that the graphics were on low and if when i turned them up i was 
 blown away.
  i stopped play halo and started playing this and now practically every other game i have isnt much 
 fun anymore and i have yet to find a game that stands up to this one. this game is perfect exept 
 1 thing the steam deal is retarded and it takes FOREVER to load and it requires a high end comp. 
 but if you have a nice comp and good internet this game is for you. even if you dont like first 
 person shooter games the story in this game is awsome and there are a few puzzle like parts in 
 it so if you dont have this game buy it NOW?!?!?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigbic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The production values for this game are so high, it's like watching a feature film. Actually, with 
 the famous actors in it and the budget that went into it, I guess it IS a feature film. This game 
 simply rocks! I don't care how you feel about first person shooters (I only "like" them) , you have 
 got to stop whatever it is your doing and run down to a store and pick this game up and play it 
 straight through to the end. This game is SO engaging, so realistic that your absolutely sucked 
 into it from the opening credits. Gameplay, graphics, sound, everything, and i mean EVERYTHING 
 is top-notch on a scale of top-notch never seen before. Can you tell I liked the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiemmeh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Since I first reviewed this game, I have played it, along with Episode 1 and 2 a few times over.
 
  
  Now, my old review said I found it disappointing, I think now that further episodes have been released 
 that I can say it is no longer a disappointment.
  
  The story is still somewhat lacking but the instalments have cleared the air a little bit. The 
 original Source Engine is looking a bit dated now, but that's to be expected from a 3 and a bit 
 year old engine. Anyways, I'm digressing.
  
  Let's go over the fundamentals again.
  
  The game-play is still the same old, but when you play more disastrous games you come to realise 
 what you miss about the simplicity of Half-Life 2. There are some really innovative puzzles in 
 HL2, which do go really well with the run and shoot you find through most of it. As the episodes 
 have gone on, the puzzles have got fancier and more complex making for a fun experience all round.
 
  
  Graphics are still great looking and through the episodes they have only got better. Episode 2, 
 although still using the fundamental engine of HL2, looks absolutely fantastic. HL2 is getting 
 on, but you don't feel that the graphics are all that's holding the game together any more. The 
 models look great, and thanks to a very able modding community you can get high definition textures 
 and models for almost everything, making the whole game feel much more up to date.
  
  The sound is definitely one of Valves strongest points. They make great games, but almost all the 
 atmosphere comes out of the music, and this is why they stand out (to me at least) . The music is 
 so fitting, and so well performed that you don't want it to stop. For example the original, when 
 you first start running from the cops who are shooting at you, the music kicks in, and you feel 
 tense, but excited at the same time. As if you really have broken free of the oppression. Although 
 the sound is one of the best parts of the HL2 series, it is also the biggest let down, there are 
 no bad sounds, odd or out of place sounds, but the timing of loading points is so misplaced, that 
 you can begin a part with cool music, and accidentally hit a loading point and loose the entire 
 feel due to the music being cut off. I don't have any suggestions for how they could fix music 
 continuing to play, but the load points could at least be far enough away, that the music has time 
 to play fully even if you travel in a straight line from the time the music starts to the loading 
 point.
  
  Anyways, I'll conclude this review, with the re-evaluation I did of Half-Life 2.
  
  It's not 
 a bad game. In fact it's quite the opposite, almost a legendary game, there are high points and 
 there are low points. The story is incoherent with the first Half-Life but I don't think that matters 
 any more, Valve have created such a world in which HL2 now takes place, you almost forget HL1.
 
  
  It is definitely a must have now, and if you can get the orange box with HL2 EP1 and EP2, then 
 you're onto a winner. Portal, CSS and TF2 are also all great game sin themselves.
  
  Finally, I'm looking forward to Black Mesa Source (HL1 Mod for HL2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  I bought this game in likre 5 months and I am really pleased with that I got.
  
  Gameplay: You play as a doctor trying to investigit the mysteries that are behind the evil in city 
 18. You have tons of weapons to choose from, the storyline is very long and interesting and the 
 best part of all is the fights.
  
  Graphics: Unbelivible. The weapons look better than ever and the enemies and creatures in this 
 game are beautiful.
  
  Sound: The sound isn't very good because there is this action old sound, not the music from this 
 year.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storyline in very long. 
 I would game this game a 10 if there was an online feature in the game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an unbelivible FTS game and it worth every penny in your 
 pocket.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickensqueeks
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:44 am PT
Review:  i finally got hl2 and was like yay i get to see wut everyone is talking about. well don't expect 
 much from the sp full of unwanted loading times and not that great graphics. boring story line 
 and not much that i havn't seen before. the engine is neat and all but is plaged by alot of let 
 downs. as for the mp? well hahah there is not half life 2 mp. big let down. there is hl2 dm but 
 that is a totally different game. 
  bottom line waste of money i would advise in saving your money and getting the games that will 
 actually be games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  HLF LIFE2
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is much like the first games but better. The game never gets repetitive and you will 
 find it hard to stop playing till you beat it. It has many of the same weapons as the first game 
 such as the .357 revolver and the crowbar but it also has some great new ones such as the gravity 
 gun which you can use to pick up almost anything in the environment because of the amazing physics 
 engine that calculates everything from weight to friction. Also the game never leaves its first 
 person view just as the first game in the series, and this really helps keep you immersed in the 
 games amazing atmosphere. The game also has a very cool story that you should like if you enjoy 
 science fiction.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are amazing if you have a good PC. The graphics and look of the game 
 really have a great feel to them to, as most of the time you are in City 17 which resembles the 
 Warsaw Ghetto of World War 2. The animations in the game are amazing along with all the character 
 s the weapon s and about everything else in the game. Also the characters show much emotion and 
 look very real when they talk to you; actually you probably wont see a game with facial animation 
 this good for a while still.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in the game is also amazing in every way from the voicework which is absolutely amazing 
 to the weapons sounds. There isnt a lot of music in the game but when it does have music its very 
 good.
  
  Value: 
  This game has pretty much infinite value because it also contains Hlf life2: deathmatch and 
 counter strike source. Also you can download hundreds upon hundreds of mods already; also pretty 
 soon Team Fortress will have a Source version.
  
  And the Final score is... A PERFECT 10! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siren2k4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  Carried over from Half-life I, Half-life II (HL, HL2) was released with an unlimited possibilty 
 of replay value with its SDK pack. This means that tons of modders can get thier hands on the Source 
 Engine and come up with thier own HL2 Hybrids. 
  After beating HL2 (for the second time) I wanted more. So I hopped on gamespots HL2 Download Section 
 and found a plethora of HL modifications! From wierd Garry's Mod, to a total conversion, Eclipse, 
 these HL2 mods extend your HL2 appreciation. So with its endless possibilites one finds in the 
 modding community, HL2 has a large extended play. 
  
  If your bored with the regular HL2, check out these following mods to add to your HL2 experience:
 
  
  Garry's Mod
  Smod
  Eclipse
  Minerva: Metastasis
  SourceForts
  Hidden
  and Most of all: Substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miller_Time3818
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first Half-Life games have came out i always thought they were a hard weird strategy 
 game, but then my friend got Half-Life 2 for christmas and i played it for the first time. I absolutly 
 loved it. The first thing i did was went out and bought myself a copy. I was stuned. The graphics, 
 the story, the gameplay, it was the best thing ever. I love the story to this game so much . Just 
 the thought of this really happening would be crazy. Sometimes the guys creep me out a little bit 
 with the masks but its all good lol. If you dont own this i am telling you to give it a try. Just 
 make sure you have an awesome computer to run it on because sweet graphics always make the game 
 so much better.
  
  Miller_Time3818 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIFI212
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:47 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of this game were good , infact very good. what i saw before me was brilliant 
 graphics and at first quite good gameplay but after an hour o fplaying this game i quickly got 
 bored as the game play becam ever so repetetive. I continued playing the game to see if anything 
 interesting would happen but nothing did. 
  On top of this the plot is very poor as well and so is the voice acting you might spend about 15 
 minutes playing multiplayer before getting totally bored out of your mind.
  Its a waste of your time and money so really don't buy it. If you want to see its graphics just 
 watch a video and dont suffer through th inevitable boredom that u will face if you decide to play 
 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dementary
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This game follows up right where you left off in Half-Life 1. Although the story mode is not as 
 long as the first, it is definatly more intense and well worth the wait. The graphics are years 
 ahead of their time and the gameplay is amazing. The battles are non- repetitive, and every scene 
 is something new and surprising. Whether a new Half-Life fan, or been playing since day one, you 
 won't be disappointed. The story line leaves off just as suspenseful as it starts off, and is worth 
 every penny. Now, we just count the seconds, waiting for the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millertime00312
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is a game we have all been waiting for for a long time. It is virtually perfect. The 
 single player is extremely engaging and the stunning graphics add to the realism of this game. 
 The gameplay is so smooth and it transitions well from scene to scene. The physics engine is very 
 impressive as well. Once you play through once, you will play it over and over and over again. 
 Ive beaten the game about 4 times and it still greatly entertains me. In this game, you make good 
 use of the environment around you, which plays an important part. Oh yeah, and the music is awesome. 
 As for the multiplayer, I have one word... amazing. There are so many different mods out there for 
 half life 2. Each mod is unique in its own way and they all use the same great physics engine. 
 Games such as Counter Strike: Source, Day of Defeat: Source, and third-party games such as Garry's 
 Mod, are just some of the available mods. My personal favorite is Garry's mod, which is a sandbox 
 mod, meaning you can literally do whatever the hell you want. You can build anything from vehicles, 
 houses, tools, guns, and pose any character from the game in whatever poses you want. Half life 
 2 opens up so many possibilities for the gaming world and the mod community. I highly recommend 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:11 am PT
Review:  if you have enough patience to sit through the Steam Account jazz all the time you will find an 
 amazing game within. I have owned this game for quite a while now, bought it when it first came 
 out, and I still play it with regularity. The multiplayer is fun, and the single player game is 
 also very entertaining. What got me is how my wife would sit in our study and watch the game like 
 it is a movie. She did not understand what a headcrab was, and thought that was pretty entertaining. 
 I did not really feel like explaining it to her, but she watched for a while. The graphics in this 
 game are amazing, i love the seamless loading, as will as the constant change of scenes, I enjoy 
 the outdoor look much better, as you get to see enemies in much better places than just on the 
 ground with you, a la the original. Great game, only problem is the steam account, which takes 
 some time to get updated always, but once you sit down and play it is worth every minute of waiting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButchDapper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Eighteen months later, Half-Life 2 still delivers. The menacing environments, unique weapons and 
 amazing graphics continue to entertain. The plot is perhaps more cryptic than it need be, and the 
 infamous stuttering bug still pops up, especially in the opening sequence, however neither of these 
 elements detract significantly from the game as a whole. It is levels like "We Don't go to Ravenholm" 
 and :Dark Energy" that exemplify the Valve philosophy - a combination of style, substance and gameplay 
 without compromise. Even though the Aftermath expansion has been delayed (in true Valve style) , 
 like Half-life 2 it is almost certain to be worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RGGG5555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is simply one amazing game. First off the story is rally intriguing, and pulls you 
 in. If any of you have also played Half Life 1 some of it might make a bit more sense, but not 
 totally as the game raises a lot more questions. The graphics are the best i have ever seen. I 
 ran Doom 3 and Half life 2 on my vid card which is 256 mb, and half life 2 looked better. The source 
 engine is one amazing thing let me tell you. the physics of the entire world the people when you 
 shoot them and all the weapons. Its just awesome. The Gravity gun is one of the coolest weapons 
 i have ever seen in any FPS. The entire world is amazing, as it is one big chase from the combine 
 which is an andrenaline rush the whole time. I recommend this game to any one. dont own a pc? GET 
 THE XBOX VERSION. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanedwards
Rating: 2.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to review the demo but I'll be darned if I could get it to run. After 9 hours of downloading 
 and interminable set-up of Steam, the Half-life 2 demo would only crash upon loading on my Pentium 
 M with two Gigs of memory and Nvidia Ge-Force 6200 with 256 Megs. The Steam forums provided tips 
 that I should replace my certified video drivers with beta versions, so I did to no avail. Then 
 they want you to mess with your startup files and disable all your virus and spy-ware protection 
 leaving your computer wide open to attack. No dice on that. After many hours I just gave up. A 
 game should be able to run on a normal computer, it should not have to be dedicated entirely to 
 one game. All in all, a very frustrating waste of most of a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldog19892
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best games ever made. If you own a PC or Xbox you must by this game 
 or suffer the consequences.
  
  The gameplay is great. The gravity gun, the weapons, it's just phenominal. There are a few things 
 that are kind of annoying, like the AI (especially in allies) and the vehicles. Towards the end 
 of the game when you have people following you, tight quarters can be awful as your allies stay 
 directly behind you, so if you walk into a room and have to turn around and leave, you've got to 
 kinda push them out of the way first, which can be a pain. Also, the vehicular action is brought 
 down because of it's great difficulty to control. However the rest of the games gameplay is spectacular 
 and will have you hooked from start to finish.
  
  The graphics... oh... my... god. I did not know that level of detail could be accomplished. Characters 
 are lifelike and have all kinds of different facial expressions. There is no "most spectacular" 
 looking scene in the game because pretty much all of it is jaw-dropping.
  
  The storyline and atmosphere the game creates is amazing. The characters are phenominally well 
 done. They have personalities and facial expressions that make them almost seem like real people. 
 You care about them and see and hear emotion in their voices that define their beliefs or their 
 character.
  
  The sound is fantastic. Everything sounds just the way it should. It's just great.
  
  There 
 is so much more to this game than you can put into words. The only way to get to know what the 
 experience of Half-Life 2 is like is to play it. In my opinion, this is the greatest game of our 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsfan282
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  One word, PWNAGE! This game is fun, it has great physics and an awesome storyline. There isn't 
 anything more you could have wanted from the sequal to one of the best First Person Shooters ever. 
 This game will take away hours of your life. 
  One word, PWNAGE! This game is fun, it has great physics and an awesome storyline. There isn't 
 anything more you could have wanted from the sequal to one of the best First Person Shooters ever. 
 This game will take away hours of your life. 
  One word, PWNAGE! This game is fun, it has great physics and an awesome storyline. There isn't 
 anything more you could have wanted from the sequal to one of the best First Person Shooters ever. 
 This game will take away hours of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Best computer game ever made. The game play is nothing I have ever played before. 
 It is highly addictive and fun. The graphics are the best part about this game. They are sooo good 
 you will be surprised to see most of the things in it. The physics of this game are extraordinary. 
 If you throw a bucket of paint at some one paint goes every were. On the walls you can see the 
 cut out of the person or thing you threw it at. And it gets all over the person or thing you throw 
 it at. It is a great game and is highly addictive. Best computer game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilsener
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:46 am PT
Review:  Really the best first person shooter of all times, the first one was my favorite but they have 
 done it again, the story line of the game is great, really hard to completely understand the hole 
 gordon freeman situation and where will you end up afterward but it's an amazing journy the one 
 they are putting us, and all int the shoes of freeman, the new settings and areas are amazing, 
 specially the zombie city and the last part of the game loved the idea of the gravity gun being 
 so powerfull. If you havent played it yet, please do your self a favour and do it, you'll never 
 regret it and the multiplayer of course simply the best of them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARowns
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  I was a little sceptical when I bought Half-Life 2. But my managers and friends had been raving 
 about for some time and said i'd love it. So, I thought "what the hell" and bought it. After like 
 40 minutes of installing (6 cds) I opened up Steam and began playing and the infamous G-Man starts 
 off the game. First off, this game is SO good because it actually starts off as a good storyline 
 and not just thrown into straight action. There are plenty of moments when you have to run for 
 your life because you arent a Master Chief with rifles, pistols, and grenades at your disposle. 
 You have to use your weapons scarcely because sometimes you'll get into a bind when you run out 
 of ammo and you dont where to get some. But, this is BY-FAR the best FPS Ive ever played in my 
 life. Its got the awesome mix of great storyline, and great suspensful action everyone looks for. 
 If you are any gamer at all, get this game now!! It is an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:44 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is a great game because of it's single-player. It is often hyped for its relation to 
 the successful half life mod conterstrike but I wouldn't even bother considering that when thinking 
 about purchasing this game. The single-player experience alone is reason enough. You are constantly 
 immersed in a believable world, with great voice acting, and an immersive storyline and on top 
 of all that, you never leave the first person view. The graphics are awesome and yet somehow they 
 play well on any modern mid range PC. On a high-end PC, crank up the options and resolutions and 
 you won't be dissapointed.
  
  I actually think the only downside to half life is its multi-player, because what's included with 
 the game, in my opinion, is pretty weak. It seems kind of lame to me that they rely on user-created 
 mods to make the multiplayer interesting, because whats included with the game simply isn't. Maybe 
 team fortress will be a lot of fun, but it has a lot to live up to with games like Battlefield 
 and Halo now availiable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotvic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Half-Life 1, I was so amazed at its presentation. The atmosphere was incredible, 
 I really felt like I was there, fighting all the way to Xen. That game was truly breathtaking.
 
  
  Now, 6 years later Half-Life 2 has come out. And I must say Valve has done it once again.
  
 
  Gameplay  10
  
  This time around, you get a really good arsenal of beefy weapons. Like the .357 Magnum, Pulse Rifle, 
 and more. This game also has physics. So Valve put in one of the best weapons of all time: The 
 Gravity Gun. This gun can do it all. It can pick up furniture, explosive barrels, and hurl it at 
 your enemies. You can even chuck their own grenades back at them! But its not just shooting Combine 
 heads off in the game; there are some Air Boat and Dune Buggy parts, which are tons of fun to play. 
 
  
  Graphics  10
  
  From the first few hours, you are pulled in by all of the beautiful work of Valve. Everything looks 
 realistic, and looks like it really exists. The detail is outstanding. The objects reflect the 
 environment perfectly. The Characters look fantastic. It almost feels like you are really there. 
 Turn off the lights, and immerse yourself in the stunning realism.
  
  Sound  10
  
  What can I say? It blows me away again. The ambient sound effects are just amazing. Everything 
 sounds right; it makes me feel once again like Im in this world. The music is awesome. It plays 
 at the right time, and puts you in the mood to kick some Combine butt. Voice acting is superb, 
 and makes the characters feel alive.
  
  Value  10
  
  This game will ensure you with hours of gameplay. H-L 2 also comes with Counter-Strike: Source, 
 an update to the classic Mod of H-L 1. Theres also a multiplayer version of Half-Life 2 which 
 has the Rebels vs. The Combine. There are much more Mods made from Half-Life.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt  10
  
  Overall, this is a spectacular game that must be picked up. If youve 
 never played Half-Life before, and have a good PC, this is the game to get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skinydude5656
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  If this is not the best game ever, then i dont know what is. This game makes Grand Theft Auto look 
 like a disney cartoon. Never, in my 5 years of hardcore gaming have i seen a game as amazing and 
 revolutionary as this game. This game is a ture Masterpiece of gaming and art. There should be 
 a law that says that everyone in the United States should have Half-Life and Half-Life 2. I bought 
 a new alienware ($5412) simply to play this game. I know that it may sound crazy, but for this 
 game, it is worth twice as much. I would recomend this game to anyone and everyone who has fun 
 in playing any games. If you concider your self a gamer, and dont have this game, your far from 
 a true gamer. There have only been 3 games as good as this one, Doom 1, Half-life 1, and Counter-Strike; 
 Half-Life 2 beats them all. BAR NONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  V e r y g o o d g a m e! ! ! ! ! ! !
  No doubt about it. This game is a must own for people with a PC (that is good enough to run it right) . 
 This game is very good in all areas, except it still feels like it is missing something. Also this 
 game will lag like crazy if you don't have a proper PC... which could make some people very angry. 
 
  
  U P S + D o W n S
  AND
  
  +Grrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrreat Gameplay, Graphics and even multi-player.
  + Lots great about this 
 game
  +Awesome and good story
  
  -Slowdown in some areas on some PCs
  -Pretty hard game at first
  -You probably have to play the first to understand this one.... but 
 hey that isn't a bad thing 
  
  P S  If you get the first Half Life do not get the version on the PS2.... it sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janschreurs
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  Steam will only work on an Internet connection that is reasonably fast .. and ppl whats the deal 
 with Getting ur old Halflife shooters added to my games list .. it simply doesnt work! It only 
 shows them after u've payed for them and downloaded them.
  This is really frustrating.
  Halflife cannot be played offline .. thts stupid 2 . If you've finished the campaign the game is 
 virtually OVER . Multiplayer gameplay is mediocre , especially when u dont have a T1 connection. 
 Halflife deathmatch is really bad and has lost its original touch from game of teh year. 
  
  I must praise Valve though for giving recreating so many from the all time favorite titles 
 into source. 
  2 bad u cant play the games on an Local area NEtwork , like the old style LAN deathmatches i used 
 2 have at home. dissapointing 
  I was Impressed with the rest of the game 2 thumbs up , but source . Dissapointing 
  
  
  
 If u disagree watvr , i dn care LOL .. I write negative reviews for most new games , i am very 
 critical so dont be offended by my reviews ... thts not my intention
  
  Jan and PS. Sorry HAlo fans for writing tht review i was a bit harsh LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCGF_Jay
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:26 am PT
Review:  It's been 6 years since the much lauded Half Life was released to an unexpected world, and it was 
 a revolution is gameplay and storytelling. During that time, fans have been waiting silently for 
 its sequel. Everyone expected a sequel. The ending of the original guaranteed this. It was just 
 a question of when.
  
  In November 2004, Half Life 2 was releases, and the pent up excitement was released in a flurry 
 of retailing activity. And with good reason. Half Life 2, again was the defining moment in PC gaming 
 once more.
  
  Once again, you play the protagonist from the original Half Life, eponymous scientist, Gordon Freeman, 
 awoken from the stasis that your employer, the mysterious G-Man. Like the previous game, you never 
 leave your protagonists eyes, seeing the action unfold, without leaving for a pointless FMV cutscene. 
 The environments, from the oppressive Big Brother-esque citystate City 17, the disconcerting town 
 of Ravenholm, to Nova Prospekt and beyond, have atmosphere clearly missing from other first person 
 shooters.
  
  The start of the game, likes its prequel begins on a train, and like its prequel you don; t get 
 a weapon until you get a feel of the place. Many of the new controls fit seemlessly into the gameply, 
 where you expect them to be, and simple instructions lead you throughout the game.
  
  Whilest weapons in general haven't really changed, a special place is always reserved for the Gravity 
 Gun. Originally used to test the games fabulous physics system, the Gravity Gun now is an indispensable 
 tool, and puzzles using them are natural and intuitive. A particulay session is during a jaunt 
 through Ravenholm, a dark town infested with zombies by the new headcrab varieties. Gravity Gun 
 + Handily placed razor blade? The satisfaction is brilliant.
  
  Like any other games, Half Life 2 cannot pass by without criticism. Mostll labeled out the sound. 
 Whilst it's not poor quality, it doesn't really add much to the atmosphere, however it's still 
 a great game in its own right
  
  All in all, Half Life 2 is a game well worth buying
  
  Jay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conquerorsaint
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  ... it made me feel sick! that airboat ride was hell! otherwise it's a very fun shooter that makes 
 you think where to go next without it spoon feeding you the directions to the next area. the levels 
 are huge with a lot of interactive things scattered about. let's do the run through:
  
  gameplay - shoot the heck out of everyhting in the game! even though they get repetitive.
  
 
  graphics - still looks great esp. the water! 
  
  sound - nothing special here, but definitely not bad.
  
  value - play it at least once for 
 the experience and it's totally immersive environment. no epic final battle though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  Half Life 1 was a revolution, having excellent graphics at the time it came out, and everyone was 
 crazy about it, and after 2-3 only the half life 1 mod called Counter strike reminded people of 
 half life 1.
  But 6 years have passed, and when valve said they would release half life 2, people where playing 
 half life 1 , to get ready for a evoution in games.
  Graphics
  half life 2 has excellent graphics, it uses the source engine, which is awesome, and its used in 
 counter strike source aswell, the best thing about half life 2 is that it can work with most graphics 
 cards. You can pick up, throw mess with stuff, and they look almost like real life, the weapons 
 are also very realistic, also including HDR
  if you dont know what hdr is : 
  HDR stands for High Dynamic Range, and is also sometimes referred to as High Dynamic Range Imagery 
 (HDRI) or High Dynamic Range Rendering (HDRR) . The Dynamic Range is the ratio of the largest value 
 of a signal to the lowest measurable value. Current 16-bit integer-based formats use colour component 
 values from 0 ("black") to 1 ("white") , but don't allow for what is known as "over-range" values, 
 for example, a whiter-than-white highlight glinting off a piece of metal.
  
  HDR facilitates the use of colour values way outside the normal range in an effort to produce a 
 more realistic rendering of a typical 3D scene. If you have ever driven through a dark tunnel in 
 your car, and then emerged out the other side into blazing sunshine, temporarily blinded by the 
 difference in light levels - that oversaturation is one example of what is possible with HDR
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is full of action.
  You can interact with mostly anything.
  You 
 need to interact with objects like bricks to pass chapters.
  You can pick up almost everything with the gravity gun and throw it around.
  In the final mission 
 you get a time limit before you fail it 
  There are songs to increase the action.
  
  Play on normal, then hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedMonkeyPoo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  ITS SO GOOD I CANT EVEN EXPLAIN IT YOU MUST BUY IT NOW ITS SO GOOD IT MAKES ME WANT TO POO ITS 
 THAT GOOD GAWD I LOVE IT SOOOOOOOOOOOOOO MUCH ARG I LOVE IT o o o o o oo o o oo o o o o oo o o 
 oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o oo o o o ooo o o o o o o o o ooo 
 o o o o o o o o o o o ooo o o o o o o o o o o o o ooo o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo 
 o o o o o o o o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jewunit21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS THE BEST!!!! IM TELLING YOU IT IS THE FUNNEST PC GAME I EVER FREAKIN HEARD OF!!! DONT 
 BUY HALO OR BATTLEFIELD2 THOSE R BS THIS GAME IS AMAZING U WONT BELEIVE!!! CRAZY STORYLINE CRAZY 
 FIGHTING AND ACTION EASY INSTALL NOT TO MANY UPDATES THERES A CRAZY-A$$ MULTIPLAYER TOO!! YOU MUST 
 BUY THIS GAME!!!! it is the 
  ALSO THE GRAPHICS R AMAZING THE FLOW OF THE GAME KEEPS U GOING AND U WILL WANT TO RESTART THIS 
 GAME IF U REALLY LOVE IT (WICH YOU WILL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) please just go buy it now. your even 
 wasting your time reasing this get ur a$$ out there and buy it! u heard me! its the best pc game 
 since jesus christ was born. o ya 1 more thing, this game is so realistic i got scared more than 
 10 times. o ya 1 tiny last thing... DONT BUY BATTLEFIELD2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SU182
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  VALVe has created a revelution called Half-Life which blew the industry away, Now 6 years later, 
 VALVe created Half-Life 2, The worst sequal ever.
  
  The story is a pile of flop, First of all, It has nothing to do with Half-Life, This is just a 
 cheap story that joints with Half-Life, This game does nothing to explain how Mossman appeared 
 or how Alyx was born, In fact how the combine appeared, This story has no sense whatsoever.
  
  And the graphics go to the lowest level, They scrape it from the bottom of the barrel, The 
 graphics are rendered using the Source Engine which is an Enhanced Version of the Half-Life 1 engine, 
 These graphics use lousy textures, muddy movements, and skins stunning as a blade of grass, I'm 
 serious about this.
  
  The gameplay is boring and useless as a game of Solitare, You kill enemies that do nothing but 
 stand there waiting for you to attack, And solve really simple puzzles real simple, A monkey can 
 figure it out, The hud is ripped of from Doom 3, In fact, This game plays like Doom, Only stupid 
 and uninteresting, not even the bosses can turn that around as you can easily skip bosses even 
 though your required to do them.
  
  The weapons you get are uninteresting, stupid, and boring, These weapons look bland, sound stupid 
 and are too powerful to consider holding, A weapon for example is the Shotgun, It's too overpowed 
 and stupid to be considered a weapon in this game, There's a gravity gun that is added to make 
 the game more innovative but Who Cares???, In other games, It's better there, Pack your bags and 
 leave.
  
  And the levels you go through are uninspriring and forgetful, Their bland and repetive, The extra 
 detail is just there to lose their breath, and once you beat a level, You go to a diffrent level 
 that looks diffrent but actually rips off another level and once you go to another level, The game 
 repeats the levels over and over agian, The game is linear and the levels are linear.
  
  The sounds that inhabit the game are ripped off from other games, Like the pulse rifle sound, That's 
 ripped off from Doom 3, The sniper sound is ripped off from Ghost Recon and the Gravity Gun is 
 ripped off from The Incredable Machine: Contraptions, VALVe got real lazy with this game.
  
  The game actually considers to add some realistic vehicle physics, But we wanted the vehicles 
 to be with us through later levels, Not through segments, I wanted more from this, The vehicles 
 only provide pointless entertainment.
  
  and the Multiplayer is striped down to a new low, The game comes pre-packged with Counter-Strike: 
 Source, A new and improved version of Counter-Strike, But the only thing improved is the graphics, 
 If you are a fan of CS, don't bother with this.
  
  The game should be left on store shelves and never touched agian, It's not innovative, It's not 
 ground breaking, It's not even fun, This is a waste of time that you should be ashamed of buying. 
 Avoid at all costs!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  Half-life, the game that revolutionized the whole genre, pretty much did to FPS games what Doom 
 did ages ago. If Half-life left in an undying and burning desire for more, expect not be disappointed 
 with its stunning sequel: Half-life II. Unfortunately, Half-life II is relatively shorter than 
 its predecessor, and will leave you wanting for more.
  
  The gameplay is awesome. The action packed levels are so well done and crafted you will want to 
 continue playing even though you're thirsty and hungry. You will have little time to live your 
 normal life. Too bad it doesn't last that long. What's even worse is that the plot is rushed and 
 you are left in a paradox all the time. The creators of Half-life II are credited with inventing 
 the most exciting weapon in any game: The Gravity Gun.
  
  Graphically speaking, Half-life II features the most insanely realistic character faces to ever 
 grace any pixels. The fact is, most games score a perfect 10 when it comes to body animations but 
 the human face is so hard to emulate. In this game, you can actually see characters express their 
 feelings through the authentic movement of facial muscles.. A triumph indeed. Water reflections 
 are an achievement of modern graphics engines. And all other effects are gold plated.
  
  Sound and music are engineered in a way you'll want to kill yourself. Explosions, alien voices, 
 vehicles effects, weapon effects... Need I say more? The music score is as inspiring and grand 
 as in the original game. 
  
  Overall, my only complaint about this game is the lack of any real plot twists and the short gameplay 
 time. It is also relatively easy. The game ships with the next-gen Counterstrike: Source. You'd 
 expect it to blow all other multiplayer games away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameBoy83
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Talk about perfection. Looks great, plays great, sounds great, everything. Comes with HL2: 
 Deatmatch and Counter-Strike: Source, and has one of the largest modding community since Quake 
 of Half-Life 1, shooting its replay value through the roof. I reccomend Half-Life 2: Substance, 
 which is one-of-a-kind due to it's single-player, new weapons element, and the fact that it's in 
 a final release. Already beaten it twice with Substance. My only complaint is a slight lack of 
 weapons (variety, quantity) , because it only has about 12 weapons, including the bugbait and gravity 
 gun. This can be overcome using the Substance mod. Well developed characters, terrific voice acting, 
 and a Star-Wars type storyline. (Rebels vs. Opressors) A must-have for anyone who owns a PC that 
 can run it, or fans of the FPS genre. You're not a true gamer 'til youve played this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackel12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Valves new Source engine really shines in this game, allowing for a more immersive 
 game. The music is exellent, after a battle it goes into a sort of sad song, but when the action 
 heats up goes into a techno beat that gets you pumped. Probably the most memorable and revelutionary 
 thing though in this game is the Physics. The physics allow for realistic movement of any object 
 in the map. Whether it be barels, boxes, or bricks. This physics engine allows for a new weapon, 
 the Gravity Gun. This allows you to pull things towards you and throw them at people, killing them 
 instantly. All the puzzels in this game (few) involve physics to. In all i rate this game Superb 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1981jason
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  From the start, your thrown into a great FPS. With an AI integration thats so real, you'll find 
 yourself wondering who's watching you. As if the characters in the game are very real. You can 
 really spend some time just looking at the world around you.
  With a very realistic world that you can truly get lost in. Awesome graphics that will really show 
 what your graphics processor is capable of. The FPS aspect of the game is also very good. With 
 plenty of action to keep you up all night. I spent the first day that I bought this game, stuck 
 to my computer screen. 
  The only bad thing I can say about this game, is that the physics are very realistic. But then 
 again it is a game! I really don't have the right to judge such a great FPS action game. Props 
 go out to Valve for a great Sci-Fi FPS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desol89
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know what to do with myself anymore. Ever since this game had become playable on my computer 
 I had lost my mind and was completely absorbed by this game.
  
  Let's start off with the graphics. What is there to say? ALOT!!!!
  This game really has a gritty, 
 organic feel that will TRULY draw you into the shoes of Gordon Freeman and make you part of the 
 experience. The water realistically reflects light and the surrounding environment, ESPECIALLY 
 the surrounding environment. The various buildings have very sharp gritty textures that just bring 
 the game to life and breathe in splendor at every turn. All the characters, including friendly 
 NPC's you meet show very realistic body movements and show realistic eye movement as you talk with 
 them and they follow your movement. Reflective surfaces look phenomonal.... there's nothing else 
 to say. You really need to see it to believe it.
  
  As for the gameplay, its equally as impressive as well. AMAZING new ideas have been used to make 
 a very unforgettable experience unlike any other. The extensive use of physics in this game make 
 it come a long way and establish it as a truly new piece of art on its own terms. Being able to 
 FREELY move objects around at your own will that obey the laws of buoyancy and physics really lures 
 you in and will make your jaw drop to the floor for the first few moments you see this. Your jaw 
 will officially split from your face when you get the gravity gun. Being able to manipulate objects 
 at your own will to accomplish goals and fight enemies raises innovation to a whole new level. 
 This WILL become the new standard for gameplay, this I can practically guarrantee.
  
  As for multiplayer, they have now released a deathmatch via Steam that is quite fun to play. It's 
 not as great as you wish it would seem on paper, but it uses the physics engine enough to make 
 it truly fun if it's your cup of tea (if you prefer insanely fast action that can be hard to keep 
 up with at times) . But it all balances out since Counter-Strike Source comes with it, which is 
 equally as fun. It doesn't use the physics system that extensively, but the gameplay that it has 
 already established is awsome and insanely addictive, along with a graphical overhaul that will 
 send the original versions visuals back in a duststorm.
  
  This game has one of the greatest values you can ever get your hands on. It BASICALLY comes with 
 3 games at launch for the price of about 50-60 dollars. And the whole package is full of very precious 
 gaming time that you won't want to miss out on. If you have at least a decent gaming PC, please, 
 do yourself a favor and DON't miss out on this game. You will be a much fuller person once you 
 have and appreciate what the future of games may behold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magician9
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:12 pm PT
Review:  HL2 is without a doubt the best game i have bought worth every penny! It has very very good levels 
 with a wide range of environments and so much gameplay. You use your head to get through the levels 
 (though lets be honest nothing at all taxing it just makes it more interesting) and you can always 
 see wot the level limits with the gravity gun. There is a good range of enemies and guns and some 
 levels involving driving which is a nice change. The difficulty is just right on hard and you will 
 want to complete this several times and repaly certain levels and try different ways of completing 
 it. Then we come to counter strike source what can I say. Its worth double the price of the game 
 itself and Im still not bored of if it after hundreds of hours at it. Its just so much fun and 
 as much of a challenge as you want it to be, you play against the best gamers in the world. A good 
 variety of levels and guns and grenades. Just never gets boring basically. So if you havent got 
 this ..... GET IT NOW !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoeveryouare
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Absolutely great. It really is the most innovative game I have ever played. 
 It's sheer fun and adds a great add-on to the half-life series. I suggest it to any one who's mature 
 though. It is very bloody and does deserve it's mature rating. The game is fun, but bloody. The 
 graphics deserve a 10. For sure, they are the best I have ever seen. The gameplay deserves a 10 
 really, because the game is so much fun to play, and you can interact with almost any thing in 
 the enviornment. The sound is phenomonal. I can't believe just HOW good this game actually sounds. 
 When I play with headphones, I boost the volume, and it's one of the most noisy, intense, games 
 I have ever played. The value is it's weakpoint. The game can get hard is some points and if you 
 quicksave at the wrong second, you might have trouble getting out of your inevitable death the 
 will insue. I'd give the value a 9. The tilt deserves a 10. It's just brilliant. The camrea is 
 one of this game's highest attrations. It really defines any game. It works just perfect. Get this 
 game. You also get rewards. Counter Strike: Source, Half LIfe: Source, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  When you say Valve you know what to expect from their product. I think Valve lived up to their 
 name as a great
  game developer which gave us the super-immersive Half-Life back in 1997 and now this. 
  I just 
 began to play the game a few days ago, I know I know a bit late I would say... But better late 
 than never.
  I just finished playing another game named F. E. A. R which I am quite sure that most of you know 
 what I am refering.
  IMHO, the latter game was a total disappointment of a game a super hyped game which really did 
 not deserve the score it 
  had recieved. It left quite a "bad taste" in my mouth, since I am always expecting improvements 
 but higher expectations
  give higher disappoinments.
  
  HL2 is the correct choice after playing such a downfall as F. E. A. R. Something that I really like 
 about this game
  is the logically developing and very involving story, no repetivity meaning that you change your 
 environments every so often, fighting indoors, outdoors in close quarters and in vastly open locations. 
 I love it.
  
  Graphics are a blast in my opinion. Normally I judge a game by it's gameplay and not by it's graphics, 
 so it may not live up to today's high standards but I really love what I see. The weapons, environments, 
 monsters are all very well animated.
  Also their movements look very good and have a realistic feel to it.
  
  Sound is great, there 
 are great sound effects and ambient sounds & music that give the game a boost to the atmosphere. 
 Monster sounds give you creeps, especially when you burn one of those headcrab-zombies, their cries 
 really make you fell bad
  that you did it. I really felt sorry for them...
  
  Physics & interaction. I love the gravity gun, they really innovated with this special weapon. 
 It's like a swiss knife, use your imagination and you can do some great things with it.
  
  All in all, HL2 is a true fun game. It is solid in the sense that feel you are involved in the 
 story and you always stay this way. There games that you simply "get lost" on the way and you end 
 up saying "what in the world am I doing now anyway"? There are no "holes" in the game meaning that 
 you always know what to do next. And even if you are "stuck" it will not be for long since you 
 know there is a logical way to proceed. No back tracking and running around places to complete 
 missions...
  
  Stability is something other game developers should be aware of. This game is as it should be, 
 install and play. I have not experienced any crashes whatsoever, no graphic & sound problems. Everything 
 is top notch.
  
  Well, after expriencing this game so far, I surely hope there will be another game like this one. 
 Not necessarily HL3 but I surely would like to see another game from these developers. May there 
 be more game like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JReefer1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  I started and finished with HL2 never got through 1. Explains why I don't understand the ending. 
 But as far as the experience during the game, it made me want to upgrade my computer to turn all 
 the settings on high. I didnt pay much attention to the story not because it wasnt interseting, 
 I dont know maybe I play through it again starting with HL1. What I like most that I wish more 
 companies did was the fact the game could play on a midrange system (2.0ghz,512mb ram,128mb Agp 
 video card) on low-mid level settings but at least you get to play a top shelf game. All in all if 
 you havent played it by now you wont be dissappointed if you get the collectors edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  Vavle has done a great job of making Half-Life2 the most anticipated PC game of all time - probably. 
 The game is great, don't get me wrong. The physics are so cool, you can mess around for hours with 
 stuff. But at the end, I feel that I'm still missing something - I desire more from Valve. Maybe 
 it's difficult to follow up the greatest FPS of all time, even after five years of development. 
 At the end of the day when I'm done playing HL2 and I shut off my PC, I want more. I wonder 'what 
 could be?'. Valve had some tough expectations to live up too, and it's hard to meet those. I love 
 these graphics, and the story is engaging.... but I can't put my finger on what this game is missing 
 to make it the great sequel we all wanted it to so badly be.
  
  Now I want to complain about the multiplayer - I'll make it quick and simple. This game is plagued 
 by hackers and cheaters and it's tough to have fun when so many others cheat. So overall my rating 
 reflects only the single player aspect of HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeraphimRequiem
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 3:16 am PT
Review:  Well, I finally had the chance to buy this game and I couldn't be more happy with my purchase. 
 The graphics are superb, the game runs smoothly, and the whole story and intensity factor is off 
 the charts. It's a fine sequal, and I really couldn't have hoped for a better game. 
  Lets start out with some things in the game I'm not so fond of. First off, the game has a lot of 
 little puzzles in it, but they're incredibly simple to figure out and seem more like they just 
 wanted to show off their new physics system. That's fine and dandy... once or twice, but after 
 that it just gets kind of annoying. It is an amazing system though, I'll give it that. Secondly, 
 it has tons of loading times... you'll go like 3 minutes and whoops, here's another loading screen. 
 This would be that big of a deal, but sometimes the action just has you on the edge of your seat 
 and then a loading screen pops up and kind of kills the feeling. Other than those two things, I 
 can't really find a fault.
  I havn't beaten the game yet, but so far the story has me intrigued, and gave me a very 1984ish 
 feeling near the beginning, which I'm a big fan of. It also has references to the first Half-Life 
 with a couple of your old friends from Black Mesa there to help you out. As a testament to its 
 prequal, your first weapon is a crobar, sure why not? Beat the crap out of boxes guards, and nasty 
 little flying machines, oh and of course headcrabs are back. The gravity gun (again, just seems 
 like they wanted to show off their physics) is pretty cool, pulling random crap and firing it at 
 people, or aliens/zombies. Fun to toy around with, especially when you first get it and play with 
 "Dog". The game seems to give you those necessary breathers in between high stress situations, 
 so it's not like you're constantly running all the way through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 is the best game i have ever played. The graphic is amazing as well as game play, and 
 game story. I have played first HL game and realy liked it, but i did not expect to get HL2 as 
 good as never before. Game suck you in and you cant let it go until you finish whole game. Weapons 
 are always good, and varies so you can make a kill with your favorites ones. 
  Ai is smart and try to kill you very hard. Game runs at medicore computers very good and dont need 
 no super Graphic card as FEAR game does.
  I am waiting for HL2 Aftermarth and expect it be as good as HL2 itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dessan89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best pc game EVER released. The plot kicks @$$, and fits right with the 
 first Half Life. The graphics are amazingly detailed and is easy on most systems. The gameplay 
 stays true to the original, which is a plus. This game excels in so many ways it would take a lifetime 
 to tell. Barely any noticeable bugs. Its got a chick side-kick, which is also really cool. The 
 game is also quite humorous (throw a grenade at a group of soldiers and watch them fly) . AMAZING 
 GAME! play it!! no disapointment at all! see for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  It was a long time ago that i finished the original game and was somewhat sad that it was over, 
 but now, we habe a sequel and the question is: was it worth all whait? of course it is and it is 
 even more.
  
  The game takes place some time after the events of the original, you are Gordon Freeman and your 
 destination is now the city 17, where anarchy rules and citzens are beaten for no reason. One of 
 the city cops takes you to a room and it shows that cop is no other than Barney, a former guard 
 from Black Mesa. It does not take too long until you are in trouble, you meet up with Alyx, that 
 saved you from almost a certain night in prison and she tells you that these cops goes under name 
 of the Combine and that they are the rulers of the earth now. You are a part of a upcoming rebellion 
 against the combine and you can change the outcome of the war. Basicly, your adventure begins here 
 and it will be required of the player to both use a brain and guns.
  
  half life 2 is outstandig game, the engine lets you manipulate with almost everything, you can 
 move, boxes, barrels and even health packs. I have never seen something like this before. HL2 is 
 also a very long game if compared to the other fps games, it will take you between 10-20 hours 
 to finish if you are playing on hard level. AI is good but not quite as hl1. Enemies will take 
 cover in some ways but you can take out almost every of them without to much trouble, and to speak 
 of enemies, there are lost of them but i will not spoil it for you.
  
  So after you finish the single player you go over for some multi player actionand to a bit dissapoitment, 
 there is no half life 2 multi player at all, but dont worry, you will get Counter strike source 
 and the name speaks for itself. CS is the most played mod for the original half life but now you 
 get a modified version of it, some maps are back, for example, Assaullt, dust and office and it 
 plays just fine even if i am not a big cs fan i played som mp of it.
  
  So is there nothing wrong with it?
  Yes, to begin with, Valve have now inroduced the steam, a 
 program that will protect the game from piracy so to be able to play half life 2 you will need 
 a internet connection and you must register it on steam. This is something that i found it irritating, 
 i installed the game and was not able to play it only 4 hours after installation becouse steam 
 was overpopulated with people on the realease day. A other thing that i did not like much is the 
 loading times between some areas on the same map, sure it is pehaps nesessary but it could take 
 about 1 or sometimes 2 minutes but i overloked it since the game is great. This is the game of 
 the year and you should own it not rent it. You will not forget it in the first step.
  
  Some steam problems and a loading times, This is the best action game i have experienced on the 
 pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwengstax
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 encompassed so many great aspects of what a good PC game should be, and left the ones 
 that shouldn't be there. Each "level" was unique in its own ways, and well as the incredible scenery 
 and graphics it had. Backgrounds had birds flying by, tripods walking, or smoke. So great that 
 i managed to get high details and a very playable framerate with a 3 year old video card. The game 
 is not demanding at all, which makes it perfect for those who want a good time but has a slightly 
 outdated machine. That said, everyone should be able to enjoy HL2's very original story line and 
 gameplay.
  
  What I enjoyed the most was its physics engine and how i was able to interact with even the dullest 
 (but very fun) of things such as garbage on the floor. The gravity may arguably be the most used 
 weapon throughout. The array of weapons was just right, not too much to clutter you up, and not 
 too little that you start to get bored using the same pistol or sub machine gun once in a while. 
 The gameplay has surprising twists and turns so sometimes, you have to die once in a while to figure 
 out whats going on. 
  
  The "puzzle" aspects of the game frustrated me just a little bit such as moving boxes around or 
 triggering this and that to get that open. But in the end, i can't complain too much about it. 
 
  
  The music in the background definately adds to the tension of the game. Weapons and monster noises 
 sounded just about right (though the sub machine guns can use a little more oomph) . Not too repetativce 
 so no
  complaints here. Voice acting was some of the best i've heard, and its always great to hear and 
 listen to them talk to you. Its something you won't want to skip. 
  
  With all of this said, the value of the game is great, you'll be playing it for years to come just 
 like Half Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katfish1990
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is everything an emmersive shooter should be, scary, awesome, and just plain impressive. 
 The storyline is very nice but I found myself wanting more. More story, more weapons, more objects 
 to throw around. But sadly, when I reached the final chapter, I realized that there was nothing 
 more to do. i had beaten it. 7 times. And there in lies Half-Life 2's glaring weakness.... It gets 
 old. But you can make your own fun, if you know how. A large range of console functions alows you 
 to tweak gameplay. Make a jeep appear out of nowhere, slow-motion, negative gravity, slow-motion 
 on your enemies. All of these things should have been in the options menu.
  But, repetitiveness aside, the graphics are photorealistic, and the sound is shockingly real. When 
 you hear a zombie moaning, you'll run and turn the lights on in your room, it's that scary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htrk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  When I saw half life 2 in gamespot I thought that it would be the perfect game with its graphics. 
 And when I bought it a light came to my life to save me from boredom.
  Half Life 2 has 13 chapters long chapters (except "black mesa east") that inmerse you in a futuristic 
 world who takes you to save humanity from Dr. Breen the "civil protection" and "combine" chief. 
 
  But theres one thing that I didnt mentioned, the ending, its a bit weird but I think that that 
 dont matter to much.
  the physic of the game is very good, like the falling of the soldiers when, "well lets just say 
 that their time has come" as gman said, but i think that half life 2 is a very recommendable game 
 for FPS fans like me...
  The voices of the radio in soldiers are great, Ive never played a better game like this since 
 "rise of the triad". The graphics: GREAT, sound: GREAT, storyline: VERY GOOD, gameplay: GREAT. 
 what else do you need? If you love FPS or Action/Adventure games, the first game that I will tell 
 you is HALF LIFE 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_2short4u04
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you start this game up you know its a winner. The great graphics and superb gameplay 
 make this one of the best games of all time. Brain teasing puzzles make this far from linear and 
 you'll never want to eat again. it's hard to find a better gameand for some people, they won't.
 
  It's challenging, smart, and it doesn't treat you like a baby. I love this game and you will too. 
 I dont want to write a hundred words so i'll just type this to take up space lol. a b c d e f g 
 h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtkinsac2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 has almost no flaws and I couldn't stop playing 'till it came to the end. Half-life 
 2 can take quite a bit of loading for most computers, but it is well worth it. The AI can be quite 
 smart, but sometimes will stand like a scarecrow if your not close enough. The graphics are amazing 
 even on low and have really nice textures. The sound could use some work like when you throw anything 
 it always makes the same sound (clink!) . The game is quite long, but leaves alot of lose ends. The 
 AI could have been alot tougher to kill and some of the weapons are a little unbalanced. Even with 
 all those flaws, i give this game a 9.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sceenie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 1 was a revolutionary game and I think HL 2 is just as good. It is simply the best FPS 
 I have played since Goldeneye for the N64. If you haven't played the previous Half-Life you play 
 as Gordon Freeman and you are one of the last rebels against the combine. Well let me get to the 
 review. Let me start with the visuals. The graphics on this game are superb. They are some of the 
 best character models you will see in any video game. The havok physics engine really makes the 
 game feel real. The sound is also good. The dolby digital sound makes the experience of playing 
 this game fantastic. The dialogue is also good with such voice actors as Merle Dandrich and Mike 
 Shapiro. The gamplay in this game is fun and interesting along with the vehicles you endure in 
 the game. HL 2 is a must buy for any fan of first person shooters' in general. Although there is 
 no online availble for HL 2 it comes with Counter Strike: Source and Steam so this is an offer you 
 can't go wrong with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaffster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Iam a big half life fan and before i bought this game i had my doubts that they could beat the 
 first installment. But i was wrong! this game is a very exciting game, the best graphics, sick 
 weapons although they could of had a few more, and good storyline. 
  
  The only bad thing i must say about Half life 2 is that they kinda went off the alien storyline 
 and the portals, and they cut out a lot of alians that were in the first one. But they make up 
 for it with the sick as gun fights with the soliders 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracannis
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Well I must say I'm a Total Fan of the HL series, I played HL and most of its side games like blue 
 shift and others I got my hands on, So I must say My expectation wore really high, and surprisingly 
 I was not disappointed. This 2nd game is just totally immersive, just like the first the action 
 slowly grows, you roll play, and this mix is amazing, with a solid story and a good development 
 of the plot, the story just sucks you right in, there are several fazes to the game, all well explored, 
 the diversity of opponents is really good, and the graphics are simply breath taking, the sound 
 is great and matching the greatness of the game, well what can i say with out spoiling, if you 
 like FPS this is a mandatory game, don't miss it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cricketboy2238
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is an amazing game, and thats all you really need to know. Its a perfect blend of 
 all the things that have made first person shooters evolve on the PC platform. With that said, 
 its not a revolution like the original Half-Life was. Half-Life brought us something that was 
 never before seen on the PC or the console. Half-Life 2 brings nothing new to the table, but every 
 thing it does do it does so well that you cant help but take a step back and adore the overall 
 good ethicality that the game represents. It takes the elements that other developers have used 
 to improve upon the genre and compiles them into one awesome package that will leave your ears 
 ringing and mind spinning long after the last line of text rolls off the credits screen. This is, 
 without a doubt, the best first person shooter I have ever played. Nay, this is the best game I 
 have ever played, however I may be biased with a nearly fully-FPS populated game collection. However, 
 first person shooter fanatic or not, it wont be hard to admire Valves sophomore attempt at a 
 single player shooter. I find it increasingly hard to believe that Half-Life 2 is only their second 
 game, the first being the one that changed the way I look at a computer. This is no longer a tool; 
 this is a supreme form of entertainment.
  
  Of course the most popular subject with this revolutionary game is the technology that powers it. 
 Indeed, this is quite a beauty to behold. However, theres much more at work here to bring the 
 world to life and to cast you into the near future. Doom 3 had brilliant graphics, but to me the 
 artwork was lacking. Every setting you encounter in Half-Life 2 feels fresh. The artwork is absolutely 
 superb. The dazzling portrayal of a European City facing hard times of oppression from the benefactors 
 who watch over the city from the citadel that looms in the distance, reaching up to the heavens. 
 As much of a sci-fi shooter that Half-Life is, it has a unique sense of realism about it. This 
 is something that feels like it could happen, unlike Doom 3 or Far Cry or other such titles. Far 
 Cry isnt a great example because they werent trying to be realistic. I felt that they were going 
 for the over-the-top-movie kind of feel. In Half-Life 2, the setting feels real, the enemies feel 
 real, and most importantly the characters feel real. The portrayal of human emotion is something 
 that adds an extra sparkle to the games prime finish. The level of realism unparalleled.
  
  Many games these days are like your average supermodels. Goodness in all the superficial aspects, 
 however very little content, and by this I mean plot. The story has been rather lacking. I like 
 a story that keeps it realistic. Not like Far Cry where you have a bunch of genetically altered 
 super-apes scrambling after you or Doom 3s hell-infested Mars Installation. This game has a plot 
 that keeps everything simple enough to comprehend at a single glance, but if you dig deeper youll 
 find loads of plot and story to serve as the driving force of the game. After all, single player 
 relies entirely on plot to drive the game and make the player keep plowing through the game to 
 uncover more. The story is engaging, interesting, and doesnt feel over-the-top at all. It adds 
 to the realism that the game portrays visually.
  
  No Half-Life 2 review would be complete without talking about the Source Engine. This game engine 
 must be a modern marvel. On day one of Half-Life 2s release, I had perfect stability. No quirks 
 at all and the game ran perfectly on the following machine:
  
  Intel Pentium 4 Prescott 3.2GHz
  1GB OCZ Gold DDR500 Memory (Running at 400MHz)
  Intel D865PERL 
 Motherboard
  NVIDIA GeForce 6800 GT 256MB
  Western Digital 250GB Serial ATA Hard Drive
  
  This particular machine is probably a little overkill in the graphics department on what you 
 would need to play the game. That may be surprising to those who have seen the level of detail 
 in the graphics, but my testing shows that the game can run fine with the highest detail settings 
 on an older ATI Radeon 9800 Pro, approximately  of the graphics processing power of the adapter 
 used to review the game. The engine is extremely efficient, especially on older ATI hardware, and 
 has an unprecedented amount of scalability. I was able to get the game running very well on an 
 older machine running a 2.0GHz Celeron and a GeForce 4 MX. However, the engine is a lot more capped 
 off by the amount of physics processing it requires. Youll need a beefy CPU to handle all of the 
 crap that the developers have strewn about the world. Using the gravity gun you can manipulate 
 hundreds or even thousands of objects throughout the game at your leisure. That being said, when 
 theres a big explosion and everything goes flying, on the older hardware the game will slow down 
 drastically because of all of the physics calculations required. However, in practice, it would 
 seem like a 2.6GHz Pentium 4 will get the job done, and processors of this class seem to be becoming 
 more and more common.
  
  Your eyes arent the only thing that will be pleased with Half-Life 2. Your ears are in for quite 
 a treat too. The sound effects are great, and the surround sound is there, if not in the best implementation. 
 Valve opted for a CPU based audio engine in Half-Life 2. Owners of sound cards like the Creative 
 Labs Audigy series wont be at much of an advantage here. That isnt necessarily a bad thing though 
 because the surround sound and sound effects are still great. The quality is as good as any game, 
 and features some neat effects that spruce it up a bit.
  
  Gameplay is probably the most important driving focus of a first person shooter after the story, 
 and as I said before, Half-Life 2 delivers aces in all categories. The action is very well thought 
 out, even if the scripting is a little obvious at times and doesnt always work the way that the 
 developers wanted it to. The controls feel tight and well refined. The weapons recoil in such a 
 way that it gives the game its unique feel and style. The weapons are all cool in their own distinctive 
 ways. A few of them seem a little generic, but theyre just about the coolest generic weapons ever. 
 All of the weapons are fun to use, including the pistol, which is rather on the weak side. Its 
 good for general purpose utility like smashing boxes, although a crowbar is more fitting if its 
 up close. The gravity gun becomes your utility later, but the pistol serves a decent purpose.
 
  
  Valve have done an excellent job at portraying humans and their emotions in Half-Life 2. You can 
 understand the characters emotions on a level never before seen on the PC. Valve obviously went 
 a long way to make sure that facial expressions and body language were as realistic as possible. 
 You can easily sense when your comrades are hurt, angry, happy, or scared. They seem to have paid 
 special attention to Gordons co-pilot, Alyx. Her character model is incredibly detailed and displays 
 the most amount of emotion. Truly superb work.
  
  Valve have really outdone themselves with this amazing piece of work. This is quite honestly the 
 best shooter Ive ever had the pleasure of playing. I have one minor complaint: for those of us 
 who wasted loads of time on Counter-Strike and other fast multiplayer games, the AI isnt very 
 challenging. If you have the headshot of Counter-Strike down pat, then even the hardest difficulty 
 is a breeze. This isnt the focus of the game, but I think that they still could have made the 
 enemy AI a little better, as thats one of my most vivid memories of the original Half-Life.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who has a computer that can handle it. When you have 
 the graphics settings all the way up, the game does an incredible job of immersing you into the 
 fictional world of Half-Life 2. I couldnt have been more happy with the turn-out of the sequel 
 to my favorite shooter, Half-Life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper64_86
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  The depth of this game was immense i own the origional half life and it followed on strait from 
 that all of the modifications you can download for it, lost coast, dytopsia and garys mod :P 
 
  The story line was good taking you to the ends of the futuristing world encountering new and strange 
 enemies 
  And the scenary how the gravity gun can manipulate it and throw objects at youre enemys, before 
 you die you need to throw a toilet at some one period . so hop on to half life 2 and not only u 
 get toilets but saw blades, filling cabanets and explosive barrels 
  
  great game a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jugulator62
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  OK, I respect what Valve has done with this game and overall it is fun, BUT, the problems with the 
 overall graphics engine (which by the way is patched and updated almost contstanly) make it a frustrating 
 gaming experience overall. I do like the STEAM concept and have had no problem using it as many 
 others had it does not make up for shortcomings of the game. As for gameplay I feel that it is way 
 too easy and the water level is WAY too long .I understand this is done to convey a sense of size 
 and scope but it becomes tiresome very quickly. This brings me to my last and biggest complaint, LOADING 
 SCREENS!! I'm sorry but after FarCry there is NO excuse for loading screens every five minutes. This 
 more than anything else makes the game unplayable for me. Doom3, Quake4, FEAR, COD2, AREA 51.. All the 
 newest games offer the advantage of full level loads. Valve needs to get on board with this or be 
 left behind. Oh and if you still think I, m just a disgruntled gamer with an axe to grind against 
 Valve.. go to the STEAM support boards and read what even the diehard Valve fanboys are saying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1outlaw
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is a game that adds a new edge to frst person shooters. The gravity. The whole game 
 uses an amazing gravity system that beats any other imitation by far. Using the gravity gun is 
 a feeling beyond feeling, and there are several other weapons that amaze. The story of Half Life 
 2 starts with you, Gordon Freeman in a train being sent to City 17 (or whatever it was) and slowlily 
 you have to kill combine in order to advance in the game. Gordon Freeman has the reputation of 
 a hero from the previous game (which I haven't played) . Later on in the game you aquire the gravity 
 gun. The enemies range from zombies to prison guards, headcrabs to striders. There are also dropships 
 and helicopters which you must face in the game. Overall, there is a big range of enemies, but 
 zombies and headcrabs do seem to intrude a bit too much in the game. But some annoying things about 
 the game are too many of unnecessary scares with headcrabs and zombies popping out of nowhere. 
 The flashlight runs out a bit too fast and having to wait for it to recharge is a chore. But these 
 are just minor faults. The game's most memorable moments are having to shoot down a helicopter 
 with an rpg, as you rushingly run on thin girders of a bridge searching for rocket ammo; Running 
 away from metrocops with no weapons as you disturb civilians in their homes and making your way 
 to the rooftops; fighting a big strider with your own army of rebels; the last level in which your 
 gravity gun goes crazy and has the force of a super electro magnet- you can even pick up combine 
 from a distance and then use the picked up corpse to throw at other enemies; getting past a grid 
 of security laser traps which activate machine guns shooting on you if touched; being scared like 
 hell in Ravenholm and being such a **** that I turned down the volume low so that zombies couldn't 
 scare me; finally finishing the Ravenholm level and coming out of a dark cave into a bright area 
 outside... ... with sniper waiting to shoot you; and finally all the commentary in the game. The 
 commentary and story telling is new and the whole game is presented in first person. It might be 
 new, but i loved it! 
  Finally I'll talk about other games on the disk. 
  Half Life 2 deathmatch:
  One of my favorite additions, deathmatch incorperates most weapons of 
 the story campaign and let's you battle other users online. This is extremely great, if you have 
 a decent internet connection and you like fast paced gun fights. Recommended map:- dm_runoff
  Counterstrike Source:
  Tactical shooter that's fun when you play against your friends on lan 
 or the internet. Not my kind of shooter, but still fun to play.
  Codename Freeman:
  I don't even know how this got on the disk...
  
  Overall Package: If you have a computer but 
 you don't have this game, then consider yourself unknowlagable of games. A MUST HAVE!!!!! :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is outstanding. The graphics are the best i have ever seen, the sound is great and everything 
 is great about it. You probaly have already noticed i love this game. It is so realistic for example 
 on most games you would shoot something and it would just stay still but on this game your shoot 
 something it will move.
  
  There is also a great storyline here it is ( by the way i got this of wikipedia, i hope thats alright)
 
  
  The original Half-Life largely takes place at a remote underground laboratory called the Black 
 Mesa Research Facility. When conducting an experiment, researchers at Black Mesa accidentally cause 
 a "resonance cascade," opening a doorway to an alien world called Xen, releasing a flood of strange 
 and deadly creatures. The player takes the role of Gordon Freeman, one of the research scientists, 
 guiding him in his attempt to escape the facility. At the end of the game Gordon is "extracted" 
 by a mysterious figure known as the G-Man who offers him future employment. Half-Life 2 picks up 
 the story an indeterminate number of years after the Black Mesa incident in City 17. However, a 
 story fragment written by author Marc Laidlaw for the development team puts the intermission at 
 ten years. [4]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  Halflife 2 came to us with the hard mission of surpasing its prequel Halflife. Now thats a hard 
 mission to take on and H2 did exactly what was expected. The graphics are amazing, and the sound 
 quality is up there with it. The game has much action, but it also makes you have to think and 
 consider your options. Halflife 2 is a great game, and Id have to recomend it to anyone who likes 
 action or First Person Shooter games. Halflife 2 could be a bit more action packed, but youll 
 get all the action you need from its Multiplayer modes and all the mods. A THUMBS UP for its Counter 
 Strike: Source Multiplaying game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soninlaw
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  Before laughing this review, you must know, I always was and still am a true Half-life fan, and 
 have been playing the first game from the day it came out till now. 
  
  Me and allot of other HL1 multi-player gamers where excited about the announcement of HL2. 
  
 From the first moment I played HL2, the first thing I noticed was the weapons. Where are my old 
 weapons? Wheres the Tau Cannon (Gauss) ? Why is my bow this rusty? (reload takes much more time 
 then in HL1) 
  
  Believe me, the graphics are great, the single player mod was fun and it sure was nice to play 
 as old Gordon again after a long wait, but is sure wasnt what I (and allot of others) expected. 
 
  
  I hoped HL2 on-line was a better game then HL1 on-line so I could change my addiction to a newer 
 level. Hate to say that I still play HL1 online almost everyday and never HL2. 
  
  HL1 had a mod called Adrenaline Gamer (AG mod, same as HL only a bit faster, with new models, sprites 
 and allot of clan activity) . The people who build it are now busy with AG mod 2, and they are adding 
 the exact things that I and allot of others are missing from the HL1 scene. Maybe HL2 can make 
 a comeback then. 
  
  Half-life 2 is a nice game with good graphics and a fun game play, but its a disappointed sequel 
 to the original Half-life. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefreak1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Besides the fact that Im saying in this review how much I love this game, its also a way to basically 
 "spit" in the naysayers eyes.
  
  First off, thisgame is powerful, sweet mary, youd better upgrade your machine before you get this 
 becuase if you dont your PC will explode.
  
  Everything in this game was incrediably awesome, I don't have the words for it. Its just.......... the 
 near perfect sequal to a revolutionary game. 
  
  The weapons, are fun to have, and the Gravity Gun is just perfect. 
  
  When you play this game 
 I recommend that you go to a couple physics classes first, becuase the physics in this are so perfect 
 you could basically set up something like in the game and youll swear its real.
  
  As for the naysayers, did they ever think their machine is powerful enough? I mean people are saying 
 its "laggy" and thats becuase its a PC game, its not going to load in an instant like consoles. 
 Besides, anyone who votes this game lower than an 8.5 don't know what theyre talking about. This 
 game is awesome and I respect their thoughts on it, its just, you need to see every veiw before 
 you review a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markman002
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  By far the most intense and enjoyable game I have ever played. Got a new Dell 20 inch widescreen 
 monitor and when I fired up Half Life 2, even my wife could resist being amazed, even if she was 
 uninterested.
  
  Not only was the game challenging, but the story was enticing. Naturally there were a couple of 
 spots where it slowed down a bit, but not much and to some extent it gave me time to recoup.
  
  The gravity gun is a fantastic addition to game play and lots of fun to play with. You want 
 to see what a real game is like, upgrade your equipment and play this game. One of the few games 
 actually worth the price you pay for it.
  
  -M 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kau83
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Game has revolutionary graphics and game play. it continues the great tradition of half life and 
 almost meet the all expectation to be succeser.
  game difficulty touches new level this time.
  this game enables you to handle the entire environment. 
 you can grab anything right from bottles to boxes move them, shove them or throw them at enemy. 
 you can solve a puzzle and a way out inmany ways. this time the enemy is someone different. play 
 the game and find it out.
  
  freeman can use lot of vehicles and gunpost in this unlike half-life1
  its a new benchmark for 
 games. but it requires very high system configeration to run it coolly...
  
  Very nice game and worth playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliooo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The main Half-Life campaign, is great, even though i never really got into it, it was still alot 
 of fun to play though.
  
  But the real winner of this game, is everthing else that comes with it! Half-Life 2 Deathmatch 
 is great fun. Quick and easy to get into. Counter-Strike: Source is an amazing game, keeps you 
 entertained for hours.
  
  Then theres the massive mod community out there. My favourites like Dystopia, all bring the game 
 up.
  
  The graphics are amazing in this game. And unlike other games such as DOOM 3 do not require a $2000 
 graphics card to run. It boasts a physics engine like no other, and just amazing gameplay.
  
  Overall this game is definately worth it. Even if you HATE the single player campaign, HL2 
 has so many possibilities open to you, to keep you playing for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyeRazor
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  H. O. L. Y S. H. I. T
  
  I didn't believe how good this game was until I played it... I could've sworn I was watching T. V, 
 the graphics look so real! I can't wait to download Half life 2: Lost Coast...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Wow.... I can only say wow... 
  
  +RAG DOLL EFFECT!
  +Lot's of fun, easy 
 to go with the flow
  +Inventive levels
  +Gman!
  +Array of weapons
  +Teh almighty crow bar
  +Cutscenes, without the cutscenes
  +Same level of suspence
  +Head 
 Humpers... Good times...
  
  -Cheats available... When you activate these... Gameplay rots, decays, shoots itself and dies
 
  -Barney... Agh... he annoys me
  -Having to go first every single time... Just because we have the damn HEV suit... 
  -In the 
 last few levels; The squads that follow you... Idiots...
  -Not enough Gman... Maybe I'm the only one.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  I said before... It was like 
 looking at a T. V... So bloody good. Absolutly no complaints here
  
  Sound:
  
  X. X!!!
  
  Put the head phones on, close your eyes and it sounds like your in the middle of a war... No 
 complaints here
  
  
  The PERFECT game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dario04
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  I simply love this game, it has all of the features from the previous games and it surely gives 
 is something extra.. it blows my mind to think about how great it works even on my pc which isn't 
 the fastest.. the game isn't that hard neither everyone can figure out what to do, sometimes it 
 just takes a little longer and that is the beautiful part. it is nice that is isn't just a shoot 
 em all game but you also have to think a bit about what you actually are doing and what would optimize 
 you way of playing
  
  and if you buy it with the CS: source you'll get everything that you need for 1000's of hours behind 
 you computer..
  
  well I have at least spent 2000 hours in front of my computer and this game... go get your own 
 copy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1956
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  GameSpots review was right on, but I a few bigger beefs with the elements with this game. The first 
 is that FPS, to me, means action and shooting. At times there is little of that. For example the 
 river mission, Water Hazard, you spend lots of time just driving the hovercraft and jumping obstacles. 
 (Do not take me wrong the Hovercraft and the buggy was cool.) My computer is at the bare minimum 
 and the cursor is just visible so at times you can think you are driving forward and you are not. 
 Other games allow you to brighten you cursor why did not HL2. Also there is to much jumping (and 
 through the game) for my taste. And fighting is scarce. When it is there it is intense, just the 
 way I like it and wish there was more. (The best example of this is in the Highway 17 mission. 
 You drive for whiles then have a brief low-level firefight and then drive on to the next.) Puzzles 
 in this genra are plain annoying! Practically when there is no need, a good example of puzzle is 
 in Anticitizen One where you have to figure out how to get through radioactive water waste. It 
 is good because Zombies are hangout there and you have to be careful. With out the Zombies it would 
 be pointless.
  Lastly I had a problem with realty with this game. For the most part you can ignore realty, but 
 when it comes to point of being to ludicrous it takes you out of the game or in my case what to 
 do now? Examples are taking air filled barrels and dragging them under water to set up a jump. 
 Another example was bridgework. I could handle jumping to set point but walking or running down 
 bridge beams no way. Ironworkers can tell you how dangerous it is on a bridge and winds at that 
 height would blow you off. My last complaint with the game was with the squads. They were always 
 in the way. You could tell them were to stand but no way to tell to stay put and out of the way! 
 Most of the time they were a hindrance to movement. Dieing because of that is extremely annoying. 
 (Worse of course is when you have to restart a saved point because you and squad member got stuck.) 
 Why is not there more squad command buttons? Better yet is this a first person shooter or a squad 
 game?
  In the end though this game is a keeper and is one of the very few games that you do not want to 
 stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Counterteam
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I own the game Halflife 2 and its awsome i downloaded lost coast today because i think it came 
 out today. If you don't have hl2 then buy it. The game would be worth it i swear. So if you get 
 hl2 or 1 download steam. You probably like what is steam. Well steam is a thing you download and 
 it gives you all the hl games. When you get steam you much train because the games are mostly multiplayer 
 so you have to play online on every game except Halflife, halflife2, opposing force, and counterstrike 
 condition zero. There a selection of things on steam like chat, news, updates, and more games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixDeath27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1998, which is regarded to be the greatest year of gaming period, a little known game named 
 half-life was released. Little did the public know this game, along with goldeneye for the nintendo 
 64, would revolutionize an entire industry.
  
  Fast foward to November 16th, 2004. The release of this game did not make as big of a bang as Halo 
 2 but, i believe is the much superior of the two. This game was long awaited... but patience is 
 rewarded, oh what a reward this game truly is. From the minute you are the train to city 17 till 
 the last few moments of this game you cannot stop, and believe me you do not want to.
  
  The first thing you will notice about the game is the amount of graphical detail and the facial 
 expressions of many nameless NPC's. This game also uses the havok Physics system, so everything 
 that u interact with has weight holding it down. Also, this game wants you to think but not too 
 much that you are cursing out the designers like some other games. The sound on this game is superb 
 but there were no memoriable tracks such as other games on the market, but with the amount of fun 
 to be had with the game you will not notice. Also, this game is worth every penny you have your 
 typical deathmatch and the amazing Counter Strike: Source.
  
  This game is not to be missed and even if you are not a fan of first person shooters this game 
 might convert your opinion. Also, i crossed over from console to computer gaming because of this 
 amazing games by the crew at valve. Bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyMaj
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  this game has one of the most cinematic openings iv ever seen and some of the best graphics also. 
 the whole game is like a movie and its pretty long too. easily the best first person shooter for 
 the comp. and it kicks halos ass ahahahahahahaha... i hate halo its too over rated woot go half 
 life 
  
  i found a nice full screen over 10min log video of half life 2 copy and paste the link to view 
 it.
  
  http://kevan. org/brain. cgi? B%20Magic
  
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a ++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromHellskream4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  When Valve made Half-Life 2 i jumped on it shortly after it came out. Valve has only really made 
 Half-LIfe games and there good at it. Half-LIfe basically picks ups where Half-Life left off, with 
 a twist. When Half-Life 1 ended it you basically saved the world from aliens that could have gotten 
 out of Black Mesa Reasearch Facility and a mysterious man gives you a choice to work for him or 
 die. When Half-LIife2 Starts it starts your on a tram (famous to the half-life serious) but your 
 not alone your with 2 refugees quickly the tram stops and you get out and start the real game. 
 You are with refugees in a controlled envoirment by a goverment called The Combine. Your surroundings 
 are very immersive and you can see the beaten down look in the refugees eyes. The Cops are masked 
 men that have stunsticks, and guns. If you get to close they will push you or stun you. The AI 
 in Half-life is a little under par. When running from the Combine soliders they will actually charge 
 you and stand a couple feet away before they shoot. The graphics are amazing and the sound is very 
 good. Half-life 2 has a number of guns at your disposal. There are also some puzzles to fix.... not 
 overly hard but challenging enough to keep you interested. There is also a online multiplayer of 
 half-life 2 (this is not Counter strike, see other review) called half-life Deathmatch. It is different 
 from CS because you can use the Gravity gun on multiplayer situations like throwing a flammable 
 barrel into them. this holds attention for a little while but eventually i just went back to Counter 
 Strike. Overall I love this game and if you dont have it Pick it up now 
  PS. make shur ur computer can run it efficantly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurev
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is one of the most anticipated games of all time. Being the sequal to one of the best 
 and most inovative FPS games ever. It has has a hard task of living up the standards set by Half-Life 
 and I feel it does this.
  
  Graphics 9/10: The Source is truely a modern marvel. It shows that hard work, 7 years to be excact, 
 really pays off in the end. The source engine is a good balance of things to give you the most 
 realistic gaming experience possible. Things like phyics, character models including lip syncing, 
 audio, and special effects are all done amazingly. The only thing i have to complain about the 
 graphics is that some textures do look a little muddy here and there although its not common. And 
 the game is very well optimized and scales down for older PCs much better then most games out today.
 
  
  Sound 10/10: Along with good graphics you need good sound to completely engulf you in the games 
 environements. All the sounds from the weapons to the Combine soldiers radio chatter, music, to 
 the wonderful voice acting make the game so much more believable. As with the graphics the sound 
 can be scaled down to accomedate those with less powerful computers. If you can run the game with 
 the sound on high your in for a treat!
  
  Gameplay 10/10 : The gameplay is just awesome. Its perfect mix of well balanced driving sequences, 
 action, and Half-Lifes well known story telling elements. You wont ever be bored with it like some 
 other shooters. The action is sharp and responsive and when your getting shot at by combine soldiers 
 your adrenaline really kicks in.
  
  If your worried about Half-Life 2 not being as good of an experience because your computer, not 
 to worry. The first time i played this game was on an old Dell with a PIII 800mhz,256mb of Ram, 
 and a Radeon 7500! The game obviously didnt look as good as it was intended but I still had LOTS 
 of fun playing it because the gameplay is so good. 
  
  I say Half-Life 2 lives up to and surpasses the standards set by the great Half-Life! Definitly 
 a game all FPS fans should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: element9867
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 has to be one of the greatest pc games I have ever played. You play as a scientist 
 named Gordon Freeman, who just happens to be good with a weapon or two. If you have played the 
 first half life then you alredy know about the residents cascade... If you havent then go out and 
 buy it for 15 $. Its worth. As you play more and more of the game, you just want to get further 
 and further. Its got some survival horror... cough Ravenholm Cough.
  But if you not into that, its not that bad. I played this game for what seemed like forever, when 
 i first got it. The also added a new weapon thats never been seen in any other game (besides doom 
 expansion, but there just desperate and cant make up there own ideas) ... the Gravity gun. Just 
 about the most fun weapon ever. And most innovative... If you computer cant handle HL 2 then get 
 a new one because this is a game you just dont want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eschinellaa
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:01 am PT
Review:  This is a game the every gamer should have. First off the Graphics are astounding but what amazed 
 me the most was the physics. After I beat the game I downloaded a mod called Garry's Mod and it 
 was a mod that let you do almost anything with the source engine. I almost had more fun with that 
 then playing the actual game. Another reason why I though it was so good was the fantastic story. 
 I got so wrapped into the story i ended playing the game many hours into the night. I think almost 
 every aspect about the game is flawless. Definitly one of my favorite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjobo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've ever played if only for the revolutionary physics. It's just 
 so much fun to go through and kill things. Hopefully some day there will be a GTA with graphics 
 like this. But until that day, we can settle for this beautiful game. The levels are intense and 
 the slow parts are still fun, because just walking around in this game is fun. The environments 
 can be used to accomplish your missions, and this aspect makes the game very unique. This game 
 will probably be remembered like its predecessor was. It doesn't matter who you are. This is a 
 game everyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisfitsDanzing
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  s this is by the far the koolest but the worst game ive ever played in my life as a gamer :- ( the 
 loads r the biggest problem / i have a super computer basically and its wierd i run my SOURCES 
 superb but then Hl2 chops so badly with 170 fps its so horrible i cant believe it, valve is so 
 worried about\
  people stealing the game than how great the game itself is and with the video friendly is such 
 a b i t c h h!!1 ok i know ppl cant afford 150-300 vid cards but jeez i can run doom 3 on ultra 
 and some reason hl2 chops cuz its mostly online thats what i cant stand about and even the story 
 was horrible
  but i do love my counter strike source and day of defeat source and ZERO
  
  Specs:
  
  Memory: 1 gb of ram pc3200
  Video Card: Radeon x700 Pro 256MB PCI-e
  Motherboard: ASUS
 
  Cessor -- Intel Pentium 4 HT 3.0 GHz
  Hard Drive -- 80 gb Sea Gate 7200 RPM 8MB cache
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 26, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand the rave reviews. The original Half-Life, although full of idoit hackers, was 
 revolutionary. This new installment is just dull. It has great graphics, but cannot match that 
 of Doom 3's / Quake 4's. The gameplay is fairly good, but cannot nowhere near match the intensity 
 of the Serious Sam games.
  
  The price is also a ripoff, nearly 11 months on shelves and it still has the original sticker price 
 of $54.99. Doom 3, now being 14 months from release houses only a 19.99 price. Serious Sam 2 STARTS 
 with a 39.99 price. The games sounds could also be a lot better as well. The load times are also 
 SSLLOOWW. Annoyingly slow. I also wish the Artificial Intelligence was more advanced, its brainless 
 compared to F. E. A. R's incredible A. I. The multiplayer is terrible next to Battlefield 2 and Serious 
 Sam 2, it just seems to be too repetitive, and is honestly not that fun. The singleplayer, although 
 backed by a decent story, is just too easy, even on the hardest difficulty setting.
  
  The bottom line is that it is a good game in its own, but lacks the finess the original Half-Life 
 that made the game revolutionary. For my choice, i'd op't to Sam 2, Doom 3 / Quake 4, or F. E. A. R. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Half -Life 2 offers awesome graphics, sound, and game play. Nice long detailed story line. Very 
 detailed and beautiful gameplay and scenery. The weapons in the game were a little weak. It would 
 have been better to have an actual assault rile, and better plasma/high-tech gun. the AI is sweet 
 and the enemy soldiers are really cool.. Kind of has a war of the worlds feel to it in a way... 
 hmm. This game is definatly worth buying! Plus you get Counter Strike Source out of it! Hell yeah 
 can't go wrong at all! This is one of those games that every FPS fan should have no doubt.. If 
 you are sceptical in anyway! Don't be it's a worth while purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3-ra
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Personally I love WW2 games, this is my favorite one. Thanks to the Source Engine HL2 was built 
 on, this game has alot of potential. The detail on the guns are just perfect, it really looks like 
 your really holding the gun. The realism in this game is great but can be a pain in the... The 
 guns recoil can frustrate you, but can be really helpful. The MG42 for example, when not mounted 
 the recoil is extreme. When you mount it, then your nearly invincible. The bad thing is that there 
 are very few maps. Overall, this is a WW2 game you have to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guille2389
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  From graphics to controls to excelent AI, this game has nothing bad going for it. Nicely developed 
 puzzles and action packed levels make this game a must have. The game starts out without with Gordon 
 arriving at city 17, a nice introduction as you are awed by the gorgeous graphics. The people are 
 afraid of the Combine, who act as a policing force in the city. As the game develops, more enemies 
 and cooler weapons to destroy those enemies are available. When talking about vehicles, this game 
 provides long sequences that require you to solve puzzles as you are riding along highways or sewers. 
 The final boss battle is also impressive as it has action combined with puzzles and a little timer 
 to speed up the mix. All around, I see nothing bad for this game except the sounds which could 
 use alittle raising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  The original Half Life qualifies in the top 5 of my all time favorite games, ever. Half Life 2 
 bumps the original out of the running. HL2 is a truly amazing game. Graphically, technologically 
 and story wise, HL2 blows any other FPS game out of the water. It's beautiful and encompasses everything 
 the original gave you plus so much more. Gone are the strange alien life worlds from the original 
 and replaced with an elite military force bent on killing almost everything that walks. It's also 
 replaced with a somewhat frightening section of the game in a village with creepy undead and creatures 
 that add a fun change to the typical feel of the shooter. The weapons are balanced and well thought 
 out and the voice acting is top notch. I've played the game through twice on two different systems 
 and if you can afford it, it's so much more amazing on a top end system. Still, very playable and 
 enjoyable if you can't afford to upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Well it took six years but it was worth the wait. Half-Life 2 is a very fun game that has tons 
 of replay value. The story is good but it would have been nice if it revealed a bit more information. 
 If you don't mind a general lack of gore and no mutilation of enemy bodies then get this game. 
 The gravity gun is a very cool tool that also functions as a powerful weapon when you want to save 
 ammo. The ai is decent but not as good as you would expect from the sequel of Half-Life. Most enemies 
 will either stand still and shoot you or move slowly to the side. Others will rush you and try 
 to attack you at close range. Late in the game non alien enemies will duck in and out of cover 
 and toss grenades at you if the see you run to cover. If your good at strafing and shooting most 
 foes won't pose much of a threat to you. When you are backed up by friendlies it is easy just to 
 rush the enemy and kill them at close range with your shotgun or magnum. Sadly increasing difficulty 
 only makes enemies take more damage and makes you take less. This game is great to look at I would 
 say it has the most realistic looking models in any game to date. Animation is superb peoples eyes 
 follow you as you move and the really look like they are talking. Half-Life 2 has the most realistic 
 water in any game period. There is also good particle effects, explosions and debris from bullets 
 hitting surfaces ect. The only thing that isn't good is the shadows which look like blobs most 
 of the time.
  
  The game sounds even better the voice acting is excellent and the environmental, weapon sounds 
 are great. Half-Life 2 is a long game that will take you a few dedicated nights to finish. After 
 that you can play some Counter-Strike Source or Half-Life 2 death-match. Go buy this game you won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sterkey25
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say half-life 2 is probably one of the best games ever to be put out. I have to 
 start with the graphics. Amazing. The source engine is encdible. The game features great looking 
 water. The glass shattering effect is awesome and pretty much everything from inside out the levels 
 look incredible. The characters are also extremely well done. Not only do they look good but they 
 also sound good. The voice acting is great and really gets you into the game. The weapons are very 
 cool. The gravity gun is probably the funnest weapon you will ever use in a game. You also get 
 great vehicles to drive around in. The gameplay is very interactive. Usually you are using real 
 life objective to help you get around the levels. To help with that you use the great physics engine 
 wich is almost identical to real life. All in all I think this game is the best one ive ever seen. 
 From graphics to gameplay I give it a 10 out of 10. Now be prepared for Lost Coast to see how they 
 use the source engine with HDR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boy_Make_Fire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  While the game boasts spectacular visuals, it unfortunatley is let down by its length. While the 
 game pushed the genre foreward, unlike Half-Life 1, the gameplay has been quickly overtaken by 
 newer and better games.
  Overall the AI is good, but is occasionally let down by inexplicable actions. While origanlly said 
 to have ground-breaking AI, i never saw much more than the AI seeking cover or trying to flush 
 you out with grenades (a feature present in the games predecessor) . By todays standards, even when 
 turned up to the maximum dificulty, the AI never seems to cause a severe problem to the player, 
 only weapon damage appears to be increased.
  Many of the ideas originally boasted by it never seemed to make it into the final product (such 
 as blockng doors etc...) . 
  Many of the games set pieces are, in fact, very entertaining to play over. But the boast that the 
 AI adapts to the given situation never seems to ring true.
  Another small fact that detracts from the overall game is the weaponary. Unfortunalty it never 
 seems to come close to what it should have been. Obviously the gravity gun add tremendous fun to 
 the overall game, but the rest of the weapons feel sadly lacking the punch they should have.
  However the games saving grace is in the graphics engine itself. The physics engine is like nothing 
 ever experianced. All of the objects in the game really feel and react like they would in real 
 life.
  However no review would be complete without a msntion of the multiplayer and the modding scene. 
 Just like Half-Life 1, the sequal has an absolutly incredible modding fan base. Every mod imaginable 
 is ot there or being made. From mods that make the games graphics sparkle more to the simply ingenious 
 Gary's Mod, which lets you play with the physics engine of the game.
  Admittedly i may have been a little hard on the game. While it does feature a completly immersive 
 world, spectacular physics, the gameplay is still lacking. Sadly at times it runs more like a tech 
 demo than a proper game.
  Overall a very good game, but not quite the push foreward that was expected. Perhaps the expansion 
 pack will fix some of the mistakes Half-Life 2 suffered from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCrazyFou
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I ever played... Ok the single player is not the best, but the graphique and 
 physical realism make all the difference. There is a lot of mod for hl2 like garry mod for make 
 your own scenario. The online version (hl2 deathmatch) is the best online game i ever played beaucause 
 this always evolve, with a map creation system some peaople create them own maps with more weapon, 
 more vehicule (helicopter, jetpack, car , etc... we can play at single player level in online coop 
 with the garry mod... brief, its the best gam ever made and better than battlefield 2... hey gamspot 
 you are too severe with your grade give a 10 out 10!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  what a great game I have played this thing through more then 4 times I, m able to run it at 1600x1200 
 which is just beautifull graphics! so many NEW games out say they have better graphics RIGHT if 
 u have never seen this game on a high end machine U have no clue! I have had this game since the 
 release and have 98% of all the new FPS out to date even the **** game "FEAR" that is supposed 
 to have the best graphics on the planet !well if your playing it on a PLATSTATION i can see why! 
 Nothing to date even comes close to the game play or the graphics of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliverh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:28 am PT
Review:  HL2 isnt just a game Ill go over it in details.
  For the graphics has greatly improved over the years with the new rag-doll effect in it, with realistic 
 characters and great voice acting.
  Gameplay has not changed which is a good thing without any complication of controls, storys a bit 
 boring but hey thats 1 point off the game.
  With the sound is different with real sound gun fire and grenades the groans of the enemys flying 
 through the air once youve dropped a grenade on them. and a few soundtracks in it to be involved 
 in the action when its tense.
  The value is a great deal with its lowest over here in the UK its 20 which involves HL2 Deathmatch 
 and Counter-strike source which I have also reviewed on the site.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kachurr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  I've played many FPS games over the years, and Half-Life 2 is clearly the best in terms of gameplay, 
 graphics, and story. It even runs well on my older PIII 1 GHz machine, so I can't complain! Plus 
 it's mod-ablility is great for the gamer community, and adds greatly to its value overall. Character 
 models and animation are quite remarkable, and the vehicles are also quite realistic.
  
  The physics features are especially innovative in this game, and set Half-Life 2 apart from similar 
 games in the genre. Looking forward to other games and mods based on the Source engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patchtheman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  THE UP SIDE
  
    LONG awaited sequel to one of the greatest games of all time.
   AWESOME graphics.
   AWESOME gameplay
   AWESOME story
   AWESOME characters
   Amazingly 
 thought out maps
   Some of the best AI ever.
   The best physics i've ever seen in a game (they are almost real)
   Great array of weapons.
 
   VERY fun
   Pretty big
   Brilliant animation
   Almost whole game is set in realtime-even most of the videos.
   Comes with the fantastically 
 entertaining online Counter Strike: Source
   No obvious bugs whatsoever.
   SO many enviorments: CIty to beach to factory etc
   Vehicles!
   You'll never see the same 
 face twice. (Apart from the enemies who have masks)
   GREAT sound quality.
  THE DOWN SIDE
  
   Some people have problems with the program used to play it: STEAM
   You 
 must have the internet to install it.
   Not as big as Half-life 1
   The main girl NEVER gets nakes :- (
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff_d5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks no dought, it beats the compatition, again no games perfect but the fact that this 
 game will always be played and not tossed away like others is awsome (and ya im refering to the 
 mod's)
  its amazing to see the changes games have gone through over the years and it will be a dream to 
 see the next evolution of this amazing game.
  
  only thing that actually felt any artificial was the ai and the lands indistructability (rockets 
 and explosives should make holes in ground)
  
  i cant imagine any other downsides to this game other than my own computer barely able to run it. 
 Love the story wish there was a theatrical movie for this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsfans
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  "The Best Game Ever Made" and game of the year for more than 50 publications.
  The best game ever made according to PC gamer and that is exactly what it is. Some of the best 
 graphics out there, real life physics to play around with, great story telling, and virtual characters. 
 I waited six years for this game and when I got it was even more than what I expected it to be. 
 In the game you start out waking up from suspended animation an untold number of years since the 
 Black Mesa incident, Valve assumed you chose to work for the G-man ant the end of Half-life. After 
 being chased in the first 5 minutes of the game you meet up with your buddies back from Black Mesa. 
 How amazing they looked, just like real people. Also another thing that made this game absolutely 
 amazing was the physics system allowing you to kill enemies with a toilet using the Gravity gun, 
 solve a puzzle, or watch bodies fly when hit by explosions. Later in the game the soldiers get 
 so smart the get behind cover, call out to flank you and use amazing tactics to try to defeat you. 
 The only thing that disappointed me was the cliffhanger ending that happened at the end just like 
 Half-life. The good thing is that an expansion pack is going to be released so the story can be 
 continued so no big whoop anymore. Half-life 2 also comes with two great multiplayer games the 
 legendary Counter-Strike and Half-life 2 Death match both offer great game play and HL2 Death match 
 offers laugh out loud moments with physics, like people falling off cliffs its all good. Also 
 consider the mod community tons and tons of the multiplayer fun comes from mods of HL2 Death match 
 and Counter Strike. This game is truly the best game ever made and with aftermath coming out it 
 will continue its legacy for a longer time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CtEagan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The best game ever made according to PC gamer and that is exactly what it is. Some of the best 
 graphics out there, real life physics to play around with, great story telling, and virtual characters. 
 I waited six years for this game and when I got it was even more than what I expected it to be. 
 In the game you start out waking up from suspended animation an untold number of years since the 
 Black Mesa incident, Valve assumed you chose to work for the G-man ant the end of Half-life. After 
 being chased in the first 5 minutes of the game you meet up with your buddies back from Black Mesa. 
 How amazing they looked, just like real people. Also another thing that made this game absolutely 
 amazing was the physics system allowing you to kill enemies with a toilet using the Gravity gun, 
 solve a puzzle, or watch bodies fly when hit by explosions. Later in the game the soldiers get 
 so smart the get behind cover, call out to flank you and use amazing tactics to try to defeat you. 
 The only thing that disappointed me was the cliffhanger ending that happened at the end just like 
 Half-life. The good thing is that an expansion pack is going to be released so the story can be 
 continued so no big whoop anymore. Half-life 2 also comes with two great multiplayer games the 
 legendary Counter-Strike and Half-life 2 Death match both offer great game play and HL2 Death match 
 offers laugh out loud moments with physics, like people falling off cliffs its all good. Also 
 consider the mod community tons and tons of the multiplayer fun comes from mods of HL2 Death match 
 and Counter Strike. This game is truly the best game ever made and with aftermath coming out it 
 will continue its legacy for a longer time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobewine
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the best i have played in a long time. i havent played many first person shooters 
 and generally disregarded them, but this game has me hooked on them now. the graphics were excellent. 
 i really enjoyed how the developers threw in vehicle parts in the game. gameplay was pretty fast 
 and got intense in many parts of the game. there were quite a few scenes that got my pulse racing. 
 the gravity gun and the physics engine were a blast to play with. i also loved how you could summon 
 and control a posse of sand bugs during a later part of the game.
  
  bottom line: a great game that is a lot of fun to play. if you havent played it, go out and get 
 it today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradoo16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 will blow you off the chair that you will be sitting on when you install and run this 
 game, the source engine used to back up this game has done the best job possible to make it the 
 most fun that it can be for anyone to play, the game keeps you on the edge of your seat for every 
 single moment that you play this brilliant game.
  
  Hopefully there is another version to come out, but there is nothing that this game has missed 
 out on. ITS GOT EVERYTHING, plus it comes with counter strike: Source, its counter strike but run 
 with the source engine and there is more maps and more mods to keep you playing for as long as 
 you choose. Very well worth your money, 2 games in 1, cant beat that :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hucke
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it had its release. I stayd away from school just to play it :D! The AI 
 for example is the best Iv ever seen. Then we have the graphic! The best ever if you have a computer 
 who can show it. 
  You play as Gordon Freeman from the first game. Hi has been transported to City17 and its ruled 
 by the police and military. You met Barney, the security guard from Black Mesa and hi is the chief 
 of the rebelliation. The police come after you and you have to get away. On the way you have to 
 go threw Ravenholm. There it is some creatchers thath not are dead but not alive.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Excellent graphics; revolutionary physics engine; immersive combat; great setup for expansions/sequel; 
 great combat; good voice acting
  BAD: Bad storyline; anti-climactic ending; lacks atmosphere of original; AI not nearly as good 
 as promised; Steam sucks
  
  People who are reading this review will probably look at it and go "pfff, a 7.3..."dissapointing", 
 everyone else says it's good, I don't know what this guy's problem is."
  
  Well, my problem is is this game was not nearly worth 6 years of waiting. Not even close. It makes 
 me wonder just what the hell Valve was doing with 6 years. Here's the bottom line... they tried 
 to make a great, revolutionary game, but they failed.
  
  Okay, so I come to the game and I open it up. It looks really awesome, right? Okay, so I start 
 playing. It's fun as hell. I get further. And further. Still fun. Great gameplay. So I play more. 
 It doesn't have that old Half-Life feel to it anymore, so I start to wonder "where's the old Half-Life?" 
 Okay, the storyline is more of an attempt than the other one, and it's starting to develop, maybe 
 it will get really cool. So, you know, I keep playing, it's still really fun. I find the badguy/boss, 
 then it's pretty much POOF, it ends. Just like that. Extremely anti-climactic. The ending? No... they 
 just threw these credits in here to throw us off..... right?
  
  Well, I was wrong. I was also wrong that I thought they had the magic to pull off the great atmosphere 
 and gameplay of the original. Gameplay... yes. The combat itself is great. It's awesome. It's fun. 
 It's realistic. One of the later levels, where you fight in the ruins of city 17, with just chaotic, 
 disorganized combat flaring all around you, that was awesome.
  
  However, the combat is nothing new or interesting. Sure, the gravity gun utilizes the awesome, 
 revolutionary physics engine beautifully. But the gravity gun is part of the problem. The gravity 
 gun fills in for what the crowbar use to be. Any diehard fan of the original knows that the crowbar 
 was one of the things that made Half-Life, well, Half-Life. Now it's pretty much useless. That 
 in itself really isn't that big of a deal. However, the thrilling, immersive atmosphere from the 
 original that always kept you on edge and really immersed you in the combat did not returned in 
 this game. The combat itself is what immerses you, not the atmosphere and feel of the game, but 
 what really makes this any different than any other game? The puzzles were also not nearly as clever 
 or as difficult as the original. I only remember being really stumped once. The artificial intelligence 
 isn't even as good as the original, a game that was made in 1998. Every event is still completely 
 scripted. The minor characters aren't developed enough, although I do like the fact that there 
 are actual characters to get to know. While it's nice that they added vehicles and the vehicle 
 levels are very fun (they sometimes drag on, though) , the vehicles are terribly hard to control.
 
  
  Another one of my complaints is that there's not enough traditional Half-Life aliens. This especially 
 detracts from the atmosphere of the original game. At the end of the game, they give you this ridiculously 
 overpowered superweapon that essentially makes you invincible. Everything that you need to win 
 the game is always at your hands. The campaign is incredibly easy, not to mention the ending was 
 worse than Halo 2's ending. Basically, it boils down to a typical first-person shooter with great 
 graphics and a revolutionary physics engine. The single player campaign seemed to take little effort 
 and simply seems to be a playground for the physics engine. The level design is still different, 
 and there's no weird alien world in this one, but I don't think it's as creative as the original.
 
  
  So, go ahead, try it out. If you never played the original game, then this will surely be a fun 
 experience that never fails to thrill you. If you were an adamant fan of the original, however, 
 it will feel bland, effortless, and devoid of atmosphere. Nothing like the original, which was 
 a classic, revolutionary game. The series took a step backwards. Even if the combat is immersive, 
 fun, and intense... this just isn't Half-Life anymore. It's Halo with a watered down storyline, 
 really good graphics, and an awesome physics engine. Only... Halo is a hell of a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  In Half-Life 2, you once again assume the role of Gordon Freeman, the theoretical physicist and 
 dimension-hopping commando who saved the world from an alien invasion at the end of Half-Life. 
 Or did he? Half-Life 2 starts you off facing the infamous G-Man, the mysterious blue-suited character 
 from the first game. At the end of Half-Life, the G-Man offered you a choice: work for him or die. 
 Since there would be no sequel if you chose the latter, Half-Life 2 assumes you chose the former, 
 and you start the game in a train entering City 17 for your introduction into this new world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 picks up many years after the original, needless to say things have changed while Mr. 
 Freeman (the character you play as) has been gone. This game gives a spectacular feel and look 
 of realism, no matter how many times you've played it; it's still scary fighting head crabs and 
 zombies. The only problems with this game are one: long load times, two: an ultimate gaming machine 
 is a requirement if you want to enjoy it at full spec, and finally it's just too short. 
  
  Just as your getting into the game it's over and what's worse, it leaves you hanging. However for 
 those who have the hardware requirements this is a great game, and I would recommend it to anyone, 
 however for those who cannot afford an ultimate gaming machine: wait for the consol versions to 
 see what you have been missing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofakingdom92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  my friend was telling me to lay off the halo 2 and try something new. first i was thinking, screw 
 you! but then, i saw half-life 2. when i baught it, i was hooked on it. i beat it 6 days after. 
 i was just plainly amazed. i loved the graphics first of all. and counter strike was even cooler. 
 im sorry, but this game has to be the best thing that happened to gaming history. although, i had 
 touble in some parts. like in the beginning, i had trouble getting a weapon. i am not patient. 
 and you can pick up almost anything at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcaN3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  I Love this game!!! it's thrilling!!! it's worth the waiting!!! and it's just a MASTERPIECE!!!!
 
  The graphics is detailed and full of amazing effects!! the storyline is arresting! and the learning 
 curve is really fast! I'm telling you I played over 100 Hours and I just can't get enough of it!!! 
 the music is fitting perfectly and it just perfection.
  Oh, and just for your knowledge there are cars you can drive in and even shot from them!!!
  In 
 my opinion, buy this game fast because if you haven't played it yet, you don't know what is a great 
 amazing game it is! and belive me, it worth every cent!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyphern
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  Difficulty: In half-life 2 the difficulty is just right for everybody since it is customizable 
 in the options menu. What i chose to do is go through it on easy. Afterwards i attempted it in 
 normal. I'm pretty sure the training from easy allowed me to do normal.
  Learning Curve: Theres really nothing new its like any other FPS. However those of you new to FPS's 
 the looking around and moving can take a bit getting used to.
  Gameplay: The gameplay is quite amazing it has everything from puzzle solving to mindless zombie 
 killing to driving boats and eventually commanding an antlion army. Gameplay is solid throughout 
 the game an presents an amazing storyline. 
  Graphics: what can i say WOW the graphics honestly make you think that the world is real and your 
 controlling it from your home computer (and for obvious reasons you not) . But they are extremely 
 realistic i dont think anyone will be let down.
  Sound: The sound is MUCH better then the original footsteps sound like footsteps gunshots echo 
 in certain areas, quite amazing.
  Value: I'd say its definetly worth the price but not in the singleplayer aspect. For singleplayer 
 your playing through the exact same thing over and over. Since i dont want to give any of the game 
 away, say theres a hidden switch second time through youll walk right to it and lose the fun of 
 searching for it. aswell all the puzzles are solved the exact same way everytime. However the wonderful 
 thing about half life 1 and now half life 2 is that stem lets the community design mods. For those 
 of you who dont know what a mod is it's pretty much a tweak that can change the entire gameplay 
 around. Mods are just beginning to start flowing out many of them are definetly going to be worth 
 the wait.
  Overall: The singleplayer may get repetitive but multiplayer sure doesnt. so your bored of deathmatch? 
 well head on into the mod section of steam and find yourself a mod that you like. A few things 
 that do take away from the realism are not all doors can be opened and they dont even present a 
 thudding like the doors locked these doors just... cant.. be... opened! If your looking for a fun 
 FPS that will present you with endless online play i reccomend half life 2 i still play it even 
 now and i bought it the day after its release.
  
  Seeing as this is my first review i hope you enjoyed it and i hope it leads to your purchase of 
 the game, who knows maybe ill see you online one day ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogreg8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:10 am PT
Review:  Its a game full with ecitement, gore and bloody. Based on aliens, guys in masks, and us!! I waited 
 for 1 hour for this game but it is a worth waiting game. It's graphic is great so is the music (sound) . 
 A wait worthy game to play now. Requires a steam account to download. Great game this is. You can 
 also drive jeeps and airboats in this game. But its a poor selection of guns. Wish that in half life 
 3 there'll be more guns or weapons. AND IF THERE ISN'T I'LL BE VERY  
 if there isn't, i won't play it then. Also the cheats can be found in the  
 
  And the guides can be found in this 
 
  So enjoy this game then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckyman24
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game was made for the world to see how unbelievable the FPS's (first person Shooters) will 
 be in the future. Half Life 2 has made a turning point in story-telling FPS's. From the start to 
 the finish, Valve has given u a story u will remember for not even years but centuries. If u do 
 not own this game because your computer is not well enough to run it. Buy a new one as fast as 
 u can. This game is needed by al action game players!!! This game also has ONLINE MULITPLAYER that 
 is phenominal to people that love online fights. SO if u dont own this game, BUY IT, this game 
 is a game that u must have in ur game rack!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fifteenhundred
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  People are saying there is no innovation in the FPS genre or other genres for that matter, but 
 I ask you, what more innovation can there be in a game categorized by the fact that you have a 
 FIRST PERSON view and are holding a weapon...
  
  The only thing or answer to that question is like the Call of Duty example, Call of Duty 2 is bigger 
 louder, better looking and includes some nifty features for more excitement. 
  
  So back to Half Life 2, the story is ok, albeit confusing, you've gone from fighting an invasion 
 of weird looking aliens, to fighting the Combine as the enemy in this game is known as, and they 
 seem to be human, no tales of what happened inbetween hl 1 and this game, nor do you find out. 
 
  
  But suffice to say the levels are good, the battles are good. And you will not regret buying it. 
 Single player is about 15-20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Arbiter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2
  Graphics:
  Not every game looks as good as HL2; actually, no game looks as good as Hl2. This is no doubt, 
 the best looking game ever made! Ran around 50-60fps for me (at least I think it ddid) . My mom 
 thought I was watching a DVD when she entered my room, it just looks so realistic. But lets start 
 off with the bad things; first of all, the loading is annoying. The game loads every 10-25 minutes 
 on my PC, and there about 2-3 minutes each. At first they are annoying, but you forgive it later 
 and just have fun playing. But, one thing you wont forget is when youre in the middle of the 
 action, and BAM! Another loading screen pops up, it just pisses you off. Ok, enough of the loading 
 lets get straight to the textures! Im sure the textures would be even more awesome at the high 
 settings, but they still look pretty good on my PC. Although from far away, they game looks much 
 better, and realistic as I mentioned before. Now to the characters! One thing you will notice right 
 away is the most unbelievable facial animation. It is just amazing, its the best facial animation 
 in any game made to date, and not only are the faces animated all well, they look terrific, I couldnt 
 believe my eyes, its just not suppose to be this good. How the hell did they pull it off? Anyway, 
 so we know the character models are all good, but now lets look at the environments... Well, there 
 just simply amazing as well. The environments are very big, detailed and interactive. The physics 
 also tie into the game play very well to make immersive environments, but ill get to that in the 
 game play section. So everything is good so far, but what about cinematics? Well, there are none. 
 Instead they are like..... its... uh... hard to explain, but there like in the game play.... the cinematics 
 are basically in the game play, so you never see a black screen and an animation comes up.... this 
 now brings me to another point, what I love about this game is that everything is connected to 
 each other, you dont see a black screen and bam your somewhere else, one place just takes you 
 to the next which adds to the realism.... So the graphics are great! More than great! Absolutely 
 immersive and real! Outstanding!
  Audio:
  Now for the audio.... lets just say its flawless, there is NOTHING wrong with the audio, nothing 
 bugged me at all. I even tried to find things wrong with it, but its just perfect! Lets get to 
 the music right away! Its mostly techno at the beginning, and it fits it. It comes up in the right 
 time and basically does what its supposed to do, add to the intensity, or set the tone of the 
 moment. Now for the sound effects, again, its amazing! Every single object in the game produces 
 sound, it sound like its real life counter part (and looks, and acts) I like all the cool engine 
 sounds to for the vehicles, they make em sound really awesome and cool to drive... but another thing 
 I loved was the awesome sound from the machine gun mounted on the hood of the buggy. Now for the 
 voice overs, they fit right in with the characters and the lip sync (mouth movement) The voice 
 overs are done very well, there very "pro" and clear (unlike some games I know*cough*odd world 
 stranger*cough*) So overall, the music, sound and voice overs are done extremely well and have 
 high production values.... so overall, the audio adds to the intensity, and to the immersivness 
 the graphics try to create!
  Gameplay:
  Finally, the best part! Let me start out by saying this is an unbelievable experience, it left 
 me speechless after I completed it. But Like before, lets start off with the flaws... as I mentioned 
 before, the loading sucks.... but other than that, the rest of the complaints are small. I found 
 the jumping to be a bit hard, you felt like you got stuck in a rock sometimes. There is also the 
 installation but I wont deduct any points from the score for that. But there is that piece of 
 **** steam; its nice to have every thing organized but steam just sucks. Its hard to explain, 
 but it just SUCKS! Another thing I was a little disappointed with was the length... I am on chapter 
 11/14 and Ive been playing for about 15 hours... so I am guessing it will take me about 20 hours 
 to beat... but for a game thats been in development for 5 or more years, I would expect it to be 
 longer. Again, those arent any major problems (except the loading) , but they are little tiny things 
 that keep it away from being a perfect game. So finally we got that out of the way.... Now lets 
 get to the reasons why this game is ****ing Amazing! First of all, I have never been immersed so 
 much in a game, you really feel like youre in this world.... The story flows nicely especially 
 because there are no cinematic to take you out of the experience. Basically, this is an FPS.... but 
 it is combined with strategy, physics, adventure, and puzzle elements like never before... But before 
 I get to the on foot stuff, I want to talk about the vehicles in this game... First of all, you 
 cant get in vehicles whenever you want... there's 2 chapters with vehicles, the first one you ride 
 a hover car/boat or whatever. This mission is very fun, intense and... Uh... cool. Usually, you stop 
 and get out of the vehicle because you have to solve a puzzle... in this case its usually opening 
 gates so you can go on or fixing up ramps so you can get past a barrier. I dont mind that too 
 much but some of them are kind of dumb, but fun so it dont matter... Then in a couple of chapters 
 after wards, you get in this buggy.... Well, I got to say this is probably the worst chapter in 
 the game (raven Holm is second) For me, the controls werent nearly as good as the hover car things 
 controls.... the turbo makes the car go way to fast and it gets out of control... good thing there's 
 a break or the whole chapter would like be crap.... overall, its similar to the hover car things 
 chapter, but its the buggy that ruins it.... but dont get me wrong, I like every part of the game, 
 but compared to the rest, it falls a bit short.... anyway, lets get to the on foot action! The shooting 
 most importantly is done incredibly well, and the way the die seems to always entertain you.... but 
 thats only due to the fact because the physics are unbelievable in this game, there so good that 
 it even spawned off a mod (Garry's MOD) that lets you play around with the physics..... anyway, 
 the physics play a huge role in the game.... but ill get back to it in a sec... so anyway, I thought 
 the AI in the game was also incredible but in the later on missions your stupid squad gets in your 
 way sometimes.... but the enemies are very intelligent and will do some things you wont expect... There 
 so good that I will use a robotic still turret for an example (because even that is smart) ... so 
 you through a grenade down to knock it down.... but if you pick it up with the gravity gun before 
 it completely shuts off it will shoot you while your carrying it....... so anyway, back to the remarkable 
 physics.... First of all, I love how every single thing in the game has physics. Sometime its too 
 real, and you may accidentally break like a box you were supposed to stack up to get to a place, 
 but that happens rarely, and who would be stupid enough to do that? Another thing that I like is 
 how even the puzzle use the physics in an interesting way. In one of them you have to find breaks 
 to put on the other side of a ramp so the other side can get up so,... you can run and jump off 
 from the higher end to get to the place your going... seems to be a lot of ramps in this game.... anyway, 
 overall, the single player experience is astounding. Its amazing how you can interact with everything, 
 and its also amazing how well its all put together. So after you are done with the outstanding 
 single player, there is multi-player! Now, I didnt get hl2 for the multi-player, but having it 
 didnt hurt one bit.... The game comes with HL2 death match and counter strike source. Both games 
 are awesome! Killing people with a computer never gets old, but CS is just too addictive. But its 
 still not over, you can of course make your own mod or play around with others.... It just doesnt 
 end, its unbelievable. But its all about the genre defying single player experience for me!
 
  Value:
  Why wouldnt you want it? You get Half-Life 2, Counter Strike Source, HL2 Death match and the mods! 
 And its only $55 for the bronze version? You have got to be kidding me! Anyone with a decent or 
 even better, a good PC has to buy it! Its too awesome! You will love this game; it has to be in 
 your collection! Just unbelievable!
  Overall:
  Well, what can I say? Its a piece of art..... a very good looking and playing piece of art!! This 
 is simply an awesome game that has set a new benchmark in video games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  HL2 is one of those rare gaming masterpieces , where you will want to play it again right when 
 you finish the last stages. It has nearly everything you'd want in a video game experience. Amazing 
 graphics+top of the notch audio, brilliant cinema, an amazing story, and plenty of memorable and 
 exciting moments. Though Half-life 2 is only a single player experience with no extras what so 
 ever (not including the multiplayer aspect) this game just might be one of the top 5 greatest games 
 in gaming history. In fact, it may be the most revolutionary and simply best fps of all time. Yes, 
 it's that brilliant.
  First off, you live through this game like no other game you've played before. By through, I mean 
 "experiencing the experience". As the player, you are connected to each character's emotions and 
 personality, as if they will hit a core in the center of your heart. Of course, this couldn't be 
 achieved without the terrific voice acting! Yet, you also stick with the game's thrilling and dark 
 action. Like many of you who have played the original Half Life, you see the game through "Gordon 
 Freeman's" eyes, literally. There are no cutscenes at all. But, doing so adds to Half-Life 2's 
 amazing sense of creativity and design/graphics. Both are absolutely flawless. The rooms and environments 
 feel so real and atmospheric, that sometimes.. it's very scary. Buildings have the perfect amount 
 of shadowing, and have the right amount of lighting. The depth couldn't be better. Fantastic reload 
 animations, great looking player models, and a different variety of freaky looking creatures/enemies. 
 But, what really win's over Half-Life 2's graphics , is it's new physics engine. There has never 
 been a game with more realistic moving, or "dying figures". Models will perfectly fall down to 
 their death in every way possible, even when walls or objects are in their way. 
  Though, Half-Life 2 wouldn't be so brilliant, if it didn't have such an intelligent and well written 
 story, that perfectly continues the story from Half-Life, making the experience even more thought 
 provoking than it's predecessor. The story can sometimes be funny, oddly touching, and extremely 
 deep. Unlike many dumbfounded games of our era, Half-Life 2
  takes itself very seriously, and it works. It's as if the game is like a full , cinematic motion 
 picture. Great screenplay, creative visionary, talented voice acting, beautiful cinematography, 
 and a breathtaking art design. 
  As far as value goes, Half-Life 2 is a very long game. Usually games have no value, because they 
 are simply so short (King Kong, even God of War) . But, if you play Half-Life 2 with the standard, 
 normal difficulty, this game will probably take you 10-20 hours to beat it (with no codes of course) . 
 The game also comes with an upgraded version of the best multiplayer games on the market- Counter 
 Strike. But now, it uses Half-life 2's graphics/physics engine, and completely remasters the graphics. 
 The game looks absolutely amazing.
  Though, my favorite part about this first person shooter are the amazing action sequences. There 
 are just so many of them! You will be in the middle of a city, when suddenly a gigantic, robot 
 tripod machine, destroys its path, killing everyone in it's way. You'll fight hundreds of 4 legged 
 spider-like creatures, in the middle of a desert/ocean shore, that pop out of the sand at any time ( 
 I seriously jumped out of my seat, nearly every time this happened haha) . You'll use your new gadget, 
 "The gravity gun" , to push objects in front of doors or windows, so the enemy A. I. (which is perfect) 
 to find a different way to get it. There's are also multiple times where you drive vehicles in 
 this game, which is new for half-life 2. I can say, it works greatly, and there actually isn't 
 too much of it, which is a good thing. But, when they do appear, it's usually when there's a wide, 
 or long open area that would take a long time to travel. 
  Half-Life 2 is revolutionary, a masterpiece, and tremendously fun. It brings something new to first 
 person shooters, and is probably the most "important game" , since the original Metal Gear Solid. 
 Like Gamespy said, "From its opening moments to its spectacular closing sequences, Half-Life 2 
 assaults you with a variety of gameplay styles and memorable moments, all executed with amazing 
 precision. Half-Life 2 is not only the best game of 2004, it may be the best game ever made. 
 No doubt the best shooter. It's an unforgettable experience from start, to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CROBO
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  it's the best game of 2005.
  
  better than doom3, quake 4, BF2, and f. e. a. r
  
  maybe not the graphics, but the gameplay is btter than the other games.
  
  and when you buy 
 the game, you also get the best online game ever. Counter strike Source.
  
  F. E. A. R is creepier than HL, but that don't makes it a better game.
  
  And now you can download 
 high resolution player skins for HL, that makes the fases of the characters very nice
  
  The gameplay is super, i never have seen a better one...
  
  it's a super gameeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:52 am PT
Review:  I could'nt imagine what hard work was put into this game. Whatever ammount, it definetley payed off.
 
  
  The gameplay is the sweetest part of the game. The awesome A. I., the sweet physics engine enabling 
 you to interact with everything you see, the awesome weapons [especially the grav gun] . It's so satisfying 
 to hurl an exsplosive barrel at a very unfortunate zombie. Driving the buggy is freaking awesome.
 
  
  The graphics are very impressive. And the thing is, you do'nt need a high-end PC to run it. I usually 
 would'nt dare to run 2004 games on my geforce4 mx but Half-Life 2 made my dream come true.
  
  The sound is pretty great. It's sometimes freaky to hear a zombie in the shadows utter a low 
 growl before leaping at you. The voiceovers are very well done.
  
  Half-Life 2 is oe of the greatest FP'S of all time. And that is saying a whole lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0thead2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Valves highly anticipated sequel to Half-Life finally came out last year. Half-Life 2 has almost 
 every aspect of a good single player game, with an added bonus of fantastic multiplayer add-ons. 
 Counter Strike: Source alone is worth the price of admission to this great experience. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is a visually impressive, and very scalable game but does have its flaws. The some 
 times predictable, and repetitive puzzles stand out at the end of the day. Also with no memorable 
 characters the player feels unattached, wondering just why he or she is trying to help the unfortunate 
 people in the Half-Life universe. Finally the heavily scripted game play leads the single player 
 experience to be good the first time through, but quickly becomes boring if played more then once. 
 
  
  Overall this game is a must have if you enjoyed the game play of Counter Strike, or Day of Defeat. 
 Be cautious though of buying the game in a retail environment though, as that version of Half-Life 
 2 does not come with Day of Defeat: Source. 
  
  If you are buying this game just for the single player experience I would suggest skipping this 
 one, in favor of other games with a better story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikerboy770
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is by far the greatest pc game to date. The level design is liniar, albeit incredibly 
 well at making you feel like you really are in this crazy, alien world. The graphics are incredible, 
 the characters act and look like real people, and the feeling of being watched by this massive, 
 alien force throught the game is incredible. The only possible complaint is that there isn't a 
 whole lot of a soundtrack, but it's still pretty good (despite the fact that it's not much of contender 
 against Halo 2's soundtrack) . If you dont have the system to run it, buy it for the xbox. Let's 
 face it, this game is quite possibly one of the greatest ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mideypack
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 has great sound, awsome graphics, addicting game play, and an exciting plot. The value 
 is through the roof because of the countless mods and additions. HL2 has the best "bots" I have 
 seen in any game that has been released. Amazing physics make it even better. You may ask why is 
 was $55.00, they wanted to annoy us.. lol.. it was worth it. The only thing missing is a Half-Life 
 3, but that will be fixed in a few months when they release Half-Life 2: Aftermath. Saying HL 2 
 is a bad game is like saying 2+2 = 98797. To make it simple, only a fool would give it anything 
 less than a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruestle2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  STUNNING!!!!! Awesome graphics, story, and physics engine.
  I would buy this game for $60...$40 is CHEAP.
  
  This is the second installment of Half Life 
 and is certainly better. With the gravity gun, Gordon can throw anything from saws to sever his 
 opponents in half to barrels of gas to just blow them to dust to (later in the game) the opponets 
 themselves. There is also a crossbow that shoots super heated rebar and acts like a sniper gun. 
 For a complete list of weapons visit http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/List_of_weapons_in_Half-Life_2
 
  
  From three types of zombie-like civilians with "head humpers" controlling them to 50 ft, 3-legged, 
 machines of destruction, the variety of enemies will keep players guessing.
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  A must buy for any fan of first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opacic_A
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  7 years in the making, a source code theft, huge amounts of hype (and fanboys I might add) , but 
 it turns out rather.. well.. underwhelming, maybe if it wasn't hyped up I would be giving it a rating 
 in the high 8's, but the large amount of hype drags it down.
  
  Ok.. first of all, the graphics, the whole reason I wanted to play it, the graphics looked beautiful. 
 I go ingame, set everything to high, only to notice that it comes off as well.. rather... bland.. The 
 character models on the human characters (the ones that you actually talk to, like Barney and Alyx) 
 are well animated and look very good. Though.. everything else just isn't that great. I might add 
 that Valve do not actually have a model of Gordon Freeman when you play Single Player, use the 
 3rd Person cheat, and it will just be an arm with whatever weapon you have in it.
  
  Then gameplay, I loved the beginning, it was a great introduction, I was having fun.. until the 
 hovercraft section, that's when everything just slowly dragged down.. The load times are atrocious 
 for even high end computers, and the amount of them is simply pathetic, not pleased.
  
  The sound is nothing short of very good, voice acting is rather good as well as weapon sounds. 
 I'd have really liked it if Valve just included cut scenes, instead of making you sit through 5 
 - 10 minute conversations between characters.
  I might also add the game is short.. really.. really.. short, I finished it within a day and a half, 
 thats less than 15 hours.
  
  In short, it's not worth the hype, if you're a Valve fanboy, or you just want HL-2 for CS Source, 
 then get it. I only got it for CSS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidsamta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 6:27 am PT
Review:  I got Half Life 2 last christmas and have been playing it constantly. In my opinion, it is one 
 of the best games ever made. Alot of the sequences are scripted, but the atmosphere and gameplay 
 make up for it. Each chapter is always diffrent, 1 minute your running away from combine, the next 
 your fighting off antlions! There is also a good variety of weapons, ranging from pistols, to machine 
 guns, to rocket launchers and gravity gun!!! The game isn't too hard, but its very fun. The best 
 thing about the game is the graphics! The textures are a bit drab, but the peoples faces are amazing 
 :O! They look like real people.!!
  Overall, this game is a AAA title and is worth every penny of your money. With counter strike source 
 in the package, this is all you ever wanted!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irknappers
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  The majority of those who played the first Half Life will agree that it was perhaps the most ground 
 breaking first person shooter of the late 90's. Realism, carnage and plot were combined with brilliant 
 effect, to create a game not only enjoyable, but engrossing and intriguing. There were no cut scenes, 
 so to say; everything was from our protagonist's perspective, from the chilling train-ride introduction 
 onwards. You WERE Gordon Freeman. Lovely touches included the boot camp style training session 
 (Full Metal Jacket anyone?) and numerous film references throughout. People, for once seemed real; 
 there was Barney, the security guard, and numerous Einsteins dotted throughout, musing and pondering 
 over their machines. Counterstrike was the perfect bonus (am I correct in saying it is the most 
 played online FPS ever?) , and add-on Opposing Force deepened everything one step further, providing 
 the player with control of the very soldiers hell bent on killing Gordon Freeman in the original. 
 Gone forever were the days of Doom; mindless destruction now had a purpose beyond kicking-the-ass 
 of some alien scum. (Admittedly kicking-the-ass of alien scum is still a big part!)
  
  It's not at all crucial to understand the plot of the first game: simply put it goes something 
 like this: unsuspecting research scientist creates porthole between worlds at secret army base; 
 Earth is flooded by zombie-like aliens intent on wiping out/enslaving humanity; research scientist 
 (our Gordon) takes up arms, puts on a hazard suit and slugs a few of the buggers; and the whole 
 time layer upon layer of government conspiracy is built up, and at the top of it all is a mysterious 
 stranger in a black suit with a briefcase. I really cannot remember the ending; suffice to say, 
 Gordon lives, but there is enough intrigue left to leave us salivating for more. You don't really 
 need to know this; it's nice for the hardcores who will talk for hours about it on MSN, but HL2 
 can stand nicely alone for any layman to enjoy.
  
  A hard act to follow? Well, yes. Bloody impossible actually. That's what we all thought, and although 
 we had faith in a successful second outing for Mr Freeman, secretly we were all afraid that it 
 all might come crashing down. What exactly can you do to improve on a game with just about every 
 accolade in the computing industry under its belt?
  
  You could start by introducing something that can rival the innovativeness of HL1, something to 
 make people once again sit up and take notice. That something is called real-life physics, and 
 it is, perhaps, the crowning glory of HL2. It does what it says on the tin: everything, from trash 
 bins to cars, from human remains to flammable barrels behaves - when nudged, blown up, pushed, 
 shot - as it would in real life. In effect, the engine has been built to bind every object in the 
 game to the basic rules of gravity, friction and buoyancy. Shoot a bin and it will fly up in the 
 air, spraying the contents exactly as in real life. A cardboard box, after some battering, will 
 flap apart. Fences splinter and hang; a fridge launched into the ocean will dip below, and then 
 bob to the surface; plant a rocket in the side of a car and it will skid and roll until friction 
 stops it. Remember the days when men had about a dozen "death patterns"? The guys in Perfect Dark 
 would clutch there throats and writhe to the ground, or stumble backwards before sinking down. 
 The bodies would always die flat, so if you killed a goon on the stairs, he'd be half lying in 
 midair. In HL2, real life physics stop this from happening; bodies pivot at all the places they 
 would in real life, and so when shot into a wall they will plop against it rather than lie through 
 it. Overall, real life physics make for two important main effects. Firstly, the game is made terrifyingly 
 realistic. I have walked around my local town convinced that at any point a head crab will jump 
 from the bushes! With everything behaving so naturally, you can have fun just popping of bullets 
 at things to see what will happen. Secondly, the physics make the game far more random. Explosions 
 will send things anywhere, so the same point in a game played through twice will yield different 
 outcomes. This makes the replay value so much better, and is a feast for the eyes. 
  
  Graphically we are talking jaw-dropping. City 17 is the living image of some Eastern European hellhole, 
 is exactly as the London of Orwell's 1984 would have looked. Everything is dirty and worn, buildings 
 crumbling (totally in some cases) , grass and trees decaying, the metal of a children's' playground 
 rusting and pealing. The textures that have been created here are not shiny and brazen (like Farcry 
 or Doom 3) , but dying and bitter; as with the game's physics, there is a real-life tangibility 
 to everything; you really are in this place. I've not seen water done so well before; reflections 
 are superb even on the lower graphic settings, and breathtaking on a more powerful machine. Lighting 
 is wonderful, the sun piercing and refracting in astonishing brightness, lamps and shades casting 
 shadows eerily and truthfully. You'll want to touch everything, to see how it behaves, to see how 
 it FEELS. Half Life 2's makers have been thoughtful enough to include a range of graphics settings; 
 you won't need a monster of a machine to experience it, but equally if you are lucky enough to 
 own one, visuals are superb. Character models are amazing; I've mentioned how they behave as in 
 real life - well they look great to! Remember Lara Croft's ham fists in the original Tomb Raiders? 
 Every finger in HL2 is rendered with finesse; look at your companions faces and you will see differences 
 in facial structure, colour, in ears, in noses. Most impressively, eyeballs move in their sockets, 
 and characters can smile or frown. All of this adds to the feeling of reality, immersing you in 
 the game.
  
  City 17 is a real dive. Storm troopers police the streets with batons and automatic weapons, and 
 when you start the game with nothing, not even the trusty crow bar, you certainly feel under threat. 
 The people are glum, all wearing the same blue boiler suits, all moping around, apparently out 
 of work, at the mercy of the "police". The atmosphere of oppression is sickening, the threat that 
 lurks in the air terrifying. Early on you find yourself desperately running from the law, moving 
 from apartment to apartment as they're raided and broken. It is a desperate frantic business, and 
 I guarantee you'll die on the harder settings without ever even finding a weapon. 
  
  We begin the game proper with a similar mechanical disaster to the last title: Gordon, attempting 
 to teleport to a rebel safe house, lands smack-bang in the middle of Overwatch territory. Hence 
 the style of the first half of the game is established: make your way to the position you're supposed 
 to be in, struggling against various alien and human assailants. Unfortunately, you've landed miles 
 off, and it's going to be one hell of a battle. There are so many gorgeous sets in this half, but 
 I'll mark out the important ones. There is the excitement of cruising through canals and rivers 
 on a grumbling hovercraft, chased by helicopter gun ships and rocket-toting armoured cars. There 
 is the thrill of fighting several close quarter fights in abandoned city locations, ducking for 
 cover beneath overturned trains, guards leaping, rolling and sneaking. Truly impressive is watching 
 the hulking trains lumber along the tracks, or the collapse of a gigantic factory chimney on the 
 riverside. Gameplay is fast and addictive; it seems that in every new situation you must be decisive 
 and daring. Combat is similar; there is no time to be faint hearted (something mirrored by the 
 upgraded Counterstrike: Source) , but you can be tactical, using the highly manovourable scenery 
 to your advantage. Any puzzles tend to base themselves around the games physics: use these blocks 
 to create a see-saw, or adjust that pulley to flip this ramp.
  
  Here I'll go into a minor quibble. On the easy setting, the game feels very linear. This is no 
 Deus Ex; there is usually only one way to get out of a situation, and I did feel a certain degree 
 of "tunnelment", stuck on one track, where any deviation is usually unnecessary and unsafe. Play 
 on hard and you'll instantly forget this; combat is so intense that you don't have time to care 
 about where you're going, only about how in God's name you can take down three Striders with 12 
 HP. It is a problem though; I like a game to progress in all aspects, and I felt that HL2 could 
 have given the user more control over different paths to take.
  
  My goodness are there an assortment of baddies to choice from. The famous headcrabs are back (now 
 in three flavours, normal, poisonous and fast) along with the slow moving zombies, who can now 
 throw objects with ferocious pace. There are some horrifically speedy aliens that clamber over 
 roofs, up drainpipes and smash through windows to leap upon you. Best of all are the Striders, 
 lumbering tripods (think War of the Worlds) that impale victims on their arms and carry a hugely 
 destructive weapon. All these critters make dreadful, ear-piercing heart-wrenching squeals, howls 
 and roars, and look about as gruesome as can be.
  
  The second half of HL2 is fantastic; you're now a part of the resistance, the good guys who are 
 fighting against alien domination. You patrol cities and prisons with up to four men/women in your 
 team, whom you can position to tactical advantage. Much of this section is spent with Alex, the 
 feisty side woman whom I GUARENTEE will be the main character in the inevitable add-on. The intensity 
 of urban combat is amazing; you'll spend many an hour pinned beneath wheelie bins under the ceaseless 
 fire of Striders. The best part comes in a parking lot, where an entire floor collapses, plunging 
 you into the most stressful combat you'll ever experience in a game.
  
  Weapons, weapons, weapons. The pistols are fun to use, but the Phera-pods, which call an army of 
 insect like allies to fight on your side, are even better. All the classics are here: shotgun, 
 semi automatic, rocket launcher, grenades. All look and sound great, and most have some form of 
 secondary fire. Then there's the gravity gun, the most useful and enjoyable item in the game. It 
 is used to manipulate practically any inorganic material you set eyes upon, and later on, once 
 upgraded, to use on the living as well.
  
  I'm frustrated with the end of this game. Without going into details, you are left craving for 
 the add-on, but without sufficient clarity to have fully satisfied battling across rivers, abandoned 
 mines, cities and alien mother ships to get there. In a way it's a bit of a sell-out, asking us 
 to buy the add-on without making the original reach a climax. What have we been fighting for? The 
 last area is a let down as well, compared to the rest of the game. And it won't spoil it for you 
 to mention that there is no big boss man waiting at the end. So mildly disappointing, in this respect, 
 but overall, an absolute ball. Do yourself a favour and play through it on normal or hard; it's 
 far more exciting, and the combat is all the better for it.
  
  Hell, when you've finished it, you can start on Counterstrike: Source. I won't go into details 
 here; suffice to say, most of my mates brought HL2 just to play on it. And it really is that good. 
 Anyway, a great, innovative game, (I cannot understate the power of the physics engine, it's just 
 incredible!) if a little lacking in gameplay and a finale. Bring on the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ehskate123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is probably one of the best games that i have ever played. The sound and the voice 
 acting are superb and actually sound as if the person was actually there talking to you. The gaphics 
 are awesome with the Half life 2 graphics engine with rag doll effects. There's nothing better 
 than shooting a combine and seeing him fly around from the impact of the bullt. Great stuff. The 
 downside is that if you don't have a good enough graphics card, the game will lag quite a bit. 
 You will also need at least DSL for the updates unless you are willing to wait a long time on 56 
 k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Prince
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  What can you say? Excellent. The Graphics engine for HL2 is sublime. Everything looks beautiful. 
 Or grim, dirty and hopeless.... well you get the picture.
  
  You have to give valve full credit for creating such a scalable engine. I know several people running 
 HL2 on wildy different rigs, from workstation to powerhouse, and they all get more than acceptable 
 framerates. At the top end, HL2 is a joy to behold. The locations are often breathtaking and the 
 NPCS are all well realised and a far cry from the Generic Scientist #3's seen in the Original
 
  
  Sound
  
  Funny. Ive heard a lot of complaints that the sounds havent been updated since HL1. So what? I 
 like it. The HEV sounds are the same, the guns, the crowbar 'PTANG!!!', everything (at least to 
 my ear) . I find it comforting in a strange way that slaughtering a headcrab with the crowbar sounds 
 the same throughout time. Besides, it wasnt like there was anything wrong with the sound in the 
 first place. And this time theres a lot more (occasionally ropey) voice talent. And pump up music.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Where to start? How about the beginning.......? From the moment you disembark the train it becomes 
 immediately obvious you can interfere with anything not nailed to the floor. Which initially is 
 a joy. But actually, soon becomes tiresome as you constantly have to move boxes and furniture out 
 the way to progress. Or the constant 'Physics' Puzzles......
  
  The physics engine is one of the major selling points of HL2 and, to a certain extent, it works 
 really well. But there seems to be a 'Lets do it because we can' element sometimes, especially 
 after you get the Gravity Gun. Some puzzles felt a little like over egging the pudding and prolonged 
 some of the more boring levels. Not that the levels were particularly dull, but a lot didnt have 
 the...... for want of a better phrase....'X-Factor' (sorry) of the original.
  
  I missed Black Mesa. I really did. HL1 was like Die Hard. You were trapped and had to escape, against 
 huge odds. It felt claustrophobic, urgent and was just a great, great concept. HL2, if you'll forgive 
 the analogy, is like DH3. You may have the run of the city, but its lost a bit of its magic, being 
 concentrated in one place. Ravenholm is no match for the Dam. And some of the sections (water hazard 
 for example) are just too long.
  
  That said, HL2 is hugely enjoyable. The story is excellent. Its thoughtful, considered progression 
 makes every plot revalation a joy to behold. Finding news clippings, talking to people, watching 
 TV, every twist feels well earned (if a little cryptic) .
  
  The set pieces are still here. Bombing down a road dodging bullets from a gunship, holding armies 
 at bay with sentry guns, they never stop. Valves steadfast insistance of never using cutscenes 
 is still the go here and does nothing but immerse you totally in Gordons character. You know what 
 he knows.
  
  Its a funny one, this game and I think it suffers, in some respects, from the malady that afflicted 
 Halo 2 and The Matrix Reloaded. Its clearly not the final part of the story and was made with a 
 sequel in mind. I think (my theory anyway) is that HL2 is setting up HL3s return to a black mesa 
 style environment.
  
  In summary, this game is amazing. It delivers a fantastically immersive world and plot, inventive 
 set pieces and a some of the best visuals yet seen in a game. Its lucky really as the installation 
 was the most hair pullingly frustrating experience I have ever had the misfortune to witness. and 
 steam continues to be one of the reasons I gave up playing CS. I have heard that after seeing the 
 success Valve had with HL2 other softco's are considering similar copyright protection methods. 
 My advice is; Dont. HL2 only got away with it because its so damn good people would have sat through 
 much worse to play it. And i can guarantee they wont for Game X. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homein_Sugo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i ever played since i was 5 years old and spend all my time playing 
 on my bro's spectrum.
  Like the others HL, this one improves in everything. The day i began to play this masterpiece, 
 i cannot stop playng the thill i finish the game, and then when i finish, i began the game again 
 in the most dificult rank . The grafics are awesome, and every detail is refined till the limit, 
 the gameplay is perfect and the audio chapter fitts great on every moment.
  I don't want to say anything, exept "GO BUY YOURSELF THIS GAME AND TRY IT YOURSELF" if you like 
 this game type, you will notice, every money spent on it, worths. And you can play the old but 
 great counterstrike, whit the grafics that only the grafic motor of HL2 can provide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxl
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 1:58 am PT
Review:  Great game, merely as good as the first one in half-life generation maybe better. Well built graphics 
 and more add-ons compared to predecessor. If you have played Half-Life 1 then you should know what 
 I'm talking about. This game is especially for those who wants to smash some crappy krippled monsters 
 and bad robot-like guys to the seventh level of hell, for those who wants to be frightened every 
 now and then and for those who are eager to build a tower with your neat gravity gun, not to mention 
 those who wants to check the ass of your good friend's daughter. This game is definitely a worth 
 of playing. Yet they should've make it more lasting, for me it was too short, don't know about 
 other people opinions, and I don't care about 'em. Thank you.
  
  And sry about my bad english. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakahmet
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  Valla hayatimda gordugum en iyi oyun. Bu oyun uzerine oyun tanimam. FPS'lerin krali. Grafiklerin 
 ustadi. Hic bir oyunda goremeyeceginiz grafiklere sahip. DOOM dakiler daha iyi dense de bence DOOM 
 Half-life yaninda sistem canavarindan ote bir yere gidemez. Zaten Half-life 2'nin cikmasiyla bir 
 cok odul almasi bunun bir kaniti. Hikayeye gelince ilk oyunun devami. Ben sonundan pek bir sey 
 anlamasamda sanirim o da oyunun devam oyunuyla giderilecek. Oyun bana cok kisa geldi. Ozellikle 
 Half-life'in uzunlugu goz onune geldiginde cok cok kisa kaliyor. Ama oynandigi sure icinde bir 
 oyunun insana verdigi en iyi hazi veriyor. Multiplayer kismi ise ayri bir zevk. Bir de oyuna eklenen 
 yepyeni ozellikler var. Tabii bunun basnda Gravity Gun geliyor. En sikici anlar bile 
 eglenceli hale getirebiliyor. Kesinlikle elden dusmemesi gereken bir silah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:11 am PT
Review:  This really is a very very good game. So far the only game that I think beats it in mission type 
 FPS is No one lives forever.
  The graphics for this game are gorgeous. The shadowing and especially the water and the reflection 
 it has are awsome! The character animations are awsome and realistic. The physics for this game 
 are the best ever! You have move almost anything, destroy and change the enviromment in anyway 
 possible.
  The sound effects are also really nice although I would have like a much better music. The dialogues 
 for the characters, are again, the best ever. The guns sound like they're suppose to aswell.
  What I didnt like about this game is the weapons. You have a very limited choice. The machine guns 
 are really the only ones you can trust. Rocket launcher is too big and the pistol is too small. 
 For the sci-fi game, it had the weapons in real life. I didnt like the monsters aswell. If i count 
 correctly, there were about 5-7 different type of enemies you could kill. The ending was a little 
 wierd, although it suggests there has to be a third installment in the near future.
  Over all this is a must play for any PC gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Half-Life, but when confronted with the opportunity to borrow this game from 
 my friend, I grabbed it and popped it into my pc. This is a game I will not forget. But Valve had 
 some bad way of arranging story, when you first play this, Valve did nothing to explain anything 
 that happened in Half-Life, leaving you confused THE ENTIRE GAME. Even till the end, it jsut gives 
 you more question marks than ever, this is very bad, because the whole game I have no clue to what, 
 where, when, how and why. There is a story in Half-Life 2 but without knowing the events of Half-Life, 
 it's impossible to digest possible clues to the story. It's jsut weird when people react to you 
 as some kind of savior, yet the game never explained what heroism you did to earn that respect. 
 Over the course of the game, you'll also notice Gman numorous times, thru binoculars, tvs, etc. 
 Again, I have no idea what's going on.
  
  Aside from that, I'll talk about the actual gameplay, quite a lot of weapons, the most innovative 
 would be the gravity gun. Nothing else is worth mentioning, other than there's no sniper. Each 
 gun sounds different and packs a punch thanks to the excellent sound in the game.
  
  Music changes and are appropriate to the surroudning and environment, spooky music in Ravenholm, 
 and music that gets your mojo going when you are in a frantic firefight.
  
  Must I talk about the graphics? It speaks for itself, it's truly awesome and still the best. All 
 monsters are graphically detailed and building are thoughtfully designed.
  
  Aside from the story, Valve's crappy squad member ruin the best of FPS. Being able to gun down 
 some of baddest baddies in the game with a couple of your resistant friends are fun, but placing 
 them in narrow corridors in apartment for a messy gunfight is a bad idea, and will often result 
 in death from your foes (and you) And during one early level when you're suppose to get thru a 
 sniper, your squad members are jsut standing still waiting to be shot, rather than taking cover, 
 unless you issue them a command, but these duck and cover should be pretty standard.
  
  Overall, this game will blow your mind, lots of levels, some with vehicles, but one thing in common 
 is they're pretty long and the multiplayer CS: Source is great graphically and doesn't change much. 
 After the game it left me thinking, confused, disappointed (the story) and hyped about the next 
 installment, the same feelings I had when I finished Halo 2, man these undescribable feeling don't 
 come everyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joseph889
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  First off I just wanted to say that I have not completed Half-Life 1. Wow, its going to be hard 
 to describe in words what comprises the wonderment of Half-Life2. I received this game as a gift 
 at Christmas time and completed it in some time in July; I took my time so I could soak in all 
 the little details this game had to offer. Gameplay: 9.8. I love this game, but I could not bring 
 myself to give it a perfect score, if it would have had a scene where you could use a mech/ walker/ 
 hazardous waste remover to defeat an enemy I would have wet myself. Graphics: 10. It doesnt get 
 much better then this. When you acutely stop and look at the reflection of everything in the water 
 a game has GREAT graphics. Overall I loved this game. A game like this will only come out once 
 every 5-10 years, and Valve earned every moment of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livetodie122
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:53 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Hands Down. And up. Its jsut crazy. Buy it and dont hesitate. Thats all I 
 have to say Its worth every penny. Seriously. 
  
  Graphics are kick ass and multiplayer is amazingly sick. 
  
  The graphics are exquisit, and 
 I would recomend this game to anyone, for the ages of -4 to 130000000. Ya. Its that great.
  
  Deathmatch is great fun, especially w/ the use of the infamous gravity gun, and hurling people 
 into the ground ith a hotel sign. 
  
  Buy it now. Thats all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tastylignutz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Savor this game people because you wont play another game this amazing for a long time. Half-Life 
 2 is a masterpeice and easily one of, if not the greatest, games of all time. From immersive fire 
 fights to dune buggy rampages this game gets it all right.
  The first noticable greatness of this game is its flat out incredible graphics. Realistic land 
 scapes, character models that are a little too real, and detail that you dont see in many shooters. 
 Basically its the best looking thing out there, nuff said. Then there's the abusive use of the 
 havok pysics in the game. Just about everything in the game can be interacted with, and can also 
 be used as a weapon with the help of the new gravity gun witch has made me fall in love with saw 
 blades.
  But of course the shooting is still the best you'll ever find carrying on the tradition of the 
 origanal. Fire fights are hugley intensive due to the intelligent enemy A. I. Enemys tend to hide 
 fore cover, and throw ALOT of grenades. The game also stays consistently challenging making the 
 player fight against not only soldiers, but organic airships, zombies, and fifty feet striders. 
 Like the last half-life, the action is broken up by puzzles which are not very difficult but do 
 take abit of thought although while half-life 1's puzzles consited of jumping and switch hitting, 
 half-life twos involves physics such as weight puzzles.
  
  just buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  Basically, the same as Half-Life with better physics and better graphics, and lots of irony in 
 the form of references to the original game.
  The original Half-Life had an impressive single player, and the opening to Half-Life 2 is equally 
 impressive. As you step off the train, you instantly know that you're in some kind of "Police State". 
 A hovering scanner comes up and takes your photograph. You have to walk through a series of run-down 
 corridors and metal gates, with litter blowing around athe station and scary looking masked police 
 guarding everything and shouting at you to keep in line. In a room nearby, a civilian is being 
 beaten up by the police.
  Outside the station, there is square where civilians wearing blue overalls walk around dejectedly. 
 All the streets leading from the square are cordoned off, and you can't enter them without a pass. 
 A large TV screen shows a politician giving a propaganda talk, and as you watch and listen, scanners 
 come and photograph you more several times. This opening really has a movie feel to it, and is 
 very well done. For me it was reminiscent of the novel "1984", and of the film"Brazil" or the 
 Mars arrival in "Total Recall". 
  You could, at this stage, be fooled in to thinking you're about to take part in an interactive 
 movie, where you will become part of a great adventure plot, but these special scenes are few and 
 far between, and the Half-Life 2 single player follows the same formula as its predecessor, which 
 means that it has a linear structure where the player has to find the way forward through a series 
 of chapters or levels, fighting baddies and solving practical puzzles along the way. There are 
 also a boat and a jeep that you can use to get through some of the chapters. The pace is intense, 
 the only respite being the occasional cut-scene, where you meet your comrades and who talk to you 
 and help you with new equipment. Unlike typical cut-scenes in games like Mafia or Operation Flashpoint, 
 here, the user still has some interactive control. The characters in these scenes are very well 
 modelled and superbly animated, to the extent that their personalities seem very real.
  The graphics are of exceptional quality. The water is realistic, simulating both reflective and 
 refractive properties very well. Refractive lighting effects appear elsewhere in the game to, in 
 the form of lenses and other special effects. The game has bump mapping throughout, and an extraordinary 
 attention to detailed textures, including some fantastic graffiti and posters .
  The sound is also exceptionally good, and creates a genuinely scary atmosphere. There are some 
 pretty neat sound effects also, for example the underwater explosion made by the magnetic mines 
 when you dispose of them in the sea, and the intercom systems used by the baddies.
  But apart from the graphics and sound, what makes Half-Life 2 so good? Why is it worthy of so much 
 acclaim, and so many awards? The answer is that it introduced and integrated what must be one of 
 the best physics simulations ever. Every object has mass, collision and gravity. If an object is 
 light enough, you can pick it up; if it's round, it rolls; if it's heavy, you have this anti-gravity 
 device that allows you to pick it up. With this gravity gun, you can pick up just about anything 
 up to table size, and throw it some distance. Usually you'll want to throw it at something or someone 
 else, and when you do, both the object you're throwing and the object you're throwing it at will 
 react in a true to life way. It may smash, or if you throw it at a person that person may end up 
 as a grease stain. Radiators and toilets are quite fun for this. In one scene in the single player, 
 there is a puzzle where you have to use a crane with a large magnet to lift your jeep from the 
 beach onto a quay. I had some fun dropping this magnet on a few bad guys to see them splat. 
  Apart from squashing your enemies, you can use the gravity gun to pile things up so you can climb 
 up them, or you can block entrances and stairwells by dumping loads of furniture in the way. The 
 possibilities are endless. That's the beauty of this physics simulation - it's completely autonomous, 
 meaning that it gives a new dimension of total freedom in game. This is especially fun in multi-player. 
 
  Half-Life 2 runs on the "Steam" platform, which is a tool to activate Half-Life 2 and authenticate 
 you as a user of it. Valve are using it for all their software now. You must create an account 
 with this program, and to activate Half-Life 2, you must log on to your account, get authenticated, 
 and wait for updates to automatically download and install. Only then may you begin to play the 
 game you bought, so it's 100% dependent on the Internet. However, the system does avoid having 
 to have DVD in the drive, and also allows to to avoid all the crazy protection systems used on 
 DVD and CD media these days.
  Half-Life 2 is great first person shooter, and the single player must be one of the best single 
 player games of all time. I'm not the world's biggest fan of first person shooters, and I don't 
 linear structured games as a rule, but this is really fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orlandoech
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  All I can say is I HATED Half-Life1 so I was a bit un easy about getting this game, but after all 
 the hyped up reviews I had to go and grab it.
  All I can say is, I'm so glad I did. If you haven't already got this game you better get it because 
 it sweet.
  
  The graphics are amazing, my favorite part is when I was shoot up at some people that were running 
 across a catwalk, which was made of wood, the catwalk began to fall apart then just collaspe. I 
 was like WOW! I also loved it when I was walking in a hall and shot a guy with the shotgun and 
 he flew into the wall and blood splattered across the whole wall, I was amazed!
  
  The sounds in the game are so spectacular its amazing. GO GET IT NOW!
  
  The gameplay is amazing
 
  
  The tilt, will last a long time
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _OKO_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the sequel to the multi-award winning Half Life; which follows a Black Mesa Member, 
 Gordon Freeman; after a terrible lab incident caused a rift which let out creature's of great horror; 
 creating zombies, super soldiers, this storyline combined with the incredible Gameplay was a delight 
 to play.
  
  And now Half Life 2 is superior to the original, incredible graphics, gameplay and a superbly written 
 storyline is superior everything Half Life 1 previously offered to videogamer's everywhere.
  
  You begin the game where you left in Half Life 1, your on a train; your destination City 17, 
 ruled over by the deadly and feared Combine Soldiers. The City is ruled by these soldiers, they 
 keep order over everyone in the City. You begin Gordon Freeman, well you're not going to be ruled 
 over, and soon you find yourself to be the enemy of the Combine, the renegade in the City; and 
 you must battle your way through the City. 
  
  If you haven't already played the game, I'll let you and as you can see many people recommend you 
 to do so. Half Life 2 is in the stores World Wide now; so if you havent already bought this game, 
 do so. 
  
  Josh. H 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The orignal Half-life was a great game. Not bad by any means, but not exceling in any way that 
 I could see. Sure it had a story (something the FPS genre completely lacked at the time) but compaired 
 to other types of games it lacked in a sad way. Being a game based on the Quake II engine. It looked 
 nice at the time. However Half-life 2 armed with it's own very new eengine has come to take the 
 FPS crown.
  
  Ok heres the good:
  
  Half-life 2 above all is just plain fun to play. It is just like the first game, a nice blend of 
 close range monsters, and long range guys with guns. It is not hyper fast, but gets the job done 
 with speed. The story has been greatly improved. It involves characters, actual characters! They 
 talk, joke, get angry, and follow you around shooting things. The game has the best physics engine 
 I have ever seen. Along with the Grav gun you can pick almost anything up and use it as a weapon. 
 And the graphics are nicely improved, their not as good as Doom 3, but damn good. CPU limitations 
 are not as bad as some would like you to believe.
  
  And heres the bad:
  
  The game is just too damn short. You will want more when it is finished. Even with an actual story. 
 It is still under powered compaired to most other games. The game doesn't require the ultimate 
 in hardware, however if you don't have a somewhat new graphics card, well the game will work, but 
 it will look like garbage. Also the game tends to favor ATI cards over Nvidia cards. Even playing 
 with the physics will get boring. The game tends to get tired and boring after playing through 
 just once.
  
  
  Dispite what some publications might tell you, a Geforce FX card in the 5900 range will work nicely 
 if left in default Direct X 8.1. Where as ATI's 9xxx cards will work alright in Direct X 9 mode. 
 The high end Geforce 6 series cards will play the game in DX 9 and lots of things turned on and 
 run fast while doing it. The ATI X8xx cards will run even better. The Geforce 7800 cards will seriously 
 kick the crap out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  If you're going to get any game in the world, it might as well be this one. Not only do you get 
 an unbeatable single and multiplayer experience, you're also introduced to an ever-expanding community 
 that will never shun you! Awesome mods too. GET THIS NOW OR I WILL BEAT IN YOUR FACE! GET GET GET 
 GET GET G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G 
 G G G G G G G G G GET THIS MANNNN N N N NN N NN N!!!!!!!
  -THECHEESE33 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synj
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  and over and over and over....... and over. this game has so much action and so much to do! there 
 isnt realy that much else to say. the graphics are great the effects and scenery are great ( even 
 tho your usualy in the gutters or sumin ) and the storyline is great!. the only bad thing and i 
 meen the only bad thing is the last boss battle cus its not realy the thing i was hoping for in 
 a first person shooter but you cant realy complain because of the action you have all the way through 
 the game is enough to buy the first half-life and see how that turns out. anyway just buy the game 
 and youl be happy for months and if your not send me a msg and tell me why cus there is no way 
 you cant be happy with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  I would say you must try this game if you havent played half life or half life 2
  or the others such as blue shift, day of defeat sorce, or conterstrike sorce
  you must its very 
 fun for about five months but if you play online with steam
  possably not for 4-5 years personaly i think they need a new conterstrike
  where you can fake 
 your dead and you can look like a rag doll on ground when you fake it ,rocket lanchers would be 
 a nice adition to you guys might have other opinons im just big fan well thank you for listening 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jotpot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best fps of all time, this game is a sequal to the original half life that 
 came out in 1998. half life 2 takes you once again on an adeventure with gordon freeman that is 
 action packed and just amazing. 
  you dont have to have a top-of-the line pc, so it still runs good on a decent computer. when you 
 buy the game it comes with a program called steam, which gives counter strike source which is the 
 most addicting game ive ever played in my lifetime, seriously. and as well half life 2 comes with 
 half life 2 deathmatch on steam which is a team against team shoot em up battle. so steam that 
 comes with half life 2 gives you more games, updates, news, and more. so, with that said, PICK 
 THIS ONE UP AT THE STORE, PLEASE!. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unopu2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:06 am PT
Review:  run 2004, and i was just returning home whit my new athlon xp 2600+ and a beautiful ge force fx 
 5700 ultra (the same i using today) , and i think "what im going to play in my new baby?", and it 
 seem someone hear my question (not rare, taking, that i was screaming at my rooftop) , the answer 
 i hear was
  "HALF LIFE 2"....
  my good frien guillermo, who its a rooting-good pc player!!!, tells me that sierra was just put 
 on the market the sequel to my beloved "half life" (remember... the bad sleep... the nightmares... 
 the wet pants.. yupe you remember) and i have no choice but to run to "the next store" and buy a 
 copy...
  first impresion:
  WOW!, i mean WOW, jesus the water...., the textures, the action, the gameplay, this game was for 
 me a big 10 ,,, i dont really care if was ther a bug o several bugs.. beacuse the game gives me 
 such satisfaction, the i seem tu be unabled to think for the rest of the week, about anything else 
 but..."HALF LIFE 2", (and dont get me started about the storyline... HERMOSO) .
  ok i think that whit this i make the impresion that i want, so i be leaving to play guild wars 
 (as usual) and study some...
  cheers!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir_Badshah
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is not just aFinish it" game. I have Completet it 9 times! 2 times at Easy, 2 times 
 on Normal, And 6 times on Hard ! I know i am Crazy! :D Hehe!
  
  The Gameplay is like Half - life one. So it's Easy and you learn it in no time.
  The Score to 
 the Graphic is of corse the highest (10) . And YOU know it! Look at the walls, buldings, cars, ground, 
 water... All things are shinying!
  And it's Beautyfull! Very Beautyfull !!! I'm Never get Boring at playing half-life2 and one of 
 the reasons is the Graphic!
  The Sound is olso good. Very good! But something tell me that it could being better. But i'm never 
 mind. It's a big Job to make a game like half-life2.
  Hey! I didn't say that the sound was terrible! Is just... If you hit a car with a crowbar, and 
 hit an oven. That it will being the same sound. But it's all right! :-)
  The Value ? Do you just ask me the Value !? Think! You have 3 seconds! :D
  
  This is my Favorite 
 game! You have to buy it! Not just because it's my favorite game, but because it's more than 94% 
 love that game!
  
  That's was all... See you later :-)
  
  (Info: Im from DK and im not so good at speling, sorry...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanScorpion77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  When I first began to play HL2 I had no experience with the HL series (never got around to buying 
 HL) . But when I first started playing I knew that this wasnt just an ordinary FPS. I instantly 
 fell into the environment, from throwing cans at the combine to just exploring the beautiful (but 
 yet haunting) City 17. The action starts off slower than most FPS, but the slower start allows 
 you to become familiar with the controls. As soon as you learn the controls you are thrown into 
 a struggle that last the entire game (with few breaks) .
  What drew me into the game was the story and the fact that you knew only what Freeman knew. This 
 limited info just kept hooking me to find out more and to keep fighting my way through. Parts of 
 the story had its problems but those were just small black marks on a smooth and well written story 
 line. 
  The graphics are absolutely gorgeous. From City 17 (which reminds me of a Cold War Eastern block 
 city) to Ravenholm to the Black Citadel the models are believable and make you feel as though you 
 were there. The physics on everything (not just some things like other games) adds to the believability 
 of the game. From when your dropping barrels to when you shoot a combine and they just drop in 
 their tracks.
  I could go on and on why I love this game but I dont have the time nor the words to describe it. 
 If you havent already purchased this game I would highly recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parry100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  I don't really know how to start since there's so much to mention....
  Firstly, the gameplay... Is spectacular, from the start your adrenalin is pumping. It's not terribly 
 hard or anything, which is probably one of the best things, nothing will take you to long and you 
 won't be forced to leave the game at an agonisingly hard part. 
  There's just such an amazing atmosphere during play- bits of the scenery get blown apart, blood 
 splatters on the walls etc. Even when there's no enemy to be seen you can have some fun, Picking 
 up and moving nearly anything is possible, this enables some really cool things to be done. In 
 the past I've built a pile of tires up then thrown a box and attempted to knock them all over, 
 very fun indeed. Obviously this sort of thing is also needed to jump walls etc. Bodies don't disapear 
 after death either, nor are they impossible to interact with, it's always fun to have a few more 
 hits with your trusty crowbar on a particulary annoying enemy. HL2 isn't even free roaming as such, 
 but it feels that way because of the amazing surroundings.
  Then we get to the graphic... They're amazing. Now I'm gonna be honest and say that my graphics 
 card is terrible (64mb) , the game somehow still looks great (another pro since you don't need a 
 mega system to play) Everythings pretty sharp and the light effects are great, so I'm going to 
 go out on a limb and say this game looks amazing on a good system. Personally i would play it even 
 if it had ps1 like graphics... who needs good graphics with such beautiful gameplay. If you play 
 in a creative way, HL2 won't get boring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5eriou5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is a uniqe game who takes us into a world we never could realized a world that will 
 blow our minds. half-life ia a game that have changed my looking into the new geme world and have 
 gaved me more hope to sierras future. So I will say that HL2 is absolutly perfect a game that I 
 never will stop playing and a game that only hl3 could be better then. As a nice finish on my review 
 I will gladly recomend hl2 to anyone you will love it and the grafics is absolutly great and the 
 graphics are also very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApocalypseBK
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Stunning visuals, amazing physics and graphics engine with beautifull water effects suplimented 
 by an immersive story with a 'real' feel.
  
  The game has constant changes of pace and by using amazing visuals created environments that make 
 you feel as though you are there, a part of the action.
  
  This is without doubt the best FPS ever. It has a good story, believable charecters and a totaly 
 immersive world. There is a revolutionary weapon in the gravity gun and the game has an epic feel 
 to it, its like a brilliant blockbuster movie, but its not hollywood, its got real class its got 
 substance, its more than amazing graphics. Theres action, firefights, driving, scary moments, theres 
 even squad war! sometimes you feel in good company, with freinds helping you out, and other times 
 you feel very alone, the important thing here is that Halflife 2 makes you feel. You become totaly 
 immersed in a breathtaking, masterpiece. It plays out like a great film and your the lead role. 
 Inspiring gaming from the people who re-wrote the genre.
  
  Im not going to waste your time or mine by writing any more, you go buy it cos im off to play it!
 
  
  This is truly a great game, worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  When I read a readers review I usually like to read what people didnt like about the game. Simply 
 because wasting time and money on a game for me is a far worse offence and easier to occur than 
 missing a really good one. And put to this that its so much more difficult to pick out the game 
 thats right for me, than it was a few years ago; with the massive amount of games on the marked 
 these days. (What would we do if there wherent any sites like gamespot? ;) I hope this intro explains 
 my approach to the game in this review.
  To keep it short, lets just sum up the things someone could not like about this game. And then 
 Ill sum up some positive things for compensation.
  
  Negative:
  1. Could be one thats your own fault, namely too high an expectation of the gameplay. Something 
 thats feeded by the first scenes of the game, which are terribly well done (like youre inside 
 a real futuristic world or a sci-fi movie) But eventualy all there is to it is shooting creatures 
 that appear in your visual field randomly and sometimes following a rigid script. The gameplay 
 feels old-school.
  2. The game doesnt really go deeper inside the story of the first half-life. You meet new friends 
 and the big badguy behind all of it is exposed, but that really doesnt come as the eye-opener 
 I was waiting for. Maybe because the storyline is like one that has been told so many times before. 
 Except for the hocuspocus at the end of the game
  3. The games level of realism slides down to a dubious height. The last chapters of the game are 
 filled with scenes where you can defead the enemy on its own territory by shooting highly exposed 
 energypilars and tossing balls of energy that come out of them at the guards. HmI lose all connection 
 with the story at that point.
  Positive:
  1. Best graphics Ive ever played in. Even better then Far-cry and Doom3 to my oppinion. You can 
 take screenshots that look more like art than a shooter. Take a look for example at the walls in 
 warehouses and the paint thats coming off; and wooden doors that are partially rotting away. This 
 is real-life graphics design.
  2. Very lively friendly characters. So lifelike I allmost had a response of talking back ones. 
 But this will only occur during some scripted scenes. During battle its a whole different story.
 
  I may be almost a year late, but Ill pop the question anyway.
  Is it worth playing? That depends, if you are someone who appreciates a game that takes the genre 
 of sci-fi story based single player fps seriously: this is one of the best. If you look for some 
 more realistic battle, look further.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life being the first ever FPS I played, got me addicted to the game, waiting years for the 
 sequel to arrive. When released, this game was Unbelievable. Half-Life 2 is yet another great game 
 as a sequel to the original Half-Life, and continues its legacy. The game visuals are awesome, 
 while the graphics are gorgeous and gameplay intense. The game graphics as well as mechanics are 
 rendered beautifully, and the physics of the game are unreal. The storyline yet keeps you interested, 
 while the action put you at the edge of your seat.
  
  In this sequel we continue playing as Gordon Freeman and learn what happened at the end of the 
 original Half-Life. Gordon Freeman has some new allies and enemies he must face to free what is 
 left of Human Resistance against the Combine. The game has a great plot is new weapons that you 
 will enjoy for hours. All that I can be said is it is one of the best FPS games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomgamer90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is one of the most impressive games that I have ever seen and continues to be through 
 its amazingly talented community of mod creators. Half Life 2 has some of the most realistic graphics 
 of any of the games to this date and is also extremely engaging and addictive. Believe me when 
 I say it's addicting, once I beat the game I couldn't believe it and found myself wanting more 
 and ended up beating it 3 more times. The graphics are amazing and make the stunning views and 
 environments of the game incredibly realistic and believable. Sorry to say but there is one flaw 
 to the graphics, up close objects have low-res textures but this is not great enough of a dissapointment 
 to bring Half Life 2's score down in any way. The gameplay is like any other FPS but is much more 
 interactive for the player and allows you to use objects against your enemies to your advantage 
 through weapons such as the gravity gun and your own antilion squad or rebel squad. The value is 
 incredible for Half Life 2 because of the mod community's work and all of the great addons such 
 as Half Life 2: Aftermath and Half Life 2: Lost Coast. I am very excited for these and for Day 
 of Defeat: Source. Half Life 2's sound effects are excellent but could be better in my opinion, 
 but what do I know about sound anyway? (lol) Half Life 2 is AWESOME and I recommend it to anyone 
 who wants a game filled with all of the elements of a great videogame and a huge variety of gameplay 
 ranging from driving a buggy to operating a crane to leading a horde of antilions. I salute you 
 Valve and Sierra for making one heck of a game worthy of an amazing review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  I can honestly rember looking on gamespot and saw that there was a Half life 2 comeing out soon 
 and i was thinking it was gunna make half life 1 a 1 hit wonder but then i looked at some screens 
 and saw that the graphics where magnificent. And when the game came out my dad sent baught a copy 
 and i couldn't wait to play on it.
  when i got a chance to play on it I could see how great the game was and i stayed on it for a night 
 and day and still finding the further i got the better it got. When my mate came over and had a 
 go he stayed on it for hours. After a while i relised i was getin loads of scary bits and some 
 on the thingshad been worked on and copied of Half Life and then i got realy stuck and as i tried 
 to find out where to go i got a opertunity to look at hoe well the graphics had been done. The 
 best part is almost without a doubt the buggy and how you never can tell what Gorden Freeman looks 
 like during game play. 
  Overall a brilient game, a masterpice and a must buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWalrusKing
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Easily my favorite game in years. Very narrowly ties the first game in the series. I mean this 
 is better than HL1 now, but if you judge the two when they had each come out they are pretty much 
 equal. The only real problems I have is that it ends in a cliff hanger. Not a bad thing, it just 
 makes waiting for the next edition so much harder. The physics add alot to the game, as do the 
 graphic improvments but I believe the biggest part of the games appeal is the quality of the story 
 and the great ways it is used and told. Oh and its a tad easy, I can hit an enemy with the pistol, 
 in the head from 30 or more feet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Although I never played Half-Life I thought I would try this game out because everyone was talking 
 about it. From all the previews that I saw I was very excited. I knew this game wasn't going to 
 let me down. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay was the same as any other first person shooter to me. The basic run and gun type. 
 But then again, this IS Half-Life here! So that made it different from all the rest. For some reason 
 I liked the game lay on HL2 better than any other first person shooter on the PC.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Obviously the graphics were amazing. Everything was highly detailed. Not much 
 more I can say but WOW!
  
  Story:
  
  Since I didn't play HL I didn't know what the story was about when I started HL2. But after playing 
 the game I thought the story was interesting. There are still some parts that I don't understand 
 but that's because I'm stupid. But it WAS great.
  
  What else can I say? Everything about this game fit. I say it's the best first person shooter out 
 there today. And the perfect game for anyone to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the best FPS ever made.
  
  It's simply superb. It combines every single good aspect of any FPS - vehicles, puzzles, you name 
 it - hones them down with unbelievable polish, and then innovates, but innovates so well that it's 
 hard to think how they could do it any better. Absolutely no part of this game is boring in any 
 manner, you will pretty much never get frustrated, it's simply an incredible ride from start to 
 finish.
  
  First off, the regular FPS part. Naturally, in Half-Life 2 you go around shooting people a lot. 
 HL2 has a wide array of powerful and varied guns, each useful in their own way, that can be used 
 in specific situations to great effect. The shotgun is devastating at close range, and also has 
 a useful secondary fire which shoots out two shells instead of one. The sub-machine gun is a useful, 
 fast-firing default gun, and doesn't feel useless but more of an all-purpose type of gun. The pulse 
 rifle doesn't have much ammo, but has a great disintegrating secondary fire as well as a powerful 
 automatic fire. Each gun can be used in any situation, but they'll best be served if you use them 
 intuitively in situations that make sense. Even the pistol can be a great weapon if used correctly. 
 It's tremendous fun playing each battle, desperately trying to use all your various resources to 
 the very greatest effect against multitudes of enemies, none of which are stupid.
  
  And then the gravity gun. Jason Ocampo and some other reviewers have said that HL2 doesn't innovate, 
 it simply combines aspects of other FPS games that had previously been done before but does them 
 all extremely well. Well, that is true, but HL2 also has the gravity gun, and I defy anyone who 
 claims this isn't one of the best innovations ever in the FPS genre so far. It's not that the physics 
 engine is new or anything - after all it's basically the physics from Max Payne 2 - but it's the 
 way they're used that makes this game special. In other games with physics, you may have fun knocking 
 over boxes by running into them or something, but it's really more of a fun thing than anything 
 to do with gaming. In this game, physics can be at the very core of the gameplay, and you can use 
 the grav gun alone all throughout the game if you like, although it isn't advisable. The grav gun 
 can be used to pull cover away from enemies and shoot it back at them, send sawblades spinning 
 toward zombies, or even to paint headcrabs white with paint cans lying around. The possibilities 
 are simply limitless in battle. The grav gun is also used to a large extent in puzzles, which are 
 fun but challenging interludes from the breathless pace of the action. In my opinion, I concur 
 with Sluggo from Gamespy when he says that the grav gun is worth the price of admission alone. 
 This is simply an unparalleled experience in gaming even nearly a year on, and you won't find it 
 anywhere else.
  
  But HL2 isn't just puzzles and action. There are squad sections when you control some comrades 
 against combine forces and the terrifying striders. There are prolonged vehicle sections when you 
 pilot a boat around or a buggy, desperately racing (and killing) Combine gunships as you go. There's 
 even a much-heralded and awesome section in which you command the antlions with some pheromones. 
 What's really remarkable about HL2 is how it pulls it all together, there is simply no weak part 
 to the game.
  
  The graphics are stunning still, arguably the best graphics made in 2004 (some claim Doom 3, and 
 I'm still undecided) , but even more impressive is how they use the technology with the landscapes, 
 whether it's the menacing Citadel that looms in the background or the dark, oppressive Ravenholm 
 which is bathed in shadows and flickering with fire. The art direction in all is extremely impressive, 
 fitting enough as it won the award for best art direction for 2004. As an added bonus, the graphics 
 scale superbly onto lower-end systems.
  
  The sound is terrific, with each gun claiming a unique sound, and the music, sparingly used, kicks 
 in to push you, making the game urgent whenever necessary. While you may regret the lack of a big 
 score a la Halo, HL2's menacing atmosphere simply wouldn't be the same. The focus isn't on huge 
 battles all the time with incredible scores, although you'll certainly get both.
  
  The game is endlessly replayable, and I constantly feel compelled to redo chapters just for the 
 fun of it despite having finished the game already.
  
  Now the multiplayer.
  
  I never played Counter-Strike back in the day, and so when I booted up the redone (and free with 
 HL2) CS: Source I was highly disappointed by the completely unfriendly atmosphere of all the experts 
 and the altogether unwelcoming aspect of the gameplay and community. This is supposed to be one 
 of the best multiplayer games ever created according to many people, but even they will admit that 
 it's hard to get into. For me, that's part of the criteria, but if you played the original CS and 
 loved it, you will love CS: Source as well, as it's basically the same game from what I'm told.
 
  
  Another free facet of HL2 is HL2: Deathmatch, a terrific multiplayer game with the grav gun and 
 of course regular guns. While Team Deathmatch is certainly a stronger game than Deathmatch for 
 HL2, they're both very fun, and there's really no multiplayer like it. Unfortunately, this is inexplicably 
 and always has been extremely underplayed, especially when compared to the ever popular CS: Source, 
 so it's really a shame that this has gone unnoticed. Also, there are other multiplayer games better 
 than HL2: DM, like Battlefield 2 or UT2004 for example, but not by much, and it's worth playing 
 just for the experience of using the grav gun against other people.
  
  HL2 is pretty much an unending thrill ride from start to finish. The only possible complaints you 
 could level would be about the loading times, which are a little too frequent, and while the guns 
 are all extremely well balanced there's not much new except for the crossbow and pulse rifle, and 
 even those are very similar to previous guns. Plus, other than the grav gun, it never innovates 
 tremendously other than its ability to cohesively meld aspects of several different types of games 
 all seamlessly into one FPS. However, as previously mentioned, the grav gun alone is simply incredible 
 - an experience not to be missed. I totally love HL2, and I have no doubt that any person mildly 
 interested in action games and especially FPS fans should NOT miss out on this if they haven't 
 finished it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetallicaKings
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 25, 2005 1:29 am PT
Review:  I popped in the game and waited for the percentage to hit 100%. With a feeling of 7 years worth 
 of waiting, I just couldnt wait to see the opening screen "Half Life 2". 
  The opening scenes of the game grabs you into the story so quickly, when the G-man starts you off 
 to the next stage in the series. You start out as Gordan Freeman, waking up inside a train to city 
 17. You dont know exactly why, but you will soon find out.
  From the very begining you can tell the graphics are just amazing. From the envirorment to the 
 npc's expresions, they just make you glance with your jaw dropped. 
  
  The sound of this game is so top notch, you think you were actually in the game. They dont make 
 the sound so overwhelming to where its all rock music, but they let you hear the enviroment and 
 the sound of a footstep. Although when the action comes, the music jumps in and gives you a feeling 
 of fiercness. The speaking of Alyx (one of the main characters that you will be able to play in 
 Aftermath) , to the speaking of a reguler NPC, you can tell valve took alot of time in this. 
  The gamplay and how they set up each scene to be is just so breathtaking, you can play it a 100 
 times and never get bored. 
  The ambiance and interaction they put in this game, makes you really connect to it, in an emotional 
 aspect. You get to know the charaters personality really well, as in fact they were your real friend. 
 
  Lastly the story is the best ive ever seen. Its so complex and everywhere but so intelligent. You 
 are grabbed deepy into this game by the story. Some people didnt like the ending because it asks 
 more questions then answered, but peronally, I couldnt of loved the ending more. You have to setup 
 what you think happened, and what will soon become.
  I highly recommend this game to any gamer. From a role player to a sports fan, this game would 
 become your favorite, it sure did with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLX_7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all I have just really bought this game for Counter-Strike Source which is actually 
 worth buying half-life 2 for. You will probably need a monster PC to play this on full quality 
 and if you do have a monster PC then I am very jealous of you. The graphics are so great that you 
 can spot facial things like moles and freckles on peoples face. unfortunately i dont have the greatest 
 PC but it runs it which is good enough for me. The lifespan of this game is unbelievable because 
 not only do you get half-life 2 you also get counter-strike source and half-life 2 deathmatch. 
 I think there are also a few packs that give you all the classic games like day of defeat, team 
 fortress and others. 
  
  YOU MUST BUY THIS GAME!!!!!! 
  
  I CANT EXPRESS THAT ENOUGH
  
  GO OUT TO YOUR LOCAL GAME STORE NOW!!! 
  
  IF THEY DON'T HAVE IT THEN SHOOT THE SHOPKEEPER!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDomDom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 11, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 had a lot to live up to if it was going to follow in the footsteps of its predecessor. 
 By MY GOD did it do a good job. This will surely go down as one of the greatest games ever.
  
  Gameplay: For me, the gameplay left nothing to be desired. It was without a doubt 100% spot 
 on. It cannot say its a difficult game because it isn't. On hard mode, the game becomes (for lack 
 of a better word) challenging, but hard... no. When learning this game be aware of the fact that 
 it's not going to take you very long at all; i surpose that means you'll be having more fun, faster.
 
  I would love to say how long this game took me to complete, but sadly i can't. I started playing 
 as soon as it came out, and finished it today (11/9/05) and for those of you who are aware of release 
 dates will know thats a long time. (I had a massive break while i saved up for a graphics card 
 to actually run the game)
  
  When it comes to the time ive spent playing the game in its counterstrikeand death match form, 
 the time is quite substantial, so be warned - you may get addicted.
  
  The graphics: well it all depends on what sort of system your run. For me I have your basic Pentium 
 4, 512 ram, and a 75 dollar graphics card - nothing special right. Even with that, the graphics 
 (and ideed the gameplay) was nice and smooth on 1024x768. Granted i turned virtually all settings 
 to low, but it still performed much to my likings.
  
  Value - Truly outstanding. I could leave it there, but i choose not to. The current price of this 
 
  game in the UK (which is where i live) is 20 ($35ish dollars i reckon) . This is one hell of a 
 game for what your paying which to be honest, is nothing more than hefty pocket change.
  
  Sound: Well, once again I personally cannot fault this game when it comes to the sound. With just 
 a basic onboard setup up for sound, i found it truly spectacular. My stero pumped out those wicked 
 sounds with great clarity. Once again... Spot on
  
  The only place wher i can fault this game is Steam. I am not a fan of steam. It seems to slow up 
 my pc beyond measurable sizes. However when you consider what it delivers, you learn that its worth 
 it. Half-life 2 combined with Counterstrike: Source (which in my opinion is the greatest online 
 game) and Garrys Mod ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  This is by no doupt the best shooter to ever be released on the PC. The graphics are bejond imagination. 
 The graphical engine is the best ever and gives you some extraordinary facial expresjons. And of 
 course, the fysical engine is amazing. You can tough everything in City 17, you can throw things 
 around, and they actually do damage and break to pieces. You can use you Gravity Gun (or Zero Point 
 Energy Gun if you prefer) to pick up and shoot objects. Half-Life 2 is unbelievable and the system 
 requirements aren't even that high!
  
  With such a perfect picture Half-Life 2 has got to have nice sounds, and it has! The sound effects 
 are many and sounds very realistic. The voice overs are perfect and together with the facial expretions 
 this looks close to real life! The music in the game is also perfect. There are so many different 
 kinds of music in this game. You have action music. spooky music and even calming music filled 
 with joy. 
  
  A reviewer said that only your first look at City 17 is worth the money itself! I must say that 
 this game features some of the best gaming moments ever, and seing City 17 for the first time was 
 awesome yeah, but there are other scenes in this game that will make you want to replay over and 
 over again cause this is close to gaming perfection! You fight helicopters from a boat armed with 
 a machine gun, you use a rocket launcher to plow up robot spiders and air units. This is action, 
 this is how it should be, this is Half-Life 2, the best FPS ever. If you like video games, if you 
 like action, if you like having fun, please... play Half-Life 2! 
  
  + 
  Everything except.... 
  
  - 
  It's short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Great thing's come to those who wait and what a wait it has been. The big question is was the wait 
 worth it? and the answer is a resounding yes. Half-Life 2 has a completely new gaming engine that 
 works really well and still keeps the feel of the original. You reprise your role of Gordan Freeman, 
 waking up on a train entering City 17 and soon discover the viscious aliens that featured in the 
 first game have taken over earth after breaking through portals. Some of the old enemies are back 
 and look better than ever, perhaps the most anticipated return is that of the Head Crab which looks 
 absolutely vile. Unfortunately for you the military have decided to work with these aliens and 
 you have been given the role of joining the resistance to help figure out how to destroy these 
 foul beasts.
  
  The source engine this game uses presents the game in glorious detail, this is nothing short of 
 a graphical masterpiece and easily offers the best graphics a game of this generation ever has. 
 The animations are realistic, water and lighting effects are near perfect and just about every 
 other effect you can name too. The downside to having the best graphics around for the average 
 gamer however is the cost of updating your PC to handle this monster, but if you already have the 
 hardware to run it then you're in for a treat. This game also has one of the best physics systems 
 around and just about every object has the correct mass and weight, understanding this concept 
 can help you along your way. The amount of interaction available in this game is quite impressive, 
 you can use or react with just about everything you see around you. Crates and boxes arent just 
 for getting into hard-to-reach places anymore, they're also useful for hurling at the the enemy 
 when using your gravity gun. Another new addition is the use of vehicles at several points within 
 the story and this has pleased quite a few fans, it seems to be a must for any great first-person 
 shooter at the moment.
  
  A downside to this game is the excessive load times, there is just so much to load that it has 
 to come at some price. Unless you have the best machine on the market you will be waiting an inordinate 
 amount of time between scenes. Some parts of the game have you walking back through load points 
 you just crossed and this can become very tedious. For a game that works so hard to immerse you 
 in it's world it's kind of ironic that the loading interrupts play quite considerably.
  
  The majority of weapons will have been seen before simply because most of them featured in the 
 original Half-Life, new weapons include the aforementioned gravity gun and a pulse rifle which 
 can cause considerable damage when used correctly.
  
  As in the original game, almost everything is scripted and listening to little hints your allies 
 give you can help you proceed to the next part of the game, so take note of what they're saying. 
 The A. I. is good at most times but it isn't exactly perfect, the enemy has 1 goal and that is killing 
 you which sometimes sees them running straight at you with no protrection. On the occasions were 
 they do take cover they will stay there a short perioid of time and then one again come running 
 out to be shot in the head. You could even throw a grenade at an enemy which they will see and 
 shout about but they won't even move and ultimately just get blown to bits for the fun of it. In 
 fact raising the difficulty setting doesnt seem to make them much smarter either, it just seems 
 to make your guns more powerful.
  
  Now for Counter-Strike, the free mod of the original Half-Life. The thing that perhaps became bigger 
 than the game itself has made a welcome return and been updated with the Source engine. The results 
 are absolutely spectacular, it is the game everyone has been waiting for years to get their hands 
 on and you won't be disappointed. The concept is the same, Terroists v Counter-Terroists which 
 is simple yet effective and makes for some very realistic battles. It may not offer anything new 
 to speak of but it doesn't need it because it is still and always will be one of the best online 
 gaming experiences around.
  
  The big headache that comes with this game however goes by the name of Steam, the first genuine 
 attempt at digital distribution by any major developer. This just doesn't work aswell as i hoped 
 it would and you feel in a sense that it's being forced upon you with no real choice of wether 
 you want it or not. If you purchase the retail version it takes on average two hours just to get 
 through the barriers and actually play the game, also if you don't have the internet you may aswell 
 not bother trying to play it at all because the whole game is locked until you register online 
 and get your game validated. This isn't just a one-time thing either, everytime you start your 
 computer up Steam will start up and check your copy is original and even download updates without 
 even asking wether you want hemor not. This should not be okay for a gaming company to do, what 
 if every developer decided to do this with their games?. Your computer would be constantly updating 
 and verifying your software, invading your privacy and effectively doing what it wants. Gameplay 
 - Brilliant gameplay that is only marred by silly little things that didn't even need to be included, 
 loading times are tedious but you will live.
  
  Graphics - The best graphics seen in a game, perfect 10 and i don't think nobody is going to argue.
 
  
  Sound - An impressive array of sounds that bring the game to life.
  
  Value - After playing through a somewhat linear and short campaign you're left with Counter-Strike: 
 Source, luckily this is enough to keep you going for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilles654327
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good story/gameplay video game. I like the stroy very much, I have to say this is 
 the only PC game that I really got into. Most game storys are *blah blah* fight, shoot, and kill 
 the bad guy. Well this game is alittle bit like that, but with great graphic and story. Yes, you 
 do shoot alot, but the new thing is the phiysics. You get a gravity gun alittle into the game witch 
 lets you pretty much pick-up/thrown anything your heart disires. Chopping off the heads of zobies 
 is very fun. More fun when you pick up a saw blad with your grav. gun and launch it at him at a 
 100MPH knocking his head off. The sorce engine is a great engine, but so far all of the other game 
 that use it look very bad. I think valve is keeping a secret the needs to be told to the game devolopers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_1990
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 2, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a icredible game with it's amazing graphics and it's gameplay.
  The gameplay is great here you can destroy almost everything, you can drive scooters on water and 
 beach buggys on land and you have a big chose of weapons in this game.
  The graphics are revolutionary if I say so, this has even better graphics the Doom 3.
  This game 
 is a little bit of a think-game you can't just play and shoot on everybody you have to think, maybe 
 there is a port to open but the stick to open it is kaputt, then what should I do, yes you should 
 think maybe there is another possibilitys.
  And that's what I like with this game it is not a easy game where you can go forward and just beat 
 it.
  
  If you play this game it will give you a oppurtunity to feel how it feels to be a prisoner.
  
 
  Thank's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so HL2 is plain awesome. Read on to find out!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Half-Life 2's gameplay REALLY makes the game great. Everything just feels right. The vehicle sequences 
 are better than people are saying, they just take some getting used to. The gravity gun is extremely 
 fun, the weapons are all very well done, and the physics can very well be used to your advantage. 
 Overall, the gameplay is very good.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  The graphics in HL2 are amazing. During the breif (sometimes) loading screens, the textures are 
 photo-realistic. Even during gameplay the game is amazing. Every little thing about HL2 is beautiful. 
 At times I couldn't beleive my eyes. Simply amazing. the graphics are much better than Doom 3.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  HL2's sound is very well done. The voices, weapons, zombie grunts, and all of the other little 
 sounds in the game are excellent. The music seems to randomly cut in and out, but when it is playing 
 it's OK.
  
  Value: 10/10
  HL2 is a pretty long game and the multiplayer is very good. HL2 deathmatch is very good, and HL2 
 includes, Counterstrike, which makes the game last a long time. If you include the upcoming expansion 
 pack, Half-Life 2: Aftermath, you will add some more time spent on HL2. I also wouldn't be suprised 
 if there was a Half-Life 3.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  HL2 is one of the best games ever (in my opinion) , and is much better than Doom 3 in almost every 
 way (in my opinion) . If you have a PC that can handle it, go PC. But if your PC can't, and you 
 have an Xbox, I'd wait until HL2 is released for Xbox. Granted, the Xbox version won't be quite 
 as good as the PC version, but I wouldn't upgade my PC just for HL2 if you have an Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDoom007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 27, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  Half Life was a very interesting game that surprised everyone six years ago. The formula they used 
 was rather simple: put the story on the game, not in the text (as almost the entire FPS before 
 then) , also, the game mixed perfectly alien and human enemies i (and allies for that matter) in 
 an almost "believable" storyline. This formula created a very immersive game that left everyone 
 who liked the action games with their jaws wide open.
  
  Valve decided to use a similar formula for the second part of Half Life. This time, Gordon Freeman 
 is summoned comes back to find out that the earth has been overridden by an oppressing alien government, 
 the life forms that he fought on Black Mesa and the tons of mechanical threats to the human race. 
 The storyline and the former mentioned elements make this game a great sequel for a legendary game.
 
  
  Even tough the last elements are maybe the greatest aspects of the game, speaking of Half Life 
 2 gameplay is not an easy task. First of all, the allies and enemies will react a lot with your 
 presence. Another great stuff about the game is the many kind of enemies that you will find, the 
 classic headcrabs are back, along with their variations (fast and toxic) this means that you will 
 fight the new kind of zombies that they will breed, instead of the marine forces that you fought 
 on the original game, you will with all the ranks of the combine troops (from the civil protection 
 to the elite forces) , among others. There are some places that you have to watch your step, otherwise 
 you would be surrounded by enemies in no time.
  
  The addition of vehicles is a welcome feature to the series. Your rides are just 2, a buggy and 
 an airboat. Both vehicles are fun to use, specially when you use it for smashing your enemies against 
 your "windshield". 
  
  Winning the G4 award for best graphics should be enough for you to know how good the graphics of 
 this game are, anyway, the best example of this game quality is the intro, you will see the "G-Man" 
 speaking to your character, you can see every an each detail of the face of the character, also, 
 the enemies and allies have an amazing detail level. The extreme detail also applies to the scenery, 
 the buildings, cars and mechs, mix that with the amazing lightning effects and you will have a 
 "Elite" quality visuals.
  
  Sound is not too far behind the graphics, after all, master graphics deserve equal quality sound 
 to make an ultimate environment. Fortunately, this aspect is as good as the gameplay. The music 
 (when you get to hear it) makes you feel like if you are part of an action movie (or horror, depending 
 the situation) . Voice acting is simply amazing, the voices fits well the characters, the voice 
 actors manage to give the characters the feeling that they need according the situation.
  
  Is not too usual to find single player games that manages to keep the gamer stick to their seats 
 for too long. This game on the other hand, is highly addictive, even though you are on a fix track 
 from the beginning to the end of the game, you can still explore the environments and search whatever 
 you want, wherever you want. Half Life 2 has a couple of multiplayer components, either "Half Life 
 2: Deathmatch" and "Counter Strike: Source", both modes are simply amazing but you might find yourself 
 playing Counter Strike for a longer time than the Deathmatch mode. The "Steam" engine might not 
 be appealing for many people as it can take a lot of time for loading a game or update (according 
 to your internet connection) but it will keep you updated with info about the Steam games. Valve 
 is working on a project named "The Lost Coast", this is also included with Half Life 2, as well 
 with a side scrolling game named "Codename: Gordon", which is simply hilarious.
  
  This is a very good game with a lot of amazing features, great gameplay and a lot of replay value. 
 With all this said, you get a lot for your money, is an amazing game that will please the fans 
 of the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Blu3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  When Half-life game out, it brong people with a shock of great action, and great cinematic gameplay 
 of tention and awarness of not diying from dangers that lied ahead, and Half-life, however, turned 
 out to be the best PC action game of the year, not only that, it also revolutionsed the genre forever. 
 Gamers have been waiting for a sequel for a long time, And now, Valve has introduced the sequel 
 to Half-life, the sequel to the best PC action game of the year.
  
  Now that Half-life2 is finaly out, You may be thinking that Half-life2 revolutionised the genre, 
 but actually, it doesn`t. But, half-life2 almost has the same expirence as the first, but actually, 
 it is differnt. The pacing is faster, the gameplay is more touched, and it makes the sequel alot 
 more better then the predecesor.
  
  In the first half-life, you play as Gordon Freeman, a Threretical physist who now works for the 
 mysterious G-man "a. k. a man in the blue suit", that teleports Gordon into a place called City17, 
 which is ruled by a man named Dr. Breen, the adminostrator you heard about in the first game. Soon, 
 after your arrival, you meet new and old charecters that help you defeat an un-answerd foe called 
 the combine. Now, Gordon gets his hazard suit ready to fight, not for survival, but for freedom 
 for the human race, and him self...
  
  A First-person shooter needs weapons, and half-life2 is no exception. Some weapons return like 
 the crowbar, shotgun, RPG (rocket propeld grenade) , crossbow, pistol, and the magnum. And there 
 are many other new weapons like the SMG, pulse rifel, bug bait, and the most important weapon: 
 The gravity gun.
  
  All thanks to the source engine, there are amazing physics in the game, and these physics can be 
 put to good use, all thanks to the gravity gun. The gravity gun can pick up objects (barrles, boxes, 
 ect.) and throw them at enemys or at walls. The gravity gun is also important for puzzels that 
 lie ahead. The gravity gun also can push objects or throw objects at a distance to scare or kill 
 enemies.
  
  The enemies, however, are very smart. They use cover, team tactics, and never go down without a 
 fight. Your allies too, are very smart, but they go down a bit more easily then the combine, and 
 you, but that doesn`t mean they`re all, that much, useless.
  
  The thing I hated about the game is that it is way to easy, the combine can go down in 3 headshots 
 with your pistol, while their shots keep missing you. Even at higher difficultes, the game is still 
 preaty easy, the combine`s AI doesn`t change at all. This is a very big disapointment. In the first 
 half-life, enemies did many amounts of damage, and your shots almost did nothing to some enemies.
 
  
  The source engine looks astonishing in everyway, there is great shadowing, amazing textures, realistic 
 physics, and faces from charecters look so real, that the charecters become lovable and memorable 
 in seconds. Also, the game sounds solid, the voice acting is top notch, and the sounds from the 
 enviroment lush you to explore the world of game`s engine. Still though, the gun sounds should`ve 
 been better, the guns don`t sound like they pack alot of punch, and when ever you bang your crowbar 
 on a stone wall, it sound like your knocking on a pillow instead of stone, which is preaty wierd 
 in everyway.
  
  Half-life2 also comes with the Counter-Strik Source, a remade version of the most popular online 
 game, which runs on the very beautiful source engine. Also, steam made Half-life2 Deathmatch, which 
 it`s name counts to what it is. If you get bored of the multiplayer of Half-life2, you can download 
 MODs, which the community has been working on for us to play.
  
  So, was Half-life2 worth the wait? Yes, it definatly was. If you have been waiting for the sequel 
 to Half-life for all these years, go get it now and see what the game was going to give you in 
 the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Undeniably fun, this game has perfect atmosphere to have you run around and kill and 
 playing with the gravity gun. It's a classic regular shooter. Best thing in the game is that you 
 can ride in a boat, ride in a dune buggy and most greatest and unique weapon is the gravity gun. 
 The gameplay is just too fun!
  
  Graphics - Remarkable, extreme, and unique. The atmosphere in the game is just too real.
  
 
  Sound - Explosions, sounds of bullets, sounds of battles roaring and awesome voice acting is just 
 too extreme and real.
  
  Value - The game does have a decent multiplayer but the game is so fun that you can't help playing 
 this game. It's remarkable!
  
  Tilt - Everything is too awesome. The storyline is great and the acting of the characters look 
 and act very real that it can be a little creepy. This game is best of shooters!
  
  This game is a must buy for the shooters and pc gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is VERY immersive and note this is for the HL2 only not CS SOURCE!
  The game is visualy amazing... Lets all get that down because to date it and Doom 3 are just pitted 
 against eachother for graphics and this game looks to take it as the character models look amazing 
 when they speak.
  While the Gameplay is amazing - i found some problems that really just bugged me from TIME to TIME... 
 example... Im trying to get through small taverns and crevices and these god damn boxes and s*it 
 get in the way and im tryin to pick em up and im bein shot - its a cluster !@$#.. But on the other 
 hand the guns handle extremely when and while the jumping is pretty loose and uncontrolled the 
 crouching makes for some nice realistic picking.
  The Sound is nice. The voice acting is AMAZING!! OMFG its so good. The music adds a nice touch 
 too but it doesnt come in "At that perfect time" like halo and halo 2's music ya know? The reason 
 why i gave sound a 9 is because i wasnt fond of the weapon sounds.. like when u reload the pistol 
 u can barely hear it - I want to hear every detail for everything in the sound since this game 
 has been in work for 6 years!
  The value gets an 8. While the game is good, if you exclude source (which I DO because they r completely 
 different games) it has little replay value. I can see going through it one and maybe once more 
 on hard but in order for it to get a 9 or 10 i want to go back to this game in a year and say w00t 
 - but i cant see myself doing that with all the competiition out there. It's hard to do yes but 
 it doesnt even have a multiplayer based off the HL2 singe playergame so...
  I tilt it a 9 simply because they did put in a lot of effort - u can tell by the amount of polish 
 - BUT it was a not a game worth 6 years. it looks like a 3 or 4 yr game. 
  Excellent game.. WHY THE !@$# arent u playing it!?
  
  Ive beaten the game and ending is... eh.... random... Its 
 hard to put ur thumb on
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateGame
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Well, Half Life 2. A game people waited 6 years to get their hands onto is probably best explained 
 as overwhelming. It immerses you well, with the menacing Combine overrunning City 17 and the strange 
 atmosphere that resembles a concentration camp. The first Half Life set the bar pretty high but 
 the sequel raises it even higher.
  
  The game takes place in the shoes of Gordon Freeman. A mysterious scientist that has seem to have 
 taken the place of a rebel leader. Although Gordon doesn't talk, conversations are well done and 
 fit perfectly. The pacing in the game works well and resembles a action movie that actually has 
 a decent story. The action in the game is great. Even though it does nothing revolutionary it is 
 fun and suspenseful since the health you have goes down pretty quickly. When you acquire the gravity 
 gun in the 5th chapter, the game is really jaw-dropping. It is amazing with the realistic physics 
 engine. Shooting propellers at zombies and blasting headcrabs with bolts of energy is fun and you 
 may find yourself doing this for hours as I did. I think that this gun alone makes the game worth 
 buying. The vehicular parts of the game are fast-paced and long enough to not be a nuisance. I 
 myself found the buggy level more fun since you could use a boost but the water boat level is also 
 pretty sweet. I think this game has legendary gameplay that shouldn't be missed by any FPS buffs. 
 10/10
  
  The graphics may not seem the smoothest when compared to RE4 or Doom 3 but they are very life-like 
 and immersive. The water seems like it is real water sitting in my screen screwing up all the little 
 pixels. And the characters seem like some people I know or knew. The building look like victims 
 of wear and tear and the blood looks close enough to the real thing. One thing is for sure, Valve 
 made sure that the Source engine would be put to the test with this game. 10/10
  
  The game is like music to your ears. The music is a bit on the techno side but it gives a bit of 
 a adrenaline boost when being chased by the enemy or when in a big fight scene. The sound effects 
 are great and seem good enough to satisfy just about anyway. However, the sounds do get glitchy 
 often. It is pretty annoying but isn't the worst thing in the world. 9/10
  
  This game is worth every penny you have earned. Just not 54.99 of it. Maybe 49.99. But not five 
 bucks more. It seems stupid but I guess it's because it has Counter-Strike with it. I think they 
 did this just to piss you off. But the fun of the game will probably make you forget what you payed 
 for the game. 9/10
  
  This game has a great tilt. Just about anyone who likes FPSes will like this game more than Halo 
 2. Anyone who even doesn't seem convinced to buy this game like I was some time ago should go buy 
 it anyway. It is worth it and has great replay value. Buy it and you'll like it. 10/10
  
  As you can see, the game is not perfect but it sure as hell close to it. It is full of memorable 
 moments and fun galore. I think you should buy it. Believe me it is worth just about every penny 
 you have. Just not the extra 4.99 you have to pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 23, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  Graphics: First off lets just say... you need a powerful PC to play this game how it was meant to 
 play and boy is it worth it no question... The graphics kill and are easily the best PC fps graphic 
 ever besides doom3 both are amazing in there own way... There really is no point to go on here character 
 modles to buildings to sky and ground to even water is perfect and is mind blowing for all gamers 
 playin it... yea sure down the line everything we see will only be better but while were here man 
 does it look good... perfect 10 is it not comon people...
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  OVER DONE ENUFF: Ehhh ok lets just say I didn't get the rush I did when playin halflife1 yea really 
 halflife1 was scary and was a rollercoaster of a ride this is so dum down. It's just running away 
 having people chase you everywere you go from start to finish its so over done stuff... example 
 they over did the boat and car driving parts by far I spend 3 hours driving a boat runing from 
 a chopper like comon it got so boring and thats not all the shooting parts are fun at some points 
 but then they get over done so much the only bad guys in this game are the blue guys that are cops 
 and then theses rare white guys that look like the blue guys this is so wrong like comon have some 
 more things to shoot at then all the great alien creaters return which was good to see and yea 
 I enjoyed shooting them cuz theres so many and you run cuz they just keep coming...
  
  REAL no doubt: Man no vids ok cuz your playin the vids I can see this in the future of FPS halo 
 has done this too its when your with other characters on screen and they talk and walk in front 
 you looking at you and they seem so real its fantastic and half-life2 does this better then any 
 game ever this is amazing part of the game by far its done so good hard to believe.
  
  The Feel: The Shooting in half-life2 I enjoyed alot maybe its the whole head shot thing but the 
 feel was so good It felt every gun I pick up I just own every person wipping it out and just shooting 
 them down other fps feel ruff here but this one had the perfect feel...
  
  Gravity Gun and Objects: Its amazing nothing else picking up objects destroying them ect man this 
 is great experience seeing things break and fall apart roll down hills amazing and this game does 
 it best rite now and really is a first to over do it making it so real PHYICS & RAG DOLL to the 
 MAX... :) I LIKE...
  
  Sound: hmm everything from the action music that jumps in to the voice acting is done good I really 
 don't have complaint here its really nicely done I don't see anything wrong. I love the health 
 machine noise same old half-life1 noise :) hey if it ain't broke why fix it...
  
  Value: Well with the whole good 12h of gameplay and somewhat good story better then others I guess 
 and with counterstrike source with these graphics its a must have no question for all pc fps gamers.
 
  
  NOTE: BEST HOURS OF THIS GAME ARE THE LAST 2hours... it like they saved all the good stuff for the 
 ending of the game your get the biggest rush ever in gaming history to tell you the truth... but 
 if you don't make it that far you might just die by the bordem and over done parts befor the great 
 ending... thats the worst part getting there but once you do I think it makes up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biker_86
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I wont go into the details of this game because gamespot hit it dead on. What im writing this for 
 is to give credit to the fact the game runs smooth on my rather old Pc. Although i have 512 RAM 
 and 2.2 GHZ im running a GeForce 2 which is ancient now, and on the lowest settings HL2 runs smooth, 
 and still looks gorgeous! Beware of steam though, it can be a real pain in the arse sometimes, 
 you want to play but have to wait 20 mins whilst it downloads a patch, and it takes ages to power 
 down the game afterwards! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-demon2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  If you want a great game at a fair price get Half-Life 2. Good variety of enemies and you get your 
 good ol' crowbar back. Headcrabs are back with 2 new friends and this time vortigaunt's are allies 
 with the humans. Cool weapon's like the grav gun, pulse rifle, RPG. A new disaster has happened 
 when the combine took over the world in the 7 year or 7 hour war ( i can't remember exactly which 
 one it was) . The combine made Dr. Breen the admin of earth plus Breen was the original admin of 
 Black mesa in the first Half-Life. Fun levels such as Ravenholm, Highway 17, Sandtraps, Water Hazard, 
 Nova Prospekt and anticitzen one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 18, 2005 6:39 am PT
Review:  For a long time I was nervously anticipating Half Life 2, and like a lot of other fans I was greatly 
 disappointed at the delays in getting it released. I was almost of the point of just expecting 
 it to be a let down. However, after all the waiting Half Life 2 turned out to be well worth the 
 wait. 
  
  The graphics in Half Life 2 are top notch. Everything looks bright but very clean. The sound is 
 just amazing. I love the constant background noise from the Combine's radios. However, the gameplay 
 is where Half Life 2 stands out. The action itself is very good and very intense at times, but 
 it keeps the game fun. But the physics puzzles I just loved. I enjoyed being able to manipulate 
 different elements to solve problems in the game. I think that is one of Half Life 2's greatest 
 innovations. I would love to see more game involve these same type of puzzles.
  
  The story is good, but a lot of questions are left unanswered. The game's biggest weakness are 
 the levels at the end. There just isn't enough to do, and it is kind of a let down. I also would've 
 liked to have seen more enemies. The original Half Life had a lot of different enemies, and I would've 
 like to have seen more of that.
  
  Overall, Half Life 2 is a great game. Valve just better not take six years to get the sequal released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogiants46
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 16, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best FPS I've ever played. Every part of this game is well made, from the graphics, 
 to the sound, to the gameplay, everything about this game works, and very well at that.
  
  Graphics: The is no graphical slouch. Every little detail of this world is well rendered and absolutely 
 amazing to look at, nothing in the PC or console market comes even close.
  
  Sound: The only part of the games sound that did not impress me would be some of the gun noises. 
 While a lot of them sound appropiately boomy, guns like like pistol fall a little flat and sound 
 way underpowered.
  
  Gameplay: Another amazing part of the game is the way it plays. Wether your picking up barrels 
 and tossing them at enemies with your gravity gun or blasting your way through City 17, every part 
 of the game feels just right. 
  
  As you can tell the game is quite amazing, the single-player package is just right, and the multi-player 
 is also quite fun. Along with the Half-Life 2 multi-player, the addition of Counter Strike Source, 
 increases it's value and will for years to come. Hopefully until Half-Life 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigothemanny
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 16, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  In Half-Life 2, Gordon Freeman appears again, mysteriously on the train to City 17, a backdrop 
 of seedy buildings and even seedier "civil protection", which is anything but. In the first few 
 minutes of the game, you're treated to views of all-too-obvious propaganda. From a view screen 
 high on the wall, Dr. Breen, the former administrator of Black Mesa, tells the people of City 17 
 that they are entering one of the best cities of the world in tones dripping with honey. In another 
 room, he speaks of how individualism is nothing to be proud of. Follow the pecking order, and you'll 
 get your just rewards.
  
  Freeman is sent spiraling on a journey fraught with peril and danger. From fending against the 
 CP with only a pistol, to wading through toxic waste, to speeding down a canal, smashing into support 
 beams and toppling enemy sharpshooting positions, Half-Life 2 makes everything you see plausible. 
 This is assisted by having no cut scenes, but just one long game. But it's not just reserved in 
 sci-fi action. In a level that seems to come out of nowhere, you traverse a town infected with 
 zombies, all out to destroy you. Some of the most nerve-wracking moments you may ever have while 
 playing a game will be experienced here.
  
  Throughout the game, I found myself saying "come on, come on". Not in protest, but in determination. 
 The game hooks you, plain and simple. While it may not be for everybody (you don't get your first 
 weapon for about 20 minutes, and when you do, it's a crowbar) , but some levels have at least one 
 element to interest a gamer. The driving levels are superb, and feature a depth not many games 
 have yet achieved while balancing shooting and driving.
  
  To touch briefly on it, yes, the Steam server may be a hassle for those with dial-up. I myself 
 have cable internet, so I wouldn't know.
  
  Overall, this game may just be the best game ever made. It's length, it's depth, it's graphic, 
 it's game play, all fit intricately into great entertainment built on a solid foundation of moral 
 values. No politics or racial issues abound in this game. It follows the simple yet timeless formula: 
 The good needs to stop the bad. And after seeing the last few levels, bad may have an entirely 
 new definition.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2005 3:35 am PT
Review:  The answer is simply; by doing everything that made the original superb and turing it up a notch. 
 The original Half Life released in 1998 set the standard for PC action games. HL2 takes on the 
 role of sequel with great pride. The story is easily as immersive as the first, action is as intense 
 as one could hope, even the puzzles are well put together. This is the culmination of solid gaming, 
 and imaginative innovation. The graphics are quite simply put, mind boggling. So good in fact, 
 that my PC stuttered while trying to keep up with them. Even when I barely could play the game 
 due to my slow system, I still could not stop playing. I even managed to match my previous record 
 of eight straight hours playing, set some ten years earlier. Half Life 2 sets the bar pretty high. 
 The game encourages teamwork and has a character driven story. Barney, the good natured security 
 guard form the original returns, as does the G-Man. All the while several new characters are introduced. 
 New to the series are a buggy, and the very fun jet ski. Also improved upon is the physics system 
 including the downright fabulous ragdoll effect. The gravity gun is incredible, and the crowbar 
 proudly returns to duty. My personal favorite weapon is the scoped crossbow, now with the ability 
 to literally nail people to walls (the best weapon ever, if you ask me) . At a time when recent 
 sequels to classics like Doom 3, have proved only average at best, Half-Life 2 is everything a 
 follow-up should be. HL2 is faithful to the groundbreaking original, while at the same time takes 
 a brave step forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2_mike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 one of the bests I own and have ever played. Its feel and story fit right into place 
 with he games impress AI and storyline and characters. The story is based around a scientist and 
 Black Mesa Research Surviver named Gordon Freeman. After the Black Mesa Incident the mysterious 
 G-Man left Freeman an offer; join us or die. Gordon of course join him, otherwise there would be 
 no Half-Life 2. Im not positive how long Gordon was under what I believed was a stasist, or how 
 long he disappeared for; anyway I think it was around ten years when the G-Man took out of stasist 
 to have him fight a new power that has taken over the world, The "Combine". The Combine are a empire 
 race of aliens that conquer planets with soldiers from other planet they have conquered before. 
 The soldiers you fight in the game were once Humans but were changed over the way they were in 
 place such as "The Citadel" and "Nova Prospeket". They are change so they are no longer human, 
 but become pets to the Combine control, have a program inplanted into their head to be under the 
 Combine control. They are usually captured humans that are changed into these soldiers.
  
  There are also Metro Cops where is "City 17" serucity force. They are different from the Combine 
 Soldiers they are citizens that are not as strong as a soldier and dont have an implants. They 
 aren't a sercurity as much as they Interrigation, execute, and search buildings in the the cities.
 
  
  Seen the worl was taken over by the Combine all cities were renamed as numbers. The story takes 
 place in City 17 where the Combine have a tall building called "The Citadel" in the middle of the 
 city where their leader on Earth is, "Dr. Breen". Throughout the game Dr. Breen hunts you with 
 hundreds of soldier and Metro Cops after you using everything at their suspents.
  
  As your progress through the game you encounter several, but few alien species. That was one thing 
 that makes this game form being perfect. Anyway the fights with these cretures are rather fast 
 oace and interesting. One of them eventually becomes an ally maing the gameplay more unique and 
 interesting.
  
  The weapons in the game are very realistic and seem weapon that could be present day future weaponry.
 
  
  One of the games high lights is the phyiscs involved in the game, introducting the gravity gun 
 using phyiscs to your advantage.
  
  This game is a must own for anyone who can run and buy. It is a must own for anyone interest minorly 
 in a FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAPD911
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Hmm..... didn't really like the first game but..........
  
  HL2 hase got over 15 chapters, with each chapter made up of several parts, so that you won't get 
 bored in a short time, like what happend with the original.
  many of our old enemies are back for a second look and with a lot of new enemies to As you work 
 your way through the 15 chapters, youll get mauled by poisonous headcrabs, shot at by city police, 
 surrounded by SWAT style troopers. the game has a fast gameplay but it gives you just enough time 
 to get used to the game and the world your in.
  aldo half-life 2 keeps good because of there unpredictable scary moments, unlike Doom 3. and you 
 even have some drivable vehicles, not much but just enough.
  
  Graphically, HL2 is a bit of a mixed. Certainly, theres plenty of work gone into making the game 
 look fantastic. Youve got your lens flares, particle effects, misting enz. The textures are great 
 too. Even close up, things look great.
  HL2 can handle vast outdoor scenes at a decent framerate. It does this at the cost of polygon counts 
 for the scenery. This makes the world of Half-Life 2 look a bit square.
  but that doesn't matter because the rest of the graphics just look AAA.
  
  As for the sound, 
 they build up a moment or slow the pace down for even more tension.
  the sound of the weapons and environment are one of the best things of the game.
  
  The value, 
 you get what you payed for only way for me how to put it.
  
  Half Life 2 is a masterpiece. For once were seeing a decent application of real world physics 
 modelling being applied to a game as an intrinsic part of the gameplay in a lot of games they put 
 Graphics on top but Valve didn't do that here they put the Gameplay on the top of there list.
 
  
  Score: 9/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: conkerreload
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2005 3:14 am PT
Review:  half-life is back and better than ever. the graphics are beautiful and the game play is fun. the 
 headcrads are back. this game is a not miss for the pc gamer. l love this game and you will love 
 this game too. don't rent the game buy the game. l am a big fan of this game. there are no reason 
 to pass up this game expect if you are under 17. thats the only reason not to get it. my friend 
 has the game and he loves the game and l love the game too. it is better than the first one but 
 has the same gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thornpaw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were incredible on this game. The color was amazing and eye-popping. The game play 
 makes it worth playing over and over again. The only thing that bothered me was the headcrabs and 
 who was sending them out into the city. I mean the Combine troops also killed the headcrabs and 
 zombies as did the resistance forces. That confused me a little. I like the vehicles as well though 
 it took me a while to get control of the buggy. I wish that I could have used some of the Combine's 
 vehicles. That would have been great. There have been several levels that I have played again and 
 again. Ravenholm is one of them. The thing is now that I know now where the zombies and headcrabs 
 are going to jump from, it is more unnerving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 8, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  Okay is it just me, or did Valve really screw-up here. Yep Valve screwed-up. How could anyone in 
 their right mind give this game an 8 or higher rating, it's beyond me. Let's start with the game-play 
 ( in a nutshell ) you go from point a to b and kill everything in between, wow very innovative. 
 Oh and on that same subject, well close to it, how is it that a book worm ( no offense to book 
 worms ) Gorden Freeman is able to ( with some very ordinary weapons ) kill almost all aliens on 
 the planet that overthrew earth in 7 hours. Dosen't make a lot of sense if you ask me. Also with 
 all the advanced technology that the aliens had why was it so hard for them to capture Freeman. 
 I mean your character is just an ordinary guy right. Also what's with these lame looking aliens, 
 they look like their wearing poor man storm trooper outfits, where are the aliens ( these combine 
 soldiers make lame and uninspiring bad guys ) . Now granted the graphics are really nice, and character 
 models are superbly detailed, but I was hoping for a much deeper storyline, and was hoping Gorden 
 would learn how to talk finally. But no, Valve decided it would be better to get rid of the cool 
 bad-ass aliens from the original and replace them with human WIMPS ( who look so scary in those 
 dorky outfits ) . Also why the heck does each level take so long to load. I have the recommended 
 specs but it takes between 1:30 to 2 minutes. Well all I can say is lame effort on Valves part, 
 oh and I can't forget about Counterstrike great graphics same game-play but that's not bad because 
 I loved the original. Hey that's what Valve shoulda done with Half Life 2. The problem is they 
 changed too much, Valve needed to just update the graphics and have the Zen aliens take-over earth, 
 now that woulda been a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTuff
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  To be completely honest I've never played the original Half Life. So my understanding on the storyline 
 is minimal, but I grasped it as I went through the game. 
  
  First thing that hits anyone when they play the game, is the brilliance of the graphics. They are 
 probably some of the most stunning, and realistic graphics in any game, and add such a depth and 
 bring in more reality then ever before.
  
  Then you factor in the sound, and it becomes even more itense, realistic and action packed. The 
 horrifying sound of the faster zombie, when you first view it in Ravenholm, truly rattled my cage. 
 It's a blood-curling scream, and one of many sounds that make the game so brilliant.
  
  The gameplay is like any other FPS, the storyline, the levels, the enemies and allies make this 
 one of the top games, and one that everybody with a good-enough PC should own.
  
  And for the multi-player side of things, you can't get any better than Counter Strike: Source. 
 A brilliant mod to top this game off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildemondruid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 after a 6 year wait full of controversy is released upon millions of gamers anticipating 
 it's wait with baited breath. And after all the storys, the code leak, valve vs vivendi, the delays 
 this is it was half life 2 worth the wait? HELL YEA
  
  Half life 2 begins with our hero george freeman waking from an apparent 10 year slumber with the 
 gman giving him a brief message about his new "job". What follows is 15-20 hours of non-stop heart 
 pounding fun. 
  
  Half life 2 isnt like a conventional shooter, instead of taking the hero from location to location, 
 half life 2 is simply one long road with gordan freeman this already helps immersing you into the 
 new world of city 17 a world or city rather taken over by a new force from the combine. Already 
 Half life 2 has brokent he mould by changing the way in which you see the world and the pacing 
 of this game
  
  The weapons, enemies and vehicles in half life 2 are simply amazing, and with half life's "SOURCE" 
 engine is able to use physics as part of the games puzzles all incredibly fun. The puzzles are 
 simply yet very fun at the same time and ive replayed the single player game multiple times and 
 it never seams to get boring. 
  
  half life 2 is a roller coaster ride of emotions and truly encapulates the participant into believing 
 this is a real world and you are making a difference. And is definetly replayable over and over 
 again. 
  
  the multiplayer has evolved into it's own game counter strike: source. with a huge visual and physical 
 upgrade has helped transition the cs players of old into this new gjonra of online gaming. However 
 if you think that being a cs 1.6 pro will help you think again, physics shadows and balance tweaks 
 mean you will have to think all over again about tactics and managing your weapons. 
  
  Yes half life 2 is the ultimate game..... almost. While all parts of half life 2 are indeed superb 
 theres barely any progression as far as story. You still dont know who the gman is or which side 
 he is really on, don't learn who the combine are or why they are there. And dont learn anything 
 more about freeman. While i believe the pacing of the story is perfect and i mean perfect (as in 
 every first person shooter should be designed like this) the story just doesnt move enough but 
 i dont bring the score down because of this because this would contradict the pacing which elevates 
 the score , damned if you do damned if you dont if they wanted to give more story the pace would 
 be lost and maybe the half life series would change too much for better or worse.
  
  The ending however is a cliffhanger (similair to halo 2) and will have people begging for the 3rd 
 installment now. an expansion pack is planned and ill be giving a review as soon as it's available. 
 half life 2 is a great gaming experiance and breathtaking in it's artistic living breathing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  In 1998 the best PC FPS game ever was released, it was Half-Life. In 2004 Half-Life 2 was released. 
 This game is at par with its predecessor but still can better.
  
  To start off the visuals in HL2 are some of the best I've seen. The environment detail as well 
 as character emotions are stunning. The souce engine is the best part. If you throw a grenade at 
 a combine guy get some popcorn because it will be a nice show. When the other characters talked 
 to you, Alyx the most, the emotions make it very real. You'll see the person go from happy to pissed 
 if something caused it. The gameplay, I'd say, is better in HL2 than in HL. My all-time favorite 
 gun is the gravity gun. I just love picking up a heavy object and hurl it into a combine troop 
 and watch them both fly back. Or taking a flamable barrel and throwing it into a mob of zombies. 
 You are capible of setting up traps for your enimies. Most of it is done in ravenholm as well as 
 toward the end of the game. Yes, you do get to fight with other people in the game, also mostly 
 toward the end.
  
  Despite all of this great stuff in HL2, some I may have missed, there are still some things I am 
 dissappointed about. The difficulty is relatively easy in the game, most of the time when I die 
 is mostly due to sliding off a cliff by accident. Maybe only once or twice I was killed by an enemy. 
 The story was dissappointing and confusing for me. You do meet some new characters and old ones 
 return. But I think people wanted to know most about was the G-Man, which you don't learn anything 
 except that he wants you to do another job for him. At first I didn't know why I was fighting anybody, 
 other than because I was being attacked. I guess the whole reason is becuase you were supposed 
 to go to Nova Prospect and you didn't, I don't know. One last thing I didn't like was you were 
 fighting combine more than aliens and stuff. What happened there?
  
  Overall, HL2 is a great game. You explore very interesting areas and fight new enemies as well 
 as old ones. We'll see what the next HL game brings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiZDestroyer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  
  Let me just get right down to the point, Half-Life 2 lives up to the hype, and exceeds past what 
 I expected. It was quite a long wait, waiting longer and longer with delay after delay, but it 
 finally has dawned upon us, and it is a revolutionary game that all new games within the FPS genre 
 should be rated against.
  
  Half-Life 2 honestly does not really bring anything new to the table. Half-Life 2 does not really 
 depart from the formula that made the original the huge success it was. But what Half-Life 2 does, 
 is do everything exceptionally right. From when you are given your trusty crowbar, to when you 
 hop into airboat and rush across the water, everything feels just how it should be. The difficulty 
 also never feels to tough, it always feels like there is something you have not tried to get past 
 a tricky area. The gameplay in a nutshell though, is basically what you can expect from an FPS, 
 you move from point A to point B and kill anything that wants to kill you. Although this feels 
 tired now, Half-Life 2 makes it feel exciting again, giving a breath of fresh air to this genre, 
 especially when you receive a truly innovative gun, the gravity gun.
  
  The gravity gun is a remarkable weapon that allows you to manipulate objects that are light enough 
 for it to pick up (which is usually most every object from barrels to radiators) . This weapon relies 
 heavily on the new physics engine that is in Half-Life 2, and it is amazing. Everything has its 
 own weight and feel, so all objects are unique. It seems like the gravity gun would take away from 
 gameplay, forcing you to learn different strategies to use with it, but it is all more of a second 
 thought. It is fantastic to be able to kill enemies with the surrounding, or even use objects to 
 stop bullets from incoming fire. The A. I. is also marvelous because they will use physics against 
 you too, you will encounter zombies at points in the game who would love nothing more then to hit 
 a barrel right in your face. Even though the gameplay is solid though, some points feel a little 
 to long, mainly the vehicle ones. It truly takes you away from the game at points, and at worst, 
 it can even bore you.
  
  Valve also coupled this game with its new Source engine, a remarkable engine that can really push 
 your computer giving you amazing graphics, or work for even a 6 year old system. When you find 
 yourself away from the action, you will finally get to notice the amazing textures and renders 
 of everything, and the fantastic art direction the game has. The sound puts you on the edge of 
 your seat, everything sounds how it should be, although sometimes you may expect more from some 
 of the more powerful guns later in the game.
  
  Overall, this is one hell of a game, and you owe it to yourself to buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hwint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2005 6:07 am PT
Review:  There are two things that make this game revolutionary: physics and photo-realism. Never has anyone 
 been able to traverse a world full of photo-realistic scenery that includes beautiful, apocalyptic 
 cities filled with gigantic, long legged aliens, insects, and other alien spacecraft. You are truly 
 immersed in a sci-fi movie. Aside from the eye-candy, the physics here have never been seen in 
 a computer game! Pick up objects wtih your gravity gun, smash them through windows at enemies and 
 other objects and visceral sense of destruction will astound you. Better, the physics engine is 
 put to wonderful use as you must figure out ways to manipulate the world around you in order to 
 progress through the game. This game puts Doom 3 to shame. Why did I not give this a perfect 10? 
 Because the story gives off the sense of being a "middle episode," which can be a good thing in 
 that we can expect more to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nyminiklop3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2005 5:09 am PT
Review:  I have this game all I can say its Amazing. If you like first person shooter -this game is yours 
 .It has awesome death matches Plus it includes CSS which is awesome as well (online too) . HL2 Deat 
 Match also good. Story mode is good except of the ending .Graphics are amazing -Plus with the steam 
 option (If you dont speak English you can play story mode on the other languages) -Its cool. And 
 its very easy to connect with the steam-you can create your own server or just join game. All I 
 can say this is the best 1st person shooter I have played to this date.-GO and buy it -lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  Graphics rock, sound is unbelievable, you'll feel you are playing in an actual action movie.
  Loading times are a little long but infrequent. You will obsess about this game, you'll stay up 
 at night trying to figure out what comes next. Your marriage will be stressed for the duration 
 of the game and you may loose your job, but it is worth it. Ending is controversial, but not so 
 much anymore since we know an add on pack is on the way. I have played it with an ATI x300 an NVDIA 
 5600, 5700LE and a 6600GT and it can run very nicely in all of the cards (best on the 6600GT of 
 course)
  Best-game-ever!! It will change your life. Stop reading this and go buy it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The followup to the best PC game of all time is probably one of the best games I've ever played. 
 I loved to watch the first one, but I was too frightened by the thought of playing it (I was only 
 like 9) , but now that I can handle it, I realize that it is one of the best (if not the best) series 
 on the PC. The game plays amazingly well, but some controls (like crouching) are hard to find out 
 at first. However, it's not like you can't go into settings, and just change the controls to your 
 preferrence. This game also adds vehicles that you must travel around in occasionally, but some 
 of the travel times can be pretty hefty. The enemies are smart, and your allies are smart, which 
 means that you don't have to rely on your skill the entire time. Unfortunately, there are frequent 
 checkpoints, and loading times, and the game is pretty short. The graphics on this installment 
 of the series are near perfect, with accurate mouth movements, amazing light and shadow detail, 
 and insane environments. Nothing on this game is overused, and each environment gets more and more 
 unpredictable. There are a few glitches in the game, but most are so insignificant that they get 
 overlooked easily. The special effects for this game are amazing. The explosions are huge, and 
 the bullets look so real. I love it because little details like seeing bullet shells fall on the 
 ground are included in this game. The graphics are just INSANE, but that may be just because I 
 have a good graphics card. On the average computer, I have no clue how it may look. My favorite 
 thing about this game is the overall sound to it. The voice acting is believeable, and really good 
 (that includes the gruesome alien sounds) . The sound effects are perfectly timed with their accompanying 
 special effects, and the music is just flat out amazing. All the tracks are custom made, but each 
 and every one gets me into the perfect mood for kicking some alien butt. Although there is some 
 large amounts of downtime between music, you can't expect to be hearing music the entire game. 
 Overall, this game is just a great gaming experience worth every penny. Although it may seem short, 
 this game packs the perfect punch for all you people who enjoy alien shoot-em-ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramshaw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 15, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is without a doubt the best game ever created in my opinion. It has everything and 
 makes concessions on nothing. The graphics are groundbreaking, the sound is immersive and the gameplay 
 is varied and most importantly jus plain fun. Also the story is top notch, I did not play the first 
 game but in Half Life 2 it doesn't matter because players are supposed to be disorientated when 
 they begin so returning players and new players are sucked into the game immediately.
  
  The Source engine that runs Half Life 2 is fantastic while many claim Doom 3 has the best graphics, 
 I think that the Source engine is much more realistic the Doom 3 engine is good and all but the 
 way everything comes together in the graphics in Half Life 2 is unprecedented. The art direction 
 is brilliant and gives the game a lot of atmosphere the scenery is disturbing and yet beautiful. 
 There are many times I have been distracted simply by the scenery around me looking so good. The 
 physics implementation in the game can't go unmentioned either VALVe have used physics in a way 
 that hasn't been done before. The gravity gun may seem gimmicky when you hear about it but it is 
 a very fun weapon to use and can be used in any situation almost.
  
  The sound in Half Life 2 when you play the game may not be something you pick up on when you play 
 the game but this is a good thing because you get lost in City 17 even more then you would if oyou 
 had an elaborate orchestra etc playingi in the background so the sound fulfills its purpose well. 
 The weapon sounds are also very well done with all weapons sounding as you would want/think them 
 to sound/.
  
  The story in Half Life is different to the way stories are usually told in games because the stroy 
 is not spelt out for. The characters will give you tid bits of info but not the long overblown 
 cutscenes we have seen in the past. Speaking of cutscenes Half Life 2 has no cutscenes at all. 
 All of the game is rendered in real time using source. This adds to the experience also as you 
 are not taken out of the game for a loading time while wating for cutscenes.
  
  Once you have completed Half Life 2 you can go online with the multiplayer component I have written 
 a review of that here http://gamespot. com/pc/action/counterstrikesource/reader_review. html? id=3987091.
 
  
  So is Half Life 2 the game people were expecting. Yes, definately. Valve have again redefined the 
 genre and set the bar for any other developers for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daJonesy7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 14, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Q. How do you follow up arguably the greatest PC game of all time? 
  
  A. With an equally excellent game that will entertain the faithful and embrace the newcomers.
 
  
  The above theory must have been well used by the people over at Valve, as they have done exactly 
 as it says with the latest installment to the Half-life franchise. 
  With mods and expansion packs aside, this is the second outing for the the crow-bar wielding scientist, 
 who aims to save the world from the horrible attrocities he is partly to blame for. 
  
  This game follows on from the first, were Physicist Gordon Freeman escaped the Black Mesa complex, 
 after an horrific scientific accident caused mayhem and for most death. This time around however, 
 the action takes place on the streets of the city, were a war is waged between The Rebels and The 
 Combine. Gordon has become well known and respected for his ability to escape from Black Mesa and 
 his competent skills in battle. He is seen as a leader of the Rebel cause and an ultimate weapon 
 for the fight against the enemy. 
  
  Not only has the story remained true to 1st game, so has the gameplay. Again you see the world 
 through Gordon's eyes and not only are alot of the sequences the same, but the line-up of weaponary 
 that is available is almost identicle aswell. 
  This isn'y a bad thing tho, as alot of these weapons are more than useful and you will never be 
 without an option for disposing of the enemy. Even when Gordon gets low on ammo he always has his 
 trusty crow-bar readily at hand. 
  One notable to addition to your arsenal is the Gravity Gun. This gun allows you to pick up objects 
 from the sorrounding enviroment and throw them at any opposition who is unfortunate enough to get 
 in your way. This allows for many comic moments whereby an unsuspecting soldier is sent flying 
 through the air after having a toilet shot at him from behind. The game developeres have not only 
 implemented this gamelplay through combat alone, as you will often need to use the capabilities 
 of the gun, to make your way through the enviroment. 
  
  The graphics of this game are nothing short of outstanding, therfore all of these well crafted 
 and stunning enviroments not only feel the part, but look the part aswell. The enemies are all 
 well animated, with smooth and realistic movement (you won't find any soldiers running around in 
 circles or getting stuck behind an object here) . The facial expressions on the characters are very 
 impressive and they actually look like they are mouthing the words you are hearing and not just 
 moving their lips up and down at random. The weapons and vehicles are equally impressive and well 
 implemented into the gameplay. 
  
  The vehicles themselves are often used in sections of the game and these moments offer some reprive 
 from the constant firefights you find yourself involved in. They help break up the action and offer 
 a different kind of gameplay experience. This keeps the action fresh and exciting without you ever 
 feeling like your simply going through the motions. 
  
  That is one of the major achievements of this game. It is contantly throwing suprises at you, which 
 not only keeps the action exciting but offers a movie like experience, whereby the game keeps moving 
 and never gives you a repetitive or mundane feeling. You won't be back tracking over old ground 
 in this game, as Gordon will go from one vastly different enviroment to the next. 
  
  The single player portion of this game will not disappoint and will please the many fans of the 
 original and help bring in a new audience aswell. 
  
  This excellence is further bouyed by the inclusion of Counter Strike: Source. An update to the 
 most played and most popular online game ever. Now it offers all the excitement and frantic action 
 of the original but it is now powered by the flexible Source engine. No doubt this game will be 
 as popular as the orginal Counter Strike and it will offer an untold amount of gameplay hours. 
 This is in fact a very important edition to the package as one of the few cons this game has, is 
 that the single player experience, whilst very unique and enjoyable, is on the short side and most 
 experienced gamers (or those who have completed the original) will have no problems flying through 
 the game in a couple of hours. 
  
  Further content has since been introduced by Valve and Half-life 2 deathmatch is now available 
 to download online. This is a simple deathmatch multiplayer experience, similar to any deathmatch 
 which has appeared in a FPS shooter before. This game can be alot of fun and can offer some light 
 relief for you and your friends..... and lets be honest, who wants to miss out on the oppurtunity 
 to shoot toilets at a friend!
  
  Whilst i may wish to throw and untold amount of superlatives at this game, i can't, as it isn't 
 perfect. There are a few gripes with this game, but fortunately these are only minor problems which 
 don't detract from the game too much. 
  As mentioned above, the single player experience can be short lived. Also the enemy AI, whilst 
 good compared to most games, seems to have taken a step back from the awesome AI which was such 
 a bonus for the original game. Most people will find themselves asking the question: "Why didn't 
 they just use the AI from the original?" Considering the original is more than a few years old 
 now, it's a testament to how great the AI in that game was. The final noteable problem i experienced 
 with the game, was the AI of my teammates. They would often get in my way and would sometimes run 
 head on into danger. 
  
  These small problems aside, this game is nothing short of perfect and i would recommend this to 
 anyone, be you a die hard fan of the original or not. 
  
  Altogether this an excellent follow-up to an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2005 11:19 pm PT
Review:  This game... wow. I had never played the first game when I bought this. My friend dragged me into 
 buying this game, and boy do I thank him for it. This is my all-time favorite game. All-time. This 
 game is immersive, exciting, engaging... it's unlike any other FPS I've ever played. The story is 
 definitely summer blockbuster caliber, and it's very engaging. The first intense moment I had with 
 this game was the part in the apartment building, where the whole building was being emptied out 
 of all people inside it, and people were yelling right at my face to get out, and this was no cut-scene, 
 this was live gameplay, and the visuals are stunning still. I go to the next hallway, only to be 
 yelled at some more about how I have to get out, and fast. I believed them, because soon after, 
 I approached the staircase, and i see these combines climbing up just below me, and they spotted 
 me, so I rush up the stairs in panic, and I go out on to the rooftops, only to have the combines 
 below shoot at me. I finally make it to the warehouse I'm supposed to be in, get my suit, and go 
 on through a conversation with the other two people in there. This game is thrilling, engaging, 
 and has storytelling elements you wouldn't believe until you saw it yourself. The part where you're 
 stuck in the teleporter device, being teleported into several different places because the machine 
 is going hay-wire... that was classic right there. You end up in the main villain's room, the deep 
 waters of the ocean about to be eaten by a sea creature, and even on another planet.
  
  The game has so many different places that you go to, it's like you're watching a story unfold, 
 and you pretty much are, but the difference is, you're playing it as well. On airboat being attacked 
 by a helicopter from above, in a destroyed city surrounded by zombies, on a road trip dodging ant 
 lions, in a prison facility attacked by hundreds of combines and turrets, it's all just so thrilling 
 to go through the single player campaign, it really is so fun you'll want to play it again.
  
  The graphics are top-notch for today's standards, and you won't be disappointed with them, 
 because if you are, I seriously doubt you're a gamer. I can't imagine how somebody could not be 
 impressed by anything in this game, there's just so much to be impressed BY. The story, the storyTELLING, 
 the graphics, the gameplay, the physics, all of it is just so impressive, I can't believe that 
 somewhere out there, there is a person who hates this game, and I really feel sorry for them. This 
 truly is a MASTERPIECE. A MASTERPIECE!
  
  Kudos to Valve for bringing us one of the best games we've ever seen for the PC.
  
  Also included 
 with this game is the Source engine version of Counter-Strike, which is an excellent update of 
 the classic multiplayer FPS we've all come to love so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriMGraVe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  The original Hl will allways be remembered by fps players. It was a challenging game with an amazing 
 storyline.
  Of course the announcement of a sequel left everyone with their jaws hanging.
  Unfortunately, the game has been hyped. Here are some reasons.
  
  1st of all, internet connection 
 is required to play Hl2, yeeeeah, I know this sounds bad but unfortunately its true because Hl2 
 is only playable via steam, and boy can this be annoying.
  Oh, by the way, even the instalation has bugs. Just to give you a taste of what happened to me 
 during the instalation, I chose to install only Hl2, not Cs: S..... eventually an error showed up, 
 so yeah, you have to install both to make it through.
  
  Anyways, after all the installation, steam files  I finally 
 made it to the game.
  
  Yeah, the graphics are decent... nothing as stunning as Far Cry but cool anyways, btw there are 
 lots and lots of loadings, sure they can be short... but are annoying.
  The physics engine is really good, just check out the gravity gun and the cool things that you 
 can do with it. 
  The storyline just sucks, If you were expecting some story like the 1st one, YOU ARE ABSOLUTELY 
 WRONG. Oh, I haven't made it to the end and won't since I found the game a little boring (specially 
 when you end doom3 and start this one) .
  
  Good buy if you like the huge mods variety that eventually will be released or the cs source. If 
 you just want to play hl2, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmatter47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a must have for anyone that has a system capable of running it. Its immersive single 
 player experience and addicting multiplayer mayhem will provide endless hours of gameplay fun. 
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Half-Life 2 is incredible. The single player campaign is amazingly immersive, 
 and the Source physics engine will have you believing that you are really in the game. The shooting 
 parts of the campaign are pretty enjoyable, though it is largely the same kind of gameplay that 
 was seen in Half-Life 1. That being said, the gravity gun provides entire new worlds to the gameplay, 
 and it is used for more than just picking up objects and hurling them at enemies. In one level, 
 you must use the gravity gun to lift a board that is barricading a doorway. In another portion 
 of the game, the gravity gun is use to pull the plug on an electric force field. 
  The multiplayer aspects of the game include Half-Life 2: Deathmatch, where the weapons of Half-Life 
 2s single player campaign are used in the multiplayer, including the gravity gun. Counter-Strike: 
 Source is also included, which is pretty much a graphical revamp of the original Counter-Strike. 
 Both are extremely fun to play, and can be played even with a 56k connection.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Half-Life 2 are beautiful, providing you have a high-end system to run 
 the game on. However, most people will find themselves turning down the graphical specs in order 
 to have a smoother gameplay experience, and so the graphics do not look as refined or as great. 
 The real story about Half-Life 2s graphics is the amazing physics engine. Everything acts as it 
 would in real life, and the character models look great. The ragdoll physics are particularly interesting, 
 especially with coupled with the gravity gun.
  
  Sound: The voice acting parts in Half-Life 2 are remarkable. Interactions with the main characters 
 of the game are very natural and convincing. Also, all the explosions, bullets, and guns sound 
 very realistic. However, the musical soundtrack in the game offsets the mood of the game more often 
 than it accentuates it. 
  
  Value: Although the single player campaign in Half-Life 2 is relatively short (about 10-15 hours) , 
 the multiplayer will last you a lifetime. Both Counter-Strike: Source and Deathmatch are highly 
 addictive and fun and I know you can play Counter-Strike: Source over a 56k connection. 
  
  Tilt: Half-Life 2 is a stupendous achievement in the FPS genre. I would tilt this to a perfect 
 10 if not for the ridiculous update downloads and the unforgiving steam system. Updating all the 
 games from the first version would take around 1,300 minutes over a 56k connection. Trust me, I 
 have 56k and it took weeks to get it all downloaded.
  
  All in all, you have to play this game. All of the pros greatly outweigh the cons, and you can 
 really get 3 games for 55 dollars. 9.5 out of 10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomarlyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is a technical masterpiece and state of the art piece of software, true 
 eye candy. The animation, special effects and physics engine are what makes this game worth getting, 
 but when it comes down to gameplay hl2 leaves you thinking they spent a little too much time on 
 fancy bells and whistles. The original is still one of the greatest games ever made in my opinion, 
 It was perfect in every sense of the word but what we have here is a bit of a mess, a sequel for 
 the sake of a sequel. Even though I finished hl1 I was still trying to think what the hell was 
 going on in this new story, exciting and cinematic though it is. 
  
  For a First Person Shooter I've never had so little to shoot at, there is very little variation 
 in the types of enemies you encounter and don't believe what you here about enemy A. I. during combat 
 - They have the intelligence and tactical awareness of organic vegetables even on hard difficulty. 
 Seriously they just stand completely still and take pot shots at you no matter what form of devastation 
 you're raining down upon them, they'll only look for cover when reloading which takes them a good 
 while as well. 
  Eventually you will be followed by squad mates, squad mates you'll eventually murder in cold blood 
 because all they're good for is bait and getting in your way every 5 seconds (The developers made 
 a big emphasis on the fact they can do things on their own and fight for themselves, hahahahaha! 
 ha!)
  
  Gameplay really seems to be on rails, very linear, very straight forward, very little variety or 
 choice in how you approach situations (hardcore FPS fans may be miffed by this) . A lot of the time 
 you'll be glad to finish some levels just to get them out of the way and find somewhere far more 
 interesting to battle through the adventure. The weapons at your disposal leave much to the imagination 
 and dont exactly deliver much of a punch either, but the gravity gun makes up for it in so many 
 wonderful ways (if you can pick up an object you can fire it, great fun) .
  
  I really wanted this to be a great game because I loved the original and followed the progress 
 of this very closely, but ultimately I feel a little let down by its lack of being a good FPS. 
 But Like I said the eye candy makes this title worth its weight in gold..... although if you never 
 play Half Life 2 in your entire life you wont have missed anything.
  
  A lot of people will love this for its style and delivery but any seasoned frag em up veteran will 
 feel very underwhelmed by its content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n-c
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is simply the best game to date hands down! It's a great continuation of the first 
 great Half-life game. The technology and graphics that valve has made in the game play and the 
 source engine is un freaking beleavable! Graphics in this game are far better than any other game. 
 The character design is great and the game physics are awesome. The storyline is full of suspense 
 and action with no equal! The mods for this game are the best and the tools and extra games that 
 steam can give you is irreplaceable! Everything is awesome about the Half-life 2 realm, although 
 the audio could have been just a little better. but still, this is one of my favorite games next 
 to halo2 and grand theft auto san andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud890
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, Half-life 2 is simply the best game to date (2004) hands down! It's a great continuation 
 of the first great Half-life game! The technology and graphics in the game play and the source 
 engine is great! Graphics in this game are far better than any other game as of 2004. The character 
 design is great and the game physics are very realistic. The storyline is full of suspense and 
 action! With over 1000 mods for this game, replay value is addictive and the tools and extra games 
 that steam can give you is irreplaceable! Everything is top-notch quality in the Half-life 2, so 
 if you don't have this game, go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SystemShock2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2005 2:51 am PT
Review:  So, this game is about Gordon Freeman, a former scientist. In the first game, you worked in the 
 Black Mesa Research Facility, and during a "normal" procedure, you push these alien crystals into 
 a teleportation ray thing the next thing you know, you have aliens coming in. Well, eventually 
 you *SPOILER* go to Xen.... the alien planet kill the final boss
  
  *you can start reading here*
  and get recruited by the G-man, a very mysterious character who 
 keeps an eye on you throughout both games. Then you go through a slow time warp as you figure out 
 later in half life 2. Now, onto the review of Half-Life 2.
  
  Ok, so it's around 10 years later and you appear in a place called City 17 and this is where the 
 game begins. You've slow time warped, so you're in the future, but you're just as you were when 
 the G-man recruited you. The first thing you'll probably notice is that this game is very pretty. 
 You've got beautiful effects, detailed environments and people that look real. In some cases, this 
 looks better than doom 3, because it has open environments. Soon, it will look even better after 
 Valve releases its HDR thingy with a new level. The graphics in this game are simply amazing, and 
 nothing out there right now can compete with it besides doom 3 and Far Cry pretty much. 
  
  Onto gameplay...... GAMEPLAY IS FUN. You shoot lots of things, solve easy puzzles, and kill things 
 with toilets..... yes, toilets. See, almost every object in the game has a mass and density. Everything 
 acts as in real life. If you shoot someone near a stair case, they'll roll down it, you you lob 
 a grenade, they'll go flying. The physics in this game are excellent. During the game, you will 
 get a gun that lets you pick up objects from the ground and shoot them at things. This weapon is 
 used in many puzzles and can be used as a shield when holding something, and as a weapon/grenade 
 launcher/sawblade shooter. The possiblities are endless, and killing stuff is a lot of fun. You'll 
 want to replay just to play the cool parts again and try to make things die in a funnier way
  
  The sound in Half-Life 2 is good..... that's all i really need to say.
  
  Value is really 
 good. First off, Counter Strike Source, which comes as one of the multiplayer for Half-Life 2 is 
 good, although i prefer 1.6. I used to like Source, so i know that it is good.... altough i hate 
 it now (don't ask because it takes a lot of explaining) . Also Half-Life 2 DM is a lot of fun. The 
 SP game has quite a bit of replay value too. With ways you can manipulate the physics, you can 
 make people die in low motion, you can make people fly 5 x as far when you get them with an rpg, 
 you can make it so when you shoot things, they come toward you instead of go away. There are may 
 things you'll miss on the first time through the game also. I've replayed it and I play different 
 maps just to see what i can do. Another plus for this game is that there are 100+ mods coming out 
 for it, so that will be good. Overall, great game, it's kinda hard not to like this game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Mootjes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this review simple: THIS GAME ROCKS!!!!!!!!
  This is quite simply one of the best games i've ever played. This game grabs you at the balls and 
 won't let them go untill you've completed it. the graphics are just amazing and the gameplay is 
 unbeatable. You just can't imagine how much fun it is to play this game untill you played it yourself. 
 One of the best thing about this game is the gravity gun (!) , just because it makes such great 
 use of the physichs engine. You can pick up everything there is and kill your enemies with it. 
 It's just a once in a lifetime experience to kill a combine soldier with a beer bottle. This game 
 is just a must have for every gamer, just for the graphics and the physhics. The settings are nice 
 and the vehicles are also great fun.
  
  So my conclusion:
  If you've got this game: You rock!!!
  If you haven't got this game: Either buy it at once or commit 
 suicide for not having it;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Did you loved Half-life and the big classic Counter-Strike?? Well if you did, like more than a 
 million of people, you will like Half-life 2 and Counter-Strike Source!
  
  The single player part of Half-Life 2 is really interesting. If you start it, you want to end it 
 and the story is really interesting as well of original. You wont understand the story if you havent 
 played half-life one but it can still be really intersting to try it.
  
  The graphic and animation are two of the other good point of this game. Everything is real and 
 look beautifull. Simply the best for the time. The price is high but at all, when you think about 
 it, for the amount of time you're gonna play H2 and CSS, this game worth 60$. The sound too keep 
 you in the game (more in H2 than in css) .
  
  This game worth the time you're gonna play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamdriam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  These days, almost every game seem to claim to be some kind of messiah, sent to revolutionise gaming 
 and lead us into a new era, just like Half-life did back in 1998.
  However, most of those game tend to be sloppy par or sub-par games with some new inventive feature 
 that doesn't really revolutionise at all and gets killed by their own hype.
  
  Half-life 2 was supposed to be released in may of 2003, but was due to several issues delayed and 
 was finally released november 16th 2004.
  When I played the game for the first time I was amazed.
  The disturbing voice and look of the 
 G-man really blew me away and from the moment I started bashing the skulls of the combine soldiers 
 to the final showdown I just couldn't keep my jaw from dropping constantly.
  The only real let-downs I experienced was that the game didn't answer any of the questions you 
 had been thinking about since Half-life and that it didn't last too long
  (I managed to finish the game in about ten hours) .
  After I had completed the game I started 
 playing Counter-strike source, which was included when I bought hl2.
  However, I've never really been a great fan of Counter-strike and despite the fact that it was 
 pretty good I never really got as addicted as I had gotten with the single player campaign.
  But a couple of weeks later, Valve finally released Half-life 2: Deathmatch which was a whole lot 
 better that CS: S.
  HL2DM then gave birth to mods such as Half-life 2: capture the flag and Plan of attack that are 
 incredibly much fun.
  In overall, Half-life 2 is a fantastic game.
  It looks good, it sounds good, it plays good (real-life physics kick ass!) and thanks to the fact 
 that new mods keep coming, it really has the potential to last forever.
  Half-life 2 doesn't really revolutionise much, but it will sure as hell keep us occupied until 
 someone does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerealkiller088
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is possibly the best game that I have ever played. It has everything going for it, 
 excellent graphics, great story, realistic physics, and an incredibly immerisive world. Half Life 
 2 continues right where the original Half Life left off (however you do not know how long it has 
 been since HL1) where you arrive at City 17 which is a facist society being controlled by the mysterious 
 Combine soldiers. You embark on a huge journey throughout the world eventually starting a revolution 
 and without too many spoliers, it ends on a huge cliffhanger (worse than Halo 2's in my opinion) 
 but hopefully the upcoming expansion Half Life 2: AfterMath will explain the story a little more. 
 The gameplay is excellent and it never gets boring, the gameplay ranges from the incredibly suspensful 
 "We Don't Go Into Ravenholm" section my personal favorite "Highway 17" section. All of these events 
 leads up to the amazing and unforgetable climax. Let's not forget about the physics, HL2's Source 
 engine allows everything in the world to be damaged in some way and the most realisic physics in 
 any game that I have ever played. One of my favorite things about the game however is that it can 
 run well on any system (a great move by Valve making sure that people won't hate the game because 
 it runs poorly on their system) . I ran Half Life 2 on my Compaq Presario S6500NX with 512 MB of 
 PC2700 DDR SDRAM, AMD Athlon XP 3000+ processor, and the 128MB Nvidia Geforce FX 5500. I ran the 
 game on this system with a mix of medium and low settings and it ran perfectly with the framerate 
 only dropping a little at the "revolution" events at the end. Half Life 2 was worth my $55 but 
 Valve also decided to throw in Counter Strike: Source and Half Life 2: Deathmatch free of charge. 
 HL2 DM is fun every now and again but CS: S is a whole different game that is always fun and addictive 
 to play. Overall, I can't reccomend Half Life 2 any more, go out and buy the game now. I was completly 
 hooked, playing the game 3-7 hours a day when I eventually beat it over the course of 5 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcris
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Not as revolutionary like its predecessor but still a great game. Unlike the first Half-Life with 
 changed the world of First Person Shooters forever, Half-Life 2 did not do that. But that doesnt 
 mean they did a bad job. The thing that I enjoy the most in games is the feeling that I am that 
 character and there is no doubt in my mind that the creators of Half-Life 2 delivered just that. 
 If you loved the first one youll definitely enjoy this one, if you arent a fan this will make 
 you a Half-Life fan. Amazing graphics great storyline and great voice acting on all the characters. 
 A MUST HAVE GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Gameplay is identical to the original
  + Great voice acting
  + In game sequence are quite amazing
  + Graphics are awesome
  + Sounds are top notch
  + Addictive 
 Counter-strike multiplayer game
  
  Cons:
  - Ending was a cliffhanger
  - Vehicles were ho hum
  - Not as challenging (pretty easy game to beat)
  
  Basically...
 
  
  Half-Life 2 is quite an amazing game. It's more like a cinematic experience rather than a game. 
 I enjoy all the sequences that were presented in the game. The action wasn't as breathtaking as 
 I thought it would be, but it was enough to get my heart pumping from time to time. Anyhow highly 
 recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinbobbabobot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game will eviscerate you. You will bleed to death from sheer awesome.
  
  That is to say, it is one of the best games to ever be released.
  Mind you this is coming from 
 a person who barely even played the original Half-life. I got about 20 minutes in before I quit- 
 but that was because the only copy I ever played belonged to a friend. 
  The Source engine is one of the best graphics engines out there. People's faces are life-like- 
 and that's not an exaggeration like you'd hear from the 90's when videogames first went 3D. I'm 
 talking about characters whose faces portray a soul, if you didn't know better. 
  Immersiveness is impressive. It really felt like a subjugated nation. It had the air of a Nazi 
 occupaton, only with a high-tech twist. 
  But replay value is kind of mingled. Since the whole thing is basically one big level, it is cool 
 but the entire experience is almost linear. You won't be driving around City 17, you'll be driving 
 on pathways. Lots of stuff is scripted- practically the only thing that isn't is yourself and the 
 AI. Which I might add is pretty good. 
  But replayability is still there. The whole story is worth re-experiencing, especially for the 
 dramatic moments. 
  Damn, can't wait for Half-Life 2 Aftermath and HL3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_kraminator
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the people who waited years for this games release, was there for every delay, and 
 played the beta of CS: S. I wanted this game, so bad. At the beginning of the game, it seems promising, 
 with the excellent voice-acting, scripted events, and action, but once you get to the water-boat 
 part, it seems to go down. Ravenholm is good, but during the end, you just want it to end. The 
 buggy level was okay, it was nice to be able to drive around the coast, but again it just was stretched 
 out. The game starts getting really good around Anti-Citizen one, cause you're in the actual City 
 17, and you have squad members with you which you can tell to move to certain points, and regroup. 
 The graphics in this game, are in one word, amazing. The water looks so realistic with reflections, 
 and sometimes the game looks like a photo. I run it at max details, 1024 x 768, with a 6600GT, 
 1024 MB PC2700, and a 2.8 P4, with absolutely no hitches and with FPS in the 70's and 80's. The 
 overall game is pretty short, first time through I beat it in about 14 hours, and the original 
 Half-Life I beat in 20, at least. But with so many mods, the fun will last a bit longer than other 
 games do. The AI in HL2 is also sub-par, I honestly think the first Half-Life has better AI, but 
 the HL2 AI is by no meens stupid, but they blindly rush you sometimes, but they do take cover and 
 use simple squad tactics. The game isn't all bad though, there are some intense shoot-outs, creepy 
 moments, and plenty of times you adrenaline starts rushing. The game also comes with Counter-Strike: 
 Source, which is Counter-Strike on the new source engine. I personally love it, but if you wanted 
 something more, you may be disappointed. All in all, HL2 is a good game, but it could have been 
 so much more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adz44
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Once again, you play the role of Gordon Freeman. Several years have passed since the 
 incident at Black Mesa. Gordon is sent to City 17, which is under the control of the Combine. The 
 Combine are very oppressive (it doesn't take long to figure that out) . Gordon was about to be transferred 
 to a prison called Nova Prospekt, but an old friend comes to the rescue. It is then that you get 
 some idea of what is going on. In short, the ultimate goal is to overthrow the rule of the Combine. 
 But, of course, you do a lot more before you have the chance to do that. 
  
  Like the first game, you see everything through Gordon's eyes. There are no cutscenes whatsoever. 
 The controls are pretty much the same, too. At the start, you have no weapons, but you soon get 
 the good old crowbar. As the game progresses, you'll pick up a variety of weapons such as a shotgun, 
 assault rifle and, my personal favourite, the zero-point gravity gun. I found that all the guns 
 were useful at some point. 
  
  The realistic physics are one of the key elements of the game. For example, there is a puzzle early 
 on that requires you to move a ramp so that you can jump over a wall (using a certain vehicle...) . 
 You are provided with barrels to solve it. I didn't know how to solve it straight away, but I kicked 
 myself afterwards. I won't say anymore about that. Anyway, there are similar bits where you have 
 to think logically. Some aren't all that obvious, but it's very rewarding when you figure it out. 
 
  
  Oh yeah, HL2: Deathmatch and Counter-Strike: Source come free with it. Both are great online games, 
 in my experience.
  
  Graphics: Very impressive. The characters in the game look very life-like. Even their eyes move 
 around. There aren't many games where you can see the characters have emotions, but Half-Life 2 
 manages to do this perfectly. The environments are very imaginitive. You can clearly see the difference 
 between City 17 and Ravenholm. The water even becomes transparent when you get closer to it. 
 
  
  Sound: The sound is great. It goes hand-in-hand with the graphics to create the atmosphere of the 
 game. From the filtered voices of the Combine to the sound of a Stalker patrolling the area, they 
 really have given a lot of attention to the sound. 
  
  Plus Points: No cutscenes, interesting storyline, realistic physics and immersive gameplay. 
 
  
  Downsides: You will require a Steam Account. This means that you must have an Internet connection. 
 If you do not have access to the 'Net, you must move your computer to a friend's house to activate 
 the game. Failing that, you will not be able to play it. That is the only (but big) downside of 
 Half-Life 2 that I can think of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is just the coolest thing in the world. The game is so immersive and in some parts very 
 scary as well. The new physics, the new graphics engine, its all good and then some.
  
  Well let's get down to business.
  
  Gameplay: First of all, this game has it all. The story 
 give the real feeling of a rebellion and you are right smack dab in the middle of it. The game 
 has some very great settings, realistic feeling that is just unbelievable. The vehicle missions 
 are very realistic as far as the driving engine is concerned, and the new weapons are just as cool, 
 my favorite weapon is the rebar crossbow. The game starts out slow and then in the middle and the 
 only gripe about the game play is the ending. The ending was rather crappy, although it does leave 
 it open to a 3rd installment and so forth. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are incredible, it almost looks like video capture it looks that good. The 
 walls look real, you can see individual brick work, the vehicles you drive look great, and the 
 weapons look very real. The monsters are very well done, as well as the soilders.
  
  Sound: its awesome, the guns are full and robust, the monsters are truly scary sounding, and the 
 sound effects of metal clashing and so forth are just so realistic, you don't want to play this 
 game in a dark room with surround sound.
  
  Value: The single player "campaign" isn't going to offer much in the replay value, however, the 
 multi-player is awesome and will keep you coming back. I have not played multi-player for half-life 
 2 yet. But i have been told its awesome, so i will add that piece in there for my review.
  
  Tilt: I am tilting it all the way up on this one, because once again valve does it again with 
 a sweet game, that will be completely immersive for at least 25 to 30 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BinaryCulture
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2005 7:50 am PT
Review:  To begin, the PC classic Half Life is the greatest first person shooter ever made. For any game 
 of any genre, such a widely accepted statement automatically propels a sequel into the highest 
 reaches of fan anticipation. Obviously, Valve has a lot riding on the most anticipated game of 
 all time, as the collectors edition box proclaims. Hype and speculation is one thing, and fan 
 boys/girls can gossip ad infinitum on all the Usenet groups available, but until a finished product 
 is on the market it means nothing. The finished version of Half Life 2 is finally here, over a 
 year behind schedule, and everyone needs to take notice.
  
  The 2004 holiday shopping season, at least in North America, cannot be understated. Since 1999, 
 the torrential downpour of triple A games between the months of October and December is unbelievable. 
 With all major home console game systems reaching their respective peaks this season, one would 
 assume that the PC market, already having lost a large segment of gamers due to the expenses related 
 to keeping an updated PC, would dip even lower. High profile console releases be damned, Half Life 
 2 lives up to every bit of the hype and then some. As part of the holy trinity of PC games, comprised 
 of its self, Doom III, and The Sims 2, Half Life 2 cannot be undersold. This is not only the greatest 
 first person shooter ever made, but one of the greatest games to date.
  
  The world of Gordon Freeman has changed significantly since gamers visit. The Black Mesa facility 
 is just a distant memory. After a rather vague job offer from a mysterious character simply known 
 as the G-Man at the end of Half Life, Gordon is set loose in a very different world. First of 
 all, a race called The Combine has pretty much enslaved humanity. City 17, where it all begins, 
 is one of the most claustrophobic settings in recent memory. The game begins much like its predecessor, 
 on a train. Valve did an amazing job creating what they call digital actors for the narratives 
 set up. Each non player character encountered has very subtle animations and facial expressions. 
 Every single one, even in the absence of lines, portrays a society on the brink.
  
  The Combine have City 17 under lockdown. Droids patrol the area, snapping pictures of errant citizens. 
 Combine soldiers are all around, making sure each and every person follows their imposed order. 
 The entire opening segment, right up until you acquire a weapon, has a very George Orwellian feeling 
 about it. Evidence of Big Brother is rife, but signs of resistance are made immediately apparent.
 
  
  Fans of the original will feel right at home with the controls. Absolutely nothing has changed 
 from the first game, which set the standard for first person keyboard controls. What has changed, 
 however, is the technology. The promise Valve made for its follow up was a world free of boundaries. 
 Each and every 3D object, they claimed, could be manipulated in some way. Their goal: to make the 
 players actions in real time appear to be scripted game events. Boy, did they ever succeed.
  
  After wandering the streets of City 17 for a while, Gordon is introduced to Alex, freedom fighter 
 and the daughter of one of the scientists from Black Mesa. Players will delight in seeing updated 
 models of random characters from Half Life, particularly the generic scientist and the security 
 guard Barney. While the setup is certainly engrossing, the real game does not begin until the player 
 has accrued the zero-point gravity gun.
  
  To say that the zero-point gun is a revolution is perhaps an understatement. Most of the weapons 
 from Half Life have returned in identical form with few additions, but the lack of new territory 
 is completely acceptable because of this one particular weapon. The zero-point gravity gun allows 
 players to pick up and jettison nearly every 3D object in the game world. Barrels, chairs, desks, 
 toilets, rocks, and just about everything else can be manipulated in some way. In fact, many of 
 the games puzzles require the player to make use of the surrounding objects in unorthodox ways. 
 For instance, one early brain twister has Gordon on an airboat, but blocked by a wall and a ramp 
 with its low point stuck in the wrong direction. Jumping off the boat, I surveyed the area, particularly 
 the opposing side of the ramp, looking for something to destroy in order to open the path before 
 me. Unsuccessful. However, once I figured out that not only does the Half Life 2 engine calculate 
 clipping, density, and weight for every object, it also calculated buoyancy. I grabbed a couple 
 barrels from the surrounding area and swam to the far end of the ramp, releasing them underneath. 
 Lo and behold, three barrels had enough buoyancy to prop up the far end, lower the opposite side, 
 and I was able to jump the dam in my airboat.
  
  Puzzles like this are characteristic of the entire game. It is not so much that the solutions are 
 of particular brilliance, but the fact that I really felt smart once I solved them that makes this 
 game so special. The problems presented, while clearly set up for one particular solution or another, 
 are more akin to real world obstacles than any other games to date.
  
  Despite the fact that Half Life 2 is over a year late, its graphics are simply phenomenal. Now, 
 with games that push the envelope on the PC side, technicalities are usually of great difficulty 
 to the less computer literate gamer. Thankfully, the men and women of Valve were kind enough to 
 hold this game until its done, and the installation and operation of Half Life 2 is nearly flawless. 
 The custom engine the development team put in place is one of the most adaptive ever released. 
 Even low end PCs purchased years ago can run this game, albeit at the sacrifice of much graphical 
 wizardry. However, PCs with recent graphics cards, particularly the ATI Radeon 9600 and above, 
 are more than capable of showcasing one of the most dazzling displays of interactive 3D technology. 
 Utilizing the most up to date Direct X 9 filters, brilliant animation, and one impressive lighting 
 model, Half Life 2 is truly a sight to behold, even if you are not playing. Despite the fact that 
 the technology is not as new, it looks even better than id Softwares Doom III.
  
  As though a 20 hour + single player campaign were not enough, out of the box Half Life 2 includes 
 Counterstrike Source. CS Source is essentially the biggest update the worlds most popular online 
 game has seen. Despite this, CS Source includes no additional maps, weapons, or modes. However, 
 as of press time, Valve has released Half Life 2 deathmatch on Steam, its online delivery service. 
 While not available out of the box, deathmatch for Half Life 2 does not cost any extra money. It 
 is also worth mentioning that it is every bit as addictive as Half Life deathmatch, complete with 
 some of the same maps and the addition of the zero-point gravity gun. Ever play long-range catch 
 with a bath tub?
  
  In a year end saturated with A-list games, Half Life 2 does the unthinkable: it stands head and 
 shoulders above every other title ever created for Human entertainment. Half Life 2 is not just 
 a sequel, but a paradigm shift in how professional and independent game developers think about 
 interactive entertainment. Complete with the Source Development Kit, mod communities are already 
 thriving, and there will be a steady flow of new content available to players, completely cost 
 free.
  
  This is the future. The next generation has begun. Half Life 2 is arguably the greatest game of 
 all time, and easily my pick for Game of the Year 2004. If you do not own a PC, fret not. Valve 
 has promised an Xbox (not Xbox 2) version soon, but the great shame will be missing out on all 
 the original content created by the fans. The revolution has begun. Do not get left behind.
  
  Half Life 2 is rated M (Mature  ages 17+) by the ESRB for animated violence, blood and gore.
 
  
  Stephen Webster is the Editor in Chief of Binary Culture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfarious
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2005 5:34 am PT
Review:  I don't play pc games more then a couple hours a week, so it takes me forever to finish them. I 
 doubt the gaming community needs another review seeing how there is over four hundred already, 
 but I thought I would make a couple of points.
  
  I found the physics just phenomenal. I'm sure this is a bell weather game in that respect. Far 
 Cry had sporadic physics, but it was not fully implemented like HL2. 
  
  The face mapping was also a great improvement over any other game i've played. The eyes following 
 you is fantastic.
  
  The sound is also incredible and fully surrounds you. I also love the echos in places like highway 
 tunnels and large rooms. The larger explosions had complex secondary sounds like metal banging 
 and glass breaking. I also like the throaty sound of the larger blasts like when the gun ships 
 went down. 
  
  Just to keep more great Valve games coming I would humbly offer a couple suggestions for getting 
 even more fun out this cutting edge technology. I think totally destructible terrain would make 
 for an even more spectacular ( physics in combat) problem solving type of action. Red Faction showed 
 the beginnings of this kind of gaming by allowing for the collapse of sructures on top of enemies. 
 HL2 had some of this in regards to smaller items like barrels being tossed around, but the structures 
 were pretty impregnable, except in some scripted scenes.
  
  Another thing I would like to see is having a first person perspective be a bit more of a wide 
 angle view, including Gordon's feet and legs being visible if his head is looking down at them. 
 When you are looking out at the real world, your field of view sees some of your own body at all 
 times. I realize that a computer monitor is not a wide angle friendly shape unless you can implement 
 two side by side, but how about a compromise which brings the wide angle view of the body, and 
 then a more condensed perspective of the world around him. Far Cry had a bit more interesting gun 
 in arms perspective with some breathing motion thrown in.
  
  Well there is much more to this great game but its all been written up somewhere in these reviews 
 so I'll just keep it short and sweet. This is my best game experience yet . Bravo Valve.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2005 7:36 am PT
Review:  A Superb FPS of the sequel to the 1998 video game that amazed most gamerz. This games value is 
 worth all of your money. It is amazing as said. Ok the sound for this game is decent but it has 
 slightly bad commentary and there was a part where your in a street war as a rebel and your being 
 bombed by bombs. The sound effects for the bombs didn't quite sound all great like a war game but, 
 they were still very good. Also I liked the sound effect when your refilling your heath, same sound 
 as from the first part. Ok now for the graphics. Simply the best graphics seen. The best of the 
 best, the water graphics and when your swimming underwater is just so real it will amaze you. Also 
 the environment looks perfect. I played half-life 2 with a Geforce FX 5200 256mb and while I had 
 512mb of ram. So I was able to put everything on high without any problems. Anyways onto the gameplay. 
 Very addicting things to do in half life 2. They include messing with the physics such as the ragdoll 
 physic, using the gravity gun on variety of objects and best of all near the end theres a special 
 weapon surprise in which you guys must play this game to find out! I enjoyed the great dune buggy 
 driving but what really lead me to like the driving was the boat driving. It's worth upgrading 
 your pc for this game, heck I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmyofPie
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  he game has the best story mode I've ever played in a video-game. I can't believe how good it was, 
 the game starts beautifully, but in the end the game is kind of short. 
  The graphics are nailed as perfect for any fair-graphic carded PCs. I can't believe the beauty 
 of the graphics featured in Half-Life 2. The character designs are incredible and unbelievable. 
 I've never seen better Lip-Sync in all my life in gaming.
  The Voice Acting is awesome, the music iswonderful and, if it is ever released, deserves to be 
 put on a soundtrack. I absolutley loved it! No one should have any problems with the controls, 
 seeing how you can simply change them to the way you desire. Closing up, This game is outstanding 
 and needs to be in your PC as fast as you can get your grubby hands on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellrazor9mm
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  This game is well worth the long wait we all went through. This game is a must have for any gamer 
 out there. The games runs very well on low-end pc's compared to other games. This game also includes 
 Half-Life 2 Multi player which allows you to play with other people on-line with the HL2 weapons 
 and characters. The level design is very good and it is a FPS that includes action, adventure, 
 and sometimes puzzle solving. In my opinion best game ever. If you like FPS's I highly recommend 
 this one. Go out and buy it if you don't have it already NOW! Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure you are all familiar with the original title, the long delays to get this sequel produced 
 and the much publicized bashing of the Steam service, so I won't get into any of that here. This 
 is just going to be a straightforward breakdown of the single player game. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  With the exception of the physics engine, there isn't much here that is different 
 from the current generation of FPS games. However, the physics added to the game are worth the 
 price of admission. While not perfect, the physics engine was very well done. The gravity gun is 
 an absolute blast to play with and adds a great new dynamic to the game. The only downside to the 
 physics on the Source engine is that the designers tended to show it off a bit too much. There 
 were a number of somewhat silly physics based puzzles that didn't fit into the game very well, 
 but these are momentary distractions and never really detract from the focus of the game. The rest 
 of the weapons are standard fare and not very memorable. 
  
  The level design is excellent for the most part, leading you were you need to go without making 
 you feel boxed in. Thanks to the excellent Source engine, both detailed indoor environments can 
 be rendered along with huge outdoor vistas. The designers did a great job of making you feel like 
 you were a speck in the middle of this huge level, when the actual playable area wasn't very large 
 at all.
  
  The added vehicles are fun to play with but their playtime could have been reduced in most situations. 
 At times, the game felt more like a travel film than a FPS. The controls and feel of the vehicles 
 was fine, they were just kept onscreen for a bit too long in most instances. 
  
  The AI of the enemies is always an important factor for a single player FPS. Despite all the years 
 of development, it doesn't appear that Valve made many AI improvements over the commandos from 
 the first Half Life. While the Combine troopers will use cover and occasionally lob a grenade, 
 they are pretty inconsistent. Unless you run headlong into a bad situation, they rarely flank effectively 
 when the opportunity is open. More times than not, it's a matter of realizing where they are staging 
 at and assaulting them head on. I'm not trying to say the AI is bad, it compares very well to most 
 single player FPS games. It's just that I was expecting a little more. 
  
  The AI of your squadmates is also a bit suspect. While they do a decent job of following your simplistic 
 "stay put/follow me" orders, they just don't seem that bright. Many times they'll block open doorways, 
 stand in exposed areas while taking fire and usually run headlong into the open instead of effectively 
 using cover. Occasionally they will do something inspired and save your behind, especially the 
 medics, but more times than not I was just using them as meat shields.
  
  The story is sort of a hybrid of 1984 and The Matrix. Big Brother watching you with aliens in cahoots 
 with certain humans while keeping thousands of people locked in some bizarre mutation pods. Honestly, 
 the story is a mess. Nothing much of value is revealed throughout the course of the game and the 
 ending is anti-climatic at best. I'm not somebody who cares that much about the story if the gameplay 
 is solid, but after this many years of waiting, the obvious "wait for Half Life 3" vibe of the 
 script left me feeling a little flat. 
  
  Graphics: 
  The Source engine is simply stunning. While I don't have a top of the line gaming rig (AMD 2800, 
 ATI 9800Pro) the game looked amazing. The performance was smooth and the look, animation and special 
 effects were all top notch. Unless you have a PC that is more than two generations behind the hardware 
 curve, you shouldn't be disappointed with the visuals in HL2.
  
  Sound: 
  The environmental sounds in the game are excellent. Every item that you can pick up and drop makes 
 a unique sound. There are the standard birds flying, chickets chirping and zombies moaning and 
 all are spot on. 
  
  The voice acting is top notch for the most part. The only complaint was a somewhat dull read from 
 Robert Guillame (Dr. Vance) . He is probably the most well known actor on the cast and frankly, he 
 sounded bored for the most part. Robert Culp (Dr. Breen) and Merle Dandridge (Alyx) did a much better 
 job injecting emotion into their characters. 
  
  The music is sparse in HL2 and when it does come it's the standard techno-lite fare that is common 
 to these types of games. It's competent stuff but hardly memorable. While occasionally the music 
 jumps in at odd times and by deafult seems a little too loud in the mix, it's rarely a distraction 
 and doesn't make much impact either way.
  
  Value: 
  The single player experience is very well done and of an acceptable length. I didn't keep track 
 of my exact playtime, but I'm guessing most seasoned FPS players will finish the single player 
 game within 15 hours. 
  
  I've never been a big fan of Counterstrike so I won't really comment on that. Let's just say that 
 I was a bit disappointed that the initial multiplayer component at release was just an update of 
 a mod that's over 5 years old. 
  
  The dredded Steam service isn't as horrible as everyone makes it out to be. The exception of course 
 is for the unfortunate 56k users still out there. Broadband users shouldn't have any problems and 
 really, Steam hasn't bothered me one bit in the six months of infrequent play sessions it took 
 me to finish the single player game.
  
  Tilt:
  A great single player experience. While the game does have a couple of pacing and story issues, 
 it overcomes that with some great gameplay and level design, solid set pieces and awesome technical 
 qualities. I wouldn't say this game is a revolutionary as the original Half Life was back in 1998, 
 but it's probably the best single player FPS released since. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert992002
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2005 3:46 am PT
Review:  Well here is my review of Half-Life 2 or as I like to call it, The best game ever. I got this game 
 in November 2004, and have been lovin it ever since. This is a great game because the visuals are 
 just amazing, the facial expressions and no cut-scenes at all. The sound is great because the ambients 
 (sorry if the spelling is wrong) make you feel your in real life. The gameplay is the best in any 
 game, ever because the first level when your on the houses running from the combine with your handy 
 crowbar, you feel like your getting chased and I think thats just amazing, and I can't forget the 
 best level in the game is Ravenholm, played it about 30 times now and it never gets old, the level 
 design was just great.
  
  Final Thought:
  
  I think this game is the best game ever because everything is great. This game is a must buy for 
 a PC Gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  Well I might as well say it. You need a strong computer for this game cause its got some great 
 graphics and great physics but, there never been a good game with only good graphic alone. They 
 game-play has some different variety all through it. It gives you a lot to do. The AI wasn't as 
 good as expected but, it still was sometimes challenging. The story wasn'y something amazing but, 
 at least it wasn't boring and still was the same as some other games but, atleast your the same 
 kind of character as those games. through it all it definitely raised the bar on specs for computers 
 and hopefully the next half-life will be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unreal-Strife
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2, a game which has been hyped for 3 years now, has finally arrived on PC. A sequel of 
 the original Half Life, a blockbuster game which shocked the entire gaming world, this game lives 
 up to its original. 
  
  However, other than it's engaging single-player mode, there is no multiplayer for Half Life 2. 
 Included however is the classic game, wrapped in a new skin, Counterstrike: Source. Counterstrike: 
 Source, is the multiplayer for Half Life 2 in the Source engine - The engine that Half Life 2 uses. 
 With this gorgeous new graphics and physics, Counterstrike: Source will again take the gaming world 
 by storm as the original Counterstrike did. 
  
  The graphics of Half Life 2, however, have not been ruined by the long time in development. In 
 fact, it is still the best looking shooter out in the market, comparable to Far Cry. 6 months after 
 its release, the graphics are still great. The weapons feel underpowered though, having to shoot 
 Combine soldiers multiple times to kill them. The sound of Half Life 2 is also not great. The weapons 
 feel ridiculously underpowered, especially the pistol, which sounds like the muzzle's been covered 
 with cloth.
  
  If you are looking for a shooter that will engage you for dozens of hours, don't hesitate to pick 
 Half Life 2. A note of warning here - 56k users should not attempt to buy Half Life 2, because 
 the Steam service requires you to unlock the game files first which will take hours using a 56k 
 connection. 
  
  The Steam service has had mixed reactions worldwide though. Hate it, love it, its here to stay. 
 Steam has lowered score of the game considerably, where it puts 56k users at a disadvantage by 
 having them to connect to the internet even to play offline.
  
  Although there are a lot of shooters out there in the market, Half Life still beats them all. If 
 you haven't already, go and buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colossi
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Half - Life 2 needs hardly any introduction. The game, from developer valve software is the sequel 
 to 1998's all-time greatest first person shooter Half - Life which revolutionized the genre and 
 brought it to a whole new level by emphasizing the importance of cinematic story telling.
  
  With that said, the expectations are high with this one. So one naturally expects HL2 to be 
 of the caibur to it's predecessor, in fact even more. After all the delays and PR drama, the question 
 remains - is it what the fans wanted?
  
  Let's break it down, folks:
  
  - It's your regular shooter all right. Certainly some great set pieces await, but the fact that 
 the Artificial intelligence highly simplistic is a real turn off, since a lot of promises about 
 the A. I. valve made at E3 2003 were not to be found in the actual game. The game is also fairly 
 easy, and around 10 - 15 hours long for the veteran gamer. 
  
  - The voice acting is top notch, and the characters are real - not talking about the detailed character 
 models - but they actually have a third dimension in the way they behave, animate and react. It 
 really is a bummer that they can't be killed (would lead to all sorts of great opportunites) and 
 Marc Laidlaw's story doesn't elevate them to do more than saying some witty and humourous lines. 
 The charcaters have potential to become a lot more than they are.
  
  - The concept is not a very original one, yet it definitely adds to the atmosphere unlike most 
 FPS (s) we've seen. Valve has drawn inspirations from George Orwell's "1942", and for the most 
 part created moments that are very powerful. Props go for the highly atmospheric introduction at 
 the train station and the emotion technology integrated in the source engine.
  
  - The game consists of a lot of buggy and water sequences, very much like Far Cry. However, valve 
 has done a much better job than CryTek in making these scenes memorable and the controls are satisfying. 
 
  
  - The graphical presentation, one of the main attractions for the game ever since it wowed audiences 
 at E3 2003 is still very good, but not as much as it could have been if it had released last year.
 
  
  - The art direction is simply phenomenal, everytime you look at this imaginary world valve has 
 crafted, it's hard not to be impressed.
  
  - Physics. Yes, they are the best in any game seen to date, and undeniable make HL2 different from 
 other functional shooters, however they don't really change and enhance the gameplay by quite a 
 lot. The game allows you to totally ignore the feature, and at times just force them on you through 
 conventional puzzles.
  
  - The online is a rehash of counterstrike. Yes, I was dissapointed because I wanted something that 
 was fun and interesting and not what I've been playing for the past 5 years.
  
  - Like all sequels, HL2 plays it safe. Some moments are definitely inspired by the original. The 
 story is quite unfocused throughout the game - just like the original - and we are just confronted 
 by sudden sequences leading upto an anti-climatic ending.
  
  On the whole, HL2 is a technically impressive game that will definitely keep fans of the series 
 satisfied. Although it isn't the ground breaking sequel everyone expected, it still is one of the 
 best shooters this years - one which can not be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2005 4:11 am PT
Review:  For those who have been living in a cave for the last 30 years, video games are cool, and this 
 is the coolest video game there is. Now that I officially sound like an idiot, time to move on 
 to the reviewing stage.
  
  Being the first game to successfully incorporate a physics engine as complex as is featured in 
 Half-Life 2, and being the sequel to previously the best game ever, HL2 was pretty much a given 
 to sell. Not so little known was that it would also be a damned good game... well... this damned 
 good anyway. A wholly enjoyable FPS with excellent physics, a great blend of sci-fi and reality, 
 stand-alone aspects that allow people who didn't like or didn't play the original Half-Life to 
 jump right in and play this coming, and some... interesting (some would say great, others horrible) 
 online features incorporated make HL2 the excellent game it is. Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Value... 
 hell, the game is almost perfect. I assume Value to be replay value, which it somewhat lacks -- but 
 you can't have everything. Since there really is no perfect game (Except the old school classics 
 that didn't have to do much to be perfect in their time) , this is about as close as it gets, folks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_U_M_E_G
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the game PC actions gamers have been waiting for. Half-Life 2 offers an intriguing and 
 immersive single player story, which seems cut off by its short ending. Even with this Half-Life 
 2 offers an amazing campaign thats very replayable. I'm on my third time through at the moment. 
 Just walking through the streets of City17 is a site to behold. There are so many people and objects 
 to interact with in just the first few areas that you might find yourself walking around the eerie 
 trainstation for hours taking in all the terrific visuals. If a reviewer gives graphics lower than 
 a 10 for this game they should have their head examined. The gameplay give us all we remember from 
 the original Half-Life plus a new added feature that allows Gordon (the main character) to pick 
 up, drop, and throw objects he is able to carry (pretty much everything smaller or lighter than 
 a barrel) . This new added feature allows for some interesting puzzles like building stairs to access 
 a new area. Since my favorite genre of games are FPS (first person shooters) I should know great 
 gameplay when I see it =P. The only real downside about this game is the sound. When I say sound 
 I dont mean random noises like footsteps or anything of that nature. Its the musical score that 
 let me down somewhat. I can only remember 1-2 times where music came on during the course of the 
 game, and it did not even sound of good quality. Sound is becoming increasingly more important 
 in todays games and game makes have to step up to the challenge. The game shouldn't take you that 
 long to complete, but it does give you a nice backup of experience to take into the incredible 
 multiplayer! Multiplayer is the key essential to a great FPS. Half-Life 2 has amazed me at how 
 it can keep simple deathmatch/teamplay games feeling fresh and new everyday. This is the one FPS 
 that PC gamers MUST OWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButnMashr
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  Fps have come a long way from the roots of doom and rising of quake, but this game takes the cake, 
 along comes a game with Physics and AI when combined does come a great aspect too come.
  
  Me? Im a total single player person I play for story and this story is amazing I defeated it in 
 hard and hoping too raise the bar. Other than that I occasionally play on-line. Games like day 
 of defeat, or sometimes counterstrike. I personally can't wait too see how the source of DOD will 
 come out. Judging by counterstrike source. I think it'll look better than I hoped it would.
  
  Dood it's half life just get it you can't go wrong with the game and you won't be upset! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentdeathX
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  A lot can be said about this game. Many love it and few hate it. Little was done wrong, and much 
 was done with perfection. The story for one, was just so new and origional but at the same so believable! 
 The graphics were fantastic! In fact the game played extremely well on low end computers with pretty 
 high settings. The multiplayer is addictive and sound just surrounds you... But there are a few 
 points I see that are flawed. The multiplayer seems too redundant. One objective, kill as much 
 as you can and do the same thing for at least a good 30 minutes. Besides that, the single player 
 seemed too short. But all this is a small price to pay for one of THE greatest FPS' around!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philipsan
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 has kept us all waiting too long. The game is out and I am glad they havent announced 
 it earlier than they did. Else the the wating would have felt life-long.
  
  The game pulls you directly into the same old atmosphere, which the old game did so well. An atmosphere 
 filled with emotions and quality from sound, animation and design. From the beginning, Half-life 
 2 appears to use some of the same sounds as in the first Half-life, which instantly reminds you 
 of the old game from '98. You get this nostalgy trip, which brings back good feelings.
  
  The game paces you right into the story and does it well, introducing the characters and the game-world 
 itself. You feel included into this world immediatly, but why is that. 
  
  One reason for that and one of the cornerstones of the game is its technology build into its game-engine. 
 The graphics, animations and emotions are top notch.
  
  After playing trought the game, it leves you behind with a thrilled and stunned image of the last 
 10 hours gameplay. You simply want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seymour47
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 16, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet. Half-Life 2 by no means lived up to all the hype. I'm not even 
 going to go into my supreme hatred of Steam. The graphics were as amazing as promised, but beyond 
 that the game takes a nose dive. The only truly new and exciting thing about the game play was 
 the gravity gun. The ability to use much of the environment as a projectile was very nicely done. 
 As far as FPS go, this was just like most of the others out there...... good, but not great. The 
 level designs were good, but nothing outstanding about them. The weapons were nothing special (other 
 than the afore mentioned gravity gun) . Character design was very limited. Didn't anyone notice 
 the complete lack of assorted enemies? The end of the game, not surprisingly, attempts to leave 
 you with more questions than answers. And, it does. My question was whether they ran out of time 
 and had to throw together the lamest game ending fight ever in about a week. 
  
  Yes, I was sucked in by the hype and I increased Valve's coffers. But, you can be sure that I won't 
 make that mistake again. If you really want to play the game I suggest you either buy it used from 
 one of us suckers or wait until the price drops to about $30. Then it might be worth the money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medic
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2005 12:17 am PT
Review:  After coming back from one of the greatest gaming experiences of my life, I am here to tell you 
 why you should play Half Life 2, and why you should boil alive if you dont.
  
  First off, if you haven't played Half Life, get a brain scan for tumors.
  
  You back? Good. 
 Half Life is heralded as the greatest First Person Shooter ever. It has gained some of the greatest 
 reviews in gaming history and the greatest MODS ever. This game is here to take over; with storming 
 success I might add.
  
  First of all, let's discuss these graphics. Great? No. Fantastic? No. Godlike? Closer, maybe Mr. 
 Webster can come up with some new words for this one. One of the ultimate comparisons this game 
 is going to have is with Doom 3. I firmly believe the Source engine is much better. The textures 
 are at least 5 times as good, and the art of the game is amazing.
  
  All the Doom 3 engine has on this one is lighting, which isn't extremely important in this game, 
 but holds its own and comes out looking impressive.
  
  When it comes to Gameplay, this game delivers on all fronts. Puzzles make you feel smart, but don't 
 go Myst on you and make you want to smack your head through a wall or give your mouse a firm beating.
 
  
  Most of the puzzles revolve around using the "Gravity Gun" or making use of the best physics system 
 to date.
  
  This brings me to that very system, its mind boggling. Every item in the game, from dolls to lifeless 
 corpses react just like they would in real life and playing around with it never gets old.
  
  The sound is also sublime in its quality. You can hear the communication between the combine 
 and the scuffle of a bottle. Everything sounds just right, from weapons to bottles shattering. 
 You won't be disappointed.
  
  Besides being possibly the best shooter ever, this game sports the best game engine out there, 
 meaning some of the best MODS, already planned and in development, will make this game last longer 
 than you can imagine. You won't be deleting this game from your Hard Drive for a long time buddy.
 
  
  All in all, if you don't pick up this game, you will be missing out on one of Computer Gamings 
 greatest. Don't make that mistake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSjunkies
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  While I write this, my first fully written review. I will try not to be swayed by my immensely 
 favored Mod Counter-Strike Source. Although this game needs no help in the score from this game 
 it would be hard pressed to not see me write a full review for that mod alone. For the plain and 
 simple fact that it is almost as revolutionary as the first. But a better playing game overall. 
 This first person shooter is in a league of it's own. As the first Half-Life set such a high standard 
 for games, this meets those standards and sets new. But enough banter.......
  
  In this game you play the very transparent, Gordan Freeman. The man who attempted to rid the earth 
 of those pesky "alien" scum. But here you see them as all of his survival meant nothing. Which 
 is what this game seems like once again a survival game. Once again you have to speak to the infamous 
 G-man. The really weird guy that was always watching you slay the mighty creations of the Black 
 Mesa corporation. Which he apparently is still "watching" you as you fight your way through the 
 place of City 17. But that is for you to know when you complete the game.
  
  The environments aren't necessarily huge, but they use every inch of each area well. As you will 
 find yourself jumping boxes and climbing ladders to get around the masses of headcrabs, headcrab 
 zombies, and all of the other famous creatures of Half-Life. This game is so artistic it makes 
 Valve seem like the Van Gogh of the video game industry. 
  
  The graphics while technical, run very smooth on lower end systems while still looking quite good. 
 But with a fast system this game looks like no other. It may not be revolutionary here, but it 
 leaves developers a new idea on how to approach the graphics of video games.
  
  The sound is wonderful in 5.1, or 4.1, or 2.1, or 2.0, or headphones, or any way you can suck sound 
 out of the game with quality components. It is just great. You can hear bullets crushing the box 
 you hide behind. Hear the choppers twirling above you. Hearing the headcrabs leap at you as they 
 break out of a box. The guns feel powerful in your hands. Hearing the enemies scream "Grenade" 
 as you well place a grenade at their feet.
  
  I which the enemy AI is amazing in this game. If you close one door they will go to the window 
 and shoot through. Or go to the other entrance that you didn't even know about. They act as any 
 well trained grunt would. Although their shot's aren't as precise as they could be, being how long 
 your health and armor last. They still shoot like they should.
  
  This game has more substance than a drug bust. Along with the amazing style. It has wonderful in 
 game "cut scenes." If you want to call them that. They are always mixing it up to keep you interested 
 in the game. There are areas of the game where you won't even use an actual gun for a chunk of 
 the game. But it is still more fun than some of the other shooters of today. So some of the other 
 shooters of today are being beaten when you don't even have a gun in Half-Life 2.
  
  This game although very revolutionary, it isn't as much so as the first Half-Life was. But who 
 can expect that from them twice in a row. This game is still more fun to play in my book.
  
  There are only three real "problems" in this game. They are:
  
  Although this game is just 
 "long enough." You still want it to be longer. But also, you aren't answered any questions about 
 the story of the original Half-Life. Leaving you hanging in the same spot as you were before.
 
  
  Just as well this game seems somewhat easy. As the first game was painfully difficult. This game 
 it seems like you will never die. Your armor and health lasts like a tank. You can't be hit with 
 this many bullets and live. I mean yes it shouldn't be "realistic" in these circumstances. But 
 the sheer intelligence of the enemy AI balances this out enough to make it difficult enough for 
 you to die a few times here and there.
  
  This game may just be the first person shooter some only dream of. But it is choked to death by 
 the resounding word of Steam. If you just look at Steam as it is alone, it is a very good idea. 
 But when they require you to install it, then download pieces of the game off of their server. 
 Which by the way takes forever even on a good connection. This did up the value of the game a little, 
 but dropped the tilt. It will make the game last longer with access to all of the mods of the community. 
 But makes you wait more for the game. Steam is good once you install it, as they allow you to not 
 let it launch with your system if you don't want it to. Plus it will update the game for you.
 
  
  Still this game should be running on everyone's system that enjoys a good first person shooter. 
 Is it better than the original Half-Life, yes. Is it more revolutionary, not quite. Still it should 
 live forever with the original Half-Life, and all of the other big kahunas of the industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcspanky
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't do PC games
  
  All that "W for forward", "Ctrl + Page Up for fire" nonsense, and yet... the controls for Half 
 Life 2 seem so minimal
  
  I don't do FPSs
  
  Maybe it's some type of vertigo, or autism, but I never can remember what to press to look up, 
 to turn right, to move forward, but HL2 is EASY!
  
  Let's cut to the chase, shall we?
  
  Half Life 2 is quite simply the most stunning visual, aural gameplay experience I have ever 
 had. The story's cool, the areas are vast and incredibly detailed, the monsters/enemies realistic 
 and threatening. It's the most totally immersive experience I have ever had. And the sound! Plug 
 in headphones and it really feels like you are in Ravenholm, Nova Prospekt and all the other brilliantly 
 realised surroundings as guns crack behind you and warfare explodes in the distance. I tell ya, 
 if it weren't so overrun by Combine and Antlions, I'd go up Highway 17 for my holidays - it's that 
 inviting.
  
  Thank you Sierra, Valve and everyone involved for changing my mind for making PC gaming a pleaseure, 
 and for giving me something to do on my computer other than look at porn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  When people think of Half-Life, they think of a revolutionary, ground-breaking masterpiece released 
 6 years ago. When gamers finished the original Half-Life they were left hungry and wanting more, 
 so a sequel was not if, but when. Well, 6 years later, Half-Life 2 is released. After much eager 
 anticipation, rumours and even software theft, the sequel to the greatest FPS of all time is here! 
 And was it worth the wait? OH YES!!
  
  Half-Life continues the story of the original, an unknown number of years later. Without giving 
 away too much, the Earth has been conquered by an alien force called the Combine, and the G-Man, 
 the shadowy suit from the original, unleashes Gordon Freeman on Earth to help defeat the Combine. 
 The game now takes place in many different environments and locales, instead of just the Black 
 Mesa. Unfortunately, you will not be able to travel to the alien world, Xen, in Half-Life 2, like 
 you did in the original.
  
  You will meet a lot of interesting characters along the way, including your old security guard 
 buddy Barney Calhoun, and fellow scientists Dr. Kleiner and Dr. Vance. Vance's daughter, Alyx, plays 
 an important part in the story of Half-Life 2. I won't give away too much, but the story is winding, 
 imaginative and original.
  
  Graphics are sensational in Half-Life 2. The Source Engine is a masterpiece, with superb physics 
 (very good rag-doll physics) and graphical achievements. Water is sensational!! Also, character 
 models are jaw-dropping, and it is fantastic to see their faces change to suit different emotions 
 or scenarios. Fear, joy, grief - you'll see them all upon the faces of the game's characters! Aslo, 
 there is a gun which can vaporize people with its grenades and this is a graphical treat, as the 
 particles of their body literally come apart!
  
  Sound is also very good, scoring a 10. Music is frenzied and exciting, and gun noises and ambience 
 is also fantastic. Voice-acting is sensational as well. With 5.1 surround, no game will sound better 
 than Half-Life 2, I guarantee you.
  
  But most importantly, is the gameplay as good as the first Half-Life? Yes, yes it is. There are 
 many memorable and jaw-dropping moments, and combat is still very exciting. However, in all honesty, 
 there are some let-downs. The AI is pretty good, using cover very efficently, but they do not remind 
 me of real soldiers. They have no consideration for their own lives, so they will rush into open 
 fire way too many times, and fighting them is not as fun as it should be. Also, when generally 
 fighting Combine soldiers, they usually have a huge tactical advantage, such as standing on higher 
 terrain, which makes some sequences very frustrating. Also, the last chapters in the city could 
 have been a bit more exciting, I believe. 
  
  The Gravity Gun is a great new addition to the game. This allows you to manipulate objects, launching 
 them and catching them as if they weighed nothing. Much fun and chaos will ensue with this tool! 
 
  
  So in conclusion, Half-Life 2 is an exceptional game and should not be missed. Forget what you 
 have heard about Steam, it's not that bad! The addition of CS: Source is also fantastic!
  
  Half-Life 2 is not to be missed, there is simply no excuse! This is not a game, this is an experience!
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowHawk
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I've waited this long to review the game because I wanted to play SP/MP/ and Counter-Strike Source, 
 also to try out some mods.
  
  I don't want to sound like a fanboy but this is the greated FPS series ever. Why? Cause what HL 
 did for PC gaming, and spawing the ultimate modding community, HL2 is just going to multiply that. 
 The SP is great except the ending.. You KNEW there was an expansion comming out when you finished 
 it. Lets just leave it at that. Mutiplayer DM is fun, miss some of the guns from the orginal HL 
 but the knew ones fill the gap in quiet nicelly. Counter-Strike Source.. I loved playing CS, and 
 now I wan to have its baby. And I'm a guy so try explaining that one to modern day science! Awesome, 
 that's really the only word I can use to describe how much freaking fun I have in that game. Ok, 
 so I gave it a 9/10 for the "Reviewer's Tilt" why? Cause of the ending. lol. Basically I wanted 
 to punch my computer screen.. Cause someones face was on it.. Play it and you'll see =P! Anyways 
 overall 9.7/10 Get It, Play it, Own it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fexxe
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 have so many features! Not alone do you get this fantastic game! You also get a total 
 new version of one of the most played games ever; Counter Strike Source!
  but lets go back to Half Life 2:
  if you are looking for a good gameplay, this game really gives 
 the rush! You can spend 100 of hours playing this game even after youve completed it! 
  Theres also a online version of Half Life 2 called Half Life Deathmatch. This mode is only Deathmatch, 
 but even though it may sound borring, you can spend many houres busting other online players.
 
  If I have to say a negative thing, Ill pick the sound (Its the only bad thing) , much of the 
 sound is from the old Half Life, only made in a little better quality.
  Overall this game is worth the money and you dont get bored with it right away!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameisjosh657
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2005 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the sequel to the critically acclaimed Half-Life, released in 1998. It's been a 
 while since Gordon Freeman, the main protagonist of the series, has had some action on his hands 
 and I'm glad to say that his latest adventure is one incredibly sweet game.
  Your adventure starts out some time after the end of Half-Life, where you were given a choice: 
 Work for the Gman or die horribly. Of course, Half-life 2 wouldn't exist if Gordon died, so you 
 are working for Gman in Half-Life 2. The story is presented in a way that there are no cutscenes 
 to feed you the story, and everything is in-game. You only know as much as Gordon Freeman knows. 
 As a result, the story can be very fuzzy and unclear to decipher if you don't pay attention to 
 all the small details in the dialogue. Which brings me to discuss a high point in Half-Life 2: 
 the characters.
  The digital actors in Half-Life 2 are incredibly well animated and voiced superbly. This is apparent 
 from the moment you first start your game and come face to face with Gman. You can tell that an 
 insane amount of time was put into making the characters as believable as possible. The first time 
 I played this game I was awed at the acting and animation of the different characters you come 
 across. I would say this is the one thing in Half-Life 2 that will blow you away the first time 
 you see it.
  Half-Life 2 is extremely atmospheric and immersive. You don't feel like you're playing a computer 
 game when you play Half-Life 2, and it is very easy to lose yourself in the world of Half-Life 
 2. Everything about the presentation contributes to this effect: the sound, the graphics, the acting, 
 the sparse and eerie techno music, everything. The whole game is remarkably well put together. 
 
  I don't know if I need to talk more about the visuals, but it must be said: Half-Life 2 is the 
 best looking game I've ever seen, period. The Source engine is sickeningly awesome, and it creates 
 some very photorealistic environments, as well as uber-cool physics. Every object in the game is 
 accurately represented by the physics engine. A lot of the time in the game, it's fun to just mess 
 around with objects and gawk at the physics and how realistic everything reacts to your presence. 
 It's really something.
  And now, the negatives. This game is not perfect, as much as I would like to say it is. The AI 
 is pretty stupid, and most of the time the enemies come charging at you or they just stand out 
 in the open waiting to be shot. This aspect is very disappointing. The music, while being cool, 
 is totally forgettable techno. It's good, but I wish there was a Half-Life theme or something. 
 Lastly, this game is easy, almost too easy. There were only a couple times where I was really being 
 challenged in the game. The game makes up for this through it's length and it's atmosphere, but 
 the difficulty issues are still there.
  Multiplayer consists of Half-Life 2 deathmatch and Counter-Strike: Source. I have not had a chance 
 to really spend some time with these modes, but I can say that if you are are into multiplayer 
 FPS you will dig these modes. The multiplayer adds a ton of value to the package, and makes Half-Life 
 2 worth the money in the long-run.
  Half-Life 2 is a game that sticks with you long after you beat it. You remember the characters 
 and atmosphere when you think of the game, and you think of the awesome action in the game, and 
 the physics. This game is going to stay in my memory for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobdillon
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me get the obvious out of the way right at the start; the Source engine is absolutely stunning. 
 However, having also played Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines (which uses much of the same technology) 
 I can testify that Half-Life 2s achievements are far from its engines alone. The visuals, the 
 sound, the PHYSICS all are beautifully realised and totally integrated within the game world. 
 Overall the level of quality in the production of this game is not only consistently breathtaking 
 but also encourages a level of emotional involvement that Ive never previously experienced. In 
 this respect the character led set pieces are worthy of mention alone; they never fail to leave 
 the widest of grins on your face and at times give you the feeling of having a bit part in your 
 favourite TV show.
  
  The really amazing thing for me is the way that Half-Life 2 makes you feel like your character 
 is really growing throughout the course of the game and Im not just talking about the usual levelling-up 
 or acquisition of new skills. In much the same way that Neo in the Matrix becomes more than the 
 sum-of-his-parts by the end of the film, as Gordon Freeman you feel a real shift from the start 
 of the game where you are on the run from overwhelming forces, to the mid point where you assume 
 the mantle of a resistance hero and Strider Killer, to the final levels where well, that would 
 be saying too much. Suffice to say that by the time I entered the final scene I was so pumped up 
 with adrenaline that I couldve taken on the Nihilanth myself bare handed! Basically HL2 is one 
 of the most perfectly paced/balanced games I have ever played and, frankly, anyone who bemoans 
 the games relatively moderate difficulty settings is just missing the point.
  
  Part of the reason for this sensation is the power that your NPC comrades have in providing a real, 
 visceral response to your actions. Simple things like the change in the way that characters address 
 you throughout the course of the game really help to promote the feeling that your mounting achievements 
 are important to them and to the fate of the world in general. It is hard to describe the impact 
 that this has on your experience of the game but Ill just say that it is far more satisfying than 
 just receiving the next class of weapon or power up and it really makes the story transitions all 
 the more engaging. As I said before though, HL2 isnt just a technology show. As with many things 
 in in the game the devil is in the detail and I think it would be much harder to feel sympathetic 
 toward your fellow resistance fighters if their responses werent so well designed and, well acted! 
 Forget about notions of interactive movies, this is where true cinematic gaming really begins.
 
  
  One of the few real bones of contention that some people have had with Half-Life 2 is the perceived 
 lack of substance in its underlying story, and indeed the lack of explanation regarding any of 
 the events witnessed in the original game. It is true that in many ways HL2 treats its parent as 
 another country; referring to it for the sake of continuity but thats about it. In its scope though 
 HL2 has much wider margins and can be seen as the beginning to a much larger plot line for which 
 Half-Life was merely the prologue (I know one hell of a prologue!) . In this game a lot of time 
 is spent setting up new themes and establishing new supporting characters, but it is only as we 
 draw to the end that we see a glint of the larger picture emerging (this assertion is now backed 
 up by the news that the upcoming expansion pack will continue things almost directly from where 
 HL2 leaves off) . In fairness Valve should really have made its intentions for the Half-Life franchise 
 much clearer before this games release to prevent fans from feeling under whelmed. That being said, 
 try to think of HL2 as The Empire Strikes Back to Half-Lifes Star Wars: A New Hope. Much like 
 that classic film sequel the games action sequences, and your immersion in them never feels hamstrung 
 by the epic pretensions underlying the script. Furthermore, while the ending provides a quite unexpected 
 question mark finale, this episode in the saga still manages to have more than its fair share 
 of memorable moments while still reaching a rounded, natural conclusion to events.
  
  However, as with Half-Life before it the real interest in HL2s story is to be found in the telling. 
 In my opinion there are few games that take such a mature view of in-game narrative, or ingrain 
 their story elements so completely within the gameplay itself. Valve has built on their ethic of, 
 no cut scenes, clean level transitions, and never leaving the players perspective, by creating 
 levels that literally sing story and atmosphere to you as you play through them. Because of the 
 way the game immerses you in your surroundings you never feel like youre missing out on any of 
 the overt exposition that many games rely upon to move things forward. It really is a testament 
 to the time Valve has spent crafting HL2 that the final sensation is of having lived through the 
 game rather then just being told what was going on before entering yet another action set piece. 
 Compare HL2s design nuances with those of other games in its genre (even FarCry which is arguably 
 a more innovative game in terms of player freedom Gravity Gun not withstanding) and I think there 
 really is no contest. After all, this is a game that can impasse more plot subtly in an overheard 
 loud speaker announcement or briefly glimpsed graffiti decal than most other titles can do with 
 a five minute long cut scene and youve got to love that.
  
  Again, it is worth stating that the shear emotive nature of Half-Life 2 cannot be underplayed. 
 The fact is that I have never played a game that immersed and excited me to such a level that it 
 made me play it over again as soon as I had finished it the first time round! In my humble opinion 
 this game is so achingly close to perfection that most of its criticisms just become exercises 
 in nit-picking. When all is said and done if you are at all interested in first person adventures 
 then you really must play this game. In fact, stop reading this review right now and go and play 
 it. Go on GO!
  
  ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrino
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  For those who are claiming that Half-Life 2 does not outclass the original, let me say this: They 
 must be using selective memory and nostalgia to come to that conclusion. As good as the original 
 Half-Life was, it had some major flaws and was not as good as you probably remember. Particularly 
 in the final 1/3 of the game which involved a very tedious series of jump puzzles and an ending 
 which was fairly anticlimactic and concluded very little of the Half-Life story. What made the 
 original so good were the new directions it took story telling in a first person shooter (FPS) . 
 Half-Life 2 continues this progression in a grand fashion. It may not be a revolution but its a 
 significant evolution which results in the best FPS bar none.
  
  The graphics are absolutely ground breaking. The detail of the NPCs is very high and the animation 
 is excellent. The detail even extends to facial expressions and moving eyes that at times follow 
 you just as they should and can even be a bit eery at times. The world around you is about as real 
 as it gets with good draw distances and great art style. The buildings and alleys of City 17 are 
 quite a site. I'll bet that the first half hour of play for most players involved two things. Checking 
 out the surroundings and the new physics system. You are barely be aware of the fact that you don't 
 even hold a weapon. You simply don't notice. That statement alone should tell you how great City 
 17 looks and feels.
  
  To be fair, Doom 3 also set new heights as far as graphics but comparing the two reminded me of 
 what John Carpenter said of Rob Bottin's effects in "The Thing". He said that if Rob had his way, 
 no direct light would be cast on the monsters. The irony being that no one could see the amazing 
 work but no one could contest that they were amazing.
  
  Half-Life 2, on the other hand, takes the creatures out of the darkness and puts them in plain 
 site in all there glory and full color. As far as monster detail and lighting go Doom 3 may take 
 the cake but Half-Life 2's entire world is so much more vast and impressive that the graphics nod 
 would have to go to Half-Life 2.
  
  And then there is the gameplay and interaction that Half-Life 2 provides. Simply unparalleled in 
 PC (or console) gaming to date. There is plenty of great weapon combat as well as puzzles to solve 
 and exploration. The addition of drivable vehicles is simply a treat. The physics are very forgiving 
 in the vehicles but that just adds to the simple pleasure of making Evil Knievel like jumps and 
 landing without taking much damage. The physics are also used extensively in the puzzle solving. 
 Most are a bit obvious but all of them provide logical solutions with hands on interaction that 
 make them fun to solve and execute. I would not even think to mention any of them but I can simply 
 say they are all a lot of fun to complete.
  
  The pacing and progression in Half-Life 2 are near perfect. You never feel bored or over whelmed 
 by the combat. You are challenged at times but there is no feeling of trial and error. Those that 
 want a bit more challenge can crank up the difficulty but I found the default just fine. In fact, 
 even though I had almost reached the end of a segment I would find I would not always load the 
 last auto-save. Why? Because its was that much fun. Even just after finishing a segment of the 
 game you often realized a different strategy that may have been better or more fun. Its this kind 
 of instant replayability that only a handful of games can claim.
  
  Also, the quality and uniqueness of the levels does not let up. No long series of jump puzzles 
 here. Each area is almost an entire game genre in itself. There is a long stretch of racing like 
 action. A full town worth of Resident Evil like goodness and enough weapons to make any FPS fan 
 happy.
  
  All in all, Half-Life 2 is a gorgeous game that provides the best single player FPS experience 
 out there. It even runs on systems that could not handle Doom 3 (including my own) and runs quite 
 well. And unlike Doom 3, The entire game is as impressive as the technology that delivers it. It 
 is an instant classic and truly raises the bar once again.
  
  One negative that the reviews are quick to point out is that there is no "new" multi-player offering 
 with Half-Life 2. Once again I would accuse them of selective memory. The original multi-player 
 Half-Life was pretty much overlooked for the better offerings of Quake, Quake 2, and Tribes. So 
 its not much of a negative that there is no Gordon Freeman death match out of the box. What Valve 
 does provide it all the development tools that will help support the great mod community that created 
 the likes of Counter Strike.
  
  And don't let all the negative talk of Steam scare you away. It is a bit disturbing to see things 
 change in this way but the "ownership" of software is changing and Steam represents the future 
 of software distribution. Sure there are some bumps but it set up find for me and it does have 
 some benefits to offset the hassles. If you have a decent PC get this game. You won't regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki00
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  I never finished Half Life 1, but I did enjoy it, so I was looking forward to this game. First 
 and formost, the graphics on this game is amazing. I have played Doom 3 and HL2, and both are great 
 in graphics, but for different reasons. HL2, the reflection and the face model of the characters 
 are something I have not seen before. I loved it.
  The gameplay was pretty good. I did not enjoy all levels, *cough* *boat* *cough*. But for the most 
 part, I thought it was pretty well done. The enemies were little too easy to kill, all I had to 
 do was run up to them and shoot them. Usually I was out numbered 3 to 1 and I still barely got 
 hurt. The last level, way too easy. There were bit more puzzles in this game that I liked, but 
 it was not too bad.
  Overall, I liked the game, but I doubt I will replay the game again. I am not really looking forward 
 to the expention, but if it get good reviews, I might play it. Hope this helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsevil1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best game I have ever played, no whate this is the best game EVER!
  
  
  Gameplay: You may think that this is just another FPS when you start playing but that all changes 
 when you get the Gravity Gun. The Gravity Gun must be the best weapon in a FPS so far, why? because 
 it terns almost every thing into a wepon. From Sawblades to tables the Gravity Gun is the probaly 
 the weapon you will mosty use.
  
  Graphics: OMG! Thay are the best ive ever seen theres so much detale in ONE chapter that you may 
 not whant to go on to the next chapter because you don't whant to miss something. This is HL2's 
 best part, wate what am I saying everything it HL2's best part.
  
  Sound: From brids chriping to the moans and groans of Headcrab Zombies the sound is amazeing as 
 the graphics.
  
  Overall: Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is great, is ALMOST pefect, it isn't perfect because of some major problems, the first 
 one is the Steam Platform.
  
  Steam is a software that launches the game, and keeps valve games updated, it could sound good 
 but it is not, Steam uses a big amount of RAM that could be used for the game itself, is used by 
 steam, so if you have a computer with 256 mb the game is unplayable, with 512mb is playable but 
 not very enjoyable.
  
  Since the source code was cracked the game changed a lot, in my opinion the game looked better 
 before, the weapons were more realistic, the characters were more detailed, it seems like if they 
 were backwards instead of forward while developing the game, and also Half-Life 1 had more enemies 
 and weapons, another problem is the allies AI, they stand in your way and the updates do not fix 
 this problem.
  
  This are the only problems in the game, the good things about the game are bigger than them, so 
 you will find in HL2 one of the best games ever, but not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ControllerFreek
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is one of those games that proves what years of non-stop work can do for a game. It 
 recently worked with God of War and previously with The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, and now 
 it works once again. While Half-Life 2 may not reinvent the shooter in many ways, it still does 
 deliver everything you would expect, only five times better.
  The graphics in this game need no introduction, as anybody fond of this game already knows about 
 the gorgeous environments and breathtaking character models. Everything in the world looks superb, 
 and I do not believe graphics have gotten as good as Half-Life 2 expresses them. The weapon effects 
 and real-time physics (more on that later) really combine to give the player the most immersive 
 visual experience yet seen. My only gripe is that many of the environments themselves look kind 
 of bland, since a majority of the game takes place in City 17 (a gritty city filled with grime 
 and ranshacked buildings) .
  The sound design is also well done. Great voice-acting sells the characters and gives them their 
 own personality, while the music intensifies or calms down to suit the mood. The environmental 
 sounds also completely draw the player in to the world that is Half-Life 2.
  But the gameplay is what matters, and this game delivers this aspect of a game in spades. While 
 most of the game is spent running from place to place shooting bad guys, like every other shooter 
 known to man, this game does it with a style that makes it feel refreshing. Most encounters are 
 very hectic, forcing the player to think within milliseconds to plan his next plan of attack, and 
 the later levels, with Dropships and Striders, really make this game unique. For the most part, 
 the weapons are obvious, like the machine gun, shotgun, rocket launcher, grenades, and pistols. 
 But there are a few interesting ones. The crowbar returns, although you will probably find yourself 
 not using that too often. Another weapon, called a pherapod, allows the player to command a squad 
 of killer antlions. Let me tell you, other than using one other weapon (which I will speak of soon) , 
 there is nothing more satisfying than sending a swarm of killer beasts to rip and knock around 
 the combine (the evil group in this game) .
  Now for the two parts that really make this game shine, the level design and the gravity gun. The 
 levels in this game are plain incredible, with one notable level in particular simply called, "We 
 Don't go to Ravenholm". This level is probably the best level I have ever played in any game, and 
 it really makes the game feel all the more better. The reason is probably due to the fact that 
 just prior to the level, you receive the coolest "weapon" in game history, the Gravity Gun. This 
 is used to pull and throw objects around with tremendous force. Basically, this gun adds about 
 fifty times more strategy to the game than it would have had. For example, let us say you are under 
 fire from a small group of enemies that emerged from a doorway. You could pull out your machine 
 gun and shoot the buggers. Or you could use your G-gun to pull an explosive barrel from the corner 
 of the room over to you and hurl it into the group of enemies, annihilating every last one of them 
 and not wasting a shot. The G-gun also adds to the puzzle, making many puzzles require the use 
 of the G-Gun in many interesting ways.
  Simply put, anyone with a PC powerful enough to play Half-Life 2 should waste no time in going 
 out to the store and buying the game. For the people who don't, spend the money to get a PC powerful 
 enough and buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2005 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited Half Life 2 has finally arrived and as expected, gameplay is exceptional. The 
 graphics are just as beautiful as was expected by the community awaiting its arrival, and the return 
 of some of the weapon favorites, as well as the addition of the one and only gravity gun has definitely 
 made this a game worth investing into. However, Half Life 2's most noted flaw would be the shortness 
 of gameplay, as well as its easiness. I finished the game in just under 10 hours on normal without 
 the help of codes. I must say I am extremely disappointed with the length of the game considering 
 how long I waited for this game to come out, and priced at what it was when it came out, that was 
 robbery. I don't care about how marketing works. I know. I don't care so dont bother posting to 
 tell me it was all for profit. I'm not stupid. Hopefully with the addition of the expansion, which 
 better be longer then 5 hours or someone is getting choked, the game will be even better. hell, 
 maybe it will even be longer than the game itself, wouldn't that be something? Oh, before I forget, 
 the replay value isnt that high. Thank god for mod communities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoRay31
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 23, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  HL2 made me feel like a little kid again. The excitement and tension from the very beginning to 
 the very end are molded together in almost perfect balance. In my opinion the only drawback of 
 this game is its relative brevity. Still, I look forward to and hunger for expansions of good quality.
 
  
  Everything about the game is well done. The presentation is convincing and succinct and the characters 
 are compelling without ever really seeming contrived or cheesy. There is an oppressive and Orwellian 
 thickness to the game that makes finishing it seem like the most important thing you could do with 
 your time. For people that are self-employed, like me, this is a dangerous quality for a video 
 game to exhibit.
  
  The rendering is of spectacular quality and, as real as the surreal environment can seem, it does. 
 One of the more compelling components of the game is the vehicles. The hovercraft was absolute 
 genius and the cinematic, Hollywood effects during the segment were among the most convincing and 
 pure fun moments I have had in gaming. Ever.
  
  All in all, this is a spectacular game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyre577
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I was going into this game thinking "Hey since this game won't run great on my PC, 
 I guess I will never have fun with it.", now that I have been able to play it on my computer (all 
 three good mods too) , I now know, that like Doom 3, this game will work on any computer, unless 
 you have some crappy lower-than-1.5 ghz computer, then I don't think you should shy away from this 
 game. This was obviously made for the huge market of people who don't have exactly the kind of 
 computer most gamers do, that is, a computer that is higher than 3.0 gigahertz, or has a top-of-the-line 
 computer graphics card/other parts.
  
  If you ever thought that this game would just plain out suck on a computer that just meets the 
 mininum requirements, you are wrong, this game just obviously shows that graphics aren't as big 
 a part of a game as gameplay is, and you will still be able to have fun with this game, despite 
 some load time problems. On my computer, I was able to play this game passably on medium quality 
 graphics, and for that, it just had some problems taking a while to load, but beyond that, I had 
 no problems at all enjoying this game.
  
  Now that the graphical stuff is aside, I have to say, that since I was able to play this game so 
 far from its release, that I was able to enjoy full versions of Counter Strike, and Half Life 2: 
 Deathmatch. I will get more in depth with these later on, but for now I will start on the main 
 single-player portion of this game.
  
  In the graphics department, since I was playing this at medium quality, I have to say, that even 
 at that level, these graphics are really great, and surpass Doom 3's medium quality graphics. The 
 guns look fantastic, the lighting in this game is also great. They just put in enough mixture of 
 reflections and light in this game to make you think you are in a livable, breathable world. The 
 character designs are great too, but since I am still in the beginning, I was getting tired of 
 seeing all the same troops coming after me. But, for the ones who didn't have the masks, oh man 
 do they look as realistic as possible. The articulation in the mouth when they start to speak actually 
 looks and feels like they are speaking, unlike other shooters who just bypass the step of mouth 
 articulation and continue on, this one actually feels like the developers took their time in desiging 
 this game. 
  
  The sound in this game is also in particular also really good. The sound of the guns all sound 
 different, and that is how they are supposed to sound, not like the fake sounds you hear from games 
 like Doom 3 or whatever. Plus, as seeing from other sources, the surround sound in this game actually 
 pulls you in, as none of the voice-over work for the characters is bad, but I was getting tired 
 of hearing nothing from the main character all the time, and wondered what he would sound like.
 
  
  The gameplay is where this game hits the hardest. The physics are so real in this game, that you 
 would wonder why gaming developers haven't thought of this anyway (especially with GT 4 trying 
 to use an accurate as possible physics model) . The story weaves its way through the beginning, 
 and you go through episodes, sadly, it does take some loading problems on my PC, but that just 
 broke away from the experience as it loaded at certain checkpoints, of course, this did become 
 some sort of a problem, as whenever I got past a puzzle or something, it loaded, and it got really 
 annoying, but I suppose they could hopefully fix that with the expansion. This game has a few physics 
 puzzles to figure out, but they aren't the ones you would expect from physics class. Instead, they 
 are simple puzzles taking advantage of the game's huge physics engine, and I have to say, it does 
 it perfectly, from using boxes to get over a wall, to having to use your gun to unhinge a pipe 
 to take out foes, this game uses its physics model to its greatest extent, and I have to say, I 
 am mighty impressed with it.
  
  Now, the first of the mods actually comes with the game, and that is Counter Strike: Source. This 
 one doesn't cry out for a full length review on it, so I may keep it brief. The graphics of this 
 game is what you expect from a game like this, if you have it on the highest setting, I expect 
 that it will look absolutely gorgeous on your computer, but even at medium this game looks better 
 than its predecessors.
  
  The sound of the weapons are even more real than those in the full single-player game. I have to 
 say, I am mighty impressed how they have handeled porting this huge mod over to Half Life 2, and 
 doing a good job of it.
  
  The gameplay is also where this whole game is. This game takes advantage of tactics and thinking 
 over running and gunning, so if you're a runner and gunner, this is definetly most likely not for 
 you, and I am certain on that. First off, if you blindly run into a room without thinking, you 
 are most likely to be shot dead in a matter of seconds, luckily this game takes advantage of buying 
 things, and you can buy armor and such to keep you protected, I was really glad they included that 
 in this game, otherwise this would have became stale in a heartbeat.
  
  Now the last of the mods is Half Life 2: Deathmatch, and this is basically just Half Life 2 in 
 deathmatch, and you can expect lots of fun from that. When you use the gravity gun to its fullest 
 extent in this mode, you can basically turn the tide of a fight. I usually ran into people who 
 used the items in a map to block an entryway that leads into an important part of the map, which 
 I say was a good example of using strategy first.
  
  The map-making support for this mod is really amazing. You can see all sorts of great maps, and 
 in some servers, you can download them fast even on a slow PC. Of course, this mod does not come 
 without bugs. On a few servers, I experienced the items floating in mid-air, or falling through 
 the map, I can attest that it must've been the server, but this seemed to much like a glitch/bug 
 that I couldn't see past it. It actually took me out of the experience for a while, but you can 
 quickly get over that and have a good time none-the-less.
  
  The learning curve of these three games can be long for some people, and short for others. I am 
 still learning all the controls in Deathmatch and Counter Strike, but you should be able to get 
 into these games as soon as possible and start enjoying them.
  
  In the end, all of these modes makes Half Life 2 worth the $40-$55 it costs. I absolutely recommend 
 this game to anyone who can play it on medium graphics or higher, as this is a game that is worthy 
 of people buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoblinOnFire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  Here kitty-kitty-kitty. Oh, what a strange looking cat. WAAAAAA! 
  -The famous last words of Doctor Paul Heikmann; First victim of a Head Crab attack.
  
  
  
 HL2 is more than a game. Its a lifestyle. Its an adventure. Its a wet dream come true. 
  Quite frankly, after experiencing the intensity and all present atmosphere of Half-Life, I seriously 
 doubted that anyone could top that. I hoped, dreamed and wished for it, but never really believed. 
 Oh, ye of little faith!
  
  HL2 can best be described with one word: Classic! It really is a modern classic. From the moment 
 you set foot on the train platform in City 17 you sense something is very, very good (Or wrong, 
 depending on how much in character you want to be) .
  
  The AI is wonderfully unpredictable, the scripted scenes add tension and flesh to the atmosphere. 
 Comments from passers-by and dialog you overhear as you traverse through the game really makes 
 you want to stand up for these guys and make a stand.
  
  The world according to Gordon
  HL2 is the first game that had me staring at the walls. Which made me an easy target for the combine 
 in the later levels, but still: It was amazing! You just cant have enough details.
  
  G-Man
  The G-Man freaked me out in the first game. This time around I kept from being freaked, 
 but I still got a feeling he's hiding something from me. Maybe he's seeing someone else?
  Another Scientist, maybe? A really smart one? I don't think I can take that kind of rejection.
 
  His role in the story is an essential one: Without the G-man the HL2 story would be nothing else 
 than a remake of "Mars attacks". X-files, you say! Lose the sigaret, and voila!
  
  Alix
  Is it just I, or does anyone else wish they could be Gordon Freeman for a day, just to have a go 
 at the daughter of the scientist? Talk about putting pixels to good use. You cant say no to that 
 cutie. Also, for sake of the game, Alix works: Her AI is clever enough not to act like a robot 
 most of the time. She seldom gets in you way, and she can kick some Com-behind of her own. Whats 
 not to love?
  
  The story so far
  In short: its short. And it screams for a sequel. (Or was that I?) You get the feeling its a 
 good first chapter in an epic adventure. When you reach the end of the game, you just dont want 
 to stop! Come on, please! Just one more! Please? You find yourself sitting through the end credits 
 just to see if theres something on the other side. A bonus level, perhaps?
  The story lays out a huge universe, but you see only glimpses of it during the game. Im sure there 
 can be written novels set in this universe. 
  
  Conclusive commentary. I really feel like reticulating the splines now.
  HL2 is a real achievement. 
 I take my hat of to the whole Valve team. I really and honestly love you! 
  
  But hey! Arent there any bad things to say about the game? I here you say.
  Of course there 
 are bad things here! But why bother with them
  Im in such a good mood that I refuse to ruin it with sour comments about glitches, bugs and repetitive 
 game play. Overall its a really good game. Graphics, story, sound, AI, Alix, the lot.
  
  After all, its just a game! Its a whole world out there, waiting to be explored. Go out and feel 
 the sun on you face. Take of you shoes and feel the grass between you toes. Smell the roses along 
 the way! Never forget to reload, though. And beware of the Head Crabs. They jump!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Half Life was a revolutionary game not only because it was probably the first FPS with a truly 
 cohesive and intelligent storyline, but also because it completely immersed players in the game. 
 There were no cinematics, no speech from the character, and no views of him either. Not only that, 
 but much of the game had a sort of claustrophobic, eerie, desperate feel to it. It was spectacularly 
 violent, exciting, and fun and has become synonymous with the first-person shooter genre. It was 
 probably the most influential game to come out after Doom.
  
  So, when Half Life 2 was announced, I, along with many others, was understandably very excited. 
 I saw a few previews for the game and gaped at the incredibly realistic graphics, the interesting 
 locales, the amazing physics, and of course the Gravity Gun. I saw some familiar faces (headcrabs 
 and zombies) and some new ones (the Combine) and I felt that I could not wait for this game to 
 be released. But, unfortunately, because of some stupid hacker, I was forced to wait for years. 
 As time went on, games began to get more and more advanced. By the time the game was only a month 
 or two away, the graphics still seemed remarkable, but the gameplay seemed familiar and I worried 
 that HL2 would not be as good as its predecessor...
  
  Thank God my fears didn't become reality.
  
  Half Life 2 is not a familiar run-of-the-mill 
 shooter that will soon be forgotten. I feel that Half Life 2 more than lives up to its predecessor's 
 name - in fact, it surpasses it. I feel that Half Life 2 is the greatest game of all time. Forget 
 Gamespot's 9.2, IGN's 9.7, even PC Gamer's 9.8. I think that this game fully deserves nothing short 
 of a 10.0. Half Life 2 is perfect - I can find in it no flaw anywhere and I don't think you will 
 either.
  
  First things first -- the graphics. Lots of games gain or lose hype because of this very aspect. 
 Half Life 2 got a lot of attention because of the graphics. This is because Half Life 2 looks amazing. 
 Everything from the character models to the ground Gordon Freeman walks on looks almost like the 
 real thing. Even before graphical improvements (e. g. FakeFactory's mods, which I highly recommend) , 
 this game surpasses all previous achievements in the graphical department. One of the most impressive 
 things about the graphics is the advanced facial features you'll see in the game. For the first 
 time in a game, a character's personality and emotions can be seen just by looking at his or her 
 face.
  
  Physics go hand in hand with graphics and Half Life 2's graphics are a perfect match for the Source 
 engine - Valve's amazing physics engine. The source engine adds depth to this game that could never 
 have been seen before. Characters fall to their deaths realistically, objects float in water, boards 
 can be broken into tiny bits... it's all nothing short of incredible. With the power of Half Life 
 2's visuals and its graphics, this game makes a strong showcase for what we can do in the next 
 generation of gaming.
  
  Also critical to a game's success is the audio. Even if some gamer's don't recognize its importance, 
 audio can make or break a game. In HL2's case, it might not make it, but it certainly doesn't break 
 it. The sound effects in this game are amazing and sound pretty much like real. The guns all pack 
 a considerable punch and explosions echo into the distance. The cries of dying enemy soldiers mixed 
 with the screech of burrowing aliens is certainly entertaining. The voice acting also impresses. 
 Since Half Life and Half Life 2 are very focused on the storyline, great voice acting is crucial. 
 Luckily, Valve has found an extremely talented team of voice actors and actresses who give the 
 story feeling.
  
  And speaking of story, Half Life 2 has a great one. But before I go into any detail about HL2's 
 storyline, I should probably tell you about Half Life's story. I'll keep if brief. For a very in-depth 
 description of Half Life, check out Wikipedia.
  
  In Half Life, you play as a theoretical physicist in his mid-twenties named Gordon Freeman. Gordon 
 works at a huge underground laboratory in New Mexico called the Black Mesa Research Facility. At 
 the beginning of the game, Gordon takes part in an experiment which goes horribly wrong and ends 
 up sending aliens to the facility. Throughout the game, you're trying to get out of the facility.
 
  
  At the end of the game, after defeating the alien mastermind, Gordon is greeted by a man known 
 only as the G-Man who says that he's been watching Gordon for some time. He then offers Gordon 
 a job (what this job entails remains a mystery) . You are given the 'choice' to accept or decline, 
 but it turns out that Gordon has no choice in the matter at all.
  
  At the start of Half Life 2, Gordon is once again greeted by the G-Man, this time in a strange 
 hallucination. This suggests that Gordon is now working for the G-Man. When Gordon wakes up, he 
 finds himself on a train headed for 'City 17'. When you get off the train, you slowly realize that 
 the world is now under the control of an alien race known as the Combine. The Combine has chosen 
 Dr. Breen (Black Mesa's administrator) to be their ambassador who keeps the humans under control. 
 The world Gordon is put in is reminiscent of Orwell's 1984.
  
  Soon, Gordon finds a friend who used to work as a security guard at Black Mesa named Barney Calhoun. 
 Calhoun puts Gordon in touch with an ex-Black Mesa scientists named Dr. Kleiner. At this point, 
 Gordon's objective is to meet up with Dr. Kleiner. When he does, he meets Alyx Vance, a woman in 
 her twenties who is the daughter of one of the Black Mesa survivors named Eli Vance. At this point, 
 Gordon has basically joined an underground resistance trying to stop the Combine.
  
  Eventually, Gordon's objective becomes to take down Dr. Breen and loosen the Combine's grasp on 
 humanity. There's much more to the story (plenty of mysteries that will hopefully be explained 
 in further expansions and sequels) , but I don't want to give anything away.
  
  Now I can finally talk about the gameplay. The shooter portion of Half Life 2 is better than Halo. 
 Gordon is never pitted against very many enemies at a time, but he is pretty vulnerable and so 
 you're often tense and on-edge. You're usually pitted against Combine soldiers who wield pistols, 
 sub-machine guns, shotguns, and more. These enemies are very smart and will take cover, call for 
 help, and occasionally retreat if wounded or outnumbered. In addition, at times Gordon will have 
 to take on huge Combine machines such as gunships and bio-mechanical creatures known as Striders. 
 There are also plenty of aliens that provide quite a challenge. The selection of weapons in HL2 
 keeps the shooting interesting and fun.
  
  But one of the great things about HL2 is that there is also an aspect of puzzle-solving. Throughout 
 the game, Gordon will encounter several obstacles that require a bit of brainpower to overcome. 
 This effectively breaks up the action while keeping the game interesting.
  
  The game lasts for a while (10-15 hours) and is pretty difficult, but even after you finish the 
 game there is still plenty to do. For one thing, mod-makers have gone crazy with this game and 
 created all sorts of modifications (I recommend Substance and Garry's Mod) that will keep the game 
 fresh. The game also comes with Counter Strike: Source and Half Life: Deathmatch. HL: Deathmatch 
 is exactly what it says it is - a pure chaotic free-for-all. Counter Strike: Source is even better. 
 Counter Strike is basically a Team Deathmatch, but with a twist. It pits terrorists against counter-terrorists 
 and at the start of each round, players can buy weapons and other items. If you survive a round 
 and kill lots of people, you earn more money. Counter Strike: Source alone will eat up plenty of 
 your weekends. Combined with Half Life 2, Half Life: Deathmatch, and all of the available mods, 
 this is a game you will not soon get tired of.
  
  Half Life was a revolutionary game and Half Life 2 is even better, not because it revolutionizes 
 the genre, but because it takes everything good about it and improves it. Half Life 2 has a great 
 story, great graphics, great audio, and gameplay that no gamer should miss. It is an amazing achievement 
 that will go down in history as one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_critic
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2005 3:14 am PT
Review:  2004. What a great year for gaming we had not one but 3 major game releases: Half-Life 2, Halo 
 2 and Doom 3 I have purchased all of these games and now that 2004 is over there is one game I 
 keep coming back too... Half-Life 2.
  
  Now dont get me wrong Halo 2 & Doom 3 are great games but personaly I believe that Half-Life 2 
 surpasses them by leaps and bounds. How should I explain what makes this game so great I could 
 talk about the Graphics... or I could talk about the Sound... but I believe your probably more interested 
 about the Gameplay of this title so here it goes.
  
  Half-Life 2's gameplay is extremely varied there are Driving levels, Shooting levels, Adventure 
 levels, Puzzle levels, there are variations on some of those elements too. Probably one of my favorite 
 aspects of Half-Life 2 is its absolutely marvelous physics system (also to be noted its supposed 
 to be the most advanced at this time) which you'll be having fun with for quite awhile.
  
  The graphics in Half-Life 2 are the best I have ever seen (I know Doom 3 is considered to have 
 the best I dissagree) the character models are absolutely remarkable their faces have the most 
 animations of any other game out their and the bodies have a wide array of movements, they also 
 are powered with the source engine meaning they will ragdoll when they die which is always fun 
 to play around with.
  
  The sound is also top-notch with great VO (voice acting) and sound effects including great ambient 
 noise effects.
  
  Rating Breakdown
  -----------------------
  
  Gameplay: [10/10] Great, varied gameplay elements and a spectacular physics system thats an extreme 
 joy to fool around with and a great story.
  
  Graphics: [10/10] Excellent, good use of lighting, remarkable facial animations and body movements 
 and enviroments.
  
  Sound: [10/10] Also great, the dialogue is well performed and entertaining and sometimes funny 
 heres an example "Im a little behind on my beating quota -Barney". The rest of the sound is great 
 also like the ambient effects and other effects.
  
  Value: [10/10] Well worth your money in every way.
  
  Final Verdict
  ----------------
  
 
  If you are a fan of shooters, adventure, driving, or the like you'll love this game I give it a 
 perfect 10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSora69
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 18, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, the sequel to the greatest PC game ever made, is here at last. And I can tell you, 
 the hype is strong with this one. So does it live up to the hype? Of course it does.
  
  Gameplay: Half-Life 2 puts you back in the shoes of Gordon Freeman after untold years after he 
 unleashed an alien onslaught on the world in a rushed physics experiment. In the beginning of the 
 game, you start out in City 17, a city under the rule of the Combine, one of the alien races released 
 in the 1st game. Your old administrator (or boss) has made a deal with the Combine, and remains 
 the only human with real power in the world. The plot is great and well-written, and the game itself 
 is very well-paced. The enemies you will face are smart, but not as revolutionary as the original 
 Half-Life was. The ambience in the world you find yourself in is immersive and very believable. 
 And the game is filled with memorable characters you won't soon forget.
  
  Graphics: Many games have come close to looking like real-life, but Half-Life 2 triumphs over all 
 of them. Everyday, I go outside and say "Hey, that doesn't look too different from a house I saw 
 in HL2." The character models, water effects, and environments are all believable and it's hard 
 to believe graphics this good are possible this generation.
  
  Sound: Ah, the only part of the game I found suiting less than a 10, I'm sorry, but I'm going to 
 be frank, the music leaves a lot to be desired. But the sound effects are beautiful, bullets hitting 
 wood and water, screams of enemies, voiceovers are all treats that you will hear in this game.
 
  
  Value: With such a masterful game, coming with a copy of Counter-Strike: Source (which you can play 
 forever) and a huge assortment of mods coming, this game is well worth your $55.
  
  Half-Life 2 is an amazing game and shouldn't be missed by anyone, it doesn't require a spectacular 
 PC, so a teeny upgrade is worth this beautiful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OutComeTheWolfs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The long anticipated release of the sequel to what many consider the greatest game of all time 
 has arrived, and just before the masses began to riot in the streets. And I can say, without hesitation 
 it was well worth the wait. In traditional sequel fashion you take on the role of the prior games, 
 now famous hero, Dr. Gordon Freeman. The introduction begins with a hauntingly familiar face, that 
 of The G-Man whose creepy smirk and dead set eyes shine with a new eeriness thanks to the games 
 cutting edge graphics engine. You are then taken to a desolate looking train anchored in an even 
 more disparaged town. Soon after, all hell breaks loose, against you. You are forced to battle 
 against an ever growing population of enemies as you make your escape from the 1984-esque City 
 17.
  
  The first thing you will notice upon entering the game, is the pure visual nirvana. No game has 
 ever realized a living, breathing world such as the one in HL2. From your first glimpse of the 
 G-Man to the end of the game, a sense of overwhelming immersion draws you in, accented perfectly 
 by the intricate, life-like characters. Every emotion, every smile, every fearful shiver given 
 off by these extremely life-like NPC's conveys an emotion every bit as powerful as those found 
 in the most high budget Hollywood films. Not only that, but the environments are awe inspiring. 
 The buildings tower over you menacingly, the water flows so realistically you feel as though you 
 can drink it, the textures are crisp and varied and the special effects will leave you speechless. 
 It's truly a sight to behold. And all of this, displays to near perfection, even on an average 
 computer. But graphics are meaningless without good gameplay. Doom3 showed us that. Fear not, however. 
 HL2 is every bit as engrossing as the original, and more so. While the believably constructed world 
 is the main attraction, the game keeps a wonderfully varied pace. Doing away with your enemies 
 has never felt so invigorating, especially due to the state of the art physics engine. Every action 
 in real life is the same in half life. Wood floats, cinder blocks sink, dead bodies flail as they 
 should and every thing can be manipulated in various ways. You could feasibly spend hours just 
 toying with the world around you, and stay entertained.
  
  Valve knew they had something special with the physics of HL2, and they decided, why not make it 
 into a gun? The aptly named Gravity Gun gives you the ability to toy with the physics to your heart's 
 content, and it even proves extremely useful throughout the coarse of the game. You can grab and 
 shoot barrels planks of wood or anything else you come across that's light enough. In fact, while 
 you hold an item with the GG it allows it to act as a shield protecting the appropriate area of 
 your body from the harm of the bullets whizzing by. All these attributes come together to make 
 an invigorating experience. You have an almost endless number of ways to deal with all of the baddies 
 the game throws your way through its multiple chapters of gameplay. And along the way you receive 
 help from a number of different NPC's. While the majority of such interactions prove beneficial 
 there are a few times when you will just want to be left alone. Human NPC's have the nasty habit 
 of getting in the way and causing more harm than good. In crowded corridors they tend to group 
 up behind you, making it hard to get back when explosives and volleys of bullets are launched your 
 way, which can result in numerous unnecessary deaths. Another new addition to the franchise is 
 the ability to use a number of vehicles. Hoverboats, Buggies and such are available to drive through 
 out specific point of HL2, and control brilliantly.
  
  As in the original the story plays an important role. And while its basically a simple tale, it 
 is carried well by character dialogue and changes in the environments around you. In addition the 
 protagonists themselves give us a sense of empathy and connection few games have ever managed to 
 deliver, while the antagonists give us a comparable sense of detest and loathing. As in the original, 
 there are no true "cut scenes". Every sequence that drives the story happens in real time with 
 you at the controls, which helps to further the cinematic effect of the game. It all comes together 
 well enough to keep you more than intrigued until the amazing, albeit inconclusive, end. The sound 
 in HL2 is just as stunning as the rest of the game. While underwater, bullets whiz past you with 
 an uncomfortably realistic zing. While out in open environments the ambient sounds give that added 
 realism to the game. And almost each and every voice actor gives a compelling and believable performance. 
 On the other hand the dramatic score of the game is dampened by its common use and slight repetition. 
 While it does contribute to the game nicely, you'll find that there are very few instrumentals 
 to be heard, and the ones there, are used often. But this is a very minor complaint that doesn't 
 detract from the overall experience.
  
  With all it has going for it, one should not find it surprising that there are some down sides. 
 Registering with Steam is required to play the game (therefore an internet connection is also required) 
 , which wouldn't be such a bad thing if not for the fact that it can be a real pain to register. 
 Servers are sometimes clogged and it can be hard to get it all set up. When I got HL2 on the first 
 day it was released it took me an entire five hours to get to a point where I could actually play. 
 But if you have waited this long to pick up a copy, rest assured this problem has diminished substantially. 
 But this brings us to another issue. Every time you want to play the game you have to either sign 
 on to Steam or wait for the computer to realize its unable to connect. There are also ingame problems. 
 Some times NPC's can become glitchy and shaky almost at random, which serves to hurt the realism 
 of the game. Also, certain things have been overlooked, such as water's inability to extinguish 
 fire, and the fact that many normally flammable things are fire proof. In addition there are some 
 points in the game that can get a bit repetitive or frustrating, but they are few and far between. 
 In the grand scheme of things these are minor problems, that should not deter you in any way from 
 experiencing what could be the greatest game of its generation. I wish that I could describe this 
 game in all it's glory to you, but in doing so I would not only take up weeks of my life, I would 
 also ruin some of the more epic points of the game, so I will just end by saying this: Who ever 
 you are, what ever type of gamer, I can guarantee you that you will find something to absolutely 
 love in this sublime work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadafeig
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  When Half Life came out it was a revolutionary game and had followers of mods and is still even 
 played today. But when they announced Half life 2 the anticipation was ridiculous, but the anticipation 
 was fine because Half Life 2 delivers on almost every end.
  
  In Half Life 2 you play as a man named Gordon, who is in City 17 fighting through the evil combine 
 and other nasty creatures. To make sure the story line is fresh Half Life 2 has an amazing new 
 physics engine that really is cool when put int practice and helps with the story. Although Half 
 Life 2's gameplay is good you can't help feel some parts were just taken directly from Half Life. 
 That said the story is very good and almost everything makes since. The ending to the game has 
 been heavily criticized because of its cliff hanger ending. If you think about it though cliff 
 hanger endings just want you to keep you coming back for the next game in the series. Overall the 
 Story although not as groundbreaking as the original Half Life still uses its unbelievable physics 
 and good gameplay to create a great experience.
  
  Once you finish with Half Life 2's single player it has Multiplayer being Counter Strike Source 
 and Half Life 2 deathmatch. Even though Counter Strike is a classic CS: S is just revamped graphics 
 of it. The real fun comes in Half Life 2 deathmatch where you can use Half Life 2' s gravity gun 
 which just displays the amazing physics of the game and is just a lot of fun to use, and besides 
 just the gravity gun the gameplay is solid in the deathmatch but is set apart with all the mods 
 that are being developed which just adds more replay value to an already large game.
  
  The graphics also deserve mentioning, the facial models are just beautiful and the environment 
 really grabs you int othe experience, although their not as good as Doom 3's.
  
  I did notice some technical issues though with the graphics sometimes looking blocky and lag can 
 also be very annoying. But these problems don't happen to often and Half Life 2 certainly overcomes 
 thes faults easily. Some people might think it isn't original enough or its only an ok game with 
 good physics but to describe Half Life 2 below anything other than amazing would be a horrible 
 misconception to a truly great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2005 12:44 am PT
Review:  When the first Half-Life came out it blew gamers away  not because there was any one feature of 
 the game was amazing but rather that every aspect was done right. Half-Life 2 builds on this and 
 literally improves on all facets of its predecessor from graphics, gameplay, writing, to overall 
 production values.
  
  You start off the game awoken by the mysterious G-man and find yourself with some dej-vu as you 
 approach City 17 on a train. Right away you get immersed into the atmosphere of a city under a 
 brutal rule replete with armed unforgiving guards and a large video screen with the leader making 
 a speech. Apparently your last trip to Xen did some damage. What struck me the most was the little 
 details in the writing and presentation; for example, after clearing the gates (very minor spoiler) 
 you are instructed to follow one of the combine soldiers down a hall, if you look through one of 
 the peep-holes you see an interrogation occurring but the combine soldier walks up to the door 
 and abruptly shuts the peep-hole (end spoiler) . It is the little nuances in the writing that play 
 a major role in immersing you into the game  and there are lots of these instances. In addition, 
 there is the combat which youll come across soon enough. There is the perfect combination of good 
 AI and scripted events to keep you enthralled and often sequences will play out leaving you dumbfounded, 
 How did that happen [?] , or This is unbelievable. There are so many events like that it is impossible 
 to keep track. (Another minor spoiler) For an example, there is one instance where you are running 
 down a hall and see a table with a gun, you run to grab the gun knock over the table only to use 
 it as shield to approaching combine (end spoiler) .
  
  The puzzles are probably the most intuitive Ive seen in recent memory. Also, with the gravity 
 gun and the advanced physics engine, the puzzles have a unique twist to them relative to other 
 shooters. Moreover, there might be some puzzles in which there may be more than one solution such 
 as building a bridge with the gravity gun or relying on your jumping skills.
  
  I have already mentioned the physics system and I must add that the Source engine has the best 
 physics I have seen to date (on a side note check out Garys mod to test its abilities) . The graphics 
 are superb and are only rivalled by Doom 3s graphics. Valve has also done an excellent job in 
 showcasing the Source engine by including different types of areas including tight congested areas 
 and vast open areas  which also varies the gameplay. The soundtrack was fantastic and had the 
 right electronic fell without overdoing it. However, the weapon sounds seem almost identical to 
 that of the original Half-Life (which is good, but I would have liked to see a little more work 
 done to it) .
  
  When Half-Life 2 first shipped it came only with Counter-Strike: Source. CS: Source is an updated 
 version of the vastly popular mod Counter-Strike and it does a good job of an overdue graphics 
 renewal. Now, however, there is Half-Life 2: Deathmatch. With maps being made all the time and 
 the official map-making contests, value only keep being added as more content gets released. More 
 mods are coming out and some which have already gained popularity such as Garys Mod and the CTF 
 mod. Therefore in addition to a fantastic single-player game, you get access to a large mod community 
 that will only increase the longevity of this title much like the original.
  
  Overall, it is the little details, sequences, and puzzles that all add up in terms of production 
 values to create the best FPS experience available. The combat wont disappoint either. The story 
 might leave a few questions but I thought I did a good job of leaving you with less information 
 for a sense of mystery and intrigue; moreover, it leaves room for an exciting sequel. As pure FPS 
 games go (not including first-person rpgs etc) this is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19923030556710661158582010183839-lordofmidnightx
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 12, 2005 3:00 am PT
Review:  When the original Half-Life first came out it's needless to say it blew everyone away. There 
 had not been a game that revolutionary in a while, arguably if ever, and it was an amazing product. 
 Everyone involved in that masterpiece should look back even today and be forever proud on what 
 they achieved. Like everyone I was looking SO forward to "Half-Life 2". Sure, waiting for it was 
 a pain, but you just knew that Valve was going to make sure everything was perfect before they 
 released it. You just knew it and that made all the waiting seem to go by smoother.
  
  Enter "Half-Life 2" and you realize that they fumbled away the sequel to perhaps the greatest game 
 ever. It's plain and simple folks... "HL2" is a major letdown of epic proportions.
  
  The problems started with the install and the dreaded Steam. Perhaps they should have changed the 
 name to another bodily gas we all know because Steam stinks. My personal experience was seeing 
 it freeze and lock up my computer twice before it finally worked. I have heard even worse stories 
 about this and it was an ominous foreboding of what was to come in this package. The whole process 
 was pointless, frustrating, slow, and for something so revolutionary it was beyond archaic. Valve 
 and Steam should be lined up and slapped "Three Stooges" style for this authentication disaster. 
 The quiet responses to peoples frustrations didn't sit well with me either as if they knew what 
 they had created sucked and were just happy to know some poor should had already bought the game. 
 Money does seem to do that to people.
  
  The story was a bit weak and the whole thing of Gordon Freeman being stuck in his pocket dimension 
 was hardly original. I am assuming it was to throw the character into a state of shock as what 
 he had missed was revealed to him. To this real life person behind the keyboard it seemed cheap 
 and the G-man was ridiculous and almost comical. Please, somebody pull that guys plug "MISTER GOOORDOON 
 FREEEMAAAN". Groan...
  
  The Gravity Gun was a nice addition to the usual assortment of weapons you'd typically find in 
 this genre. Using it along the way to solve puzzles and such gave it a nice function. All the guns 
 sounded right and felt like they should, doing the damage they should inflict
  
  The battles with your opponents in the game are very well done and for once the combat helps carry 
 the story along from place to place. There are a lot of nice ways to kill your enemies and makes 
 fighting them just a lot of fun. The aliens are perhaps my biggest argument of inclusion. Why were 
 they there? For me it seemed like they were just thrown in to spice up the sci-fi aspect but they 
 were more annoying than anything else. 
  
  The vehicles that inhabit the game are a downer and don't seem to feel right either. They seem... 
 unnatural somehow as if someone said "Hey! We have to make sure we throw vehicles in because gamexyz 
 has them". Here's a note to game creators... if you are going to put vehicles in a game make sure 
 they look right, run right and feel like an extension of the operator. Don't just throw them in 
 just because everyone else is doing it.
  
  The squad combat was pretty terrible as the follower AI was about as poor as you can get. This 
 is not how characters that are supposed to fight with you and for you should act. Then you realize 
 that the only thing they are good for is perhaps taking some fire away from you. They have a nasty 
 habit of getting killed and leaving you on your own anyway.
  
  Graphics were perhaps the high point of "HL2" and were great but not the best around today. Still, 
 you had a feeling of real war going on and it carried that atmosphere. The ravaged buildings, the 
 facial expressions and character models, the Combine soldiers and explosions all helped bring that 
 aura of realism. As I said earlier, the graphics helped to pull you along in the story and visually 
 drive you forward. Lighting was okay bit certainly not as well as could have been pulled off. I 
 never really felt that I was in an all-immersive true 3D place. It felt like a painting, a very 
 detailed and rich one, but still a painting.
  
  This game really could have been the game of the year but it isn't even close. I wouldn't put this 
 game in that ranking or even in my top five. I've seen all the glowing reviews and awards this 
 product won and it makes me sick. It reminds me of the sheep being led to slaughter who never realize 
 that there are serious problems. The Steam authentication was both shameful and flawed and that 
 alone would keep me from buying another game that used it. The graphics and sound, while great, 
 are certainly not as good as what I expected and have seen before or since. The AI of your teammates 
 was brain dead and something they should have left out if they couldn't make them react properly. 
 Gordon Freeman was a name but his character certainly wasn't fleshed out anymore since we last 
 saw him. He had all those people talking to him but he never spoke back? That's not very realistic 
 when all hell was breaking loose. The story also should have been deeper and, although this was 
 an "action" game, the gang at Valve could have come up with something sharper. The last thing I 
 have to mention is the ending, which pretty much sucked. If it weren't for "Halo 2" this might 
 have been the worst in a while. The ending of "Half-Life" was pretty bad as well and it seems like 
 Valve can't decide on a proper way to finish a game. I guess we have to wait for "Half-Life 3" 
 for that. Or not... whatever. 
  
  
  "Half-Life 2" didn't nearly meet my expectations of what I was waiting for and just shows that 
 you can still release something mediocre no matter how much time you spend. Or how much modern 
 technology allows us to progress in the game genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadlord_923
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The highly anticipated sequal to, in my opinion, one of the best games in existance. Its graphics 
 have set it apart from the other FPS's and its beautifully styled gameplay has created an immersive 
 experience like no other. The entire game runs like a movie with the arrival on the subway at the 
 beginning and explosion of the portal at the end, but a great game like this is not without errors.
 
  
  Once again you assume the roll of Gordon Freeman, doctor and.......... lets say humanitarian. You 
 arrive to help a secret resistance overthrow the evil Combine's marshal law over City 17. This 
 leads him through countless battles with Combine soldiers, Headcrabs, Antlions and other enemies 
 that block your way as well as great puzzles and challenges that keep you guessing. With the help 
 of others Freeman must come to battle the Combine and unravel its secrets. 
  
  The game is visually stunning. Valve has created an amazing graphics system that has turned this 
 game into nothing short of a revolution in first person shooters. I quite enjoyed myself with this 
 game (sawing headcrab people in half was fun for a while) but I felt something missing near the 
 end. It came to an abrupt halt and I was left wanting more. Aswell I felt it had a lack of background 
 music. The sound effects were great but it would be great running away to some chase music. Overall 
 my experiences with this game aswell as Counter Strike: Source are enough to recomend this game 
 to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaylandM2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  On the surface, the idea of a video game starring a bespectacled physicist named Gordon couldnt 
 possibly sound less appealing, but Valve Softwares 1998 debut, Half-Life, was a revolutionary 
 first-person shooter despite its unlikely hero.
  
  A very long six years later, Gordon Freeman returns in Half-Life 2, a sequel that once again sets 
 the standard for its genre. A radical reinvention of the original it isnt, but HL2 builds substantially 
 on its foundation with nearly flawless results. 
  
  The game opens in City 17, a concentration camp for humans established by alien Combine forces, 
 which have taken over Earth in the aftermath of the Black Mesa Research Facility disaster. Gordon 
 is soon thrust into a whirlwind chase that leads him through expansive environments  from an antlion-infested 
 desert to an eerie, abandoned prison  all displayed in stunning detail. This is the kind of game 
 thats worth upgrading your PC for. 
  
  All of the action is seen through Freemans eyes  that means no lengthy text or cinema scenes 
 to disrupt the highly-immersive experience. Instead, non-player characters real-time dialogue 
 seamlessly advances the story.
  
  Elements of different genres are also incorporated into HL2. Gordon pilots an airboat and and even 
 commands a pack of antlions using bug bait. These elements are woven together with finesse, so 
 that there are no driving or on foot levels, but one unified experience with great breadth. 
 
  
  One of the greatest technological achievements of HL2 is its realistic physics engine. Moving objects 
 is often the key to the games puzzles, which are surprisingly plausible, and the innovative gravity 
 gun emphasizes that. This handy gadget can move wrecked cars that block your path, stack boxes 
 for climbing or hurl objects like explosive barrels or saw blades at enemies. HL2 encourages players 
 to be creative and experiment with manipulating their surroundings in both puzzle-solving and tactical 
 situations. 
  
  Although HL2 does not have a proper multiplayer mode, a revamped version of Counter-Strike is packaged 
 with the game  a nice addition to a one-player game so good that it doesnt really need a multiplayer 
 mode. 
  
  Valves attention to detail is what really makes HL2 a masterpiece. Everything that this game does, 
 it does right, making it thrilling and refreshing  a must-have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dynamonic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The summary basically says it all, Half-Life 2 is truly better than the original.
  A lot of people will avoid Half-Life 2 because of Steam. Which can be annoying to start off with. 
 Yes, you need an internet connection to run Steam and Half-Life 2 and yes, it is recommended that 
 you use broadband. Especially if you don't already have a Steam account. On dial- up, it will take 
 a few hours to install, unlock and register Half-Life 2 and get the updates automatically when 
 you first start the game, but on broadband, it takes a maximum of 30 minutes ( For me anyway) . 
 It is truly worth the wait. Anyway, Steam aside, let's talk about the game.
  
  Story
  
  Following on from Half-Life, the game starts off with the G-man talking about hard to understand 
 topics, assuming you accepted the G-man's offer in the original. You then end up in a train station 
 in City 17, you notice that your old Black Mesa administrator runs City 17 under martial law. The 
 story is unclear at first and it only starts to develop when you realise the full extent of his 
 law. And you, along with lovely companion, Alex Valance try to sort out Dr. Breen. I am not going 
 to spoil the story for you apart from the fact that there are huge street fights towards the end 
 of the game with your resistance fighters. One major disappointment with story is that the game 
 doesn't answer any questions apart from one. It answers the usual 'What happens next?' question 
 from the previous game but it doesn't answer any questions on topics about the G-Man's background 
 or anything to deep and at times it does seem like a mindless shooter.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is quite simply one of the most realistic types i have ever seen in anygame. All the 
 animations seem so real and what the 'Source' engine has allowed the game to do seems impossible. 
 To start off with. the physics used in the game are awesome. And you only get to see them in full 
 use when you get the gravity gun a quarter of the way through the game. Each material responds 
 realistically with the force of bullets. Barrels topple over and roll down hills and wood hatters 
 realistically. You can chip glass in windows in location specific areas and matresses flop over 
 edges. And don't get me started on the 'ragdoll' deaths in the game. Civil protection respond to 
 the force of the bullet and die realistically like falling back against walls and sliding down 
 slopes and even flying acroos the screen at the throw of a grenade. It is highly amusing to play. 
 And the whole experience is made even better by the easy learning curve. If you are used to using 
 the W, A, S and D keys to moving around then you will have no problem navigating your way around 
 and even if you are used to using the arrow keys, there is no fighting to start off with so you 
 have plenty of time to practice.
  
  Graphics
  
  Again, these are the best graphics I have seen in any game. Realistic lighting with landscapes 
 bustling with life make it look very real and the true beauty comes out in the water locations. 
 Depending on the deepness of water, you will see great reflections and refractions. With ripples 
 when objects fall in and splashes depending on the size and weight of the object. You just need 
 to have a high end video card like the ATI Radeon 9700 and X800 or nVidia GeForces to see what 
 the game is capable of. To put it simply, you could get confused whether it is a video or game 
 you are playing.
  
  Sound
  
  Unlike most shooters, there isn't much of a soundtrack to this game, like in Half-Life. This may 
 seem bad but it is highly beneficial. It makes the game buld up tension and creates a real atmosphere 
 of the situation.
  The ' travels faster than sound' theory is used. When an explosion goes off in the distance. It 
 takes it's time to for you to hear it and it does echoe when it reaches you, depending on the environment. 
 An amazing atmosphere is created in the city centre in the final chapters as you here alarms and 
 artillery and gun fire in the distance, giving you the feel of war. It is just very real.
  
  Value
  
  My review probably could tell that it is worth more than what you pay for it. 
 If you have an amazing computer with high specs then you are in for a very good treat. Otherwise 
 you will be in for a bit of bother with a low-end PC. The difficulty is easy at first for shooter 
 fanatics but it does slowly get harder. Especially when you face the Striders in the streets towards 
 the end. You know you want to buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberFreak81
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is second to DOOM 3, for me. I still haven't beat the game, but its fun. 
  It is a highly addictive thrill ride, that has non-stop action. And it is fun to play. 
  Graphics 
 are great, although different than most games. A lot of people try to compare game graphics. I 
 just rate them by their own standards. it's not as scary as DOOM 3, as some people may say. Maybe 
 for them. But, this one is more about action, than horror. Multiplayer in both hilarious and fun 
 at the same time. As long as there are no grumpy groaners folk playing. I hate when people are 
 downers during a fun game. I hope this quick review is enough to convince you, LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  A few months back I wrote a review for Halo 2. My mistake in that review was that I've compared 
 it to Half LIfe 2. Half Life 2 pushes a far more emmersive gaming expierience. It's longer, better 
 looking, and a lot more fun.
  
  Half Life 2's entire game engine is beautiful. From every aspect of this game you know you're looking 
 at a marvel. The game has the most electrifiyng graphics. The havoc phyics make the game only seem 
 more realistic. Half Life 2 is challenging, it's linear single player is great and forces you to 
 think more than you would in Halo 2. While Halo 2 is a great game, the complexity of Half Life 
 2 makes it seem like garbage. Half Life 2 just shines on the PC. It's an amazing game that leaves 
 the gamer breathless. 
  
  While most may argue that Halo 2 has the supreme multiplayer, Half Life 2 comes equipt with Counter 
 Strike Source. A great game that uses the Half Life 2 engine to provide a solid multiplayer experience.
 
  
  Half Life 2 will be a game that will live in my memory for a while. It's fun to play, challenging, 
 and all in all a great game. This game was perfect to test my new machine. This ones a keeper, 
 I recomend to anyone who wants it, get a high performance PC, and you'll truly enjoy Half Life 
 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomanders91
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is so overated, it has brilliant graphics but crap gameplay.
  
  gameplay: terrible gameplay, its not original, very boring gave up half way through, it is such 
 a let down because half life 1 was amazing, this is just boring with a crap story and bad A. I. 
 you have to believe me, people just say its brilliant because they have been waiting for it for 
 so long its not!
  
  graphics: the strong point of the game, everything about the graphics are good, except some textures 
 in the enviroment, not as good as far crys but still amazing.
  
  sound: another strong aspect of the game, good weapon sounds, people sound good, everything is 
 good in this department.
  
  value: i gave before i complted it its so bad, but i compleeted it eventully because my friend 
 says it had a good ending but it didnt!
  
  overall this game sucks, but counter strike (the multilplayer) is amzing just get this for that 
 its so good, read my review and it well tell you 
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/counterstrikesource/reader_review. html? id=3464925 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcxnickxcx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok for those of you that do not own this game or have played this game let me indulge you. This 
 is one of those games that you wait for, a game that you dream about. This game has everything 
 that you want in it in more. It has a good storyline, good graphics, good AI, i mean i could go 
 on for ever. One thing I like about this game is that it isn't just a run and shoot game. There 
 are some parts in the game when you actually have to think about how to go on further. There are 
 also vehicles you ride in and its just an awesome game. However, this is one of those games that 
 you need a good graphics card for. This game also runs off of steam which requires and internet 
 connection. It kind of sucks but you can play the game without the cd. Half life 2 also comes with 
 counter strike source which is an unbelievably fun multiplayer game. Besides counter strike, half 
 life 2 also comes with Half Life Deathmatch which has everything thats in half life but you can 
 play online with other people, in a deathmatch. This is by far the best computer game... PERIOD 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitrousSquirrel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  The single player portion of Half-Life 2 is the game's strongest attribute. The single player is 
 a decent length but not the huge amount that was first thought. This is still one of the best single 
 player experiences of any game on any platform though and is not something for any video game fan 
 to pass up. The game starts with you arriving in City17, a human city controlled by the "Combine" 
 who have taken over earth, but it's more of a prison than a city with the way the humans are treated. 
 Early on in the game you start by being chased by the combine and it is at this point you will 
 start to become immersed in the game. As you progress through the story you learn of human resistance 
 efforts and meet up with some familiar faces from the first game. The single player is complete 
 with large scale fights and vehicular excursions, and of course puzzles which are what made the 
 first game so unique. With the source engine the puzzles are like nothing you will ever have done 
 before in a game, you may be putting heavy objects on the side a long piece of wood to create a 
 ramp or you may be placing air tanks under objects in water to have the object rise so you can 
 get use it as a bridge across. Things like this and the way the game plays out makes it feel like 
 more than just your average run and gun first person shooter. There is always a downside though 
 and the downside to the single player is that there is not a great deal of variety in the weapons 
 or enemies for the most part and the vehicle ride's just last too long and the fun dissipates after 
 just driving for an hour with only short stops in between to open the way to go and drive more. 
 These are not major problems though and don't take away from the complete experience enough to 
 count off for. There is one other problem though, and that's the ending. Which you will have to 
 find out on your own, but it will leave you wanting more.
  
  The multiplayer that shipped is a revamp of Counter-Strike, the extremely popular multiplayer mod 
 for the original Half-Life, aptly named Counter-Strike: Source. A team based game of Terrorist 
 against Counter-Terrorists with true to life weapons and a slew of maps. It does show it's age 
 unfortunately with only two game modes, a bombing mode and hostage rescue mode. If you are a fan 
 of the original Counter-Strike and still enjoy playing then this is a very good thing. However 
 if you are new to the Half-Life world or sick of playing Counter-Strike from years ago then you 
 will probably not be to happy with what you get. Since this is the same game for the most part. 
 At this moment there is less than the original since only nine of the maps have been brought over, 
 and there is is only one type of player model for each team, but it is likely thatmore will be 
 added in the future. This is what you get with the retail game but there are also many other mods, 
 which may or may not be brought over to Half-Life 2.
  
  The game shines in game play thanks to the source engine, which sports the most realistic physics 
 of any game to date. The gravity gun alone makes the game worth the $54.99 price tag, being able 
 to pick up barrels and crates, desks and chairs, or any other object you can find in the game and 
 launch them and even use them as weapons against enemies provides hours of joy. This definitely 
 sets a new standard for other games to now uphold. At one point in the game you can even pick up 
 a circular saw blade and launch it to cut an enemy in half. Toward the end of the game you are 
 able to pick up enemies and throw them right back at the squad they came from. The game just has 
 that perfect feel and is in every way deserving of the highest praise in the game play department. 
 Though I do wish that I was able to shoot my team mates since they have a knack for standing in 
 doorways or walking over laser "trip wires".
  
  The major thing that I seem to disagree on the most from other reviews that I have read are the 
 graphics. While very good they are not the jar dropping graphics that so many reviews make them 
 out to be. Now a few parts of the game are just drop dead gorgeous, I will say that. Then there 
 are some parts that look worse than all the other first person shooters out there. Maybe I'm being 
 too harsh on it but I just don't see the graphics being worth a ten like everyone else.
  
  The sound is the worst part about the game. The voice acting during conversations is fantastic 
 but the music and the lines that your allies that fight along side with you say arent quite as 
 impressive. The music is composed of out of place techno music that pulls you away from the game 
 and takes you out of that immersive environment, it just doesn't seem to fit with the style of 
 the game. Luckily the music does not come around that much and doesn't last for too long. The lines 
 that you allies say aren't poorly done they just are just repeated too much, I can't tell you how 
 many times I heard. "I'll follow you Dr. Freeman", "Hey look it's Gordon Freeman" or my personal 
 favorite the line "Watch out Dr. Freeman", after I throw a grenade. The voice acting during the 
 conversations in the game make up for a lot of that. They are just superbly done along with the 
 animation of the characters speaking, which really brings them to life.
  
  Value is a tricky one for a couple of reasons. There is a long single player game here but the 
 multiplayer is just the classic Counter-Strike that we all know and love. As fun as Counter-Strike 
 is, it is still in the end the same game that's been out for years, with the same game play, weapons, 
 less maps, and less player models, but with upgraded physics and graphics. If that was where it 
 stopped then the value would be lower than what I've given it, but there is a lot of promise in 
 the mod community and there are also more older mods being brought over like Day of Defeat, a world 
 war 2 mod. So with that hope of things to come not having a new multiplayer is not going to count 
 off as much, it's a shame that they did not create a new kind of multiplayer game to take advantage 
 of the full power of source though. There could have been something new and great here which would 
 bring the value way up, but there isn't. That is the biggest problem with the game, the other problems 
 are small and for the most part can be over looked. Such as the car and hover rides which get dull 
 pretty quick and the annoyance of having to run the game through steam, which feels the need to 
 not find my games half the time and make me log in and out until they appear. Only the hope of 
 something to come saves it from getting below a 9 or even an 8 here.
  
  If you've read to here you know that I like the game, a lot. Even with the things that I have a 
 problem with at the end of the day I enjoyed it to a large extent, enough so to give it a perfect 
 ten in my tilt score. It's an epic game with large scale exciting battles that everyone needs to 
 play at least once 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2005 4:37 am PT
Review:  I love Halflife. I love Halflife 2. The game looks fantastic, plays well, and still manages smooth, 
 movelike graphics despite the high quality of the 3d world. In almost every way, this is an improvement 
 on the original. I wanted to give it a 10.
  
  However, there is a fly in the ointment, a thorn on the rose. Steam. That's right, Steam. This 
 is the one thing that keeps me from completely loving this game. Steam slows down the start of 
 the game, requires that I run yet another background function to play, and otherwise acts as a 
 pain in my.... neck. What burns me most is the required updates every freakin' time I want to play, 
 updates that take 10 or more minutes to download, and for what? So I can play multiplayer? I don't 
 care about multiplayer, or being compatible. If I wanted multiplayer, I'd be playing Counterstrike 
 or Everquest. Give me the updates in a traditional FTP download format, let me decide what to install, 
 and let me get to be blasted game right away. I don't necessarily want the new update, and I DEEPLY 
 resent being forced to get it just to play a single player game.
  
  The Steam element of the game dropped my rating from a 10, to a 7. That's how much I hate Steam. 
 I hate it so much, I will not subject myself to more games with it in, no matter how good. Valve 
 can either dump the whole "We will tell you what you will download, dammit!" attitude, or lose 
 me as a future customer.
  
  Like I said, it's a great game, but the extras suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodhrp
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  There is just not that much about this game that can't be liked. Fans of the first Half-Life might 
 have a question mark as to how Gorden Freeman goes from flying in space with the G-man at the end 
 of the first game to living in a world that has been slowly destroyed. The animation is great, 
 many times I have spent a few extra min trying to get a good angle on 'ol girl panties. At some 
 points the game gets abit slow, but for that theres not many times you dont feel like you are always 
 in the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKombatant2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  5 years. 5 long years. It's finally here. Half-Life 2. I am a big FPS fan, and Half-Life 2 is the 
 best single player FPS I've ever played. The graphics, gameplay, sound, everything about this game 
 is simply stunning. A. I. is intelligent, physics are awesome, and the weapons are just awesome. 
 The gravity gun is the best weapon in a shooter ever. I spent hours just playing around with it. 
 Also, Half- Life 2 comes with Counter Strike: Source, which is an amazing multiplayer FPS. It's 
 too bad HL2 doesn't come with a multiplayer based on the single player portion. There is one to 
 download, but the lag is horrid, and the gravity gun is not as responsive as in the single player, 
 so fragging your friends with a toilet isn't as fun as it should be. Overall, if you are a shooter 
 fan, or just a PC game fan in general, you should definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quatloo
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Fun Game. 
  Long Game. 
  Good Weapons. 
  Annoying fellow-undergrounders
  I kept saying, "Get out of my way!!!!"
  I don't mind a cliffhanger, but you could have 
  developed 
 the denouement first and then have 
  the cliffhanger . The Denouement (the unraveling) is 
  the stuff after the climax where the dust settles 
  and we see a few results of winning the game.
 
  It was a very unsatisfying ending. Picture 
  Star Wars without them getting the medals. 
  This game is worth playing if only for the Gravity 
  Gun. It's a longer game than I had expected. 
 It's 
  worth the money. System Shock II is better in my 
  opinion because of the atmosphere and story line 
  but this game was hard to stop playing. The 
 last part 
  of the game was too easy. It would have been nice 
  to see some special enemies near the end, but I guess 
  they were rushed. I look forward to the 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Snake56
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Gabes Baby Once Again Comes Screaming Into This World
  
  When the original Half Life was released for the PC back in 1998 it blew everyone who played it 
 away. The game was praised for being the total package and won numerous games of the year awards. 
 Therefore, when the sequel was announced in 2003 people became very excited about the return of 
 Gordon Freeman. Half Life 2 practically stole E3 that year and was scheduled to be released in 
 September of that year, but life can torture. The games source code was stolen from Valve and 
 pirated copies of the game began popping up all over the internet. Valve delayed the game for over 
 a year, but now it is here and it is good. Very good.
  
  The game opens up with the mysterious G-Man telling Gordon to wake up. Gordon is on a train that 
 is destined for City 17. A city where Big Brother is watching you at every turn and basic rights 
 are prohibited. Gordon soon meets up with an underground resistance who revere him as being the 
 hero of Black Mesa and from there the game takes off. The first half of the game is very slow and 
 with the establishment of characters and story, the action is kept at a tame level. The first half, 
 although good had me a little worried about what the rest of the game would be like and I was wondering 
 if it would bog down to the point of no return, but I was very wrong. The 2nd half of the game 
 is absolutely amazing and filled with not only engaging story, but incredibly action that kept 
 me wanting to play more. My only complaint is that just like Halo 2; the ending in Half Life 2 
 is abrupt and leaves the player with a feeling like they are playing a small chapter in a much 
 larger series.
  
  The gameplay in Half Life 2 is breathtaking to say the least. Youll be doing a variety of thing 
 like driving around in boats and cars while trying to solve puzzles to get you to the next area. 
 The physics engine in Half Life 2 really steals the show and will put a grin on your face more 
 than once. Shooting out the supporting boards on a bridge and watching you enemies fall to their 
 deaths will never get old. The Gravity Gun is a weapon you get early on and it is basically a tool 
 for showing off this amazing physics engine. You can pick up an explosive barrel and hurl is at 
 an enemy and watch him go flying back. Sometimes other explosive barrels will catch on fire, causing 
 a bigger explosion that could endanger Gordon. The feel of being in a real world really helps the 
 gameplay and some moments will make you echo a Neo sized whoa.
  
  Half Life 2 is an amazing achievement for graphic design on the PC. The game is drop dead gorgeous 
 and the physics as previously mentioned are breathtaking. Even though the game was delayed for 
 a year, it still looks like a champ. Every texture looks smooth and crisp. There is detail in every 
 facet of the world, such as scratches on a jug lying on the road or splintered wood on an old dock. 
 Your enemies look and move like you think a real person should and the world they inhabit is vibrant 
 with color. The facial animation in Half Life 2 is simply amazing. Characters look like real people 
 and your able to tell what they are think by there expression. Sorrow, fear and excitement are 
 displayed to a tee and the player begins to feel a human attachment to the NPCs. Although some 
 people might argue that Doom 3 looks better, trust me, there is no better looking game on the market 
 right now. Doom 3 had impressive shadow and lighting effects, but the world was mostly gray and 
 bland, but in Half Life 2 the world is like a giant fruit salad. The frame rate on my PC was good, 
 but I did experience some chugging when the sparks really started to fly. The problem was fixed 
 by turning some of the settings off and even after I turned them off the game still looked amazing. 
 If you have a fast enough PC than this game will immerse every visual sense in your body and even 
 if your PC is a little slower, it will still run and look decent.
  
  The sound in Half Life 2 is superb. The guns sound just as powerful as you would expect them to, 
 unlike Doom3s pea shooter gunshots. It is impressive when you hear the little things, like soldiers 
 chattering to each other before they attack and zombies climbing up a pipe, making a loud clanking 
 sound. Watching the many in game cut scenes that involve more than one person are very entertaining 
 because the characters look like they are full of life and everything they say sounds unscripted 
 and natural. The game is short on music, but the few songs that are in the game, are all pretty 
 sub par. When the action begins to heat up there will sometimes be a techno like track playing 
 the background to get your adrenaline flowing, and although annoying, it does the job. The physics 
 engine and the sound really complement each other to make one of the greatest PC experiences ever.
 
  
  Half Life 2 comes with an updated version of Counterstrike running off the Source engine. If you 
 have been living under a rock and have yet to hear about Counter Strike, sit back as I fill you 
 in. Two teams, one terrorist, another counter terrorist, vie for supremacy in fast paced rounds. 
 Sounds fairly vanilla, but after you start playing, youll realize how tactical and strategic the 
 game really is. Your success should be taken seriously because it will dictate your presence in 
 the next round. When you win a round you get money that can be used to buy new weapons and equipment. 
 More money means more weapons and more weapons will usually mean victory. Some old favorites like 
 Dust return, along with a slew of new maps that add to an already great selection. Having one of 
 the best multiplayer games ever made included with one of the greatest single player games ever 
 made means  well you do the math.
  
  Although the game starts off slow and the ending will leave you wanting more dont hesitate to 
 buy this game. The single player is an engaging experience to say the least and the multiplayer 
 is basically a full game in its own right. With great action and excellent presentation, Half Life 
 2 will feed every sensory in your body. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lestercage
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics of any game, ever. The character models look lifelike in a way.
 
  The storyline is so immersive.
  The weapons are pretty cool. The Gravity Gun is the best. You can literally pick up your enemies 
 and hurl them acroos the stratosphere.
  The sound and music are awesome, too.
  I know I keep saying "best", but i mean it.
  Another cool aspect of the game is the fact that 
 there are no cinematics. There's dialogue, but you remain in first person for the whole game. I 
 know this has been done before, but Half Life 2 takes it to the maximum.
  
  BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoeKob
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 26, 2005 1:09 am PT
Review:  This game is unbelievable! The graphics are stunning. As soon as you start the first level, you'll 
 see just how good the graphics are. 
  Now I know, graphics are not everything when it comes to gaming, so don't worry, the game has really 
 good game play as well. You'll face many different enemies, each unique and fun to attack, and 
 a nice rack of weapons to get the job done with. 
  Onto the sound. The sound of the weapons reloading sounds realistic, and the voice acting is accomplished 
 marvellously, but I still was not feeling it completely. There was something missing.
  Overall, this is an amazing game with no visible downfalls yet, I highly recommend it to any fan 
 of shooter video-games. Now stop reading this and go out and buy yourself a copy :)
  
  -Goe Kob, gone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kill_2004
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  As with most games that receive the hype that Half-Life 2 did before release, i was expecting to 
 be dissapointed. The sluggish Steam activation process only lowered my expectations. However, as 
 the game finally booted up for the first time, it certainly proved me wrong. The graphics are simply 
 stunning, perhaps not with the beauty of FarCry or the detail of Doom 3, but you really can see 
 how much the technology has progressed since the first installment. The introduction to the game, 
 letting you explore City 17, really immerses you in the world, so much more than cutscenes could 
 ever do. Although it is nice to sit back and watch pre-rendered cutscenes, HL2 tells the story 
 through the game, helping you to lose yourself in the story and really feel connected to the other 
 characters.
  
  Most of the weapons in this game you will recognise from the first game and most other FPS's: the 
 machinegun, Rocket Launcher, and of course the trusty Shotgun. However, HL2 features probably the 
 most innovative and imaginative weapons in the history of FPS's: the Gravity Gun. Although most 
 of the time, you'll be using this to stack boxes (which didn't have to feature as often as it did) , 
 the fun really comes when slicing zombies in half with circular saw blades or hurling explosive 
 barrels into a crowd of combine soldiers, really showing off the games fantastic physics engine.
 
  
  Despite being an extremely good game, it is definitely not as ground-breaking as the original. 
 You get the sense that you are just experiencing the same old FPS formula: shoot some bad guys 
 and solve the occasional puzzle. However, in HL2 this somehow seems fresh, almost innovative. The 
 action is presented in so many different ways: one minute you'll be piloting a boat through sewers 
 and rivers, the next you'll find yourself commanding a squad from house to house hunting combine. 
 The game never lets you think that you are being guided through the game, it gives the false impression 
 of non-linear gameplay with scripting meaning that if you die and reload, you won't be repeating 
 the exact same sequence that you just have.
  
  Despite being one of the best single player games i have ever played, HL2 does have it's flaws. 
 The lengthy loading breaks between areas can really disrupt the flow of the game and the ending, 
 although leaving the door open for a Half Life 3, is fairly unsatisfying.
  
  Once you have completed the Single Player game, however, there are the great Multiplayer games 
 to get stuck into. Counter Strike has been updated in the Source engine, but despite the new varnish, 
 the great gameplay is still the same as the original, so i needn't go into that. What i find myself 
 playing most is Half Life 2 Deathmatch, released through Steam after the games original launch. 
 There is simply nothing better than squashing your mates with a well aimed toilet or having them 
 hurled across the map after a good shot with an explosive barrel.
  
  In conclusion, you won't be dissapointed if you buy this game. Great gameplay and graphics and 
 gameplay make this probably the best FPS I have ever played. Plus, with CS: Source included, it's 
 great value for money. If you have a good enough PC, buy this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry64
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  HEADLINE: "One problem might be bad, right?"
  
  Half-Life 2 Review
  By: StarFry64
  
  The sequel to one of the best PC series is finally here, it's Half-Life 2. Recently, Value has 
 found the perfect graphics system which is called Source. They used Source for two of their games, 
 Half-Life 2 (of course) and Counter-Strike: Source (which comes with Half-Life 2. Also yes, they 
 used Source in their title lol) . So far, playing this game is a blast, no lag at all and the graphics 
 are totally top-notch. The tilt in CSS is totally great but in Half-Life 2 the tilt in weapons 
 and maybe moving is disapointing. Sound is kinda great but the music is not much heard in Half-Life 
 2 and really not much in CSS (of course, for some reason) . The gameplay is pretty much classified 
 as Old-School. But the gameplay is little bit better from the first. In Half-Life 2, the weapons 
 in it now are very powerful than the first and in CSS, still has the old weapons and makes it look 
 hard for your enemies to beat you. The value of this game is really sad. Not just for the fact 
 that when I was about to but it, it still cost $54.99 (and the game came out last year (2004) ) . 
 But actually the reason why the value is so sad because mainly people just want to play CSS and 
 not Half-Life 2. Since that people have been waiting for an updated PC version of Counter-Strike. 
 This game pretty much won't be worth playing alot like World Of Warcraft but it will make it for 
 you about 10 hours or less for the campaign due to the fact it is short a little bit and in CSS 
 it will make it for 5 hours or less to play it to make it worth while. Overall, play this game, 
 it is that great/superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GardienXII
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  In late 1998 the PC gaming world and the FPS genre were floored, and left in utter awe at the marvel 
 of gaming entitled "Half-Life". Since then it has gone on to win numerous "Game of the Year" awards 
 and has received top review honors from dozens of gaming magazines and websites. It's produced 
 one of the largest cult-followings in gaming history. And forever has this game left it's mark 
 on the gaming industry. Now, almost five years in the making, the sequel to the "golden gem" of 
 FPS games has finally emerged from behind all the screenshots, trailers, trials and tribulations 
 to reveal itself as one of the greatest games of all time, bar-none.
  
  When beginning the game, you find yourself face-to-face with the enigmatic G-Man himself. Right 
 off-the-bat you can notice the flawless facial animations and detail in the G-Man's face. The voice-acting 
 is very professional, nothing sounds like it's being read from script. The lip-synching is superb, 
 flawlessly integrated with every word exhibited by the games characters. Every inch, of every environment 
 you encounter in this game is detailed to perfection. The effects of the water, muzzle-flashes, 
 explosions etc., are mind-blowing. Valve has used the "Havok" physics engine for their latest installment. 
 And boy do they use it well. Everything from pushing blocks along rooftops, to knocking over buckets 
 and planks of wood, to Combine soldiers flying through the air from your last grenade. It's all 
 so life-like you might begin to actually believe yourself to be the protagonist, not Gordan Freeman. 
 
  
  This illusion, of being in the game, is actually very well executed. You never actually encounter 
 "cutscenes" in this game per se. You're constantly seeing things from a first-person perspective. 
 It's a great way for one to become quickly immersed into this massive 3-D world. More often than 
 not, you may find yourself on the edge of your seat, nose an inch from your monitor, enthralled 
 in one, of many, numerous battles to find sweat rolling down your cheek as if this is YOUR life. 
 And YOUR the one fighting for City 17's freedom. An illusion many games have never even come close 
 to mimicking.
  
  After your brief, but discerning, encounter with G-Man you'll find yourself on board a train heading 
 towards City 17. As soon as you arrive you can tell that the denizens of this run-down concentration 
 camp are miserable in their current state of affair. The story thus far is that Earth has surrendered 
 to the alien beings known as "Combine". They have now taken Earth into custody. City 17 acts as 
 the central pillar for your exploration in this game. It's a large, sprawling city and immersive 
 in every aspect of the word. You'll encounter several Combine guards as soon as you step off of 
 the train. They can be interacted with in a humorous fashion. In fact, all the characters of this 
 game can be interacted with to an extent. Pass by a certain person to find his gloomy gaze fixated 
 upon you. Walk near others to eaves-drop on their current discussion which almost always is pertaining 
 to the situation at hand.
  
  Not soon after you have explored a small apartment building of City 17 you'll encounter Barney, 
 Eli Vance and his daughter Alyx Vance. From here is where the main plot starts to unfold itself. 
 You'll then don your familiar Hazard Suit, and will be asked to step through a portal. A malfunction 
 will cause some sort of dimensional rift and, similar to Half-Life, you'll be transported to various 
 locations that you'll actually visit during the course of the game. The escapades you encounter 
 throughout the game are some of the most action-packed in any game to date. You really feel as 
 though your a revolutionary undertaking this great task to free civilization from the clutches 
 of a tyrannical force.
  
  Of course, what good is a freedom fighter without a diverse arsenal of weapons at his disposal. 
 You will acquire your standard conventional weapons; SMG, Pistol, Shotgun and Grenades. You are 
 also able to collect some purely fantastical weapons. One such is the Pherapod. Launch one into 
 a crowd of Combine to have a swarm of Antlions rip into them like a medium-rare steak. Others include 
 the Laser-Guided Rocket Launcher. Fire one rocket and maneuver it through the air using your mouse. 
 They're used most frequently in your fight against the towering Strider's. Mechanical beings that 
 patrol the stagnant streets of City 17. You will, of course, also be in possession of the staple 
 weapon of the series. The revered Crowbar. Best used to plow through boxes and crates. Or even 
 bash across the soft underbelly of a barnacle. 
  
  Although one weapon, that may become even more infamous then the Crowbar after this game is the 
 new Gravity Gun. What a delightful treat this little bundle of, physics driven, joy is. Use the 
 primary fire to send a powerful arc of light into any object and launch it forward with awesome 
 force. Or utilize the secondary fire to magnetise items and pull them towards you. This works on 
 ammo and health as well. One great demonstration of the Gravity Guns superiority is in Ravenholm. 
 Buzz-saw's are strewn about the level and you can make use of these, using the secondary fire + 
 primary fire, to make short work of the resident zombies here.
  
  Overall, Half-Life improves on every spectrum of it's predecessor. It delivers rock-solid gameplay 
 with innovative graphics and physics. If you own a computer that can run this game, and your even 
 just mildly interested in FPS's then grab yourself a copy of Half-Life 2 and become a revolutionary, 
 just like Gordan Freeman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealZac
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 23, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Before I played Half-Life 2, I loved many games. I was generally easy to please. After playing 
 Half-Life 2, it seems like all the games that used to be good enough for me just aren't. They can't 
 touch HL2's graphics; they don't seem nearly as polished, and their gameplay isn't creative or 
 diverse enough to maintain my attention. Thats because Half-Life 2 is a masterpiece. Its not 
 just a pretty-looking graphical benchmark for your new PC; Half-Life 2 is a benchmark for gaming 
 in general.
  
  The Graphics, at first, don't seem like much. The reason for this, I think, is because they are 
 so real that you take them for granted. When Half-Life 2 is rendered for the first time on your 
 monitor, it feels like your monitor is a window to City 17 or Black Mesa East. It's when the unbelievable 
 action starts that you begin to realize it's a game. The only complaint I have about the graphics 
 is, because the game has been in development so long, the textures are lower quality than, say, 
 Doom 3. In other words, the textures, up close, look so 2003.
  
  The sound is perhaps the most flawless part of the game. The voice acting is very good. Every character 
 in the game has something different to say if you walk up to them. All sounds reverberate in large, 
 open spaces, and sound muffled in dense rooms. The weapon sounds are extremely satisfying, from 
 the introductory pistol to the Pulse Rifle to the rocket launcher. Explosions are also very fulfilling, 
 and they neither look nor sound overdone. I have no complaints about the sound in Half-Life 2 at 
 all; it is simply perfect.
  
  The gameplay, to many, is what really matters. You could have a piece of crap and wrap it up with 
 good graphics and sounds, but it's still crap. As you probably guessed, however, Half-Life 2 is 
 anything but crap. Every minute you play, the game is entertaining. It's never boring or monotonous. 
 It's like going to a good restaurant and ordering everything on the menu, so you can try the perfect 
 amount of everything. You go from hacking up and gunning down CPs in Route Canal to conserving 
 your ammo and dropping cars on zombies in the infamous Ravenholm. However, the gameplay has one 
 problem: the ending. The game ends with a one-sided conversation with the G-Man. He then mysteriously 
 disappears, and then it ends. It's like the owners of the restaurant just kicked you out the door. 
 The final 15 minutes of the game also seems anti-climactic, but for some strange reason, you are 
 still satisfied. Or, at least I was. So, I am also giving gameplay a perfect 10.
  
  I can make this review as descriptive and as long as possible, but I can't replace the experience 
 of actually playing the game. I could give you the layout to each level, and tell you exactly what 
 I felt the first time I blew away a CP with an explosive barrel or led an army of ant lions through 
 Nova Prospekt, but I can't tell you exactly what you felt. This review is an opinion, and opinions 
 will vary. You cannot model your opinion from mine or any others, you have to create it yourself. 
 So go out right now and buy the game. It will be the best investment of your gaming career. If 
 there was a time capsule to the future, and we had to choose a game to define what a game was, 
 that game would be Half-Life 2.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 23, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 from Valve is visualy stunning. The graphics are high-end and a worthy opponent to 
 any of todays graphic intense FPS. What is even more enjoyable is how the game runs on it's higher 
 performance settings on my system. Running on 2.4ghz P4 with a gig of ram and a 5500 256mb chip 
 from nvidia ran this game shockingly well. The video card is not the best and 2.4ghz can be just 
 shy of really good now a days for FPS's but my system ran HL2 almost flawlessly.
  
  The game delivers a very creepy vibe in the beginning, something that the fans of DOOM were hoping 
 for but were let-down. The challenge is good with only a few "what do I do now" moments. A big 
 draw to the game is the new physics engine and believe me it's very enjoyable. The gravity gun 
 is highly entertaining as you can use just about any object to attack your enemy with. For some 
 reason dragging a can of paint from halfway accross the room to you with the Gravity gun and sending 
 it at a mindless zombie seeing it coovered in paint is fun to me. Or sending a gear or blade it's 
 way severing it in half...
  
  ... that reminds me of some of the issues I have with Half-Life 2. The enemies you can throw paint 
 cans at are the same exact enemies you fought in the first game. If you like killing zombies with 
 blood sucking crabs on their heads you'll love Half-Life and Half-Life 2. They offered almost nothing 
 in new enemies to fight and it got really annoying the further you got into the game.
  
  The most dissapointing apect to Half-Life 2 is the story. Half-Life 2 is clearly a part of a bigger 
 whole that unfortunatly for fans of the series they will have to wait many years to find out why 
 they just played Half-Life 2. The story in this game is simple, you wake you from some stassis 
 you were in and from then until the end of the game you are told by everyone you meet that you 
 must hurry to get back to Black Mesa but you are never told why and when you get there you find 
 no answers and then BAM the game ends. When the game ended for me i actually yelled at my monitor 
 "NO! NO YOU ARE NOT ENDING THIS GAME LIKE THIS" and sure enough they did.
  
  When I was done playing Half-Life 2 I just played one of the best FPS ever as far as look, feel, 
 playability, and easily had the best physics I have played with. I was also faced with fighting 
 the same exact enemies as the first game with no story backing me. Not to mention Gordon Freeman 
 still does not speak at all which makes the dialog in this game rediculous. Forgot to mention that 
 the game does not take long to beat at all. Very dissapoiting in that respect.
  
  Half-Life 2 was a very big let down but that was primarliy because I never had quite the high expectations 
 for a game like I had for Half-Life 2. Hard to live up to them but they fell short with a horrible 
 story, lack of new content, and not to mention they ripped off the public with their over priced 
 sticker of $54.99 most places. I refused to pay that and waited a couple weeks for it to drop like 
 I knew it would. Don't be fooled into thinking the game is trash because the graphics, physics, 
 creepy vibe, gameplay, and the Counter-Strike visual upgrade are VERY good features to this game 
 and how well it runs on your machine is worth $29.99 - maybe $39.99. So for the money this game 
 came out at it was a very poor value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 343TheFlood
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Now its almost unheard of for a Halo fan to write a review for Half-Life or Half-Life 2 and rate 
 it properly yet I am going to forget all I know about Halo for the moment and write this review 
 as best I can.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a First Person shooter which places you in the feet of Gordon Freeman a man who 
 is put in the middle of a fight between a creature which transforms its victims into zombies that 
 wear things called head crabs and one or two different human armies. Its hard to understand the 
 story if you havent played the first game and even harder if youve only played the demo to number 
 2. Half-Life 2 tends to put you in a preset path through alleys and houses and seems to send at 
 certain points an unlimited supply of enemies at you. While this can be good or bad depending on 
 how much ammo you have for certain guns and how close the objective is. The graphics are good but 
 not necessarily great. The main thing wrong about this game is trying to get through a narrow doorway 
 and having to spend 5 minutes just to do it. Let me tell you that this game reviewer spent 30 minutes 
 extra playing a demo just to get through doorways is very frustrating. The game has some great 
 ideas for example it has a cool gun which can take *almost* (not taking big blocks of cement or 
 the map itself) everything and launch it at people. For example at one point the reviewer had no 
 ammo left and was cornered by the head crab zombies, I spied a saw blade, took out the gun, grabbed 
 the saw, and started cutting the zombies in half. Aside from a bit of a choppy frame rate. The 
 sound sounds a bit like about 200 noises just jumbled around together without any music that lasted 
 no more then 1 minute and was classical but still entertaining no less. At least the characters 
 do not repeat the same thing and sound alike. The Value is good since the game itself only costs 
 30 bucks so yes it is worth buying it but just barely. If youre not a First Person Shooter Fan 
 I suggest you dont buy this game and if you are FPS fans buy it and then sell it a while latter. 
 Overall, Its a good game with some graphical and technical issues.
  
  Game play: 7/10*for the saw*
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 6/10
  Value: 9/10
  Overall: 7.1/10
 
  
  Star Rating:
  GamePlay: ***1/2 out of *****
  Graphics: ****1/2 out of *****
  Sound: *** out of *****
  Value: ****1/2 out of *****
  Overall: ***11/20 out of *****
  
 
  Overall Raiting: 7/10
  
  Foot Notes:
  
  +: The Saw *slobbering*
  +: The nice graphics
  -: Evil Doorways
  -: Random Spawning Zombies
  ?: Why do head crabs 
 not get split in half when you hit them with a saw? Yet everyone else does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renegade_3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  There was a lot of anticipation and a lot of trepidation leading up to this, the biggest PC release 
 of the year. Some people loved it, some people hated it. In case your interested here are my thoughts 
 on the game.
  
  Graphics - Truly amazing, overall the graphics are pretty superb, but the best looking part of 
 the game is the characters. The faces are fantastically modeled and (unlike games like Doom 3 with 
 it's vaunted bump-mapping and and the newly released Everquest 2 which in my opinion looks totally 
 crap) the Valve team have done a great job on the textures which makes them actually look real. 
 and the speech system which uses voice recordings to form mouth movements is an incredibly simple 
 concept but very effective and makes it easy for mod-builders to create their own stories and characters.
 
  
  Sound - Well I only have a pair of reasonably good stereo speakers, but the sound was fairly good, 
 they re-used and revamped enough of Half Life's original sounds to make the game familiar to fans 
 of the original, but they also added new sounds that fit perfectly with this new alien race. I 
 have to say though that I found the occasional short bursts of music kind of annoying. In my opinion 
 they were so obvious and sudden that they only served to draw you out of the immersion created 
 by the rest of the game. 
  
  Game-play - The levels were well structured, the enemies tough but not unbeatable and there was 
 enough variety in mission-types to keep me coming back for more (although I felt that the Swamp 
 Boat part went on a bit too long) . The new Source engine made for some interesting but pretty simple 
 puzzles, but I can't help thinking that they could have done so much more with it, the puzzles 
 became very repetitive after a while, pretty much all of them involving the use of counter-weights 
 to lift a ramp. The Gravity Gun was the most fun part of the game, and even more fun in the last 
 level. I don't want to give too much away for those of you who haven't played it yet or haven't 
 got that far but certain events lead to the imbuing of the gravity gun with advanced alien energy 
 making it more powerful and much more useful as a weapon rather than just a tool. It's just a shame 
 you cna't use this advanced gravity gun in death-match. Part of me understands that it is simply 
 a far too powerful weapon which would unbalance tha game, but part of me just can't wait to get 
 another fix and who can be bothered replaying that one level over and over again? I'm getting a 
 bit off topic now, but overall (although I feel that Valve could have made better use of the Source 
 Engine, I understand that it is new territory and it will take time to explore all the uses and 
 the bugs they might cause) this is one of the very top games of the year in this respect.
  
  Story - For this game in particular this is the big one, Half Life was said to be the most 
 Cinematic and story oriented FPS of it's time and many were hoping for more of the same from Half 
 Life 2. Many others were sure that it couldn't live up to it's predecessor, and some after playing 
 the game are sure that it didn't. There was initially a lot of reservation about the fact that 
 the story-line from the original didn't really appear to carry over into the sequel. I think it 
 is easy to be confused about who your enemy is when you begin the game, you are surrounded by apparently 
 human hostile police force in what appears to be a dictatorship known a City 17 controlled by Dr. 
 Breen the apparently human administrator form Black Mesa. You are of course working for the G-Man 
 after supposedly accepting his offer at the end of the original Half Life, but it is unclear what 
 it is that you are supposed to be doing and in true Half Life style for the first short section 
 of the game you are left virtually clueless and directionless. it's not long before you run inot 
 a couple of friendly faces and the events of the years between the Black Mesa incident and present 
 time begin to take shape in your mind. The Half Life 2 experience is much like that of the original 
 in that you spend much of the game piecing together details about what is happening and what you 
 must do to survive and to aid the survival of your race. In some ways I found that the story was 
 more important to the game play than the original. But both games are incredibly limited by the 
 linear nature of their Cinematic atmosphere. Let's face it a movie is fated to end in only one 
 way, there are no choices, and in the case of a good movie everything leads up to that ending, 
 everything is structured to drop clues that you will remember and everything will finally make 
 sense. in this respect Half Life 2 felt like only half a movie or I guess you could say the second 
 part of a trilogy. Most trilogies follow the formula of Part 1 - a full story unto itself including 
 hints at something bigger, PART 2 - That something bigger is introduced and explored, but the end 
 is a cliff hanger, with tantalising clues as to what the final part could contain, leaving the 
 audience gasping for more, PART 3 - The Culmination of all. If you follow this theory in respect 
 to the Half Life series I'm sure you would agree that it seems to fit. Of course you could argue 
 that Half Life will become one of those never-ending game series and therefore can never completely 
 reach it's culmination, but I would like to think that good old Gabe has something big in mind 
 for the next instalment, I have no doubt that it is already in development at least at the concept 
 stage. I just hope we won't have to wait another 5 or 6 years for the next one.
  
  Overall it is an excellent game despite the misgivings of many fans of the original. I am sure 
 if they played it simply as a game rather than a sequel or as competition to their favourite game 
 of the year they could see that. But in my opinion even as a sequel it is a fantastic game. Just 
 because it takes an unexpected new direction is that necessarily bad. This is definitely the best 
 game of the year and one of my favourite games ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  FINALLY, we have a sequal to Half-Life. And what a great sequel it is. The great stroy line combined 
 with the reliability of the Source Engine makes for a fantastic first-person shooter. It's probabaly 
 one of the best we've seen in some time. While the ending is a bit... disappointing, it does leave 
 room for yet another sequel and according to Sierra and Valve, weon't have to wait as long this 
 time. :)
  
  Graphics: Not to bad. There are some glitches that I've encountered that makes teh graphics sort 
 of freak out for a little while, but other than that they're great.
  
  Sound: No real, music here... but hey, it works. Good sound effects though. 
  
  Value: A must 
 have. If you liek Half-Life This game is well worth the $50. PLUS if you order through Steam, you 
 get the complete back log of Sierra games. That mean's playing through Half-Life, Opposing force, 
 & HL2 right in order! Awesome... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the second installment of the Half-Life franchise and it follows from one of the 
 best PC games ever made. Like Halo 2 this game was thrown alot of hype and just like Halo 2 is 
 matches them. 
  
  This game is a first person shooter, it is just as sucessful as the original though not as ground 
 breaking. The original Half-Life was a classic instantly, you played as Gordan Freeman caught up 
 fighting aleins from another galaxy. At the end of the game you're hired by a weird man named G-Man 
 and you need to work for him. The sequel to that game picks up a few years after Half-Life 1, the 
 G-Man sends you back to Earth to battle with the Combine. Just like the first one, you get tons 
 of weapons to battle these beasts and there are a few new additions to the weapons. Like the very 
 cool gravity gun which can move stuff around, so like I can throw a gas barrel at a bunch of combine 
 or something like that. Like most sequels value soft didn't take mant risks on this game and takes 
 the same formula from the great game in Half-Life 1. Some of the moments in the sequal feel very 
 simalar to the original but other from that the combat system is very solid. Also this game nows 
 as vehicles that you can drive, like the buggy and an airboat. While you drive you still are in 
 first person mode which is unusual but is very good. There are tons of cool envirnments that you 
 are sent to do missions on like there's one town thats deserted. Only zombies are in the town and 
 the town is covered with booby traps. One of the great things about this game is the presentation, 
 the graphics are some of the best ever seen in a game and are clearly amazing. The animations are 
 also top notch, all the characters and enemies move realisticly and the facial animations are just 
 a joy to look at. Also to add to the characters there is alot of great voice acting. Although all 
 the characters look great and all that stuff, in the end the story is quite dissapointing. Another 
 problem is that this game is a little too easy, you can just bowl right through enemies without 
 facing much of a challenge. When your finished with the single player, you can play Counter Strike 
 Source and I'm sorry to say but that ain't so great. Counter Strike is fast paced game where terrorists 
 duke it out against counter terrorists. Your performance in rounds gives you more money and more 
 weapons for you to purchase. This multiplayer is good but aint great. 
  
  Overalll this game is completly worth it and with a multiplayer mode that aint bad, you are kind 
 of getting 2 games in 1. This game didnt revolutionze games like the original did but it will still 
 leave you pleased by the time you are done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genisk02
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2005 6:51 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Half-Life 2, this game is just outstanding, I'll simply begin my review just like that. I've 
 always been a big fan of the original Half-Life, it was one of my favorite games back in 1998 for 
 the PC. Half-Life was the game that actually got me into loving FPS games, and boy, it sure did 
 get me hooked.
  
  Enough of the original, here today, I show you my review based on Half-Life 2, the greatest game 
 sequel ever to happen yet. It's been a very long wait since Half-Life, the one and only FPS game 
 that earned more than over 50 Game of The Years awards. It's been years since of waiting and waiting 
 for Half-Life 2, and finally, it's arrived! Yes, the wait is over, we can now re-visit the goold 
 ol' times. Rather it be the amazing arsenal that Gordon Freeman somehow carries magically, or the 
 creepy ol' "G-Man" that appears in the middle of nowhere in every single level loaded in the game 
 to watch over Gordon. And, of course, how can we forget about the classical Crowbar? We will, and 
 always will remember the Crowboar for it's a true sign of friendship with the player and Gordon 
 Freeman, it's like some kind of... Bond.
  
  So, the real point of this review is to find out -- Was the long wait really worth it, could the 
 sequel to Half-Life 2 be nothing but good eyecandy and lame gameplay -- Vice-versa? Well, continue 
 reading to find out, of course! To make it much more easier and simple to read and follow, I'm 
 going to make several organized catagories based on the most important roles of Half-Life 2. I'll 
 post up the pros and cons, and very detailed information for your concerns. Now, let us begin.
 
  
  Graphics: Obviously, you'll need the recommended requirements for Half-Life 2 for enjoying the 
 best out of it, obviously. I'm using an Nvidia GeForce 6600 GT, the graphics were not a problem 
 for me! I've also used a 6800, I've realized how it runs a bit more quicker, but there's no serious 
 improvements but a bit of smoothing-out, nothing too, too important for an upgrade. So, with that 
 said, I'd recommend the 6600 GT if you don't want to spend a crazy amount of money, it's exactly 
 what you need to have. Your set to go, get ready for some nice, good-looking Half-Life 2 action!
 
  
  Well, let's put it this way, the scenary doesn't move as much as it would have if your comparing 
 it to FarCry. The trees don't move, there's no small shrubs on the floor that wiggle every now 
 and then if a breeze rolls by, nope -- Nothing like that. I'm not sure if I'd consider this a con 
 or not, but really, I could care less. It's nothing so important, so all I have to say is that 
 it would have been a nice feature if it was added, but really, I wouldn't have realized it too 
 much, anyways. Now, for the water, it looked really neat. However, you may have been able to catch 
 a glimpse of some type of pattern, you'll notice how there's square pieces showing, and how the 
 water squares all move and repeat in the same way like they were just simply placed there to repeat. 
 Big deal, like the movement effect, it's something you can hardly notice inless you focused on 
 it for awhile like how I did. None the less, it looks very real and it's some of the best graphics 
 I've seen.
  
  The visuals of the characters such as Barney, Alyx, Dr. Eli Vance and Dr. Kleiner, etc. were amazing. 
 I've never seen such real faces in-game, ever! Nope, never in my life! Half-Life 2 receives a big 
 mark for that, it's good to feel like your talking to real-life people in video games sometimes, 
 you know? Sometimes, I literally felt like some of the life-like and colorfull characters were 
 not talking or having long conversations with Gordon Freeman -- Instead, they were looking and watching 
 every single move of what I was doing. Yes, it's creepy at the same time, but... It's so real. So, 
 overall, the graphics in Half-Life 2 are superb, although I have a feeling that they could have 
 been much, much more nicer if they got that whole dynamic lighting update to cover all of it up, 
 wouldn't you say? The Source Engine did a great job, and for the ragdoll physics, I'd prefer that 
 over moveable nature anyday, hmm? It's fun seeing bodies fly up in the air, smashing into a couple 
 of obstacles on their way up, isn't it? If I'm wrong, please correct me, will you?
  
  Gameplay: Hah, this is a joke. There's not much to say here rather than Half-Life 2 having some 
 of the best gameplay a FPS game could possibly deliver. Your H. E. V Suit enables Gordon -- Well, enables 
 you -- To Sprint for a quick get-away or to speed up a bit if your in a rush, use your Flashlight 
 to illuminate pitch black areas to actually know where your going (Duh...) , jumping for, well, 
 there's not much to say about jumping, and it's actually default. The power can dim out for the 
 Flashlight and the Sprint can go from speedy to slow since your H. E. V energy must take a break 
 once and awhile like you, right? Stop for a bit, don't use up the energy for just a couple of seconds, 
 and it'll be fully recharged. This, I found a very neat feature.
  
  Now, for the weapons? The arsenal wasn't as big as it used to be from the original good ol' Half-Life, 
 but it was big enough, beleive me. The Crossbow and other types of unique weapons were brought 
 back in action, and obviously, the Source Engine gave them quite a make-over. And besides, their 
 just plain fun to use. There's not much else to say about the weapon coverage, however, there's 
 one thing every Half-Life 2 fan must mention for the game. That, of course, would be none other 
 than -- The Gravity Gun! Ragdoll, movement and all kinds of other types of physics are all nicely 
 detailed when it comes to the Gravity Gun. Some of this includes: Suck up objects, shoot it at 
 other objects do blow em' up, or simply, suck up an object and launch it at your foes to send them 
 flying in the air, or of course, down below!
  
  It's truely a nice feature (The GG) , seeing how the ragdoll comes in, too. Once an enemy is nailed 
 hard, their legs and neck fly back, and much more of that is packed in, too! I'll never consider 
 Half-Life 2 boring or repeative simply because the GG was added in, I'm sure you'd agree. The graphics 
 and gameplay, both important elements, worked together very well as a team to make Half-Life 2 
 extremely enjoyable and non-stop fun.
  
  Background: The story, the characters, the levels and the atmosphere -- What's so good about them, 
 are they good anyhow? Well, I'll admit it, I prefered the original Half-Life's story more, but 
 why? Good question, the answer would be... I'll get back to you on that one. Hmm, mabye because 
 Half-Life 2 didn't quite explain too much of the story? Hah, but that's a good thing. Yet again, 
 it makes you feel like your actually in the H. E. V Suit -- You being Gordon Freeman. I'd prefer that 
 more, it makes you create types of theorys to fill in all of the missing gaps (Including that eerie 
 ending) through-out the game. For the characters, yet again, Gordon isn't seen. Your him, remember? 
 How many times must I say it? Still, I love the whole idea. Barney sure did get a makeover, too. 
 At least now everybody (Mainly Barney) doesn't sound the same, besides a couple of Vortigaunts 
 through-out the game? Their the same species, so that doesn't count, does it? They all have, well... They 
 are all human, none the less.
  
  Like the original, there's "Loading..." screens spread through-out the game, they don't even last 
 20 seconds, so it's worth it. It's like there isn't any levels, simply a big, massive, creative 
 world... Just the way I like it, wouldn't you agree? The atmosphere, too. It feels just right, very 
 nice and detailed. The shadows and people you greet -- It's just all perfect. Everything works good, 
 it's like the life-cycle. One thing makes this thing work good, while the other things makes that 
 thing look more interesting than the rest. Umm, you'll figure it out if you re-read it some more. 
  .  
  Overall Score: It seems that Half-Life 2 is successful in almost everyway, just like the original. 
 It's really neat how Valve clouded Half-Life up, not even thinking about what their plans would 
 be like for Half-Life 2. For an example, Dr. Breen being the Administrator of Half-Life. Umm, what 
 I'm I missing here? Who's Dr. Breen, when was he ever in Half-Life? That's my point, they made 
 it all fit into the jigsaw, simple and clear. Thus, with that said, I'd give Half-Life 2 the score 
 of 9.0, Superb! I'd recommend it, beleive me, it's worth every penny in your pocket.
  
  Bonus: Not like I forgot, but Steam is also a nice feature to pack ontop of it all. You'll get 
 Half-Life 2's online feature added in for free, usually known as: Half-Life 2: Deatchmatch. And, 
 last but not least, one of the most addictive and greatest online FPS games ever created, Counter-Strike: 
 Source. Obviously, it's using the Source Engine as a massive upgrade. Right now, I don't think 
 I'll ever get bored of it. Not to mention, Steam is indeed a very nice add-on. You can play in 
 a sever of 64 people, and yet, you'll hardly ever encounter lag. Of course, it does depend, but 
 the chances have been extremely lowered if you encounter lag while playing CS: Source or HL2: DM, 
 beleive me.
  
  Well, that's it, that's my reveiw. I'd like to thank Valve for making Half-Life, one of the games 
 which made me love the FPS genre. And of course, creating Steam, an easy-to-use program for the 
 best connections and automatic updates for Steam games when needed! Last but not least, I'll repeat 
 it once again, for creating CS: Source, the best online FPS game. And, let's not forget, was Half-Life 
 2 worth the wait? Well, I couldn't agree more than "Yes", it really was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potvinandy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2005 5:26 am PT
Review:  I purchased a copy with a grimace after placing $57+ in the hands of the cashier thinking is this 
 really worth it. Went home, installed, played for 5 hours that night, couldn't believe it. I've 
 never been that captured by a single game. THe gravity gun is the best invention since the clock. 
 Man this game will get your heart pounding and your palms to sweat. Now that I finally have my 
 X800 Pro, this game would kick ass even more, but I sold it after I beat it cuz I'm not one of 
 those online players. It's probably Alyx that kept me playing, LOL. 35 hours later I was jumping 
 for joy. Valve, you did it. Best game ever, Halo 2 can't hold a candle to this title. Stop reading 
 reviews and purchase yourself a copy already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ross131313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2005 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Hl2...... Possibly the most hyped game of my generation, and lets face it, as soon as the stories 
 came out about how this game was gonna blow you away, be the greatest ever, define computer gaming, 
 it was destined to disappoint some people. This game is NOT the godsend you have been waiting for, 
 to rescue you from boredom for the rest of your life. But it is very, very, close. 
  It excels in some places so perfectly, you would think God himself designed it. The graphics are 
 genre defining. The reflections are something truly to behold, (instead of paying for 3d mark 05, 
 buy this for a true graphical challenge.) The story line is so well implemented, and written, you 
 would have thought they paid a professional to write it. 
  But there are some faults. The sound ( which is beautifully done) dosen't seem to have as much an 
 overpowering sense as it did in the origional Half-life. It just seems like there is less ambient 
 music in some places, and tragicaly, it feels rather quiet. 
  The game play (which is tons of fun with the inclusion of the grav gun) isn't as "unbelievable" 
 as it is in the first Half-life. Dont get me wrong, it still is loads of fun, but some parts seemed 
 rather tedious, and i would have liked to see larger scaled battles. And more situations where 
 the A. I can use its unbelievable abilities. (Everything feels more scipted)
  Overalll its a great game, with a gripping story, rememerable characters, and fun action. But it 
 is on the short side, I beat it in 12 hours on medium difficulty, and blew through each chapter 
 pretty quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  Having the privilege to play and beat this game was a very interesting and memorable experience. 
 Its definitely a great way to follow up the revolutionary game: Half Life. And I recommend it 
 to anyone who likes FPSs.
  
  Playing this game was great. The game play was as smooth as glass to me. The lighting and shadowing 
 effects were great! I loved it how everything reflected off the water so nicely. It was like I 
 was actually there! The storyline was great and unexpected. Ive never played a game anything like 
 it. 
  
  The sound was awesome. There are so many little details that Valve put in the sound. Those effects 
 really bring you into the game and make it much more enjoyable.
  
  The AI was a little shaky though. It didnt feel like the AI took cover fast enough before they 
 were killed. Sometimes they just ran at you without even looking for cover or just looked for a 
 place to hide behind only when you shot at them. With those details aside, the AI was great and 
 I had a lot of fun killing them.
  
  The replay value is great. Ive probably beaten the entire game 3 or 4 times and it never gets 
 old. Mostly because its never the same and you can tweak the odds toward or against you however 
 you want.
  
  Half life was a wonderful game in my opinion. And if you get this game, Im sure youll like it 
 as much as I do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark123321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The original Half Life was an amazing game, which captured many, many fans. It contained all the 
 stuff a cool first person shooter needs. It had cool enemies, good sequences where it put the gamer 
 in the game and graphics aside it made the first person shooter industry boom!
  Value, creators of the Half Life series, announced in around 2001 - 2002 they were in the development 
 of the sequel to this fine shooter. The fans become more and more excited, as more and more screenshots 
 were revealed to the media and the public. I wont go into to much detail, but basically Valve really 
 took there time on this game. Where they had to disappoint the gamers time and time again with 
 delays to the game and what not. But In Novemeber 2004, the game was finally released. Some were 
 a bit disappointed but many were very very happy at the game that Valve took so long to produce. 
 I say it was very well worth the wait, and this is my review of the game...
  
  Gameplay - 9 / 10
  
  Gameplay in Half Life 2 is amazing, it puts you, the gamer, into the shoes 
 of Half Life's hero, Gordan Freeman. In the game Gordan, the character you play, doesnt speak at 
 all, Valve thought this would increase the games value as it would put YOU into the game. The characters 
 in the game react to everyone and everything in the gaming world that has been produced, and its 
 made gamers facinated once again.
  
  Graphics - 10 / 10
  
  This may have been one of the reasons for the massive wait that was put onto gamers all over the 
 world. Half Life 2 was originally going to use the original Half Life's graphics engine, which 
 as you may have seen from the screenshots wasnt so hot. So they scraped the idea and started to 
 produce one of the most advanced graphics engines to be created in gaming history! They placed 
 all the money they got from the original Half Life's success into making this graphics engine and 
 it was well worth the money. It makes the characters look so much more realistic that they look 
 so much like real people. Also, built into the graphics engine, is an speech engine where all the 
 characters will react to the speech in real time movement. Take a look at the screenshots and you 
 can see the difference the time and money that has been spent has taken affect to the game.
  
  Sound - 9 / 10
  
  The sound is almost perfect, with each individual character with a different 
 voice. Also the gun shots and air ship noices are near enough perfect. The sound in the game combined 
 with the graphics makes the games enviroment a whole lot more realistic!
  
  Value - 10 / 10
  
  The value that your getting from Half Life 2, is around 4 years of hard 
 work. The time and money that has been spent in the game has paid off well, and I cant recommend 
 anything more to you than to play this game and get yourself a copy, because this game has once 
 again changed first person shooter history!
  
  Overall - 9.6 / 10 ( Superb )
  
  Overall this game is a fantastic game that you have to check out! Get yourself a copy or take a 
 look at your mates, but anyway you can, Play this game!!!
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Marky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vic91218
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  As a true Half-Life guru, and fan of everything Half-Life, I have to admit that HL2 is beautifully 
 done. Everything from the graphics, the physics, to the gameplay have been well thought out and 
 carefully crafted. You can read reviews that emphatically agree with me all day. However, I'd like 
 to address a not so uncommon problem with this game; "Motion Sickness." 
  When I first installed the game and started playing, it wasn't more than one hour before I started 
 feeling ill. Since then, I've done extensive research on why this particular game was making me 
 sick. First off, let me say that I've been playing this genre of game from the day I installed 
 Wolfenstein and then Doom. I've played almost every decent first person shooter up to this point, 
 with NO problems at all. This is the first game ever to make me feel ill. So I looked it up on 
 google, and quickly found I wasn't the only person having the problem. 
  
  http://www. techspot. com/vb/archive/index/t-17052. html
  http://3dgpu. com/archives/2004/11/19/half-life-2-make-people-sick-literally/
 
  http://www. liquidninjas. com/modules. php? name=News&file=showarticle&threadid=10143
  www. gamers-underground. com/ 
  
 
  
  These are just to name a quick few.....
  
  As I browsed the plethora of sites, I came across a couple so called "quick fixes." These involved 
 changing your monitors refresh rate to changing the games default field of view. Neither of these 
 things made one bit of difference to me. I still got sick. 
  As I finished the game, which took me 3 times as long because I was only able to play 30-60 minutes 
 at a time, I realized that I never saw any official address from Sierra regarding HL2's tendency 
 to cause motion sickness. If they did mention something, there was no fix? What's up with that? 
 Thousands of customers are complaining about motion sickness and Sierra has no fix. Hmmm. Sierra 
 should address this. I enjoyed the game, but would have enjoyed it considerably more if I didnt 
 always have to stop because of feeling ill. 
  
  Should you buy this game? 
  Yes. It's a great game. But be warned! Pick up some Dramamine to be on the safe side.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemes1s3000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Most of you out there in the gaming world have probably heard of a little program called Steam, 
 and most of you (CS gamers) out there probably hate its guts and the creator for that matter. Mainly 
 because of the bugs and glitches it delivers right after a bugs and glitches patch fix.
  
  But that's not a reason at all to not love this game, I mean sure it was delivered to us through 
 a crappy file sharing system that sometimes crashes on you, but you have to understand Valve and 
 their protection rights against piracy. They've spent about 5 - 6 years creating the ultimate engine 
 for Half-Life one's upcoming sequel. They needed to create something unique, something that will 
 deliver 10 times the action and fun than the first game. From the way I see it, they kept their 
 word on that and created an amazing game. Not only that, but the money they recieved from Half-Life 
 one's market success, it was all spent on developing Half-Life 2's Source engine.
  
  That's right, instead of buying a tiny island on Hawaii and a dozen ferraries, they spent each 
 and every penny on Half-Life 2. That's a dedication you can't even buy off of eBay.
  
  All in all, the sound is amazing, the graphics is spectacular, the levels are beautifully made 
 and easy to navigate. The only con I have about this game, is the loading time on certain levels, 
 it just takes longer than usual -- even with a super jacked-up PC. This game is great and I highly 
 recommend people buy it instead of renting.
  
  Happy gaming and give Steam a chance. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawagoto
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2005 12:35 am PT
Review:  Seriously, this is the best 1st person shooter since the Half-Life 1. No joke. It is haunting, 
 creepy, cool, and runs super smooth. The line between movies and video games is blurring. If there 
 is a future in video games it is Half-Life 2. 
  
  If you're tired of all the baloney that you've been playing lately... bored with the retarded sequals 
 and boring fighters, rpgs, online rpgs, etc.... you need to get this game. Imagine a game where 
 you are living and breathing a creepy 1984 reality (the book) ... the utter scariness of the guards 
 will give you nightmares. I was all into this game and I went to bed only to awaken in a cold sweat. 
 I actually had a Half-Life Nightmare... but the game play is far from it. Beautiful, simple, fun. 
 Wait til you get the Gravity Gun... of the girl comes out. I swear I wanted to jack it for the 
 first time to a video girl. No joke. She fine. No joke. NO JOKE. I swear I must be gettin' pretty 
 f'n nerdy if I'm going to rub one out to a vid-girl. Don't worry, I didn't actually do it... but 
 like I said, "SHE FINE". I kept using the controls to try and look down her shirt.
  
  This game would only be better with a menage sex scene between Gordon (you) , Her, and her robotic 
 dog. Aroooooh! Get to steppin' and buy this game... it'll twist your measly little video game mind 
 and bring you out on the other end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moti_Biran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  --SPOILERS!! --
  I was worth the wait! Valve has delivered, once again, a game that remains in your head long after 
 you finish it.
  Some of the scenes in the game, in game cinematics and gameplay parts, you will never forget, some 
 story twists as well. Like the turn around of the Antlions! Man That was cool!!
  The only reason I didn't give the gameplay a 10 is the ending. There is just so many times a game, 
 a good game, can end like this. And it doesn't matter what is going around at the time of the actual 
 ending.
  Remember Valve!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  And that is reinvent the FPS genre. Ok first off you got your rag doll, nothing new. Now add realistic 
 physics to piratically every object in the game, starting to look better. Next add a gun to play 
 around with the physics, now things are getting interesting. Then you put in the best AI around, 
 brain is starting to overload, *takes a deep breath* Last, vehicle and foot combat, real facial 
 expressions, excellent voice acting, intriguing story, large out door areas, action packed chases, 
 im talking about the Heli chasing you through the sewers on a hover craft, making huge jumps, with 
 combine solders coming at you at all sides, the .357, laser guided rocket launcher, gunship, bug 
 bait, Alyx's ass, STRIDER!!!*head explodes*
  
  You get my point.
  
  If you take all these elements and put them into one game you get Half Life 2. The best game that 
 your hard earned cash can buy right now.
  
  Every element about this game is spot on. 
  Gameplay: Fast paced, and to the point. No extra features, just you, a weapon of choice, and a 
 million combine solders heads that need to be shot off.
  
  Graphics: If the water doesnt impress you, I dont know what will?? Maybe the faces of the people, 
 or how about the out door areas.... No?? How about the explosions..... yeah, you like the stuff blowing 
 up dont ya. Only problem with the graphics that I had is on the crossbow scope its a 3D picture 
 and its not rendered in real time like FarCry, but that can be overlooked easily.
  
  Sound: KABOOM!!! 5.1 surround sound!!!
  
  Value: You may take a break from playing Half Life 
 2, but you'll come back. They'll all comeback..... until Half Life 3 comes out.
  
  If your still reading this: GO AND GET HALF LIFE 2 NOW!!! You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightforglory
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Lets start off telling you about the gameplay. It is great and Source is 
 IMO the best engine at this moment. It has great physics that seem very realistic. It is not too 
 hard to play but if you are terrible with a mouse and keyboard it might be hard to kill at some 
 points in the game. It starts off against the combine and continues on and you will eventually 
 fight some monsters and get to drive some vehicles. The graphics are amazing especially with a 
 top of the line computer. You will notice the video in the beginning the guy almost looks real. 
 Sound is great also but not the best to ever be in a game. This game will keep you playing and 
 gives you the bonus of getting CS: S to play online. This game is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perihelion
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to do a long review. I just have to say that... I've been playing computer games 
 since the early eighties. There have been many favourites during the years. Games from Pac Man, 
 Jumpman Jr, Wizball, Speedball 2, Chaos Engine, It came from the desert, Duke Nukem 3d to more 
 recent games such as Mafia, the GTA series, and Far Cry. I would have liked to added The Thing 
 to that list as well but it's just to got damned hard...
  Anyway, never would I have thought that I would see a game that would surpass all my old favourites 
 and to me just be the most perfect game I've ever played. I completed the game yesterday and already 
 I want to start from the beginning. I can't give a game a better score than that.
  
  One more thing... Before the game was released I wondered why it would take 5 years for it to come 
 out. Now when I've played the entire game I can't understand how they managed to to it in just 
 5 years... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gavinator
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 11:45 pm PT
Review:  To tell the truth, I never really played the original, untill I read about HL2, after playing I 
 couldn't wait for HL2. Still I didn't expect it to be so mind-blowing and revolutionary. When I 
 got my hands on it (and waited for steam to update it.... ugh) and clicked new game, my life changed. 
 I explored City 17, gawking at the sheer beauty of it all. Half Life 2 is really the prime example 
 of a perfect game. The game's intense storyline, head scratching and clever puzzles, intense gunfights, 
 realistic physics and great sound. Each level keeps surprising you, from the creepy walk through 
 Ravenholm (possibly creepier than Doom 3) , to the assualt on the prison. I can reccomend this game 
 to shooter fans, and gamers in general. The few complaints I have are Steam's annoying and constant 
 hiccups, but Steam is definetly makes it easy to download custom made maps and mods. Also you will 
 need a fairly beefy computer to run HL2 on high settings, but the requirments are fairly low considering 
 the graphics. So there you have my review. Half-Life 2 will go down in history as one of the games 
 you have to play if you own a Computer, like Casablanca is a movie you have to see if you enjoy 
 films. What are you waiting for? Buy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PTYG
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2005 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna make this quick and simple
  
  Gameplay - good
  
  AI - bad
  
  Graphics - Supa Dupa
  
  Sound - good
  
  NOTES - half life 2 has a way of making u really 
 enjoy everything around u. with the clever scenes and the way valve put every bit of detail in 
 every bit of detailing detials.
  
  buy it, the cinematics and immersiveness alone will make your heart be filled with everloving joy 
 that makes ur life worthwhile
  
  WHY WONT GORDAN FREEMAN TALK?!
  
  grr
  
  and now some neverending letters to make my review reach the minimum charater requirement
  
 
  aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaddddddddddd ddddddddddddd dddddddddddddddddddddd ddjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj  
  rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr rrrrrpppppppppppppppp pppppwwwwwww wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww 
 wwwwwwwwwwwwwqqqqqqqqqqq qqqqqqqqqqqfffff fffffffffffffffffffffff ffffffffffffffffffffff ffffffffffffffffffff 
 fffffffffffffffffff ffffffffffffff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 1, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  Let it be known that I got a chance to play Half Life 1 and finish it. It was a very solid FPS 
 that presented new ways to experience a story. I found it noteworthy but not as groundbreaking 
 as many publications claimed it to be. Then came Half Life 2. The uncontrollable hype that the 
 HL community has showered among many gamers compelled me to NOT play the game. However, two months 
 after its debut, I ended up buying the game. As much as I hate to admit it, I enjoyed it immensely. 
 I'm not your typical hardcore gamer who is bent up on choosing franchises, consoles, or brands 
 and defending it to death. I refuse to waste my time tarnishing other games of this genre but it 
 can't be ignored that HL2 is currently the best executed FPS games I've played thus far. I'm the 
 type of person that is extremely picky and have played and collected games since Atari. very few 
 games offer the kind of visceral (yet cerebral) action sequences that leave the gamer clamoring 
 for more. Many times, I've seen games with a lot of flair but very little function. In the case 
 of HL2, its function is its flair. Many games nowadays (especially FPS) has touted realistic graphics, 
 physics, and interactivity. A few games have done these three things very well but HL2 makes it 
 a nice seemless affair. The physics engine never gets appreciated until puzzles are encountered 
 in the game. The puzzles also have purpose and are believable. In other games, the physics engines 
 are mere tech demos and gimmicks that most gamers shrug over. Nevertheless, you will wonder why 
 HL2 is one of those games you will wish wasn't a device for procrastination. HL2 is so well-rounded 
 and well-paced that you will find yourself underestimating the amount of time you spend on the 
 game. Character modeling takes a major upgrade from HL1 and the performances of these characters 
 are convincing. Sometimes when you're goofing around at some area playing with the gravity gun 
 or interacting with different parts of the environment (i. e. mini teleportation devices, etc.) 
 its hard to appreciate every facet of the game and that's where HL2 has some of its faults. Even 
 the great games have dents. Part of HL2's few faults lie in its ambitious design. If you can punt 
 junked cars with your gravity gun, why can't you manipulate simple things such as simple wire gates, 
 overhead lights, or weapons from combine soldiers? The story also has some plot holes over Gordon 
 Freeman's true purpose. Assuming you don't go around the environment goofing around during these 
 intricate conversations the story can be less or more convoluted. Despite these shortcomings, HL2 
 is a joy to behold. It puts the player in the deep end of the game right away but you never feel 
 helpless. The graphics are immersive but more importantly, they're purposeful. The overall environment 
 hints with small subtle cues so that the player knows what to do next but doesn't make it obvious. 
 Half Life 2 is not revolutionary but it does provide a great experience, especially for the casual 
 gamer.
  
  http://www. radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OptimusPrime
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  I hadn't waited as long as most people had for Half-Life 2's release. I was a console only gamer 
 for a long time, so I missed out on a lot of the PCs big titles. I received a computer as a graduation 
 present in 2004 and immediatly set out to buy some games. I found Half-Life Platinum Collection 
 for only $20. I had heard some good things about it, but didn't know what it was that made Half-Life 
 so special. I bought the collection and immediately started playing. 
  
  It was then that I realized that I had been waiting for a Halo killer for far too long. Its been 
 out since 1998.
  
  Since it took me so long to get into Half-Life, the wait for Half-Life 2 was much more bearable. 
 But that didn't mean I wasn't excited. Half-Life was the best game I had played in a long time, 
 and now the sequel was out. Unfortunately, I have a lousy computer, and didn't think it could handle 
 Half-Life 2. Then Valve released a demo which I downloaded instantly. I was happily surprised to 
 see how well it ran on my computer.
  
  That's one thing I've noticed with this game that no reviews I've read have pointed out. Half-Life 
 2 has an uncanny ability to run well despite crappy video cards (I problem that has plagued most 
 of the other games I've played) . My computer has a Radeon 9200, and unfortunately doesn't have 
 any AGP ports. Yes you read that right. My brand new computer has no AGP ports. And yet, Half-Life 
 2 runs perfectly smooth on medium quality graphics on my PCI Radeon 9200.
  
  Half-Life 2 is one of the best looking games I have seen in a long time, even on medium quality. 
 I can't even imagine what it must look like on high quality. The character models all have tremendous 
 detail and incredible facial animations. Outdoor backgrounds weren't perfect, but indoors everything 
 looked great.
  
  You can't talk about Half-Life 2 without mentioning the game's incredible physics engine. Almost 
 anything in an area can be picked up, and with the Gravity Gun, flung all around. Anything from 
 tables to radiators becomes ammunition. 
  
  The game's story is well written and presented in a way that is rarely seen in games. All the action 
 unfolds around you. You will not watch a single cinematic the entire game. Most of the time you're 
 free to run around and look at what you want while the plot is playing out, and in the few times 
 that you can't it feels totally natural and fits the context of whats happening.
  
  The voice acting is some of the best you'll ever hear, video game or otherwise. All the characters 
 are extremely memorable, and don't sound like they're reading from a script. Although your character 
 never speaks, you will actually feel like you are having a conversation with these characters, 
 and you will become quite attached to them by the game's end.
  
  Half-Life 2 is the perfect sequel to one of the best games in history. It succeeds where most games 
 fail and delivers an epic story and incredible action all in one package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furiosus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  By far the most engaging first person experience since the original. From the beginning till the 
 end, it grabs onto you and pulls you in, making you want more of it. The graphics are amazing on 
 mid to high-end systems. Graphics. sound, level design, and story just melt together in to a blend 
 of gaming goodness we gamers all waited for. If it is for the little puzzles here and there, that 
 make us scratch our heads to figure out what the heck we're supposed to do, to the malicious joy 
 of the gravity gun, and everything you can launch with it at your prey. 
  
  The only downside was a certain "sh-ugg" during certain areas in the game, which was addressed 
 after a patch fixed this level load bug. And the fact that there was an option to purchase the 
 game through Valve's Steam, (a client side program which allows for direct download of the game, 
 and its other available titles) had certain issues at launch also. But to be honest, ITS WORTH 
 IT!!! 
  
  Now we need to wait for the next incarnation of Gordon and his friends... Let the saga continue... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the1wingedangel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2005 2:39 am PT
Review:  Half Life. Two words that mean so much lost time to so many gamers. It is, as we all know, one 
 of the biggest most influential games ever made. The sequel was inevitable. The endings implied 
 it was on the cards, and then they announced it. The net went nuts. Then they delayed it.. and 
 again... and again..
  
  When I'd almost forgotten about it I saw a subtle TV ad and nearly wet myself. It was out in under 
 a week! Well the day arrived, and after the lengthy install and activation process, I was in. Anxious 
 to play this game I'd waited for for so long.
  
  The first impressions were good if something of a dja vu. I was on a train, confused and unarmed, 
 but my god, I didn't even know my 9200 card was capable of that. I shan't say any more about that 
 save to say that the game impressed me from the start, kept me longing to play right up until the 
 end. Valve did very very well indeed.
  
  First off; the graphics. They are absolutely brilliant. Everything looks wonderful, the places 
 they've created are all wonderfully atmospheric. People always comment on Doom 3 and compare the 
 two. I think that is totally unreasonable. Doom 3 is pretty much an exercise in showing off. I've 
 tried to play the demo and it did all look nice but there was no variation and there was no chance 
 it was ever going to run reasonably on my computer. Half Life 2 on the other hand still look absolutely 
 gorgeous, Valve made a game that anyone who has bought a PC in the last 2 years can play and still 
 experience well, and I think they deserve a huge amount of credit for that.
  
  Next, the sound. As with the first game there isn't so much a soundtrack to this game as atmosphere. 
 There is constant music, and sounds running in the background, which you don't notice until your 
 supposed to. They add to the intensity of the experience wonderfully without ever intruding, and 
 when they build up you know something is coming and that just makes it worse. The weapons all sound 
 fairly good, as do the enemies. Thee are several sound bites used over from the original, but no 
 complaints for that from me.
  
  The gameplay. If you've played the first you will be familiar with the kind of atmospheric gameplay 
 involved, and this is not too different. The puzzles are slightly more lateral thinking oriented 
 (often involving the gravity gun) and the enemies, a lot more intelligent, but it is very rarely 
 frustrating. It's one of the miracles of the Half Life series, in my experience, on their standard 
 difficulty they provide a good challenge, but never become frustrating.
  
  All in all Hal Life 2 more than lived up to its own high standards, admittedly the storyline was 
 more than a little vague, but for sheer fun factor it was magnificent... For about 10 hours. And 
 then it had ended. Fortunately Valve included a lot in that box which have kept me occupied since 
 ;) . HalfLife 2: Deathmatch is a lot of fun, using the same graphics, weapons and maps based on 
 areas seen throughout the game. It is essentially your standard deathmatch, kills and losses recorded 
 and winner at the end. 
  
  They also released the update to counterstrike. I never played the original, and stories of widespread 
 cheating meant that I never really gave it a shot, but I was curious so I gave the new version 
 a shot, and it has kept me consistently amused ever since. I'm by no means t he best player, but 
 I still enjoy, especially if I can find an easy going server with other people like me, and not 
 obsessive clan members. Then it is one of the most fun games I have played.
  
  
  
  In summary, the main 
 game is beautiful, fun, atmospheric. Everything a game should be, but also short. Valve however 
 included a lot mor in the package and it is an unmissable package. The only games to give me more 
 value for money so far have been the Final Fantasy series and Wolrld of Warcraft. If you don't 
 have it yet, you're a fool and should get up right now and go to the shops and obtain a copy of 
 this masterclass of game design.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _solidsnake_2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life, is one of the greatest games games ever made because it redefined the genre, but Halflife 
 2, unlike its predessessor creates nothing new, but only makes itself stand out by offering great 
 sound and graphics, but nothing else. In short... this is just like any other FPS out there. It 
 is just superbly made with awesome graphics and sound, great multiplayer (because it comes with 
 counter-strike source, the current king of Multiplayer games on the PC) . The graphics engine puts 
 a lot of realism in the game and the graphics are set to run on lower end systems will make a lot 
 of people interested in this game, even those who said *This game is going to be so good that it 
 wont run on my computer that I wont even bother buying it* News: it runs just fine on 64 mb so 
 dont worry.
  
  All in all this game is nothing new, been there done that, but still worth a purchase because it 
 also comes with css.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  First things first, this game is definately worth five years in the making.
  
  You are Gordon Freeman, the protagonist of the game and in the last Half-life game. You are to 
 free the people of City 17 from the control of the Combine. If your familiar with the last Half-Life 
 game you would know that this game combines a mixture of shooting and puzzle solving. The game 
 is very unique since there are no movie scenes, only playing through the whole game and learning 
 bits and pieces of the story at a time.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing and they rival Doom 3's graphics in almost everyway. But 
 what seperates this game from Doom 3's is the facial animations, the physics in this game, and 
 the amount of effort they place in the environment. The additon of the gravity gun allows you to 
 play with the physics in the game which truly shows you the power of the game's engine.
  
  Half-Life 2's gameplay is just like any other FPS and pretty easy to learn, but it involves plenty 
 of other different aspects in it. When you play throughout the game you never do the same old things. 
 You can drive a car, drive a boat, control your own army of aliens, and theres even a horror portion 
 to it. It seems like in every chapter you go through, theres something new for you to do. And with 
 the addition of the gravity gun, you just never get bored. 
  
  The single player portion of the game is pretty long, but it feels short if it took five years 
 to make it. The game itself doesn't really have it's own mutiplayer but it's made up of other games 
 with it. When you get the basic version of this game, you will get additional games such as Counterstrike: Source, 
 Half-Life: Deathmatch which is the multiplayer portion of Half-Life 2, and Codename Gordon. So you'll 
 have alot of fun playing this game and the additions to it.
  
  There's pretty much no problems with this game other than that it took so long for this game to 
 come out, and that you need to have a pretty good computer to play it. But it's alot easier to 
 play, compared to the requirements for Doom 3. 
  
  What can I say, this is one of the greatest games ever created and anyone who plays games should 
 definately play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derrtyboy69
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2005 3:09 am PT
Review:  Believe the hype my friends, Half-Life 2 rocks. It took over 5 years to finish, but it was worth 
 the wait. It is a brand new experience, but is still familiar to fans of the original. Gordan Freeman 
 is back, and is working for the mysterious G-Man. It even includes the newest addition to the multiplayer 
 phenomenon Counterstrike, which is in control of all of my friends.
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  
  Half-Life 2: The game play is perfectly balanced. The enemies are intelligent and will react to 
 you in different situations. If you are an experienced PC first person gamer, I suggest playing 
 through the game on Hard. It is very easy on normal difficulty, and I found only one part somewhat 
 difficult. Many of the guns from the original are back, and are joined by three new weapons. These 
 happened to be my favorite guns of the game, and are a welcome addition. The gravity allows you 
 to manipulate objects to use as shields or weapons, such as radiators, saws, and small boxes. The 
 Pulse Rifle is basically a more powerful, more accurate Sub-Machine Gun, and it has an odd energy 
 blast for its' secondary fire. The other is Bugbait, which allows you to control a group of up 
 to five viscous beasts called ant lions. There are vehicle segments consisting of a hovercraft 
 and the Super Indestructible Go-Cart with a gun on top. I found the Go-Cart segment very enjoyable, 
 only surpassed by the jail cell fighting about 2/3 through the game.
  
  GRAPHICS 
  
  Incredible. The graphics are gorgeous, and the graphics engine is probably the most efficient engine 
 ever created. I say this without hesitation as my wimpy 2.4 ghz, 768 mb, 5700 LE computer runs 
 this game at 1024 X 768 resolution, and high detail settings. I get about 40 fps with this, and 
 it looks great. The same goes for Counterstrike: Source, although it is much less efficient in 
 some maps, and the map de_tides is completely unplayable with any settings on my computer. 
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is great. The score, while It doesnt play often, is good, and the gunshots 
 and vehicles sound great. The voice acting steals the show, with a massive amount of it and probably 
 the best in any game.
  
  VALUE
  
  Probably the best deal in video games, barring the Blizzard Battle Chests. The single player will 
 take around 17-20 hours to finish on Normal difficulty, and Counterstrike: Source is included in 
 the package. This is the most addicting, best looking multiplayer game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief539
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2005 2:33 am PT
Review:  I just got hl2 last Sunday, and to be honest i really got it 4 CS: Source lol. but when i started 
 the actual campaign, it got really into it. I feel that the gameplay is just right, and they did 
 a great job at every other aspect of the game. The graphics are very cool, along with the interactive 
 environment, and that motor boat part was pretty rckin' :D I feel that the wait was worth it because 
 they delivered a great game in the end, which i can now consider myself a hl2 fanatic :D. the only 
 prob was the length of the game itself. i haven't beaten it yet (school and other activities: p) 
 but i have seen that i am about 1.2 way through the game after an overall playing tim of about 
 3 hours. The obstacles are also very fun, because i always have had a knack for finding them :D. 
 Overall, the game rocked and i cant wait 4 the updates to get better, and the new one to come out 
 asap.
  
  
  P. S.
  I got it without a parent - THANKS BEST BUY!!!!
  17+ MUHAHAHAH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2005 10:31 pm PT
Review:  After endless delays and claimed thefts of the source code among other things, Half-Life 2 was 
 finally released in November last year. Deliver or not was the question for one of the most eagerly 
 awaited games in computer- and video game history. Everyone and their aunt had seen the videos 
 of the amazing interactivity of the source-engine and expectations were set space rocket-high.
 
  
  The first Half-Life was an extraordinary experience, a game like no other. It truly reinvented 
 the FPS-genre with its immerse atmosphere of horror, catastrophe, disaster and stuff generally 
 going on a straight path to hell. The adventure elements and the great story brought whole new 
 levels to an already very intense and suspenseful game in the action genre. It was sheer originality 
 all the way through, including the perfectly natural journey to the alien world Xen that so many 
 people seemed to have problems with.
  
  Its important to be clear about what made Half-Life 1 such a great game since HL2 inevitably will 
 be compared to it a lot. Namely it makes pointing out the many weak points of the sequel that much 
 easier. To start with the game play, it is very standard FPS by now, in fact it is in most places 
 even worse than a standard FPS - and of standard FPS I'd say Far Cry is a good example. There are 
 balance issues with the arsenal that obviously has been rearranged since those juicy videos first 
 were released. You kind of feel like a kid on Christmas getting a sweater instead of something 
 more exciting when there's no OICW, no sniper rifle and so on. Weapons that are there are hard 
 to use, and have a ridiculous low amount of extra ammunition available. You constantly run out 
 of ammunition, no matter how much you try to spare on it. Also, an SMG with a grenade launcher? 
 Only in HL2 perhaps.
  
  The game plays way too easy and it is too short. I finished it in two days, which is not that satisfying 
 considering the fact that this game has been in development for seven years! More than one element 
 of the game feels rushed, which also is peculiar considering the long time it took to get the thing 
 out on the market. The feeling of a fresh new experience like the original game is nowhere to be 
 found, in spite of the source engine. This mostly because playing around with the physics engine 
 is childlike joy-fun for about ten minutes, but after that it becomes tedious.
  
  The strongest part of the game is the graphics, but even the visuals aren't THAT great. Both Far 
 Cry and Doom III outdo this game in this area hands down. The sounds sound rather uninspired, especially 
 the weapon sounds. Voice-acting is good, dialogue is not so good. This brings me to the story. 
 The "story" in this game is some sort of sorry mess that leaves you with more questions than answers. 
 The ending of the game is as anticlimactic as it gets. Open endings are risky but ok, however they 
 should not make you want to throw your monitor out the window out of frustration.
  
  Anyone who has not been hiding under a rock for the last five-six years or so have played Counter-Strike 
 just as much or little as they wanted to. Much like the first thrill of the physics engine, Counter-Strike: 
 Source's improved visuals are fun for a few minutes but then well... You get the point. All in 
 all, HL2 is a huge disappointment, it's not much more than a mediocre FPS, but no one seems to 
 care since it is praised as the 42nd coming of Christ. I find it a strange world we live in when 
 a game like Doom III gets complaints for only having good visuals and nothing else, and the only 
 thing HL2 really has going for it is its graphics? I recommend trying this game beforehand if you're 
 planning a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2... wow... where to begin...
  
  Half-Life 2 is the sequel to perhaps one of the most ground breaking games ever created, the famous 
 Half-Life. At the time of its release, Half-Life was the first major leap in gaming, it featured 
 some of the most cinematic gameplay ever created and really raised the bar, the sequel, Half-Life 
 2 is continuing that tradition... it has not only changed gaming, it's raised the bar and started 
 a new culture of gaming all on its own.
  
  Critics of Half-Life 2 gave some pretty amazing quotes, but at first you might be skeptical, before 
 I actually played the games, I questioned them a bit, here they are:
  
  "Nothing will ever be the same..." - Game Informer
  "The Best Game Ever Made!" - PC Gamer
  
 
  These are pretty big claims if I may say so myself, but to be completely honest... nothing will 
 ever be the same and this just might be the best game ever made... Half-Life 2 is an experience 
 everyone should endure.
  
  Half-Life 2 combines several game engines and creates its own world, the Havok engine, the physics 
 engine that runs Half-Life 2, is one of the most impressive physics engines ever, it is so complex 
 that it alone makes for an impressive show, this engine creates the laws that everything in the 
 game obeyts.
  
  The Havok engine establishes the laws of gravity, friction, bouyancy, inertia, etc, but in a captivating 
 way never before seen in gaming or in animation as well. Objects from rocks to trucks obey the 
 laws set by the Havok engine, each item has a realistic weight... also there are many puzzles throughout 
 the game that involve weighing down one side of a see-saw like platform with objects heavy enough 
 to give you a boost up to a higher locale.
  
  This engine allows for some of the most insane visuals and technicalities to be expressed as true. 
 You will really believe that this world, created by Valve, exists... you will be amazed and fully 
 awe struck by the sheer perfection in this game, there is so much to do and the game has some great 
 cinematic moments that you will never forget, making you want to play it again and again. 
  
  Now on to the Source engine, the visual and graphically dominant engine. Half-Life 2 boasts 
 some of the most impressive graphics ever seen in a game. Half-Life 2 even surpasses Doom 3 in 
 the visual field, in all aspects... in Doom 3 the enviroments, all dark, although Doom 3 utilizes 
 a good lighting engine, Half-Life 2 fluctuates between night and day, showing off both good lighting 
 as well as good sunlight and solar flares, which is an all around visual spectrum that is almost 
 so impressive, it's like an art.
  
  Valve's Half-Life 2 is definately a game not to be missed. It will forever leave a lasting impression 
 on those fortunate enough to play the game on it's intended settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hans-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the sequel to one of the best first person shooters ever, Half Life. It has taken 
 valve forever to finally release it, and the wait was worth it. HL2 delivers pretty solid gameplay, 
 amazing graphics (granted you have a good pc) , great sound, and amazing physics. All of it is blended 
 quite nicely to make the greatness that is Half Life 2.
  
  While it brings little to the genre itself, it feels like its predecessor. Which is a good thing. 
 
  
  
  
  You have probably read all the praise about this game, so instead, I will focus of the bads. First, 
 the weapons. While there is a variety to them, many feel very weak and underpowered. Since when 
 did it take two-three shotgun blasts in the face from point blank to take someone down? The smg 
 is quite possibly the weakest gun ever. Remeber the Klobb from Goldeneye... think that, but a wee 
 bit weaker. Sure it shoots fast, but it takes about a whole clip (45 bullets) to take down a foe. 
 The few weapons that do feel powerful are rarely used, since ammo is sparse for them.
  
  The story is ok. Nothing great, but it isn't horrid. It answers some questions, but leaves more 
 to be answered. The ending was a bit of a let down for some reason. 
  
  
  
  Overall though, Half Life 2 is a worthy sequel that any fps fan will enjoy. If you haven't played 
 previous versions of half life (such as HL1, Opposing Force, CS: Condition Zero, and some others) 
 spring the extra 10 bucks and get the silver edition off of steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgepsp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about a game that i lost slept over for over a week. Man thank god i got this 
 game before the baby was born. I couldn't put the game down i kept playing and play. One word REVULTIONARY. 
 There not a single word in the english dictionary that explains the feeling i have when i play 
 what is in my opion the best game i've played since warcraft 3 which in my household is next to 
 heaven. Well you've heard all the great press about this game and all are an understatement. Please 
 this should be on everyones must have list. Everyone should own this game. Only thing is the game 
 screwed up my harddrive with fragmented files. I now have to reformat my whole hard drive which 
 is a real pain in the butsky, but it was worth it. Enjoy the game everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 20, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time that many gamers had to wait to see the release of one of the most anticipated 
 games of all-time. After six years of anxious waiting and agony, the release to one of the greatest 
 games of all time, the original Half-Life, had finally hit shelves. It's been a long road ahead, 
 but Half-Life 2 finally made it in stores. Honestly, Half-Life 2 is one of the most astounding 
 and simply stunning games that I have ever played, and can only be classified as one of the few 
 greatest games ever created, and it was definitely worth the wait that we all had to endure.
  
  Once again, in Half-Life 2, you take control of Gordon Freeman, the hero of the original Half-Life. 
 The story picks up after the incidents and events of the Black Mesa Facility. Now that Freeman 
 is working for the mysterious and inscrutable G-Man, Half-Life 2 is set in an Eastern Europe location 
 which is simply called City 17. City 17 definitely isn't some ordinary city that is all happy and 
 whatnot. City 17 is a mysterious city of utter despair where its distraught inhabitants are literally 
 kept under lock-and-key. Within City 17, you'll be battling aliens, marines, and other enemies 
 along the adventure.
  
  Half-Life 2 really begins as Gordon Freeman arrives at City 17 upon a train, and then you'll be 
 treated to an interactive introduction, which has been used in similar games like DOOM 3, for example. 
 Its not a massive aspect to the game, however its this flowing mentality that proceeds throughout 
 the entire experience and ensures that Half Life 2 (much like its original) never breaks the game 
 up into gameplay and then cinematics  its one cohesive experience from start to end. You can 
 easily tell after seeing the cinematics that you're in for a real treat, and in fact, you definitely 
 are.
  
  The early stages of Half-Life 2 pretty much explains about Gordon Freeman, and why he is here at 
 City 17. It's based around a sci-fi setting, so sci-fi fanatics won't be disappointed at all. Half-Life 
 2 also has some nice humor, quick reactions, and tension moments that you'll be sure to enjoy. 
 It was meant to keep the gamer truly hooked onto Half-Life 2, and succeeds easily, and then some.
 
  
  Despite making the acquaintance with one or two familiar faces during these opening stages, the 
 game takes on a very quick tempo as youre chased from the inner areas of City 17 and have to make 
 your escape by whatever means necessary. From here on out, you'll be treated to action-packed scenes 
 and have a true thrilling factor.
  
  First off, the big new thing and feature about Half-Life 2 is easily it's physics, comprised by 
 the Havoks Physic Engine. Most game are already annexing their own physics engine into their own 
 games, but this time around, Half-Life 2 doesn't have it's physics engine just for fun. You're 
 going to have to use the abilities of the physic engine to get past consequential and significant 
 parts in Half-Life 2, and it's a crucial ability you need to learn.
  
  About the physics, you can virtually pick up any object within the Half-Life 2 world and watch 
 how it behaves and acts so indefectible and irreproachable to the real world and life we all live 
 in right now. Picking up concrete blocks really have a real sense of weight, while cardboard boxes 
 will just simply fly up in the air. Its not long into the game however before you realize that 
 this actually serves a purpose, and not merely an added layer of visual candy. Half-Life 2 allows 
 you to think for a short second or two, consider your surroundings, and be able to use them to 
 your advantage. Half-Life 2 has done a flawless job here, and hopefully soon enough publishers 
 and developers will learn from Half-Life 2 and incorporated these type of things into their own 
 games.
  
  Despite adding a new layer to the already impressive gameplay, the heavy use of physics within 
 the game also makes everything just look so damn cool, not to mention increasing the level of authenticity; 
 blowing up a bridge will see planks of wood splinter off into different directions and start a 
 chain reaction with a truck dropping and providing you with supplies. There are pretty much an 
 endless amount of things you can explore with the physics engine, so you'll definitely be hooked 
 with the physics of Half-Life and find out what you can do next.
  
  Quite possibly one of the best weapons ever introduced in a video game is the Gravity Gun. Without 
 the Gravity Gun, you won't be having much fun with the physics in Half-Life 2. You can take any 
 useless or inanimate object, and use it as a deadly weapon of some sorts, whether it be a saw that 
 can cut through the zombies in Zombie Alley, or just a barrel to smack your enemies left and right. 
 The sheer amount of fun to be had from the Gravity Gun is nearly unmatchable, whilst it proves 
 to be unbelievably useful particularly on the numerous occasions when youve run out of ammo.
 
  
  In case you didn't even know, Half-Life 2 still boasts the regular and traditional weapons, like 
 the shotguns, machine guns, pistols, and everyone's favorite little weapon, the crowbar. Grenades 
 and bombs will also come in handy, and you'll definitely have a lot more fun with these weapons 
 than you did in the original Half-Life.
  
  Half-Life 2, not surprisingly, isn't just a regular run-n-gun game where you can use this 'strategy' 
 to get out alive. Only thing that'll happen is get you easily killed. This is why, in Half-Life 
 2, there are strenuous puzzles that will need to be solved in order to continue. The original Half-Life 
 had somewhat similar puzzles, and you can bet to expect that there will be more and more puzzles 
 filled in Half-Life 2. The puzzles, not to fear, do not give you a boring or tedious feel to Half-Life 
 2, but in fact they up the ante and give you a more thrilling feel instead. You can expect fun 
 puzzles while blasting the hell out of many enemies at the same time.
  
  The A. I. in Half-Life 2 is easily what you expect... the type of A. I. enemies you've been wanting 
 to face. Half-Life 2's A. I. truly raises the bar for the genre, simply because of it's extraordinary 
 talent and all the bells and whistles. Not only can enemies traverse around the environment and 
 area to easily track and hunt you down, but also use various objects as cover and call in assistance 
 from nearby colleagues. The headcrab zombies are also smarter than you have expected. They have 
 the ability to throw things at you just to harm you in any way possible. You'll have to dispose 
 of them quickly, because they're much more deadlier than the headcrab zombies in the original Half-Life, 
 and that's a darn good thing to take note of.
  
  Visually speaking, Half-Life 2, hands down, one of the best-looking games out there. Just the sheer 
 variety of astoundingly detailed textures on display, creates a realistic and varied look far removed 
 from anything else I have seen on the PC. The character and enemy models are flawless, and they 
 truly excel in the PC world. You can literally see, if you look closely upon a character's face, 
 their facial muscles move as they talk and speak, and being able to see light reflecting off the 
 body and whatnot is simply unbelievable.
  
  The backgrounds and environments of Half-Life 2 are astounding and it wouldn't hurt to take a minute 
 or two and explore the environment and see the area that you are currently visiting. Everything 
 in the environment looks so realistic, whether it be the water, the dirt on the ground, or even 
 the sky. Everything in the game has looks, and it seems everything has their own unique look and 
 feeling to the environment.
  
  The detail of the weapons in Half-Life 2 have never looked so good. All of the weapons in Half-Life 
 2, ranging from shotguns, to even the crowbar all have their own unique look and feel. They all 
 look spectacular and well-done, and it seemed a lot of effort was put into them, and upon looking 
 at the detail, it truly shows.
  
  The sound in Half-Life 2, I did have a bit of a problem with it, but it's still outstanding nonetheless. 
 The real problem with the sound in Half-Life 2 was the fact that the music really wasn't outstanding 
 as I had hoped for. I felt that the music didn't provide the right 'sense of feeling' of an environment 
 and that it seemed as if the music was there for really no apparent reason. It was sort of like 
 a useless feature that definitely could of been worked on. If it had been done, Half-Life 2 would 
 of been perfect and flawless, but really, that's my only complaint.
  
  As with the sound effects and the other sound areas, they all exceed very well. Hearing the cries 
 of pain of people falling to their deaths, and the creepy ambient sounds throughout each environment 
 was truly outstanding. The sense of atmosphere created improves the whole experience immeasurably.
 
  
  As for voice-acting, the excellence of the sound can also be found here. The voice actors sound 
 as if they are actually in the game, so they're actually superb. The voice-acting is clear, manifest, 
 and crisp pretty much all the way through the game. I enjoyed hearing these characters be brought 
 to almost real life, which was very superb.
  
  Half-Life 2 also comes with some extras and other neat things, to keep the value going longer. 
 Depending on which package you can spend your money on, you will get Counter-Strike, Day of Defeat, 
 Half-Life Deathmatch, and even the original Half-Life all redone with today's technology. Consider 
 all that paid for just for buying Half-Life 2. It's definitely worth the price on whatever package 
 you consider to get, so you'll really never get old of what Half-Life 2 has to offer.
  
  Half-Life 2 is complete with utter brilliance that just calling it a great game is an understatement. 
 It's more than a great game. It's a very near flawless game that is packed with plenty of goodies 
 you'll be enjoying for many, many years to come. Half-Life 2 raises the bar on the FPS genre, and 
 almost certainly Half-Life 2 can't be matched, and it probably won't for a very, very long while. 
 The physics engine is perfect, and the graphics are visually stunning, and being able to buy any 
 package you want with some added bonuses thrown in is excellent. The music in Half-Life 2 was the 
 only real complaint, as it wasn't as crisp and just felt like it really didn't have a meaning towards 
 the environments in the game, but the sound effects and voice acting were of excellent standard. 
 Half-Life can simply be classified as one of the very few greatest games ever created, and anyone 
 with a pulse needs to play Half-Life 2 immediately, as it easily defines the phrase "video game". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2005 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Some how, this game still managed to amaze me. As some of you may know I had high expectations 
 of this game, and expected it to be nothing less then amazing, and it wasnt, it amazed me, but 
 even more then I had expected it, or wanted it, to.
  
  It starts off classic Half Life style  on a train, to some unknown city, in some unknown place, 
 to do something. well, unknown. Now I dont want to spoil anything for anyone with the story, but 
 this city is known as City 17. When youre on the train youll notice the amazing graphics, even 
 on the lowest settings, they will still make you gowow. Upon getting off the train you will notice 
 a lot of activity, and also the very dynamic physics at work. It really sets the feel for the game, 
 as the city seems gloomy, and when you get off the train seeing the things going on makes you feel 
 very low. Which works well for the game, since this city is not run by the common people, its 
 full of Combine soldiers, and guards, who are quick to use force to keep you inline. 
  
  Upon venturing further, youll come upon a guard who knocks a can off a waste basket, and tells 
 you to pick up. This shows you a few things, one, it shows the physics of the game. Yes, something 
 as simple as a soda can, will show this. The can will react nicely to the floor, showing respect 
 for gravity, and the laws of motion and friction. It will also lead you to notice you can, in fact, 
 pick certain things up. In order to avoid spoiling the game, I will stop with references to the 
 story line here.
  
  Something in this game aside from the graphics, and physics, are the faces and facial expressions. 
 People are no long one dimensional, expressionless, blob of pixels. They will react to things with 
 body gestures, and facial expressions, not only that, but do it very realistically. That and when 
 they talk their mouths move in a manner thats no longer flat or dull, but more human like (that 
 isif they are human) .
  
  Just so you know, they didnt spend all their time on the physics, and facial expressions. The 
 level designs, textures, and the overall feel of each section in this game is unique, and fits 
 that part of the game well. Each level is huge, and loading times between are short, and sweet, 
 so you spend a lot of time playing. This isnt to say that each level sucks. Saying that would 
 be failing to see the beauty of these maps. I know the second time I played thru this game, I sat 
 back at once spot, and just admired the city I was standing before. Its enough to give you chills 
 looking at this dark, run down, city. Now alien infested.
  
  Not only the buildings and such, but the enemy/alien models themselves, they look pretty scary. 
 I know theyve sacred me a few times just because of how they look when you dash around a corner. 
 Some parts in this game even have a resident evil feel to them. only its HL2 style, and done very 
 well. The levels are huge, and offer a lot to do in each, so try not to get side tracked too muchthough, 
 if you do, its understandable.
  
  I found myself spending hours upon hours just playing with the physics, throwing barrels down hills, 
 throwing things out windows, knocking cars around, and blowing things up. Just the way things react 
 in this game to each other are amazing, and actually add entertainment to the game. I know to see 
 a person with their leg stretched over their head, lying on their stomach, looks pretty weird. 
 Or hitting a guy with your buggy, and seeing his leg skid across the ground as his body interacts 
 with the ground.
  
  So far Ive made out the enemies to be idiots, right? Getting hit my cars and stuff. Well, theyre 
 really not that stupid. Imagine this (a story from me playing) . I have the game set on Normal, 
 Im in a house, I was just run down by 7-8 Combine Soldiers. I ran in a door, and in any other 
 game Ive played the people will run in right after you, thru that one door you came in, they will 
 all try to cram in that one door, and you will mow them down. I thought to myselfperfect. Boy 
 was I wrong as could be. I was sitting there, waiting, all of a sudden I hear glass break, and 
 see the red streak of two grenades. So I jump into the room next to me, still facing that one door, 
 then from behind me Im being hit by a hail of gun fire  another door. So I turn around and return 
 fire, and then thru the door I was watching, come the other half of the soldiers.
  
  Sound like a fluke? Dumb luck maybe? Its possible, except that it happened twice, and two different 
 occasions, in two different buildings, in two different cities. So I was amazed. The AI has a very 
 nice ability to problem solve. Whether its by jumping thru a window, throw grenades, executing 
 plans, they will get to you, and try to kill you, and way possible.
  
  Speaking of which, the game has three difficulty levels: Easy, Normal, and Hard. Easy is very nice 
 for beginners to the series, and maybe even to FPS games, since the computer will help you aim 
 at targets, the AI is almost toned down a bit. On normal you no longer get help aiming, and everything 
 is, well, normal. Hard you get no help aiming and your guns actually do less damage then before, 
 and the AI will own your ass if youre not careful!
  
  As if this amazing single player game that would make any fan of the series giddy with joy, they 
 updated it with a multi player death match mode. Which is pretty cool. You basically get online, 
 find a nice map, join, and youre right in a fire fight. Running down anyone you see, with any 
 gun in your arsenal. Becausehey, who wouldnt want to kill a friend with a dresser shot from a 
 gravity gun?
  
  Here we have a bit about what I think of Steam (from Counter Strike review) . As most everyone may 
 know Steam is a content distribution program and makes getting patches and games a breeze. It has 
 all but replaced the WON network, and now players have a STEAM ID, rather then a WON ID. This has 
 sped up the process of getting things fixed in games. Since it is so easy for people to get them 
 since it is all automatic. 
  
  It also has a friends list, which works a lot like AIM. You have a buddy list and you can IM each 
 other back and forth, even while in a game. You can also play parlor games against a friend; like 
 checkers or chess. Now, this friends list is cool, but it is down a lot, but lately that has been 
 changing and it has been up more. 
  
  There's also a nifty server browser that lets you add servers to a list, called your favorites, 
 so you can find them fast! It also lets you filter the servers with such thing as ping, map, and 
 game being played (i. e. Counter Strike, Day of Defeat) , even the number of players! 
  
  Well, Counter Strike is a very customizable game, with many different skins, sounds, sprites, etc. 
 available for download. It also has thousands of servers to choose from all across the globe, with 
 tens of thousands of players on at any given moment. This game is sure to please nearly anyone 
 that picks it up, there will also always be people on to play with, and so you will never be left 
 out in the dark. Not only that, but it comes with Steam, which will make your life so much easier! 
 
  
  Overall. everyone needs to buy this game, if you can run it on your PC, by any means, you have 
 to buy this. It will provide hours upon hours of alien killing goodness, then when its all over, 
 you can take it online, frag your friends, and then gear up for some Counter Strike Source. You 
 wont spend a better $50 on entertainment, I can almost guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentos37
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2005 2:52 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 took 6 years to make but alas it is finally here (does the happy dance) , Is it worth 
 the hype?
  
  Yes, it is Mr. Freeman and it surpasses the bar set by it's predecessor by leaps and bounds.
 
  
  The story is rather confusing and I won't spoil it for you, not even a hint. 
  
  The graphics, dare I say as good as Doom 3? I dare, the reflectiveness of the graphics is so good 
 that I could not believe my eyes. The visuals are absolutely remarkable.
  
  Gameplay, solid, shooter, need I say more? No, probably not but I will tell you that shooting things 
 gets old after awhile, unless! There are driving sequences that are, get this, FUN. For the first 
 time in the genre!
  
  Sound, great, the basic HEV suit sounds are good and with Lou Gosset Jr. lending his voice talents 
 they have a great voice acting team. Go ahead, pat yourselves on the back.
  
  Value of this game, I have replayed it twice and it gets better every time! Though multiplayer 
 only comes through steam in the form of Counter-Strike: Source and Half-life 2 Deathmatch (waiting 
 for Day of Defeat: Source) the multiplayer is quite addicting.
  
  I loved it, a true gem, game of the millenium (this millenium :P) and worth the 60 bucks i paid 
 to get it, CS: source, and DoD: Source. Pick this game up
  
  CAUTION: Playing on Easy may be WAAYYYYYYY too easy for experienced gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackerelmundee
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 17, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  I wont even bother playing this game again. Sure the graphics are great but the measure of a game 
 is depth, variety and choice of weaponry and value for money. Don't bother with this game. It took 
 me only two weeks to complete this game from start to finish and the end of the game was a real 
 anti-climax. When all said and done this was a game with the same old boring formula that once 
 made Doom so successful but it is now of course dated in many respects. I would suugest there are 
 many other games that would be worthy of your opening your wallet up to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercubs54
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2005 3:58 am PT
Review:  Just got it am playing it to prepare for a review. Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q QQQ Q Q Q Q Q Qq Q Q Q Q Q Q 
 Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q QQ Q Q qq Q Q Q Q Q Q QQBWHGQH QH GHQG HQ GHQ GHQGHQGHGQHQGHG h h hh h hgh gh 
 ghghghgh h fdg fg ds fds f dsf dsf dsfdsf dsf dsfdsfdsfdsfdsfdsfdsf ds d sdf sdf sdf sdf sdf ds 
 f d f sd f ds f ds f ds f d s fds f dsf dsf dsf ds d sf dsf ds f ds f dsf ds f sdf sd. The review 
 scores are from what I have played at my freinds house, and a computer arcade. afsdf sdf sdfsdfsdfsdf 
 sdf sdf sdf sdf dsf dsf sdf sdfsdf sdf sdf sdf sdf dsf sdf sdf sdf sdf dsf ds fsd ds f. s s d d 
 f df s d f sdf sd f sdf d f sd fs df df ds f sdf f d s d f d s df s d f sd f ds f sdf d sf sd asdasd 
 asdasds dasdsa dasdsadasdsadasd as d sdsa dsad asd sad sad as dsadasdasdsa sad sad asd asdas das 
 a dasdsad sa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS3-SS
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2005 12:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  
  This games deserves a 10 on gameplay, and mostly because of the Source Engine. Just a revolution 
 in videogames. The Source engine provides incredible realism, a realism that wasn't imaginable 
 before.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  This game has one of the best graphic qualities to date, if not the best. If RE4 is the best looking 
 game on consoles, Half Life 2 is the best looking game on PC. The graphics are just eye candy.
 
  
  Sound: 10
  
  The sound is greatly incorporated into the game. You hear what you must hear, and the music provides 
 that feeling of suspense, action and terror. Greatly done.
  
  Value: 10
  
  The price is right! For $50 (and some improvements to your PC if you don't have a High End PC) , 
 you'll get weeks and weeks of fun. Plus all the mods available for this game make Half Life 2 an 
 unforgettable experience.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9
  
  The game is superb, great, impressive, but is not that perfect game that every gamer is searching. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainDingo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 has gone through a lot of sludge, but when it finally came out, what we learned was 
 that all the delays and problems were more than worth it. In fact, let's be honest. If there's 
 a more stylized, witty first-person shooter out there, I have yet to see it.
  
  Once again we're thrown into the well-fitting shoes (and gloves... just play the game) of Gordon 
 Freeman, known as a legend for being the accomplished theoretical physicist who battled his way 
 through Black Mesa and for being able to beat people senseless with a crowbar, among other things. 
 And those shoes have never felt so comfy. After a confusing journey, Gordon is plopped into a train 
 station that normally would have you going to Nova Prospekt. What you soon find however is that 
 you'll be spending a lot more time in the city you travelled to than you think.
  
  Gordon will be "guided" through the game by the G-Man, the man shadowing Gordon through his journey. 
 When you start off, you'll realize that the city you begin in is horribly oppressed, and sort of 
 resembles something out of the Twilight Zone. The Combine, a strange group of soldiers and police 
 officers have City 17 completely locked down, and practically everyone is abused and constantly 
 being frisked or beaten with a stun stick (which doesn't feel good, by the way) . Through the game 
 you'll meet familiar faces such as Eli Vance, Dr. Kleiner, and Barney, as well as some unfamiliar 
 faces such as the Black Mesa administrator Dr. Breen (who you never actually saw in Half-Life, 
 and in Half-Life 2 acts as sort of a big brother figure that watches over the Combine's iron grip 
 and helps it along) and Eli's daughter, Alyx.
  
  Before I explode, let's talk graphics. The first thing you probably notice the second you get off 
 the train is that this game makes the best use of physics in any game. Everything from bottles 
 of bleach to suitcases to hand carts, to crates to even glass bottles have realistic weight, friction, 
 buoyancy, and resistance to breakage. You can pick up a glass bottle and throw it against the wall 
 and it'll shatter into pieces. If you want, you can pick up each broken piece and throw it around, 
 too. All of this helps add in its own way to the atmosphere of Half-Life 2. An atmosphere that 
 would be almost for nothing if the graphics engine couldn't pull off an impressive presentation, 
 and luckily it does just that. Water ripples everything above it that reflects onto it, ragdoll 
 physics, bump-mapping is used to achieve subtle lighting realism, and the fact that the characters 
 are the most expressive in any game, period, cannot be overlooked. You'll occasionally see other 
 great effects such as the blur right above fire, and rippled glass effects look awesome. The textures 
 are all sharp and detailed, the animation is top-notch, everything is downright professional grade. 
 The Source engine is worthy.
  
  Gordon's arsenal features many weapons that aren't actually all that strange. In fact, many of 
 them could indeed be compared to real-life representations in some way. Among them is your pistol, 
 which actually serves a relatively useful purpose throughout the game with its decent long-range 
 accuracy, and the bottom-loading shotgun with enough stopping power to stop, well, anything. The 
 shotgun's alternate fire fires off a simultaneous double shot, which should kill pretty much anything 
 in one shot as long as you hit them with it dead-on. There's also a machine gun that doubles as 
 a grenade launcher, of course Gordon's signature crowbar, and a few other goodies. Actually, sometimes 
 you'll find that the best way to defeat your enemies is not to shoot them (traditionally-speaking) 
 at all. This is where your gravity gun comes in. The gravity gun (also known as the zero-point 
 energy field manipulator... you don't have to call it that though if you don't want to) can pick 
 up objects, any objects as long as they're not too heavy, and drop them to the ground or blast 
 them at foes. Or if you'd like, you can simply punt objects from the ground. Objects like cars 
 are a bit too heavy for the gravity gun to pick up, but they can be punted, if only a very short 
 distance.
  
  One of the best parts about Half-Life 2 is how varied your gunplay may be. I've seen people who 
 prefer to run through the entire game using almost nothing but their shotgun, people who go through 
 the game using almost nothing but the gravity gun (a slightly difficult but more gratifying feat 
 if you can manage it) , or just whipping out whatever seems best at the time and going for variation. 
 Each way works as long as you're good at the method you're attempting. Fighting with the gravity 
 gun, however, is usually the thinking man's method of fighting. You can lift broad objects and 
 use them as a shield (until they break - unless you're using a sturdy object) , or pick up heavy 
 objects like tables or barrels and launch them at a group of foes, knocking them all to the ground. 
 When you get the hang of it or want to have a little fun, you can even use the physics engine to 
 your advantage by perhaps stacking tires and boxes to get a vantage point on an old tool shed, 
 or do other things most people don't ever think about, like blocking doors with heavy objects or 
 building yourself a small bunker out of scrap while you're being beaten down by droves of Combine 
 (a useful idea especially on harder difficulties!) .
  
  The action in the game is great, and so is the AI, for that matter. While the AI is nothing revolutionary, 
 you'll find that foes do the clever things that you'd expect out of this generation of AI. They'll 
 hide behind absolutely anything they can, or crouch behind boxes, peek out from behind pillars 
 and fire off shots, and even take cover behind flipped tables. If you block a door off while you're 
 inside a building, they'll try and break out a window and fire in at you if they can't manage to 
 push the door open. Sometimes however they will display less-than-brilliant tactics such as leaping 
 out into the open, running at you, and firing, though admittedly if I were a Combine soldier and 
 I was in a situation where I was screwed no matter what, I'd likely do the same. During each big 
 action sequence, you'll hear one of many great music tracks that help to engage you in the mood 
 of the fight, and these pretty much always come in the form of some hard rocking techno beat that 
 keeps you on your toes. The sound in the game is great, at least for what little there is, and 
 all of your weapons sound like they hurt pretty badly. You'll also hear some recycled sounds, but 
 don't be turned off. The sounds recycled are mostly HUD sounds, and they really help to keep the 
 original feel of your HEV suit intact from the original Half-Life.
  
  Throughout the game you'll encounter a fair share of puzzles in addition to the action sequences. 
 All of these puzzles include fair use of the physics engine and act as a great demonstration of 
 how advanced the engine truly is. Whether you're weighting a single side of a see-saw to get to 
 a higher place or using the power of buoyancy to lift an object out of the water, everything reacts 
 as it should, and it all works as a great occasional escape from the Combine's indiscriminate onslaught.
 
  
  What more can be said? Half-Life 2 is an excellent game. Add to the fact that you can download 
 a Deathmatch mode for free off Steam, and it comes already equipped with Counter-Strike: Source, 
 which supports frighteningly-intelligent bots, and you've got one deliciously sweet deal that no 
 person who calls themselves a gamer (a first-person shooter gamer, at least) can ignore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  
  This game was simply worth the wait. Half-Life 2 is a great sequel to the original Half-life and 
 it basically delivers on all possible cylinders of a gamers taste. The game has an immersive story 
 and has a creepy eerie feeling all the way through. The Combine have invaded the planet and are 
 holding human citizens captive. You, Gordan Freeman are battling yet again to save humanity from 
 a variety of illustrious creatures who seek only your demise. With a decent arsenal, Gordan and 
 the rebels fight back against the Combine invasion and wish to restore the planet to safety. 
 The game keeps you at the edge of the seat with excitement and anticipation for the next sequence 
 of events or calamities. Your crowbar is still with you as you attain rocket launchers, grenades, 
 smgs, assault rifles and other futuristic weapons. 
  
  The game allows you to explore the surroundings you are within while not allowing you to get lost. 
 There are many creepy chapters in the game like the citadel or an old graveyard run by a psychologically 
 scared priest. I dont know if its just me but when you mix religion, aliens and killing, the 
 game is quite freaky. The Combine are generally easy even at higher difficulties but they can still 
 inflict a decent amount of punishment. The game is in-fact quite short; if you play straight through 
 the game you could probably be done it in 15 hours or less. The game keeps you immersed in the 
 action and in fact doesnt make you want to shut down your computer and go to sleep. I dont want 
 to spoil the story if you have not played the game yet but the end makes you THINK and allows you 
 to tie in loose ends which can be quite fun if you have a wild imagination. The game has two main 
 online types; Half-Life 2 death-match and a remake of the most popular online game ever Counter-Strike 
 Source. 
  
  Half-Life 2 death-match does not have many maps at this current point but there are many downloadable 
 custom maps which you can play. The online function is basically a kill whatever moves idea. 
 Lag can be present even at higher connection speeds but generally does not affect the game-play. 
 The gravity-gun is possibly the most fun aspect of online play which allows you to shoot sinks, 
 crates, barrels and other miscellaneous paraphernalia at your enemies. 
  
  Counter-Strike Source is a newly rendered version of the old game of the same name. The maps have 
 been re-modified with the source engine and are typically quite appealing. The game-play is basically 
 the same as its predecessor with the same weapons and the same idea (either diffuse a bomb or rescue 
 hostages) . This online addition is great for fans of the first game and will defiantly lure new 
 fans to the counter-strike world. 
  
  The game-play is very straight forward with crouch, jump and sprint functions. You use your mouse 
 to aim at the various enemies on the screen and your character is very responsive to your demands. 
 The controls are very basic and anyone can pick up the game and enjoy it. If you are not a regular 
 first-person shooter gamer, you will still be able to cut a big hole in the Combines assault 
 on the planet.
  
  The graphics are almost perfect. The game looks very realistic and the characters are extremely 
 detailed. For example, freckles, dimples and veins in the eyes can be seen. Half-Life 2 ranks near 
 the top of the graphic battle with Far Cry and Doom 3. The game is even fun to look at. I found 
 myself gladly watching while a friend took a hold of the action. The water is crisp, the sky is 
 real and the rock/wall details are surreal.
  
  I typically didnt find anything that appealed to my liking in the sound department. The game had 
 the usual sound effects of gun-fire, exploding objects, enemies conversing, but other then that 
 it seemed unstimulating. The addition of music during various sequences in the game keeps you at 
 the edge of your seat and will make you honestly push the sprint button at times in fear of death 
 or alien captivity. The sound creates a generally creepy atmosphere with various times of excitement 
 and anticipation.
  
  Overall the game has lived up to the hype behind the curtains. The game delivers a large scale 
 adventure with twists and turns along the way. You find yourself immersed in the action and sometimes 
 feel that your own world is being invaded. The game makes you feel like a hero. Half-Life 2 is 
 a successful sequel to the inspiring original and the game will definitely be double-clicked 
 on the desktops of many gamers for months and perhaps years to come.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedweasle
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review:  i recently just got a new pc, so for the first time i had the chance to play hl2. The graphics 
 are amazing as well as sound and multiplayer, but the real accomplishment is the gameplay which 
 is by far ties and in some cases surpasess hl2. one has occured to me, bad ai. The physics engine 
 is the best and the most amusing i've ever seen, but without it i might have not bought the game, 
 that says somthing. As for a whole this game matches halo 2 in my book and may be a little better. 
 but halo 2 has something hl2 doen't xbox live that might push halo over it. i love voice communication 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  xbox live gamertag: a crazedweasel
  
  if you think i'm fake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderHawk_m82
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely amazing! The best fps ever made with an incredible engine, especially in phisics. Single 
 player is very good but multiplayer (Counter-Strike and HL2 Deathmatch) is even better!
  Gameplay and graphics are the strong point but the others are also very very good.
  The best 
 of the best, everyone should at least have one copy of this game. This game reminds us how good 
 and "real" a game can be :D New mods will be launched soon and then this game will even rock more, 
 great job to everyone that contributed to HL2.
  Here begins the next generation of video games, hurray!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefscorn
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  This game is much better then Halo 2 (in my opion anyways.) And better then MGS3SE (which in my 
 opion is the PS2 game of the year.) First of all this has one of the best stories ever. Pluse it 
 is the sequel to one of the best game ever made. And if you never played the first Half-Life it's 
 comes with Half-life 2. The 1 Half-Life is better looking then any other then any other version. 
 Also Counter Strike Source, which is fun fast past action. But I will say that this game will not 
 look that good unless you have a really powerful computer. The sound is the high quality, MGS3 
 and Halo2 quality sound. As for the gameplay, it is of corse a first person shooter that runs perfect. 
 Some games the camra sucks but they made it like Halo2 but since it's on the PC it's easier. The 
 wait for this game is worth it, and its value can only be measured in gold. Also it runs of something 
 called steam. Which makes it run faster. All I can say is that it's just the game of 2004 that 
 came out of no whear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kage_prototype
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2005 12:33 am PT
Review:  Has there ever been a more torturous and cursed development process for a video game, than that 
 of Half-Life 2? It boggles the mind as to how the guys and gals over at Valve Software managed 
 to keep going, even after source code leaks, international embarrassment at the hands of September 
 30th 2003, year long delays etc. I'm sure everyone and their dog, at some point or another, wondered 
 if Half-Life 2 was ever going to reach the light of day, or join Duke Nukem Forever as what may 
 never be. But they finally did it, after six long years, and while this might seem a predictable 
 time to start spouting how god-damned brilliant this game really is, the excitement is fully justifiable. 
 Because it really is that god-damned brilliant. So mad propz to you Valve. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is the sequel to one of the most influential action games of all time, the original 
 Half-Life, which was released in 1998. Storywise, it's been a good number of years since Gordon 
 Freeman "accepted" the mysterious G-man's offer for employment at the end of the first game, and 
 it seems Gordon is now finally ready to wake up. After a cryptic speech from the G-man, Gordon 
 finds himself on a train inbound for City-17, a police state in every sense of the word. Arriving 
 at the train station, a large screen greets Gordon, the face of an official-looking man greeting 
 passengers to the City, claiming it is "safer here" when all other signs point otherwise. NPCs 
 wander around the station, avoiding eye contact, keeping to themselves, all of them wearing identical 
 blue overalls. Security guards tell you to move along when you get close, and will reach for their 
 stun baton if you don't comply. Outside the station, another large screen is present in the courtyard, 
 and the police seem to be doing a random search of the local apartment blocks, arresting anyone 
 who seems to look suspicious. 
  
  It's a powerful opening, made even more-so thanks to the game's unique narrative techniques; once 
 again, you never leave Gordon's eyesight. There are no jarring cut-scenes, setting transitions 
 (save for a short loading session in between maps) or voice overs, and Gordon never speaks. Instead, 
 Valve have opted for more of a "show, don't tell" approach to the game. In order to fully appreciate 
 and understand what has happened since the Black Mesa incident, you must train your eyes to search 
 for clues, small snippets of information gained from a newspaper clipping or propaganda video. 
 While there are other characters who explain certain things to you (who act in a stunningly realistic 
 fashion and have some incredible voice work) , they never seem to take the time to explain what 
 has happened. It is because of this obtuseness that the story may seem a little thin around the 
 edges, when all the clues are effectively right in front of you; you just have to find them. Still, 
 the game does seem to raise more questions than it answers, and while the ending hints at greater 
 things to come, you sometimes can't help but think you're being left in the dark on purpose. It's 
 almost patronising on occasions. 
  
  Of course, I am not here to discuss the story, I am here to tell you why this game plays as well 
 as it does. And this is because of the sheer amount of things Valve has managed to squeeze into 
 the game. While titles like Doom 3 and Far Cry effectively repeat the same core gameplay over and 
 over for each level, each of Half-Life 2's 14 chapters offers something new and interesting. For 
 example, in the zombie-infested village of Ravenholm, the player doesn't find much ammo, but DOES 
 find a lot of saw blades and large metallic objects. Coupled with the game's star attraction, the 
 gravity gun, and you have a recipe for hours of never-ending zombie slicing fun. The chapter after 
 that, however, has you flying across huge stretches of highway in a turbo-powered buggy, shooting 
 crazed Ant Lions with the attached Tau Cannon. In another, you're leading a squad of soldiers against 
 vast amounts of combine troops (including 50-foot walkers called Striders) , and another sees you 
 jetting across drained canals in an airboat, avoiding a gunship's dropped mines in front of you. 
 Thanks to this seemingly never-ending amount of variety, the game throws you along at such a finely 
 constructed pace, you find yourself playing for huge amounts of time, wondering just what the game 
 will throw at you next. 
  
  At the centre of all this is the almighty gravity gun, which you pick up around a third of the 
 way through the game. Without this weapon, Half-Life 2 would still be a finely crafted, excellently 
 paced FPS. But the gravity gun adds such a huge dimension to the gameplay that by the end of the 
 game, you can't imagine doing anything without it. With the ability to pretty much pick up anything 
 not bolted to the ground and throw it at enemies, it has to be one of the best weapons ever devised. 
 Yet, as the game progresses, the weapon suddenly becomes much more than just an offensive device. 
 You use it to make your buggy the right way up if you crash, or to create make-shift bridges to 
 avoid stepping on sand (for reasons which I will not divulge) , and can even be used to reach boxes 
 of ammo and health from over fences and out-of-reach places. The uses are endless, and thanks to 
 an incredible physics system, everything has a realistic sense of weight. Even without the gravity 
 gun, you can pick things up on your own, using Gordon's hands; but you're not able to pick them 
 up from great distances and fire them off at a huge velocity, nor can you lift very heavy things 
 like washing machines and large pieces of wood. It's a fantastic tool, and may end up replacing 
 the crowbar as the Half-Life series' iconic weapon (assuming it does become a series, which it 
 most likely will) . 
  
  The gravity gun isn't the only weapon available, thankfully. While it is fun to rip off a radiator 
 from walls and throw them at people, it isn't always best suited for a situation. The rest of the 
 weapons on offer are mostly the trademark FPS standards many come to expect from the genre, such 
 as a sub-machine gun, a rocket launcher (with guiding laser sight, so you can swing a rocket around 
 in mid-flight) , and an awesome shotgun. There are a couple of interesting additions as well, more 
 specifically the pulse rifle and bugbait, to accompany the standard armoury you'll be carrying 
 around. First off, the pulse rifle, while it may seem like a normal machine gun, is probably the 
 best machine gun I've used in a game for a long time. The accuracy is spot on, the reload is non-existent, 
 and the sound provides the sort of kickback you'd expect from this behemoth of a weapon. Granted, 
 there isn't much ammo for it, but when you do get to use it, it's very fun to use. The other note-worthy 
 weapon on offer is the bug bait, which can be used to control a species of alien called the Ant 
 Lions. Using this bug bait, you can instruct them as to where they go and who they attack by simply 
 throwing one of the pods as you would a grenade. While it seems simple enough, it's a surprising 
 amount of fun to send them in front of turret fire so you can sneak around them. However, not all 
 ant lions respond o the bug bait, such as the Ant Lion Guard, which don't seem to be too happy 
 with you sending it's children to their death over and over again. 
  
  However, what would be the point of having weapons without anything to try it out on? Well, there 
 are plenty of enemies to use these things on, and while a few have been cut since we've seen them 
 in previews and such (the Hydra for example) , there are still a great number of things to fight. 
 For example, as well as the standard type of zombie, there are now two other types, one being a 
 frightening dog-like version that jumps across rooftops at an incredible speed and pummels you 
 up close. The other is a slow poison zombie, which throws poison black headcrabs at you. Being 
 an arachnophobic myself, I found these headcrabs to be utterly terrifying; huge, hairy, black headcrabs 
 that slowly stalk you before jumping at you from out of the corners, hissing at you like a venomous 
 snake. The most common type of enemy are the combine forces; the police and soldiers of the alien 
 race that has seemingly taken over Earth. While their AI isn't anything revolutionary, they still 
 do a pretty good job of trying to kill you. I've been witness to a number of flankings and grenade 
 flushes over my time with the game, and they're always fun to fight with. The only oddity is that 
 they don't seem to run away when wounded, unlike the US marines in the original Half-Life. But 
 for the most part, the AI of the human enemies seems to do it's job. A few enemies return from 
 the original game, including headcrabs and barnacles, as well as the alien slaves, who seem to 
 have joined your side of the struggle. 
  
  However, a discussion of AI in Half-Life 2 can't finish without mentioning the dissappointing friendly 
 AI. Yes, they are able to give you cover fire and take out large squads of enemies just as well 
 as the combine forces can take out you. The problem is that they become a large nuisance in tight, 
 cramped areas, where they will constantly block your path and refuse to move out of the way. Instead, 
 they will just move ahead of you a few paces saying "Sorry Freeman" over and over. In the wider, 
 open streets and courtyards, they're a joy to fight alongside with, giving you medipacks and ammo 
 and covering you when you hide. But in the buildings and such, they simply didn't seem to work. 
 You can command any friendlies following you to go to a certain areas, but that is the extent of 
 giivng commands, and they always seem to end up following you anyway. 
  
  However, this is a small criticism, and for those of you who are still wondering whether the game 
 lives up to it's hype, I can safely say without hyperbole that it exceeds the hype. There are so 
 many things I could talk about that make this game so essential, but to do so would be spoiling 
 the surprise. You can really tell that six years of hard work has been poured into this game, and 
 the perfectionist attitude of Valve Software has paid off. Not only is this game one of the best 
 action games of the year, I feel inclined to say that it's simply one of the best games I've played, 
 period. And to think, this is really only Valve's second game, a company still in it's infancy 
 in terms of production output. Imagine what they'll accomplish in the years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junkmandude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  After many delays, Half Life 2 the long awaited game has finally arrived in a time of several game 
 releases, yet it still manages to rise to the top in PC game sales even after 3 months of being 
 released. 
  
  What is the game about? Well on one hand you have Gordon Freeman who appears to be whisked in to 
 some time in the future to City 17 by the G man and deal once again with an alien invasion (the 
 combine) . You will be traveling through many different environments and parts of the city and will 
 meet some new and old friends from the first game. You are basically in a prison-city environment 
 that the combine currently controls and it is up to you and some freedom fighters that you will 
 meet through out the game to put a stop to the iron fist of the combine. There are also some side 
 stories that will bring other characters lives and history, further details to the plot of the 
 story and while there is not a overabundance to these stories, there is enough to keep the story 
 moving along and add interest to the feel of the game.
  
  The game also features lush environments and very good graphics. The graphics are probably not 
 the best around for todays standards but very close. This game is also very taxing on a PC system 
 so to enjoy the most the graphics has to offer you will need to have a powerful PC with one of 
 the newer graphics cards that supports direct x9+ with shadow texturing. Not that you will not 
 be able to enjoy this game with a lower system, as I assure you I do not have the latest graphics 
 card in my machine yet and everything still looked awesome, just not the best it could be. 
  
  The other amazing thing about this game is the physics. I cant even begin to really say enough 
 about this. Not only does everything seem to look and feel as if you are playing in the real world 
 but they also play into the puzzle solving aspects of the game as well. From the items that you 
 can stack, items that will float, and items you can send flying with the gravity gun and more. 
 Start a chain reaction by shooting a flammable barrel in an area of several flammable barrels and 
 watch the fun begin. You can even interact with different parts of the environment as well. Certain 
 wooden items can be bashed with the ever famous crowbar. Hit them again and again and watch them 
 splinter into small pieces of wood. Look for things up above eye level that you can interact with 
 and cause to fall on your enemies. Also enjoy using the different vehicles in this game as well 
 from air boat to the dune buggy. Use them to interact with the environment as well. Watch out combine, 
 were coming through. 
  
  If you buy this game of the shelf it will also be bundled with Counter Strike source a multiplayer 
 online game that puts two teams against each other, the terrorists and counter terrorists. You 
 can find out more on this game on a separate review.
  
  To validate your Half Life 2 game you will also need an internet connection and allow Steam to 
 be installed on your PC. Steam will also provide you with directs updates and patches and will 
 also allow you to play other games that Steam offers. Some are for free like Death Match and others 
 require payment. 
  
  I hope that this review has helped you make your decision to buy this awesome game. If you have 
 any questions or feedback on this review please send me a PM.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  You have great AI, characters, story line, weapons and everything else in one game and you get 
 once hell of a good game.
  
  Gordan Freeman returns in corrupt world and battles his way through combine and other creatures. 
 The games AI is some of the best that I have ever seen in a video game. Never once did one of the 
 enemies run away or turn around. The other thing that impressed me was the fact that their is mass 
 in everything. So your gravity gun can't pickup everything but it can pick up some objects. Which 
 brings me to my next positive note that you will be using your gravity gun for almost everything. 
 You can grab objects and construct a path so you can walk across or you can grab your enemies and 
 throw them around. the weapons in the game are well designed and their is no overpowered weapon 
 in the game. Every weapon has a advantage and a disadvantage. Two complaints i have about this 
 game however, is the Steam software and Loading times. Steam is an interface designed to manage 
 what games you play. The problem is though is that you can't play any of your games if your not 
 on Steam. If your internet is messed up for a certain time then your out of luck. Loading times 
 are frequent in this game. Consistently your brought up to one while your driving or operating 
 a your boat. Sometimes the game would even freeze on me while it was still loading. These tiny 
 little issues aren't going to mess up your gameplay that much though. However, just something to 
 look out for. I enjoyed this game from beginning to end and you will too. We have waited a long 
 time for this and now that it has finally come it's worth to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wood_Spirit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know where to begin. Half-Life 2 is a fantastic game, obviously with a few cracks 
 per se, but still prevails as the most engaging FPS. And since there are already a good 300 reviews 
 for this game, I'll just give a quick outline of my opinions towards this work of art we call Half-Life 
 2.
  
  First of all, the Source engine. This is probably the reason why this game is so distinct from 
 other FPS's. Everything in Half-Life 2 moves with realism, as if set right in the real world. Source 
 is not only a fantastic achievement in the gaming industry, but out of it too. I don't even think 
 computer generated movies have such amazing physics as this game. This drew me right into the game, 
 engaging me with it's stunning realism, as it will you.
  
  The graphics in this game are very flexible, and great at the same time. Although they don't compare 
 to some games like Doom 3 and Far Cry, they're still fantastic. My PC isn't all that great, so 
 I couldn't really tell you how good they are, but my PC runs the settings on medium extremely smooth, 
 so that right there is enough for me.
  
  The sound in Half-Life 2 is incredible. The music isn't really there much, but occasionally it 
 will start up in a heated gunship match or a gunfight between you, the rebels, and the combine 
 soldiers ect. The voicing is absolutely perfect. I am somewhat dissapointed at the lack of varied 
 sounds for monsters though. Zombies and headcrabs always let out that same creepy noise over and 
 over. Dispite that, the combine have so many different commands they can voice over to each other, 
 which really, really, blew me away. They communicate with each other, and plan things out before 
 hand. Obviously from that, you know that the AI is completely mind blowing.
  
  The adventure you go through as Gordon Freeman is good, but not the best. If you haven't played 
 Half-Life (I hate to admit it, but even I haven't) it's a bit hard to understand even at the last 
 stages of the game. The ending was really dissapointing, but it's only a small drawback. The story 
 could be better, and that's the bottom line.
  
  The multiplayer action is amazing. I love it. Playing CS: Source and Half-Life 2: Deathmatch is 
 one of my favorite things to do now, and more than one occasion I've stayed up all night playing 
 either one. For me, that says it all right there. Although their aren't too many developer made 
 maps out yet, whoever it is that makes the maps, is making them. The communities of both are huge, 
 but not exactly the nicest bunch of people to play with. Their are hundreds of player made maps 
 already, and still growing. The multiplayer action is great.
  
  Overall, Half-Life 2 is a fantastic game. And for those of you who are worrisome about not being 
 able to run this game, don't. It runs on just about every PC. Also, don't forget to check out the 
 tweaking guide on the HL2 gamespace page somewhere. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of the first Half-Life, I played it for the first time in '02 and didn't really enjoy 
 it all that much. But that didn't stop me from taking interest in HL2, and I'm so glad I got this 
 game for Christmas. I'm not going to go into a in-depth review, there's already a lot of other 
 reviews on this game. I'm just going to tell you what I liked and didn't... and there's not alot 
 I didn't like.
  
  Gameplay-Very good gameplay IMO, great story telling, drivable vehicles, alot of interaction with 
 NPC's, the physics engine is awesome, good enemy AI, and very cool environments. The only problem 
 I have is when using the squad, sometimes they would step into my line of fire.
  
  Graphics-Awesome graphics, everything looked very good.
  
  Sound-Awesome sound, guns and explosions 
 sound very powerful.
  
  Value-It's worth it to play this game over when you finish it, and it comes with Counter Strike: Source 
 for online multiplayer.
  
  This game is amazing, the graphics, sound, excellent environments, and great enemy AI make for 
 a very enjoyable FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zayas_81
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Half Life 2 I was not ready for what I was about to experience. I had not followed 
 the game through its many delays, nor had I checked out the movies, nor screens, I just wasn't 
 a PC gamer. But something in me told me to get this game. When I first saw the details on the G 
 man's face I was blown away, getting off the train and into the station, more magic began to happen. 
 The detail on the people's faces, the uneasiness and the pure horror that is City 17 was clearly 
 expressed in their eyes. The Orwellian atmosphere this game projects is its greatest asset, that 
 along with the best graphics in gaming, great sound, and a story that grabs you so tight, you can't 
 believe it lets you go so soon. To say this game is beautiful is an understatement, in every aspect, 
 the game's graphics are stunning, you just have to see it to believe it, and thats all I'll say 
 about the graphics, its that simple. To me one of the most ingenious things this game is able to 
 achieve its the way the story is told, simply there is no better pacing in gaming. The way that 
 the developers made ways to keep us gamers not only interested, but also at the edge of our seats 
 is amazing. From an airboat that controls amazingly, to an exhilaring dune buggy, to using the 
 best physics I have seen in any game to not only add realism, but to incorporate it into an integral 
 aspect of the game, Half Life 2 is just a master piece. The weapons in the game are very precise, 
 there's a kick back when you fire, and you can almost feel the rumble, even if there isn't any. 
 The most fun I have ever had firing a weapon was with the laser guided rocket launcher, there's 
 just simply nothing better than firing your rocket and laser guiding it to the rear of a Cumbine 
 airship. There are moments in this game where you will stop and say: "I'm I playing a game, or 
 is this a movie, or I'm I living this?" the set pieces are that good. The AI is intelligent, flanking 
 you and taking cover when necessary, they also wait for back up, or just simply try to lure you 
 in. Also, this game has the most terrifying level I have ever played: Ravenholm. Trust me you will 
 be scared in this stage, is simply terrifying. Believe it or not, there is something I did not 
 like about the experience, and that is Steam, its just so intrusive, and downloading the game took 
 me like 4 hours, and that is with a 500kbps connection, that is simply unacceptable. With that 
 being said, Half Life 2 is an instant classic, even if you are not a fan of the genre, you owe 
 it to yourself, not only as a gamer, but as a human being, to experience the technological, theatrical, 
 gaming marvel that is Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skater03
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  The greatest game of all time and the best part of it all is counter strike. Which is done with 
 the new source. which will have u online for weeks, months, or (of cource) even years.:) u must get 
 this game seriously even if u have a 56k modem or whatever dialup counter strike i've heard plays 
 quite will on those modems expect for some lagg but little. (im' speaking about counter strike 
 source online. Any way u most get this game that's why im giving it a 10 in everything any way see 
 yall in counter strike. peace :) 
  p. s my screen name on counter strike is -=homersimpson {chris} =- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 4, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Valve topped Half-Life 1 in style, it was a wait of six years but it was worth it. Half-Life 2 
 surpasses every expectations that I had and delivered more. 20 hours that I spent playing it were 
 the finest of my gaming experience. It was one of those games that make me proud of being a gamer. 
 For me, Half-Life 2 is the best game I have ever played.
  
  I will not discuss what has been raved about in other reviews. I will just describe my feelings. 
 The game is full of those 'wow' moments, where you are left stunned and say 'Oh! My God...'. For 
 me these moments alone were enough for a wonderful experience but Half-Life 2 is much more than 
 that. I remember playing the air boat level and when one of the big chimney/tower is hit by a rocket 
 and falls in your way, it was simply a breathtaking and stunning sight, everyone watching was awed, 
 it was something in the context of that particular moment very simple, you are escaping on an air 
 boat at very high speed without giving much heed to the surroundings and then it draws you back 
 and makes you experience something that you havn't experienced before. It was the genius of game 
 design.
  
  Being 'Gordon Freeman' is a fascinating experience in itself. Narrative style used by Half-Life 
 saga is very unique, and in Half-Life 2 coupled with the most realistic depiction of a depressed 
 world and character models/animation in a computer game made it an extremely personal experience. 
 I cared about the world, people around me and myself (Gordon) . There was a feeling of 'realism' 
 in how the interaction between main characters is handled and presented that was previously unthinkable 
 in older games and I didn't observe it in other recent games either (even in the adventure games, 
 another genre that I follow) . 
  
  Half-Life 2 is innovative, but how? It is difficult to describe. Of course there are physics puzzles, 
 gravity gun etc. But may be for me the whole experience was very refreshing, may be because it 
 had a very high level of sophistication or the sum of the parts was much greater than the whole. 
 May be this was not innovation but the perfection, still the whole experience was 'new' in that 
 sense.
  
  The story is not too complicated, at least not for me, I am not bothered if I completely deciphered 
 it or not, like most sequels in the trilogy it ends with a cliffhanger, which is fine. The part 
 that I enjoy most is the narrative style. Every story can have different narrative, and for Half-Life 
 saga as I mentioned before it is very unique. I like this kind of narrative because it gives a 
 sense of freedom, you can construct it the way you want it, somethings comes into perspective when 
 you think about it later or play it again.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a work of brilliance that encompasses the realms of art and technology. Game design 
 is flawless. If Valve promise to improve it, and I hope they will, I have no problems in waiting 
 another six years for Half-Life 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeRuInEr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  There have been many games out there that had very good stories while others delivered gorgeous 
 graphics as well as some others delivering some great sound and exceptional voice acting. But no 
 game has ever really delivered the full package. Half-Life 2 does just that.
  
  Powered by developer VALVe's miraculous Source engine, Half-Life 2 is a visual smorgasbord. However, 
 the graphics are at its weakest with the shadows which aren't near as good as Doom 3, but still 
 very realistic. The graphics of Half-Life 2 are the best in a PC game yet. You can literally see 
 the gleam in a character's eye. Characters also give convincing facial expressions as well as accurate 
 lip-synching to every word they say. The characters aren't the only things that are beautifully 
 rendered; the free-form 3D world, weapons, and vehicles also look astonishing. And while Doom 3 
 had realistic shadowing and bump-mapping, it didn't really create a believable environment, But 
 Half-Life 2 looks extremely photo-realistic.
  
  Not only are the graphics good, but the physics are phenomenal. Cables will sway in the wind, bodies 
 hit the ground and bounce and they would in real life, not to mention that there is a very neat 
 weapon in the game called the Gravity Gun. Not to sound like a Marine, but the most powerful weapon 
 in Half-Life 2 is your mind. You can use the gravity gun to pick up barrels and use them as a shield 
 and then throw them at the enemy to kill them. Wow.
  
  There are actually a few celebrities that voiced some characters in Half-Life 2, such as Lou Gossett, 
 Jr., Michelle Forbes, and Robert Culp. The voice acting is extremely well done and sounds very 
 clear. Not to mention you can download different language packs for Half-Life 2. Bueno!
  
  Unfortunately, every game has a few downsides, and Half-Life 2 has its share of them. First, the 
 storyline is a bit disappointing with no explanations and a crappy ending, but hopefully it'll 
 be told in Half-Life 3 or in a future expansion pack.
  
  The gameplay is awesome. There are many scripted sequences, and for some reasons, items such as 
 health, ammo, and weapons seem to appear right where and when you need it, thanks to fantastic 
 coding which informs the game if you're running low on ammo, and drops an ammo pack or two at a 
 nearby checkpoint. Later on in the game when you fight alongside rebels, the game will also detect 
 if you're running low on fighter and spawn a few extra nearby.
  
  However, the rebels will tend to get into your way sometimes. The AI is good, but they should know 
 that just because I want to investigate a closet that they should cram in with me. Don't get me 
 wrong, the AI is fantastic. For instance, I tried to barricade myself in an abandoned home and 
 put a table in front of the door to keep the Combine soldiers from getting in. They kept kicking 
 and kicking until they gave up and shot through the windows. I heard one of them say "break the 
 barrier!" and SMASH! The door crashed open and I was killed in seconds.
  
  In conclusion, Half-Life 2 is THE best game on the PC to date, at least until Half-Life 3 comes 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCheif20
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2005 12:07 am PT
Review:  Ok let me start off saying this game should of won GOTY. Just because Halo 2 sold alot more doesnt 
 mean it was the better game. Half-Life 2 has a way better singleplayer than Halo 2 and i think has 
 about the same or even better multiplayer.
  
  
  Graphics - Top noch. I think there better than Doom 3's graphics. There amazing, the water looks real. The 
 player models are even better. Also the Lip-Sync (*cough* Ashlee Simpson *cough*) are A-M-A-Z-I-N-G..... it 
 looks like real people talking.
  
  
  Sound - Also top noch from the guns to the helicopters. The explosions sound real, when the bullets 
 hit the water sound even better. And explosions in the water! WOAH! ;) .
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is awsome, from the singleplayer to the multiplayer. The singleplayer has 
 you feel like your in the world or being in a movie. The multiplayer is just as good, has all the 
 guns from the SP. Your also able to pick your player model,10+ different multiplayer models to choose 
 from. About 7+ MP levels also.
  
  
  Value - The value is great, its the sequel from one of the best FPS / PC games ever. This is deffinately 
 a buy. 
  
  
  The only draw is you need a pretty good comp to run it. GO BUY HL2 NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adgal98
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  After wait for this game for months, I have to say that the waiting definetely worth it!
  
  After play Doom 3 I though the graphics on PC difficultly could be improved. But Valve got it!! 
 The graphics engine it's the coolest thing in years in the videogames industry. 
  Textures, landscapes, models, water... a truly masterpiece.
  I'm playing in an Athlon 64 Mobile 
 with a ATI9600 on widescreen and the result is flawless.
  
  The history has a high level of suspense, action and that touch of science fiction that we always 
 love in the videogames. 
  
  The music that starts in the very unexpected moments of action, give you a high level of adreanaline, 
 plus the surround, you can live a true experience in the City 17.
  
  Maybe the details in the model could improved, by example, when you are on the swap-vehicle over 
 canal, the bike is drove by its own. Some hand from your character would look great.
  
  The gaming online is also very smooth. The downloadable maps and mods are also very cool!
  
 
  A game you can miss... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaAznGamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Sequel to one of the best cinematic games of the late 90's. The improved Quake III engine Valve 
 utilized for Half Life is still critically acclaimed, but now, the new Half Life 2 engine, Source, 
 sets another amazing technical standpoint in the first person genre. Although not as groundbreaking 
 or revolutionary as it's predessesor, Half Life 2 is still one of the most anticipated games of 
 2003 and 2004. Although the game was delayed quite a few times during it's production at Valve, 
 it still stands out as a remarkable game itself and a great succesor of it's previous generation. 
 And as we see in this game, technology has change during the 6 years Valve put into this project. 
 The engine is, like I said, superb. Blending it into the game engine quite well, with little flaws. 
 
  
  The multiplayer portion still can be improved, but with the single-player and multi-player, it 
 really comes out to becoming a great, great game. So buy it, with Valve's distrabution program, 
 Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimsonDS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Once again, you play the role of Gordon Freeman. Several years have passed since the 
 incident at Black Mesa. Gordon is sent to City 17, which is under the control of the Combine. The 
 Combine are very oppressive (it doesn't take long to figure that out) . Gordon was about to be transferred 
 to a prison called Nova Prospekt, but an old friend comes to the rescue. It is then that you get 
 some idea of what is going on. In short, the ultimate goal is to overthrow the rule of the Combine. 
 But, of course, you do a lot more before you have the chance to do that. 
  
  Like the first game, you see everything through Gordon's eyes. There are no cutscenes whatsoever. 
 The controls are pretty much the same, too. At the start, you have no weapons, but you soon get 
 the good old crowbar. As the game progresses, you'll pick up a variety of weapons such as a shotgun, 
 assault rifle and, my personal favourite, the zero-point gravity gun . I found all the guns were 
 useful at some point. 
  
  The realistic physics are one of the key elements of the game. For example, there is a puzzle early 
 on that requires you to move a ramp so that you can jump over a wall (using a certain vehicle...) . 
 You are provided with barrels to solve it. I didn't know how to solve it straight away, but I kicked 
 myself afterwards. I won't say anymore about that. Anyway, there are similar bits where you have 
 to think logically. Some aren't all that obvious, but it's very rewarding when you figure it out. 
 
  
  Oh yeah, HL2: Deathmatch and Counter-Strike: Source come free with it. Both are great 
  
  Graphics: 
 Very impressive. The characters in the game look very life-like. Even their eyes move around. There 
 aren't many games where you can see the characters have emotions, but Half-Life 2 manages to do 
 this perfectly. The environments are very imaginitive. You can clearly see the difference between 
 City 17 and Ravenholm. The water even becomes transparent when you get closer to it. 
  
  Sound: The sound is great. It goes hand-in-hand with the graphics to create the atmosphere of the 
 game. From the filtered voices of the Combine to the sound of a Stalker patrolling the area, they 
 really have given a lot of attention to the sound. 
  
  Plus Points: No cutscenes, interesting storyline, realistic physics and immersive gameplay. 
 
  
  Downsides: You will require a Steam Account. This means that you must have an Internet connection. 
 If you do not have access to the 'Net, you must move your computer to a friend's house to activate 
 the game. Failing that, you will not be able to play it. That is the only (but big) downside of 
 Half-Life 2 that I can think of. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealylife
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game was worth the wait, I loved the single player campaign. But I wished the story was better, 
 it was good. But there was a lot of unanswered question. Then again the game play was king, regardless 
 of the story. The physics is awesome; the gravity gun is one of best I ever used in a first person 
 shooter. But where the multi-player for half life 2, hopefully they will add more content for multiplayer. 
 Counter strike source is the same old game with brand new fresh paint. But overall the game was 
 worth the wait. Looks like valve will make another, god knows until how long it will come out. 
 This game is worth checking out; they delivered the hype coming with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bubba13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  Oh how I love Half Life 2, let me count the ways...
  
  These days the bargain bins are littered with first person shooters that didn't quite hit the mark, 
 those that ended up shallow, and bland lumps of crap. None of them can even compare to Half Life 
 2 in any aspect. Most FPS's aren't worthy enough to wipe the golden butt cheeks that are Half Life. 
 However, even though I rant endlessly about this games greatness, it isn't perfect. (But oh, so 
 close!) 
  
  I. Factors that prevent HL2 from being absolutely perfect.
  
  1.) The A. I. is not terrible, but when compared to all other aspects of the game, it leaves a little 
 to be desired. Granted, it is life-like and intelligent sometimes. But most of the time enemies 
 will decide to charge into my raging hellfire that is the SMG. When the A. I. is good though, it 
 can be frightening. For example, Gordon is in a small room with two windows and a door. Two of 
 the guards proceed to shoot through the windows while one sneaks in the door when my head is down. 
 I got blasted! But still, the lack of a tight A. I. in a game so near perfection everywhere else 
 is inexcusable seeing as A. I. in a FPS is pivotal. 
  
  2.) The Story: After HL1 so many questions were left unanswered that for 6 long years, I have suffered 
 endless sleepless nights. Me, stuck being wide awake pondering the possibilities. (Again, j. k. I 
 finished HL1 only a couple weeks ago) It turns out that after HL2 I just got left with more mystery! 
 No questions are really answered at all throughout the course of the game; which really is a little 
 disappointing.
  
  II. Things in the game that make my jaw drop.
  
  A.) Graphics: Holy Potatoes! Perhaps the most beautiful game out in the market right now. Facial 
 expressions are second to none. The environments are breathtaking. Character Models are freakishly 
 accurate/scary as hell. 
  
  B.) Sound: Wow, those zombie noises make me pee my pants.
  
  C.) Physics: I put this as its own category because it is the coolest thing about this game. 
 On the first level I sat in the playground for a half hour just messing around with the teeter 
 totter and cinder blocks. When running from the Combine you can stack objects in front of doors 
 to slow their progression, you can throw stuff at them, you can shoot saw blades at zombies with 
 use of the gravity gun. The list goes on and on.
  
  Gameplay: Not too hard to figure out, see bad guy, SHOOT SHOOT SHOOT!
  Gordon can sprint and 
 swim and jump and pick up objects and buy a soda, the game does well to introduce these things. 
 HL2 is fast paced, but does slow down and introduce a nifty puzzle once in a while. The A. I. is 
 hot and cold. (See above for further elaboration.)
  Control is pretty tight, except the driving is pretty hard to get used to. The game runs smoothly 
 with no glitches.
  
  Value: Great game with big differences between difficulty levels actually brings this FPS some 
 replay value. Also Counter Strike Source kicks @$$ so this game is totally awesome when it comes 
 to this category.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenuty
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2005 2:56 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite game to play online, The single player missions however wasn't that great.
 
  
  Gameplay: Basically most of the elements from the old Hl is there, its Mr Freemen with his super 
 crowbar. Same actions same controls nothing was really different except for some new guns. Though 
 the game story gets really intresting later on it just doesn't explain everything you're still 
 going to be really confused about whats going on
  
  Graphic: It has a very strange 90's look to it in a way but no doubt its still fantastic and very 
 descriptive. Great Facial movements in the game and the way the character moves and rolls when 
 they die are very realistic. Its really not graphics that saved it but the Physics of the game 
 where if you pick up a boot and throw it into a trash bin that it feels so real was what made this 
 game good. How realistic it felt when tossing things around or blowing it up, Very interactive 
 in environment and realistic will satisfy today gamers.
  
  Sound: I play this with 5.1 and does fine. Enviornment sound effects are nice, how the monsters 
 moan, and how the character voices are done are fantastic no doubt. Again from part 1 was how well 
 the music kicks in at the right time that gets your adrenaline going
  
  Value: Half life 2 was a worthy purchase though people with no internet connection will be really 
 pissed about how they cant play it without having to download a patch from steam to let you play 
 or how you gotta be online to let you play, its still understandable since valve had to go through 
 all that piracy. Half life single player was a good and entertaining game though counterstrike 
 and Half life 2 deathmatch is REALLY fun. Many of the mods coming out soon will also make half 
 life 2 a great game. I really suggest trying the demo before you buy the game because some of the 
 hardcore fans might just be a little disappointed in the storyline, because its just a lot of eye 
 candy. Still its worth the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burn6
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 31, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  The graphics has truly improved but expected and the levels possess the original half life characteristics 
 that will caught you in awe. The sounds are annoyingly the same; the suit, the headcrabs, etc. 
 the sound of weapons, not quite. 
  Don't get me wrong, I was the one who introduce half life to my friends and play it like 4 times 
 or so. But this time I'm not sure, the first one is still the best. After finishing the game I'm 
 left with "that's it?" I read some of the rave reviews saying this is the best fps game they played 
 maybe its their first half life game, for me it's average. I suggest they should play Chronicles 
 of Riddick EFBB. Or perhaps its because I played the first so many times that when I played half 
 life 2 its like a deja vu. I find the antlions as allies ridiculous, and the never ending spawning 
 of "freeman followers" almost useless. I want to drive that alien ship! The Use or Interact and 
 the gravity gun is a redundancy. I waited for this game for soo long, I can't say I'm satisfied 
 with this one and I don't think I will play this game again. The levels are truly stunning to be 
 fair. 
  Half Life 2: Opposing Force possible? *fingers crossed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 30, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 was waited and waited for. And the wait is worth it. I got it on the day it came out 
 and it is great. The graphics are amazing. There is so much detail in everything. There are pigeons 
 flying around and greatly detailed buildings. The faces on the characters are really detailed too. 
 
  
  The gameplay is better than Half-Life's. HL2 takes the puzzles from Half-Life and makes them even 
 better. Now with the new physics engine more realistic puzzles are put in. For instance in one 
 part you have to pick up cinder blocks and put them on one side of a see saw like contraption. 
 This will make it go up and allow you to get up to a ledge. The guns are fairly different and the 
 different uses of them are needed in parts of the game. So you can't pick one gun to use the whole 
 game. It's almost impossible to not die in HL2. There are many things you have to try out and usually 
 they don't work and end up with you dieing. So you try it over and over again until you find out 
 the right way to do it. You'd think this would be bad but it is actually quite fun. Some parts 
 in the game are a little scary and they are the parts of the game at it's best. at one part you 
 are standing on a building and these zombified people are crawling up on all sides. and since it's 
 first person you can't see everywhere at once. Ways you can interact with the enviroment include 
 picking up buzz saws and chopping zombies in half and launching enemies at other enemies.
  
  The sound is pretty good too. The voice acting is very good. Every human in the game talks. 
 This makes you become very involved. One problem I had though is if you looking slightly away from 
 someone their voice is very faint. So you are constantly looking from one person to another. But 
 that doesn't keep the sound from being good. Sound effects like bullets hitting metal are super 
 realistic. The sound of your footsteps depend on where you are walking.
  
  The value of HL2 is very good what with all of the mods available for the game keep you playing. 
 So even after the first player game is over you will still play Counterstrike and mods like that 
 for hundreds of hours.
  
  For those who say Halo 2 is better than Half-Life 2 I would say to them, "What has HAlo 2 done 
 new that no other first person shooter has done. They will say swords. Many FPS have swords. Vehicles. 
 Unreal tournament 2004? Joint Ops? Half-Life 2 itself? So in my opinion HL2 is the best FPS out 
 there. Go pick it up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2005 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was great. The visuals are excellent, the facial animation and characters in the game 
 act like actual living breathing beings. The sound is atmospheric and well done. The music never 
 gets in the way it amps up during the tense moments but stays pretty tame throughout the game. 
 The gameplay excellent. The single player portion is very immersive, you essentially are Gordon 
 Freeman. There are no cutscenes to watch. Everything is literally experienced through the eyes 
 of Gordon. The game's physics engine is superb. You can play around with just about anything you 
 see. And as far as multiplayer goes, it comes counter-strike source. Can't beat it with a stick. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, after 28 hours of playing on hard, using xfire to track this for the first time, I finished 
 HL2. It's simply a superb shooter. If you're a shooter fan you have to get this one. End of statement. 
 The pacing, the visuals, the physics, the scenes. It's all breath taking and really sucks you into 
 it's story line. There is not only the variety in pacing and environments, but also the small details. 
 The facial expressions, although you won't pay much attention to it, during heavy action, is simply 
 incredible.
  
  If I compare this one to the other big titles for 2004: Far Cry, Doom 3, Half-Life 2 simply takes 
 the cake home. The visuals are all very impressive on these titles, but HL2 offers more variety 
 and better cinematics. The use of physics and the Source engine are put to extremely good use.
 
  
  Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clearman90
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 28, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  when i first bought this game i was extremely disappointed. hl2 was very choppy, dm lagged way 
 too much, and cs was cheater city. after getting a 5500 gfx card and another 256 mb of ram, hl2 
 is an enjoyable experience. the selection of weapons is decent, a few i havent seen before. the 
 graphics are ok, mostly because my pc isnt really powerful. theres some good music to suck u in. 
 theres not much of a story, but theres just enough to keep u playing. its a long game, but most 
 of the segments are way too stretched out. theres a LOT of thinking involved here, so if ur looking 
 for run and gun, stay away. a lot of the mosnters are creepy, and they jump out of nowhere for 
 a few shocks. all in all, this is a good fps, not the best or goty as many had said. buy it, enjoy 
 it, and wait for some new mods. heres a warning though, make sure u have at LEAST this system or 
 else u will put ur hand through the screen (like i almost did)
  
  1.5 ghz processor
  geforce 5200/radeon 9200
  512 ram 
  a good chunk of hd space will be needed also
  
  dm 
 is boring and cs has too many cheaters atm, but the single player will keep u entertained for a 
 while. enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruzedwfc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  If you havn't been living in a cave for the past couple of years then you know about Half life 
 2 and all the hype thats been getting. And the big question is, after years of delays and lawsuits, 
 did it still live up to that hype? HELL YES IT DID!
  
  Half Life 2 will have you hooked from the moment you smash the first guy with you trusty crowbar 
 to the very last second right before the credits roll. In Half Life 2 you reprise the role of Gordan 
 Freeman, an ivy leagure graduate who somehow also is extremly good with weaponry. In an opening 
 cinematic you will get a visit from the G-man who will basically introduce you to the world. Soon 
 after you will arrive at city 17, and you will begin to walk around. It is evident just by seeing 
 this city how much time and effort valve up into this. As you walk around and look at all the buildings 
 and people you'll feel as if you were there.
  
  This in big part is thanks to valves new source engine. This does and incredible job of making 
 the world look realistic and adds some great physics to the game. This is actually one of the best 
 parts of Half Life 2. Because not too long into the game you will be given a gravity gun. Which 
 basically means anything you see on the ground thats not stuck in a wall or 2 tons, you can pick 
 up with your gravity gun and launch it. This adds a very interesting dynamic to the gameplay and 
 you'll find you may just spend countless hours just playing with it.
  
  One of the other great things that Half Life 2 does is with the variety of gameplay. It seems to 
 combine many different FPS genres into one. There are parts of the game where it seems more like 
 a horror shooter, where you'll be walking in a creepy graveyard or church getting attacked by zombies. 
 This is done extremly well and you find yourself jump out of your seat atleast once when a zombie 
 jumps out of the shadows and starts to slash you. 
  
  You will have some squad type battles where you will be in control of a squad of about 4 players. 
 Although you do have an option to tell to move to a certain place there really isn't much strategy 
 to it and you are better off just letting them follow you. In fact that is one of the minor faults 
 with that game. Your squad provides little or no help and leaves you to do most of the work.
  
  Throughout the game you will also embark on several driving segments where you will drive a 
 hoverboat type thing and a duner buggy. While these segments are very linear, you are confined 
 to a narrow canyon, there are still very entertaining and is vell paced making sure you dont spend 
 to much time in the craft and breaks it up with a shooting sequence or two.
  
  While the story is very good, it is disapointing, the game ends in a cliffhanger in more the one 
 way and it answers very few questions you will be asking your self throughout the game. The great 
 aspect about the story though is the way its told. You are always in Gordan Freemans perspective 
 and all the dialogue happens around you. While this means you can't skip and of the boring parts 
 if you don't care about the story, it makes you fell immersed like you are actually Gordan. 
  
  The sound in HL2 is also quite amazing. While there is very little music throughout the game 
 it will usually key in at just the right time to get you pumped up for a big fight. Overall all 
 the other sound is excellent, the voiceovers sound very convincing, and all the weapon sounds, 
 although not that realistic, arn't soemthing to complain about either.
  
  While the game only lasts a dissapointing 10-12 hours, there is alot of replay value here. While 
 you could go through and play the game again, you could also go play Counter-Strike: Source, the 
 Multiplayer aspect of them game. While it is excactly what the name says it is, Counterstrike on 
 the source enging, it feels fresh enough to provide many hours of fragging even if you have been 
 playing regular counterstrike for years.
  
  Very little has been changed in source. It is still in the basic terrorist versus counterterrorist 
 format, and you still play either a hostage rescue or a bomb mission. There are 9 maps that come 
 with the package, including Italy, Aztec and Dust, altough valve plans on releasing more maps later 
 on. Even is these maps are basically the same they add some new physics in, inclding some neat 
 ragdoll effects. Although it doesn't provide much strategy to knocked a barrel somewhere or push 
 some cabinets it is fun to smash them or see them go flying when you throw a grenade at them.
 
  
  The sound in Counterstrike Source is just as good as it ever has been in CS regular. Each gun has 
 a very unigue sound. This provids alot of strategy in the game. If you here the load constant stream 
 of an M-249 maybe you want to head the other way. Or maybe they only have a MP5? In which case 
 you may want to go an teach them a lesson.
  
  I have one minor gripe about CS S though. Although games usually remain enjoyable or atleast entertaining 
 when your team is cleary not up to par with the other, sometimes it can become flat out anoying. 
 In CS you use cash to buy your guns. You get this by doing such things as killing your enemys, 
 winning a round, or sussefully completly your mission. Cheaper weapons are thing like MP5 and pistols. 
 While when you get more money you can get things like magnum sniper rifles and AK 47's. This can 
 sometimes leave the game completly out of balance when one team can only afford a good pistol while 
 the other team is buying atuo snipers and M249's. While this is supposed to be balanced that the 
 bigger better weapons are more expensive, when one team wins round after round, these arn't to 
 hard to purchase and make the game less enjoyable.
  
  While there are some minor faults in the while package, there is very little to hate about it (except 
 maybe the ending) . And Half Life 2 is a must buy for anyone looking for an enjoyable, imerrsive 
 FPS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Special_K411
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  The wait is finally over. The sequel to the critically acclaimed Half-Life has finally reached 
 store shelves, and it was well worth the time it took to get there. Though the gameplay elements 
 are no longer as innovative as they were back in 1998, the introduction of the gravity gun, coupled 
 with jaw-dropping graphics, more than make up for it. 
  
  The first thing that players will notice when they finally get the game up and running are the 
 graphics. They are simply phenomenal. Technically speaking, Doom III and perhaps Far Cry are running 
 on more capable engines, though Half-Life 2's Source is certainly not a slouch in this area. The 
 game takes advantage of most of the features that modern video cards provide. Fortunately, however, 
 the game is capable of scaling all the way down to DirectX 7 level graphics, meaning those still 
 running their computers with a GeForce4 MX can play through the game, minus the more robust effects. 
 
  
  What sets the title apart from other recent games in this department is the artwork. The game takes 
 place in City 17, a gorgeous setting featuring some of the most impressive architecture to grace 
 a game yet. More astounding than the environment are the character models. Valve has created the 
 most life-like character models to date. All of the characters that players encounter are extremely 
 detailed and expressive. The subtle facial animations are nearly on par with modern CG films. 
 
  
  As great as the graphics are, the gameplay is what makes Half-Life 2 a game that all should play. 
 The forumla is very similar to Half-Life 1. Players will work their way through the game on a very 
 linear path, and are never given the opportunity to explore. This is actually for the better. Because 
 of the linearity, the game never loses its focus. As a result, players will have a tough time putting 
 this one down until they complete it. 
  
  In terms of play mechanics, the game is nearly flawless. The shooting sequences, which make up 
 most of the game, feel spot on. The biggest addition here is the gravity gun. Players can use the 
 gravity gun to pick up random objects and launch them at their enemies. This makes for some unique 
 gun fights, and is a very refreshing aspect of the gameplay. The AI is solid, though after six 
 years players might be expecting a bigger jump in quality. Beyond the core shooting sequences, 
 players will also solve some simple enviornmental puzzles. These puzzles only pop up ocassionally, 
 but they are quite good, most taking full advantage of the highly touted physics engine. 
  
  The only blemishes in the game are the driving sequences. There are two of them: one in an 
 airboat, and one in a dune buggy. The mechanics of the driving certainly aren't bad, but could 
 definitely use improvement. These driving sequences are the only times in the game where players 
 will feel somewhat detached from the experience. 
  
  Players will probably not notice the sound in the game; a sign that it has been done very well. 
 All of the weapons in the game sound significant. The voice acting is excellent. The music good, 
 though players won't be humming it in their spare time. 
  
  The storyline itself is not told particularly well. Many players will finish the game not really 
 knowing what just transpired. However, Valve makes this work. Knowing only the premise, aliens 
 are taking over earth and Gordon Freeman is leading the resistence, is enough. All of the story 
 events in the game are done so well that players will not mind the fact that they never really 
 know exactly what's going on. 
  
  As far as value is concerned, people will be playing the game years from now. The single player 
 is fairly long, lasting 20 hours or so depending on your skill level. Counter-Strike: Source, a 
 graphical face lift to the extremely popular multiplayer mod made from the first Half-Life, is 
 included. Counter-Strike tends to be a love-hate game, but the community is strong, and will likely 
 stay that way for years to come. The real value of Half-Life 2 comes from the countless mods that 
 will stem from it. The Source engine is a modder's dream come true, and if the first Half-Life 
 is any indication, the game will see countless mods.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a massive achievement. The game is a combination of everything great about video 
 games, and should not be missed by anyone who considers themselves a fan of the medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunishedOne
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2005 12:36 am PT
Review:  The perfection of the gaming industry has arrived. And yes, that's Half-Life 2.
  
  Half-Life 2 (Which will be called HL2 for now on, Half-Life 2 feels foreign to me since I use HL2 
 way too much :-p ) is THE game that just kicks the asses of any competitors it has on it's platform, 
 and genre. There is so much life, that you would want to hide the copy of Halo 2 so it doesn't 
 distract you (I did that, that way I can play a lot more CS: Source.)
  
  First off: Atmosphere.
  
  Simply put: It's a living world. It's a breath of virtual life. The 
 Graphics add to the atmosphere, creating outstanding realism. Hell, when you've played HL2, you'll 
 call every single game before it's release crappy-looking! HL2's only competition in visuals is 
 Resident Evil 4. Both of them put out the BEST realism graphics EVER made.
  
  Next, graphics.
  
  As stated in the atmosphere paragraph, the graphics are the best in any 
 generation of gaming, and pull you out of your chair, and just suck you right into the game. You 
 wouldn't want to leave the world. Characters are so real, you'll probably take orders from the 
 Combine by noding your head in REAL LIFE! Each character has their own personality. Water is so 
 clear, you can see what's on the bottom. Each level segment has an outstanding scale. Not to mention 
 so much variety!
  
  Enough breaking it down, I'll just blow it open.
  
  Sound, gameplay, graphics, atmosphere, controls, physics, EVERYTHING you could thing in a game 
 contributes to the sheer reality of what HL2 is.
  
  It's not a game, it's an experience like no other.
  
  The story is so thick, so thick that 
 you'll call a Final Fantasy game predictable. 
  
  Ever wonder how HL1 stuck around for so long? CS. That single mod gave HL1 a lifespan of 6 years. 
 Imagine what Valve can do with another 6 years, since they already have the Source engine.
  
  If you have a PC that can run HL2, don't wait on it. BUY IT NOW! You will NOT want to miss 
 out.
  
  To summarize it all up, HL2 is a gift from God.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizar10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is amazing, to put it firmly. Finally a game that we can call the bases for the next 
 generation of games, but for now is one of the greatest games out to the public. Half Life 2 is 
 a sequel to the great alien thriller Half Life released in October of 1998, which featured great 
 graphics and gameplay which kept every player on the edge of their seat. Half Life 2 is no different, 
 with a great physics engine, which allow things in the game to move realisticaly and act naturally 
 to an awesome story which pulls you in until your finished. With the breath taking graphics and 
 wonderful surround sound, this game not only lets you play it, it makes you believe you are in 
 it. With the exception of some minor glitches, loading times, and some computer requirements that 
 you probably want to have to see how the game was meant to be seen, there are no really big problems. 
 One big problem was the off-set release date which seemed to change every month, but the game is 
 out now, and nobody has complained since. Half Life 2 promises an atmosphere never created to date, 
 and is a one of a kind expirience, that no true gamer should go without.
  I truly believe it is one of the greatest games ever made, and shows what kind of game we can expect, 
 for the next installment in the Half Life series.
  
  Wizar10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefting_kill
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  Half Life makes you wonder what the name might mean, and we should soon find out. Half Life took 
 place in 1998, and presumed a revolution in the gaming industry, which is true, with its puzzle 
 solving and its unique action and cinematic view it places you into the game. Then Valve started 
 working on the sequel to the homerun game, Half Life 2. The takes place in, City 17, a place controlled 
 by Combine play roles as guards and soldiers. You, Gordon Freeman, want to escape this violent 
 city and set things right, I presume because he doesn't talk and you do good things for the citizens 
 of City 17.
  
  Gameplay:
  I sat for hours playing the single player experience, seeming a little on the short side with a 
 grim ending, it still plays out awesome through and through. You start in a place called City 17 
 as I wrote earlier, like in the previous game the beginning is slow, you end up in the train station 
 and walk through city seventeen thats after you meet your friend Barney, no not the purple dinosaur 
 we all hate and love, the guy that we don't know from Black Mesa, you have to go meet a man named 
 Dr. Kleiner, while doing so you meet a young beautiful girl name Alyx, set in the lab Dr. Kleiner 
 wants to transport you to Dr. Eli's lab, Alyx's father, another man you knew from Black Mesa, after 
 Alyx has transported successfully, you go for your turn and yet another failure happens to Gordon, 
 as usual, making you fight your way to Dr. Eli's. And it goes so on and so forth. Now this game 
 has a different feeling to it better than the first, when you first get your pistol and shoot down 
 a Combine guard, it just feels good, and you want to do it and kill more. The feel of this game 
 really caught my attention unlike the first one the cinematic view of this game is really in depth, 
 and just so fun to hangout to watch people talk to you and having their eyes movie every time you 
 walk around so they can have an in depth conversation. Although its all refreshing some of it is 
 a rehash of what was in the first, per say alot of shooting and puzzle findings, but it still is 
 addicting and hard not to play as well. As you go on getting new really awesome guns lets say for 
 instance the Pulse Rifle which is loud and can cause ear problems (only joking of course) , and 
 its secondary rifle has alot of strong power in it, there is also a Gravity gun which is way to 
 fun and I find myself enjoying every second of it. There is another addition to some of Gordons 
 moves he can now pick stuff up and throw it; it all depends on what he can throw by its size. Now 
 Valve has used a very good physics engine, everything moves in a realistic manner shooting stuff 
 around with the Gravity gun just put power into your hands. So the gameplay is refreshing yet can 
 get repetitive at times but for the most part it is just awesome. 9/10.
  
  Graphics:
  That are gorgeous, high texture quality, great bump mapping, and the lighting is perfect. These 
 graphics are by far the best I have seen in any game that I have played, and it just drops your 
 jaw looking at its highest settings just looking around, thats all you want to do sometimes stare 
 in awe. All the buildings have their own colors and textures, and everything is just so polished 
 and shiny its just so realistic. They have new facial animations that are just great they talk, 
 walk, and roll their eyes even in the most realistic manner yet to see in any game. Every character 
 model in this game has top-notch quality textures and facial animations making it feel as if you 
 in Half Life's world, in City 17 and other places you might go like Ravenholm, and a beach. Now 
 the lighting and the water reflections don't get me started, blew me away, everythings you see 
 near water is reflected and it looks like ill be drinking it soon its just so gorgeous, and the 
 lighting helps you out alot letting you know Valve has out alot of hard work into this game and 
 they meant to pleasure your eyes with its clear, polished beauty. I have only had a few glitch 
 problems but its happened a few times and not often at all. The way the guns look and react is 
 just really awesome, they all have their own look to them and they have some awesome jaw dropping 
 fire effects, just amazing. I love the Source engine and I hope they make newer models of it soon 
 for Half Life 3, if their will be one. I also think the explosions are just so massive destroying 
 everything in its path letting you know that some one lost an arm. So you know the graphics are 
 gorgeous and they have everythings you would want from reflections, to little glares in any place 
 it is needed. 10/10
  
  Sound:
  This game's sound is just great, it only has a few problems that need configuring but you can get 
 downloads to help from steam. I always like to start with the guns usually they always sound so 
 good, but this, oh man these guns are just ear drum piercing goodness, they have loud kicks and 
 they show it with pride. I like to here a combine scream when I shoot him and then I hear a little 
 flat line noise and think, hey I killed a guy, oh well he was bad. The combine sound like they 
 talk through a walkie-talkie from one end of the mask to the other end, its a cool thing just 
 weird. The explosions have a thundering shuddery noise that is just amazing, you'll here flat lined 
 noises after throwing some letting you know that the Combine have settled in 6 feet under the bed 
 sheets, the explosions just sound so impacted that its amazing its like your there and you freak 
 out knowing some guys just died than again I think they were bad who cares. The voice acting is 
 top notch actually, we have the G-man and his speech in the beginning and man can he give a good 
 speech, all the citizens have their own sayings letting you know what they're feeling and what 
 they want to do when its all over, MATE. But there is major flaws in the sound, mine had a flaw 
 were if someone was speaking through television set or a hologram I couldn't hear them so I went 
 to steam and downloaded something to fix it, at least it worked, but also some of the sounds in 
 the game are kind of weak like lets say the Dune Buggy, at one point you will be going fast then 
 you stop then go again your sound of the vehicle doesn't slow down with it sometimes and then the 
 engine will sound fast when your starting out and its just confusing. The water sounds are soothing 
 yet repeating yet again it can be good all in all but just repeats and repeats sometimes its just 
 weird. Overall great sounding guns, awesome voice acting, and only a few glitches keeping it from 
 being perfect. 9/10
  
  Value:
  All in all Half Life 2 is worth picking up and keeping not selling it for some money its a keeper. 
 It has a weird price tag of $54.99, which might be because of Counter Strike: Source, but who cares 
 thats also great as well. The storyline is great but a bit short I'm afraid but it is worth finding 
 out what happens next and you will be even more excited when your trying to find out. There is 
 variety amongst the guns and the way of weapons and how they work, and the acting this game is 
 amazing. I presume everyone should just go out and buy it, its that kind of game to just yell I'm 
 having fun and no one will try to stop you, because if they glance a peek at you playing it they 
 will want to watch for awhile like my cousins did. It's a huge huge game and the menu's change 
 during your current level, which is really cool, unlike Half Life 1's menus with just a plain screen 
 with Half Life flickering in the backround. Go buy I honestly think you will have a great time 
 playing it two thumbs up, way up. 
  
  Tilt:
  Valve has released yet another astonishing game. And great kudos to them from me. The game has 
 spectacular graphics, and just fun gameplay, and the sound also has its part in it to, if I were 
 you Id go get it now if not save and get it another time. Half Life 2 is a game to be treasured 
 for as long as Im alive, thank you Valve you have made me a happy guy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katarn95
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  The game has a lot going for the story. I understand how people were let down by the ending though 
 I dont think that the ending needed to justify, settle or make me happy its the ending of an ovious 
 middle chapter so im sure it will make sense. Though the story and the feel of the game are great. 
 If you have the right hard ware such problems like installation and loading time didnot effect 
 me. The physics are great as well as the gameplay kept changing from driving to using antlions 
 fighting striders with teammates were great. The difficulty defualt is set on easy so thats probably 
 why many people complain its to easy and it is pretty easy on even normal though hard is a bit 
 challenging though i dont look for though games i lokk for enjoyable ones. this game in my opion 
 is just as good as the first one though it is diffrent with a few of the same formulas. It was 
 deffinatly worth the wait. The loading may get frustrating at times though there realy is not much 
 that can be done other wise it might effect the quality of the game in total. This is the greatest 
 game ever hands down and there will not be one to match it for some time and im intrested in the 
 an xbox version to revamp the game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20257018376039478582138518186741-curiosgeorge885
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 23, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the new "revolutionary" game from valve, but it isn't as revolutionary as its predecessor. 
 It's a fun, solid shooter with lots of thrills. But the gameplay gets somewhat frusturating and 
 doesn't stay fresh for the whole single player campaign.
  
  The gameplay is much like Far Cry: You go around shooting people, solve devilish puzzles, and drive 
 vehicles in first person mode. But I'd have to say, Far Cry delivers a somewhat more fresh, satisfying 
 experience, while Half-Life 2 delivers more of a generally more creative, more fun experience. 
 But still, that's not enough to keep the game fresh for the whole single player campaign.
  
  The highlight of Half-Life 2 is it's graphics and sound. It delivers an amazing cinematic, 
 innovative experience with cool, memorable characters and excellent dialogue and voice acting. 
 The only problem with the sound is the weak gun fire sounds. They seem so predictable and aren't 
 very satisfying and feel underpowered.
  
  The game's story is also one of the highlights. The story is mainly the only thing keeping you 
 compelled to finish the single player campaign, and it definitely did for me. It's got a branching 
 plot that's not to complex, yet not to simple. I don't need to give away the main story at the 
 risk of saying spoilers.
  
  The game's core fun is in the multi-player modes. When purchased, Half-Life 2 comes with 3 full 
 extra games that are available for download through Steam. It comes with: Counter Strike source, 
 a remastered version of the poular online game. Codename Gordan, a 2-D sidescroller with a hellish 
 difficulty. And the best one, Half-Life 2 Deathmatch, which is basically self-explanatory.
  
  Anyhow, Half-Life 2 is definitely "revolutionary" in terms of it's cinematic presentation, 
 but the single-player just doesn't have the strong gameplay like the multi-player does. Half-Life 
 2 is worth picking up for the strengths it has, but it isn't for everyone. It's got a lot of value, 
 but if you don't like the gameplay at all in the single player, chances are you're going to not 
 like the multi-player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 23, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  Put it this way, Half Life 2 is probably the best game ever to grace the PC - Ever!
  Yes it is in fact true, HL2 is the game it was always going to be and more, the game of all games, 
 and the game of the year. Sure Metal Gear Solid 3, Halo 2 and San Andreas were all up there, but 
 they just didnt quite nail it like Valve did with this game. 
  
  Graphics are evolutionary, gameplay is spot on and the sound is superb. I also found the much hyped 
 physics and advanced AI to be totally mind blowing. But what really makes this game as good as 
 it is, is the combined forces of a machine running at its peak. Story, gameplay, graphics, sound 
 and realism all become integral of this masterpiece.
  
  Buy it, play it again and treasure it for all time. 
  
  9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandallsRaiders
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  When I first played Half-life, it was the most thrilling action game never produced.... 7 years 
 later HALF LIFE 2 easily surpasses the BEST that computer gaming has to offer today and into the 
 future. Where do you start in discribing this fantastic action-packed game?
  
  How about the graphics?? retro comic style, that reminds me of DC Comics Russ Heath and Joe Kirby...
 
  
  How about the puzzle solving cliff-hanger scenarios??? 
  
  How about the pacing of the action and the cut scenes???
  
  How about being able to pick items 
 up and throw them ???
  
  How about the Air Boat and Race Car ???
  
  THE BRIDGE !!
  
  THE CITADEL !!!
  
  THE GRAVITY GUN !!!!
  
  THE Shocking ENDING !!!
  
  Play it again 
 and again and you'll have more time to appreciate the REAL BEAUTY of the game's graphics... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobshow
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Well half life 2 had some big shoes to fill after its revolutionary predecesser. While Half Life 
 2 isnt as ground breaking as Half Life it still stands solidly as one of the top 10 shooters of 
 all time.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: Well if you liked half lifes style of play half life 2 will certainly please you with 
 the involving single player to the decent multiplayer, not to mention it brings CS: Source. but 
 this isnt exactly the type of run-and-gun gameplay you normally see in FPS, you will also get to 
 drive vehicles. So basically this game is ALL that its cracked up to be.
  So basically the gameplay kicks in the clutch and NEVER stops.
  
  Graphics: Source engine, 
 need I say more? This game has some of the best graphics ive EVER seen in a video game not to mention 
 the uniqely made characters you meet along the way. And every enviroment has some sort of way into 
 getting you inside the world and never letting you leave.
  
  
  Sound: What can I say, ive heard better. Even with the great voice acting this game does not challenge 
 Halo 2 at sound even if its a better overall game than Halo. Like i said the voice acting is great 
 and gun sounds arent really that bad, its just like I had said I've heard better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDOderus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I didnt really know what to expect with this one besides the gorgeous graphics, but the story is 
 just as good as the first one, maybe even better. Its hard to describe my feelings as I play this 
 game because I catch myself just standing there looking around in awe at the world that they have 
 created. Especially the coastline levels, I am just amazed at the beauty of the graphics in this 
 game and cant wait for all the games to look like this. The physics in this game are amazing from 
 the way people fall when they are shot to the water and effects of wood, rocks any object react, 
 but heres one of the only problems I have with this game, I think they over did the physics some 
 things seem to bouncy an example being the vehicles you use, they bounce and flip really easy and 
 it just seems exagerrated. Also if you dont have a really good pc dont bother because its demanding 
 to say the least, It stutters a tad for me and I have the recommended ram and well over for hard 
 drive and graphics card, the only thing I need to upgrade is the processor which is 1.2gig athlon. 
 overall this game is great, I love it and highly recommend it to anyone who is a fan of half life, 
 and counterstrike source is awesome as well, and you can take it from me who hated the other counterstrikes, 
 I am addicted to this one and it has the same graphics and physics as half life2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  forget the hype, This game delivers on it's promises, simply put, it's fun, revolutionary, and 
 ground breaking all in its own way. no it's not perfect, but of the big three to come out in 2004, 
 it's the best i think. 
  
  what is great: graphics are good (specificaly textures) , sound is well just the best i've heard 
 since warcraft three and doom 3, the intigrated cutscenes just blow your mind the first time through 
 the game, the lead cast as i like to call them become the most memorable characters since warcraft 
 3, animations, story (many would complian, but i found it as wonderfully mind bogalling as the 
 first, the best part is that you aren't told alot because the developers assume the gamer is smart 
 enough to piece alot together.) the multiplayer (though it's still missing some essentials it's 
 cs source man) , the physics are well the best in a game to date, all it needs is full destructable 
 enviroements and i'd have a heart attack when playing this game.
  
  what isn't so great: the weapons, and the execution of them is well lame (with the exception of 
 the gravity gun, and laser guided rocket launcher and shot gun, and grenade) 
  
  time to elaborate, this game is entirely linear, the puzzels though ground breaking and only soved 
 one way so this game is really narrow, but the great thing about it is the first time you play 
 it it doesn't feel so linear, the level design is so over the top great that despite the games 
 linear nature you feel you are really just wandering in exactly the right direction by luck rather 
 than being guided, if you don't believe me forget when you begin the game that its so linear and 
 you'll be astounded. really i didn't notice the linear nature till my third time through the first 
 levels, wow. the intigrated cutscenes give you the player the feeling that this is all really happening 
 is so wonderful and frightening, and awinspiring to see dog leap onto a drop ship to deffend you 
 i mean this game makes me cry at parts its just so beautiful, there are a few kind of low pionts 
 in the level/game design but really they are only seconds long, the not dissapionting, but not 
 impressive levels are the vehicles levels i think, because the chase sequences loose their punch 
 a little as you stop to solve puzzles, some of my favorite scenes are durring the buggy sequence, 
 but there are other instances when it feels well just not as jaw dropping. maybe thats a good thing 
 because it gives you time to breath. the characters in this game are for the most part excelently 
 executed, except for two instances when you are fighting along side alex, she isn't really good 
 with a weapon, she just has like ten times as much health as gordon does, and has no armor or anything 
 to explian it, she's always taking lead and all she uses is a deagle, well that was the only problem 
 i had with the otherwise excelent execution of the lead cast, as for the supporting cast, in the 
 biggining of the game you meat alot of npc's that have great vioce acting but they aren't modeled 
 as well and look a little fuzzy. and when you fight along some of the npc's they just seem to die 
 and be replaced, taking away from any feeling of ergency, except for the medic. gameplay, well 
 for the most part it is well simply ground breaking, the gravity gun opens up so many possibilities, 
 the shot gun is great, as is the excecution of the grenades and rocket launcher, but the rest of 
 the weapons feel well useless, the magnum never has enough rounds to be of use, same with the very 
 wierd and incocievable crossbow, the starting pistol looses all funcionality after you foes get 
 real guns. the smg is well a joke the grenade launcher for it never has enough ammo. the assualt 
 rifle if you want to call it that has such a small clip for how fast it fires, and the secondary 
 fire is out of control. the execution of these guns also feels way to arcade is with little to 
 no reciol, and cross hairs that don't convey accuracy or reciol, the onscreen animations doesn't 
 make them look particularly powerful either. my other major gripe is the ease of the game i went 
 through it the first time in what felt like 15 hours. the length isn't the issue, it's just that 
 the combine does almost no damage to a intelegent person using cover. this games only difficulty 
 comes in reajusting how you thought of puzzels to learn how to look at any given situation. such 
 as using the gravity gun to unplug a energy shield. that stuff becomes second nature about 2/3 
 the way through the game as it becomes incorperated in the action. the graphics are good, but they 
 aren't well used to the best of their abilities. supposedly half life 2 has great textruing capabilities, 
 then why not use that to round out the crisp low poly enviroments. character models idealy look 
 the best of any game to date, and are animated perfectly. what really looks good in this game is 
 grenade explosions because they launch debre and crates and what ever is laying around in all directions, 
 this combined with the excelent particle effects is beautiful. 
  
  ok 
  
  gameplay is well revolutionary, in terms of the gravity gun, and held back in terms of some of 
 the weapons and their execution. AI is great, but the games gun battle difficulty feels two easy 
 on normal and hard difficulties. gameplay is over all great though 9
  
  graphics are well what helps bring the characters and intigrated cutscenes to life, and the charater 
 models are top notch, but the low poly enviroment don't take advantage of the textureing capabilities 
 of the graphics engine to smooth out the rough edges. 9
  
  sound hand down amazing, i can't say anything more than get a great speaker setup before playing 
 this 10
  
  value is well great this is a must own game if you play pc games or if you ever liked games at 
 any piont in your simple life 10
  
  reviewers tilt, well i must say that this game is just a great example, as halo is of how take 
 a simple concept execute everything to the best of your abilities and it will be come one of if 
 not the most grand concept in gaming. i love this game and it is just what i've been wiating for 
 despit my few gripes. oh yeah and cs source is well great, except valve got lazy and didn't include 
 any vote kick option or anti cheat stuff, this game is being hacked constantly and needs these 
 updates, and with half-life 2 deathmatch out things are bound to get fun, only problem is that 
 half-life 2 deathmatch is a lag fest.
  
  score 9.6
  
  and you know what gamespot didn't give this game what it deserved, and they deffinately over rated 
 halo2, i love both games but common look at what they did hear that halo 2 didn't halo2 uses the 
 same technology and has a simple, fun but in no way as spectacular singleplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindwalker1967
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2005 12:22 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the best game to ever grace your hard drive.
  The details are amazing, I can't wait to see what Valve has
  up it's sleeve for the next wave.
 
  
  The graphics, sound, controls, and story are very well put 
  together. 
  
  Single player is awsome, but when it comes to multiplayer
  Half Life 2 will simply rock your 
 collective world. You will not 
  be able to stop.
  
  Just think of the possibilities the Havoc engine will have
  on future titles in this series, 
 or for that fact any other game
  in any other possible genre.
  
  A must own game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venda4k
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 felt like a breath of fresh air while i was installing it, fianlly I was getting the 
 chance of playing the most graphically beautiful game ever an dthe most hyped game ever, I mainly 
 wanted HL2 for CS Source but HL2 seems to draw me into its unreal world, OMG the graphics, one 
 word, well there is no word to describe the beauty of these, I dont think any other game will match 
 this in terms of revoulutionizing the genre. Just buy buy buy buy buy this game game game game 
 game game right now dammit!!!, You'll be missing out on CS Source aswell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaper200
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  Over the years we have seen some awsome games and some completly horrible games. This is one of 
 those awsome games that you can't put down. 
  
  The Cut - L O V E spells love. Yes it is amazing, I know. The game starts out slow on a single 
 level in which you have no weapon. You run for a little while and bam you get to meet your old 
 but good friend Gary. He's got your back as it seems just when you need him. Giving you a IGT every 
 time you need one. 
  
  The Graphics - OMG when i started it up i thought it would never load. It was all black and laggy 
 for the first few min. Don't let this through you off the game runs very smooth after five or so 
 minutes. The games graphics blew my socks off when i saw the ammount of close detail textureing 
 that they put into this. The eye candy suits the eye for me. I played and played and play and played 
 and played and didn't get bored of these dam textures. They rock. 
  
  The game play - The game play changes through out the whole game whether your building a bridge 
 to get acrost the sand or shooting little spider like things. Then you come to a house in the middle 
 of know where. Kinda freaky. They made the game so that your not just killing people all the way 
 but rather a few puzzles and gadgets that you need to figure out. Then you come to the car. They 
 didn't make it like 2 seconds long. NO your in that sweet a** car for like an hour. That is sweet. 
 
  
  The final cut - I liked the game but if i can beat it on easy in 13 hours thats a little short 
 wouldn't you say. When you finish the game head over to steam and load up HL2 DM and play your 
 little heat out. Its awsome. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tvveaker
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2005 3:47 am PT
Review:  Well i just got my new Video card (A Radeon X700 256 PCI-E card) and the first game I went for 
 was Half-Life 2, this game took Half-Life to a whole new level. From controlling the Antlions, 
 which was one of my favorite things to do, to the laser guided missle launcher. I give this game 
 a straight out 10. I've been beating it in all difficulties. Can't stop playing it. I recommend 
 this to anyone who enjoys graphics, gameplay, and that likes to pick things up with a gravity gun 
 and throw them at people! This is a must have on the shelf. The Multiplayer is ok, it could have 
 been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_999
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  ... unless you have a mid range computer or better. Otherwise you will be mad at yourself or your 
 mom or dad or whoever bought it for you because you will get home and download it and be all hyped 
 up to play it only to find out that your pc is garbage and you can't get your fifty bucks back. 
 Luckily I didn't have that problem. This is the baddest game I have ever played. I wish I had a 
 better graphics card so I could tweak the settings but the gameplay experience was a blast none 
 the less. I give HL2 a 10 out of 10. Valve hit every mark with HL2. If I had one complaint it would 
 be the ending. Lame endings must be the new fad because everybody is doing it. I never got the 
 full version of HL1 so The GMan was a complete mystery to me (I need answers!) . Anyway, this game 
 also solves a major problem with most shooters I've played... the length. Don't expect to beat HL2 
 in one day unless your a complete loser with no life. Some people consider that "hardcore." Whatever. 
 If you beat this in one day you deserve some kind of prize. Moving on. Yeah so the ending was lame 
 but who cares, Valve still made the best game ever and it was worth every penny so I recommend 
 this game to everyone that has decent pc and likes to kill things. Buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kraM9864
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  I was one of those people who would do anything to get Half-Life 2. I was there for every painful 
 delay, and when I finally got my hands on it, I couldn't believe I was actually playing it. The 
 beggining of the game is really good, but it just seems to get worst. The game has some of the 
 best graphics I have seen in awhile. Also, you don't need a monster computer to enjoy the graphics 
 (even though it certainly looks better with a top-of-the line computer) . The game was surprisingly 
 short, it only took me 14 hours to beat on normal the first time through. Also, for me there just 
 wasn't the fell in HL2 that there was in the first one. The enemies A. I. isn't all to great. They 
 rush at you blindly, or just sit out in the open waiting to get shot. The game is very good though. 
 There are some genuine moments, like when you first get the rocket-launcher. Also, the later levels 
 in the game in City 17 are also really fun. Anybody who liked the first one, or anybody who likes 
 FPS's in general should buy this game, just don't expect it to be as good as the first Half-Life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaver_Ben
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 15, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  Well, unless you've been hiding under a massive rock! Half-Life is one of the best games realeased... PERIOD. 
 Up there with GTA, Mario, Zelda, etc. The single player alone is enough to keep your mind amused 
 for hours on end. I spent just about more time reloading save files trying to figure different 
 ways to solve a puzzle or kill a group of enemies then actually playing online. (I know that's 
 a lie but close enough) . The game has a sense of free-roaming with all the vast possibilites. With 
 insperation from some newer games (Halo) I hate saying this, but it's true. Only in a sense.... vechicle 
 missioons. These missions or what I think or some of funnest parts of the game. Now, I could go 
 on and on about how good the game is. Then, I would forget some of my complaints. Like, the fact 
 you never seen your arms when driving. Loading times (for some PCs like mine) can take almost 2 
 minutes sometimes. And the thing I actually hate the most is that you can't kill NPCs. I want ammo, 
 U DIE! I think your stupid, U DIE! Won't follow me, U DIE! Theses flaws or so little that they 
 never acutally take away from the game. It's just that eveyone knows that this game is great! It's 
 harder to find some flaws... I acutally had to find something to complain about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triangle98
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  While one of the best games I've played in a while, I do have some issues with Half-Life 2. Incredible 
 graphics, a top-notch physics engine and riveting game-play leave little to complain about, but 
 all these great things about the game serve more to illustrate what's missing in this game than 
 to show off what's been included. I actually bought a new computer just for this game, and waited 
 for its release to see what type of system I should get so that I could get the most out of it. 
 I absolutely love the graphics and game play. I refuse to play the Ravenholm level late at night 
 and the train bridge in Highway 17 leave me breathless and emphasize my fear of heights. Innovative 
 weapons (the grav-gun and bug-bait are great ideas) really push my creativity. The in-game tutorial 
 of how to play the game and use different weapons adds to the depth of the game and the inclusion 
 of vehicles (Waterworks and Highway 17 are my favorite levels  have longer levels like these in 
 the next Half-Life game) almost makes this the perfect game. I do have some issues, though. I played 
 the game on a 3.6 ghz P4 processor with an ATI Radeon x300T video card, Creative Labs sound card 
 and over a gig of RAM, and it still took upwards of five minutes for parts of the game to load. 
 A minor issue, but with a limited preload, the time does add up. Secondly, while the included weapons 
 are nearly complete, I long for the old trip mines and detonators of the original Half-Life. In 
 the modified words of Will Farrell, needs more weapons. Lastly, I was disappointed in the ending. 
 I wont give it away for those few who havent played the game yet, but the ending couldve been 
 more dramatic and action-packed. Although it did get me excited for Half-Life 3; I cant wait for 
 Valve to release it, and hopefully theyll do so. Soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hauntedjunction
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I didnt really like the first Half-Life but this is amazing. I was makeing 
 my computer and i bought a ATI 9600 XT witch came with a free Half-Life 2 i said to myself, "what 
 ever i'll gust use it for the CS Scourse.". Then i was board one day and i said what the hell i'll 
 try it out. When i first started there was a long opening sequence and i said, "oh man not again" 
 thinking about the old game but i kept playing. After that it was so much fun. There are times 
 when it is very insence. My favorite part is when you are in the abondond town and there are traps 
 all over the place the physiscs are very good. If you dont think choping Alians in half is cool 
 your in the rong hobbie. Over all this game is a visual masterpeice, the wepons are great, phisics 
 are amazing, and the gameplay is just perfict. I highly recomend this game to all people with a 
 pc that can run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAJY_FILTH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This game has great value! As you get CSS with it ;) But i think its great for that reason! 
  
  All the mods you get with the game and css will own :D
  
  
  Ok this game is great takes 
 advantage of the engine but it doesn't do for fps games that Half-life did :P In other words it's 
 not the game your've been waiting for, for 6 years :)
  
  The ending was abit disappointing as it ended exactly like HL but still a great fun game. The engine 
 is looking a little old now ;) but still looks amazing! Bring it on Unreal 3 :D
  
  
  SO in conclusion, this game is a great game but it's not the fps i wanted from HL and a 6 year 
 wait for hl2 : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  Few games can survive so long as Half-Life has. The Counter-Strike mod has made it one of the most 
 popular multi-player games ever. Todays technology has caught up with it, but the gameplay from 
 the original is still top notch.
  I was never a huge fan of Half-Life. Some raised it to the skies for its story, claiming it was 
 the greatest ever, but while I thought that claim was ridiculous, I could not disagree with that 
 it was a great game.
  Now 6 years later Valve gives us Half-Life 2. The story picks up where Half-Life ended, with Gordon 
 accepting his offer of working with the mysterious agency.
  Valve has put in extra effort this time on the story and especially on the characters. There are 
 several new ones introduced and some familiar. But the biggest problem from the first game and 
 common in the entire genre is that the main character, Gordon Freeman, remains very anonymous. 
 This makes it kind uninteresting to follow the story as I couldnt care less what happens to Gordon, 
 since I dont know him.
  The game is a technical masterpiece. The graphics are one of the absolute best Ive ever seen, 
 great physical effects (especially the gravity gun) and extremely detailed models. Its just outstanding.
 
  But there is something that just isnt right. The game isnt as fun as it other games in the genre, 
 like Far Cry and Jedi Knight. Its very linear, although it tries to not appear so by presenting 
 large outdoor environments, it backfires and I feel much steered, more than usual.
  Much debate has been about their copy-protection, but I think Steam is a natural development, although 
 I still prefer the feeling of coming home opening the cover of your new-bought game.
  Will people still be playing HL2 in 6 years? I believe that the game will still installed on many 
 computers, but mostly like HL is today, a base for a mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dclack
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  After the long wait is finally over, all I can say is WOW! The graphics are absolutely gorgeous 
 and even runs pretty well on a lower end machine. The game play is smooth and fast and is everything 
 that I would expect from a successor to Half Life. On the down side, after so many years of development, 
 you would think that they could have done something about the awful load times and the audio could 
 have been streamed in better, preventing the stutter during load (which can get quite annoying) . 
 Much of the game also feels like a rail shooter. If it was not for these few issue, it would 
 have gotten a 10 from me. Great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2005 3:40 am PT
Review:  This is hands down the best game I have played. While it lacks a few cool game play features like 
 a bullet time equivalent, that would have given it the perfect 10 from me, it is outstanding in 
 every other catagory. The steam components that are required to load and run before you can play 
 are actually fairly annoying and don't run well, once you get through that and actually get the 
 game launched, it's amazing and worth every penny.
  
  It is far and away a better game than Doom3. I wish I had waited an just purchased this, but I 
 got anxious for the "cool" graphics and got both. Oh well.
  
  If you were a fan of the first one, you'll love this followon. Well Done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirJordanVlad
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Much has been said about Half-Life 2. Now that it's here, many have been impressed. It's definetly 
 a great shooter, and a noteworthy follow-up to Half-Life. It's solid and well put-up. But few probably 
 now that Half-Life 2 the game is actually a tool for promoting two of the gaming industries' most 
 promising tools: the engine Source and Steam.
  Although Steam sounds like a very, very bad idea for publishers, it could mean more money for developers 
 and better games for us. However, the game itself should not be ignored completely.
  To start with, Half-Life 2 ships with CS: Source. That's a plus, as CS is the #1 online game to date 
 and Source promises alot. Half-Life 2's gameplay is entertaining, but the amazing thing is that 
 Half-Life 2 never insists enough to make the game too difficult. There are logical puzzles in the 
 game, but not enough to stress you, and that's a good thing. Another plus to Half-Life 2 is that 
 it keeps you sweating and with your fingers on the keyboard. Maybe there's a black headcrab behind 
 that door, maybe not? It's the element of surprise that makes Half-Life 2's gameplay so good. Here, 
 the Gravity Gun has a great contribution, probably being the most interesting weapon in Gordon's 
 arsenal.
  CS: Source shows great hopes, and it inherits CS's excellent gameplay.
  Half-Life 2 looks great. The water, the weapons, the enemies, all look real. It's one of the best 
 looking games today, but at a cost. There's a lot of eyecandy, but a very powerful PC is needed, 
 preferably with 512 MB RAM and a 2500+ processor. That could be the only flaw here, but we'll hope 
 that in time, better PCs will cope with great looking games easily.
  Sound is a strong point of the game. You can hear the horrible groans of the bloody zombies, or the 
 frightening sound of a group of ant lions ready to attack you. The voice acting is well done, and 
 the weapon sounds are realistic.
  Half-Life 2 may be considered relatively short, but it can offer enough action to keep you busy 
 for 4 or 5 days on normal difficulty. The game's AI didn't make any significant improvements compared 
 to Half-Life #1, except the fearsome ant lions, which prove a real challenge even for the veteran 
 gamers.
  Once you finish the single player campaign ,there wouldn't be any obvious reason to backtrack, 
 except if you want some more fun with the Gravity Gun. The replay value of the game stands in CS: Source, 
 because, unfortunately, Half-Life 2 comes with only a multiplayer map and the Deathmatch mod must 
 be downloaded manually.
  All in all, Half-Life 2 is an impressive game, one of the best FPS for PC, and a title standing 
 as a legacy for other games to come, just like Half-Life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipaman711
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  I am running with this:
  
  9800pro 128mb 256bit
  Amd 64 3000+ 2.0ghz
  1 gig of Kingston ram
  120 gb Hard Drive
  Gigabyte motherboard with 5 pci and 1 agp slot
 
  Onboard Audigy Sound Blaster 2
  5.1 Logitech surround sound 
  
  I was really looking forward to this. I was almost 100% sure this would be my favorite game I will 
 ever play. Well that was when the source code got leaked and I was excited to the max about it. 
 IMO It looked better with the original graphics they were going to use. And just remember, this 
 is an unbiased review.
  
  Wake up and smell the ashes Mr. Freeman. That is how the highly anticipated Half Life 2 made by 
 Valve starts off. Half Life 2 is the sequel to the most original and in my opinion the best FPS 
 ever made. Half Life 2 starts off with Gordon Freeman waking up from Black Mesa after G Man gave 
 Gordon a medicine that makes Gordon go into somewhat acoma and only G Man can wake him up. But 
 back onto Half Life 2. In the begining you wake up on a train that is stopping at City 17. City 
 17 was created by Dr. Brean. When you start off you get sent to a room and what do ya know, Barny 
 from Black Mesa is there. After you get there, Barny tells you to go to the lab. When you are going 
 there you are getting shot at. Then you get taken out by them. Then Alyx comes. She takes you to 
 the lab.
  
  Gameplay - If you haven't noticed, I am hard to please. I find fault with everything. I loved this 
 game. But this is why it is getting the score it's getting. It got repetitive for me. I got somewhat 
 bored after playing the end of Nova Prospect. So of the enemies got boring also. I thought that 
 Valve had all that time to make the game, they should have had more monsters and stuff. But let 
 alone. It was very very good in the gameplay aspect
  
  Graphics - What can I say? One of the best looking games ever made. Even though I do think that 
 the original engine looked better I can live with this new one ;) . Also, remember I am running 
 on a AT Radeon 9800 pro 128mb 256 bit and it runs like a dream at times...... then on other I get 
 horrible graphical stuttering which is extremely annoying.
  
  Sound - Oh wow. All the guns sound so amazing. I really think that this have the best revolver, 
 pistol, and shotgun sounds. I really thought that that the sound is what pulled me in, and kept 
 me playing. I am stunned about the sound difference from my old 2.1 to my new 5.1 (It's really 
 6.1 I just didnt think any games use 6) .
  
  Value - Well, I spent $60 on steam and I got Counter Strike source on October 7th, the first day 
 you could buy HL2. I got DoD: S (which hasn't been released yet) , CS: S on the spot (I will have 
 a review for CS: S sometime in the near future) , and HL: S. Half Life Source was in my opinion was 
 false advertising. It is NOT using all the source things. It added a little it of ragdoll and enhanced 
 water. But I lover DoD and CS so I rate that a 10.
  
  Reviewers Tilt - Yes I know some of you major Half Life 2 fans think I am a Doom 3 or Far Cry fanboy 
 but I enjoy them all. I just think that Half Life 2 was not all it could have been. I think that 
 the ending was not that great (I hate cliffhangers becuase I don't know when a new one will be 
 coming)
  
  That is my unbiased review. If you disagree with me about something in this review send me a PM 
 so we can talk about it.
  
  -Snipaman711 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defireman
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 8, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a good game. Yes, a good game. Although it has certainly improved in some aspects 
 over its predecessor, there are a lot of things left to be desired. It did not help that the game 
 is sold with a generous helping of hype and empty promises.
  
  What Half-Life 2 has truly improved is its graphics, and I must admit that the developers at Valve 
 has made good use of the engine to put forward an oppressed environment. Character emotions are 
 also very well used in Half-Life 2, and it did add a lot of immersion in the beginning of the game, 
 where the Player have that (scarce) time to freely interact with the other npcs in the game. However, 
 there's where it ends.
  
  What happens after is then standard FPS fare. Run and gun. Rinse and repeat. It did not help that 
 the enemies encountered are very much the same. Two types of combine, one type of antlion, three 
 types of zombies (+ headcrabs) ... it did not help that the Combine AI was pretty retarded, and 
 inevitably charges straight at you, offering an easy kill. For those of you who have played the 
 original HL, it might come as a total letdown. The Combine AI simply isn't up to the standard of 
 games such as Far Cry. Where was the 'revolutionary' AI promised at E3 2003? (It did not help that 
 the Beta Leak exposed the supposed 'AI' to be total scripted sequences) .
  
  The driving levels are also absurdly long. For one thing, the airboat level are 9 maps long. There 
 is really no reason for the airboat and the buggy level to be that long, as the things that you 
 will be fighting and places that you will be going are pretty much the same. Sure, there are several 
 places that requires you to dismount and solve a puzzle to proceed, but I couldn't help but wonder 
 "When is this going to end?". For those of you who thought the game is an "Instant classic" and 
 is willing to play through the vehicle levels through again and again, I salute you.
  
  It did not help that Half-Life 2 did not deliver the story very well. I have never understood why 
 raving HL2 fans kept clammering that the HL2 story was the best thing ever since sliced bread. 
 For one thing, HL2 did not offer much additional information on the HL Saga. Things have definitely 
 changed in the time between HL and HL2, but HL2 did not really mention much that have happened 
 between them, and why Gordon had to do what other people told them to do. It did not help that 
 the game is 100% linear, and at time I felt really rushed by the game to enjoy the environment 
 fully. The overall effect was that I felt like a running dog for the game's main characters, and 
 not like a hero, as I was told over and over again by those resistance fighters, who told me to 
 reload - only to die right after trying to take a strider on with his wimpy SMG. The player does 
 not feel a sense of purpose in the game, and that is a big minus in my book.
  
  Although Valve has hyped that the game would have no cutscenes, there are definitely parts of the 
 game that would have been much better when rendered as cutscenes, so they could be SKIPPED. Some 
 parts of the game was so boring after the first run through, putting them into cutscenes would 
 have been a better option. The lengthy conversations, in which the game's npcs talked amongst themselves 
 would have been better in cutscenes, but because they are all scripted, the played have to sit 
 through them in boredom, albeit involuntarily. This is poor execution at best.
  
  The weapons are pretty much standard fare in HL2, except the gravity gun, which was fun for a while. 
 However, the weapon arsenal in Half-Life 2 is substantially reduced from the original Half-Life, 
 and some weapons appears to have been slapped together at the last moment, making their roles weird. 
 (notably the OSIPR: as a rifle it is too inaccurate, and as a support weapon, it has too little 
 ammo. Not that the fact that it was a semi-auto weapon that fired incendiary rounds converted to 
 fire full-auto helped any) . Also, it is puzzling that Valve did not include long range combat weapons, 
 although it has harped that there will be wide, open space in the game. A proper sniper rifle would 
 have been a nice addition to the game. Also, the maximum ammo capacity for all of the weapons have 
 been decreased substantially for some reason. In my opinion, this seems to be done to make the 
 game appear harder, and to mask the fact that the AI was not very well done.
  
  Unfortuately, Half-Life 2's linear gameplay means that if you like exploring at the first run through, 
 your patience with it will come to an end very soon. After the first time, the gameplay becomes 
 extremely predictable, as the positions and the reactions of the enemies are basically the same. 
 It does not help that to replay the game from the beginning, you will have to sit through the incredibly 
 boring conversations between the npcs, which you cannot skip. Unlike games like Far Cry, once your 
 are done with HL2, you cannot expect much more to come from it. This greatly impacts its value.
 
  
  All in all, if you haven't played Half-Life 2 yet, feel free to give it a shot, although you might 
 find youself disappointed in its flaws and lack of freedom to act in the game as you will be swept 
 away by its stunning graphics and talented voice acting. Trust your conclusions, don't believe 
 the hype and the raving reviews that people gave this game (10 out of 10! , or even better, 11/10!!!!) . 
 Half-Life 2 was an overhyped game that almost fell flat on its face, but stayed afloat only because 
 of the raving fans from the original HL community. Good, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhodes1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2005 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Yeh, i got Half life2 a while ago and loved it. Its the total package. Nothing can even come close 
 to it. Taht and with Counter-Striker Source is the bestestest game evars.
  
  Alot of people whine at Half life 2 for bein short, but i thought it was just right, about 15 hours 
 of play time. The ending was to easy though, could of been longer and maybe an actualy boss would 
 of been nice, but otherwise it was perfect and fun..
  
  Looo ooooo ooooo ooooo oooo ooooo oooo oooo oooo oooo ooo ooo oooooo ooooooooo oooo oooooo ooo 
 ooo oooo ooo ooo oo o ooo ooo ooooooooo ooooo ooooove it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: analog01
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I've played many FPS games and this is yet another. It's beautifully programmed and all that... but 
 it has a complete tunnel-like feeling as you move through the game. It tells you it's a game and 
 sucks all the imagination out of it. I want to feel immersed and it feels dry and robotic. Conceptually 
 great but lacks life! Truely a Half Alive feeling! I'm very interested in a more RPG like feeling 
 so maybe I would naturally feel uninspired by this game. But it is a good game. Just very linear. 
 That the only way to describe it. The event triggers are almost like eyeball rollers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was fantastic, a great follow up to Half Life, but there are a few things that were a 
 little off. 
  
  One - the graphics were great for the most part, for instance things like the amazing ripple effects, 
 but in spots it seemed like they were underdone. Just in some small details. I can't remember a 
 specific example at the moment but I do remember thinking once or twice that some little thing 
 looked rather undetailed. The city scapes though were just beautiful.
  
  Two - the story is rather weak for a game that purports to be highly story driven. I mean there 
 isn't really much of a plot, or at least it is never really expressed in detail. The game seems 
 to be driven more by atmosphere this time around than any explicit story telling. Its not that 
 there is no plot at all, its just that it is not very rich. That said, the atmosphere developement 
 is really, really, good. Its creepy as hell, and that seems to (mostly) make up for it.
  
  Three - how the vortigut (sp?) ended up being our allies is never adequately explained. But it 
 is kind of a cool little twist.
  
  Other than that this game is awesome. Really I loved it. I won't go into exhausting detail since 
 most of its already been said, but I will say that I liked the sound a lot (I work in audio, its 
 the first thing I notice) . It could be said that it was a little sparse but I think that fact actually 
 aids the creation of the dystopian atmosphere. Its not like your going to be hearing any driving 
 techno in City 17 right? The little bits of score that are present are really good. Not really 
 songs, but little bits of acoustic atmosphere that add to scene rather than making me think I'm 
 in the middle of some arena shootout. 
  
  When I get home from work tonight I think I'll sit down for round two!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamersword
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2005 2:12 am PT
Review:  Overall the game pushed the envelop of a standard first person shooter and is a worthy sequel to 
 Half-Life 1. Its addition on graphics shows where first person shooters are headed in the future, 
 as being able to react with the enviroment is key because otherwise you will have no chance in 
 the game. Half Life 2 is the best and you will enjoy this game no question. You may even go through 
 it a few times, its just that fun with the addition of graphics.
  
  Half Life 2 is a game that you should not miss out on, if your computer can handle it and your 
 over the requirements then dont miss out on this instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saukkoman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2005 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is amazingly great game, a masterpiece among FPS-games. The graphics make every level, 
 into something new, really. The sounds are good, and the gameplay is great too... I'm sounding 
 like some book-writer... When i installed Half-Life 2, i wondered would it run on my comp, it did, 
 miraculously. The physics engine in the game is just awesome, and when you get to play with the 
 gravity gun, wow it's a great gun. And of course, all the other guns re simply astounding. The 
 game deserves 9.6 for all the wondrous and cool graphics, sound, gameplay. The bad sides, i think 
 there should have been more music, even though the music is good, and then there are sometimes 
 small graphical glitches, very small, but they don't mess the graphical beauty of the game. My 
 first review is finished, whew it was long, and now to play some half-life 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrabbit_slim
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 6, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, superior sound and excellent gameplay... but can you actually own a game with security 
 features that requires an internet connection? I think not. The anal copyright protection scheme 
 in this game penalizes those who actually purchase the game over those who pirate it. How long 
 does valve think it will be before a crack comes out to favour those who choose to obtain this 
 game illegally. I was unable to play for 2 weeks when I moved and lost my internet connection. 
 Very frustrating for an honest gamer. I gave this game 10 in all categories except reviewers tilt 
 because of the 'freaking' security features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zymase
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2005 12:31 am PT
Review:  The return of Gordon Freeman has not gone as smoothly as some would like. Between the infamous 
 source-code theft and subsequent tightening of registration through Valve's proprietary Steam service, 
 Half-Life 2 went through more prior to its release than most games go through from development 
 to shelves to patches and mods. But for all their trouble, and the extra time gamers spent waiting 
 for it, Half-Life 2 more than lives up to its expectations.
  
  From the word 'go,' Half-Life 2 immerses you in the world of Gordon Freeman, and never lets up. 
 The amount of effort spent in keeping the player in this perspective through environmental change 
 and NPC interaction must have been enormous, and is readily apparent. 
  
  The graphics in this game are nothing short of amazing. Unlike Doom 3, this game isn't afraid of 
 showing off its incredible Source graphics engine, which renders some of the best water and textural 
 effects seen to date in a game. The use of Havok physics is applied liberally throughout the gameplay, 
 and is an integral part of the experience in the form of the gravity gun - quite possible the coolest 
 weapon ever conceived.
  
  The weapons sound incredible, from the short pop and hollow boom of the two pistols in the game. 
 Ambient sounds are equally impressive - the flatline from (what Monty Python would refer to as 
 an) ex-Combine trooper is as satisfying as it gets.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a must-play for anyone with the hardware capability to run it. There are few gameplay 
 experiences that can match it for adrenaline-pumping visceral thrill or complete immersion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -r4mZ-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Finally, here it is. The game so many have been eagerly awaiting has finally arrived after one 
 hell of a rough ride through development. After a year of delays, was it worth the wait? 
  
  Before I get started on the actual game, I'd just like to say that I've tried to ignore all 
 the problems I've had with Steam since it isn't really part of the actual game, however I think 
 it's worth mentioning that it took me almost 7 hours to install the first time thanks to my slow 
 internet connection (I have ADSL but service is horrible around here.) This was followed by many 
 problems with Steam crashing and sometimes refusing to run altogether. Now, considering that this 
 was justified as an anti-piracy measure, I find it hard to accept that paying customers are put 
 through such grief just to play a game. If this wasn't Half Life 2, I wouldn't even have considered 
 being as patient as I was with it. 
  
  Anyways, on to the game itself. My first impression of the game was extremely good thanks to the 
 superb graphics, both technically and style-wise. No dark Doom-esque areas here, with all the environments 
 designed to make it feel as though it's a living, breathing world. The attention to detail is also 
 incredible with NPCs acting more realistically than in any other game I've played and many other 
 nice little touches which put together make all the difference in the world. You're able to pick 
 up and interact with practically everything you see thanks to the physics engine, which this game 
 has been so acclaimed for. All these factors come together perfectly to give this game a feel that 
 is unrivalled so far. The only complaint I have with the graphics engine is that certain effects 
 are jarring, such as sudden light changes when fires die out, but nothing too major.
  
  Another factor that I think is worth mentioning is that this game manages to look superb even on 
 lower-spec machines thanks to the superb design that all the environments have. This is quite a 
 feat to achieve, especially when "more polygons = better" seems to be the motto of most games when 
 it comes to graphics. I can remember no other game in which I wandered around the game world just 
 looking at everything right through the whole story. I did have regular stuttering problems though, 
 which were resolved by simply restarting the game. This was quite annoying, but since it was solved 
 so easily it didn't really bother me too much.
  
  The sounds and the way they're co-ordinated in the game are something I also really liked. Your 
 crowbar makes just the sound you'd expect it to when you hit it on certain materials, and just 
 the right kind of music kicks in at just the right time to further increase the atmospheric and 
 immersive feel that this game has.
  
  Story-wise, Half Life 2 might seem a bit weak to some, but this is because there is no narration 
 at all in the game. It's like you really are Gordon Freeman who's woken up and been thrown into 
 City 17, where you start your adventure. For most of the story you need to observe your surroundings 
 and what happens around you, such as reading newspaper cuttings in Dr. Kleiner's lab and observing 
 certain graffiti spread around the game world. That really is the whole point of the game, to make 
 you feel like you are Mr. Freeman, who knows just about as much as you do. 
  
  The gameplay in this game strangely feels both familiar and new at the same time. It feels new 
 thanks to innovations like the gravity gun and all the possibilities it opens up in the game, along 
 with very original puzzles and basically quite a different way of approaching things to other games 
 in the FPS genre. However, once you strip away certain things, this really is a normal FPS at heart. 
 You jump, shoot, strafe and snipe just like in any other self-respecting FPS, which really does 
 make it feel very familiar and not revolutionary like many had been expecting. As far as weapons 
 go, apart from the gravity gun, most of them have been taken directly from the original Half Life, 
 which really disappointed me since I was expecting a much more varied selection. This is probably 
 the part of the game which needed more work, since they did a sterling job with the rest of the 
 game, but somehow they forgot that this was somehow expected to be revolutionary in terms of gameplay, 
 but sadly it isn't.
  
  Maybe this game wasn't as revolutionary as was expected, but I don't really care. I rarely feel 
 compelled to re-play any FPS, but I practically jumped right into it as soon as I finished Half 
 Life 2, simply because it's so damn fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Never played the original; so I have to admit I didn't get what all the Half Life blather was about, 
 from it's legions of fans. Then........ there was all the HL2 hype. Yea, yea........ been there, 
 heard that! Holy bleep! It's as good as they said! LOL! I'm very pleasantly surprised the astounding 
 grpahics, sound, gameplay, and story (as good as they get in a FPS) actually (for once) live up 
 to the advance billing! Yes, it's that good. Iif you're a FPS fan and you only buy one game this 
 year (are you crazy?! You passed on Far Cry AND Doom 3?!) you need to buy HL2. The motion capture, 
 character modeling, and OMG....... the lip syncing; have to be seen to be believed. The voice acting 
 is way better than average too. 
  
  My gaming laptop is fairly fast (3.4GB Prescott, 256MB Radeon based) ; so HL2 runs nice and smooth 
 at 1024 x 768 with 2X AA enabled, and most of the graphics dialed up (I keep my rig in a high state 
 of tune also) . Can't address how it'll run on other gear (so... it's a great excuse to upgrade!) . 
 I could easily carry on more about this game, but you really need to play and see it yourself! 
 
  
  My only beef? That's easy ----the neo facist ploy of Valve; making you be online through Steam to 
 access the single player content (to ensure those nasty pirates 'n hackers 'n such are kept at 
 bay for a few for days) . This part bleeps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMixxer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 3, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game has some outstanding gameplay and graphics. It is definitely worth the money. I had my 
 own doubts about the game, but those were quickly thrown out as soon as I began playing it. The 
 game ran very smoothly, even on my *crap* computer. I must say that this has to be one of the best 
 FPS games I have played in a while. It perfectly balances gameplay and graphics, although the sound 
 could have used a bit of work. The unclusion of Counter-Strike: Source was an even better added 
 bonus. I cannot tell you how much fun I have had playing this game. If you have ANY doubts at all, 
 just play the game. But, the demo is just a small taste of what the entire game is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerbudgp1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is the best game ever on PC, and it might take over 5 hours to download but it's worth 
 it. Once you download everything the whole game will be in your PC so you don't have to put the 
 disc in to play it.
  
  The first thing you will notice if you played the first one, it takes right after you get on the 
 train. So you are Gorden Freeman. He is a scientist who never talks (like the first one) . The graphics 
 are better looking then the first one, it looks like a first person version of Max Payne in some 
 way. You can pick up almost anything in the game. The water looks amazing in Half-Life 2.
  
  You can drive original vehicals that you may never seen or heard of before. When you get the Gravity 
 Gun you will start to have real fun, with it you can pick up stuff in the game and throw it at the 
 monsters or soldiers after you. You can even pick up a saw blade and slice enemies in half (sometimes 
 3 at a time) .
  
  You will not believe the puzzles in the game. You would have never figured out you had to get a 
 wepon and hit the lock of the door to open it, or (*May be a spoiler*) gather trash cans to even 
 out a ramp.
  
  You will meet characters that will help you in Half-Life 2 but some of them you will only see once. The 
 monsters are very smart so is the AI for the soldiers you face.
  
  It took over 4 years for Half-Life 2 to come out and the wait was worth it. Half-Life 2 also has 
 different covers with all the main characters (depending which one you buy) , so you might want to 
 collect all the covers of Half-Life 2. You will love this first person shooter and you will think 
 why it is so fun.
  
  Half-Life to comes with Half-Life Death Match and Counter Strike. These are both ver great games 
 so you get way more than you pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tory66
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2005 7:50 am PT
Review:  At first i thought doom 3 was gonna be the best pc game of 2004. I also thought that Zelda was 
 gonna remain my favorite game of all time. I never played the first half-life so i went into this 
 game not really knowing what to expect. This is the most action pack game experience ever. When 
 it starts up it never stops. Full bawls to the wall action throught out. The vehicle missions are 
 amazing, in fact driving the hovercraft shooting down the enemy flying machines is one of the best 
 moments in gaming, ever. The game does new thing well and all the old things that you have seen 
 done before are done much much better in this game. This is quite possible the best game ever made. 
 It's a must have title for those who have a solid system. To say that Half-Life 2 is anything less 
 than excellent would be a bold face lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  I had relatively high expectations of Half Life 2, and was I admit surprised to see that it exceeded 
 them. In fact, it might be simpler to list the only faults I could find with HL2: that it was - 
 characteristically like most FPS's - rather short in terms of gameplay, and that it seemed to suffer 
 long load times.
  
  HL2's singleplayer experience is the most immersive and polished I have ever experienced; like 
 the first game, a relatively simple story is turned into a gripping presentation that keeps you 
 curious as to what is going on. The gameplay content is solid and engaging, and several sequences 
 - such as trying to make your way along the beach without rousing the insectoid antlions - deviate 
 from the standard derivative FPS game design. The two vehicle sequences are seamlessly included 
 and add to the experience.
  
  HL2's physics engine is singularly impressive. While one could accuse Valve of going out of their 
 way to demonstrate it in action - using it in puzzles and cutscenes - it does add to the game. 
 For instance, puzzles in HL2 are no longer derivative 'hunt for the switch'. Instead, you tend 
 to find a logical and realistic way to manipulate the environment: knocking down supports to create 
 a ramp, or pushing a plank around to form a bridge, etc. And of course, the convincing explosions 
 and crates being thrown around add to a realistic, cinematic feel for the game.
  
  HL2's graphics may seem superficially unimpressive when put against the detail of Doom 3, but in 
 truth HL2's use of lighting, water and physics (including the use of ragdoll physics) makes for 
 a stronger visual presentation than any other current shooter game. Most impressive was the fact 
 that HL2 looked so good even below reccomended specs, meaning that a powerhouse machine isn't required 
 to appreciate twilight reflected off the canal, or bodies sent flying by a grenade.
  
  HL2 also - surprisingly - sounds good. FPS games are not defined by their sound, and so it is often 
 overlooked. HL2, however, showed surprisingly good use of sound - such as howling winds when you 
 climbed over rooftops, and updates being broadcast to Combine soldiers searching for you in the 
 background - and the sounds used for the Combine are suitably exotic and convincing. The voice 
 acting is simple and appropriately done. Music use in HL2 appeared to be solely scripted, but the 
 actual presentation resulting from this was very impressive, since the music was tailored to the 
 exact moment you were in. It added quite a bit to have a personalised soundtrack for sneaking through 
 deserted sections of Ravenholm, or fleeing from Combine police to the rebel safehouse.
  
  Multiplayer, not included in the retail release, was quickly patched in. The efforts of the mapmaking 
 community are already evident, and I'm confident that in a few months, there will be many high 
 quality maps available. Even as it stands, HL2 deathmatch is fun with a decent variety of maps 
 to play on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungiehalo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2004 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The physics are incredible, you take a shotgun to an enemy boom! they're 
 knocked off their feet realistically (well it looks real, i've never seen anyone get shot by a 
 shotgun...) Anything can be used and most of the time you have to. The immersion is incredible. 
 Everything around you has a specific weight, gravity effects everything. Aside from the techancallities, 
 it is just so friggen fun. Intense chases, exzilerating gun fights and nice peacefull problems 
 solving moments to balance all the action. I spent a whole day and then some playing it... on easy! 
 and i still wasn't done. I'm gunna play it again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrewPeterson89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2004 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I've been gaming for a long time and have seen the effect games like Doom had on the gaming community, 
 and with the release of Half-Life 2 I have to say this is the best game I have played to date. 
 An incredible combination of gameplay, graphics and sound, this is an amazing and immersive game. 
 The guy who reviewed this game is an idiot who's only knock seemed to be on the story, for being 
 too open ended in nature and as he put it, a middle game. Would you knock Empire Strikes Back? 
 That movie left a lot of questions unanswered and hence Jedi came and answered those questions... 
 So if the boys from Valve are leaving themselves for room to develop a third Half-Life game, I 
 say that's a positive, not something you knock this game for. 9.2 is far too low of a score, also 
 I gotta say the fact that Halo 2, with weaker graphics, voice acting and from my opinion a truly 
 campy game that just looks and plays like garbage. Hat's off to Valve and Half-Life 2.... Amazing 
 game, with the greatest weapon ever introduced to a FPS, the gravity gun! FUN TIMES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limbofrog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2004 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I only knocked off on the value one notch because the single eventually ends and you enter the 
 realm of replay and/or multiplayer. But still a great game.
  
  The graphics are at least as good or better than any other game ever made. Great shading, effects, 
 lighting, fog, water, heat waves, energy fields... it's all in there and it's all done right. Of 
 course you need a decent system and a decent graphics card. I have a P4 2.6 with 800fsb, 512 RAM, 
 XPpro, and Gefore4 Ti4600 128RAM. Game runs fairly smooth most of the time on 1024x768 with most 
 of the options turned on. I disable anti virus and most everything else in system tray to get a 
 bit more performance out of it. Load times are bit long and levels are jerky when they first get 
 loaded for 5-10 seconds. Other than that I have had a very smooth playing experience.
  
  Sound is great too. I have been playing in then dark with headphones and between the scary scenes 
 and the sound, I have been creeped out a few times... At least as much as you can expect from a 
 game. Sounds are definitely good and are very reminisant of the sounds used in the first game.
 
  
  The newest thing if you can say that... is the physics. Or at least the way they use it in this 
 game is a bit new. You can pick many object up and move them around or stack them if your careful. 
 But then there is the gravity gun. It allows you to grab and throw large heavy objects like tool 
 carts and fuel barrels that blow up on impact. You can also throw bottles and boxes and distract 
 the enemy into thinking you are somewhere else. Sometimes they acted a little "dumb" in there reactions, 
 but it was mostly ok. There are many times in the game where they work in using the physics and/or 
 grav gun to progress the story. Like rearranging a ramp so you can drive over it or moving a scrap 
 car out of the way.
  
  The AI - well, I kinda think it was the same or maybe even better in the first half-life game. 
 I really wish this area would improve in future games above all others. But it was up to par with 
 other games of this type even though that's not saying much. There were a few times when I noticed 
 the enemies working together against me, but mostly it's just point and shoot and chase or follow 
 or run.
  
  The story - this was probably the best part right after the graphics. It was solid and smooth and 
 always kept me wanted to go on and play the next map or solve the next puzzle. Nothing too complex 
 and nothing too simple. I think I only got lost trying to find what I needed to do next like once 
 or twice for a few minutes before I picked back up on the trail. A few good scary moments and/or 
 big entrances for a new opponent. Good voice acting and character motion. A good bit of interacting 
 with the story that also kinda shows you the ropes as you go. But it was a solid story and was 
 fun to play through.
  
  If I had to pick one thing to complain about - it would be loading times. But that's nit picking.
 
  
  This gets my vote for game of the year for its total package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcahill92129
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2004 6:24 am PT
Review:  best game ive played in a loooooong time. by far best FPS ever. this game is beautiful. Graphics 
 are amazing, gameplay is awsome as original, compelling story (if you read the HL history) , overall, 
 it made me play HL1 (again forlike 10 time) and then replay HL2. i cant say enough on how great 
 this game is. face paced, shoot first, ask questions later, save the day, get the chick, save the 
 world, kind of game. AND it comes with CS: S (beautiful as well) . this is only the second HL game, 
 and judging by the history of it, and the success, there wil be at least 1 more, likely (hopefully) 
 more. i love this game, i got this and SW: KOTOR 2 for xmas, and i cant play KOTOR 2 for over an 
 hour, or else i feel deprived and start thinking about blowng more combine away. its awsome. get 
 it NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffsiver
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2004 12:17 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big player of first person shooters. I still thought I would enjoy this game. But, once 
 I started playing, I got addicted to it. It is a blast. The story is engaging, the action is fun 
 and it is varied. So far, I've driven a air-boat, a dune buggy, shot many different types of guns 
 (including the very cool gravity gun) and I control an army of Antlions. 
  
  Plus the way the games lets you interact with the environment is great. Not to give much away, 
 but I've squished bad guys by using the gravity gun to get them with a car. That was a lot of fun. 
 
  
  The only thing I've noticed missing is that you can't interact with the people around you. They 
 talk to you but you don't reply - some replies (even if they were canned) would have been nice) . 
 
  
  Even with that, WOW is the only word that comes to mind when describing this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hambone26
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2004 7:26 pm PT
Review:  one of the best fps i have ever played in my life. this is best fps to come out this year aside 
 from dar cry and halo 2. 
  
  the first thing you will notice in this game is the graphics. they are amazing , and possibly the 
 best graphics ever. the single player is one of the best around and included is counter strike: 
 source. cs: source is the original cs with new physics and graphics. there is also a half life 
 2 deathmatch. 
  
  if you have fifty bucks go buy this game right now. my only complaint is the multiplayer because 
 cs: source isnt that much better than the old cs and hl2 deathmatch isnt very fun. so after you 
 have completed the single player this game doesnt have much else to offer except to wait for half 
 life 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smuggler217
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2004 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Little did I know when I bought this game that I would be THIS blown away. Half-Life 2 is one of 
 the best game I've ever played and well worth the $50. Even from the begining you will find yourself 
 amazed. The levels are done well and the vehicle levels are great fun. What is great about this 
 game is that every object has an in-game weight, there are many puzzles where you must use materials 
 to climb to a ledge or make a ramp, anything is possible. The weapons are cool and the combat is 
 great. Also if you like Counter-Strike you will love CS: S which is included with the game. One 
 problem that I had is the Install, it took longer than I thought it would and you should probably 
 have Steam. All in all Half-Life 2 is a fantastic game, I also recommend playing the first Half-Life 
 before jumping into this, or you might not get some parts of the great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2004 12:53 am PT
Review:  Maybe not revolutionary, but close. This game has it all. Most importantly, it is FUN. The weapons 
 are much more fun to use than Doom 3. The environments are stunning, and definitely the best ever 
 in a FPS. There is just the right amount of challenge with regards to getting where you need to 
 go. No searching through a manual required to advance. 
  One of the best touches are the old familiar sounds when you charge up your suit or shoot one of 
 the old monsters from the original Half Life. The levels are long and enjoyable; it is nice often 
 to just wander around for awhile after a firefight. Game-play is excellent; the controls really 
 respond the way they should. The only complaint I have, which precludes a perfect score, is the 
 dialoge scenes. While not bad, they are too cutesy for the atmosphere depicted in this alternate 
 world. Thus during these scenes you are almost transported out of the reality the game creates 
 so well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2004 9:21 pm PT
Review:  No game could live up to the expectations of Half Life 2. I've waited as long as I can to review 
 it to hopefully dissuade the residual let-down that any game of such hype would give. 
  
  That said:
  
  I can't say enough about the Gravity Gun. But FINALLY: a physics engine that 
 has some real usefulness to it! Way to go Valve!
  
  The graphics would have been unparralleled - if the game released when it was supposed to - but 
 Crytek and id stole a LOT of Valve's thunder, perhaps most. That said I'm very pleased with its 
 very 'clean' aesthetic.
  
  I heard a lot promoting the sounds of Doom III but I have yet to hear a game with crisper effects. 
 The stuttering bug is apparently quite horrible to cope with but fortunately I was immune to it 
 (phew) .
  
  The storyline was quite disappointing but it held my attention. The ending was over my head. I'm 
 still clueless. And, being that I never played Half Life, I don't know what the heck was going 
 on at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizardsrus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2004 7:25 pm PT
Review:  First let me stat off by saying HL2 is one of the best games of all time. With that being said 
 lets continue with my review. If you are looking for answers to the HL story then you may be disappointed. 
 This game doesnt concentrate on the story it mostly adds on to the mysteriousness that of which 
 is HL2. It starts you off right after you accept the G-Mans proposition at the end of HL2. It 
 takes you on the adventures of Gordon Freeman again. I am not going to spoil the story for anyone. 
 But lets start with the game play. In my book the game play gets a 10/10. The physics that are 
 all around the environment gives you the opportunity to dispose of your enemies in many different 
 ways. Of course you could use the regular weapons to kill your foes or maybe that exploding barrel 
 will do the job or if you look more carefully maybe you will spot the wooden balcony that holds 
 5 barrels that can crush your foes to death with a perfectly placed grenade. You will probably 
 spend most of your time just playing with the physics and try new and inventive ways of killing 
 your enemies. In all I give the storyline an 8/10. It doesnt really answer any of the questions 
 you may have from the previous HL but it does add to the play quite a bit. You will mostly likely 
 leave with more questions than answers. On the graphics side I give HL2 a 10/10 the graphics and 
 the scale of the environments are amazing. The water looks almost real and the effects when a grenade 
 explodes around you are amazing. The details of the environments are outstanding from the crumbled 
 builds to the coastline are fantastic. Now on to the sound, I give the sound a 7/10 mainly because 
 I was one of the unlucky people to have the stuttering glitch. Yes maybe I am a little biased but 
 I did have the glitch until I disable 5.1 which was little upsetting since I am a big fan of audio 
 in games. Overall this is a great game and the inclusion of CS: S makes this a must buy fro any 
 FPS fan. Oh and by the way people say that this game is short but if you just try to blaze through 
 the game just to beat it you will miss out on a lot of the small things that make this game so 
 great. And the AI is smart contrary to what others may say. Just remember to change the difficulty 
 level from easy to at least medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valve_89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2004 4:56 am PT
Review:  I think that Valve has created a very good game. 
  The graphics are really good.
  The sound is confortable.
  The gameplay is very good, but when you open a door you can't see 
 the hands from gordon.
  The advantage of hl2 is the steam system. You can update Hl2 and mods, when it is necessary.
 
  The HL2 dvd, includes the counter-strike: source, a fantastic counter-terrorist mod, map and models 
 creators, etc. There are a excellent pack.
  So,
  Valve countinues the story from half-life 1 to half-life 2, I think that it's a good point and
 
  The scientists, barney, gman, headcrabs, zombies, etc, there are classics models from half-life 
 1.
  Finnaly I recommended to play first Half-life one, and then half-life 2...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpic
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2004 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first half-life. This one begins slow but then turns it up. Whenever you get tired 
 of a senerio it will change. There are many different styles of gameplay. One problem is if it's 
 supposed to be so realistic than why is it so hard to set a barrel upright or jump off a ladder? 
 The vehicles are too hard to drive, but still fun. Many scary parts, too. I love the gravity gun! 
 Nothing like picking up a barrel and making a lifeless rag-doll out of a enemy.
  
  But the thing that really made me mad was the installation. Who do this people think they are -- Adobe? 
 The game only cost $50, but I bet half of that was spent on the convoluted installation and server. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2004 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game. Ok, let's start with single player. The single player game is great. 
 It's fun, has great graphics, sound, gameplay, and physics. It's kinda on the hard side but it's 
 a nice challenge. It could use better music though. The physics is really fun, and adds a fun factor 
 in this game. It's nice you can mess around, but if you are a noob, this game will be hard. As 
 for multiplayer there are currently 2 choices. A deathmatch with Half Life 2 weapons (Similar to 
 UT) or Counterstrike: Source, an updated Counterstrike with new graphics and physics. Both of these 
 are very fun and they are addicting too. This adds lots of replay value. Steam is kinda slow and 
 you need broadband to fully enjoy this game. Counterstrike is harder meaning there are less CZ 
 noobs here, and HL deathmatch is filled with fun physics, although it could use a faster pace. 
 This game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOAT_MAN
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2004 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Just amazing. Wow, now all I need to do is get a better graphics card, and I am all set. Heh
  
  Now, I love how you can use the environments around you to kill an enemy, it is way better 
 than wasting clips on 5 enemys when you could just pull a lever and have a car land on all of them. 
 And guss what! You didnt waste any ammo! I LOVE THIS GAME! The only other first person shooter 
 I truly loved was Chronicles of Riddick. The visuals were just amazing. But this one, I gotta say, 
 beats Riddick. 
  
  I also love picking up items and using them against the enemy. I love itttttttttt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobyJo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2004 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Visuals are the best of any game I have ever played.
  The story line could be somewhat longer and maybe better to a degree.
  Some parts were quite 
 a bit too long to get through, then some went too quick.
  Maybe the quick ones were the ones that were the most fun.
  I thought the Ravenholm sequence 
 was way too long.
  The part with the power boat was way too much fun, therefore too short.
  The mines were long and part was not much fun, the latter parts of the mines was OK. The prison 
 sequal was good, but parts was going too fast.
  The last sequal of the game was way too much fun, therefore went by way too quick. The ending could 
 have been some better IMO. 
  As far as the game goes, super game to play and surely they will make a sequal to this. The door 
 was left open. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazznutty
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2004 9:54 am PT
Review:  1 of the great things of this game is it introduces some awesome vehivcles and you get to play 
 what i thought mostly outside which is a good tihng to me. The graphicsa re amazing and the gameplay 
 is spectacular. if anyone gets a really goodd pc or alreayd has one, not having this game is a 
 great lose. A VERY GREAT LOSE. the storyline is very addicting you will find yourself get attached 
 and craving more and more of it as you go. the sound is also amazing with music that surpases halo 
 2. the sound quality is great and gives the feeling of being afraid at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riki101
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2004 6:01 am PT
Review:  I reviewed this game on AMD athlon 1.3 ghz 40gb HD 16mb intergraded video card (S3 graphics prosavage) 
 384mb ram
  terrible?
  And i still enjoyed it i was playing on low graphics yet it was still great plus i saw videos and 
 screenshots and trust me ther insane
  physics are awsome,,,, still you will need to pass some places with things around you,,
  sounds 
 are great nothing annoying
  value is good comes in 3 cds plus cs: s
  after I had passed the game i found the ending disapointing even though i could not see a thing 
 that time because of graphics i heard the G-man tell a short speech...
  I had heard valvle is making a expansion though.. maybe thats wher the real ending is 
  
  oh 
 and one more thing i would like to state.... I found out that some of the videos you see in hl2 
 were fake.... well they werent fake but some of them like the docks you dont go ther... one of 
 the strider video and klinder or w/e lab you will not expierience still if you have a good computer 
 with atleast radeon 9600 dont wait no more go a buy it you wont be disapointed!! (i tryed to give 
 it a bad score but its to difficult!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truetilldeath
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2004 8:16 pm PT
Review:  
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
 
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
 
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  SIMPLY AAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAZINNGGG
  
  If you own a decent end PC and are a fan of FPS... pick it 
 up , give it a roll... worse comes to worse if your not a fan... just bring it back! DUH!
  I'd have to say the best part was the gameplay overall , the feel ... the fact that you can shoot 
 almost anything , kill enemies in more then one way.. wich is always good.
  Killing is always A+ hahaha 
  Just try the damn game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fynanceguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2004 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was a great visual and auditory experience. But, here is the big But; where is the 
 HL2 Multiplayer game?
  
  The vivid colors combined with the Havok physics system looked simply awesome!
  
  It was a 
 treat just walking around and checking out the scenery! I personally think HL2 combines the vivid 
 colors of Farcry with the textures of Doom 3 (I still think Doom 3 has better character/monster 
 modeling) . 
  
  Too bad Valve did not include a multiplayer game based on the single player game. That is why I 
 would rate this game an 8.5 vs. a 9.5 for not completely supporting their game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2004 6:54 am PT
Review:  After i played halo 2 i was left wanting so much more! Sure the online is good and all but the 
 single player just dint live up to its huge expectations. But half life, my 2nd most anticipated 
 game went all out and even exceeded expectations! The source engine is the greatest thing to happen 
 to gaming! Not only does it look good, you can do so much with its physics, things you could never 
 do in other games! Half life 2 also delivers a intense story with great characters and great cinematic 
 moments. Combine troops are one of the coolest in games and the zombies are scary as they ever 
 were. Which brings to mind the AI which is also excellent. Now, i explained just how great the 
 single player is, but what about multiplayer. Well right out of the box, you get CS source which 
 is of course awesome and hl2 dm (two words-Gravity Gun) . But of course, the other great mods of 
 half life will make a glorious return (Day Of Defeat and Team Fortress better get here soon!) . 
 Basically, this game has got EVERYTHING and its the best purchase i've made in a long time. You 
 wont go wrong with half life 2, as long as you have a good enough computer there shouldnt be anything 
 stopping you from buying this masterpeice. Now, i have to get back to playing this awesome game, 
 so anyone who has doubted buying this game, dont fret anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamic1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2004 2:58 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 has a Single Player compaign that is among the most immersive, interactive, and fun 
 out of any FPS I've ever played. Half Life 2 literally creates a fun and enjoyable game world that 
 was fully interactive, more so than any other action title has in the past. Half Life 2 is more 
 than just a great single player game, its a virtual playground. 
  
  The storyline is pretty solid. All in all, Half Life 2 is more than a worthy follow up the original 
 Half Life, which was one of the greatest FPS games of all time. Half Life 2 has literally raised 
 the bar for future FPS games on all platforms with its interactive game world, lifelike characters, 
 and great level design and gameplay that draws you in from beginning to end.
  
  In addition, Half Life 2 had extremely believable and memorable characters, which was accomplished 
 with detailed models, excellent character animation, and great voice acting and dialogue. Whether 
 it is was Alyx, Barney, the Resistance fighters, or even Dog... the sidekicks and characters that 
 populated the world of Half Life 2 added to its experience, especially when you can command them 
 fighting alongside you.
  
  With the release of HL2: Deathmatch Multiplayer and the CS: Source Map Packs... the value is extended 
 on an already excellent game.
  
  HL2 is the game that will have the greatest positive effect and influence on future games to come 
 and well as the gaming industry as a whole than any other game on any other platform this 2004 
 year.
  
  All and all Valve has delivered the full package with Half Life 2.... definitely get it, it literally 
 is one of the best, and possibly THE best FPS experience currently available on any current platform.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baddogjmh
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2004 12:45 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game I have played all year and plus there will be more with all the mods. 
 The game is almost close to perfect the graphics are awsome the gameplay is good besides the little 
 bit of studdering u get but other then that it is the best game all year. The sound is good awsome 
 timing in the game which makes the game even better sets the mood. I would sugggest getting this 
 game no doubt about it as long as u have the speed to play it tho. SO GO GET IT AND HAVE as much 
 of a good time as I did dont listen to what anyone has said bad about this game run to the store 
 and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOLTOX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2004 2:44 am PT
Review:  Technical Features: 
  
  Without any doubt in my mind, Half Life 2 sets a new level in game-play mechanics. With the use 
 of the advanced Havok physics modeling engine the game world comes to life. Running around throwing 
 crates, robotic cameras, bodies, and what not, against your enemy, is something refreshing in this 
 overcrowded FPS genre. The levels are well designed yet very linear. Voice acting is good but not 
 great; it really doesn't excel in this. Voice/Lip synching is great but nothing spectacular. However, 
 it is a major improvement which surpasses anything released to this date (12-23-2004) . Once thing 
 that does stands out in Half Life 2 models is that for the first time you will see fingers move 
 as opposed to the old and simple fixed joint-less texture. Weapons are cool but nothing stands 
 out other than the new gravity gun. With the gravity gun you can pickup almost any object in the 
 game world and use it as a shield or throw it against your enemies to knock them down. You may 
 also use it to solve numerous puzzles in the game that unfortunately become repetitive after a 
 while. Visually the game is great artistically but, technically, the engine feels like a simple 
 texture upgrade from the first Half Life; there are prettier looking engines (i. e., Far Cry) . Water 
 looks stunning, however. On the other hand, there are no pixel shader effects to smooth the transition 
 between water and shore lines giving them a rough appearance, unlike the smooth shorelines of Far 
 Cry. 
  
  Story: 
  
  Starts off pretty interesting, it reaches a climax, and then it is dropped dead by a lackluster 
 ending. Kind of reminded me of the Far Cry ending which was simply mediocre. At least Half Life 
 2 ends with a little more style. There will be quite a lot of interesting twists in the story. 
 It is a fun story but I am not sure Gabe Newel accomplished what he wanted in this regard. There 
 is no point in giving away the story here. It is good but not excellent. 
  
  Over-hyped?:
  
  That's a rounded yes. But what else could you expect? That's the problem with 
 too much early publicity and broken promises. This game could have been an amazing game of the 
 year if it was released last year when it was scheduled. After the release of Far Cry there was 
 virtually not a whole lot left for Half Life 2 to revamp the genre. Don't get me wrong, Half Life 
 2 is an excellent game that everyone should play. After this waiting-game lesson I don't think 
 I will waste time putting hopes in a game. Just play it when it comes out, enjoy it, and move on. 
 Waiting for Half Life 2 was a torture that simply did not satisfied all the senses that it was 
 marketed for. Should you buy it and play it? What are you waiting for? The game is still a very 
 fun game to play. 
  
  =========
  Merry Christmas to all and Happy New Year (2005) 
  
  Sincerely,
  
  MOLTOX
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willhelm
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2004 1:07 am PT
Review:  After playing throught Half-Life 2 twice, I am afraid to say that it is not the best game of all 
 time. That honor still belongs to the first Half-Life. I do not even think it should be considered 
 the game of 2004. That would be Unreal Tournament 2004. Here is the thing: HL2 plays well, looks 
 and sounds awesome and comes with CS: Source, which, for many, is a very good thing. However, the 
 story ends abrubtly, which is very, very dissapointing, and Counter-Strike never did a thing for 
 me. The biggest knock against HL2 is the neccesity of Steam, which, sorry Valve, is not good at 
 all. HL2 is brilliant, but not at the same level as its predecessor, and Steam is completely contemptible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer0000006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2004 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The original half life caught us all by suprise, and it brought a world of gaming at the time that 
 was unheard of. The sequal, Half Life 2, is no where near as grounding breaking, but it delivers 
 enough thirlls. The graphics give you as sense of being in an actual world. Though the lighting 
 and shadowing is no where near as good as Doom 3's it is still good enough. The gameplay feels 
 exactley like that of the first Half Life, but there was nothing wrong with the gameplay of the 
 first Half Life. The sound in the game was great. Half Life 2 is worth its price tag, the single 
 player game is already worth it, but since it does ship with counter strike: source, it is worth 
 more than it's price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectricVoodoo
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 23, 2004 10:48 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is a game of dizzying highs and jarring lows. While it provided us a near perfect visual 
 experience with the best implementation of physics seen to date, it also provides a nonsensical 
 story and action ripped straight from it's 6-year old predecessor. For every amazing scripted sequence 
 that grabs you by the collar and beckons you onward, you get a tedious vehicular level that becomes 
 boring five minutes later (for the record, the two vehicle sequences last WELL over an hour each) . 
 For every intriguing plot-point you get a dozen unanswered questions. That is why I wonder why 
 Half-life 2 is receiving the incredible reviews it has been receiving: Nothing in the game hasn't 
 been seen before, barring the engine (which I hope will be put to decent use in the future) . 
 
  
  As a quick summary, Half-life 2 consists of numerous bland corridor-crawls broken up by the spectacular 
 scripting of Half-life 1, a duo of atrocious vehicle sequences, and several breaks for character 
 interaction. The flawless visual experience, and amazing sound effects and voice acting make some 
 of this forgivable, but it just isn't enough to make up for completely derivative gameplay. In 
 the end, Half-life 2 will be remembered as an amazing engine done a disservice by it's creators. 
 I'm sure the numerous developers who will get their hands on the engine will be able to infuse 
 it with the imagination that Valve clearly lacked.
  
  Very disappointing. Wait for a price-drop before buying, as mods will begin coming out around that 
 time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hifoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2004 1:03 am PT
Review:  The variety of this game is what really gives it its unique gameplay. No other FPS has so many 
 different levels and small tasked needed to complete it. The use of a physics engine never used 
 before in a game allows this to create a living world. Any player will stop through out the game 
 just to play with the surrounding enviroments and realize that everything that is nt bolted down 
 can be manipulated. 
  
  The gravity gun really gives this game an excellent twist and gameplay. Some of the small details 
 are so obvious, yet many games look past them, but they really give the coolness to this game. 
 Very few games acheive this. 
  
  The single player seems like just the middle block of an overall story. No real information is 
 given through the game, it merely advances the story. Some people may say that the ending is a 
 big antii-climatic, but it does keep you wanting the third installment of the game to come out 
 as soon as possible. Hopefully it isnt another 6 years.
  
  Multiplayer is counter-strike source and now Half life 2 Deathmatch. I am not the biggest CS fan, 
 but HL2 DM is very fun and many new mods are in the works as we speak. With the physics system 
 I am sure some very unique and interesting mods will be created soon. This is a FPS that every 
 FPS fan should play. Multiplayer doesnt compare to other games but has a lot of potential. Single 
 player is quite an experience. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_Messenjah
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2004 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a wonderful sequal, I don't play much shooters but this game is the best you can 
 get. With stunning graphics and amazing gameplay, this game was definatly worth the wait.
  
  Once again, you are Gordon Freeman. You wake up and have no idea where you are. Looking around, 
 people seem to be treated somewhat like slaves. Leaded by people wearing white gas masks and a 
 strange suit. Already there, you can see what the game can do, looking around you creatures and 
 people look just wonderful. Walking around, other people start talking to you after you leave the 
 train station. The Combine, those guys in masks, don't seem to appreciate your company, it's best 
 to stay from a distance before they hit you with their little sticks.
  
  You eventually get outdoors, it's bright and there are many machines floating around. Everything 
 is being watched by either those machines or the combines watching you. When you get outside, you 
 see that everything is very well done, you see some monsters go by who all look great. When you 
 get deeper in the game, to when you can actually fight, you see you can even hit monsters who are 
 already down. Like the headcrabs for example, It's always fun to just hit them over and over. When 
 they come close to an edge, you can even see their little legs dangling over it, the detail is 
 just stunning.
  
  The game can be very tricky at times, especially when you run out of ammo. Luckily, you always 
 have your trusted crowbar at your side. Here's a tip, if you see a zombie lying or sitting down, 
 shoot it. Because if you don't, it'll just wake up and suprise you. Half-Life 2 has got that little 
 eerie horror feeling in it, just walk into an abandoned house, blood stains everywhere, dead corpses 
 and even body parts on strings that you can hit with your crowbar to see them move or swing.
  
  The A. I is also very good, Zombies always know where you are and if you kill them, the headcrabs 
 will come running at you even faster. There's also all those little obstacles and puzzles, but 
 it keeps you entertained with the battles and fights in the middle. If you're new to Half-Life, 
 you're probably wondering if the first game was any different. The sequel is much like the one 
 before it, the same style that never gets old and the first person view. My advice is, if you liked 
 this Half-Life 2, you'll like number one.
  
  Overall, Half-Life 2 is a great game, everything you'd want in that little disc. So, if you have 
 any money to spend and don't know which game to buy... You now know. Don't listen to the haters 
 who play consoles only, they are all wrong, this game is far from a flop and a dissapointement. 
 And if you've never played a PC game before, the keyboard is easy to use and the mouse makes it 
 real easy to aim. So, go down to your local game shop and purchase this game as soon as you can 
 if you didn't already. You'll spend days playing it.
  
  -Teh Messenjah out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelse1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2004 5:48 am PT
Review:  First, IMO Half Life was the best PC game of it's era, though not all at the same level of greatness. 
 Well, years have passed and with Half Life 2 they've completely redone the engine to a remarkable 
 degree. Yet it still feels like Half Life, the same sense of horror and foreboding at times, the 
 same scary helicopters, the same dangerous soldiers, some of the same monsters. The graphics are 
 the best I've ever seen, and the engine allows for amazing interactivity with the environment. 
 The music is sparse but effective. The gameplay varies quite a lot from open environments with 
 boats and buggys, to enclosed haunted-house environments with monsters around every corner, to 
 making your way through the tunnels and burning buildings in City 17. Admitting I haven't played 
 most of the GOTY candidates, let me state they can't beat this game. Cries masterpiece from every 
 exploding barrel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WickedBadMan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2004 6:43 am PT
Review:  An amazing experience. It is for everyone, you can tell as it will run on even the lamest of rigs. 
 The game engine is amazing. You can almost pick up everything with Gordon's new gravity gun, very 
 interactive as everything sounds just as it should whether it be smacking someone across the face 
 or throwing it into a cardboard box. The multiplayer aspect is a bit on the lamer end of the stick, 
 extremely demanding and nothing that will be played for more than a week without getting repetitive, 
 hopefully modders can fix this up. As far as singleplayer FPS goes its a gem, unfortunately as 
 far as story goes, when it all comes to a close you may find yourself thinking..."What have I been 
 doing this entire time?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2004 5:45 am PT
Review:  THIS is the FPS I have been waiting for. Great graphics, great control and great atmosphere. The 
 game feels wide open and you feel as if there are many options to achieve your goal. There are 
 no cheap kills, only kills when you make mistakes. I hate games that kill you off with foes that 
 come out of closets (Doom 3) or kill you from behind or from 2 miles away (Far Cry) The AI is tough 
 but fair. In Far Cry I could be a mile away under a bush and the guy will put one through my head. 
 In Doom 3 the difficulty comes because your playing in the dark. This game gives you a combination 
 of Doom 3, Far Cry, and Chronicles of Riddick. You could also throw a little Halo 2 in there as 
 well. This game is so good you feel as if you are inside of a movie. Once you start playing it 
 is difficult to stop. The graphics are fantastic, maybe the best I have ever seen. Some of the 
 facial animations are so lifelike it is spooky. If your going to get only one PC game , get this 
 one. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2004 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I will admit off the bat that I enjoyed Half-life. It was a great FPS for its time and perhaps 
 along with Doom is the only reason I play FPS's today. However, I am not a big FPS shooter fan. 
 I have played Halo and Halo 2, but that was more for the multiplayer and coop modes than anything 
 else. So what does this have to do with Half-Life 2??? Well, because I thoroughly enjoyed this 
 game despite some flaws in its release and implementation and I think you will to.
  
  I need to first talk about Valve's attempt at security for this game. They administer the game 
 via Steam which I guess is an attempt to stop pirating and stealing of their game. Now, dont get 
 me wrong I admire the attempt, but this system caused a lot of problems for true buyers of this 
 game and I for one do not think you should be killing innocents to punish the bad. I for one played 
 the first couple of levels of this game with distorted and skipping sound before I was able to 
 resolve the problem without the help of Valve's somewhat helpless technical support crew. For a 
 game that was touted as THE game to buy for 2004 I was disappointed before I really began playing 
 the game.
  
  So thats not a good start, but here is where things get good. The game, once I fixed the sound 
 problems, is just plain AWESOME. It is one of the most immersive gaming experiences I have ever 
 played - on console or PC. It has a mix of all of the elements that gamers desire to put you in 
 the world you are playing in and make you feel as if when you turn around their will be a big arse 
 alien standing behind you. If you have the PC power and the surround sound set up this game is 
 as good as it gets in terms of atmosphere.
  
  Since we are talking atmosphere lets get into details. First and foremost, the graphics are revolutionary. 
 This is one promise that Valve lived up to. The graphics, especially on high end machines, are 
 just incredible. The water effects on the air boat level is breathtaking and I often just rode 
 around to check it out. Each character is beautifully rendered with fantastic detail. The buildings 
 and backgrounds are amazing and considering how much stuff is in City 17, it makes the graphics 
 even more unbelievable. Just walking around in this game is fun. The graphics really push the experience 
 to a whole new level and when you are blasting away at the CPU's (human and mutated forms) you 
 really work up a sweat due to the immersive impact of the video.
  
  A slightly less amazing, but still very good aspect of the game is the sound. A lot of people complain 
 about the lack of music, but you know I think it creates an amazing atmosphere to be wandering 
 around Ravensholm (a creepy town in HL2) and only hearing the various sounds coming from around 
 you. Really sets you on edge. Occassionally the music will pick up and add a nice break from the 
 environmental sound effects, but really thats not the highlight. The best thing is the voice acting. 
 All fo the characters have great lip synching and the voices are all top notch. Once I got over 
 my sound issues, I was amazed at how life like the characters dialogue was. Definitely a plus in 
 a game where blasting enemies is the key feature.
  
  Speaking of blasting enemies, there is tons of that. Once again you play Doctor Gordon Freeman, 
 a scientist by trade but when you push him he is one mean SOB. The variety of weapons you get to 
 play with is on par or better than any other FPS I have played this side of Halo. The key new weapon 
 of course is the grav gun and that shows off another simply incredible feature of this game, the 
 physics. Everything seems so real with the way your environment and objects in it react to you 
 pushing them, picking them up or blasting them into smithereens. The grav gun basically allows 
 you to pick up almost any object and use it to your advantage. Need a weapon, grab that saw blade 
 and launch it at the mutated head crabs. Need a shield pick up that crate and use it to deflect 
 the bullets racing towards you. You can also use it to blast energy at enemies who may be getting 
 a little to close for comfort. Its a great new weapon and one thats fun to play with. Other weapons 
 include the standard shotgun, pulse rifle, handgun, revolver, rocket launcher, crossbow, submachine 
 gun, and of course the crowbar. When all else fails Freeman can go into full on psycho mode and 
 bash the brains out of any enemy stupid enough to get close. Doesnt get more fun than that.
  
  You get to fight a good variety of enemies along the way and learning ways to attack them is 
 definitely important to getting through the game in one piece. My favorite definitely had to be 
 the Striders. They are huge!! My most hated, the mutated head crab that throws the poisonous hrad 
 crabs. Dont know what its called but it scared me senseless a number of times.
  
  A very fun addition to this game is the vehicle play. The levels with the air boat and buggy were 
 some of the funnest I have had in a FPS game. They are also some of the most amazing graphically 
 and will instantly make you feel like you are along for the ride. These levels are reason enough 
 to play the game.
  
  Let me detail a few downsides that definitely are present here. First, the game is not very difficult. 
 The first several levels, even Ravensholm are just plain easy. The game gets a little harder as 
 you go on, but overall there are plenty of weapons, armor and life everywhere you go. I would not 
 go so far as to say you could just blindly go through this game without worrying about health, 
 but if you are cautious and good at FPS's you wont be challenged by this game to much. Second, 
 The story could have been a little more detailed and interesting. There are no cut scenes, which 
 I dont mind at all, but it would have been nice for the dialogue with NPC's to be more interesting 
 and interactive. You definitely do not play this game for the story. Third, and this one is not 
 a biggie for me, but the loading times between sections of the game are long and take you out of 
 that immersive experience of gameplay to a degree. Again, its not a big thing, but something worth 
 mentioning.
  
  For value you get the Steam software that allows you to play HL2 deathmatch, Counter strike multiplayer 
 and more. Its a cool extra addition to the game that really is fun.
  
  In conclusion, this is a must buy for any FPS fan and people more like myself who just like good 
 fun games. You will enjoy this one and if you have the PC to run it at high levels its even more 
 amazing. Gordon Freeman rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joruhacker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2004 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This year was great for the FPS. We had such hits as Far Cry and Doom 3 (I personaly didn't like 
 Doom 3) at the end of the year we have the one and only Half-Life 2. You all know that Half-Life 
 2 is bringing revolutionary graphics (besides the times when buildings look like boxes) but also 
 Half-Life 2 is just a very fun game to play. Half-Life 2 is pretty easy and short but you will 
 propably want to play it all over again so this is not a problem. HL2 delivers very interesting 
 characters but the story isn't that good because it doesn't start or end in the game. You start 
 and play through the game knowing nothing why are you there and why are you doing this. It's like 
 a middle chapter in a much longer book (Half-Life 3? :) ) . But that isn't much of a problem and 
 it's still a fun game to play. HL2 delivers a quite big arsenal and every weapon is a fun to use 
 tool. There is even a level in the game were you have to use only a gravity gun and it is very 
 fun to do it. I agree that HL2 has it's bad sides but for me this game would have been fun to play 
 even without the shooting element which is because of it's revolutionary graphics engine (Source) . 
 Even if you don't like FPS you must play it to see the best graphics, character and faicial animations. 
 To me Half-Life 2 is simply the best FPS ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesillycheez
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2004 4:23 pm PT
Review:  HL2 may be one of the greatest shooters (if not games) of all time. The story picks up right where 
 the first left off, kind of.... You once again play as MIT-graduate and crowbar-wielding Gordon 
 Freeman, the hero of Black Mesa. The gameplay in HL2 is tried and true (with an exception; more 
 on that later) ; it's intense and punctuated by the excellent enemy AI. Pretty much the same as 
 Half-Life, not that that's a bad thing, mind you.
  
  The most noticable addition to the gameplay is the gravity gun; this gun turns almost anything 
 into a weapon. Low on ammo? See that toilet over there? Put 2 and 2 together.... The physics-based 
 gameplay isn't just for show, however. It really adds a tactical edge to each firefight.
  
  Another addition is vehicles. There are two fairly linear but altogether extraordinary vehicle 
 sequneces, each being rather lengthy. The vehicles (and gravity gun) add some much needed variety 
 to the sometimes (but not often) boring and/or repetative gameplay.
  
  The graphics engine powering HL2 is amazing. Facial expressions have never looked so real and the 
 water effects are breath-taking. The Source engine isn't without its flaws though. It tends to 
 give everything a shiny look, even to something that is supposed to look dirty and grimy. However, 
 this is mostly only noticable in the game's excellent multiplayer, Counter-Strike: Source. Not 
 that you'll be paying much attention to how shiny the floor is when bullets are flying past your 
 head!
  
  Recently Valve intoduced Half-Life: Deathmatch, a DM and TDM multiplayer mode based on the single 
 player campaign. So if Counter-Strike: Source isn't your thing, try lauching a toilet at your best 
 friend's head with the gravity gun!
  
  While the game is both entertaining and innovative, the game can be frustratingly difficult on 
 even the normal difficulty. Fortunately the game has both auto and quick saves to help out.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a must-own for fans of the original masterpiece or just shooters in general. 
 It has some bug problems but Valve is fixing most of those through Steam auto-patches. It's excellent 
 single player will take 15 to 20 hours but the multiplayer will own your soul. It's damn near perfect 
 and is an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2004 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The original Half Life grew to be a huge success, an instant classic and a first in how developer's 
 approach making first person shooters, and action games, and even went further to how gamers should 
 play the game. It was innovative, original and featured an intelligence behind it, a subtle understanding 
 of gamer's response and needs when playing the game; it pushed you to the extreme with it's intense 
 action gameplay, racked your brain with deadly puzzles and made you laugh out loud with it's open 
 ended gameplay, which had me continously killing the innocent scientists who stumbled across my 
 path. 
  The biggest question when considering its sequel, obviously is how will it match that. How could 
 this game beat the original and add more to bring back those feelings, and epsecially with so many 
 new games that follow in the original's tracks so closely that by the time of Half Life 2's release, 
 there would already be another twenty knockoffs of the original to compete with! Well I must say 
 that the developers didn't go out of thier way to develop a whole new way of playing the game, 
 and instead concentrated on what made the original such a hit and expanded on that, and even added 
 something that most other developers are incappable of doing. Before I go into what features make 
 this Half Life unique, I would like to mention that the reason why it probably, successfully managed 
 to steer clear of merely copying other games and the original, is that most other developers rush 
 games through development to make more money, while this game took years to complete, and the wait 
 was worth it. 
  
  Half Life 2 features so many features that it must be catagorized, basically it has all that the 
 original does and more, the gameplay boasts an impressive new environment, everything reacts the 
 way it should, obeying the numerous laws of nature, I had many laughs when I swung a large piece 
 of cargo from a magnetic crane; the wires got caught on a lamp-post and the whole thing shook realisticly 
 and then feel where it was. Now that may not sound like much, bit just those subtle, little touches 
 can make all the difference. These new environmental features are made even better with the inclusion 
 of the gravity gun, which does exactly what the name implies; you can move objects, draw them closr 
 and pick items up, lgiht enemies can be thrown far away and using the gravity gun, when being fired 
 upon, you may pick up a radiator for instance and use it as a shield. Although I would much rather 
 pick out one of the games guns and blast that. The weapons have improved remarkably, so to compensate 
 for a new unforgiving (yet charmingly intelligent) set of AI enemies which range from the usual 
 dictatorship made troopers, to Antlions, who are savage creatures who pop up out of the ground 
 when you step on sand; a hint, get your shotgun out! Anyhoo, with so much attention to detail the 
 enemies react to your assault of bullets the way they should, and had me laughing everytime I shot 
 a guy in the face. Some weapons are revamped versions of the original game's guns, like the pistol 
 and shotgun obviously, but there are also impressive new weapons such as the Pulse rifle which 
 lets you get accurate shots from a distance in a machine gun fashion and has a second function 
 which, well I wouldn't want to ruin it for you, but lets just say, fire it, and get outta there! 
 
  
  The story - Half Life 2, opens on City 17 (introduced, rather menacingly by The G Man) , where it 
 is apparantly safer. Here the people live under a dictatorship where for thier own good, one scientist 
 (a former scientist, beside Gorden in Black Mesa) keeps the city under heavy surveillence and you'll 
 get a real feeling of just how bad living here is, unfortunatley you don't get to spend long here 
 as you're nudged on to the next chapter of the story quite quickly. Basically Gordan and his followers 
 are trying to come up with a new system of getting innocent people out of the city, but with his 
 presence discovered, these plans have some challenges to face before the people gain their freedom 
 (if they ever do - nudge nudge, wink wink... I won't go into depth, I wouldn't want to ruin what 
 little story there is. Although that is not a bad thing, it has a simple story with a lot of building 
 in the character's personality and the overall atmosphere of the game) . Occasionally you'll see 
 The G Man pop up like he did in the original, as well. 
  
  Now, no game is perfect and I must come onto the games downfalls, even though they are quite small. 
 1. The AI of your followers could do with some tuning by the developers, I found them immensely 
 irritating as their survival is crucial in parts and they often run out and get themselves blown 
 up, even when you command them to stay put, also they tend to walk in your way or get right up 
 behind you, so theres no way of retreating from an enemy assault with out nudging your way through 
 them. It had me ripping out my hair and cursing in front of my family for some time. 
  2. Saving the game is alkward, you cannot simply have a file and overwrite it when you want or 
 keep a saved game, it is constantly overwriting your progress when it automatically saves when 
 you enter a new area or start a new game. 
  3. Sometimes in the heat of battle, the music can become loud and bothering, it really grates your 
 brain. 
  
  Overall Half Life 2 is an amazing game that offers just as much innovation and intelligence as 
 the first. It's gameplay is smooth and easy to access, the graphics are revolutinary, even using 
 the same technology as the likes of Pixar. The sound is brilliant, crisp effects and whizzing bullets, 
 and some out of this world voice talent, even superior to some of the animation films out there 
 today. The game is rather short, but with two types of multiplayer (one you'll have to download) 
 it will keep you coming back for more, or if online mulitplayer isn't your scene, the game is extrememly 
 addictive and will have you going through City 17, again and again. 
  
  Closing comment: 
  GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbarnard
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2004 2:57 am PT
Review:  I've been anticipating this game as long as a lot of other people out
  there. I had it preordered from Gamestop since E3 2003 and went insane
  waiting for it to finally 
 ship. When I picked it up and had the
  Collector's edition in my hands, I felt so excited, I was like a kid
  again, getting Wasteland 
 or a Gold-Box D&D game back in the day. So, I
  felt I'd give the game a really thorough play before I reviewed it.
  
  Holy Frijoles Cannelloni, 
 Batman! It's a great game! I've played
  through the single player on Normal and Hard, now (without cheating,
  which is really rare for 
 me) and I have never enjoyed playing a
  first-person shooter more than Half-Life 2. The graphics are
  top-notch, right up there with 
 Doom 3 and Far Cry in technical merits,
  but I like the more realistic style of HL2 a lot more than the other
  games' style. The game-play 
 is thoroughly enjoyable. There are a few
  slow parts, but there are really fun and inventive sections placed at
  regular intervals. The 
 action is just downright exciting, and you feel
  intensely motivated throughout the entire game. There are some parts
  that get your pulse pounding 
 and get you yelling curses at your PC!
  The sound is unbelievably good. It's very immersive and well done. The
  multiplayer parts of 
 Counter-Strike and the new HL2 DM are a lot of
  fun as well. They're not extremely comprehensive, but we all know what
  the HL Mod community 
 is capable of, and what was included is good
  enough for now. I bought HL2 for the incredible single-player
  experience, and I was not disappointed.
 
  
  Half-Life 2 is all I've ever looked for in a FPS. I will be playing
  this game for years to come, and there's no way I can rate it anything
  other than a perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roundhay
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 19, 2004 3:38 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 could have been much more than it turned out to be in the end. Its a lot of hard work 
 progressing through the game and all the time I was expecting something special for my efforts. 
 From Our Benefactors on, however, the story begins to fail, and we never really get to know who 
 our benefactors are. It turns out that Dr. Breen is the only real force to conquer  but who 
 or what exactly was pulling his strings? With whom was he collaborating exactly, and to what end? 
 How was our species to achieve Breens ambitions? None of these questions gets an answer and 
 in the end up the games just about survival and defeating Dr. Breen - disappointing. For all we 
 know Dr. Breen could have been the good guy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gman1029
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  This is a great game with an intriguing story and amazing gameplay. The characters are developed 
 well and the story picks up right where the first left off. It still leaves some questions that 
 hopefully will be answered in future titles. This is one of the better games I've played in a long 
 time. The gravity gun adds a whole new level of immersion to the gameplay. The game comes with 
 Counter-Strike: Source, a game which is worth the price alone. With the possibilities available 
 in this game, you'll be entertained for many hours. The character animations are some of the best 
 I've seen outside of cinematic sequences. The face reactions and structure is absolutely stunning. 
 Being able to manipulate almost any object is something that not many games have acheived. With 
 the games gripping story and revolutionary gameplay, this will be a game that will be used for 
 comparison for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowcuz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2004 10:29 am PT
Review:  Story: The story in half life is confusing. In the first half life it did not really explain much 
 about the story. In half life 2 it picks off right after half life. You start off in a train where 
 the mysterious G-Man is talking to you. After the train has stopped your in some kind of station 
 where all these soldiers known as the Combine starts taking in prisoners. Soon you meet your friends 
 who try to help escape and the Combine soldiers starts to go after you...... keep playing and you'll 
 find out.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are more than amazing. There is no word that can explain it. But you have 
 to have a really good PC in order to experience all the great textures and high quality resolution. 
 The lighting is very nice and the characters are detailed in every way.
  The characters have different facial expressions and some look even real.
  
  Gameplay: In the 
 first Half life I did not really like the gameplay. Even though I played it, I stopped near the 
 end because it got too tedious because of all those jumping puzzles, there wasn't enough action, 
 and it was always to quiet. But in Half life 2 everything is fixed. You don't have to worry about 
 jumping puzzles, there is a lot of action to go around, and the music gets you in the mood to go 
 on a killing spree. All the weapons are great and I never get tired of using them. My personal 
 favorite are the Crowbar (what is Half life without the crowbar?) and the Gravity gun. There are 
 more enemies and as you progress the enemies get harder to kill and harder to avoid (Combine Sniper) .
 
  
  Sound: Back in the old Half life there was hardly any music and the sound effects were just plain 
 dull. Half life 2 impoved on the sound. You actually have music in this game and I love it. The 
 way the guns sound while firing are nice.
  
  Replay/Value: If you have a decent PC then you should get this game. There isn't really any replay 
 value once you beat the game. But theres online multiplayer which add tons of replay. You have 
 regular Half life 2 deathmatch and Counter Strike: Source (comes with Half life 2) . The multiplayer 
 should keep you busy for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2004 12:06 am PT
Review:  After six years of waiting, Half-Life 2 is finally here. As you all know the sequel's story's about 
 the Combine taking over Earth. You and a group of rebels will have to dismantle this government.
 
  
  The gameplay of HL2 is probably it's better aspect. All weapons are great but there is something 
 that is a level above that, a physics-only weapon called the gravity gun. In fact, using the environments 
 to kill your enemies is wonderful. No more ammo? Take out your GG and take that radiator lying 
 over using it as a shield to approach the group of enemies then shoot it at a guy, take it back, 
 you get it..
  
  The puzzles are very cool, because you have to use your mind to solve them correctly. Whats great 
 when you have to find a solution is that you must think larger than you would normally. Nearly 
 all puzzles will give a good time with physics.
  
  As you play through the game, you'll tell yourself : this story isnt really involving!. But I tell 
 you that, wait till the last level. Its amazing! Yes its a cliffhanger, but a so wonderful one! 
 In terms of value, HL2 should lasts a good 20-25 hours in normal mode. And I think its worth while 
 to go back through it because its so amazing.
  
  The characters are really interesting too. Especially with these good graphics and lip-sync. The 
 campaign "peace'' moments are really involving because how good Alyx, Eli, Mossman and Breen act.
 
  
  The graphics are really well done. Source is a wonder. Sharp and high-res textures are among all 
 levels. Be sure to see some real graphicals wonders in here. More to that, the game is well optimized 
 and personnally, I never had the stuttering. All the voice acting is top notch as you would have 
 expected. In some action-packed moments of the game you'll hear some pretty electronical rhythms.
 
  
  Overall, GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaniel420
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 17, 2004 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised that after such a long wait for the sequel to the best game ever, there would be 
 as many problems as there are. Throughout the tedious six years, all I kept hearing about was how 
 it was going to work on all computers beautifully because of how compatible the Source code was. 
 Well, my system outdid all of the recommended specs and it still is clunky and annoying to play 
 at times. I think that more ratings web-sites and magazines need to play the game on different 
 systems to get an accurate reference to how the game is played. I'm sure that playing on a souped 
 up system would make any game worthy of my time. It's just really disappointing. 
  
  Also, the story provided more questions than answers. That's not good storytelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdhps
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2004 12:56 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best first person shooter to come along ever. The immersiveness of the game 
 never wears off, through any part of this amazing accomplishment of a game. 
  
  At the first you are introduced without a weapon just like many other games. You quickly come to 
 realize the scope and which this game will be. The graphics are amazing as well as the sound is 
 just spectacular through its entirety. 
  
  Get this game or you will be sorry also comes with counterstrike source which is a very good upgrade 
 of the extremely popular origal Half-LIfe MOD CounterStrike.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redtiger676
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2004 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1998, the video game world was great. Games were solid, the techonlogy was evolving, and 
 Half-Life debuted. 
  This fast-paced FPS game amazed everyone. But now, it's a different story.
  After six years in 
 the making, Sierra has finally released the sequel to one of the greatest game ever: Half-Life 
 2. Half-Life 2 takes everything from Half-Life 1 and makes it much, much greater. The graphics, 
 sound, everything, is the best ever seen in a video game. 
  I can't say much about this game, I'm speechless about how amazing it is. Try it out, because you'll 
 never forget it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joriath
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 16, 2004 4:45 am PT
Review:  Frustrating. Even more than disappointing. That's my overall feel about this game. For what it 
 is and what it could have been. Sure, it has great graphics and an impressive (if somewhat tiresome) 
 physics engine. Then you have the facial animation. Great, sure. Awesome. But is there a game behind 
 all the eye candy? Those systems should be designed to enhance your playing experience, not to 
 replace it. Half Life 2 is a rollercoaster made out of some good action scenes and quite some plain 
 boring ones... to speak not of the unbearable loading times. Damn! They wanted suspension of disbelief, 
 but throw a bucket of cold water in your face every ten minutes. "Where you enjoying you playing 
 time in our world? Now get back to your world, we have to load the next level!".
  
  The gameplay is smooth, but nothing extraordinary. Doom 3 or Far Cry (to name a couple recent shooters) 
 are far more intense. The vehicle's rides are too long, and repeat a structure that grows old pretty 
 quickly, as do the pull-plug/climb-pipe level design. The AI is anything but intelligent, specially 
 regarding your fellow "freedom fighters", that can get to your nerves, treading on your toes most 
 of the time.
  
  Then we have storytelling and pacing... The worst I can say about this game is that, the moment 
 I finished it, it left me cold, empty, whit that sort of "so what" sensation. I had this feeling 
 during the whole time I spent playing HL2 that I needed some kind of attachment to the world I 
 had been put on and the people that lived in it, but I couldn't manage to create any bonds. I mean, 
 you get there for some untold reason, pushed into this straight line from beginning to end, and 
 that's it! No answers. No sense of accomplishment. No nothing. And yet there are some fellow players 
 that liked the story? What story!? To speak not of that cheap ending-stunt pulled by the guys at 
 Valve (prepping the ground for HL3,  la Halo2?) . I like to find a meaning for my actions, and 
 I didn't find one in HL2.
  
  Finally, I won't start the whole Steam debate again, but it sure is annoying; it doesn't rise the 
 overall score.
  
  Back at Black Mesa, everything made sense. Not anymore; kind of what happened with DeusEx and DeusEx2. 
 Mr. Newell, shinier doesn't mean better. Do no be fooled: HL2 doesn't live up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cagoni
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2004 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I have waited for this game for years like alot of you out there. The waiting is now over and I 
 think it was worth the wait. The graphics are stunning to say the least. It is so immersive. One 
 thing that sets this game way before the rest is the character animation and facial animation. 
 It rocks!
  
  The story is mysterious and compelling like in the first game. I long to learn more but i don't 
 have much time to play it right now.
  
  The gameplay is the same combination of action and puzzlesolving wich I enjoy very much.
  
 
  If you enjoyed the first game don't hesitate to go you and get this one.
  
  Regards
  Carsten
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabraswel5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 15, 2004 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Everyone already knows how good of a game HL2 is however i dont see how game spot can say that 
 the game is not revolutionary. The character animation has set an extreamly high standard that 
 no one is even trying to impliment in there game. If we also look back at the past we will see 
 nothing but failed attempts at trying to get good physics that are actually relevent into a game. 
 That compleatly revolutionized the FPS and im sorry but games now will just feel cookie cutter 
 and not to immersive for me. THey have already mastered sound intergration, and cinematic relevance. 
 This game perfected and set a standard for how immersive games actually are, not how they are setup 
 to "feel" immersive. Sorry but I extreamly have to disagree that that this game did not revolutionize 
 the FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2004 2:14 am PT
Review:  I was as excited as everyone else out there when Half-Life 2 finally hit the release date. Well, 
 after some days of playing it, here is my review. Shoot me, kill me, it's only a review.
  
  Let's start with the good stuff. First of all, the facil animations are nearly perfect. No other 
 game has reacher this perfection in the animations of the characters' faces. The lip sync is also 
 extremely detailed.
  Also, the physics are implemented in the game in a excellent way. It feels more realistic that 
 any other game (Painkiller, Far Cry, you name it) . The gravity gun speaks for itself! You can pick 
 objects such as razorblades and throw it to enemies, and well, you imagine the rest.
  
  To be honest, there isn't any bad things about Half-Life. The ONLY and ENORMOUS problem it has 
 is that is doesn't bring too many new features like HL1 did back in '99. Sure, the graphics are 
 incredible, and the gravity gun rocks, but there is nothing THAT great. Read on,
  
  The buldings look plain and little detailed. There isn't too much detail in everything. Even in 
 one of the first levels a "railroad" was nothing more than a simple texture. Watching the buildings 
 reminded me of Soldier of Fortune, and even SoF had a more advanced "enemy body damage" engine. 
 In HL2 you can only... well, find out by yourself, I gave you a clue already.
  
  However, even on a lousy PC like mine (check my specs on my proflie) the game runs very smoothly, 
 the graphics look great and the loading times are very short. The sound is fine too, although you 
 will hear some effects from the original HL here. And more than once.
  
  So, HL2 is a great game, but it has nothing that is completely ground-breaking. I say it's just 
 as good as Far Cry. I even think that Far Cry looks more detailed that HL2, maybe because there 
 are no buildings at all in there. I think that it's being overrated a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2004 7:18 pm PT
Review:  After years of development and waiting, finally we have the chance to taste the worthy sequel of 
 the legendary 1998 hit title having heavily influenced the FPS genre. The overall design is indeed 
 superb, as well as the attention to detail we can find in almost every compound of the game. Very 
 scarcely do we see that kind of meticulous work devoted to a game, for a result showing in all 
 glory aspects the long years of polishing made to the gameplay and all the artistry.
  
  Although some other great hits have reached the same level of polish with only a few residual bugs 
 at the release, like UT2004, the squashing done for HL2 is impressive - even when considering the 
 additional delays. The gameplay is incredibly fluid for responsive controls, timely coded like 
 swiss jewelry. Perfection is quite hard to achieve nowadays; the games are so complex with all 
 the programming done within a powerful engine that clipping issues related to PC games are almost 
 unavoidable. There are some here too, fortunately they are very dispersed and half the time related 
 to the sound stuttering some may have experienced with the retail version. By the exception of 
 the Gravity Gun which everybody is in awe about, and that is an evolutionary weapon, all the remaining 
 arsenal is nicely balanced in a conventional way though. The machine gun may feel a bit weak, and 
 the Combine pulse rifle very powerful. The layout design, astounding and being varied, help to 
 enhance considerably the entire gameplay an average player should experience, without being drastically 
 too ''atmospheric & clogged'' like Doom 3. The game is a flashy equilibrium....
  
  Technically speaking of, Valve has reached the perfection we can reasonably expect from the technology 
 in 2004. Yes, both the graphics and sounds are smoothly rendered. The texturing remains top-notch, 
 even after 30+ hours of gameplay when a critic seeks all the little irritating details that normally 
 come closer to attention, it is still hard to find some. Though the overall look is unmatched at 
 the release, the game has been largely optimized to run great on mid-range machines too (  la 
 Unreal engine ) and that comes at the little cost of some blurred close-range textures, less than 
 Doom 3, but more than Far Cry ( Crytek's close-range meshes are still a reference ) . Ahh, and those 
 sounds.... what an incredible quality coding. Moreover, the music is a rich techno mix that is only 
 trigerred in selected action sequences. The feeling is extremely cinematic, immersive the say the 
 least. The little stuttering we can experience occasionnaly, hopefully fixed later on, is not enough 
 altering the balance to lower the score below 10 here.
  
  The single-player campaign is of good standard length ( 15-18 hours or so ) . Now they officially 
 released 2 deathmatch maps via Steam, both based on the single player and are frantic to play. 
 We can use the new weapons like the Gravity Gun, and the only complaint I may have here is the 
 overuse the bulk of gamers are making of it. There are too many debris in the maps we can use with; 
 they should lower the number of usable items by the Grav Gun in order to further enhance tactics 
 online. At least this HL2 multiplayer add-on is the welcomed addition people wanted, otherwise 
 we would have been ''satisfied'' with the good CounterStrike rehash....
  
  Mission accomplished Valve. Half-Life 2 is rejuvenating the FPS genre in a way. It may be conventional 
 at a surface; when digging more we begin to feel all the little nuances added here and there, not 
 only The Gravity thing. If you haven't played it yet, you're probably out of cash: ask it for a 
 gift then. It's a gem that cannot be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_pinkass
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2004 6:37 pm PT
Review:  First thing Id like to say is a yes, a big yes! A yes to say that it was worth the wait and that 
 even if it isn't the revolutionary game it was suposed to be, it's a great game with a lot of highs 
 and one major low. 
  The first thing you notice when you get out of the train in city 17 is that it is visually stunning. 
 It might not have the cool light effects that Doom 3 has, but the HD textures and the facial animations 
 look simply great. Another thing that I think hasn't been pointed enough from HL 2 is the level 
 design. It is brilliantly made. Every map has its surprises in the architecture and so and so. 
 The music and sound are great too. I love the fact that when alyx or any non playable character 
 talks to you, when you turn, the sound goes from a side to another of your speakers. It really 
 gets you into the game. 
  As I said, HL 2 doesnt' revolutionises anything. But it surely innovates in some ways. 
  From 
 now on, I cannot imagine a game without a gravity gun. I thought the bugbait was brilliant too!
 
  Now... let's go to the much less glorious part of the game. The game is too short! It may be packed 
 with CS: source and the newly released HL2: deathmatch, the game in itself doesn't last more than 
 15 hours if you play on normal!
  
  Conclusion: HL2 is a very solid game. Great graphics. Great sound. Classic but fantastic gameplay 
 (I forgot to mention the source engine that makes on incredible job) . A varied game. The only thing 
 missing is a lasting game. It's short. But it's the funnest short game. 
  Go buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup3ry0shi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2004 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, how long have we've been waiting? It's been six years, finally Half Life 2 is out. But is 
 it worth buying? Well, it turned out to be amazing!
  Well of course it is well worth it to buy it. You also get lots of other games for free. The game 
 is just crazy.
  
  The stunning graphics of the Source engine takes the game into a newer level. I rate the graphics 
 10/10. Only bad thing is sometimes the texture aren't that great when you look close up.
  
  The sound is amazing, everything sounds diffrent. Shoot it, throw it, all sounds amazing. 
  
 
  Well you got to admit Valve did a great job. The game is a long game considering it is a FPS shooter 
 game. It took me 21 hours to beat the game. Some of my friends took thirty hours. Well great job 
 Valve!
  
  9.9 -- Half-life 2 -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezmorized
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is easily the best computer game that came out this year. It has surpassed my expectations 
 and blew me away. You can't play this game without playing Half Life. That is where it begins. 
 You won't get the game if you don't start from the roots.
  
  Half Life 2 starts like many games do by getting the player familar with controls and the environment, 
 but even before that you see Gman. Now you haven't seen him since the last game, but like always 
 doesn't make sense to what he is talking about. During that first level you get to experience the 
 feeling of the city. City 17 is the city name and is being governed by Dr. Breen. You see him every 
 where as do you see combines. The combines are the police in the game and at this point detain 
 and keep order in the city.
  The city is very big and has been totally taken over by Dr. Breen. He uses brainwashed policemen 
 and huge striders (large alien monster) to keep it in order. But their is a resistance which is 
 being fueled by your former colegue Eli Vance and his daughter Aylx. They will help you get started 
 and you will later help fight the combines.
  
  At the very beginning you see the excellent textures of the people and especially the envrionment. 
 The city seems like a vast playground where you can explore to your hearts content. As you continue 
 in the game you get to experience the realism and mood just by looking at the very detailed characters 
 and surroundings. The enemies as well as your friends have astounding AI and make the game more 
 real and exciting.
  
  Now you are thinking, a great story and great graphics. What about the gameplay? The gameplay is 
 where you experience the fun in the game. What can be more fun than picking up someone by the leg 
 and throwing them at another person? I will tell you, nothing can be more fun. You get the crowbar, 
 which is Freeman's trademark, but later you are introduced to the gravity gun and BAM!! you forget 
 you even have the crowbar. Valve definetly came through with the weapon selection, which contributes 
 to good gameplay. Also something new to the game was vehicles. Their wasn't any in the first one, 
 but this made long levels go by faster. And trust me it was fun when you get to go four wheeling 
 in the beach.
  
  To wrap up, the sound really sets the mood of the gameplay. The music sometimes really gets you 
 groovin. Like the part when you are driving the airboat, you get some music going and you are rocking. 
 The guns and the general sounds were very realistic and contributed to the game, in a good way.
 
  
  Though the game seems perfect it is not of course. Their was some stuttering issue at launch but 
 have been resolved. The game is great, but sometimes too predictible. Like when Gordon was in the 
 portal and something went wrong and I guess when I played the game on normal it seemed to easy 
 killing the combines. Though the striders were tough and so were of the obstacles, it was a pretty 
 easy game, but it took time. IMO if the game would have been harder it would take you away from 
 the story and more on just getting past the level.
  
  I applaud Valve on their amazing game. I can't wait till HL3. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Been a while waiting, but Half Life 2 is without a doubt, a great single player game of 2004.
 
  The graphics are excellent, with revolutionary facial technology to emphasize the various emotions 
 of characters according to their situation, and spot on lip syncing. Characters are highly detailed 
 and are animated very well from the little baby head crabs to giant three story tall war machines 
 called 'Striders' (aka Tripod ripoff from war of the worlds 1890's) . The various terrain and environments 
 are also similary detailed with wreckage strewn about on beaches, or with grafitti and propaganda 
 posters plastered on walls, the graphics definitely create a believable world that has effectively 
 been ruined.
  
  The sound for most guns feels spot on some guns obviously sound more powerful than others and the 
 dialogue is also delivered in a very convincing way, due to the superb voice acting. The only problem 
 is that there just doesnt seem to be enough music, although what little their is definitely compliments 
 the gameplay specific moments, such as riding the buggy for the first time, or when you enter the 
 gameplay chapter 'sand traps'.
  
  The gameplay is Half Life 2's is ok, i say ok because very little is actually new in terms of gameplay, 
 its still the same style of gaming from the original half life, you solve some puzzls, you shoot 
 things its fun but certainly not the greatest and no real improvement in this area, saying that 
 its still pretty solid. You really get drawn into the story of Half Life 2 with its fantastic set 
 pieces and environments, and offcourse the genuinely exciting action throughout the game. Its standard 
 FPS stuff for alot of the time, but its extremely fun and satisfying with various enemies, because 
 not only do you have to deal with the 'combine' enemies (humans mainly) but also the different 
 alien species that have found a niche in the Earths ecosystem such as headcrabs (which are paraistes 
 that take over humans effectively acting like zombies) or ant lions (a big insect remminiscent 
 of Starship Troopers) . But like the original Half Life 2 features some more 'puzzle' bits such 
 as navigating a Ant Lion infested beach, or jumping over security beams but most of the time its 
 very simple puzzles like rip a plug outta of the wall but thankfully nothing so trite as find a 
 'yellow key'.
  
  You have a plethora of weapons at your disposal and you even get access to several vehicles during 
 the game which adds a nice dimension to the gameplay. The most unique weapon in any FPS to date 
 is featured in Hl2 and this is offcourse the 'Grav' gun, this makes excellent use of the Half Life 
 2 physics engine, by being ablet o grab various objects from far away (in some cases ripping them 
 out of walls -such as radiators) and being able to fling them at opponents.
  
  Half Life 2 originally did not ship with its own multiplayer segment, instead players got a updated 
 version of the succesful 'Counter Strike' which is a very realistic shooter with two teams, terrorists 
 and counter terrorists who get money each game depending on their ability and if they won the previous 
 round to buy more equipment. It can be fun but incredibly frustrating dying in the first 30 seconds 
 and waiting 3 minutes to respawn, or when you have obnoxious people playing.
  However recently the Half Life 2 deathmatch has been released, it obviously wasnt ready to be bundled 
 with the game originally but its being updated bit by bit, so if realistic multiplayer isnt your 
 cup of tea then just grab this.
  
  Half Life 2 is fairly long (20+ hours) , much longer than recent FPS and is definitely worth the 
 money for the singleplayer experience alone, the gameplay is extremely well done and the graphics 
 are very well polished with a revolutionary use of physics in a game. The various levels have a 
 great atmosphere to them, from the highly policed (beyond communist like control) 'City 17' to 
 the suspense filled 'Ravenholm'. You shall probably remember these levels for years to come, these 
 will be hard to surpass in the future.
  Multiplayer is a solid addition to go along with Half Life 2's singleplayer, but its really the 
 singleplayer experience you'll be after.
  
  The bad points I have for the game is that very very few questions are answered in the course of 
 the game, you can find subtle clues as to whats happened during your time away (posters, bill boards, 
 speeches) and the ending might seem underwhelming to many aswell. But the major complaint from 
 me is that the AI is pretty stupid, infact very stupid, you want good AI look at Halo and Halo 
 2 , enemies in this will throw grenadesthen walk ove rthem and stand and shoot you its pretty pathetic 
 stuff. Also the 'steam' installation requires you to have a internet connection which was fine 
 for me but it did not go smoothly with everyone else.
  And a minor point, more music! Half Life 2 does have the greatest singleplayer campaign in any 
 FPS of this year with fantastic graphics, sound, value and fun gameplay. The AI is a major point 
 its pretty awful even on higher level difficulties, but this game still warrants a purchase for 
 it is a genuinely fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bXirk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2004 2:31 am PT
Review:  The original Half-Life was one of the most amazing games ever created, it literally set the bar 
 for other first person shooters to mock over and over again, and they still do.
  
  Half-Life 2 is one of the most anticipated games of all time, and rightfully so, considering the 
 calibur of exellence it's predecessor displayed, and it lives up to the anticipation in every single 
 way imaginable, and in some ways, unimaginable.
  
  +Gameplay
  
  The game, honestly, plays like a dream. Controls are in classic Half-Life form, as expected. The 
 guns are wonderfully thought out, one of the notables being the "Gravity Gun". Movement is at perfect 
 pace, although you can speed it up using one of the many features that come with your suit by sprinting, 
 but it's hardly needed unless you're running away from one or many of the foes displayed in this 
 game. Movement features a realistic "Slide" when you stop, instead of a complete stop, which seems 
 a bit awkward at first, but becomes like riding a bike after the first level. Jumping doesn't require 
 the jump-duck as much as it did in the first one, if at all, and works rather well. The physics 
 brings a new level to gameplay, considering a lot of the short built in puzzles require you to 
 pick up items using your hands or the gravity gun and place them in certain places to reach the 
 next area. There are many situations where the physics come into play, but it's most apparent at 
 the beginning of the game. All in all, Half-Life 2 features some of the most remarkable gameplay 
 in quite some time.
  
  +Graphics
  
  The graphics in Half-Life 2 are absolutely, positively breath-taking. Valve's much anticipated 
 Source engine has created an eye-pleasing masterpeice. The atmospheres in the game literally suck 
 you in, and you feel as if you are there. You feel the eeriness of Ravenholm, or the feeling of 
 desertion and enclosure when you first enter City 17. The character models look beautiful, and 
 it's obvious the way that they feel, given the perfect display of emotion given in this game. No 
 game has ever gone as far as this game has to give you an emotional bond for the characters in 
 this game, and you almost begin to feel bad for some of them. The game can bring smiles, horror, 
 and sadness to your face in the blink of an eye. Half-Life 2's graphics are some of the best-to-date, 
 and arguably, the best graphics ever devised, and the Source engine is one of the most flexible, 
 useful engines ever created, much like Half-Life's engine.
  
  +Sound
  
  The sound can be described in one word: Unbelievable. The grenades sound so good and full of depth 
 on a system with some bass. The character voices are played so well, and show just the right amount 
 of emotion at the right time. Some of the sounds of Half-Life 2 fill you with awe and give you 
 a feeling of accomplishment, for example, killing your first Strider.
  The NPC's in the game hollering at you, though a bit repetitive, give you whatever feeling they 
 set out to give you. If it wants you to feel pressured, you feel pressured. There's nothing like 
 the sound of a fallen strider, or the sound of a zombie caught on fire - it's almost as if the 
 human deep down inside of it was crying out in pain. The music in the game is also interesting, 
 featuring many of Valve's techno songs, which add the adrenaline rush you receive, and fits in 
 perfectly.
  
  +Value
  
  The game's decently long, but it's quite short compared to it's predecessor. The game is long enough 
 that you aren't tearing your hair out simply because you want to reach the end, but it's short 
 enough that some may be dissapointed. The game's value and longevity is increased by the mods Half 
 Life 2 Death Match, and CounterStrike: Source; who are two very worthy mods using the Source engine. 
 Both of these games and the single player combined should keep you glued to the game for a month 
 or longer, and some even years, and due to this, and the massive amount of mods that are on the 
 way, it easily earns top honours in the Value category.
  
  +Tilt
  
  In all honesty, I can say this is one of the best games I have ever had the chance to play. It 
 is, in every aspect, near perfect. I experienced no issues with this game what so ever, but I could 
 be considered lucky. There isn't one second in this game where I became edgy or bored, or could 
 relax, because the game never had any aspect that was dragged on, and none of the chapters were 
 long enough that things grew mediocre. For the simple fact that I enjoyed this game more than any 
 other in an extremely long time, it receives top honours as well.
  
  --
  
  +Final Thoughts:
  
  Half-Life 2 is not a game that should be missed. If you miss this game 
 by any chance, you are a sad individual, for you have not experienced one of the most amazingly 
 entertaining games ever devised.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonoDog
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2004 9:54 pm PT
Review:  No better than HalfLife I don't know what I was waiting on. The story line had possibilities but 
 was left flat. Steam is required who needs it. Talk about Big Brother syndromes. Don't waste you 
 money you be just as hppy with HalfLife. They have Turned my $3000 PC into an XBox way to go suckers! 
 REally I don't know here they are going with this except an unreasonable fear that someone will 
 steal their software and REQUIREING MY home address to register, hell they even force you to register. 
 Personnaly I really enjoy single player fraggin' but they make it a pain. IT plays just fine on 
 my PC 3.2 Ghz with 2 Gig of RAM. But if I wanted the restrictions and registration requirements 
 I ould have benn better off buying acouple of shoot em ups for my xboxes.
  
  STEAM SUCKS, HL2 is a major let down they have achieved the coporate buy off won't be long till 
 the follow restrictive falt heads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koukoo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2004 7:53 pm PT
Review:  If the first Half-Life, more of you are years does, fixed the pegs for the First-Person-Shooter 
 modern, throwing the bases that planned to the greater part of the titles of this last glory 
 of to follow a more film philosophy and of mould Holliwoodiano, but however characterized dallvery 
 complex game of mechanic of utilization how much tested and immediate, therefore usufruibili a 
 lot from the gambler HardCore thatI capitulate Valves is itself mail an as much objective ambitious: 
 that of (ri) to define new parameters and of to stretch the horizons to one of the most appreciated 
 son-in-laws and played to the world. There they succeeded. Half-Life 2 is a destroying game, by 
 surprise fullness, details, small large chicche. A practically impossible title to describe but 
 above all to analyze in every its individual part, also after to have written 20.000 characters. 
 Certainty, the world of game, for how much immense, sometimes should present of the squeezed and 
 troublesome necks of bottle: but we retain it a badly necessary one and difficult ovviabile, quantomeno 
 speaking simply always of usable FPS a lot from the eighteen-year-old one how much from the fifty-year-old 
 one. Someone other then, will be able to have to repeat on the scarcity of a classic formal procedure 
 DeathMatch in mutiplayer, and yet "Counter Strike: Source" exists actual for this. Besides to think 
 sessions of multiplayer (even if I cooperated) in the world of the Town 17 would have had little 
 sense... and Half-Life 2 needs not some outcome too easy subterfuge of the multiplayer to amuse 
 the gambler and to make them enjoy all that quite of God that offers him, Half-Life 2 was thought 
 and realized with the clear purpose to offer lindividual experience gambler. For a new point of 
 reference in the multiplayer should await still an I annex and to enjoy us lnow next Team Fortress 
 2. Well, that I devote round round to two figures it wants to symbolize lexcellence, not the perfection. 
 The just prize to who knew not to disappoint us and to open the road to a new way to conceive the 
 interactive fun in first person. It is not perfect, it did not be able to be it. However it is 
 distinguished and it distinguishes. 10 serves actual to this. Valves and Half-Life 2 I am a step 
 more upwards of everything. The other now they should chase. However, for favor, done not seek 
 comparisons with the first chapter. Certain events - unfortunately - captain an alone time in the 
 life.. Benefit: Technically irreprehensible. Teaching Level design. Innovation, Will Vary and longevity 
 to the greatest levels. It opens new horizons to the individual video games gambler. Against: is 
 necessary "to satisfy itself" of CS: Source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItchyBoots
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2004 1:10 am PT
Review:  Woo Hoo yeah! Every othe minute I am screaming, "Half-Life 2 kicks ass!!" This is hands down, no 
 questions asked the best game I have ever played in my life. The gameplay has sooo much variety 
 and depth, and the attention to detail, awesome sound and graphics really puts you in the game. 
 Somethings wron with my computer and it has been running anything very well lately, so I havent 
 even gotten the full effect of the game and it still blows me away!
  
  I want to tell you everything that happens in this game to share my enthusiasim, but that would 
 ruin it. So I am going to tell you play the game and find out its goodness for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neosword
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2004 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life debuted in 1998 and redefined action gaming. Half-Life 2 isn't so much of a revolutionary 
 game than it is just plain great. It starts you off being talked to by the GMan and you are teleported 
 into City 17. You walk the streets and people react to your presence in different ways. The facial 
 expressions are good enough for you to be able to tell what a person thinks of you just by looking 
 at them. All the other graphics are incredible too. You are reintroduced to some of your old Black 
 Mesa friends and your journey is underway. You're given your crowbar and pushed right into some 
 combat. You soon gain a pistol and while it's not the most powerful weapon, it can sure get the 
 job done. One of the first things you'll notice is that enemies are pretty strong, even on the 
 lower diffiulty levels, and take two head shots before going down. And enemies are not in short 
 supply either. You'll be fighting through roughly 100+ enemies in the first two real levels of 
 the game. You work through the underground railroad and are cleverly introduced to new enemies 
 along the way. It will be awhile before you get some of the game's more fun and powerful weapons, 
 but when you do they're a blast (no pun intended) . Especially the Gravity gun which can pick up 
 pretty much anything you see laying aroung and hurl them at enemies. The game also introduces vehicles 
 which can he hard to control at first, but are really fun once you get used to them. The story 
 progresses pretty well once you get through the first few hours and is excellent from then on. 
 This game not only comes with Half-Life 2 which is great by itself, but also with Counterstrike: 
 Source. Source is basically a remake of the original counterstrike with the new grahpics engine 
 which makes it look just beautiful. It feels alot like Rainbow Six, but with a few qwirks. You 
 either play as the terrorists or the counter terrorists. Each team has their own objective. The 
 terrorists have to defend the bomb they've planted and the counter terrorists have to defuse it. 
 Most of the time this boils down to obliterating the other team which results in instant victory. 
 Not long ago, Half-Life Deathmatch was introduced. I'm going to let you play that for yourself, 
 but I will tell you it's just icing on the cake when put in with the rest of the package. If you 
 are still sitting here reading this, you are wasting valuble time that could be spent playing the 
 magnificant game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: W04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning of 2004, I would have to say my two favorite games of all time were Doom and HL. 
 Now, after completing HL2, I have to be blunt and say I was mildly disappointed. Below is a list 
 of negatives:
  
  - The Sea looks terrible from a distance -- just like a flat blue mat. Why couldn't Valve match, 
 or improve upon, Farcry's water technology?
  - The A. I. is truly neanderthal (you will be dumbfounded at the stupidity of most enemies) . This 
 was a constant distraction.
  - The game fails at its attempt to implement a "Freedom Fighters" type recruitment system. Your 
 counterparts constantly get in your way, and are more annoying than anything. This occurred time 
 and time again.
  - The storyline is incongruous, and the ending left much unanswered.
  - The graphics are strong, but certainly nothing truly noteworthy.
  - The physics of this game 
 get old after about two hours -- very redundant.
  
  Overall, I think GS was generous with a score of 9.2. I would assign a value of 8.5 or so.
  
 
  It was a solid game, but nothing special. Just check the PC forums -- no one ever raved about this 
 game, because deep-down even the HL fanboys knew it wasn't very good. Not to mention Valve cut 
 the majority of the content they showed at E3 right out of the game. We waited five years for THIS?! 
 Come on, Valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sealteamjonny
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2004 3:18 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! I can't believe that some people are giving Valve crap about the game, or 
 that Gamespot only gave it a 9.2. It deserves better. The game gets everything right. There was 
 not a single moment when I was frustrated. The game is also pretty realistic. It is almost impossible 
 to stay undamaged, but health packs are strewn at generous intervals so that you're constantly 
 healing yourself. On the flipside, it's not so hard that you'll find yourself constantly reloading 
 like in many first-person shooters.
  The end of the game is great, although the conclusion of the story leaves a little to be asked 
 for... but we all knew that Half-Life 3 would come eventually! The characters in the game were 
 very realistic... I actually cared about the main characters. The story was great too. Don't get 
 me started about the vehicle sequences, I could go on for hours about how amazing and fresh these 
 were. The puzzles were great too, while not being too hard. An AMAZING game overall, I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone... GO BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SteelEagle-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2004 1:44 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is one of the most remarkable games I have every played in my life (however short its 
 been) . Since I'm just fifteen you may not take note of my review ,but I urge you to hear me out, 
 ill try to do my best. This game has taken many hours of my life out of the last month, and for 
 good reason. The graphics in Half-Life 2 are very very impressive (if you have the hardware to 
 run it) . However short this game is its gameplay is very replayable and enjoyable with new tactics 
 to be used and secrets to be found. The extensive detail in this game is almost scary and the sounds 
 of things jumping out at you, around corners, will scare you to no end. 
  On the negative side there are a couple things: First off, loading times for people without the 
 best computer can have you waiting for a while. Secondly, Half-Life 2 Death Match has quite a few 
 bugs and people complain way too much (new patches will come out and fix this) . 
  Overall I would strongly recommend spending your $55 dollars on this game and I hope my review 
 was worth reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cueclub
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2004 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is my first time playing "half life" "games", and i gotta say that HL2 is the best and 
 i think i started with the right foot in "half life games". I can see no defects.... oh.... maybe 
 one... steam... err... everytime we start the game and/or the pc we got to "see" steam. i'm speechless 
 when i try to talk about the game, that engine is great! better than the CryEngine, in my opinion 
 a 9.2 is not enough for this game, at least a 9.5 would be reasonable. And hl2 is just half of 
 my conversation, i'm new at counter strike too, and i'm loving it, it's great to play with friends 
 and/ or people we don't know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2004 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Over the years of development, Half Life 2 was constantly being over hyped by devoted fans of the 
 first game. While a part of that community grew tired of the delays, others eagerly awaited what 
 they thought would be the greatest game ever. In the end, HL2 turned out to be a great game, perhaps 
 one of the best, but not perfect.
  
  Half Life 2 takes place some years after the first game. After the opening of the teleportation 
 portal in the first Half Life game, aliens known as the Combine invaded Earth, and are in control 
 of it when HL2 begins. At the beginning of Half Life 2, Gordon Freeman, the player controlled character, 
 is dropped into a train heading to City 17 by the "G-Man" - a mysterious man in a suit who somehow 
 managed to trap Gordon in nothingness at the end of Half Life 1. City 17 is one of the last remaining 
 urban centers on Earth, controlled by a highly repressive dictatorship of Combine-supported Dr. 
 Breen, who was Gordon's boss back at Black Mesa, when the teleportation portal was open.
  
  The story in Half Life 2 is told entirely from the first person perspective of Gordon Freeman. 
 There is no cutscenes, and we never even find out what Freeman really looks like. This way of storytelling, 
 combined with the lifelike facial expressions of NPCs in the game, and the level design of the 
 City 17, and other areas that Gordon visit provide a high level of immersion and atmosphere. Though 
 HL2 is immersive, the story isn't all that good. It seems that the whole mysteriousness to it was 
 overdone - at the end of HL2 there are more questions to be asked than at the beginning, and throughout 
 the game very few questions are answered.
  
  Besides telling the story, Half Life 2 also features a lot of entertainment in its action parts. 
 Whether Gordon is fighting Combine soldiers, or dodging leaping headcrabs, the gameplay is very 
 fun. Half Life 2 is not very innovative in this department, since it's very much like every other 
 FPS game out there that features a lot of scripted sequences and good AI. However, besides those 
 usual elements, Valve, the developers of HL2 managed to integrate something less common, although 
 not entirely new into the game - physics. Every object in HL2 behaves believably lifelike. Toilets 
 and sinks feel heavier than soda cans, and behave differently when tossed around. Unlike in most 
 of other games featuring some sort of a physics engine, physics in Half Life 2 directly affect 
 gameplay, through an incredibly fun weapon called the gravity gun. As the name suggests, the gun 
 creates gravity. It allows the player to pull various objects towards him, and then either drop 
 them, or throw them with great force. This great force can be used to throw objects such as filing 
 cabinets or explosive barrels at enemies to kill them. This interesting innovation adds to the 
 already fun action of Half Life 2.
  
  Enemies in Half Life 2 behave quite smartly, although the AI isn't amazing. They will take cover, 
 and they won't just stand in place and wait to die, but enemies do that in most of current games. 
 In some parts of HL2, the player will also play in cooperation with a small squad of computer controlled 
 characters. While they are about as smart as the enemy, they can also be annoying in small spaces 
 and doorways where they tend to block the player's path.
  
  Graphics are one part of Half Life 2 that actually lived up to all the expectations. The textures 
 are highly detailed, character models look real, and water reflections are very realistic. Overall, 
 environments in Half Life 2 look very real, both indoors, and outdoors, thanks to the great Source 
 engine.
  
  The graphics are accompanies by good sounds. Those who played the original Half Life will instantly 
 recognize the familiar sounds that Gordon's HEV suit makes when it recharges, takes damage, etc. 
 However, not all sounds are recycled, and there are many sounds that greatly increase the immersivness 
 of the game, such as sirens, automatic radio broadcasts that activate if you kill a Civil Protection 
 officer, or loudspeaker announcements about the most dangerous public enemy - Gordon Freeman.
 
  
  The official multiplayer component is the Counterstrike: Source, although there's also a Half Life 
 2 Deathmatch mod, released by Valve after the game was released. Counterstrike Source is basically 
 the old CS - a semi-realistic terrorist vs. counterterrorist action game - on the new Source engine. 
 CS is one of the most popular online games ever, and it has almost as many fans as there's people 
 who dislike it. CS is certainly a very well done game, however it just doesn't appeal to everyone. 
 CS: S does not use physics in gameplay as much as HL2 does, however it uses them more for visual 
 purposes - personal computer components flying around when hit by gunfire. HL2DM, however, uses 
 physics as much as HL2 - since it's basically HL2 online. While the weapons in HL2 are not very 
 balanced, there's nothing quite as satisfying as killing someone by hitting them in the head with 
 a fast moving toilet, which is only possible in HL2DM. While CS: S is the more serious, and competitive 
 game, HL2DM is something to play, just for fun, and a couple of laughs.
  
  Much like the original Half Life, HL2 is very moddable. There are hundreds of mods in development 
 for the Source engine. Some of them might turn out to be more fun than the stock MP options of 
 HL2, much like CS turned out to be more fun that the original multiplayer component of Half Life.
 
  
  Half Life 2 turned out to be a very good game. Although it might not be the absolutely awesome 
 game that it was predicted to be, it is still very fun. It has some faults, such as the fact that 
 the game can be beaten in less than 20 hours, but it is surely one of the best games of the year.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zionid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2004 11:24 pm PT
Review:  The game starts and it's all wooooo... Nice! The gameplay is smooth, the controls are all just 
 the same, learning curve near zero. The game plods on. Where do you have to walk through? All pretty 
 linear gameplay. Not many new features. The game just kind of happens. 
  
  Half Life (#1) was really a cool, good, new kind of game. Half Life 2 is a cool, not too good, 
 old kind of game. The graphics are better, the story is better, but it's not like the old game. 
 
  
  Something is kind of missing. The loading times between game sections are a bit tedious and they 
 take a lot of flow out of the gameplay. 
  
  What a pitty, I was looking forward to this new version. Hope I can get part of my cash back by 
 selling it to somebody.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianzkul
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 8, 2004 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is a fun game. There's no doubt about that. However there are a good handfull of problems 
 to go along with the fun and visecral action that the game supplies. You start out the game much 
 in the same fashion as you start out the original Half Life, in that the game gives you 15-30 minutes 
 (depending on how you take it all in) to just walk around and get a feel for the enviroment and 
 the story. The characters and such animate in a believable way, and the lip synch is pretty good, 
 but I still couldn't find myself getting attached to any specific characters in the game.
  
  The action in this game is very fun to play, but the problem is that the action occurs in very 
 short spurts. This means that even what are supposed to be major battles in the game seem more 
 like incredibly minor skirmishes. The battles aren't long enough or challenging enough to be very 
 satisfying at all. This even holds true for the very end of the game.
  
  When you are in the middle of the action however, it truly is a beautiful thing. It's very fun 
 to play, the weapons are all different and effective (and differently effective) . There are a couple 
 of points in the game where I found myself playing through a section way more than I should have 
 had to, especially inside the prison where you have to set up a few underpowered turrets and hold 
 off wave after wave of combine soldier.
  
  The physics in the game supply you with pretty much all of the puzzles. In a way though, the physics 
 come off as a gimmick more than a legitamite playing tool. After the Ravenholme level, which for 
 the most part doesn't supply you with anything other than things to throw with the gun, the physics 
 gun just becomes more of a plaything. And a few of the physics puzzles don't make any sense. There's 
 one where you have to drag bouyant barrels filled with air about 10-15 feet underwater, and this 
 is done with absolutely no problem. You'd think there would be a little resistance. I for one gave 
 the physics system too much credit, and it wasn't for at least a half hour I realized how easy 
 it is to drag those babies under.
  
  The graphics are for the most part great. It's really a game about "the little details" in that 
 you are most amazing by accurate reflections in the water, or the way you can see the sunlight 
 trace into the room from a few new holes you introduced. But, at least for me, there are some serious 
 problems. I'm running a Radeon 9600 (the king of incompatibilty) , and whenever I try to run the 
 game on high mode, which my computer can handle, half of the texutres are broken. Imagine a floor 
 that looks more like a dancing rainbow, and you have the idea. It gets even worse later in the 
 game, where the dancing rainbow affects character models. It really takes away from the whole experience.
 
  
  Another huge problem is the loading times in this game. They are brutal. Expect to wait 2-3 minutes 
 to get to the main menu, regardless of whatever patch they made to fix it.
  
  The sound is good, and the voice acting is solid. The music works for the most part, it really 
 helps the mood of whatever particular part you are playing. The multiplayer is Counter-Strike. 
 If you need me to describe that, then you are severely out of the loop. Also new is Half Life 2 
 Deathmatch, which can be fun when the pings around around 900 (which they seem to rocket to a lot) .
 
  
  The worst part of the game has to be the story. It seems to entirely rushed, and a lot of the gameplay 
 begins to write a different story that isn't touched upon at all. And as for the final battle, 
 it's just you shooting orbs at another, larger orb. That's all. You could phone in the final battle. 
 Also all of the questions from the original Half Life is piled onto the questions stemming from 
 this Half Life. NOTHING IS ANSWERED. I felt bamboozled in a way when I was done with the game. 
 The ending is so wholly unsatisfying that it made me wish I had never shelled out so much money 
 to play.
  
  Problems aside, the game is fun (when there's action) , looks great (when the graphics aren't broken) , 
 and leaves a large lasting impression (mostly anger) . The reason it gets a great score though is 
 mainly because it is crazy fun to play, and whenever you're bored you can just jump right back 
 into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rentfn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2004 5:53 am PT
Review:  Was a little short but other than that i loved every second. The gravity gun was a dream come true. 
 I can not believe how much time was spent working on the engine. it was amazing. i hope more games 
 try to be a realistic as this. The best part was driving the riverboat. i can replay that level 
 tons of times. I like being able to pick up the Saw blades and throwing them at the zombies. I 
 still hate headcrabs and now they have black death headcrabs. Did not like the guy who threw them 
 at everyone. that kinda sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shelbs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2004 1:05 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 has been long awaited. The real question is... has the wait been worth it? Well thats 
 for you to decide but if it were my choice. Half Life 2 is the best game ever made.
  
  Theres really not much to say because alot of people already know about everything in Half Life 
 2.
  
  One reason I really thing this game is great... is because of the mod community. Look at Half Life 
 it has so many mods and some that even get sold in stores. Now take good old Half Life gameplay 
 and mix that with GREAT graphics and INSANE physics which equals = GREATEST GAME EVER!
  
  So yes Half Life 2 has been worth the wait. Go buy it right now wether your computer specs suck 
 or not! It runs great on anything!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zixinus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 7, 2004 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Before I start, I want to give a couple of masseges to sertain groups or people:
  -quicksave haters: Nobody forces you to use quick save. Half-Life 2 has a good auto-save system.
 
  -Halo fans: I DO NOT KNOW if Halo 2 and HL2 can be compered. I do not own an xbox so I don't know. 
 If Halo 2 goed to PC too maybe. I liked Halo 1, but I won't buy an xbox or a any other new hardware 
 just for one game. I have quite a small account.
  -I HAVE bad spelling. I'm a foregin 14 boy who is happy if he gets a C on his grammer.
  
  I 
 have three basic things at reviewing:
  1. Finish the game what you review.
  2. Do not try to compere other games to eachother. Every game trys to be original. Respect that.
 
  3. There is no program thats perpect. Let it be a calculator program or a complex thing like a 
 game. A few bugs rarely ruins gameplay.
  
  Steam: Once connected to the internet, my comp updated steam without a problem. I had a steam account, 
 but I totally forgot my password. But I recived several e-mails telling it so I whas OK. I entered 
 my CD-KEY without a problem, I whas a bit nerveous but it activated HL2 without a problem. I olso 
 downloaded the source SDK, so it took a while. But once activated it ran fine. No problem at all. 
 But still I think this form of copy protection is barely better then cd protection, since it can 
 acivate an non-existing account. Maybe Valve sould fully debug steam ( a few people from microsoft 
 gone to Valve, that miht explain a bunch of things) FIRST, and do a couple of mirror servers. I 
 mean its hard to do a game, but a small client like steam? Please. I olso hear that quite a bunch 
 of people had problems with connecting steam.
  
  OK so lets start.
  
  Grapics:
  When I look at the grapics I watch both the effects and detail. A box may look good, but if you 
 cannot use it for nothing and its absulutly the same in the entire game, that may be boreing. Charecters 
 are very well detailed (they used real faces) , reflects emucions wich I rarely seen in most games. 
 Animacions are great, smooth and life like. So you can see people typing, fixing and so on. The 
 terrain is beautiful, I never saw so great grapics since Beyond Good and Evil. They used the pixel 
 shader technology quite well. Shadows are simple but good. Detail sometimes repeats itself but 
 its OK. Effects are great. Water looks like water, if you shoot into it a splash is viewable. Glass 
 effects is complate.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is like, you need to do something, and once you got used to it you will have to do something 
 else. In other words it is not monoton. You will have a choice of course. Each weapon is different, 
 so there not repeating themself. I loved the magnum but it had barely ammo. In one part you need 
 to defend yourself, in an other you must not step on the sand (ala Dune) . So you will have to break 
 your head. in one point you will get a very new weapon. The Zero Point Manipulator Gun (if I remember 
 it right) , were you can push objects towards you and trow them. You can build a barricade in an 
 instence but you can torne one apart. Olso theres ya old shutgun, machine gun, granade and rocket 
 luancher.
  The gravity gun rocks.
  
  Story:
  Alot of black spots are in the story but here goas:
  In HL1 you were a a researcher that whas 
 trained to handle dangerus (like radioactive) materials. But one of the experements gone wrong, 
 teribly wrong, something happend that nobody tought would happen: you open a portal to an other 
 world. When you wake up, you find out that the hole base is liveing hell. You pick up a crowbar 
 to fight the monsters you find and strange zombies. When you finally meet with soldiers they wanna 
 kill you. You meet with even more people who want to kill you. And stronger and stronger monsters. 
 You will decide that the only opcion is to close the portal. But on the other side theres something 
 that keeps it open. You go in... After a rampage over the base you do an other at the place called 
 Xen. You finally kill the person that keeps the portal open. You are teleported several times while 
 talking to a man. He gives you choice of either finging the hole enemy force in a minuate or join 
 him as an employe. HL2 contiues as you joined, and you wake to find a world of hell and opressed.
 
  
  Battle system:
  You can use stealth tactics as well as commando tactics. As mentioned before, you can make a barricade 
 quite fast. Damn it, its a simple but well done FPS. Enemies are trying to take cover and uses 
 granades sometimes. Zombies are dume as hell, but they try to surrond you. So you can do your "kill 
 kill kill" routine. Sometimes (rarely) you can use vehicles and stuff. Stick to cover and youl 
 be OK.
  
  Sound: I never really bothered with the sound, since I don't had a sound card for a time. The music 
 is good, voice acting is fine, weapon sound are fine but some are quite. I hadn't have any problems, 
 even thou that I have a soundblaster 5.1.
  
  Value: HL2 is worth buying, since you not just get a very good game, but you will have a base game 
 that will be moded several times. There are several mods, that Valve supports more or less. The 
 SDK is out, so keep an eye out. And the game has a small prestise :D
  
  Reviewers tilt: what is this?
  
  System: The game has a problem, loads too much, thats the 
 only thing that stopes me to play the game out again.
  
  Overall: The game is very well done. Very fun to play. I reccomend it. If you can ignore Valve's 
 steam ideas you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teuvan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2004 12:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was not sure what to expect. I had never played the original, but 
 had heard that it was very good. As soon as I first started playing I was truly amazed. The graphics 
 are stunning, the story is interesting and open to theory, the sound and music are surprisingly 
 good, and most importantly the gameplay is incredible.
  
  You play as Gordon Freeman, the scientist turned hero from the previous game. The game starts out 
 in an area called "City 17" which you will become familiar with early in the game. As soon as you 
 start out you will notice how incredible the graphics and the physics are. You can throw bottles 
 at guards, or just stack crates to make steps. Most of the items in the game you can pick up to 
 move or throw. There is a great selection of powerful and unique weapons in the game as well, including 
 the gravity gun which makes good use of the physics engine.
  
  The gameplay is excellent and just about every level is different. There are many unique surprises 
 and situations in the game, all of which require their own solution. The story is extremely interesting 
 as well, you will have to dig around a little bit to find out everything though. Unlike in most 
 games, the story in this is not layed out for you. It is also open to theory in many parts. Playing 
 through the game once should take about 20 hours, but that depends on your skill and what difficulty 
 you are playing it on.
  
  As for multiplayer, you have two choices. Counterstrike: Source, the new and improved version of 
 Counterstrike. Or Half-Life 2: Deathmatch which you can download for free from steam once you have 
 the game. Counterstrike: Source is the re-make of Counterstrike with the source engine. It includes 
 improved graphics, physics, along with a few new features. Half-Life 2: Deathmatch uses the weapons 
 from Half-Life 2 as well as maps and skins based off of it and is basically a re-make of Deathmatch 
 Classic.
  
  Overall, this is a truly incredible game. The gamplay, story, graphics, sound, multiplayer, everything 
 is just right. If you have any remote interest in shooters then there is nothing that I would recommend 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psgetti
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2004 8:43 am PT
Review:  I love first-person shooters. Who doesn't? I'm finding, however, that the whole genre is getting 
 a little tired. I've stormed the beaches of Normandy, chainsawed my fair share of aliens, and earned 
 the dubious distinction of becoming a Flack Monkey. I just can't help but notice, that when it's 
 all said and done, they're all still just a first-person shooter: Shoot first and save often. Half 
 Life 2 is still just a first person shooter BUT it's not easy to tell once you start playing. 
 
  
  I was very reluctant to purchase HL2. Mainly, because I didn't think it would run well on my computer, 
 but also because I didn't want to fork over $55 only to be left feeling empty, indifferent, AND 
 sleeping on the couch (my better half DOES NOT share my affinity of gaming) . In fact, I would not 
 have bought it at all had I not drank a six-pack of Fat Tire with my wallet close by one night 
 while surfing. For those who don't know, you can download a copy of HL2 directly from Valve's STEAM 
 website. It's a bit cheaper than a store-bought copy and much easier to sneak past the wife. No 
 box, no couch, I always say. Also, despite some random grumblings on the web, I have had absolutely 
 no issues with my copy. In fact, I hope more games are released as downloads in the future. 
  
  Rather than blathering on in long paragraphs about each little detail of the game, I've captured 
 just a few highlights:
  
  Controls: Great. The controls are familiar and easily customizable. I did stumble a few times with 
 weapons switching, but was easily remedied with some new mouse button assignments.
  
  Story: Fair. It's the same old story: You're playing the part of a guy who, with 400 lbs of weapons 
 hidden in your pocket, decides to take on the evil-loving, money-hoarding villian who apparently 
 only hires henchmen that have an IQ less that 50. Even with that said, the story was just compelling 
 enough to keep the game moving at a fairly decent pace. The acting was actually bearable and dare 
 I say, good. It helps when you have veteran actors lend their voices to the story. Good job, Benson 
 and Chappy!!! I was a tad disappointed with the ending but the story was solid enough that it didn't 
 detract too much from the entire experience.
  
  Graphics: Awesome. Simply put. The level of detail that was incorporated into this game would make 
 one think that only a high-end machine could run it. From the graffiti on the walls to the vehicles 
 that you drive, I found each scene to be more capativating that the one before it. I spent more 
 time as a sightseer than as a despotic overthrower. I was very surprised to find that HL2 played 
 flawlessly on my computer. I have an AMD XP 3200+, Radeon 9600 and a gig of ram. The game ran fluid 
 with all options set to high with the exception of a battle or two but even then, the lag was tolerable. 
 I have yet to see it run on a higher-end machine, but I'm betting that the difference is negligible. 
 
  
  Sound: Great. In my opinion, this is one of the most important aspects of any game. You can have 
 good graphics, but without sound, it's just a picture. The ambient sounds in this game were beautifully 
 mastered without being overbearing or repetitious while adding credibility to the scenery.
  
  Overall: Great!! For the first time in a long time, I completed a game with a sense of fullfillment. 
 The complete package was very impressive and very addictive. The story could have been a little 
 more cutting edge, but that's a minor detail when compared to the overall game. They hype was right. 
 This game just rocks!!
  Was it worth $50? Heck no. No game is. But it was definately worth sleeping on the couch for.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harring11
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2004 6:15 am PT
Review:  Not too much more to say - EXCELLENT game!
  
  Great graphics, sound, awesome FPS.
  
  Worth the wait? Only if the expansion packs come MUCH MUCH more quickly!
  
  The end is a bit 
 too easy - but excellent nonetheless... I'll probaby play it again on the hard setting.
  
  The FREE MAN Rocks! Definitely a Hardware needing program though - if you've got the goods there's 
 nothing like it. PLUS, the LCD setting works awesome if you have an LCD monitor.
  
  I haven't experimented with the online stuff too much, but from what I hear it's not too bad either!! 
 
  
  Either way it's the best thing out so far this holiday season!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2004 3:03 am PT
Review:  (Reviewed using a 1.6 GHz Mobile Pentium 4, 512 MB RAM, ATI Mobility Radeon 9800 w/256MB memory, 
 2 channel sound)
  
  OVERALL: 9.0
  
  Fun, addictive, immersive: adjectives that aptly describe Half-Life 2. Valve has created a near-masterpiece 
 of an FPS game. 
  
  Basically, you play as Gordon Freeman, a man of no words, who assists a group of humans fight off 
 an oppressive yoke impressed upon them by the Combine, a joint human-alien government.
  
  Following along a road paved by Far Cry, Half-Life 2 is basically a non-stop tour of duty through 
 its environment. There are no shifting scenes, and wherever there is a level change, you start 
 at the very point you left off from the previous level. This allows the player to have a constant 
 experience, maintains the suspension of disbelief, and allows the game to be much more immersive 
 than many other games.
  
  The game itself can be very exciting and intense at times, and creepy and jarring at others. There 
 are some surprising moments that will jars the player. A game with less atmosphere would not have 
 the ability to startle the player as Half-Life 2 does. 
  
  One of the most remarkable things about Half-Life 2 is that almost every object not nailed down 
 can be moved. This creates a much more believable game world where not every object nailed down 
 can be battered about realistically. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  
  Half-Life 2, thankfully, does not use a ridiculous amount of keyboard controls to move Gordon through 
 the game world. A handful of keypresses summarizes all that the protagonist needs to do to effectively 
 wage a one-man war against the forces of the Combine. Weapons are hard to come by. The early stages 
 of the game, you are completely weaponless, and must rely on your feet and wits to survive. Due 
 your relative lack of lethality early in the game, you must make smarter tactical decisions and 
 think on the fly to survive at the harder difficulty settings.
  
  While the game is immersive, and the gameworld behaves as one would expect in real life, the AI 
 can be incredibly dumb. More than once, a Combine soldier just sat there, waiting to be picked 
 off. Only during scripted actions does the AI seem to earn the name Artificial Intelligence.
  
  The realistic physics engine also allows for some interesting puzzle-solving during the game. 
 Rather than being horribly annoying, the puzzle-solving is better orchestrated, and much better 
 done than in other FPS games. Since the world behaves as one would expect, and almost every object 
 can be moved, the puzzles can be logically solved. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  
  City seventeen, where the game takes place, is beautifully rendered. The humanoid enemies are very 
 well realized, but some of the aliens look goofy. All the animations ran smoothly, and the faces 
 of the NPCs you run into are the best ever realized in a PC game. There are some clipping problems: 
 some dead enemies fall halfway through closed doors, and at one time Gordon was able to jump off 
 the game world, exposing the model of City 17 unwinding in the distance as he floated downward 
 in an abyss of background art. 
  
  Minor problems aside, the fire and bullet effects are very well done, the water effects are fabulous, 
 and the entire city is very well drawn. The textures are all well detailed and run very smooth. 
 There is no framerate slowdown, even with many enemies approaching in some of the expansive outdoor 
 areas.
  
  SOUND: 10
  
  The best sound ever put forth in a PC game. The constant Big-Brother female voice dispatching the 
 Citizen Patrol troops to your location in a fashion reminiscent of the Main Force Patrol dispatcher 
 in Mad Max, the radio effects, the voice acting, and the sound effects are all top notch. The weapons, 
 in particular sound great. With varied voices and phrases, the sound definitely elevates Half-Life 
 2 from being a game to being an experience.
  
  Many times, games with great graphics miss the boat on sound. This prevents the player from truly 
 getting lost in the environment and creating a game to be experienced rather than played. Half-Life 
 2 does not follow along that path. City 17 feels so real in no small part because of the sound.
 
  
  VALUE: 8
  
  $55? Ouch.
  
  REVIEWERS TILT: 9
  
  While one of the best FPS to ever come along, minor issues, a high price tag, and having difficulties 
 with the Steam service prevents a perfect score. (i. e. having to assign a static IP to my portable 
 PC and port-forward a host of UDP and TCP ports to play a single-player game is a pain in the tuckus 
 that one should not have to endure just to prevent piracy.) Nevertheless, Half-Life 2 is addictive 
 and fun, and bumps off Unreal Tournament 2004 as my preferred shooter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dstark9
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 6, 2004 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I am really surprised this game gets high reviews. The gameplay I thought was very straightforward 
 and rather boring. I have both Far Cry and Doom 3 and I think both those games are much better. 
 The storyline in this game was pretty drab and reminded me of a bad 80's sci-fi movie. Most of 
 the characters especially Barney had a really stupid comical appeal to them. The price of this 
 game is way to much also. I spent $80 for the collectors edition which is not worth the money at 
 all. The graphics also were not as impressive as other games I have played. I have no idea what 
 people are thinking when they say these graphics are of high quality. Apparently it took the developers 
 a long time to make this game, but it does not show at all. The way the water hits land looks pretty 
 bad. I also had the game set at the highest of settings. Far cry's graphics are much better and 
 more polished. Also the way Steam made it such a hassle to play the game was by far the most aggravating 
 and annoying setup I have ever come across. Especially when I paid so much for this game. The load 
 times during levels was really bad also. It was horrible accidently walking backwards and you would 
 have to go thru a minute load time and step forward again and there it loads again. I thought that 
 was annoying in the first half-life and that should have been tweaked out. The multiplayer doesn't 
 seem that great either. I am going to unistall this game and its kind of a pain because I will 
 never play the game again because of the way steam makes you install the game. The original Half-Life 
 I think was probaly the best 1st person shooter for its time. Unfortantly this was is not even 
 close. I will be very wary of using Valve/Steam again thats for sure!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfberry420
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2004 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life has set the bar once again for first person shooters. Half-Life 2 has incredible graphics 
 engine "Source Engine." The source engine's enviroments are fulley interactive bringing the game 
 to life. Real world Physics apply to this game with ragdoll player physics and emersive gameplay. 
 The weapons in the game are all original and really are nothing like any other first person shooter. 
 The Gravity gun is a staple of how good this new source engine is with physics in the game. The 
 gravity gun can drag and hold pretty much any small or medium sized object in the game, hold the 
 item in front of you and when ready blast it at an ememy or build up a barricade at a door so you 
 cant be followed. This gun makes for some really interesting moments and really is one of the most 
 creative weapons ive ever seen. Graphics in the game are outstanding and the enviroments with the 
 physics engine are phenomenal. The sound in the game is top notch with worldy sounds going on around 
 you everywhere makes you feel like you hear everything thats going on around you. Replay value 
 in this game are you kidding with all this game has to offer online with steam will make this game 
 the most played on line game to date with games like Counter-Strike source, Half-Life 2 deathmatch, 
 Day of Defeat Source, and Half-Life the original ported over to the new graphics engine. This game 
 has always had new mods that are being created so you never have to play the same game but you 
 might want to play Half-Life 2 over and over it is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2004 5:31 am PT
Review:  Well, for the first time in my gaming history i decided to review this game once i completed it. 
 That way I can make a fair and accurate score. I was never into this whole Half Life thing. To 
 be honest with you, I played Half Life a long time ago, but didn't get into it because i loved 
 Unreal and Doom2 even more. I thought those games were more fun and immersive. 
  
  But like everyone else I decided to get this game to see what all the hype was about, and I wanted 
 to understand why there were millions of Half Life legions running around saying how great this 
 game was compared to Doom 3 and Far Cry (which i love) .
  
  So alas what do I think? Well for starters I am speechless. I have not finished the game, but based 
 on the level (near the end) that I am currently playing, I can honestly say that this game is one 
 of the greatest games I have ever played! Not to be like everyone else but I think this game is 
 an instant classic. You can see how I scored down below, but the overall decision I made to score 
 so hilghly was based by 2 main points. First is the story. Its great. The way you are immersed 
 in a world that you actually feel like a prisoner is incredible and makes for a great game story. 
 2nd point is the fact that seldom do I play games where the environment of the game (engine) comes 
 alive and is a big part of your experience. This is a game I have been begging for since I started 
 playing video games. I mean to be put in a world where you have to run through cities and fight 
 large alien machines ... is just incredible. No other game has given me this much enjoyment or 
 made me lose all sense of reality and become a real part of the game ...
  
  Now instead of describing why this got such a higher score from me, I will just note why this game 
 didn't get an overal 10 ...
  1) Gameplay: Engine is perfect!
  2) Graphics: Perfect
  3) Sound: Great! Techno beats are so sweet but not enough I could use more!!
  4) Value: Instant 
 classic ... but I wonder if I will play many times after I finish it like I did with Doom 2 ...
 
  5) Tilt: Combine this single player marvel with Counter Strike multiplayer and you have one of 
 the greatest gaming experiences in a very long time. Yes some might find Far Cry a marvel as well 
 ... but what seperates Half Life 2 from the rest is the fact that the story will immerse you and 
 give you a gaming experience we all have been longing for!
  CounterStrike will also give you years of enjoyment because you know there will be millions of 
 mod's and maps designed by you and me to enjoy ...
  
  My vote for Game of the Year ... and it was tough against the likes of Doom3, Far Cry, WoW, etc...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerberus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2004 5:18 am PT
Review:  A few things make a good game. While coming up short on one of those, Vavle hit a homerun with 
 the other aspects of the game making it one of the best titles this year.
  
  Gameplay --- HL2 has some of the best gameplay with an extremely friendly interface. If you played 
 the first HL, you had no trouble finding your way in this one. The AI improved greatly, but the 
 best aspect is the fact that you can interact with almost your entire enviroment.
  
  Graphics and Sound --- Another homerun here. Valve created a new physics engine for this game making 
 everything look and feel amazing.
  
  Story --- This is where I think Vavle came up a bit short. While there was a very smooth transition 
 from the first HL to the sequel, you rarely were a part of the story as you were just killing most 
 of the time and rarely took a break to continue the story. While this is a weak link, everything 
 else makes up for it.
  
  Multiplayer --- With the release of HL2: Deathmatch, HL2 comes fully equipt with multiplayer options 
 from CS: Source to DM, both of which are amazing and addicting.
  
  This is one of the best first-person shooters I have ever played. Valve once again broke new barriers 
 in the gaming world, something others failed to do such as Doom 3 and UT 2004. If you haven't played 
 it yet, you don't want to miss this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2004 1:59 am PT
Review:  I'm a self proclaimed super-fan of the run-and-gun stylized first-person-shooters of the olden 
 days, that's why I like Halo, and that's why I like Unreal. Half-Life, though it was a evolutionary 
 game for the genre, was not my cup of tea, on many levels. I liked the atmosphere, and I liked 
 the immersion, but I thought the gameplay was lacking overall and I also thought the presentation 
 was a little low-key for my liking. Games like the Quake, Halo, Unreal, Doom, and Wolfenstein series 
 were much more up my alley with fast, blast everything in your path, styled gameplay.
  
  Half-Life 2, on the other hand, takes the formula its predecessor set forth and ups it on every 
 conceivable level. It isn't hard to say that Half-Life 2 is one of, if not the single best campaign-driven 
 FPS around. I can't stress enough just how much fun this game is. Not only does this game offer 
 enough in terms of variation to the gameplay, but its physics engine in more ways than one doesn't 
 just add to the originality of the game, but it also plays a marvelous role in making you feel 
 like you're in the role of a real person.
  
  This is a reader review, so we can get personal here. I'm known for being a staunch defender of 
 Halo when it's compared to Half-Life, let me just tell you, Halo 2 and Half-Life have no reason 
 to be compared. Halo 2 is multiplayer focused, it's simple. Half-Life 2 is single-player focused, 
 it isn't Halo 2, and it doesn't try to be, besides, why would it anyway? Half-Life 2 is a grand 
 opus of a technical masterpiece combined with a high-budget cinematic epic. It's quite simply the 
 most engrossing game the genre has ever seen, at least in my opinion.
  
  The gameplay is flawless, really. It may not take the revolutionary step we all had hoped it would, 
 but it's better it didn't. Instead it took two things that developers have tried to blend together 
 this well for a very long time; superb action with an incredibly detailed world. As you probably 
 know already, you're playing the game as Gordon Freeman, the scientist hero that starred in the 
 first one. A silent, paper-thin, character that for some reason is amazingly interesting despite 
 having no real depth to him. You are in City 17, a concentration camp set up by the Government 
 to keep the people in check. Hounded by the Overwatch, you are not the predetor, you're the prey. 
 
  
  The greatest part about Half-Life 2's world is how you feel like you're on the run. You're Gordon 
 Freeman, you're the one man out of a legion of enslaved who is actually making a difference and 
 showing the Overwatch that you are here to stay. All the way from the beginning of the game, to 
 the spectacular climax, you'll find yourself engrossed in this creepy tale of Big Brother as you'd 
 never want to see it.
  
  As seen in many of the videos prior to its lengthy and troublesome development process, the physics 
 engine is one of the main draws of the game. The Source engine is an absolutely stunning technical 
 achievement in every aspect. It's easily the best around, and it's certainly the most capable. 
 There are so many ways to do what you're trying to do, thanks to the versatility of the engine. 
 It adds variety to the gameplay, it adds life to the world, it makes it seem real. It's something 
 I've never seen before, and that's what makes it so special.
  
  Graphically, the game starts off looking pretty good. To say the least, it's not better looking 
 than Far Cry or Doom 3, but damn, it's number 3 then. The graphics look better and better as the 
 game progresses. The beginning levels start out in the main area of City 17, you can see buildings, 
 see people walking, basically you can see how the city operates. As you get further and further 
 the areas start to spread out and change quite a bit. From the main city to Ravenholm, back to 
 the main City, then in to the Citadel, it's going to blow your mind. The graphical presentation 
 isn't only technically impressive though, it's easily the best looking game in the genre artistically. 
 Naturally, that's more subjective than not, but I certainly believe it's true. As far as games 
 go, it's the most photo realistic game I've seen before. There are some weak textures here and 
 there, but everything else makes up for that ten-fold. The character models especially are breathtaking, 
 and though it shouldn't be a big deal, the lip-synching in the game is amazing and it really draws 
 you in further to the already immersive gameplay. Everything about the game's look is flat-out 
 awesome.
  
  Half-Life 2 has some really awesome voice work, and it also has some really awesome sound effects 
 and music -- that is, when it has music. That's one of my only complaints with the game, usually 
 it's pretty quiet around City 17, you hear some sweet sound effects around there, especially the 
 Strider, which will make you tremble with fear, but the music that should be there to back up the 
 intense style of the game isn't always there. But you will be so sucked in to the game that you 
 probably won't really care either way -- I know I didn't.
  
  Everything about the game, from its gameplay, to its presentation, to the graphics, and everything 
 in between, is unbelievable. I couldn't tell you if this is the absolute best game the genre has 
 ever seen, but damn, it's pretty close. This is one of those games that will take you on a thrill-ride 
 that makes you happy you are part of the gaming community. This is one game you will never forget, 
 it's going to go down in History as one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProudLarry
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2004 12:15 am PT
Review:  If there is one thing I can say right off the bat about this game, it is that I don't believe there 
 has been a finer, more impressive, more exciting single-player experience, than this, released 
 since the original Doom.
  
  From the very beginning of the game you find yourself right in the middle of the action, trying 
 to escape from the omnipotent Combine, in City 17. A force that has all but made other people living 
 in City 17 their slaves. After meeting up with some old friends, and another unfortunate accident 
 involving a scientific experiment, you have to fight your way out of City 17 to an anti-Combine 
 resistance base outside of the city. The only efficient way to get there is by air boat, which 
 provides a very intense, and a very exhilarating ride through the outskirts of the city. You are 
 persued by just about everything the combine has at it's disposal. Its almost like someone knows 
 how big of a threat you may be.
  
  Everything I just described happens within the first two hours of the game. But the game after 
 this just never lets down. The firefights with the enemy AI later on is intense and really gives 
 you the feeling of being in the middle of a real action movie. After so many of these encounters 
 you would think that it would get repetitive and boring. But its the exact opposite. Every one 
 of them is unique, and difficult in it's own way. Later on in the game when you team up with Resistance 
 fighters, the game really hits its highpoint in just how exciting the game can get. The plot, and 
 background information is somewhat hard to follow if you don't pay close attention. Don't expect 
 NPCs to advance the story completely, instead, think of yourself (Gordon Freeman) AS the story. 
 It's your adventures and experiences that make up the bulk of the story telling.
  
  The scenery, architecture, art design, and the geometry of different objects is just absolutly 
 spectacular, and in some areas can almost pass for realistic. But character models is where Valve's 
 Source Engine really shines. The animations are fluid, and convincing. The facial expressions are 
 truly amazing though. For one of the first times in gaming, you have single character models that 
 can go through different emotions convincingly. The engine is also very forgiving on low-end systems 
 like mine. I really think this is the game that outdoes all others in graphics, and will be the 
 yard stick for every other game's graphics for the forseeable future.
  
  If there are things in the game that I would have liked to seen improoved upon, one would have 
 been the sound. Some of the weapon sounds arn't up to par for the rest of the game's quality. For 
 example, the pistol; it just sounds too weak for its own good. Some of the music is also a little 
 weak, but admittedly, there are enough good sound tracks in the game that it makes up for the weaker 
 ones. Superb voice acting in the game also makes up for anything else lacking in the sound department.
 
  
  Finally, the last thing i would like to talk about is, appropriatly enough, is the ending to the 
 game. I'm sure this isn't the first review you have read, so I'm sure you've allready heard complaints 
 about it. But my opinion seems to differ from others. My main problem is how the "final battle" 
 is fought. Its hard to go into detail about it without spoiling it, but suffice to say, I did find 
 it frustratingly boring. My problem was definatly not how the plot was wrapped up. Infact, I'd 
 say it was right in line with the orignal, and very appropriate. The game is also somewhat short, 
 clocking in at about 13-14 hours on normal difficulty. But considering that there is not a moment 
 in those hours that is anything less than exciting, you most definatly get your money's worth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okieace
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2004 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is a game that you will remember playing years from now. You will also most likely 
 find yourself playing through it again and again. It is that rare game that creates a fun, lasting 
 experience.
  
  The first thing the game does well is environment. The entire game is very immersive and really 
 does make you feel like you are part of the action. Soon you are thrust into running for your life. 
 As you make your way through the streets of city 17 you can't help be amazed at the details. It 
 is really those details that really draw you into the game. Enough really can't be said as to how 
 well this game pulls together a realistic and believable world.
  
  The game offers a great variety in game play. The first part of the game is a cat and mouse chase 
 (hint: your not the cat) . Later in the game you will be making your way through a zombified section 
 of the city at night which plays feels more like a horror game. Then there is a good amount of 
 vehicle action as well.
  
  One of the games many features is a fully flushed out physics engine which is put to full effect 
 throughout the game. This is probably the most innovative piece of the game. I know games have 
 had physics for a long time, but not like this. Each object in the environment has its own properties 
 and acts differently in the engine. This is put to full use in the puzzle designs. For instance 
 a couple of puzzles is a matter of putting enough heavy objects (like bricks) to counteract your 
 own weight. 
  
  The other manner in which the physics engine is put the use is with the gravity gun. This weapon 
 is one of the most unique ones you will come across in in game. With this weapon you can pick up 
 objects and toss them at your enemies. This goes for exploding barrels, saw blades, oxygen tanks, 
 and more. The results of this are pretty satisfying. For instance if you toss a saw blade at a 
 group of zombies they will all fall in half, throwing an oxygen bottle will results in setting 
 your enemy on fire. Then I don't think I have to explain what happens when you throw an exploding 
 barrel.
  
  If the game has a weak point its the story. When you start the story and as it progresses you will 
 start to ask several questions. The problem is none of them will be answered. It's never explained 
 how this is related to the black mesa incident (though the game makes it clear there is a correlation) . 
 Why the main enemy from the last game, the Vortigaunts, are now a ally? None of this is explained 
 to you. In order to really enjoy the story you just have to forget about the original game all 
 together and try and quiet your mid from all the answers raised.
  
  This is all-in-all one great game that should be on any gamers Christmas list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SQUILTHEONE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2004 10:18 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 what a game .. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is a technically amazing, sharply honed first-person shooter that pulls all the tricks 
 that made Half-Life such a beloved experience. With that said, many of those tricks feel more than 
 a bit familiar now, and the game itself is saddled with a disappointing story. Still, that doesn't 
 stop Half-Life 2 from being a very impressive and engaging shooter, and a faithful follow-up to 
 one of the greatest PC games of all time. The sound effects are also well done. Once again, it's 
 the little details that stand out, like the buzzing noise of manhacks as they approach and the 
 clatter of a gutter pipe as something climbs up to reach you. As in the original game, there's 
 very little music, and what's here is electronic in nature and reserved to emphasize important 
 moments, such as when you're headed for a showdown with a major foe. Most of the music is forgettable, 
 but there are a few standout themes, one of which is recycled from the original game. funny :) 
 .
  
  
  
  -squil- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaseDR
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2004 10:10 am PT
Review:  I went down to the stores and got a regular copy of HL2 after work as well as shopped for a Gainward 
 6800GT Golden Sample. I know I'm severely low on cash this month, but the desire to grab that trusty 
 crowbar and crack some headcrab was so strong I couldn't resist. Because of all the spending I 
 had done, I'm prolly going to lunch breads, dine breads, skip breadfast, and drink from canals.
 
  
  Installation of the game was a slow and painful process. Now only if I'd gotten the Collector's 
 Edition DVD I won't need to seat through the installation of 5 cds. Then I had to update the game 
 via steam... did I mentioned it was a bad time to get on steam? Valve released HL2DM on the same 
 time I need to decrypt the game.
  When I heard that HL2DM was released I was like: \o/
  After waiting for 45 minutes getting no responses from steam I went like: T_T
  
  So after an 
 hour of installation and waiting I finally got into the game. First thing that any player will 
 notice is the incredible facial animation of the G-Man, and the detail textures used for the model 
 and the great looking gameworld. I feel Valve had pretty much hit the nail in the head with character 
 models and animation with HL2. Instead of overdoing, exaggerating player movement, what HL2 present 
 to us was pretty seamless. Keeping image detail high, soft realistic lightings and keeping the 
 field of vision at 75 makes a realistic and very believable gameworld. HL2 is a fantastic first 
 step by source into what DirectX 9 have to offer.
  
  The gameplay in HL2 is pretty linear, and probably won't impressed the more demanding fps gamers 
 till you get hold of the gravity gun, which is the highlight of HL2. HL2 gameplay focus on the 
 engine incredible physic system. Player by default are allowed to carry an object and use them 
 as shield, with the gravity gun you can pull an object towards you, and throw it at high velocity 
 towards enemies.
  
  You also have other weapons in your arsenal. I always feel HL series have one of the most effective 
 single player inventories ever, and HL2 is even better. Weapons are often mimic of realworld counterpart, 
 to crazier things like the Pheromones that control antlions to assist you in fighting and Combine 
 rifle extinguisher. You won't believe it till you see it.
  
  Unlike most fps where a player often got transported from locales to locales, HL2 focus on the 
 amazing journey of Gorden Freeman. You won't be teleported from scene to scene, rather if you need 
 to walk across the street to get to wallmart, you'll have to walk across the street. And the brilliance 
 of the level design behind HL2 is that in every portion you got to is believable and always have 
 something interesting to keep player busy. Youll really feel the length of the travel and the 
 giganticness of this world of Half Life, but never a moment is the feeling dull.
  
  I honestly feel HL2 is the game that got all the music timing right. The feeling an epic battle 
 that is about to happen always opens with a adrenaline pumping soundtrack. And these boss battles 
 are all so memorable and incredible. The sounds in HL2 in general is great, when it comes to level 
 ambiance and weapon sound, the sounds of footstep on the rooftops of riverholm makes you wonder 
 when are those zombies going to pounce on you. The game come with awesome dialogues and voice acting 
 thats hard to beat. Coupled with good lip-syncing and animation, it really adds a lot of life 
 into the characters.
  
  HL already had the biggest online community of any games ever. The incredible thing is the community 
 wont stop there; modifications will appear, user maps will be everywhere and new community supporting 
 these mods will form. Four years down the road, no matter how old and dated this engine will be, 
 HL will still be alive, and still be known as the most active and popular gaming community ever.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eTrace
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2004 3:14 am PT
Review:  Half-Life was an astounding shooter that burst onto the PC gaming scene in 1998 and completely 
 annihilated every other shooter in terms of immersion and gameplay. Much of the same can be said 
 about Half-Life 2. Half-Life 2 puts you in the shoes of Gordon Freeman, a scientist from Black 
 Mesa (setting of Half-Life) that is forced to fight through mobs of headcrabs, zombies, marines, 
 and in Half-Life 2, the Combine Forces. This time, Gordon will be fighting in City 17, the last 
 stronghold of humans on earth (or is it earth?) . 
  
  The gameplay in Half-Life 2 is top notch. The game takes you through a bevy of styles of gameplay. 
 From the surprisingly scary streets of Ravenholm, where you have to fend off hordes of zombies 
 and headcrabs with little or no ammo, to the intense shootouts in Nova Prospekt, where you have 
 to use your head to stay alive from the approaching Combine Soldiers. Also, there are a few levels 
 that involve vehicles that break up the on foot action quite nicely. All of these seperate gameplay 
 elements make your experience more rich than any other game this year. The Artificial Intelligence 
 in this game is good, but it isn't as much of an upgrade that you would expect. The zombies have 
 a new trick up their sleeve that caught me off guard the first time I saw it. Now they can throw 
 objects at you like barrels and it will knock your vision off-kilter for a moment, otherwise, they 
 will just slowly stagger toward you making them an easy kill. The Combine Soldiers are a more entertaining 
 foe, they will flank your position, toss grenades to weed you out, and did I mention they carry 
 guns? However, they aren't the best opponent ever, because they will often just run at you and 
 not fall back for cover. All of the guns feel top notch. They all have a part to play and there 
 is a good selection making it fun to play through sections using any gun you want. One new weapon 
 that you earn, is the Pheropods, which attract Antlions who will hunt down combine soldiers for 
 you. The biggest dissapointment in the weapons area is the lack of new guns. However, one of the 
 new guns is the Gravity Gun. You can throw pretty much anything around realistically and watch 
 it bounce around, or you can take the less humane aproach and throw objects at your helpless enemies.
 
  
  The gravity gun wouldn't be possible without the new graphics engine that VALVe created for Half-Life 
 2. They call it Source. and it is clearly the wave of the future in terms of realistic graphics 
 and physics. The amount of detail in the game overall is astounding. The vast majority of the textures 
 are sharp, and the player models are very clean. The draw distances are better than any other game 
 I have seen, with Combine structures casting shadows for miles around. The facial expressions of 
 your comrades and enemies are more lifelike than any game before it. With characters truly conveying 
 emotion realistically. One notable problem is some framerate and sound issues right after loading 
 up a new area. It only lasts for a few seconds and is the only flaw in Half-Life 2's visual package.
 
  
  The sound is another highpoint in this game. It correctly sets the mood for every situation in 
 the game. It is quite enjoyable to listen to and it gets you pumped up for the coming action sequence. 
 The only letdown in the sound department is the lack of music. It seems to kick in to creep you 
 out, pump you up, or set the emotion of the section. However, in VALVe's defense, these moments 
 wouldn't be as scary or exciting if the music played throughout the journey. The voice acting in 
 the game is top notch, coupled with the great facial animation, makes the characters and story 
 all the more believable.
  
  The story in Half-Life 2 is great. There are many surprising plot twists that will keep you enthralled 
 throughout. I won't spoil anything, but you will be amazed at where you are at the end and how 
 far you have come. It leaves a bit open ended, similar to the first Half-Life. While this will 
 definetly anger some, it leaves space for speculation and general excitement about what Half-Life 
 3 has in store.
  
  I played Half-Life 2 on the normal setting, and it took me approximately 10-15 hours to complete. 
 This may be labeled as a "short" game, but there are other things that come into play. The whole 
 game is so immersive and fun that I am sure that I will be heading back to City 17 again and again. 
 Of course not everyone will want to replay the campaign, so VALVe included the great Counter-Strike: 
 Source with Half-Life 2. It is a great addition to the single player, and will keep you coming 
 back for more. Also, the newly released Half-Life 2 Deathmatch is a wonderful feature. In it, you 
 get to run around levels from the single player game with other people and you get to have alot 
 of fun playing around with the weapons of Half-Life 2, including the marvelous gravity gun. 
  
  In the end, Half-Life 2 is worth the wait. Every element comes together perfectly to form one 
 of the best shooter experiences seen on PC or any other format. It is the most immersive game to 
 date and should be experienced by anyone with a computer able to handle it. Now we can only wait 
 for Half-Life 3, and hopefully it will come faster than this iteration did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockhurst
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2004 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Everything you hear about this game is true. The graphics are great (and very forgiving on lower 
 end systems) , immersive gameplay, and decent A. I. Playing this game on a 61" HDTV, it definitely 
 looks gorgeous. However, even with a full 5.1 stereo, the sound isn't as filling as it could be. 
 Unfortunately, the game does nothing to move the storyline along enough to satisfy those looking 
 for a good story. In addition, several of the initial levels are drawn out longer than necessary. 
 However, the levels to fit together well. In addition, the game does not provide enough variation 
 & challenges to satisfy "hard core" FPS fans. There are only 3 difficulty levels, which limits 
 the replayability of the single player game (unlike Far Cry which provides more difficult settings) . 
 Given the large fan base for HL2, expect several mods that will expand the replayability for years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterjeditimo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2004 2:35 pm PT
Review:  great game, thats all i have to say.
  i do have one problem, and that is the missing of accurate weaopons, there are NO good weapons 
 for long distance. of cource the best part of hl2 is the grav gun, and recently i found out that 
 it is fantastic for mp. the vehicles drive a bit bad, the steering just doesnt goes as fast as 
 i want it to. 
  and what i also found weird that the AI not impressed me a all. the AI of far cry was much better, 
 but well they were smart enough. but just not as smart as i thought they would be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2004 8:09 pm PT
Review:  After all the delays, code thefts, court hearings and what not, Valve has finally released it's 
 sequel to the best shooter of all time : Half-Life. Aptly named Half-Life 2, this game takes you 
 on another adventure with everybody's favorite geek, Gordon Freeman. In this installment, Gordon 
 wakes up on a train, after "dreaming" about Mr. Personnalitly himself : The G-Man. Stepping into 
 the appocalyptic City 17, Gordon will soon discover that he's a wanted man... and then the fun 
 begins !
  
  I won't be talking about the other game that comes with Half-Life 2 : Counter-Strike Source. I 
 am not a big fan of CS (shocking, isn't it ?) thus I will not comment on it.
  
  Now, on to the subject of this review. HL2 is not HL1 in many ways, some good, some not so good. 
 First off, the good.
  
  One thing stands out above all the rest : the graphics. They are absolutely outstanding. Just looking 
 at the faces of the characters in the game gives you a good idea on how this new Havoc graphics 
 engine works : they are incredibly lifelike. After some of the more elaborate gunfights in the 
 game, you can actually see the bulletholes in the walls. The physics are well represented also 
 : the ragdoll effect (best in any game ever) and the lighting effects are both awesome. The sound 
 is also very well rendered. The guns sound incredibly powerfull. The zombies, headcrabs, and other 
 "lovely" creatures you will encounter give you the creeps when they let out a scream or a howl. 
 Lighting and sound make the atmosphere of this game and are a big part of it's success.
  
  The story, on the other hand, is kinda lacking in intensity. It's good, but not great. I think 
 Valve could've went a long way with this appocalyptic future but stopped short. The mini-games, 
 as in HL1, are a nice touch but can be oh so frustrating ! The voice acting is very good.
  
  The new Half-Life 2 Deathmatch mode is a nice addition to the game, but needs some tweaking. 
 Valve seem very quick to make adjustments, so I have no doubt in my mind that the multiplayer will 
 become a big part of future installments of HL. And with the SDK coming out, I have no doubt that 
 the online community will add on to this interesting part of the game.
  
  Now, on to the bad... not alot of it, but it has to be said. The loading times are painstakingly 
 long and take you out of the game completely. I have a pretty good PC here and the loading can 
 take between 45 seconds and one minute. Come on now ! I hope Valve comes out with a patch to fix 
 this soon. As for the stuttering, I wasn't reallly affected by this, so I can't say it was a nuissance.
 
  
  All in all, Half-Life 2 is an incredible game and is worth buying and playing. Now, grab your crowbar, 
 and go at it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2004 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Well all the wait was worth it. This game is above and beyond the best FPS I have played to date! 
 
  I love the physics in this game. I spent the first two hours playing the game just wandering around 
 interacting with objects.
  You wont believe how real the game feels.
  Also I was very impressed with the AI. Interaction with other NPC's is almost multi player like. 
 NPC's will follow you and interact with objects just as you do. I almost died the first time an 
 NPC shattered open a crate to expose ammo. 
  
  I could go on and on. Graphics, sounds, game play... Im hooked!! This gets my vote for game of 
 the year!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: graygibbo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I will try not to put any spoilers in this review any spoilers which do arises will be minor or 
 will be a spoiler saying something along the lines of why did they take this bit out of the game? 
 thus not being much of a spoiler.
  
  Ok lets get one thing straight first if your easy to please you will love this game, if your not 
 and had expectations of this game you may well be left a little or very disappointed with the outcome.
 
  The game is very pushy as you only ever have one route to take which is fine at times but the 
 game feels very claustrophobic even when your in the outdoor areas. What I mean by claustrophobic 
 is that if your outside in the city there are no spacious areas, its just buildings shuffling you 
 along your set path with road block after road block of broken buildings stopping you from taking 
 any other routes, oh and the occasional block made by the combine. Dont get me wrong but I have 
 played many games which use the set route style but I dont even notice it because it is nicely 
 hidden but, when I play HL2 I cant help but think why am I being shuffled along down one route 
 it is that noticeable. Though the gravity gun is very good and fun to use after a while you get 
 a sense of it is being over used and thus loses its magic. HL2 scrapes a 9 for value because of 
 the addition of Counter Strike: Source which by the way is so fun to play online you should buy 
 HL2 just to have it. The reason why HL2 isnt really value for money is that the game simply did 
 not live up to expectations, it wasnt as smart as it promised to be, the enemy AI did not and 
 does not think like Valve claim in anyway at all. Tthe Strider does not assess whether it can 
 go under a bridge and do you want me to tell you how I know because there is no bridge for it to 
 go under and the bit where it starts off underground doesnt count. The only smart thing that the 
 combine soldier does is its grenade throwing ability, it will always seem toss one at the right 
 spot just as you manage to get yourself in a good position thus flushing you out but, sadly the 
 AI isnt smart enough to finish you off. Which now brings me to my next point the easiness of this 
 game is laughable I played it on Hard which is the hardest setting and barely died in the game 
 at all infact I died once or twice. Except for the bit which happens to be ridiculously hard in 
 the prison, people who have read down this far who have finished HL2 will know exactly what I mean 
 by that. Well until you figure out what you're really supposed to do and then it's back to easy 
 mode again.
  All those cool bits you saw in the videos released by Valve are no where to be seen e. g. the throwing 
 the grenade under a big metal container flipping it off the platform down to the platform below 
 crushing the soldiers well nope not in it, cant even flip containers with a grenade. Cars seem 
 to be too heavy, you will find them randomly scattered around they just do not move unless you 
 stand next to them with the gravity gun and blast them, well erm I thought shooting the thing with 
 a rocket propelled grenade might just move it a little at least but no nothing.
  They missed out soooooooo much considering they took a whole 6 years to make the thing and the 
 only reason I can see why they took that long is they spent most of there time taking things out 
 putting things in again. To elaborate on that were the hell is the blue thing that stabs that guy 
 and drags him into the water? What happened to it? Its not anywhere in the game at all so those 
 of you looking at that picture thinking its cool sorry to disappoint you but that doesnt exist 
 in the game. The OICW gun was also taken out. As was the big alien with the flamethrowers on its 
 hands by the sounds of things as I remember reading something saying you hide from it and you unsuccessfully 
 hide (yeh by the way what happened to being able to do that valve?) and it probes in this thing 
 which searches the room it spots you and then there is banging on the door and it begins to crumble 
 and buckle but then a huge fist comes through the wall, now correct me if Im wrong but just how 
 cool does that sound? I think you will agree with in saying WOW! but, oh well another cool feature 
 and bit of game play Valve decided not to have as part of their game. Also as you are very much 
 pushed along one way there is very little time to be able to use the coolness of blocking doors 
 with tables stopping your enemies getting at you. You will also ask yourself on the hovercraft 
 bit when will it ever end? I can almost guarantee it, almost being because you might word it 
 different in your head! The ending of the game is so disappointing too in which the way it ends 
 and for obvious reasons I wont say anymore than that about the ending. Anyways I feel I have complained 
 enough about the game so those of you who have bothered to read this far give yourself a pat on 
 the back! As I am now about to say good things about the game! YES you heard it me say good things 
 about HL2!
  I will start with saying how cool it is when using the crossbow usually one hit will kill the soldier 
 and its pins them against a wall so its pretty cool to see a metal rod through someones chest 
 as they hang off a wall (or am I just disturbed for finding that cool?!) . Its fun beheading the 
 headcrabs from there victims using a circular saw blade fired using the gravity gun. The best part 
 of the game is going into the village where no one goes which inspires some of the most fun and 
 creative moments of the game which you will just have to trust me on as I am not going to spoil 
 any of those fun moments you have in this part of the game. I will say one thing though and that 
 is be prepared to *poop* yourself when you meet a new kind of headcrab for the first time who has 
 taken there victim. The only slightly open part of the game is when you get into the what I will 
 refer to as the beyond ghetto car which is comprising of just a metal frame, wheels and a nitrous 
 oxide supply! (yes of course the engine is on there as well how could I forget!) this is when you 
 meet the alien which is straight out of the movie Starship Troopers, so yes someone on the valve 
 team was obviously a keen admirer of the movie or they thought the alien was cool at least as I 
 for one will not let Valve ever claim that they never copied it (though they havent denied it 
 they didnt exactly confirm it, in fact no one has really asked them but who cares!) . The graphics 
 are simply gorgeous regardless of setting really so those of you with that much needed upgrade 
 shouldnt really worry as this game has great graphics across the board and is also a lot less 
 demanding then other high profile games of this stature. The games length is healthy took me a 
 while to complete including messing around with things too and believe me when I say this I complete 
 games very quickly usually within 2 or 3 days maximum this took me around 5 days or so. But like 
 I said above Counter Strike: Source brings up the value of the game some of you maybe asking why 
 didnt you give it a 10 well it didnt deserve a 10 because it wasnt the game it should have been, 
 like I said they missed out so much and Im not sure I can see myself playing it again anytime 
 soon.
  Sound is simply lovely on a 5.1 surround set up at least anyways gun sounds are tops love the machine 
 gun sounds if only a certain doom 3 had more nicer weapon sounds
  The release of Death Match for HL2 is a good thing though the games are laggy at the moment the 
 basis of the death match are very good it is absolute madness and good fun.
  
  Last and probably most importantly as to why HL2 is a disapointment is if you have played and loved 
 HL1, it just doesn't 'feel' like it's Half Life...
  
  This is the conclusion to my review I may go back at a later time and tweak to include anything 
 I forgot good or bad.
  
  And for those of you reading this thank you for reading my review or at least scrolling to the 
 bottom and reading this line! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Paradox-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2004 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 brings back the good of the first and gets rid of the bad from the first. Half-Life 
 was a great game dont get me wrong, but half-life 2 is a huge improvement. It provides better graphics, 
 gameplay, and value. You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist trying to save the Earth from alien 
 beasts. Half-Life 2 takes computer games to a height of real graphics. Extremely Awesome AI result 
 in enemies that respond to the player's actions. As you can see Half-Life 2 blends characters with 
 real life and everything else with fantasy. I would highly recommend this game to people who liked 
 half-life the sequel is twice the good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vulcan3d
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2004 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, The gameplay is superb. And yes, the graphics aren't bad. They don't break new ground, 
 but they aren't bad at all. Sound can be glitchy if you are hit with the dread stuttering bug or 
 during autoloads. 
  
  Steam is the cause of and solution to all HL2 issues. If you are one of the lucky ones that can 
 use it without problems, you will praise this game and your experience. If you aren't... well, 
 find a forum and vent your spleen.
  
  Another interesting issue is the retail version, which I own. It requires you to put the CD in 
 every time you play the game. This is not true of the Steam version, which handles everything behind 
 the scenes.
  
  The price point for Steam packages is good, considering that for $5 extra, you can get the entire 
 Valve back catalog as well. But Retail? No, not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osuc69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2004 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok so ive completed this game, I didn't play it outright like many people who purchased it and 
 continued to lock themselves in a dark room and came out after 2 days of constant playing.
  
  I really don't see the point of doing this, as half life 2 is an experience to be taken slowly, 
 so you can appreciate the game, and marval at its brilliance. The levels are quiet varied dispite 
 what many have said. The veihicular levels were great and exciting and the set pieces were amazing.
 
  
  I think valve shot itself in the foot somewhat by leaving out many of the scenes it used to wow 
 audiences such as the tentacle/combine sequence, the strider attacking kliners lab, and some of 
 the sequences involving striders in the open streets. 
  
  Also i think the game could have benifited from a lot more music, when the music did make an apperance 
 i found it quiet in keeping with the pace of the game, and i wish it was utiliesed a lot more.
 
  
  The graphics are rather a site to behold, I spend hours just looking at the water and swimming 
 in it, it really is that good. The physics along with the graphics compliment each other well, 
 and you really do absorb the atmosphere that the developers have tried to convey. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect counterstrike source, everyone will be familar with, but at the time of 
 writing half life 2 deathmatch has just been released. There are to many levels with which to play 
 on, but the levels that are included (two at the moment) are great fun, and with the graivty gun 
 and assortment of weapons, make for some great multiplaying moments and screen shots. 
  
  I am excited in the possiblity of more mods and things are just moving along nicely, and it a few 
 months im sure that there will be lots more levels and variety that will make this game one to 
 tell the grand children about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kobe8Rice41
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2004 7:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - What can i say, it is just a blast. I have played quite a few first person shooters 
 and this is definately a masterpiece. Though Counter Strike : Source is pretty similiar to the 
 old version it doesnt actually mean its a bad thing. This thing is amazing! Plus we now have Half 
 Life Deathmatch!!
  
  Graphics - Overall crisp and clear textures with many more great techinical features and such. 
 This game has has the best graphics you can get. I really believe that its graphics are perfect 
 for today's standards. The great thing is is that even geforce 4 mx cards can run this game! While 
 its only in DX 7 its still a darn good DX 7.
  
  Sound - Just like everything esle about this game I love it. 
  
  Value - The best bang for 
 your buck out there
  
  Go get this game now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2004 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1998, a game known as Half Life was released from Valve which brought about a new kind 
 of First Person Shooter (FPS) for the genre in way of interaction and basic story implementation. 
 You were known as Gordon Freeman, the theoretical physicist who visited Black Mesa to help out 
 on some testing when everything seemed to go wrong. Now, years later, youre called upon by the 
 mysterious G-Man to help out the people of the world. Half Life and its expansion created a fan 
 base that surpassed the creators intention, with the fan made module Counter Strike. A multiplayer 
 game using the same engine used in Half Life. This mod, along with Day of Defeat, another fan created 
 mod, went on to become the biggest mods of the FPS genre created by the fans themselves. The popularity 
 alone of Counter Strike can easily be seen by just walking through the halls of any dormitory. 
 Im guessing that at least 9 out of 10 gamers can tell you what Counter Strike is and how much 
 fun they have playing it with others across the world.
  
  So, as soon as Half Life was done being created, Valve started working on the sequel to their game 
 of the year. While wanting to create something as innovative as the first game, Valve also wanted 
 to rely on what made the first game so popular, which was the interaction that could be utilized 
 throughout the world inside the game. They knew that they needed to put a lot of time and thought 
 into the game so that fans wouldnt be disappointed with the follow up. So, they started from almost 
 scratch creating the Source Engine from a heavily modded version of the Havok Engine, used in other 
 games such as Painkiller, which is definitely far superior compared to the Quake engine which was 
 used in the first Half Life and its expansions.
  
  The story starts off from where it left off in Half Life where the G-Man calls upon you for your 
 skills in both combat and knowledge. The story of the game can be confusing at times trying to 
 figure out what the big picture really is, but thats because the game plays like a sequel stuck 
 in the middle of a trilogy. Where eventually, after another game, youll probably figure everything 
 out, but for now, youre stuck with all these unanswered questions. This can lead the average gamer 
 to be confused throughout the 18 or so hours theyll spend fighting off the combine, which is an 
 alien race that has taken the world hostage, and also other creatures such as striders and the 
 famous headcrabs from the first Half Life. Youll battle through multiple chapters, unlike the 
 game Far Cry where there are different levels. Separating these chapters are load times which can 
 be quite long and will interrupt the gameplay sometimes when all you want to do is go farther and 
 deeper into the game. But those are not the only places these load times interrupt you, in different 
 spots throughout the game, youll experience these little adrenaline stoppers which will at most 
 frustrate you, but after awhile, you almost see them coming and your gameplay wont be affected 
 by it as much.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and rich. Everything in the game is practically moveable by the player 
 one way or another. The Source Engine really brings the world to life around you as you walk through 
 City 17 and the various other terrains during your time in Half Life 2. Shadows spray the ground 
 around players, lights, and environmental objects just waiting to catch your eye. Screenshots alone 
 dont truly do Half Life 2 justice. You have to see the water spray up in your face from the fan 
 boat or a barrel that gets pelted at your face from a combine soldier to really appreciate the 
 Source Engine at its best. But whats really beautiful in Half Life 2 are the facial features of 
 the characters. A lot of time and many polygons were spent to make the speaking npcs look realistic 
 to the point where even their feelings can been seen from their facial expressions. From Barney 
 to Alyx, and G-Man to Dr. Vance, youll see the detail that represents humanistic facial features 
 with great vocals which were done by a talented cast of notable voice actors including Robert Guillaume, 
 Louis Gossett Jr., Robert Culp, and Michelle Forbes. Along with the updated graphics is the new 
 physics engine. Its simply amazing. In a children's playground, I placed a brick on one side of 
 the teeter-totter and then jumped from a balcony onto the other side to watch the brick fly up 
 in the air, but realistically. Thats definitely something that adds a lot of depth to an experience 
 in any game.
  
  In the department of sound, Half Life 2 really doesnt have any theme music. Throughout the game, 
 youll hear some techno tunes flow through some of the heavy gun battles or when youre about to 
 come to a major point in the game. But other than that, youll mostly be entertained with the sounds 
 of your different weapons throughout the chapters of the game. Voice acting, as mentioned above, 
 was done extremely well and it needs to be pointed out that because of the time spent and talent 
 used in the voice acting, the game thrives even more and makes the player feel more involved in 
 their task at hand while roaming the Ravenholm attacking anything and everything that moves while 
 listening to the bantering of a shotgun-wielding priest. That may seem funny right now, but wait 
 till you get to that point and hear the moaning of a headcrab infested body writhing on the ground 
 trying to grab your ankles in the darkness. Even though the music isnt much in Half Life 2, the 
 other sounds such as voices, weapons, and enemies more than make up for the lack of music so you 
 never feel like you dont get the full experience and gameplay.
  
  Gordon Freeman has a multitude of weapons to choose from in his travels including the trusty crowbar, 
 the gravity gun, the pistol, the .357 magnum, the SMG, the Overwatch Pulse Rifle, the shotgun, 
 the crossbow, grenades, the rocket launcher, and the pheropod. Most of these may sound normal, 
 but Ill elaborate just a little on a couple of them. The Gravity Gun is definitely a new addition 
 to the Half Life series and it comes in with a bang. This has got to be the singular best weapon 
 of any FPS to date. (I realize something similar could be said about the stake gun in the game 
 Painkiller, but Half Life 2s crossbow has a similar affect) . This gun lets you pick up almost 
 anything in the game and then lets you shoot the object out at anything or anyone. The distance 
 the object goes depends on the size of the object keeping the feel realistic. The gravity gun can 
 provide hours of entertainment throughout the first few chapters after receiving it because youll 
 definitely spend a lot of time experimenting the limits of this spectacular addition to the weapons 
 category. The Overwatch Pulse Rifle is basically a rifle that shoots a higher powered bullet/pellet. 
 You receive this gun from the combine soldiers throughout the game and I can definitely tell you 
 that they just dont hand it to you. The pheropod is also a new addition to the Half Life series 
 letting you utilize your enemies to your benefit. With this weapon, youll be able to command the 
 antlions that roam the sandy beaches outside of the combines barracks. These antlions will obey 
 any command you give them and they are constantly digging up out of the ground to obey your every 
 order. The only problem with this weapon is that its used for a very short time in the game, but 
 it makes an impact nonetheless. These 11 weapons will help you, Gordon Freeman, progress through 
 the many chapters of the game with some ease depending on which weapon you like best. But, your 
 creativity will never run out with the possibilities of how to take care of your opponents in the 
 game whether theyre headcrabs, antlions, or the combine soldiers.
  
  The gameplay of Half Life 2 will lead you all the way through the game and keep you wishing for 
 more once youve beaten it. One nice thing about this FPS is the use of puzzles throughout the 
 game. Gordon will have to use some actual brainpower to progress through some of the chapters, 
 whether its knowing which valve to turn to lower/raise the water in a flooded room, or figuring 
 out how to demolish a bridge so that he can drive through with the fan boat. These puzzles can 
 be easy and some can be hard to the point of leaving the player frustrated because of thinking 
 too deeply. Your best bet, if youre having problems, is to quit, walk away for a bit, and come 
 back and take a different approach to the situation. Youll feel a lot better about yourself if 
 you dont scurry to the forums and ask people how to pass every puzzle. And with accomplishments 
 come prizes. The introduction of vehicles was also a nice touch to the series. Valve included a 
 couple chapters where Gordon drives around in a fan boat and also an overly large go-kart/dune 
 buggy. Even though there are specific terrains and atmospheres for each vehicle, theyre a nice 
 break in the action of running from building to building dodging the fire power of your enemies. 
 One nice little secret can be found by using your suits binoculars on different times throughout 
 the game, you might just see the G-Man walking around a corner. Strange?
  
  Half Life 2 didnt ship with any multiplayer component, but was simultaneously released with an 
 updated Source Engine version of Counter Strike. Valve realized the potential of this fan created 
 mod and quickly purchased the rights, along with hiring the people who created it to help bring 
 it up to speed with the new engine giving the game the new physics and graphics that come along 
 with the modded Havok Engine. The main maps from the first Counter Strike were updated such as 
 Office, Italy, and Dust 1 and 2. I believe there are 8-10 total so far that have been updated and 
 more are sure to be on their way.
  
  The game is nicely polished, and it should be for coming out over a year since the first supposed 
 release date. Actually, take supposed out, and replace it with guaranteed release date by Gabe 
 himself. I wont go over that issue anymore because Im sure any Half Life fans definitely know 
 about the the long wait between the guaranteed release date and the actual release date. I didnt 
 run into any showstopping bugs of any kind while playing, I just had the same problem the rest 
 of the community that bought the game had. A stuttering in the music and gameplay when approaching 
 a new area or turning a corner too quickly, but Valve has located the problem and are working on 
 a fix right now.
  
  Overall, Half Life 2 was a nice addition to the FPS genre for, what seems to be, the year of the 
 FPS including the likes of Far Cry, Doom 3, Painkiller, Unreal Tournament 2004, and many others. 
 Even though it doesnt truly bring as much innovation as the first Half Life, it still brings a 
 lot of fun to the table for any gamer. If you enjoyed the first Half Life, youre going to love 
 Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaSheeSh_basic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2004 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Firstly... let me put it this way... I've never had so much fun in a singleplayer game since Deus 
 Ex. 
  
  Where should I start? The game uses an amazing graphics engine... which outta be considered as a 
 massive technological breakthrough in the gaming world. The physics, lighting, and bump-mapping 
 show that the engine has great potential and would be the cause for the making of several upcoming 
 and groundbreaking games.
  
  The sounds are highly impressive. Valve did a great job at synchronizing the voice acting and the 
 lip-sync of the charachters. The effects are amazing ranging from explosions in the city to non-stop 
 firefights of the combine soldiers against you and the resistance. 
  
  Gameplay: Best ways to describe it as NON-STOP ACTION!! Thats especially when you fight the combine 
 soldiers, thrown objects using the gravity gun and cause a chain reaction of explosions, end up 
 in heavy firefights with the resistance as you battle the combine and defend a certain area, blow 
 up the walking striders with your allies as you all use RPGs.
  
  Overall the game is amazing... and I believe it deserved a better score from Gamespot. Its unfortunate 
 that it didn't have a multiplayer component other than Counter-Strike Source. But soon there will 
 be community mods in the making that will deliver nothing but unlimited fun and replayability. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2004 6:08 pm PT
Review:  After several years of development, Half Life 2 finally hit the shelves of retail stores. But was 
 it worth the wait?
  
  Story:-
  The first thing you will notice when you play the game, is that it tries to stay true to the original. 
 In one way its good but in another way it feels a bit been there done that. You arrival to City 
 17 is a mystery in the beginning and the mystery behind Gordon Freemans overall purpose is revealed 
 at the end of the game. The game revolves around a place called City 17 and the past incidence 
 of Black Mesa, which was in the first Half Life, is the backbone of the storyline in Half Life 
 2. Most storyline in games have a tangible beginnings and endings but Half Life 2 storyline is 
 more like a snippet of a much larger story. With that said, the story isnt typical for it is told 
 from a third person perspective rather than first person, giving the feel that while youre in 
 the gaming world you are also not part of it.
  
  Gameplay:-
  When a highly anticipated game is released, the core discussion and main concern is the gameplay. 
 Half Life 2 gameplay is very similar to the modern day first person shooters. Its a healthy combination 
 of No One Lives Forever and Far Cry. The pacing of the game maybe problematic for some, cause its 
 starts off a tad slow and disorienting but later it picks up tremendously. Weapons to a very large 
 extent are the same as the original. The trademark weapon the crowbar is your first weapon and 
 the standard weapons gradually become part of your arsenal like pistol, shotgun, grenade and rocket 
 launcher. The few newer weapons except for the gravity gun add little to differentiate itself for 
 the standard weapons. One of the most frequently used weapon is the gravity gun; it is also the 
 games focal point. This gun is only acquired one quarter into the game for obvious reason when 
 you eventually acquire it. With gravity gun, youre able to solve many of the puzzles physics oriented 
 puzzles. It is also used to create a more dynamic environment since it is able to pull most objects 
 to itself and then use the same object as a projectile against enemies. The use of the gun becomes 
 more and more dominating as you near the end of the game.
  
  The game includes vehicles but the use of the vehicles is very linear. In that theyre used only 
 to move from point A to B with very little room for exploring or side tacking since the sections 
 which include vehicles have a distinct track. Control of the vehicles is solid and reacts in accordance 
 to the games physics. Half Life 2 baths itself with the use of physics. Almost everything reacts 
 to the your movement of the environment. Simple things such as planks creating pathway to items 
 on a shelf, all react to external manipulation. With the heavy use if physics throughout the game, 
 it wasnt a surprise that Valve choose to use physics for all of its puzzles. Even though Valve 
 was able to strike gold with its level design, weapons and physics, it missed with the AI. The 
 AI for the most frequently encountered enemy (the Combine) is very weak. For human soldiers, they 
 were a bit dull but theyre very accurate. Later on in the game, you will encounter stronger the 
 Combine, which are just as dull but are harder to kill because of stronger armor and more powerful 
 weaponry. The non-human enemies AI on the other hand, was quite acceptable and really added more 
 tension to the game than the Combine. Half Life 2 greatness comes from its compilation of its parts 
 with weld together nicely. 
  
  Graphics:-
  With new games, comes the expectation of mind-blowing graphics and to a large degree, Half Life 
 2 doesnt disappoint. The level design is rich in geometry and texture detail that surpasses most 
 games of this genre. Normal mapping, real-time shadowing, shaders and realistic lighting creates 
 the eye candy that would suffice any gamer. The lighting in Half Life 2 scatters realistically 
 and creates realistic soft shadows that are present in real life. This is one of the main reasons 
 Half Life 2 looks so great and it also adds to the games immersion. Even though the game looks 
 spectacular, it falls victim to its own greatness especially with the outside environments that 
 is tarnished with washed out textures for geometry that decorates the background. In addition to 
 that, some areas looks unpolished especially the places, which are covered with radioactive goop, 
 which looks awfully, flat.
  
  Sound:-
  Half Life 2 has some very impressive and believable voice acting that is on par with the voice 
 acting of other great games. The sounds effects of guns, explosion, footsteps, creatures and ambient 
 sounds are all excellent. Even the background noise and sound of announcement added to the immersion 
 of the game. The games music also faded in at the right time adding to the overall feel of the 
 game.
  
  Beefs:-
  Even though the game implemented physics wonderfully, at times it felt a bit to blatant and almost 
 like a physics tech demo. The frequent placement of barrels stuck out like sore thumb, bringing 
 down the overall realism of the game. Grenades were to unpredictable since they took a tad too 
 long to explode and bounces quite a lot. The vehicle part of the game was drawn out a bit too much 
 and shouldve been shorter but the second time through it isnt as bad. There are moments in the 
 game where the autosave does a really bad job, in that it sometimes saves in the middle of a battle. 
 The autosave also causes the game to stutter each time it the attempts to save. Fellow comrades 
 sometimes get in the way and theyre unrealistically replaced. You often wonder, How the hell 
 did they get here? Some scripted sequences are too obvious and in some cases it can lead to spawning. 
 Lack of multiplayer with single player content definitely affects the value of the game. A simple 
 deathmatch would atleast give gamers a chance to dual with the gravity gun.
  
  Conclusion:-
  Half Life 2 was able to accomplish being a great successor to the original and 
 shouldnt disappoint anyone who was anticipating a sequel to Half Life and not the Holy Grail of 
 gaming. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dctrjons
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2004 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, I loved HL. But I think I like HL a lot better than I like HL2. People say that 
 the game is boring and I somewhat agree. Although it's not cookie-cutter like Halo (2) there are 
 times where the gameplay feels a little stale. It's hard to describe what it is but to me HL had 
 you in a different situation tactically all the time and you had to adapt to new maps and situations... HL2 
 is missing that it almost feels like a rail shooter with a ton of freedom. 
  
  I don't feel the drive to get anywhere in HL2 more than wanting to see what's next. I don't like 
 when I have the goal of playing the game instead of playing a character who has a certain goal... I 
 have no clue what Gordon's goal is. It's always to meet someone somewhere but it never works out... it 
 gets tiring after a while.
  
  I like the vehicles and I don't like them. The whole riding a vehicle to avoid combat just isn't 
 my style... my friends love it. I'll just chalk it up to personal style. I found the 'boss' fight 
 with the helicopter eye-rolling.
  
  I love the visual style of the game, kind of dark comic book feel. They didn't try to make things 
 too realistic, just stylistc. I find the automatic weapons annoyingly inaccurate even with short 
 bursts, the other weapons are fun.
  
  Physics is fun and can lead to some very cool unscripted events when fighting several creatures 
 with objects laying around.
  
  Ragdolls are well done, I found only one instance where a body took an unrealistic stance. It's 
 amazing what non scripted death sequences add to tension... in HL you can tell immidiately a dead 
 headcrab from a live one... not in HL2. Find myself spending an extra round or two in corpses... JIC.
 
  
  Overall... worth the price I had fun and will play it again. I like CS and will enjoy that... as 
 soon as the DM gets going and my friends remake their MOH, HL maps for HL2 this is going to be 
 THE game of our LAN parties.
  
  D3 is a distant memory for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyBabySitter
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 1, 2004 7:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Just plain fun. I only wish there was more. Picking up stuff with the default E button is cool. 
 Picking up stuff with the Gravity Gun is crazy (in a good way) .
  
  Graphics
  
  When I started the game for the first time, I couldn't believe how amazing it looked. By the time 
 I got to the end, I was even more amazed.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is great. Every action sounds right. The music is great, but only as background music, 
 nothing particularly memorable.
  
  Value
  
  Not only do you get a great single-player game, but you get Counter-Strike Source along with it. 
 Counter-Stike has always been one of the top multiplayer shooters as far as gameplay goes. Now, 
 because of Source, it looks great too. But there's more. As of Nov. 30th, you'll also get Half-Life 
 2: Deathmatch and the Source SDK. So not only is there even more multiplayer options, but you can 
 make and edit your own maps.
  
  Tilt
  
  The only problem now is that I want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crassus1
Rating: 4.9
Date: Nov 30, 2004 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Very easy to review this game. Shovelware. That's it. Too short, all glitz (eye candy) , game play 
 is minimal. Just imagine an updated version of Doom and you have this steaming pile of shovelware. 
 Nothing new, except for graphical detail, but if you want gameplay, look elsewhere. Like its' inspiration, 
 Doom, it is an FPS that gives you some missions and dialog. Other than that, and naturally the 
 beautiful grpahics, the game is not worth investing in. If you do, you'll be trading it in at EB 
 within a few days. I finished it in less than twenty hours of game play. Pretty sad if you ask 
 me. I would happily trade grpahics for gameplay any day of the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leunam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2004 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The game, though on a path, makes you feel part of the world, even more so than Far Cry. I compare 
 it to Far Cry because it is the only other FPS that can truly stand up to HL2. And though Far Cry 
 has a great physics engine, HL2 has one even better and with more interaction. This is one great 
 way of it bringing you into the world but it's not the only way. The best character renditions 
 and facial expressions you would ever find in-game are found in this game. 
  Far Cry does seem to offer something thing this game does't, atleast not as much, and that is freedom 
 of movement. Far Cry truly made you feel as if you were in a real place, due to it's smooth transitions 
 from indoor to outdoor environments, and how vast those outdoors could be.
  Overall, HL2 does what it set out to do, stay true to it's roots, but spice things up with evolution 
 of great technological feats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __barr__
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 30, 2004 3:37 am PT
Review:  Imagine a game where you would be awakening somewhere, alone, only to discover
  that you are in the middle of nowhere, lost in a city controlled by unseen powers. A game where 
 you could make choices... ?, explore... ??, work to get money... ???, engage in TV shows... ????, 
 meet and talk with AI bots that would actually do something of their time and tell story related 
 things to keep you immersed... ????? Yes, you are right! I'm not talking about Half Life 2.
  
  I'm talking about Flashback and it's been out for ten years now. But the most important thing 
 is that Flashback actually was an entertaining game to play. With a fair enough storyline that 
 would unwrap correctly at a good pace. And games like Flashback are many or, at least, used to 
 be many.
  
  Half Life 2 on the other hand? Been there, done that, even better and years ago. Is THAT the game 
 with a revolutionary gameplay? Uh? Ah? Oh... Yeah, if you've only ever played Daikatana it might 
 be.
  
  Running in the sewers of some spooky town with absolutely no goals for hours, in a succession of 
 tunnels that tries to act like there was a kind of diversity or choice in the player progression 
 is not my idea of entertaining. Neither is the fact of "talking" to one-liner bots when I've been 
 starving for the story to unfold for hours while killing the same single enemy over and over.
 
  
  In HL2 you just run straight on between two walls. Shoot the bad guys. Meet your typical
  mid-80's 
 platformer puzzle dumbly moved to 3d, and repeat. The level design is absolutely prehistoric. Fanboyz 
 relax, I'm not talking about the modding skills of Valve developers I'm talking about ENTERTAINEMENT, 
 VARIATIONS of pace and feeling of immersion through CHOICE. HL2 levels are for the most part quite 
 small (there's a good share of loading but it's fast and transparent so absolutely no problems 
 there) but you are sure to run them from A to B and through every small bit of polygon in it cause 
 they're just mazes and in some levels you just wonder where to go next. Oh... joys of the pre-80's 
 platformer level designs.
  
  The surroudings are as interesting as the holiday photo session your buddy inflicted on you the 
 last time he came back from "whatever mid-sized ghetto city". Except that his photo session was 
 much more interesting since it was real life with real people in it. I guess that's the price to 
 pay for realism (?) . Then again NO, I'm sure it's not. And even if the graphics are great (but 
 nowhere awesome, partly thanks to the lack of imagination put in it) they basically just add to 
 the frustration of not being able to explore anything.
  
  The "famous" physic puzzles are stupid. I mean, physics, ultra-realistic, indredible AI, "terrific" 
 game and there you come: In front of a 1m40 tall wall. Instead of raising your weak geek little 
 arms to get past the obstacle like ANY geek would do in "real" life, you just pick up bricks around 
 to lift up a seesaw so that you can jump from the top of it over the wall. DAMN! Havok can do that! 
 Amazing game! May I remind you that you're supposed to be chased by all armed forces in town and 
 that they are right on your back? Well at least they were everywhere in the previous screen, 5 
 meters away from the place you're stuck into playing with bricks...
  
  My 3 hours of playing can be resumed to this:
  - It's fairly good looking, I was expecting a 
 lot more though, DoomIII was much more visually challenging and gorgeous, not to mention they had 
 some creative artists involved.
  - It's a boring city in a boring landscape plus I've already seen that movie.
  - Will some  
 finally explain to me what's my goal? Who I am? Where can I buy a beer?
  - Okay, it's butt-boring to look at. And I've killed so many FPS AI in my life that I'll just run 
 to the next cutscene in hope someone finally expose to me what the situation is.
  
  (3 hours later)
  - It's even more boring, not even good looking anymore because there is absolutely 
 NO variations in the setting and I STILL don't know what I'm supposed to do except "goooing over 
 there! Quick!".
  - I finished Halo (very good past the first slow level) , DoomIII but there's no way I'm going to 
 finish HL2, even with the god mode, I'm that bored of it already.
  
  And what about those freaking fighters? Aren't they supposed to be fighting too? Why is that the 
 only thing they can say is:
  
  - "Go over here!"
  - "Quick, over there!"
  - "Run fool!"
  - "Good luck there!"
  
  Why don't you just come with me mister top-notch AI? 
 Incredible gameplay? Why can't I grab your neck and beat the crap out of you so that you make me 
 want to play by saying ANYTHING interesting to me... "The freeeeemmaaan will acceptt this weeeaponnn 
 orr greatly sufferrr in his queeest", OH COOL MAN I'VE GOT THAT CHOPPER GUN! FINALLY! D4Z g4M3's 
 R0X0RRRZZZ!111
  Better play Freedom Fighters, a more modest but incredibly better GAME than this.
  
  HL2 was 
 overhyped. It's deceptive and would be even if it had not been expected that much. I believed it 
 would make the FPS genre come one step out of the prehistoric age where it stands since Castle 
 Wolfenstein. But HL2 definitively is a step backward from Halo.
  
  People claiming on every forum that HL2 is the best game ever should double their number of played 
 games by playing at least 1 more title (and no HL: Source does not count as a new game, neither 
 completing Painkiller in hell mode does) . Truly make yourself a favor and play another genre instead 
 of waiting for the messiah when it's obviously not coming. There's already so many challenging 
 and entertaining good games
  out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avaker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2004 12:58 am PT
Review:  Gordon Freeman may be a pawn in the G-mans universal chess board, but hes definitely king of 
 the PC FPS. This experience can hardly be called a game. Its more like an action movie that you 
 experience. The entire 18 hours it took to strike down the Combine from my trusty crowbar to the 
 gravity gun on steroids, I was entranced and enthralled and whoa-ed in on this rollercoaster 
 called Half Life 2.
  
  First off, the story wasnt at all disappointing, as many may lead you to believe. I think the 
 premise of this sci-fi tale is wrapped in a bigger than me feeling. Although I was frustrated 
 at not getting straight answers to the questions about the whos and whys on the G-Man, the Combine, 
 the relationship with the Variguants, and a host of other quizzicals, I knew that I had a great 
 impact on the part of this world that I did know about. Having a grab-you-by-the-throat cliffhanger 
 at the end doesnt constitute a poor ending for me. It just makes me thirst for a Half Life 2 expansion 
 pack. (By the time HL3 rolls onto 3 Blu-Ray disks, Ill probably be too old and have kids and wont 
 have enough money for PC w/the min. requirements of a 14 Ghz processor and 6 terrabytes of memory 
 and an $800 vid card.) However, if HL3 doesnt answer the questions for this mythos, I may have 
 to change my mind about the not at all disappointing comment.
  
  The greatest (if you could call it that) quirk I had with the game were the extended vehicle 
 sequences. After what seemed to be an hour of hovering around the canals, I was definitely ready 
 for some solid sure footed action. Nevertheless, even the most mundane vehicle moment was abundantly 
 more interesting than a majority of moments in most any other shooter. Aside from my Mommy are 
 we there yet? complaints, the pacing was excellent. The action was consistently tense and exciting. 
 Half Life 2 is the best game you can play in this genre. May the Free-man return for a final episode 
 of mystery and butt kicking.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 29, 2004 11:46 pm PT
Review:  A previous reviewer has covered in excellent detail many of the points that I was going to raise, 
 so you might say "why review the game?". The answer is as much in rebellion against the fanboy 
 twaddle that comprises many other reviews on this board. Words and phrases such as "revolutionary", 
 "best PC game ever" seem to be common. Yet Half Life 2 really is none of these.
  
  It IS a really good game, no doubt about it. But it also has some significant flaws, which are 
 similar to those seen in other, older games, but which in the case of these titles earned the game 
 castigation by many reviewers. I can't help but feel that many reviewers of Half Life 2 have just 
 got caught up in the froth and hype and may not even have played the game.
  
  So - good things:
  
  1. Graphics - Direct X 9.0 and new engine seem to have done the trick, 
 runs well at high resolutions, facial rendition in particular is a big step forward.
  
  2. Sound - excellent - generates both very strong spatial awareness of noise but the quality is 
 top notch too
  
  3. Level design - this goes in both good and less good, since initially many levels seem outstandingly 
 atmospheric..... but as time goes by the monotony and repetitive nature of encounters becomes, well, 
 a bit tedious.
  
  4. Creatures/things - all look very impressive, detailed and imaginative
  
  Less good things:
 
  
  1. Level design - while the graphics quality is undoubtedly top notch, what's been done with it 
 really isn't. Levels are great to start off with but struggle to get above the monotonous after 
 you've establishe the look and feel in the first 5 minutes of play. Outdoor citiscapes may be OK 
 in principle but are nowhere near as atmoshperic as the wrecked Black Mesa facility in the first 
 iteration of the game. Graphics as an exercise in game programming are, I'm sure, great for programmers 
 but really don't in themselves make a good game. Oh yes and if I'd wanted to buy a race/driving 
 game I would have done - the boat sequence is fine to start out with, but after the nth gate to 
 open, jump to navigate, helicopter/bomb to dodge it became bloody tedious. It just goes on and 
 on and on.............
  
  2. Annoying load times between comparatively small level sub segments - interestingly ion Storm 
 got casigated for this with Deus Ex 2 and (to a lesser extent) the most recent Thief - yet no-one 
 seems bothered in HL2. One of the best examples of reviewers blinded by hype with ths game - the 
 intra-level loads are NOT short or periodic. They are hugely slow, frequent and have a major impact 
 on the flow of the game, often occuring when you in mid pursuit.
  
  3. Physics engine - why oh why oh why does everyone get so excited about "physics engines"? To 
 date almost all have fallen into the range between dismal failure and disappointing and this one 
 really is only just better than that. The physics of objects simply isn't anywhere near realistic 
 in this game. Things are too light, they seem to float in front of you when you're holding them 
 and while i don't mind empty bottles etc falling over if you brush against them, wooden boxes really 
 shouldn't. Pilling things up to weigh things down and using bouyant barrels to lift a bridge is 
 all well and good but overall I really don't find the physics engine adds anything to immersiveness 
 or beleivability, but instead detracts from them. Again great for programmers to admire as a step 
 forward but not really much benefit for the game.
  
  So - technologicaly clever, probably a big step forward, but as an exercise in game design (and 
 after all most play a game of this type for its content, plot and story flow, not to admire their 
 graphics card at full chat) , rather average. Which is a shame because the original, even without 
 the clever technology of the latest version, was everything that reviewers said it was - quite 
 brilliant.
  
  Now if we could have had Deus Ex level of plot detail and atmosphere with the implementation of 
 the HL2 graphics engine, combined with the skills of someone who actually knew how to design levels 
 - that really would produce a game that would be worth 6 years wait.
  
  Sadly, this one really wasn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmatta
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2004 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best First Person Shooter to date. Graphics are great. Sounds are great. Best 
 gameplay in a FPS ever. Shame it only got an 9.2. Its better than Halo 2. This game is the performance 
 benchmark for all FPS. If it aint better than Half Life 2 then theres no point releasing it. Shame 
 the loading times are quite long and installing it is a fiddle. But its still the best FPS. Maybe 
 this game is a touch over rated. But nothing is any better. The only thing coming out that could 
 be better is either BLACK or Timesplitters 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swazinacker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2004 11:37 am PT
Review:  Play the game on hard for the first run through, you won't be disappointed. With a fairly high 
 end system this game is a dream. I run it maxed out, and I can't believe how fantastic everything 
 is. Not only are the graphics pristine, the sound flawless, the music well timed and fitting tempo; 
 but the storyline is immersive, wonderful, creative, and addictive. I love the feel of the game, 
 the general idea is eerie and just keeps you guessing the whole game through. Never have I rated 
 a game 10 before. This title deserves it. 
  Absolutely fantastic. 15 thumbs up. Way to go Valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawrMaster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2004 4:51 am PT
Review:  There is nothing much too say about this game, except for it being amazing! With counter-strike 
 source included, it makes it even better then better. Two words "It Roxorz"
  You are definitely guaranteed hours and hours of pure fun entertainment! This game is a definite 
 buy! It so good, its worth buying a new computer and a new graphic card so you can run it. It got 
 a couple of words for all you people who don't like this game, "SHAME ON YOU!", and many more words/phrases. 
 If it was possible I would give it an even higher rating!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punker_Gamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2004 3:04 am PT
Review:  6 years now, and here it is, Half-Life 2. First of all, this game is jampacked with hours of fun 
 gameplay that will have you hooked for weeks and months. The Single-Player experience is compelling 
 and addictive. The story is gripping, the environments are beautiful and fun to shoot baddies in. 
 You get many weapons and fimiliar sound effects that bring you back to the day! You'll find a very 
 fun and entertaining roller coaster ride in the single-player part of Half-Life 2. To me, I must 
 say that Half-Life 2 is just about perfect.
  4 years now, and here it is, Counter-Strike: Source. This is the multi-player part of HL2 and is 
 extremely addictive, and fun. It's basically your normal CS with 8426589374 times the better graphics, 
 same maps, but with many new environmental twists. Each map is very fimiliar with the same format 
 but has very nice backgrounds, objects, and lighting effects. Most likely you've played CS before 
 if you own a PC so you know how the gameplay is. Still de_ and cs_ maps and gametypes. It would 
 have been nice to see a multiplayer piece from HL2 itself instead of sticking CS source as HL2's 
 multiplayer, but CS source is a very very good edition to Half-Life.
  All in all, Half-Life 2 is near perfection without a flaw, just could have had a little bit more, 
 but hey, I'm not complaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 29, 2004 2:26 am PT
Review:  In 1998, Valve Software revolutionized the first-person shooter genre with Half-Life. The scripted 
 in-engine cutscenes, combined with a seamless and (for the most part) believable gameworld, provided 
 players with the most immersive and pulse-pounding action that had been seen to date on the PC.
 
  
  Now, six years -- and a few delays -- later, Valve has released the highly-anticipated Half-Life 2. 
 Is Half-Life 2 all it's cracked up to be? Well, yes and no...
  
  Half-Life 2 picks up some time after the first game. It is not clear what Gordon Freeman has been 
 up to since joining the mysterious stranger, but in the meantime, Earth has been overrun by the 
 Combine, an oppressive alien regime. What's more, all humans have been corraled into sprawling 
 slums where lawlessness runs rampant, and the hopes of escape are dim. In addition, it appears 
 that the tales of Freeman's struggle through Black Mesa has become the stuff of legends, and a 
 source of everlasting hope... something that has made Freeman marked for death.
  
  You begin your adventure in the heart of City 17, with little exposition. Before you know it, you're 
 thrust into the action, and once you step into your familiar HEV suit, it's deja vu all over again.
 
  
  In many ways, Half-Life 2 stays fairly close to the conventions of the original, although there 
 are a few notable departures. Once again, the camera always demonstrates the perspective of Gordon, 
 and all cutscenes are produced by the game's new Source engine. Also, the expansive game world 
 is one continuous experience, with each section blending into the next with only a short load time 
 here and there.
  
  While Half-Life 2's gameworld is certainly consistent, and oftentimes very believable, much of 
 the game takes place in bland, open-air environments. While this lends itself to expansive journeying 
 that covers a lot of ground, the game lacks a great deal of the claustrophobia that made the first 
 game so gripping. Unlike Black Mesa's next-generation technology, rife with the constant hum of 
 machines, City 17's landscape is barren and decidedly low-tech. It's a completely different atmosphere -- and 
 intentionally so -- but it's just not as exciting as exploring Black Mesa.
  
  In fact, part of the game's barren design begets some very uneven pacing. Eschewing the almost 
 constant barrage of enemies you encountered in the first game, much of Half-Life 2's combat comes 
 in fits and starts, as in 20 minutes of exploration with not a soul around, followed by a five-minute 
 firefight, followed by 5 minutes of desolation, then a 30-second shootout. It's almost as if the 
 designers couldn't choose between a physics-based exploration title and a run-and-gun shooter. 
 In fact, it almost seems as if the game were designed by two different teams, each with a different 
 gameplay scheme in mind, not by a team working for a cohesive whole.
  
  Speaking of the physics aspect of the game, perhaps the most highly-touted feature of Valve's new 
 Source engine is the ultra-realistic physics engine, which gives everything in the gameworld a 
 realistic amount of mass and momentum. For some reason, it seems that every reviewer has been drooling 
 over this aspect of the game, but honestly, it's one of the weakest and most frustrating aspects 
 of the game in my opinion.
  
  Yes, it is cool to use buoyant objects to lift a brigde. Yes, it is cool to knock a supporting 
 beam out from under a platform to wipe out a bunch of enemies. And yes, the game's gravity gun 
 is highly innovative. But, the physics engine goes too far. Jump the wrong way onto a stack of 
 boxes you just spent two minutes stacking up, and the thing comes crashing down. Picking up objects 
 strangely has them floating in the air in front of you, with no hand holding them, and when you 
 hit a surface such as a doorjamb, the item's orientation gets twisted. It's all a bit goofy-looking, 
 and way overdone.
  
  Dare I draw the comparison, but a lot of the gameplay that people are cheering (desolate landscapes, 
 infrequent fighting, and physics so "realistic" that they're absurd) are the same things that were 
 jeered in the forgettable Jurassic Park game Tresspasser. I simply don't understand that what sucked 
 in the late 1990s would suddenly be considered cool today, when the implementation is not much 
 better.
  
  If you're looking for a much better implementation of realistic physics, look to last year's Max 
 Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne. It used realistic physics to provide some incredibly amazing sequences, 
 but knew when to tone it down so that the device never got overused or out-of-hand.
  
  To continue the rant: strangely, though countless advances have been made in gaming since 1998, 
 it would seem that the artificial intelligence in Half-Life 2 is actually a step back from that 
 in the original. The Combine forces don't seem nearly as adept at using teamwork to flush you out 
 as the marines in the original game. Seeing as how the first game's AI was truly remarkable, it 
 makes the sequel's inferior AI all the more disappointing.
  
  Graphically, Half-Life 2 succeeds, although again, I think some critics have been unfairly overkind. 
 The Source engine is great, and the DirectX 9 effects are superb, providing arguably the best-looking 
 water ever seen in a game. The facial animation is nice, but equivalent work has been seen in games 
 using Ubisoft's Jade engine. The remainder of the game, from architecture to the high-res textures 
 looks a lot like the Max-FX engine that powered the aforementioned Max Payne 2. While this is all 
 that could be expected from an engine that was designed for release a year ago, there are some 
 notable omissions, such as robust dynamic light sourcing and soft lighting that would have made 
 the gameworld even richer.
  
  In the sound department, Half-Life 2 shines. The voice acting is superb, the ambient noise is pitch-perfect, 
 and the music, like in the first game, augments the action at just the right time. The weapons 
 all sound appropriately powered, and the enemy sounds are downright creepy, especially when fighting 
 in the dimly-lit streets of Ravenholm, and in the run-down prison area. While there are some areas 
 that seem to use some EAX reverb, the effects are not consistent, as there are areas where you 
 would expect some echoes that there aren't. There's also a fair amount of aural window-dressing 
 including a very cool effect where your ears ring and you become temporarily deaf when an explosion 
 erupts too close by. However, the ringing sound is a bit artificial, and could have been better-implemented.
 
  
  All in all, Half-Life 2 is a good game that will definitely give you your money's worth. But, it 
 must be known that the game breaks no new ground whatsoever, so be wary of other reviewers who 
 try to convince the reader that certain game elements are new to Half-Life 2. This is all recycled 
 stuff, some of it not so great, packaged in a well-designed story arc. No matter how you decide 
 to buy it, you'll get your money's worth, but it won't change your perspective the way the miraculous 
 original did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2004 1:38 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is the best singleplayer fps for the pc since half life 1. It feels like half life 
 and is just as inovative, with the gravity gun and expertly executed physics playing a huge role 
 in most of the game. The gameplay is awesome, anyone who plays this game will have fun with it 
 from start to end, i cant think of any game besides half life 2 that is at least a little tedious 
 by the resolution of the story. Half life 2 blows far cry, halo 2, and doom 3 away in terms of 
 fun-ness. Physics arent just there for show- they are an amazingly important part of the experience. 
 Everywhere u look there will be exploding barrels, props held up by strings, razors, car parts, 
 etc to fling at the hundreds of unique enemies you meet throughout the game. And these enemies 
 have awesome AI and are brilliantly programmed. The zombies will scare you as they should, the 
 combine overwatch will use grenades and flank techniques to flush you out of hiding places, and 
 the ant lions will charge you relentlessly. Enemies find a way around objects to find you and will 
 fling objects at you in their way (for example, if you close a door on persuing zombies, they will 
 leap onto the rooftop and come through the skylight and toss barrels at you lying on the floor) . 
 The AI in half life 2 feel like actual living things, a trait not found in most other video games 
 besides halo.
  
  The graphics in half life 2 are awesome, but not perfect. The dynamic lighting isnt as great as 
 doom 3, and objects dont look as sharp as they could have been. However, nothing except doom 3 
 and maybe far cry really match the graphics and immersion found in half life 2. The physics really 
 contribute to the graphics as well. Objects will fly in the air when grenades are flung back and 
 forth, its really amazing.
  
  The sound in half life 2 rocks. The music is weak, but everything else is perfect. The guns and 
 explosions sound chillingly powerful, the zombies' screams and cries will scare you, sounds will 
 drown out as objects move away from you, etc. Going underwater will drown out sounds as it does 
 in real life, even the voice overs sound different as you move farther away from the person or 
 dive into water.
  
  The singleplayer game is pretty darn long for a first person shooter. It should last normal people 
 around 15 hours, although i beat the game in only 12 hours on normal mode because I am amazingly 
 skilled ;) , and battles almost always play out differently because of the AI so the game is worth 
 playing a second and even third time. However, there is no HL2 deathmatch, only counterstrike: 
 source (a remake of counterstrike 1.6 in source engine) , so the awesome gravity gun that takes 
 advantage of the game's physics is reserved for singleplayer only : ( . CS: S is fun, but if you 
 have played CS for years like most Half life veterans then CS: S might get a little boring after 
 a few hours. Fortunately, the community will start churning out mods like coca cola cans once the 
 Half life 2 SDK is released, and CS: S will be updated with more maps and skins soon enough, so 
 the value of half life 2 is superb. For around $60 over steam, you get hl2, cs: s, a remake of half 
 life 1, and day of defeat: source (which hasn't been released yet) , plus all of the old half life 
 games available on steam if you haven't purchased them already. That's pretty ownage huh?
  
  As for Steam, the online platform that people must verify/ download half life 2 through, it 
 is crap for launching widely popular games. Utter crap. I hope valve doesn't have a preload and 
 verification for half life 3, because the steam servers could not handle the release of half life 
 2. It took me and many others two or more hours of logging into steam for it to finally work so 
 we could play half life 2, since you can not play it offline without first verifying it. This gets 
 rid of piracy and warez, sure, but its a burden to all the people who bought hl2 legally with those 
 stupid connection problems.
  
  Half life 2 is awesome and well worth the hype, buy it retail or through steam now!!
  
  P. S. 
 Trust me below :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delahaya
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2004 1:33 am PT
Review:  I can't get over just how good Half-Life 2 really is. There are really several "minigames" involved 
 due to the changing locales, foes, and whether you're on foot or vehicle. The graphics are excellent 
 and forgiving to older systems, yet reward newer systems. My Athlon 64 system with a Radeon 9800 
 pro ran the game at 1280 x 1024 on my 18" LCD perfectly. I even had everything set to high, anisotropic 
 to 8x, but no AA. One especially good point is the integration of the physics model - simply the 
 best yet. You also become attached to the characters. 
  
  The sense of menace and being hunted in the first part of the game in city 17 is palpable. I loved 
 the scenary on the highway 17 section, and the water on the boat section. 
  
  Using the shotgun to knock headcrabs right off their victims is so cool. I already want to know: 
 when is half-life 3 (or half-life 1.5) coming out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monclova_1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2004 12:35 am PT
Review:  The Best Game I have ever played............
  
  I Have been playing pc games a long time and this is the best that I have ever played.
  The Best 
 Graphics, sound ,gameplay .
  
  If a have to compare to other games like:
  
  Doom 3 series
  Unreal Tournament series
  Far Cry 
  Painkiller
  Medal of Honor series.
 
  
  I say that Half-life 2 is 4 points above every score that gamespot has given to any FPS.
  
 
  This is a masterpiece And I just want to say Buy this Game.
  
  This kind of Games take a lot time to developed but y prefer to wait a little bit longer 
  and 
 have games likes this.
  
  And Please buy the game dont downloaded ilegaly.
  Games like this deserved to be bought..
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smghottie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2004 12:31 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 is simply the best first person shooter i have ever played. I have far cry, battlefield 
 series, doom 3, chaser, and deus ex, and they are all outshined by half life 2. When i first played 
 far cry, i kept thinking, nothing can even come close to matching this, until hl2 came out. Its 
 got better everything, graphics, sound, you name it, everything except the ai. But the weakness 
 in Far cry, which was rated as a 9.2 i believe, was the physics, and the fact that you couldn't 
 even break a box., half life 2 has the most incredible physics in any game to date. To give this 
 game a 9.2 is absurb, its perfect, you need to compare it to other games to realize that... buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob23090
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2004 5:23 pm PT
Review:  First of all, from the rust on the broken safety rails to sand ripples in shallow water, the graphics 
 are downright amazing. The object physics were fun and provided a unique perspective to the gaming 
 experience, especially when manipulated with the gravity gun. 
  The environments were quite varied, from huge outdoor landscapes to detailed indoor environments 
 with shorting electrical cables and swinging lights. The environments are enjoyable enough that 
 I would like to explore the graphic details without the distraction of having to concentrate on 
 constantly shooting something.
  With the exception of the gravity gun, the weapons choices should be familiar to anyone that plays 
 fps shooters. The enemy artificial inteligence is better than in most games, but becomes quite 
 predictable after a while.
  I'm left though, with very mixed emotions about the experience. It took about 20 minutes to load, 
 but about 1 hour and 20 minutes to authenticate through the "Steam" server (with a cable connection) . 
 It took up to five minutes each time I started it for "Steam" to load and do whatever kind of voodoo 
 it had to accomplish before the game itself started loading. I'm sympathetic with Valve's need 
 to protect intellectual property, but that was ridiculous. I'm a paying customer with a limited 
 amount of leisure time. I am not working for the company and am not willing to give up my leisure 
 time in order to get permission from Valve every time I want to start the game. If someone makes 
 a game difficult for me to play, I don't get as much enjoyment out of it. 
  I also don't trust this "Steam" thing. How do I know what infomation they are collecting or if 
 I could end up with some trojan horse built off it.
  It was a beautiful and enjoyable game. The total experience though, was not a positive one, to 
 the point that I probably won't purchase anything with this type of authentication scheme again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd51
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2004 2:33 pm PT
Review:  As a sceptic I was ready to be disappointed after all of the hype surrounding HL2's development 
 and release. However, after playing and replaying the the game for hours on end, I can safely say 
 that HL2 lives up to, and surpasses the hype.
  Where (IMHO) as Doom 3 got worse/more boring as you progressed - I just wanted to get through D3, 
 not really PLAY it - Half Life 2 gets better and more interesting. 
  During HL2 you are having so much fun you don't want the different encounters to end... I didn't 
 mind replaying certain sequences, and purposely went back and replayed much of the game.
  As far as an immersive experience goes HL2 is fantastic as well, as the cut scenes add to, and 
 advance the story.
  Comparisons to D3 are inevitable especially since the two were released so close to each other. 
 So for those of you who loved D3 at first only to find that it was scary but repetitive and boring 
 after the first few hours, you won't be disappointed in HL2 as the game gets better as you go. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingMyro
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2004 8:30 am PT
Review:  Well, im not sure how many will read this (since its probably review #299 or so) but here goes. 
 First off know that I am usually more critical than your average gamer (blame it on short attention 
 span, or a good B. S. detector) . That being said heres my review. I also want to add this is purely 
 a review of the GAME, not of the ASININE Steam registering policy (which was so ridiculous and 
 took so long I came very close to returning Half Life before even playing it, it is unessecary, 
 and has managed to alienate a portion of gamers, BAD CHOICE!) I am not likely to heap paraise on 
 something that is crap regardless of what the majority review is but I have to say Half Life 2 
 simply blew me away. As soon as I booted it up I was impressed by the dark dystopian post apocolyptic 
 story line. It really dosent even try to explain what the He** is going on at first, which is great. 
 I love the feeling of being thrust into this similar yet totally alien situation and looking foreward 
 to figuring out exactly WHAT has happened exactly since the end of Half Life. I have grown so tired 
 of formulatic, serious, plot lacking shooters where its basiclly like "they are the bad guys, you 
 have to shoot/stop them, these are the good guys, they help you, what more plot do you need?" black 
 and white stories. Here they really instill kind of a paranoia feeling, and even at the final (awesome) 
 finale, and even after it over you are still left scrambling in your brain to make sense of it 
 all. Maybe im exaturating a little, its not exactly shakespere here but the plot is definantly 
 a highly polished high point of the game. I looked foreward to whats next (plotwise) far more than 
 what enemy or weapon I am going to see/get next, by far. Without giving anything away I will just 
 say you will be taken by the story as much as watching great movie (lord of the rings comes to 
 mind) . Part of this comes from the hollywood quality animation of the characters and thier facial/body 
 expressions. They behave EXACTLY like they should. Look deeply into Alyx's eyes when shes speaking 
 to you and youll see what I mean. Not only is it like shes talking to you, real emotions (from 
 simple to complex ones) are immediately expressed, its the closest i have ever come to feeling 
 like a NPC was alive. Whoever scripted thier emotions and (changing) behaviors was a real professional 
 and if I was making a game (or even a cg movie) I would want them on my payroll. I am really not 
 one to gush about games (I rated the new madden a 7.5) but this is just a well done game. One of 
 the most important features of Half Life 2 is the physics. Never have they been done like this. 
 I LOVED Far Cry, yet this physics system surpasses it entirely. It really makes the game. I have 
 grown SO TIRED of non physics. I mean like emptying a clip into a crate only to realize its not 
 a real object (i. e. indestructible) or firing a rocket at a rickety wooden scaffolding only to 
 see it explode across it with no effect. Lame, it totally destroys your suspension of disbelief. 
 This changes all that. This is the first game where most of my "what if?" experiments actually 
 worked the way they should (what if I fling this cinder block at that soldier, what if I fling 
 this bench at that wall, now what if I fling it at the wall corner instead? What if,, heheh.. I 
 use this SAW BLADE as a projectile?" The physics are all encompasing, surprising and amazing. They 
 arent perfect (many things are still indestructable) but a major leap over anything else. Just 
 try draping/flinging a mattress over.. well.. everything to see what im saying. Or for real fun fling 
 a paint can at a large intimidating boss creature, just seems a little less deadly with its entire 
 head and left side dripping with white Krylon huh? Or even take a little time off to play a simple 
 game of catch (heh) with the dog :) The weapons are for the most part standard FPS fare but a couple 
 really stand out (if you liked pinning enemies to the wall in Painkiller there is a very stylish 
 (one of my fav) weapons in HL2 that will make you chuckle. Could have been more or more varied 
 but this game is pretty balanced so it would mostly be just more, not better (although there is 
 a powerful smg type weapon that has too much random kick and makes it really hard to line up med/long 
 distance shots, but it is pretty powerful so I use it more like a shotgun type weapon) Also, small 
 max ammo or not a 357 is just a bada**s weapon anyway you slice it. I wont ruin it for you but 
 there is a weapon at the very end that although its only yours for a very small time is like a 
 gamers wet dream! Controlling your own squads (a few types in fact) is also simplified and sometimes 
 infrequent but rewarding. I remember restarting a check point many times with full health just 
 because an ally i liked died. I got over that near the brutal end though :) Anyway I know this 
 is running long so ill just say, I was fully prepared to pick this game apart (especially after 
 the maddeningly frustrating and intrusive registration process, I would rather let the hackers 
 win than pi*s all my loyal fan base off with this jump through hoops type process)
  At one low point (about hour 2 and a half) I vowed never to buy Valves games again no matter how 
 good. But I have to say its one of the most impressive and surely the most addictive games I have 
 palyed in a LONG time, possibly ever. The only flaws I guess I could mention are 1-the game stutters 
 at times (even on the best PC, I have a freakin monster) but Valve has admitted and vowed to patch 
 this, and 2-Once its beaten there isnt as much motivation to play again (although with cheats its 
 fun, try going to the beginning when your supposed to be unarmed, then give yourself a shotgun 
 and slaughter the enemy soldiers/bully boys while thier friends stand by doing nothing because 
 your "supposed" to be unarmed teheee) Otherwise a masterpiece truly. Everything it was expected 
 to be and far more -Josh Myers
  p. s. dont expect to reencounter the situations on the early videos, they were made up and not in 
 the game (no water creature that I encountered) however the game is actually BETTER than those 
 videos so no worries. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2004 3:56 am PT
Review:  I have just beaten the game and all i can say is that this is the greatest FPS ever created.
  No game even comes close to HL2. 
  
  To keep it short and sweet..
  Gameplay - You can literaly 
 pick up anything you see in the world (as long as its not to heavy) and throw it if youd like. 
 This creates soo many different solutions to problems in the game. For instance... There is an 
 enemy in a fortified position... you can either run out guns blazing (dm'rs) ... bank a grenade off 
 a wall and hope you connect... pick up a barrell (or whatever is available) and use it as a shield 
 as you move your way closer to him and then roll a grenade at him (u can roll or throw grenades) .
 
  
  Graphics - better than doom 3..... in most catagories
  
  Sound - very acurate. far off gun shots sound just like the ones you hear on cnn every night.
 
  
  Value - HL2's Multiplayer is Counter-Strike Source... no HL2 dm or mp... no gravity gun battles 
 with your friends . but i so hear that a mod team is making one. 
  
  The best part about HL2 comes from the modding community wich will really push the source engine 
 to the fullest.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radionesiac
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2004 3:40 am PT
Review:  Not much can be said that hasn't already. It's been a long wait. An anxious, nail-biting, hungry, 
 thirsty, excruciating wait. But it's worth it. Half-Life 2 is worth its weight in gold. Right out 
 of the box is what is undeniably, irrefutably the most beautiful, immersive, well-paced, exciting 
 first person shooter campaign in history; a downright, truly scary Orwellian world overrun by unseen 
 and (even to the end) , largely unexplained powers. It's beautiful. It's what gaming should be. 
 It's damn art, that's what it is. I dread to think what the mod community will do with this engine 
 five years down the line. Thanks, Valve. Thanks, Gabe. Job well done. 
  
  And the Gravity Gun! I mean, come on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joao_sousa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2004 3:16 am PT
Review:  Well, this is my first review, so forgive me if my english does not compete with the purists we 
 are used to read in gamespot. Bearing in mind that I'm not convinced that my review will influenciate 
 a larger community of people, mainly those who are very addicted to half life, and CS, I'll try 
 to stick to my point of view, and if one person agrees with I would be more than satisfied.
  
  Well, a good review has to have some structure. I'll start analyzing the prior aspects of the 
 game, never forgeting to point out some uncontornable flaws that my analitic spirit just couldnt 
 avoid.
  
  The gameplay is definitly interesting. In one way its easy, and has, of course, a short learning 
 curve. That evokes those ancient FPS, like the first half life, and there is a very obvious relation 
 of similarity to it. It's clever and well-built. Nothing to point at.
  
  The sound, that's well... one of the most well-accomplished aspects of the game. When u shoot, 
 or better, execute an enemy with a shotgun theres an inolvidable felling of pleasure. A feeling 
 that's created, brilliantly created by a well mixture of credible sound effects and a realistic 
 sense of sonority. But it does not breaks new ground. Not here and...
  
  ... not at a graphical level. Yes... unlike almost every review I put my eyes in, I didnt even have 
 to thought a bit that this game just couldnt compete with the great Doom 3. yes... it doesnt hold 
 a candle to the magnificient Doom 3. id's masterpiece really knows how to manipulate crucial thing 
 in an engine, offering the player a sensation of reality, where fantasy and reason meet, forming 
 an unforgetable world. Its basicly the form how both engines deal with lighting and shadow, Doom 
 3's engine does with perfectly. HL2's just cant demonstrated the player any of those new cards 
 possibilities. its very unfair, specialy for Valve, to compare their production with the one from 
 ID. the first time I experienced the game I felt that... some people should be ashamed of releasing 
 something that is, at a graphical level, so unpolished unlike Far cry and doom3.
  
  Kome on... does any of u agree with me? With the voice of good-sense, and ratioonal examination? 
 Trust me, then... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2004 2:23 am PT
Review:  Its hard to believe it, but after a long time, Half Life 2 finally found its way to PC gamers everywhere, 
 and it only took 5 years! Many people will be asking if Half Life 2 was worth the wait, and the 
 answer to that question is a resounding yes.
  
  The game picks up several years after the initial Black Mesa incident that was Half Life. and once 
 again, you as Gordon Freeman get to dust of your crowbar, fire up the HEV suit, and have a merry 
 little time. The game opens with the G-man telling you that your services are needed again and 
 "places" you back on earth to fight a 'freedom fighter' style war against the Combine, who are 
 devistating alien beings who have somehow managed to completely bring the world to its knees. The 
 Combine, for the most part, arn't exactly pushovers however, they'll tote a wide number of weapons 
 ranging from your typical SMG, a shotgun, and a very powerfull pulse rifle. This isn't to say that 
 all the weapons in the game are completely recycled weapons from Half Life 1, relativly early on 
 in the game you will recieve the Zero-Point Energy Field Manipulator (or Gravity Gun) which is 
 extremely fun to use, both by destroying enemies, or just having fun. the Gravity Gun basically 
 lets you pick up an object that has mass (such as a barrel or chair) and either move it around 
 the environment and drop it lightly or fire the object at a specific target, causeing massive damage 
 to that enemy.
  
  With all this fire power, your going to need something to use it on, and Half Life 2 makes no exception. 
 The combat in Half Life 2 is very enjoyable and slighly reminicient to Half Life 1. In the start 
 of the game, you'll basically get your old crowbar (no surprise there) and a pistol, your enemies 
 woun't exactly be super tough, they're simply your standard guard. Later on however, you'll come 
 across a tougher version of these guards. Your enemies in Half Life 2 wont always going to be human 
 however, you will end up facing these alien creatures named 'ant-lions' (who are basically warped 
 versions of ants... but the size of lions, go figure) who are just plain creepy, especially the 
 sound their wings make when they fly low to attack you, it will definatly send shivers down your 
 spin. New enemies include the Striders which are 40 foot tall walking tanks made to look like spiders. 
 needless to say, these behemoths arn't going to go down very easilly, luckilly however, you get 
 your trusty rocket launcher to turn them in to mince meat.
  
  One thing you'll notice directly from the start is Half Life 2s graphics. they are simply amazing, 
 possible even better than Doom 3s (simply because Doom 3s textures and other things look slightly 
 flat at times, but then again, thats just me) . to go along with the increadible look of the game 
 is some great characte models and many facial animations. During one of the games ingame cutscenes, 
 characters will react to one another, for example: one character might be angry with anothe NPC, 
 the angery character might lower their brow. An NPC might also show fear for example, such as when 
 a drop ship is nearing and you look at his face, you will destictly see a wide eyed person who 
 genuinly looks scared. The affect this gives of adds a lot of atmosphere to the game, and can be 
 at times, it can seem downright creepy, concidering that these characters arn't even real but they 
 sure seem like it at times. Sometimes you really care about the characters in the game rather than 
 pass them on as lifeless drones. Speaking of atmosphere, VALVe still manages to pull of tense cinematic 
 like events and gameplay in Half Life 2. As in Half Life 1, Gordon Freeman still dosn't talk nor 
 does the view ever shift from Gordons eyes to something external, Everything happens from Gordons 
 view.
  
  Another neat feature that is sported in Half Life 2 (and is also from Half Life 1) is that the 
 game is seemless, meaning that there are no levels, the whole game is a series of places an objects, 
 so basically your not going from one level to the next, your going from one place to the next. 
 Half Life 2 does the by incorporating vehicles in to the game. It is a very neat experience when 
 driving any of these vehicles, because you are litterally moving on to the next objective instead 
 of having some magical trasition from level to level. Even so when your driving down the streets 
 in the buggy, you dont really want to just simply get from point A to point B, your going to want 
 to explore and to see all that you can see. This is esspecially true during the buggy scenes. Along 
 the highway are many obsticals in your path but also, there are houses and other such complexs 
 which are basically all explorible and enterable. And after your through investigating, you can 
 hop in your car and drive off again.
  
  Some may argue that Half Life 2 feels or plays a bit too much like its predicesor, simply because 
 Half Life 2 has that same style of play. Concidering that its a sequle to a game that litterally 
 defined the FPS genre, chances are that the developers arn't going to change the style that much. 
 Half Life 2 may not completelly revolutionize the first person shooter world (as many people thought 
 that the other 2 big games, namilly Doom 3 and Halo 2 would) but it certainly has set the benchmark 
 for its use of physics in a game. Simply stated, Half Life 2s physics are remarkable, almost anything 
 in the world can be picked up with the gravity gun (other things that cant be picked up can usually 
 be joled by it) . 
  
  In the end, Half Life 2 is an extremely well put together game and since its part of a saga, there 
 isn't a lot of questions that get answered at the end of the game, but that aside, the game is 
 bound to be a success and the promise for many mods will definatly keep the community alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  skip to the summery if you dont want to read alot.
  
  now after a rigorus go through of city 17 (begining town) ravenholm (zombie infested town)
  highway 
 17 (waistland of combine soldiers) nirva prospect ( maximum security prison)
  and a citidel ( for me to know and you to find out) all to know the secrets and greatness that 
 is in this game. when you get off the trainride (reminicent of the original) you get ided oppressed 
 and taken for questioning your saved by barney (the cop fromt the first game) who works inside the 
 combine undercover. the physics engine is awe inspiring and amazing in every aspect. it creates 
 a sense of real life. now the graphics are perfect as you would imagine but some areas are not as 
 polished as you'd want it to be but otherwise its perfect. the sound is amazing and while the music 
 isnt as good as halo 2 it works really good as well as the movie like voice acting and animation. 
 now all you need to know is one thing now, and one thing only. the ending doesnt anser things and 
 makes clear were waiting another 6 years for half-life 3.
  
  the summery:
  
  the good: the sound is movie and oscar caliber, the package of counterstrike inside is a 
  bonus 
 and its the sequal to one of my favorite games of all time!!
  
  the bad: the graphics arent polished some areas and the ending could have bean better.
  
  overall: the 
 presentation and physics rendering are perfect as well as counterstrike source, and while the graphics 
 could be better [what the f#^$ was i thinking =p] they dont dissapoint. what we learned is valve 
 is officaly the best design team ever in gaming. buy it at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegorum
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2004 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I think the game-spot reviewer was correct giving Half Life 2 a 9.2 and nothing higher, and that 
 might have been a tad bit generous given the fact that Valve had 5 or 6 years to develop what eventually 
 became HL2. I was impressed with the game on almost every level. Sound and graphics were spot on. 
 The characters and the ease of the interface were seamless; however, the story line felt confusing 
 to me. For about three quarters of the game I didn't know why Freeman kept going forward. I felt 
 like my motivation (as Freeman) was vague overall as far as why I (Freeman) needed to do the things 
 he was doing to move through the game. While the struggle was entertaining I found myself wanting 
 a respite in the struggle where some other character would fill in the gaps Freeman obviously had 
 that would better explain the situation human-kind and Freeman found themselves in. In the First 
 Half Life it was pretty obvious that Freeman got caught up in an accident and he was just trying 
 to get himself out to save his skin and the plot got more complicated and interesting from there. 
 HL2 throws you in highly entertaining and engaging game without really cementing why your there... and 
 then you get to the end of the game and say "OHHHHHH" to yourself as I felt there is a simple answer 
 to my questions.
  The other thing I didn't enjoy, as far as game play, was when Freeman starts to acquire comrades 
 who you command. These war buddies got in my way more often than helped me and I found myself relieved 
 when they were inadvertently killed in some battle or another... only to later get slightly annoyed 
 when more showed up to start the process all over again. I think the Game FREEDOM FIGHTERS did 
 a much better job giving you troops to command from the same perspective without them getting in 
 your way and being very useful (and sometimes necessary) at the same time. HL2 doesnt do this 
 and I think I would have rather not had comrades at arms the way Valve incorporated them... but 
 they could improve on this concept and perhaps enhance a sequel at the same time by giving the 
 player more options than the two that you have at your disposal in HL2: go over there and come 
 over here) . This would need to be done without making unnecessary complications, so good luck Valve.
 
  Valve has made a great effort with HL2 and I have only mentioned, in detail, the parts I felt 
 need improvement. The rest of the game was great and its been a while that I have enjoyed playing 
 a game as much as I did this one. I only wish it had been twice as long and that I don't have to 
 wait another 5 or 6 years to play HL3. For the good stuff you are going to have to go and play 
 for yourself and I hope you play it a couple of times to really get your money's worth :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiquidAjax
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2004 6:13 pm PT
Review:  My review will be short, but too the point, this game is unbelievable. The amount of creativity 
 one can pour into each section of the game is pretty much endless and inventive. I have put about 
 8 hours into it and hasn't bored me for one minute, from the hydro type buggy, to the dune type 
 buggy the game's sci-fi theme with realistic physics and atmosphere has created a unique game that 
 reminds you of a movie. Everybody has been complaining about the sound skip, I honestly haven't 
 noticed it? I have a high end system, maybe that has something to do with it? 
  
  
  I could not get into half life 1, but this game just draws me in.... it draws me in to the point 
 that I want to get the original half life redone in the new engine, and try it out again. 
  
  
  Learning curve is quite easy, you get the controls of everything in the game down quite 
 fast thanx to good coding and simplicity. The lip synching and graphics are unbelievable and rival 
 doom 3's superb graphic engine.
  
  
  
  The replay value should be high for the reason that there is multiple ways to do things, such as 
 when you're in the buggy there are some parts where you can stop at houses to kill some of the 
 aliens or you can just run them over and blow past them, but if you stop and defeat them or sneak 
 up on them and kill them silently... you might get more ammo, health supplies, or something unique.
 
  
  
  Games like this are rare and should be praised so we do not forget what hard work and dedication 
 can bring us gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakerjack
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2004 9:27 am PT
Review:  Like most gamers, six years ago I was floored by the release of Half Life. The game was
  simply like no other game anyone had played before. The fact that you started the game
  by "going 
 to work", and the memorable tram ride drew you in like a sketch artist. The feeling of living within 
 a working, living world was never done so well. 
  
  
  Back to the present and long awaited (And delayed) Half Life 2 has finally arrived. First off I 
 would like to say that while Steam is a noble idea on valve's part; it simply is a barrier to getting 
 the game up and running right away. I went to my local Best Buy and they unfortunately didn't have 
 it. So I ordered it via Steam. First I couldn't log on, then after finally logging on, the Steam 
 servers informed me that they rejected my credit card and that I was going to be investigated for 
 credit card fraud. I tried again and the game was finally purchased. The long download transpired 
 and I was finally ready to play the game Ive waited six years for.
  
  I believe some companies learned a long time ago that it might be best to make a loading screen 
 have some sort of animation or dynamic to it (percentage meter, a status bar, etc.) so you know 
 if the game is actually loading and your computer hasnt crashed. Well after five minutes of waiting 
 through the load time, I reset my computer. I repeated the process, another five minutes. I left 
 it there for a good fifteen minutes until the Menu screen appeared. I promptly adjusted my Video 
 and Audio settings and the game crashed. Another ridiculously long load time later, I started the 
 game.
  
  After about fifteen seconds, the headache of getting the game up and running swiftly left my memory. 
 Just like last time you enter via a train. City 17 (think Warsaw Ghetto) was alive and kicking. 
 The first thing I noticed was the eerily realistic propaganda video. My eyes convinced me they 
 used F. M. V but I soon realized I was witnessing one of the greatest achievements ever in a video 
 game. The life like features and dead on lip-synch completely sucks you in like a Barnacle grasping 
 you from the darkness. I ventured around a little bit before following my fellow train riders, 
 and noticed a zombie using a broom. Were not in Kansas anymore set in. 
  
  Barney returns to your aid (hes been masquerading as a Combine soldier) and he informs you of 
 what is going on. You also get a nice nostalgic video link up with one of the scientists from the 
 original Half Life. This is where the actual game play begins. You immediately take advantage of 
 the new Physics technology. You have to stack two crates and jump out of a window.
  
  I cannot overstate how amazing the graphics in this game are. Are they as photo realistic as Doom 
 3? No. Do the graphics immerse you into this City-State and make you care about non-player characters? 
 Abso-freakin-lutely. The photo realistic characters you encounter throughout this game are so life 
 like that you care about these characters, you want to help them, you care about their cause (Even 
 though the game never truly explains why City 17 is in this state of affairs) .
  
  After getting your first mission briefing (and can I say how much Ive missed this type of briefing? 
 How sick are you of reading a text screen informing you of what your objectives are?) Barney hands 
 you the ole trusty crowbar and sends you on your way. Whats remarkable is you dont receive this 
 item until about an hour into the game. A full hour of listening, learning, and taking in the beauty 
 of the graphics. Normally this would seem to be a hassle, but not in this game, not at all. 
  
  Graphics obviously do not make a game. (Note Doom 3) . Level design and game play do. The overall 
 creative genius that went into these levels is what makes this game a truly remarkable achievement. 
 I have never been so eager to turn a corner and find out what new puzzle await me, or what new 
 strategy will I need to implement to get over that wall, or get past this roadblock. The levels 
 where you explore (more like run and keep shooting) through the building of City 17 are so amazingly 
 thought out that I couldnt imagine how long it might take to create one of these monstrosities 
 with a level editor. Walking through the halls of the Nova Prospect prison give you a feeling of 
 dread. The game can bring you from sheer enjoyment to terror (Ravenholm) as effectively as any 
 Oscar winning motion picture. This game is truly an interactive book, where you honestly believe 
 you are a hand in writing the next chapter.
  
  The much touted physics aspect of the game has been hyped since the game was officially announced. 
 I had my reservations. I figure what could physics truly add to game play? Well all I can say is 
 that any game in the future needs to add this type of function. My first wow moment was a basic 
 seesaw. You must take cinder blocks and weigh down the see saw to allow you to jump from said seesaw 
 onto a ledge. There are dozens of these types of physics puzzles throughout the game, and each 
 time I overcame one, I simply nodded my head in respect (to my monitor I guess) . The physics engine 
 really gets engaging when you play fetch with Dog. Trust me, youll enjoy it.
  
  The weapons in the game are pretty much a rehash from the first game. The two notable differences 
 are the gravity gun and the Overwatch Pulse Rifle. The gravity gun is simply amazing. The fact 
 that you can pick up just about anything within the game and throw it at something adds so much 
 replay value as well as game play depth, you simply have to use it to believe it. (The super gravity 
 gun you receive in the last mission also rocks) . The pulse rifle is also quite impressive. On my 
 5.1 speaker system at home, you could feel the bullets as they blasted out of the rifle. Unfortunately 
 you can only hold 60 rounds at one time, but this is one powerful weapon, so use it wisely. Another 
 interested weapon involves Ant Lions (in the Nova Prospect level) . You come under control of 
 Ant Lions (think Lion mixed with Ant J ) . These ferocious beasts follow you into combat like you 
 were General Patton himself, and they dont suffer from shellshock. They keep coming and fighting 
 for you until either you die, or the enemy is eliminated.
  
  The few flaws I found in the game involved the story and the squad system. First off there really 
 is no story. The G-Man tells you youre time has come again Mr. Freeman and you pretty much walk 
 along and come across characters who will explain some things to you. The game is pretty identical 
 to the first game in that there is a portal accident and you get a crowbar and go kick some bad 
 guy ass. Along the way youll meet up with Alyx (an amazing CG character) and her father, and youll 
 rescue her dad, then lose him, then lose Alyx, meet up with Alyx, rescue dad etc So the story 
 in this game is lacking. However it does not exactly detract from the overall game itself. It simply 
 makes you say wait thats the end, what about [inter any question here] because they arent answered. 
 My problem with the squad system was that, yes you get to fight along side people (again take note 
 Doom 3) but it never seems like they are part of your squad. Squad members simply respawn from 
 different areas of a map and typically die before they do much good.
  
  Multiplayer is non-existent. If youve been playing Counter Strike like everyone else for the past 
 few years, then there really is no multiplayer element. Yes C. S was updated to the Source engine 
 and it does look quite amazing, but its the same old CounterStrike. I would have loved to play 
 a Deathmatch level where the only weapon is the Gravity gun. Unfortunately none of this comes with 
 the game. Im sure the Mod community will implement this very soon.
  
  The game is a little buggy at times, which is kind of shocking consider the long development cycle. 
 The main bug that I encountered and many others did as well, is stuttering. The game hiccups 
 quite occasionally, followed by a drastic drop in frame fate, then audio stuttering. (As of this 
 writing, Valve has announced a patch is in the works) .
  
  In conclusion, while Half Life 2 is an overall phenomenal technical and level design achievement; 
 the story simply under whelms. I would have rated this game a 9.9 but the lack of story and closure 
 to the game doesnt allow me to. So should you be playing this game? Yes, what the hell are you 
 waiting for? Its been six years!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoystikJoe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2004 9:18 am PT
Review:  I finally finished the game, and it was an amazing roller coaster ride. I was a bit disappointed 
 at the end, as the game leaves you asking yourself, "What's next?" I guess we can expect many more 
 sequels in the future. I just hope that it doesn't take 5 years for the next one! This game has 
 to be the best FPS I have ever played, with no exceptions. I enjoyed every aspect of it, and now 
 I want to play Half-Life 3, but there is no Half-Life 3 yet! hahaha Oh well... Anyway, this game 
 is worth every cent. The graphics and sound and animations were spectacular. This is one game that 
 is tough to stop playing once you get into it. I ran it on a P4 3.2 Ghz Alienware with an ATI Radeon 
 9800XT graphics card with 2GB DDR memory, with a 320GB RAID 0 Array Hard drive setup, and an Audigy 
 2 ZS Platinum Pro Sound setup with Creative's 7.1 speaker setup. The game looked, played, and sounded 
 awesome! The frame rate was absolutely smooth with no hesitation, and I had no problems with the 
 games performance at all.
  Valve did a remarkable job with this game, and I have no doubt this game will be the PC Game of 
 the Year as the best FPS of 2004! Great job Valve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PWS41
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2004 1:50 am PT
Review:  There is no FPS this year that compares. Valve promised a AAA game and they delievered. I have 
 been a fan of Half-Life since 98. I have played the SP over 4 times, and still play mods to this 
 date. But I wouldn't call myself a fanboy.
  
  Gameplay- Amazing. You will think you have played the game for an hour and discover that it was 
 4. The atmosphere and variety of gameplay really help. Just when you are getting jsut a tad tired 
 of shooting you will find yourself solving a puzzle or driving a vehical. The immersiveness is 
 great. You will always find yourself having a blast.
  
  Graphics- Another wow. This engine is capable of everythig imaginable. From realistic outdoor enviroments, 
 indoor enviroments, and water it can't be stopped. It is highly optimized. No one would believe 
 that this game could run on 5 year old graphics cards without problems. The mod community is going 
 to have a blast with this engine. I'd love to see Doom3 with this much power.
  
  Sound- Another great aspect. It really sets the mood, and prepares your emotions for upcoming events. 
 The weapons all have a unique sound, and you can even tell what weapon your enemy is using without 
 seeing it. It also the small things that make it good. Such as the sound of a bird or the talk 
 of random people.
  
  Value- An excellent Single Player only problem is the lack of an offical Hl2 deathmatch. But the 
 mod is already out and its pretty good.
  
  Tilt- This games has met my expectations, and I cant wait to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2004 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2.... Does this reset the benchmark that half Life set? I would have to answer yes. The 
 major leap isn't the graphics, although they look superb, it isn't the AI which does the job brilliantly, 
 and it isn't the narrative. It is simply the best implementation of a physics engine there is. 
 The best complement to say is that after a few goes chucking books about in the station you don't 
 notice them. However when I had a quick blast on Call of Duty (and I love that game!) it felt wrong. 
 I couldn't move stuff when I wanted to. the game just feels like the world is real.
  
  There are a couple of small issues. It is a little bit easy so if you are a FPS fan just go straight 
 to as hard as possible, just map your favourite controls and be playing like an expert instantly. 
 The story is ok, and I am one of the few who thought the original HL while being the biz as a game 
 actually told a very simple story. There are reports of bugs but I'm lucky no problems on my rig.
 
  
  To sum up: a very real world that is beautiful to look at with big guns and face crabs.... what 
 more do you want. Buy now or regret it. The first time a bad due picks up a barrel and lobs it 
 at you or your cover is blown apart is sublime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afratnikov
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2004 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 plays like a regular FPS with the only slight difference being the Gravity Gun. What 
 set's HL2 appart is the way the game is presented: The environments are beautiful and, because 
 of the physics engine, very real. While opponents shoot at you, you don't just see red marks on 
 screen indicating you got hit, you see objects fly about because they got hit by enemy bullets. 
 Doom 3 attempted to make the action real by allowing very real lighting. This made the game cinematic, 
 and very scary, but it didn't seem as real as HL2. The ability to manipulate most of the objects 
 environment coupled with these objects behaving in a realistic way makes for a unique esxperience. 
 
  
  If you decide to play Half-life 2 as just another shooter, you will have a solid, bot not a great 
 game: The AI is fine, the compaign is engaging, the story is acceptable. People who play the game 
 in that way will be disapointed since everything has been done before, and done better. However, 
 if you continously use the physics engine, you can have a lot of fun. The HL2 universe is very 
 flexible: carry a box in front of you using a gravity gun to shield yourself from enemy fire and 
 then throw it at them; enemies throw grenades at you, and you throw them right back; take a long 
 wooden plank and place it to reach an unaccessible place... There are a lot of POSSIBILITIES NEVER 
 BEFORE POSSIBLE in other games. 
  
  I am not a big fan of Half-life -- I have played it till about half way and then quit. However 
 I have played the mods which have been created based on the HL engine. Even today the FPS games 
 I spend the most time on are Counter Strike and Natural Selection. HL2 has the potential to create 
 many different mods. (There has been a soccer mod based on the HL engine... who would have thought 
 of that? Think about the possibilities of the HL2 engine!) Half Life is a well done shooter on 
 its own right, but i am most interested in the mods that will spawn from the HL2 engine. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: felraiser
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  I do not hate Half-Life. In fact, the original game and its first expansion both easily fall into 
 my top ten games of all time. There was a certain genius, rather difficult to describe, to the 
 first game's style. Throughout the adventure, it felt as if you were both exploring freely in Black 
 Mesa and fitting snugly into the story - that is, just as if you were a unsuspecting man, such 
 as Freeman, placed into excactly the right circumstances. It really was immersive to run through 
 the base, discovering the many useful and interesting weapons as well as the many simple but satisfying 
 puzzles. Half-Life, in short, was exactly the experience it tried to be.
  
  Half-Life's successor, on the other hand, is not a masterpiece, or even a great game. Sure, it 
 looks good, and not in the flashy Doom 3 way - HL2's beauty comes mostly from its art, both animated 
 and drawn, and its advanced physics engine. It runs very well, too - the Source engine is a clear 
 success. Every other part of the game, however, comes off as either a mixed bag or rather generic.
 
  
  Sound represents the former case. The game's voices and sound effects are of very high quality, 
 and the acting in the game is pretty good overall. The score, on the other hand, is a total failure 
 on those rare occasions when it shows up. Except for a few short atmospheric pieces, the music 
 is entirely made up of grating electronica. It's almost a good thing that there is no music for 
 the vast majority of the game, as in those segments the other sound work functions very well. Still, 
 it's unfortunate that Valve couldn't get a better composer for their game.
  
  Half-Life 2 seems to follow in the footsteps of its predecessor at times, such as at the start 
 and end of the game, but it deviates from Half-Life's winning formula in the combat. Basically, 
 the gun battles in the game feel linear, too much like set pieces for a game in the Half-Life series. 
 Combine troops spawn in quite transparently and don't make things very interesting when they're 
 there, acting like mindless soldiers with barely any skill when they're aware of you and rarely 
 allowing for stealthy sequences when they're not. Your side of the battles isn't very exciting 
 either, as many of Half-Life's most interesting weapons have been left out of the sequel without 
 any spiritual successors of which to speak. There are two distinctive weapons to be found in Half-Life 
 2's single player, but one (Pheropod) is only useful in one level and is reduced to a stress ball 
 afterwards, while the other (Gravity Gun) is more of a puzzle tool for most of the game (except 
 when explosive barrels are around) . Don't get me wrong - the Gun is a very nice little toy, and 
 it shows off the physics well, but it's not as important as it could be until later on, when everything 
 becomes ridiculous. It can also be exploited pretty easily - did you know that if you hold anything, 
 even a tiny little plastic can, directly between your head and an enemy's, that enemy won't fire 
 at you? That doesn't even require the Gun, but it's still a significant example of how Half-Life 
 2's next- generation technology (being able to move almost any free object) clashes with its linear 
 design and simplistic enemies (they can't see you if you can't see them) . The physics puzzles are 
 basically satisfying and combat is fun enough, but the game simply isn't that great at its core.
 
  
  Even so, Valve evidently thought that its game was good enough to stop people from complaining 
 about the useless story. Though the game presents its basic plot and immediate objectives well, 
 you never really find out what's going on in the big picture. Due to this and the game's linear 
 nature, playing HL2 feels like being dragged along a dark, narrow path, rather than freely discovering 
 the world of its predecessor. The story isn't conclusive, either - at the end, you are actually 
 pulled out of the game and deprived of any resolution, remaining entirely in the dark about many 
 important things.
  
  Still, poor story and an emphasis on graphical style over substance aren't exactly uncommon in 
 the first-person shooter genre. In fact, they're exactly what you'd expect to find in your average 
 FPS, but not in a game like Half-Life 2. Valve promised that their six-year development cycle would 
 turn out something revolutionary, but they have instead fallen into the common trap of valuing 
 the engine more than the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8wnec
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2004 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I still havent beat the game yet, but so far it owns all cows and sheep and lemmings. The controls 
 are simple. W, A, S, D and mouse. Not too complex. The learning curve is playing Quake 1 when it came 
 out. Even on my 166mhz the controls were not difficult. Graphics are superb and not a enhanced 
 version of Half-life. Kinda not like Halo 1 looks exactly like Halo 2. The story lines is great. 
 I dont get how Halo players can say that it it lacking because Halo doesnt even have a story line. 
 Sound is great especially when you crank up the volume. I like the sound of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_1012002
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2004 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was a long awaited game but for some strange reason, I wasn't very anticipated at all. 
 I liked the first one though, a lot. I wasn't even planning to buy this game but one day when i 
 brought my new computer which is really powerful, i thought let's buy Half Life 2 to see how powerful 
 my new computer really is. Man was I amazed when the first i started playing it. At first, I hasitated 
 to put everything on high detail because I thought it might run very slow but I gave it a try, 
 it ran as smooth as a butter. Then i thought to myself, "They were right, the graphics are good." 
 In fact they are superb! I don't know about some of you but i think Half Life 2 graphics could 
 be a bit better than Doom 3. Anyway, when i started on playing this game, i couldn't stop at all. 
 The gameplay is so real and the levels are cleverly designed. The arsenals in the game is pretty 
 fancy too, my fav would be the smg and the gravity gun. Gravity gun really shows off the physics 
 engine in the game.
  
  The main thing I'm trying to say is that if you like first person shooter, u should definately 
 buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2004 4:22 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 Review -
  
  Six years -- thats how long some have waited for the anticipated sequel known as Half-Life 2. 
 Valve games released the original Half-Life in 1998; a game that revolutionized First Person Shooters. 
 Not only did it introduce a well-written, interesting plot and story-line, but it also had characters 
 that you would come to love. These things were previously non-existent in the First person shooter 
 genre. Half-Life rolls around not only bringing a new level of personality to the genre but doing 
 it extremely well and with excellent gameplay. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is similar to its predecessor in many ways. The story is still told through Gordon 
 Freemans perspective from start to finish. You are never taken from his view during the course 
 of the game. This, just as it did in the original, brings a truly unheard of amount of emersion 
 into the atmospheric game-world Half-Life 2 drops you in. The eerie and mysterious nature of the 
 G-man is the first thing you are treated to in starting Half-Life 2. The original game ends with 
 Gordon making a choice; does he accept the G-mans job offer (Not knowing anything about what hell 
 be doing) or does he fight an unwinnable battle? Even though the player is given the choice, the 
 story of Half-Life 2 is the result of you choosing the first option. 
  
  Wake up Mr. Freeman... wake up and smell the ashes One of the opening lines given by the G-man. 
 You arrive at the station of City-17, one of the last remaining cities on Earth; a planet now controlled 
 by our benefactors. Gas-mask clad soldiers known as the Combine. Walking through the train-station 
 for the first time is one of the most atmospheric moments in the entire game, and possibly any 
 game that Ive ever played. The other humans there seem paranoid; one man paces back and fourth 
 contemplating how people never take the train to leave the city, they only arrive. This is driven 
 home by the extraordinary visuals that set Half-Life 2 apart. Valve wasnt just making Half-Life 
 2 all these long years; they were creating their own game engine -- the Source engine. Possibly 
 the most advanced game-engine any game has been built off; Half-Life 2 is not only a spectacular 
 achievement from a technical stand-point; but from an artistic point also. 
  
  Half-Life 2 does not use the most technically advanced graphical touches in excess; this gives 
 the game a more natural, gritty, realistic look. There isnt bumb-mapping on every surface. These 
 effects are used in more subtle ways around the ethereal environments. The characters game-models 
 are the most realistic, human, and life-like in any game to date. Their facial muscles move humanly 
 and reflect true emotion; Half-Life 2 is the first game to truly evoke the illusion of talking 
 to real people. As you advance in the story and events un-fold you know what characters like Alyx, 
 Barney, Eli-Vance and others are going through; what theyre fighting for. The environments give 
 the game even more style and further the story without words. When you see the ominous tower of 
 the Combine looming over Cite 17 you know that in fighting against them isnt going to be easy, 
 and that theyre obviously more technically advanced then the humans of earth. There are many subtle 
 touches to the environments also, youll pass through an abandoned play-ground, then wonder why 
 there are no children. This is one of the many questions that are left unanswered in Half-Life 
 2.
  
  The story actually raises more questions than it answers questions that you were left wondering 
 about for the past 6 years since the original. This may aggravate some fans of the series who expected 
 HL2 to explain such things as: Who is the G-man? Where did the Combine come from? How did they 
 come to take over Earth? Its fairly simple why things like these are left unanswered -- Half-Life 
 2 is the middle chapter in the Half-Life story. So will we have to wait another 6 years for HL3? 
 Maybe, but just as was done with the original there will be expansions to HL2. And if its anything 
 like before, they may take place in the same time-period as HL2, from another characters perspective. 
 So you may play as one of the Combine, or maybe as Alyx or Barney helping the resistance fight. 
 There are countless possibilities now that Valve has the Source engine done for the most part.
 
  
  Ive talked about the level of emersion HL2 submerges you in; the groundbreaking graphics and atmosphere, 
 and the level of detail the Source engine can pump out -- but what about the core gameplay of Half-Life 
 2? Is it too similar to previously released games this year? Is it too much like its predecessor? 
 The answer to these questions is simple. You wont find your self learning too much new to the 
 genre in terms of gameplay, but what is here is varied, enjoyable, and quite possibly does everything 
 better than it has been done up until now. Its not revolutionary, but it raises the bar for what 
 needs to be done to make an excellent shooter. 
  
  The obvious place to start is with the physics engine that is fully incorporated into the gameplay 
 of Half-Life 2. More so than any other game Ive ever played. Rag-doll effects are becoming more 
 and more common in games today, but Half-Life 2 puts you in a world abundant with objects that 
 you can toy with, fight with, and use to solve some creative puzzles. You have your pistols, rifles, 
 smgs, even your rocket launcher, these are great fun to use, but none compare to the new Gravity 
 gun -- made purely for messing around, and doing crazy stuff. Thousands of objects litter the world 
 and most are fully manipulative. You can pick up that empty beer bottle and throw it an enraged 
 combine soldier -- and yes, he will react. Of course some objects are more deadly than others, 
 like your enemy may only flinch when hes hit with a cardboard box, but when you hit him with that 
 car
  
  Youll encounter two vehicular segments in Half-Life 2 -- The air-boat and the buggy. Both handle 
 quite realistically. Some may complain that the handling is too loose, but when you think about 
 how both of these machines were thrown together by a rag-tag group of men and women fighting against 
 the combine, these would not be the most refined pieces of machinery. Whats very cool about how 
 these vehicles drive is the fact that they handle differently on different surfaces. Youll notice 
 its a bit harder to make sharp turns in the buggy while driving along the outer shores of City 
 17. The same can be said for the air-boat while driving over land or water. 
  
  The vehicular sections are not the most impressive parts of HL2, and yet I cant complain because 
 both were very enjoyable and pretty intense. You never feel that youve been driving too long because 
 these parts are broken up by puzzles or fighting. You may come to a gate that needs to be opened 
 before you can pass by, therefore having to get out climb a ladder and go looking for the switch. 
 HL2 does well in bringing these vehicles to life and making them a joy to drive.
  
  HL2 is not a frightfully difficult game -- in fact, it can be rather easy in some cases. If you 
 play smart, and you dont run out in the middle of fire fights, it wont be hard to get past most 
 of the Combine soldiers. Dont take this the wrong way, the a. i. is quite good. The Combine use 
 squad tactics, throw grenades, snipe you, take cover, call for back-up, and overall use their surroundings 
 quite impressively. The only downfall that I see here is the fact that the a. i doesnt change at 
 all when the difficulty is taken up or down. The only change that is made is that your weapons 
 do less damage -- and you take more damage from the enemy. This does make the game harder, because 
 it takes more effort to deal with your enemy, but it would have been nice to see an effort like 
 that of Halo -- where playing on each difficulty can lead to entirely different play experiences. 
 Half-Life 2 will take you 15 - 20 hours to complete, depending on whether you stop to smell the 
 flowers. 
  
  There are some friendly a. i. bits also which are handled quite well. Even all of these random freedom 
 fighters you fight along seem very unique, although youll run into a few of the same character 
 skins through-out the game. Gordon is used to fighting alone, and much of the game you still do, 
 the neat thing about these friendly a. i. segments is that you feel relieved when a couple guys 
 run up and yell Were coming with you Freeman! By pressing C you can tell your current squad 
 to go where you are pointing. This works fine, although for the most part the only time you need 
 this is to get them out of your way. They will automatically follow you, problem is that they stay 
 too close and end up blocking you some of the time. This can be somewhat annoying, and you kind 
 of wish they just did their own thing all the time. This is still a minor complaint on some overall 
 extremely enjoyable parts of HL2.
  
  HL2 is not only a visual delicacy, on the audible side theres much to be pleased with as well. 
 The crown jewel of HL2s sound is the excellent and memorable voice acting. Every character in 
 the game, from the wicked Dr. Breen to the normal humans scattered through out the game helping 
 Gordon along. Each individual is done with great precision and each has a very human quality. 
 
  
  Robert Guillaume - Dr. Eli Vance 
  Robert Culp - Dr. Wallace Breen
  Merle Dandridge - Alyx Vance 
  Mike Shapiro - Barney Calhoun 
  Mike Shapiro - G-Man
  Jim 
 French - Father Grigori
  
  Just to name a few of the superb voice actors.
  
  
  Many of the sound-effects used in HL2 are the same from the original, although they are of higher 
 quality now. This adds a nostalgic factor for many fans, and the effects are well done to boot. 
 One of my favorite parts about Half-Life was how the music was implemented. There were certain 
 sections where the music would kick-in and help set the mood. The music wasnt over used in the 
 overall experience though, something that makes a big difference. An example of over using music 
 in a first person shooter would be the Medal of Honor series. Those games use great orchestrated 
 original scores, but much of the time the music simple doesnt fit whats happening on-screen. 
 You never had this in HL, and the same is being used for HL2. There are those moments in the game 
 that are helped along with the addition of music. 
  
  Something that is absolutely mandatory in fps now-a-days is some form of online multiplayer. There 
 rarely is a game that truly has both great single and multiplayer blended into one. There are plenty 
 games that focus completely on multiplayer. EAs Battlefield series has single player, but is ultimately 
 about big online battles. A game like Far cry has fairly lack-luster multiplayer and is focused 
 more on its single player. One game that comes to mind where the two were integrated well would 
 be Call of Duty and its respective expansion.
  
  Half-Life 2 does not have any multiplayer component directly attached to its single player story 
 and settings. Sadly, you wont be having a great time flinging barrels at people with the Gravity 
 gun. Instead Valve has given us Counter Strike Source -- an updated version of the now classic 
 and ever popular team-based squad action title. All the maps given to you out of the box for CSS 
 are maps most former CS players should already know like the back of their hands. Valve has switched 
 things up a bit creating some tweaks here and there to keep previous players on their toes, and 
 also fixing some problems in the original version of the said maps.
  
  The true change with CSS is the graphics over-haul. This, unlike Half-Life Source (An update of 
 the original game with some neat new effects, but essentially looks the same) looks good even by 
 modern standards. The game isnt as detailed as HL2, and not all the textures are great, but what 
 is here is hard to complain about. The core gameplay of Counter strike is almost completely unchanged. 
 The same strategies can be used, and youll find yourself just as frustrated in certain situations 
 where you know you shot that guy in the head and he didnt die. The gameplay holds up considerably 
 well even to this day, but isnt as sophisticated as many multiplayer focused shooters out there.
 
  
  What you do get from Counter Strike Source is great, the graphics; the sound; the better and more 
 realistic feel of the weapons -- its all good. If youre bummed out about not getting HL2 oriented 
 Multiplayer, Ill tell you right now you have nothing to fear. The Mod community is hard at work 
 and by the end of the year youll be playing plenty great promising moderations of HL2.
  
  --
  
  Its been a long wait for Half-Life 2, and now that it has finally arrived there seriously 
 is no one complaint that taints this phenomenal gaming experience. Is it the perfect game? No, 
 I dont believe it is. Is it as revolutionary as its predecessor was? Not by a long shot. What 
 Half-Life 2 does is raises the bar for first person shooters. Half-Life 2 succeeds at every thing 
 it does -- creating the most diverse, entertaining, exciting, well-crafted, first person shooter 
 on the market right now. And to tell you the truth I see it being quite some time before anything 
 surpasses it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vaev
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2004 3:23 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is hands down the number one PC game out there. In development for over 4 years, this 
 sequel to the ground-breaking Half-Life was worth the wait. Having created a brand new engine for 
 the game, Valve also threw in an update to the most popular multiplayer shooter to date, Counter-Strike 
 Source. The game takes advantage of Valve's new enigine to employ realistic physics and graphics. 
 This, bundled with HL2 for only 49.99 is quite a deal.
  The graphics in Half-Life 2 are nothing short of revolutionary. Realistic physics allow for satisfying 
 gameplay options and a very versatile approach to solving problems. Players may remember the diverse 
 and creative settings from the original Half-Life, this time Valve has done it again, and made 
 things even better. The war-torn environment of City 17 has some really impressive archetecture 
 and textures. Probably one of the most distinguishable features, graphics-wise is the facial animation 
 of the NPCs. Alyx, and The Gman are the best examples.
  The only downfall in HL2 is the unavoidable ending. I was a little disapointed to realize that 
 this amazing experience was over. Not to spoil anything, but it leaves quite a gaping hole in the 
 story which isn't such a bad thing. Now we've all got to start our wait for the inevitable Half-Life 
 3.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2004 3:09 am PT
Review:  One week after the release I could finally play Half Life. Not because I did not have the time 
 or interest of playing it earlier, but simply because the Steam technology is severely broken in 
 many ways.
  
  Steam is engineered to make it harder to pirate the game, but in my case it in fact had the opposite 
 effect. After loads of problems connecting, downloading and even having several credit cards rejected 
 for apparently no valid reasons at all, I seriously considering becoming a pirate. I mean, trying 
 several times every day, for over a week, to buy the game in various ways, is just too dumb!
  
  But, Finally, I managed to get the game from ebay, which is the only Internet marketplace who 
 ships to the country where I currently live. And, after more problems I even managed to unlock 
 the game. 
  
  So, was it worth all the trouble?
  
  Well, frankly I would not have done all this again. Unless they fix Steam dramatically I will never 
 buy another game from them again. Half Life 2 however, was juicy enough to have me suffer through 
 all the problems.
  
  If you read this, you probably read 100 reviews before as well, so I will just point out a few 
 big up's and downs with regards to the game.
  
  I was a bit let down by the fact there was less interactive story elements than I first imagined. 
 In the beginning you meet many people and are a part of a living and breathing world, and the end 
 of the game also makes you feel part of a living world. Most of the time in the middle of the game, 
 you are on your own though with your gun and the enemy as your only company.
  
  I played the game at hard difficulty level, but it is a bit unbalanced, as you often get too powerful 
 weapons. Like the bugbait, which does not require you to do anything else than sit back and watch 
 the antlions rip apart your enemy for the rest of the level after you find it. And you get a upgraded 
 version of the gravity gun in the end, that totally overpowers the combine.
  
  I recommend you to play the game through on the hardest level, as otherwise it is simply too easy. 
 Especially as you can save and reload freely.
  
  The physics is put to good use, however it was less interesting than what the hype made it look. 
 I found myself using the gravity gun relatively seldom, it is not so practical in most situations 
 compared to the other weapons. The only times you really notice the physics, is through a series 
 of physics related puzzles. They are quite enjoyable, and not too hard to take the feeling of a 
 frantic action game away.
  
  What is really outstanding with the game is the level of details, and also graphics. Not just the 
 3D engine, but also how the artists have made use of it. The game is truly beautiful, and the in-game-acting 
 is breathtaking and better than anything I have seen before. Small details like your squadmates 
 apologizing to you if they get in your way, the characters ability to level each individual foot 
 according to the ground making walking in stairs and on uneven terrain look realistic, having a 
 TV become turned off if you yank out the power cord and the little glare in the characters eye 
 all add up to a game you can play through many times to discover every part of it.
  
  The story is interesting to, but it looks like Valve made each level independently and you do not 
 really feel the story evolves in any logical way. Scripted events are more about small events, 
 the larger plot is not revealed much while you play, and the ending is a bit like a car running 
 around the world just to hit a brick wall in the end. Unlogical, unfocused, yet atmospheric and 
 entertaining. You do not want to buy the game for its story though.
  
  All in all, the game delivers, and I played it for many days so I would say it contains quite a 
 lot of entertainment value for a long time.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngbloodza
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2004 2:11 am PT
Review:  gameplay-First off, the game has an excellent amount of weapons, instead of giving the same old 
 stuff, with different weapons. The most fun is the gravity gun (as almost every1 will say) and it 
 offers original gameplay to this game. From the beginning, you can throw things at fellow prisoners, 
 or throw sum stuff at combines before they stun u. The game has a variety of enemies to, but not 
 as many as I oudve liked. I woudve liked if there was a time in the game, where you have to run 
 away from striders, but that didnt happen its all good though. Not only is there HL2, but CS: S 
 for unlimited replayability. Antoher problem was the friendly AI, which got in your way, and wasnt 
 much help since they dont use strategy compared to the combine. They do pick up stronger weapons, 
 which isreally cool/
  
  Graphics-Supuyb. i have a 64 mb graphics card, and the game still looks excellent. I can still 
 see peoples expressions, and monsters, like volitigores, and combines. I cant really judge the 
 water since it looks like crap on mine.
  
  Sound-Everything from the music, to the sound effects are enjoyable. The music is sortof a techno 
 and it sounds really good. The sound effects are also good, from explosions, to gun shots hitting 
 the dirt, walls and floors.
  
  Value-From the story line, it always has ingame cinematics, which means you can actually look around 
 at the battlefield, helpless, but also the story line has twists everywhere, and adds lots of fun. I 
 wont give away anything though. 
  
  Trust me, this is a must own. Subuyb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SXG
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2004 1:55 am PT
Review:  *FEW SPOILERS*
  Half Life 2 is the long expected game from Valve software. Everyone knows about the story of Half 
 Life 2's creation, from the delays to the illegal hacking activities, but it was well worth the 
 wait.
  Nothing in Half Life 2 is boring, I can say that. Nothing is repetitive. Nothing is slow. Nothing 
 is EVER EVEN CLOSE to horrible. The graphics are amazing, the sound is amazing, the gameplay is 
 amazing. It all just one great game rolled p into an amazing package. 
  The scripted sequences are all great, and none repetitive. From the smashing of the giant screen 
 to the ever amazing dog, it all is the great.
  One thing that brings down the score of Half Life 2 a slight bit is the ever annoying stuttering 
 problem. It does not occur on many systems but it occured on mine. Every corner... STUDDDDD... ever 
 new area... STUDDDDD...
  story=10/10-nothing short of amazing
  voice acting=10/10-same as above
  actors=10/10-yes it almost seems as if there is actors 
  
 
  BUY IT TODAY!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrids
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2004 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is here, and it has lived up to the hype. It could very well be the best game ever 
 made. More than a year and a half ago Half-Life 2 was unveiled at E3 2003, and it soon became the 
 subject of every PC gamer's dream. To top it off it was to be finished and released by 9/30 the 
 same year. It seemed almost too good to be true.
  
  As everyone knows much drama was to ensue. The countless delays, the beta leak, and the ongoing 
 legal tension between Valve and Vivendi caused everyone to wonder whether the game would ever come 
 out, or if when it did whether it would still be as stunning as it was way back at E3 2003.
  
  November 16th, 2004, was the date, and now Half-Life 2 is here. Not only is it here, but it 
 delivers everything that was promised. Right off the bat the game immerses you in the mysterious 
 plot and the 1984-esque atmosphere. The game is so polished it's stunning. Reminiscent of the original 
 Half-Life you'll find yourself wandering around the beginning area, taking in the game and getting 
 accustomed to the feeling of the game. The opening sequence to the game can't really be described 
 in a way that gives you the same feeling as playing it. To understand, you must get the game and 
 see.
  
  Atmosphere is a huge part of Half-Life 2. Because the plot does not really get a change to regularly 
 advance itself in the game, the atmosphere does a terrific job of keeping the game within the world. 
 Only a few times during the game will you be able to recognize any kind of plot or script, but 
 the atmosphere is ongoing and keeps the HL2 world alive. From the beginning you can see the Citadel 
 from the train station you arrive to at City 17. Towering above the clouds it emits an omniscient 
 presence, which is reinforced by the countless scanners that travel around the city and document 
 everything they see with their red eyes. 
  
  As you look around you'll see just how good the graphics in this game are. The facial characteristics 
 of the NPC's is outstanding, and the high resolution textures make City 17, as well as the other 
 locales, come to life. The eyes of the games NPC's are actually scary they're so realistic. You 
 can see the twinkle in someones eyes when you look at them. The lighting is as it looks in the 
 videos, outstanding. Animations are also a shining area in this game, as the characters move fluently 
 while performing their actions. Ragdoll physics allow the enemies that you have killed to fall 
 to the ground realistically, which is especially rewarding to watch an enemy fall from atop a building.
 
  
  Sound is another high point in this game. The voice acting is top-notch, and adds more life to 
 an already lively game. Gunshots and explosions supply the atmosphere with warlike elements, and 
 the screams of the headcrab zombies will haunt you as you fight your way through Ravenholm. The 
 music is also fantastic. Some songs are simply remixes from the original Half-Life but they all 
 fit the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Gameplay is taken right from the original Half-Life. Guns still shoot the same and you still move 
 the same. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. One major addition to the gameplay however is the obvious 
 addition of the Havok 2 physics engine, and the Gravity Gun. This gun gives you the freedom to 
 manipulate the environment as you like by picking up items of a certain weight limit and moving 
 them or shooting them into the distance. This weapon comes into play in all aspects of the game, 
 whether you're solving a puzzle or battling the Overwatch.
  
  Many complained of the games lack of multiplayer (which by multiplayer means Half-Life 2 DM or 
 any MP composed of HL2's weapons and characters) . This seems preposterous when you take into account 
 that any of the FIVE available Half-Life 2 packages that you purchase comes with Counter-Strike: 
 Source, a digitally remastered version of the classic multiplayer counter-terrorism Half-Life mod, 
 redone on the Source Engine. This means better graphics and the addition of physics. When you take 
 into account that you are getting HL2 and CS: S for the retail price of one game, it's easy to recognize 
 that you are getting a good deal no matter what package you purchase. 
  
  Six years in the making and it was worth the wait. If there is one gripe about this game, it may 
 be that it is just a little too short. Taking the average gamer only a little over ten hours, it 
 leaves you wishing for more, but we can expect expansion packs from Valve in the near future. If 
 you do not already own this game, or you have been wondering whether it really is worth your hard 
 earned money, then this is your reassurrance. Go buy Half-Life 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TubbyGold
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2004 6:35 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game, I was amazed at the way they had made the G-man's face, you could 
 see the growth of his beard, human flaws and such in his beard, amazing, they thought of it all. 
 
  
  You start up on the trainstation/Metro level, looking at a large flat plasma screen, where Mr. 
 Breen is holding his repetitive speech, it is very well executed, in such a manner, that you really 
 feel like you are a prisoner of this city, you feel supressed, the Metro cops push you if you come 
 too close and might take out their baton's to warn you or hit you with them if it get's to that.
 
  
  The graphic's... One word: Beautiful, the graphis are fantastic, in my opinion they are better 
 than Doom 3's, Doom 3's graphics look's a little bit like plastic, especially the faces, Horrible. 
 The Half-Life 2 engine, Source, has a great renderer - It really make's the graphics flow. This 
 game has the best looking water to date, the fire aswell is the best looking to date, Half-Life 
 2 has truly beaten and swift the competition. 
  
  Gameplay... It's a shoot'em up of course, but very varied, first you start up shooting with a pistol, 
 later you go on shooting with an SMG, and later RPG, Gravity gun, Airboat, Buggy, etcetera. Because 
 of the physics, you get a kick it the stomach from happiness, not like games from 1998, where the 
 bodies dissappear and there is no physics, I will come back to explaining about the physics later. 
 
  
  You go around shooting; looking at the bodies fall down from high buldings, the new shooting-system 
 is great, it feels very natural and realistic. - the amount of bullets required for a kill is just 
 about right. The gameplay is one of the best elements HL2 has.
  
  Phsyics... You will fall in love with them, they are revolutionary, such a high degree of physics 
 has never been implemented in any other games, HL2 has truly set a new standard for games, and 
 the other companies will follow VALVe's example, and start implementing physics of this degree. 
 
  
  The game's physics are the one making the game so fun to play, watching a Combine fall off the 
 roof, breaking every bone in his body, and even when he falls to the ground, you see his body rolling.
 
  
  Reply Value... I would say I could play through this game over and over again, you will never expect 
 the same to happen, the fights are not scripted, only a few in the start are, besides that, it's 
 all good. You could definitely play this game over and over again, you could never get tired of 
 it in my opinion, Ummmm, using a cog to kill a zombie, delicious, hehe.
  
  Face animations... To conclude this in three words, wonderful, fantastic and super realistic. Ok 
 - I am not really concluding this in three words, I will try to explain this to the best of my 
 ability. There is a certain point in the game, where you are in Dr. Kleiner's lab, and Barney and 
 Dr. Kleiner discuss something, (I'm not going to name spoilers) , and Alyx asks "What Cat?" and 
 when Dr. Kleiner and Barney ignore her completely, she asks again with a louder and more confused 
 voice "What cat?!" and she then rolls her eyes, it feels like a movie, it was beautiful to watch 
 for the very first time.
  
  When you get to speak to Mr. Eli Vance for the very first time, he has a big smile on his face, 
 which looks so realistic, not to mention the beard and the face! And later when his grinning from 
 a joke... "Gordon Freeman can even handle You", Directed towards Alyx, where she afterwards reply's 
 "Daaaad!" and the body movement expressed aswell is fantastic, so realistic and you can see she 
 is impressed, HL2 really delivers a live-motion movie, you swallow every bite of story there is, 
 and you don't cough it out again. 
  
  And I swear, the faces are so alive, you can even see when you walk around if one of the rebels 
 are tired. But you really need to see it for yourself, your a fool if you only played it at a friend's, 
 go buy it!
  
  Story... Well, there isn't much, but as I have mentioned before, you swallow every bite, because 
 it's so interesting, but it tells more about the characters life rather than tell a story about 
 how the Combine forces arrived, and why Dr. Breen is controlling it all, the only bit of important 
 information you get, which you can use is that Dr. Breen is your old administrator from Black Mesa, 
 and not to spoil to much, it seems like there is going to be a sequel, Half-Life 3. So to be honest, 
 don't expect a great story you really get cought in from pure interest, but the characters story 
 is very well written and interesting, it's like seeing what their every-day life is like.
  
  ---------------
  
  That should cover the largest part of the game, I could have written 
 a more well-written preview, but only a few people will actually read this out of the 30 previews 
 already here.
  
  Sincerely,
  
  Ben
  
  US 11-25-2004 European: 25-11-2004
  
  PS: Some people are saying there are lots of bugs... It is only on certain PC's! I bought Half-life 
 2 off steam, and activated in the afternoon (About 4 - 5 Hours after it was originally acativated) 
 - I had experienced a fast paced installation, bugfree game...
  
  The only bug I could find is on the 13th or 14th level... You suddenly can't jump, but that is 
 quickly fixed with typing "Reset" in your console.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstanchos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2004 4:07 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about a game that has it all, awesome graphics, intense action, and bone tingling 
 suspece. Well after you beat the game in 15hrs or so it will leave you kind of feeling like there 
 should be more. We waited 3 years for this game, I figured there would be more time involved in 
 actually makeing it through. Though some of the short feeling comes from the fact that you are 
 thrust into almost non-stop nail biteing action from start to finish. It really feels like you 
 step off the train in city 17 and onto a virtual rollercoster ride of events. I give this game 
 a 9.7 only because I feel that there could have been more meat to a game 3 years in the makeing 
 but what we did get is a new expectation of what future fps should be like.
  
  J. S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00697man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2004 3:51 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Its as simple at that. There are some flaws that should be noted though.
  
  1. the people at valve have given the game an excellent arsenal but there is a HUGE part mising. 
 THE SNIPER WEAPON!!!! every FPS worth mentioning has one. that is, if they have the environments 
 to support them.
  
  2. the game has that very annoying  
 system.
  
  3. 6 years and no multyplayer. remember when you were in school ant said "i'll do a little bit 
 of work and let my partner do the rest"? well that's what valve did with half-life 2. make single 
 player and be lazy and let the mod people do the rest.
  
  4. this one is just nitpicking so dont take it seriously.
  
  the FAMAS (in cs: s) holds 25 rounds 
 in a clip but it holds 30 in real life. what the hell
  
  the game is fun (when you're actually playing) and that is where it counts but if you play FPS 
 games often, you will be sadly dissapointed with how slow this game plays compared to others. combine 
 that with the crappy red faction style loading and the relitivly weak arsenal and you have a game 
 that only seems longer than it really is because of all the load times. 
  
  If you however DO NOT play too many FPS games, go yourself a fovao and play this game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phuang
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2004 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Aside from DOOM3 and Painkiller, most FPS are starting to focus not only in graphics BUT physics 
 and problem-solving riddles also. To be honest, I somehow felt Half-Life 2 very similar to Half-Life 
 in the game design perspective, which is a very good thing. 
  
  I simply felt right at home as long as I put my mindset back to their first game using the skills 
 I learned a few years ago. I lost this feeling in the past few years because most games are returning 
 to shoot/run and Wow! it looks good FPS only. The new physics engine is quite good (compare with 
 other FPS out there. I can't wait for their next version) and it simply generate a whole lot of 
 life suitation to make the game more realistic. 
  
  For example, early of the game you will encounter a spot where a piece of wood is hanging between 
 a concrete which makes it looks like a balance. Hmm .. what does it do .... reminds me of of games 
 I played when I was a boy .... Then there were small pieces of concrete laying around while you 
 need to climb a mid-high wall on the other end. My first impression is me standing on one end of 
 the board and throwing the small concrete to the other side, kind of like the cartoon with RoadRunner 
 which I hope will bounce me to the other side (I think this trick will work on Valve's next physics 
 engine, I really hope so) . No luck. Instead I need to place a few small concrete on one end to 
 make the board raise on the other end and then I need to run/jump to the mid-high wall instead. 
 To be honest I am kind of suprise this works (in real life, I assume the board will break while 
 I run to the other side) . My point is this gives me real options using things I learn in school 
 or playground! Now that's a good reality show IF it works.
  
  On the other hand I think Far Cry is pretty cool also. Nuff said ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2004 12:27 pm PT
Review:  For the first half of this game, I was ready to anoint it the best action game ever made. Everything 
 just works so well. The gameplay is perfectly balanced, the mystery in the story builds, and everything 
 seems perfectly tested so that it works just right. All of the additions that the game makes to 
 the genre are ingenious. Then, about 2/3 of the way through, the game loses some steam. The level 
 design takes a step backwards to 1998 in some areas. Other times, gameplay elements simply dont 
 work all that well. Finally, the story ends without answering a damn thing, making you wonder whether 
 there is going to be any resolution for what seems like a bunch of senseless plot twists.
  
  Half-Life 2 is the most incredible looking game ever made. It blows away Doom 3, and is still 
 easily better looking than Far Cry. Everything in the game looks amazing. The characters look, 
 move, and act so life-like. The water almost makes you thirsty looking at it, and each of the games 
 enemies are loaded with detail. The new alien enemies that you meet about halfway through the game 
 are particularly impressive, and the gigantic striders are simply unbelievable. City 17 is a strange 
 mix of beauty and despair. I have never played a game that so perfectly captures an atmosphere 
 like this. Imagine what a rundown Eastern European city would look like in a totalitarian state 
 ravaged by mayhem, and you have it in this game. Towards the end of the game, when you are fighting 
 through bombed-out, war-torn and flaming buildings, you have to occasionally stop to marvel at 
 the carnage. Valve really hit a home run when it comes to atmosphere. 
  
  Half-Life 2 adds a lot to the original game. There are a couple of long vehicular sequences, some 
 squad-based combat, a handful of new and interesting enemies, but most of all, physics. No PC game 
 has integrated physics this well into the gameplay. The gravity gun is certain to be imitated by 
 lots of other games. With it, you can pick up all sorts of objects in the environment and use them 
 as shields or weapons. After playing through the game almost twice now, I can tell you that ripping 
 a radiator off the wall and flattening an enemy with it never gets old. Neither does launching 
 an exploding barrel at a group of enemies and watching them fly across the screen. The game also 
 has some physics-based puzzles, which arent that much different from the puzzles in the original 
 game.
  
  With the exception of one significant stuttering bug, the audio for Half-Life 2 is unforgettable. 
 Everything in the game sounds so  cool. Every sound will implant itself firmly in your memory. 
 The radio chatter and AI barks of the combine, the whirling of the manhack blades, the horrible 
 moan of the headcrab zombies, the sounds of the gunship machine guns, the hum of the gravity gun, 
 the resounding crack of the 357 magnum, the screeches of the ant lions, and the thump-thump that 
 the striders make as they plow through the city. 
  
  Level design, for the first 2/3 of the game, is brilliant. The game is pretty tightly scripted 
 and doesnt deviate too far from the formulas of lots of other first-person shooters. Health and 
 shield power-ups are places just enough to make the game forgiving without making it too easy. 
 The game throws a variety of exciting challenges at you and doesnt get too frustrating or annoying. 
 In particular, the hover boat level is a nonstop thrill ride, and the Ravenholm chapter is like 
 a survival horror game on crack. 
  
  But after that, you start to run into some areas that become either annoying or just aggravating. 
 It starts with the dune buggy level, which features horrendous controls. You will spend more time 
 upside-down in the buggy than you will spend driving it. Then there are some annoying puzzles. 
 Three times, the game throws a puzzle at you that requires you to build some sort of bridge over 
 a hazardous terrain using objects in the environment. These sequences all interrupt the action, 
 they are too long, and they arent fun. There are also some avoid setting off the turret puzzles 
 near the end that are outdated and shouldnt have been in this game.
  
  A couple of defensive missions require you to set up automated turrets, which are easily knocked 
 over and seemingly impossible to get standing back up again. These sequences are indescribably 
 aggravating, as you helplessly try to get your turrets upright while your enemies blast away at 
 you. The squad-based portions of the game are unsatisfying. The squad is either fodder or just 
 gets in your way in the games tight corridors. If you have a squad, a single strider will cut 
 it down in about five seconds, so its pointless to try to keep them alive. Around this time, the 
 game is becoming a quick-save fest, as you are fighting hordes of enemies 10 or 15 at a time, getting 
 ambushed many times. The game still has encounters that require you use the knowledge that you 
 gain by quick saving to get through them. If you ask me, games like Far Cry and Halo have made 
 this type of encounter obsolete.
  
  Half-Life 2 is somewhat longer than your average action game. It took me a bit less than 20 hours 
 to complete it the first time, and it has so much to see and do that you can go back and replay 
 it immediately. I loved Half-Life 2, but some of the parts at the end left too much of a lukewarm 
 taste in my mouth to call it Game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 24, 2004 7:34 am PT
Review:  The original Half-Life was an okay game, and Half-Life 2 is cruising right down the same path as 
 its older sibling.
  
  I know a lot of people won't agree with me, but, i think some people over react for well hyped 
 games. Give my words a chance, and maybe you'll see what i mean.
  
  Don't get me wrong here, the source engine is downright amazing. I mean, it renders things games 
 never even considering doing a few years ago, like letting electrical wires sway in the breeze. 
 It uses realistic effects for cloth in game, making clothes looks awesome. (If you havnt seen a 
 gameplay movie of Vampire: Bloodlines and a trenchcoat, you need to. its gorgeous.) And yeah, the 
 water is probably the most realistic i have seen in a game.
  
  But other then that, HL2 is your every day first person shooter. Now, i would like to mention that 
 the reason many people claimed they didn't like Doom 3 was because it was merely a tedious and 
 repetitious series of scripted sequences. Well, HL2 is the same way. It absolutely does work to 
 the right effect, to bring you more into the game, but when its all said and done, its just the 
 same stuff all over again.
  
  Now if you're a fan of the FPS genre, im sure you can get plenty of fun out of HL2. It is without 
 a doubt one of the top shooters on the market, but i beleive some gamers might be a bit disapointed 
 with the replay value.
  
  I could probably go on for hours on all the features this game has that are actualyl very cool 
 and unique, but if you want to hear about all that mumbo jumbo im sure there are plenty of reviews 
 with nothing but that.
  
  I beleive that in the end, HL2 is a very solid game, and a top teir FPS, but i cant help but beleive 
 that it could have been much much more. Perhaps im just being spoiled by genre blending games like 
 Deus Ex and Vampire Bloodlines, or maybe im just getting a lame trigger finger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TzPsyco
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2004 5:40 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best PC shooter ever created its so immersive and the gameplay is so easy 
 to pickup even for novice FPS shooters that it makes it a perfect holiday gift for any FPS fan.
 
  First off i would have to say the graphics are the second best in charecter models to date in 
 ANY video game they truley redefine the world realism as we know it in games.
  The AI is a perfect mix and the difficulty levels that are presented are handled perfectly.
  
 The storyline never really forces you to sit through cut scenes etc and keeps the action going.
 
  Great Job Valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazimex_0813
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2004 1:44 am PT
Review:  My lord as an opening all I can say is this is in my top 5 games of all time. Anyone that says 
 it did not live up to the hype is plain idiotic. I myself did not really hype this game, but my 
 friends started buzzing about it so I gave it a try. This is Gaming at its best. Well lets start 
 the review.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is top-notch. There is always something to do. There are either numerous enemies to 
 slay or a puzzle to solve. Do not worry about the puzzles. This by no means is a Metroid Prime 
 type game. The puzzles rely heavily on the physics engine and are fun and really show what the 
 engine is capable of. The controls are also strong. Pretty much all the necessary keys are close 
 together so you wont need to reach to the other side of the keyboard to perform an action. Movement 
 is pretty easy as well, but this is its weakpoint. Sometimes do to glitches you will get stuck 
 places. You will always get out of these somehow, but during fighting it gets annnoying. This happens 
 most in tight spaces. This is easily the games worst aspect.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Well what can I honestly say that you dont know already. The money put into my rig really payed 
 off. This game is the closest we have gotten to real life yet. The developers really put effort 
 into the graphics. The animations are the best ever in a game. There is always something to make 
 you say wow in this game. Everything is just right. Other games need to follow in its footsteps. 
 Gosh I hate normal mapping. For me it is normal mapping is just a way to put no effort into graphics. 
 Just make everything look like toys. HL2 did not do this. Fantastic job done.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is superb. This is honest to God the best sound we have received yet from a game. 
 Surround Sound just kicks ass. The best aspect of the sound is the gunfire. Distance really plays 
 a part in the sounds coming from them. The farther the enemy is the more of a ecoey sound it will 
 make. The time put in shows. I go to shooting ranges and the game sounds real. There is one thing 
 horribly wrong about the sound. Stuttering. This is annoying and painful. If someone is talking 
 while an in-game load occurs they will repeat the same thing over and over. It is like a broken 
 disk. This really is nothing and I know I am over reacting, but I couldnt help but to shake my 
 head in disapproval when it happened.
  
  STORY
  
  The  story. Ya there really isnt 
 a story in HL2. Well there is but it isnt a in-depth story. The games story is pretty much straight 
 forward. There are some shocking moments, but there is nothing really to make you think. There 
 really is no need for story in a game of this caliber, but I was a little disappointed that it 
 was not a big storyline. The story can be best described as cool. The story is just there to make 
 you feel cooler. It makes you feel like you are put on different missions for different causes 
 by the GMan. Let me just say, without the Gman, the story would be crap. He makes you fell hopeless 
 and bad ass at the same time. Just dont expect a huge step from the 1st HL's story.
  
  OUTCOME
  
  Overall this is definately in my top 5 games of all time no doubt. The story really 
 is nothing to talk about since......... well there really isnt a story, but just like the first 
 HL this game has some of the most memorable moments. This game is not bug free, but patches will 
 come for it. This is certainly not the best game out there, but it is not to be missed for any 
 reason. For me 2nd best game of this year. Do not miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2004 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Like most PC FPS gamers, I've looked forward to Half-Life 2. After over a year of delays, I somewhat 
 lost interest in it but my interest was sparked again as the release date drew near. Was Half-Life 
 2 worth the year of delays and ultimately, the wait? Yes and no. Yes, because it is a great game. 
 It's full of action, has great graphics, great sound, a well written storyline, and does a wonderful 
 job of making you feel like you're in a sci-fi film. However, it is just another FPS game and ultimately, 
 is nothing new. Then again, how exactly would you revolutionize the FPS genre? 
  
  Overall, great game. Personally, I liked it better than the first Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gerrelli
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2004 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 lives up to every aspect that was so anticipated. From the weapons, to the your friends 
 and foes to the storyline which I am currently half way through. Not sure where Doom 3 wins the 
 graphical trophy as I personally think this game had far more realistic graphics. The vehicles 
 are spot on as well.
  
  The sheer massiveness of this game makes it hugely appealing, the ourdoor levels compliment the 
 first game and although this one doesn't re-invent the wheel what it does do is introduce a world 
 full of realistic physics and immersive gameplay that allows the player to completely emerge themselves 
 in the story. The set pieces work perfectly and leave the player in awe. Valve have done an amazing 
 job and anyone slating the game should merely stop playing it, I'm sure the odd one or two won't 
 impact Valve's income enough to stop them making Half Life 3 which for me will be as anticipated 
 as HL2.
  
  Good work Valve, next time try scheduling your deadlines a little better :oP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2004 9:15 am PT
Review:  This game has been on the frontlines of gaming for a couple of years now, but now we finally get 
 to see what all the fuss was about and if all the hype was true. Well let me just tell you right 
 now that the hype is no more, because this game will go into the books of all-time great games. 
 I am not a fan of first person shooters and wasn't really a huge fan of the first half-life, but 
 this game has grasped me and has yet to let go. 
  
  I was sitting in the store, wondering if I should fork over the 55 dollars for the game or not, 
 this older man came up to me and said, that is the greatest game ever made for any console. I wasn't 
 so sure, but I forked over the money and now I can honestly say it may not be the best game ever 
 created, but it is a game that puts technology to use and really shows off what it is made out 
 of! 
  
  The only problems I have had have been stability issues, but I have been able to work through them 
 with new hardware drivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tokyopimp_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2004 8:26 am PT
Review:  Fifteen so years of gaming, a lot of gaming. One experiences much in those fifteen years of gaming, 
 from being a plumber who has a grudge against turtles, to a Ninja who can run up walls, to a scientist 
 who opens an unlikely rift in time and creates hell for he and his coworkers. Though a lot of great 
 gaming moments have been logged by me, I cannot possibly remember a better gaming experience than 
 playing Half-Life 2. It is quite simply the greatest action game ever made, arguably the greatest 
 game ever made and it will ultimately change the way we look at games. As I am writing this, there 
 are probably four or five developers of first person shooters and action games, or hell any game, 
 that have just got done playing through Half-Life 2 and realized they need to go back and rethink 
 everything in there games. 
  
  I am utterly exhausted, exhilarated, and ultimately left with more answers than questions with 
 HL2, but it doesn't matter, those 18 or so hours in the eyes of Gordon Freeman, the Free man 
 will never be forgotten, not one second, not one millisecond. Imagine playing the lead in your 
 favorite action movie for 18 hours, this is what playing this game is like, never a dull moment, 
 near perfect pacing, and action that is so fun that you'll forget you're playing a game. In fact 
 it's the first game in awhile where I didn't feel like I was playing a game, rather I was in that 
 world.
  
  And what a world, the graphics in HL2 and the environment that are rendered are as close to real 
 as any game has ever come, from the pseudo European buildings of City 17 to the absolutely stunning 
 water, water that looks so good it's almost scary, if you're afraid of water I think this game 
 is going to be the first bit of virtual water that may also scare you. The game presents a graphical 
 presentation that has surpassed every single game, including the amazing graphics of Doom 3. And 
 then the animation of the NPC's puts the game over the top, it's the first game where the characters 
 convey emotion through facial animation, exactly like human beings. We've had great voice acting, 
 and cinematic in games for years, but never have any of these games had more than a stiff character 
 flapping his mouth up and down to the voice acting, in HL2 they talk, and they look like there 
 talking, not an actor behind an avatar talking, and thats what sets HL2 apart from the rest of 
 gaming world. When Barney sarcastically tells Gordon at the start of the game, that he sees how 
 his MIT education has paid off, after Gordon was told to simply flip and switch and then congratulated 
 by Dr. Kliener, you see the sarcasm in Barney's expression, something no other game has ever properly 
 conveyed. There is emotion in Half-Life 2, and this emotion isn't conveyed through a million dollar 
 FMV like every other game. During the middle portion of the game, there is a small town you stop 
 at on your trip with the dune buggy, there you must hold the Combine off with the help of 4 NPC's, 
 you eventually run up to a light house to grab some RPG ammo to shoot down an aircraft attacking 
 the town, after the 10 minute battle, and your in the clear, you'll go back down to the town and 
 the rebels fighting with you are obviously worn out, there leaning on buildings and you can see 
 there distress. This is the attention to detail that HL2 has, it's such a small thing but such 
 a huge thing at the same time, it hits you, it hits you that these people really are struggling 
 for there lives, and they look up to you.
  
  The sound the voice acting, and the music in the game are all done extremely well, though I sometimes 
 think some of the tunes don't fit the action. Usually a electronic track will hit during an exciting 
 point during the action, and more often than not it fits the scene, but I wonder if a more orchestral 
 score would have done even more to lift the emotion in this game. That said, the music is overall 
 very good, and the sound effects, and ambiance are flawless, this game really has just about the 
 best sound effects of any game out there. The voice acting is perfect, though you'll realize that 
 pretty much one guy plays the voice of all the minor male npc's in the game. Two male actors would 
 have probably been a bit better, but it's only an extremely minor annoyance. All of the main parts 
 however, are excellent, really great work, and a benchmark for anyone doing voice over work in 
 gaming. 
  
  Through the 14 chapters you'll escape the Combine forces through train tracks and underground railroads, 
 fight through a zombie invested town thats scarier than all of Doom 3, race across a canal with 
 a hover boat, decapitate zombies with saw blades, jump a bridge with a dune buggy, gain control 
 over fierce bug like aliens that will do your bidding, fight 20 story towering mechanical oppressors 
 called striders who's only job is to kill anything that moves, and fight your way through the towering 
 citadel thats a reminder to all of the citizens of City 17 who there benefactors are, the ones 
 that want them to throw away there human instincts. 
  
  If there is a flaw in HL2, is simply that it's not perfect, and we all know that nothing is perfect. 
 But HL2 is about as flawless as a game can get, and that's enough for me to recommend this game 
 to anyone, even those with modest PC's should be able to enjoy this game as it scales very well 
 to even systems filled with three year old parts. 
  
  And all this, 18 hours of pure bliss, pure gaming, pure enjoyment, and though the ending may not 
 be to everyones liking, it is the G mans liking, and ultimately the G man is Gordon's Benefactor 
 and Gordon his pawn. And all this, one of the greatest gaming experiences ever, If gaming could 
 not be called art before, this will change everyones mind, Half-Life 2 is art, and nearly flawless 
 art at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGelGel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2004 7:13 am PT
Review:  I have personally been waiting for this game since I first finished Half Life which was some time 
 ago, and I can honestly say that I am dissapointed in VERY few areas, in fact the only area that 
 I am dissapointed in is certain aspects of the graphics. While the character models are absolutely 
 phenomenal, and I love looking at them speak, move, and make great facial expressions, I was dissapointed 
 in the lack of texture detail, Unreal Tournament 2003 was much more detailed in that aspect. Okay, 
 well, I figured I would get that out of the way, EVERYTHING else in HL2 is amazing and extremely 
 entertaining. There is no FPS I have played that is as much fun. It is without a doubt one of the 
 most addicting games I have ever played, and it never gets boring from start to finish it is intense 
 and exciting. While the story is quite deep, it is not a story told on the surface, it is one you 
 have to piece together on your own, and you are never really given very many answers, however that 
 did not bother me too badly where that makes another sequel just that much more to look forward 
 to. I think that no matter whether you are a serious FPS fan or not, you will enjoy this game, 
 and I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redraptor75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2004 4:27 am PT
Review:  I honestly was starting to worry. Why? Cause of a trend. For instance- Doom 3 started my fears 
 by, honestly, sucking. Its not that it was a bad game, its just that it wasn't a new game. It had 
 gameplay weaker than and scares that didn't even come close to a very similar (and better done 
 game) namely, Alien Vs. Predator 2. Sure the graphics were great, but the physics were hardly ever 
 used and the story was told, unlike System Shock 2, very boringly through the use of the PDA system. 
 Lets move on to Halo 2- huge dissapointment. Some decent parts but over all the battles outside 
 of the first 3 missions were nothing in comparison to the original, and the dual weilding only 
 added to that fact by making it a close-combat focused game, whereas the first one was large scale 
 war. Now, being that I'm not judging the multiplayer components of any of these games in the review, 
 I have to say the best gameplay came from Half-Life 2. This is truly the game we've been waiting 
 for with intelligent, non-power focused fighting (ala Doom 3 where a rocket launcher is your only 
 true friend) and levels where going through and checking places is worthwhile, and not boring (ala 
 Halo 2, where looking around was not only pointless, it was boring as hell) . 
  
  So what do we get with Half-Life 2 ? Well, the story did have some gaps, but Halo 2 had almost 
 too much of a story that it felt convoluted. Whereas Half Life 2 has this 1984-esque proletariat 
 struggle. But you get to fight the power, save the people and do many memorable things along the 
 way, from throwing circular saw discs at zombies in an abandoned town, to driving a dune buggy 
 along the beach, and even shooting down giant walking tripods. This is TRULY the ultimate science 
 fiction game (cliff hanger ending included) fairing far better than the other 2 in their attempts. 
 I give this a great score, with challenging gameplay that can be adjusted for difficulty on a wim 
 (That was a REAL help in the more counter-intuitive fights, which only popped up once or twice) 
 with a better ending level than all 3 to boot. I'd also like to say that this is absolutely the 
 BEST boss fight of any FPS game to date. Its got puzzles, its got insanity, but its a MOVING boss 
 fight. You really wanna knock this jerk's lights out, and you do so with finesse and not the typical 
 "shoot till you run out of bullets" fashion, making it a HUGE improvement on the original game. 
 I definatelly cannot wait for the possible expansions that valve will bring us (something in the 
 vein of opposing force) that might expand and explain more of the story, becuase yes a few questions 
 weren't answered, but hopefully we'll learn more over time. This could be very, very good. The 
 best part is, what we've got right here already has been.
  
  Sure it doesn't pack the graphical punch of Doom 3 in tight spaces, but it creates a feeling of 
 a WHOLE WIDE world that doesn't feel as repetitive as Doom 3 and has far more attitude than Halo 
 2. Also, its physics are 100% unrivaled. Maybe Doom 3 had better calculations and in Halo 2 you 
 can blow up bigger things with grenades, but Half Life 2 does everything from using a gun that 
 will knock a dumpster into an enemy to you picking up a used carton of chicken chow mein and throwing 
 it at civilians. You can pick up almost anything and everything you see, and then throw, stack 
 or carry it around. The gravity gun is the best weapon ever made for an FPS out of sheer versatility, 
 and the vehicles, while the segments are a little too stretched, give such a great sense of speed 
 and daring that is rarely even felt in most racing games. Oh and did I mention the beautiful, Square 
 Enix quality people? Wow. I mean some are better than others but for the majority, everyone looks 
 real. And unlike Doom 3, not everyone is a balding, round headed male with slightly asian features. 
 Everyone looks different, the monsters look awesome, and the combine actually look imposing. You 
 will want to save the people, you WILL want to run from the monsters, and you WILL want to struggle 
 against the oppressing Combine soldiers and their faceless evil. Go fourth the rebellion! 
  
  Not to mention all the story line, plot progressors, and character movements are so beautifully 
 directed that yes, its like being in your own movie, where you are the star. I felt myself shaking 
 Gordon's head towards the end when characters said someting and I felt he should say "no" to. It 
 just makes you feel like you're truly part of something greater, which I haven't felt since the 
 old days when MY name appeared in the text box while playing Final Fantasy VII. 
  
  Truly, this game is the "work of art" game of the year, not to mention the "best action" game of 
 the year, and the "best told story" game of the year. If it doesn't win, so help me God I'm just 
 giving up on gaming. Except for Half Life, that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocheambeau
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2004 2:47 am PT
Review:  The first Half-Life pegged the bar for this series at an unbelievably high level. Its immersive 
 storyline, expansive gameplay and excellent design changed the way the industry looked at FPS games. 
 In an industry that pumps out thousands of games a year, Half-Life's longevity and continued influence 
 is an undenyable testament to its quality. 
  Now, 6 years in the making, Half-Life 2 has finally arrived. The hubbub around the game's development 
 and status has been deafening for months. Hundreds (thousands? millions? nah, probably just thousands) 
 of steam subscribers waited with baited breath for midnight on 15th to get their already installed 
 copy verified and running. Which brings up the eternal question: Was it all worth it? 
  And, unfortunately, the answer is what it always is: of course not. Half-Life 2 is an excellent 
 game, but it is definitely not the equal of its predecessor. 
  Graphically, of course, there is no comparison. In the 6 years between the games, the visual standard 
 of games has risen exponentially, and Half-Life 2 takes full advantage of this. All of the snazzy 
 new tech your card can handle is in there in spades. HL2 trumps its competitors (much as HL1 did) 
 by ALSO having an amazing sense of style to go along with all the hardware goodies. The characters 
 look and move like the real thing. The facial animation and nuance of HL2 are absolutely unmatched. 
 It's amazing how much the NPCs can say without even opening their mouths. The environments are 
 incredibly detailed and well designed. When you begin the game, it really feels like you're immersed 
 in a living, breath world. 
  But what world would be complete without sound? Again, HL2 nails it. The voice acting is stellar, 
 the environmental audio is bang on with where you are and what you're doing, and everything sounds 
 beautiful. 'Nuff said.
  Unfortunately, that's where the game peaks. It looks and sounds beautiful, but the acutal content 
 of the game is not nearly up to par (remember, par is HL1, so par's really stinkin' high) . 
  No spoilers here, but the storyline is extremely predictable and basic. Most players should be 
 able to figure out the majority of it in the first 30 mins or less. It starts out very strange, 
 but doesn't follow up on it's introduction, which is a little disappointing. It's still an interesting 
 story, and it suits the game well, so it's not nearly as disappointing as it sounds. It's not HL1, 
 but what is?
  The real problem with HL2 is actually something that was touted as one of its biggest strengths, 
 and can be pointed out in 3 little words: The physics engine. Okay, i said it. You can stop yelling 
 at me. Nothing is WRONG with the physics engine. In fact, it's probably the best implementation 
 ever seen in a game up to this point. All of the puzzles, the way enemies react to being shot and 
 the interactivity of the environment are absolutely great. The problem pops up when you start to 
 realize that the gameplay has been hijacked by the physics engine and now revolves almost solely 
 around that one factor. The major offender is, of course, the gravity gun. Definitely an interesting 
 addition to the gameplay, but as a weapon it's clunky and unwieldy, and HL2 makes you use it as 
 such far too often. Which is really a pity, because the other guns (especially the plasma rifle 
 and rocket launcher) are such great weapons. All of the "real" weapons in HL2 are amazingly well 
 balanced and have a really solid feel to them. This makes it even more painful when you run out 
 of ammo for EVERYTHING have are forced to switch to the gravity gun. 
  And that's about it. Half-life 2 is a great game. It's definitely worth playing and the added bonus 
 of Counter-strike: Source, Day Of Defeat: Source, etc. makes it a great value. It's unfortunate 
 that it isn't a successor to Half-Life (more of a sibling) , and that occasionally it forgets it's 
 a First Person Shooter and turns into a First Person Thrower (with the gravity gun) , but even with 
 these failings, it's still probably the best game of this year. Pick it up, you won't regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2004 2:33 am PT
Review:  Without hesitation I can easily and proudly say that Half Life 2 is the best gaming experience 
 I've ever had. This title was held for six long years by The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time but 
 it's time for a new champ. 
  
  If there has ever been a game that could be called nearly flawless it would have to be HL2. Simply 
 one of the most breathtaking games ever, it makes the long and painful development hell worth it 
 and it's every bit as good as we have expected.
  
  If you haven't played the first game (which you should) you'll know you play as the mute (not really, 
 you just never hear him) scientist from Black Mesa Research named Gordon Freeman who accidently 
 assists in unleashing a portal from an alien world where blood thirsty beasts attack everyone in 
 the facility and you must fight a one man war against the monsters. The sequel is set an unspecified 
 amount of years later and Freeman is oblivious as to what has happened since that fateful day. 
 The world is in shambles and the aliens and a mysterious force known as the Combine have taken 
 control of the world it seems. Now it is up to you to save the world from the wrong you unleashed 
 back at Black Mesa.
  
  First and most noticably is the outstanding graphics which are powered by Valve's revolutionary 
 Source engine. Even at medium settings the games detail will blow you away. The talented developers 
 have proved their worth and the long years of dedication have paid off. Reflections, shining, shading, 
 long draw distances, smooth models and animations are a few of the great features of the engine. 
 Many unique effects are applied to maximum effect which truely enhance the experience. The shadows 
 are the weakest part of the graphics just because they did not play as big a role as in Doom 3.
 
  
  The physics of the game are truely amazing. While other games have used ragdoll death physics and 
 object physics, none have been as accurate and as realistic as HL2's. Every object obeys the laws 
 of gravity, buoyancy and friction. Everything looks great when getting smashed or just pushed around. 
 It's great stuff and will undoubtably change the face of games for years to come.
  
  While many developers focus on graphics so much that they seem to forget it's a game we are playing, 
 Valve doesn't disappoint us. The think-then-shoot style of gameplay that made the first game great 
 is back. In between breathtaking battles there is always some obstacle or puzzle blocking Gordon's 
 way which needs to be solved. They usually don't take long to figure out and often take the physics 
 ability and use them to advantage. Some fun vehicles are put into play as well as some interesting 
 weapons. The most noticable is the gravity gun which plays with Half-Life 2's incredable physics 
 and allows you to use anything from beer bottles to washing machines as projectile weapons when 
 your ammo is depleted. Hey, it works better than the crowbar!
  
  There isn't much to say about sound except it's incredible. Some sounds from the last game have 
 been carried over just to be consistant but the new weapons, the creepy Combine and great voice 
 acting is top notch. Also during heated battles you can really feel the adrenaline pump with the 
 great vibe of the techno music in the background. It's just great.
  
  While there is no multiplayer function for Half-Life 2 itself which is a shame because it would 
 have been fun to see some online Gravity Gun wars, there is Counter-Strike Source. The updated 
 version of the classic mod of Half-Life 1 which has become one of the most played online games 
 ever. The updated version uses Half-Lifes amazing engine to give a truely up to date feel and look, 
 while the gameplay is thankfully unchanged the graphics have a major overhaul to make them look 
 top notch and add new life to the game. Also for you non-CSers out there you'll get to love the 
 upcoming mods the HL community will no doubt pump out.
  
  In a nutshell if you don't play this game you aren't just missing out on one of the most defining 
 games in history but you're missing out on one of the best games ever made. Half-Life 2 has changed 
 the gaming industry forever, now all we have to do is wait. Wait for Half Life 3. Happy camping. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2004 2:24 am PT
Review:  First off the install is horribly botched. If you choose to not install Counter-Strike (the ONLY 
 install option besides the location) the install fails. Luckily for me it was a known issue and 
 the fix on the Web (you HAVE to install it) . After that you get to the online registration for 
 Vue. This turns out to be bogus, marketing fluff NOT the game registration but you don't learn 
 that until later. Then you finally get to the game registration that requires an Internet connection 
 and then ERROR. Well it turns out my firewall was blocking the sign-up but the game interface does 
 not say 'can't connect' or anything remotely helpful I just got some bogus error. All of this is 
 insanely annoying for a game everyone knew would be a hot seller.
  
  Anyway, once installed, registered and running the game is simply gorgeous and the sound and music 
 awesome. Best of any game to date, period. Blows away Doom3 and runs in full glory at high res 
 with no problem on good hardware (again better than Doom 3) .
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect but with an excellent physics engine. The in game character 
 interactions are the best ever done. The characters can actually EMOTE to a small degree and do 
 simple things like look at you as you move and follow you with their eyes. You really have to see 
 it.
  
  Now having said all that the story is very disappointing and quickly predictable. Worse, the first 
 few levels of the game are rather boring as are some later ones. Things that are novel at first 
 are way over done and you just feel "ok, let's move on" but then you get more levels of the same. 
 The game does a great job of guiding you through each level without being obvious but I did need 
 to use a cheat guide for a few tricky spots. It took me around 40 hours to finish and I have no 
 desire to play the whole thing again but will re-visit some particular levels. The save system 
 allows you to save at any time and also aut-saves for you so you can easily go back.
  
  Overall it is a gorgeous looking/sounding game with an OK story and average gameplay. It blows 
 Doom 3 away but I think Far Cry still had a more interesting story/levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detr1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 23, 2004 1:34 am PT
Review:  Periodically a game comes along which raises the bar. Along with a few others this is the one which 
 will put pressure on other developers. Let's not kid ourselves this game takes the FPS category 
 to another level. 
  
  I will be brief and start with the negatives. The mandatory Steam log in is meant to be revolutionary 
 (new distribution channels/authenticity check) but needs to be improved. It absolutely turns me 
 off to have to log in initially and then through each load cycle. No matter how you slice it I 
 don't like it. Period. For me to nit pick other areas is unnecessary. This game is sound in all 
 areas and great in most.
  
  Without reviewing every part of the game I will touch on what I find revolutionary about the game: 
 
  
  I'll start with the visuals. The water is unbelievable. I mean I feel like I am walking/driving 
 in water. The glass displays look like real glass and the tinted/wavy glass dropped my jaw. How 
 about when you shoot glass and it breaks like you are shooting car glass (doesn't shatter the whole 
 thing) I thought that was a great touch. Those billboards/monitors that play the oppressive media 
 look more realistic than anything I have ever seen in a video game.
  
  The character models: What amazed me was how the character eyes follow you and how real the facial 
 movements were. Look for this to become the standard over the next few years. 
  
  The new weapon that allows you to pick up items and fire them is so incredible. It encourages you 
 to look at alternate ways to complete a level. I kept trying different things as I was going through 
 the levels. You can play defensively/offensively or a combination of both. It really adds individuality 
 to the game. I like to play slowly and defensively. Another person I watched played fast and furiously. 
 We use the weapons very differently thus go through the levels differently. What a great idea.
 
  
  Lastly the game is incredibly deep with a lot of detail and thought. From the baby crying sounds, 
 the recurring G-man, the character development, the graphics and through the gameplay this game 
 is money well spent. 
  
  Ultimately you will see many of the ideas Valve has incorporated into upcoming games. Without companies 
 like Valve, games go through the a couple year cycle of seeming so repetitive (especially with 
 big companies cookie cutting games) . So appreciate what this is: Another step in game evolution!
 
  
  Well done! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediKnight15
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2004 11:57 pm PT
Review:  When you first begin the game immediatly you will be amazed at the graphics. The face animations 
 and graphics are the best of any game to date. The overal graphics are just as good if not better 
 that Doom 3. The Story although not as revealing as some might want, keeps you wanting more and 
 more. My take on Half-Life 2 is that it is a middle or transition part into a much bigger story 
 and therefore Valve did a good job at revealing just enough to make you ponder for hours about 
 the story. Some may be dissapointed at the ending of the game, but believe me when it fits perfectly 
 into a "Half-Life" ending. The guns sound and look great and the gravity gun is awesome. The physics 
 engine is astonishing and makes the battles in the game entertaining and fun. There is an enourmous 
 amount of different gameplay in the game and this is definity a plus. Half-Life 2 covers ever element 
 perfectly of near perfect. The reason this game doesn't get a 10 is for one because it should be 
 impossible for there to be a "perfect game", and two because of a few small things that could be 
 better. For one there are always going to be games that will eventually be better so there should 
 never be a 10 out of 10. But there were a few small things you can pick out that could be better 
 (if you dig really deep) . One is that the flashes from the guns do not light up surrounding areas 
 and the story couuld have been a little more revealing. That's it, theres really nothing to complain 
 about with this game. It has an excellent feeling to it while your playing and the characters talk 
 realistically and don't sound cheesy. The atmosphere of the game is outstanding. Half-Life 2 is 
 definitaly the best game out to date. Hopefully Half-Life 3 comes out soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertigofm_basic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2004 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Can Half Life 2 be summed up in a few sentences? No, will I try, oh yes. Half Life 2 is simply 
 everything it promised to be. It superceded my expectations (yes the ending was amazing too) and 
 it was everything I could hope for. I don't know what more to say as I am just too damn excited 
 to type (since I just beat it) but I can not even imagine not owning this game. If you can buy 
 one game this entire year- HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 
 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 2! HALF LIFE 
 2! HALF LIFE 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewsir
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2004 9:30 pm PT
Review:  There are some things in this game that bring up the Matrix in my mind. I suppose thats one of 
 the reasons I was a little skeptical about how good this game was going to be. In case you cant 
 tell I was very disappointed in the direction and quality of the Matrix sequels. As well there 
 have been some highly hyped games recently that did not live up to there hype/pedigree. Doom3 comes 
 to mind, though I must confess, I have not played it; Ive come to that conclusion through many 
 reviews.
  
  I began playing Half-Life2 with an admittedly jaundiced eye, thinking ok, seen that before, not 
 much new there. I suppose I had prepared myself for a sequel that would give me much the same, 
 with prettier graphics. I was wrong. Gradually, I would see things in the game that would make 
 me think, thats pretty cool, or thats good and different. What was great was that it kept 
 snowballing until well into the game, I was becoming quite impressed. The hype it seemed, was deserved. 
 
  
  Now I suppose it could be argued that a game 5 or 6 yrs in the making should have been better than 
 this. Maybe, however in my way of thinking, a game this good should be appreciated regardless. 
 I cant say that HL2 is without flaws or frustrations. It certainly has those, which will prevent 
 me from giving it a perfect score. However, everyone should keep in mind that Valve had an impossible 
 task, I mean, how do you improve on what has been called the greatest game of all time.
  
  One such aggravation is some of the puzzle solving. Im not a puzzle person, and I dont like looking 
 all around, or acting like a dog chasing its tail. In my opinion, something like CODs F1 for 
 objective and or an objective compass wouldve been a nice/useful touch. On the other hand, having 
 to actually get out of game to find the solution on a forum may have been helpful in keeping me 
 out of a strait jacket.. (you know how wives can be:) ) So do I still need to mention its very 
 addictive? Which brings me to another gripe, maybe. Is it too short? Or is it so good, that you 
 play it so much youre done before you should be, if youd played like you should. You know, occasionally 
 acknowledging your family, and other normal human behavior :) 
  
  My other grievance, is the loading times along with some other minor glitches. I must say that 
 I dont consider these to be major problems. Ive done some pretty extreme things, system/file/configuration 
 wise to be able to play a game I really wanted to play. (Falcon4 comes to mind) No such system 
 gymnastics needed here. That said, Im thinking, a patch or two will get HL2 where it needs to 
 be in short order. 
  
  Now that the complaints are out of the way. Let me list some of what I liked.
  
  The realistic 
 physics. The save system, parts of this game could (would) be much more frustrating without it. 
 The water. The lip syncing. The attention to detail. Well, really theres too much to list and 
 any review you find is going to give you a good idea of the quality of the graphics, which is outstanding. 
 I would be remiss to not mention this one thing about the sound. I dont know what its called, 
 though Ive seen where people say its a grenade launcher, but it has the most satisfying sound 
 for any gun in any game Ive ever played, and Ive played a bunch. When you fire it, youll know 
 the one Im talking about ;) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorlok
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2004 8:50 pm PT
Review:  6 Years
  
  Thats a lot.
  
  But oh well here it is, and its actually just as good as it could get, it would have been outrageous 
 if it was released, but hey, no one would be able to play because of the high requirements.
  
  Going through the game youll notice some changes to the game from what you saw pre-hack, some 
 things that would have been nice to try out, but this is what happens when people cant wait for 
 the release. For shame
  
  As soon as you start the game, youll feel like youve just finished Half Life (the original) , 
 youre not quite sure whats going on, but it looks and feels very cool.
  This is actually the main theme of the whole game, youll never truly understand whats going on, 
 but youre having a blast doing it!
  As soon as youre getting your favorite set of clothes on, and the tool you know and love, the 
 game feels just like most other First Person Shooters, though with the exception that your enemies 
 most of the time actually seem like they want to survive, not just mindless drones running n shooting.
 
  Then theres the other small difference here from all other FPS games, the physics, which is 
 by far the biggest success of the game, this is so darn cool that you might find yourself wanting 
 to play with boxes and tables and whatever, rather then getting on with the game.
  Through out the game you get your standard set of weapons, a hand to hand weapons, some guns, some 
 machine guns, and of cause something to blow people to smithereens, they are nothing new and they 
 all work just like they should.
  The weapons list isnt really anything special, until, the greatest addition to any FPS game gets 
 in your hands.
  The Gravity Gun.
  This gun changes pretty much the whole experience, mostly because you are now able to pick up stuff 
 an protect yourself, or shot barrels, bottles, or whatever you want at people, or screw with people 
 with it, its all up to you.
  
  The game play is surprisingly varied, when I bought the game I was sure I was in for a 10 hour 
 nonstop shoot em up, but I was wrong. The first time the game play completely changes, is when 
 you get your boat, an incredibly fast machine in which you have to avoid helicopters, tanks, and 
 whatever the Combine might want to send at you. The steering works just as it should, unless it 
 would be nice if you could lock your view, but of cause, you can just let go of the damn mouse.
 
  
  Quite some time after this, you will get your greedy little hands on what looks like a homemade 
 car, and actually drives like one too, unlike the fact that you have a heavy duty machine gun on 
 the side of it.
  
  These two machines feels a bit like each other, but the car is a bit cooler then the boat.
  
 
  Then, you get your hands on another little item that again changes the game completely, the bait, 
 instead of having the most evil alien trying to kill your, they will now help you. Its simply 
 impossible to understand how effective and how fun it is too throw some bait against the combine, 
 and see how your nice little antlion pets will storm them with endless force.
  
  The game changes once more, where youll get control of a small team of soldiers, this can get 
 a little bit annoying because they are at times as stupid as a doorknob.
  
  The graphics is pretty much out of control it simply looks amazing. From the facial expressions, 
 to the animations, to the rag doll effect, to the reflections, and even to the textures, theyre 
 all masterfully made and look stunning.
  
  The sound is exactly like it should be, they reused some sounds from the old game and they fit 
 perfectly, and the new sounds is very distinctive and very cool.
  
  The game is done pretty fast though, but as long as it lasts its a blast, and for some reason 
 even though a lot of information is flying around, you never really get what the story is, or whats 
 going on, but thats not such a bad thing, because it ensures that we have 6 more years to wait 
 for the third game.
  
  The game pretty much kick ass from start to the end, if you like a lot of action, and have a computer 
 that can run it, you really should buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_104
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2004 4:13 pm PT
Review:  When the game first came out, I wrote a review that pretty much bashed the game based on its hype. 
 I'm writing this newly, edited review to give credit where credit is do.
  
  The technical notes are probably the most important ones of all. The Source is truly the savior 
 of this game (I don't believe having a mute introvert such as Gordon Freeman counts) . This game 
 is quite possibly the best looking game of the year. With video card, sound card, and processors 
 taking leaps into newer generations of technology, HL2 has shown us what our computers are capable 
 of.
  
  The only sour note in the game is its gameplay. Mind all of you readers out there, an 8 out of 
 10 isn't bad at all. The fact is, is that most FPS's have become so refined that the best ones 
 all pretty much play the same way. After that, it's about the story and how it is told. The first 
 Half-Life set the stage for a new a way of playing the game. Through the eyes of one Gordon Freeman, 
 we were allowed to speak and interact with people and some of the surroundings. It's a shame that 
 Half-Life 2 couldn't do the same. 
  
  The graphics are nothing short of outstanding. From the way the water reflects worldly objects, 
 to the paint buckets that can be thrown at your enemies leaving a white stain on them, from the 
 shadows and textures, to the all-around killer lighting effects, HL2 is the only game to show off 
 such beautiflul graphics as Doom 3.
  
  As far as the sounds are concerned, HL1 did a great job of incorporating sounds that seemed to 
 make the world feel very real in every sense of the word. Half-Life 2 did us the same favor. All 
 of the sounds we hear in everyday life seem to be, along with the Combine shooting at us. If any 
 of you have experienced a Combine soldier shooting at you in real life, my hat goes off to you.
 
  
  There isn't really anything else to say that hasn't already been said. This has been one of the 
 best years in video games ever. At least four great games (in my opinion) have come out this year 
 that we have all been blessed to have our senses reach out and touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahzim
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2004 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I, like many, have been waiting for this game since word leaked that it was in the making years 
 ago. I bought it the day it came out and here is my take on it.
  
  Installation- is fairly normal but once installed you have to let steam "decrypt" the game. This 
 was a major pain due to the number of other people trying to "unlock" the game as well. I am not 
 thrilled with having to register my game or being forced to use steam.
  
  Graphics: Superb graphics. The best I have ever seen in a game. From the moment I started the game 
 I felt as though I was Gordon Freeman.
  
  Playability: excelent. I never want it to end. I will be playing this game for a long time to come, 
 over and over and over.
  
  Storyline: The absolute best. When the game starts and you are told to cross the city to the doctors 
 labrotory you feel as though you could go anywhere. The whole time you are being shot at and "corraled" 
 in the right direction with help from locals and the feel of complete control I was taken in immediatley.
 
  
  AI: Brilliant. The opposing forces work together and do it very well. They will not run in the 
 open if there is cover around, but they will stand next to "explosives" at times. 
  
  overall: I rated this game a 9.4. I would have given it a 10 but being forced to use/wait for steam 
 each time I load the game and during installation really irritated me. 
  
  my system: epox 8k3ae kt333 MB, AMD 1600XP, 1gig of system ram ATI Radeon 8500 128mb ram, Creative 
 soundblaster live.
  Not the best computer to play on, but ABSOLUTLY no problems playing it and still seeing the beautiful 
 graphics and enjoying the game all around.
  
  Dead Meat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makr11
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2004 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I have waited for almost two years for the release of Half-Life 2. So when played the game at the 
 very moment of its availability I was about to burst with anticipation. When I assumed the role 
 of the protagonist Gordon Freeman and began to wander the streets of city 17 I was in a state of 
 pure gaming ecstasy. The beauty of the derelict world is so masterfully crafted that one can just 
 sit and explore for near hours. The game play is solid although not revolutionary and unfortunately 
 the story seems incomplete. So in order to get all of your questions answered we will have to wait 
 for the climatic sequel. Other than those two points the game is an example of how video games 
 have evolved from mere gimmicky entertainment into an art form. I am now truly excited to see what 
 future games will be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obi-Wan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2004 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is simply excellent, all the praise poured onto it is truly justified and is truly a 
 masterpiece to behold. Right off from the first chapter till the last, Half-Life 2 is not only 
 breath-taking but also engaging, there is never a dull moment. One of the most innovative weapons 
 to come out in a while would be the Gravity Gun, making almost everything in the game a potential 
 deadly priojectile. This certainly beats crawling around in the dark, cramped, claustrophobic confines 
 of a boring space colony (ala Doom 3) . Furthermore, there is a storyline to Half-Life 2, continuing 
 where it's predesessor, Half-Life 1 left off.
  All in all this game is a MUST BUY, be it over Steam or retail outlets. Half-Life 2 is definitely 
 Game of the Year, if not Game of the Decade. Worth the wait and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tank_Buster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2004 7:32 am PT
Review:  The graphics are fantastic and although they aren't as good as Far Cry or Doom 3's graphics, they 
 are still great and run smoother than any game with comparable graphics besides maybe Rainbow Six 
 3: Raven Shield. It does have some special effects that are unique like the black hole effect with 
 the strider cannon or the time freeze effect (to avoid any spoiling I won't explain this) . 
  
  The sounds are unmatched, with a surround sound EAX style sound system actually BUILT INTO 
 the engine. All you do is tell it how many speakers you have. The voices are top notch as are the 
 little details like the little bleep sound from cop radios (authentically taken from SWAT radio 
 sounds) or the subtle echoing yelling and laughing of children when I was walking in the playground 
 (perhaps long gone memories?) .
  
  *That really fast headcrab zombie that leaps around makes a screaming moan sound from a far distance 
 that I have never imagined even hearing that is very creepy. It only ranks up there with that horrible 
 buzzing sound that the ant-lions make when they fly up from behind you (with my 5.1 Creative speakers 
 it REALLY feels like they are coming up behind me) . 
  
  The gameplay is definately improved. Aside from the awesome new things everyone knows of, there 
 are other fixes like how the pistol and shotgun stay useful throughout the whole game (in HL1 the 
 pistol becomes useless 5 minutes after you get it and the shotgun only stays useful against alien 
 annoyances) . The aliens are less annoying and the annoying ones of the past game (Vortigaunt, houndeyes, 
 crazy tentacle mouthed bull things that spit acid) are gone. There are new kinds of headcrabs that 
 are pesky but not irritating and each has a corrosponding zombie. The ant-lions are incredibly 
 cool as well. My only gripe is why they made the MP7 a grenade launcher. The gun is little bigger 
 than most service pistols (although in-game the external view has the MP7 way bigger than it really 
 is) . They should have used an assault rifle instead since it uses seperate ammo from the pistol 
 anyways, unlike HL1 (thankfully) . 
  
  The plot combines themes from The Matrix, 1984, Dark City, Philip K. Dick books/movies like Imposter 
 + Minority Report, and even the two Warsaw uprisings of WW2. The game combines all of these perfectly 
 to give it it's own unique feel. I have a feeling there will be an addon where you get to be Barney 
 leading the resistance forces. That would be cool: a Half Life mod entirely based around the guerilla 
 military fighting against the Combine. Personally I think it would be awesome to be Alyx with that 
 little cell phone zapper thingy and that cool machine pistol she carries. 
  
  *The ending is not so lame as the last one and I personally think it was artfully done. It may 
 be a cliffhanger, and I normally hate cliffhangers, but it is PERFECT and I think it was done terrifically. 
 The gameplay leading up to the end of the first game fizzled as you no longer fought soldiers and 
 almost exclusively fought annoying aliens in Xen, followed by one huge lame boss shaped like a 
 fetus with mental powers. This does not and only gets cooler with a crazy new altered weapon. There 
 are plot references mentioned that are springing up all sorts of theories in my head and now that 
 I am playing the game again I am finding new evidence (Freeman's name: the one FREE MAN to save 
 us all) .
  
  All in all, I find very very little wrong with this game. It is a tad easy, but otherwise terrific. 
 MUST BUY!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencer1177
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2004 5:16 am PT
Review:  I just beat it and i just have one thing to say...... "AWSOME". The thing that most people will 
 talk about is the graphics. And rightfully so, they are just the best out there. The story is very 
 well told and protrayed, even without Gorden talking at all. The single-player is just the most 
 enjoyable. If you get the collectors edition you get a remake of the original game. It isnt greatly 
 redone but the water and ragdoll physics sure add to a great game. And with Counter-Strike source 
 it just sums up the whole shmeire. So what can i say O YAAAAA BEST GAME IN THE WORLD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Welis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2004 2:03 am PT
Review:  This game is just fantastic... Amazing graphics and lots of gameplay...
  A lot to experience good choice for a nice FPS!!!
  The sound might be better.. If you listen 
 to the reload sound you might notice something but otherwise good game...
  The A. l is alot to study... They are smart, have brain and useful to kill.
  I love the details 
 on every weapons, special the shotgun ( spas-12 )
  But by the way.. .This game is recommend to those who like FPS !!!!
  
  Destroy 
 
  NOW PLAYING : Doom 3 Half life 2 Star wars battlefront Counter strike source 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pizzaguy456
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 22, 2004 1:59 am PT
Review:  Like many of the gamers here at Gamespot, I have played and loved the original Half-Life. Since 
 the announcement of Half-Life 2 I have been anticipating the release of it. Now that it is out 
 it has nothing to hide. It takes everything beyond the standards making it a perfect game. First 
 off, the graphics are the best I have ever seen and the sound is so real that I felt I was in the 
 game. The sound was crisp and extremely realistic. Next, the game has amazing gameplay. If you 
 are one of those people who like to go after the big beasts in the game and fill that monster with 
 lead then this is the game for you. The Antlion Guards are a lot of fun to fight and it requires 
 quite a lot of skill. The game also incorporates a great extension to the story previously laid 
 out in the original.
  In the game, you play Gordon Freemen, one the few survivors of the Black Mesa incident. You awake 
 on a train and have hallucinations of G-Man who has been stalking you since Black Mesa. As you 
 step off the train you realize you are no longer in Black Mesa, you are in City 17 which is a Combine 
 controlled city where the great citadel stands. As you make your way through the game, the story 
 progresses and you learn more about these creatures that have taken control of Earth. The story 
 is truly amazing and at times it can get a bit tense. So if youre looking for a first person shooter 
 that requires skill and thought and you want a game with great graphics, sound and gameplay then 
 you should definitely buy Half-Life 2!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stereolite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2004 1:01 am PT
Review:  The single player portion of Half-Life 2 is the game's strongest attribute. The single player is 
 a decent length but not the huge amount that was first thought. This is still one of the best single 
 player experiences of any game on any platform though and is not something for any video game fan 
 to pass up. The game starts with you arriving in City17, a human city controlled by the "Combine" 
 who have taken over earth, but it's more of a prison than a city with the way the humans are treated. 
 Early on in the game you start by being chased by the combine and it is at this point you will 
 start to become immersed in the game. As you progress through the story you learn of human resistance 
 efforts and meet up with some familiar faces from the first game. The single player is complete 
 with large scale fights and vehicular excursions, and of course puzzles which are what made the 
 first game so unique. With the source engine the puzzles are like nothing you will ever have done 
 before in a game, you may be putting heavy objects on the side a long piece of wood to create a 
 ramp or you may be placing air tanks under objects in water to have the object rise so you can 
 get use it as a bridge across. Things like this and the way the game plays out makes it feel like 
 more than just your average run and gun first person shooter. There is always a downside though 
 and the downside to the single player is that there is not a great deal of variety in the weapons 
 or enemies for the most part and the vehicle ride's just last too long and the fun dissipates after 
 just driving for an hour with only short stops in between to open the way to go and drive more. 
 These are not major problems though and don't take away from the complete experience enough to 
 count off for. There is one other problem though, and that's the ending. Which you will have to 
 find out on your own, but it will leave you wanting more.
  
  The multiplayer that shipped is a revamp of Counter-Strike, the extremely popular multiplayer mod 
 for the original Half-Life, aptly named Counter-Strike: Source. A team based game of Terrorist 
 against Counter-Terrorists with true to life weapons and a slew of maps. It does show it's age 
 unfortunately with only two game modes, a bombing mode and hostage rescue mode. If you are a fan 
 of the original Counter-Strike and still enjoy playing then this is a very good thing. However 
 if you are new to the Half-Life world or sick of playing Counter-Strike from years ago then you 
 will probably not be to happy with what you get. Since this is the same game for the most part. 
 At this moment there is less than the original since only nine of the maps have been brought over, 
 and there is is only one type of player model for each team, but it is likely thatmore will be 
 added in the future. This is what you get with the retail game but there are also many other mods, 
 which may or may not be brought over to Half-Life 2.
  
  The game shines in game play thanks to the source engine, which sports the most realistic physics 
 of any game to date. The gravity gun alone makes the game worth the $54.99 price tag, being able 
 to pick up barrels and crates, desks and chairs, or any other object you can find in the game and 
 launch them and even use them as weapons against enemies provides hours of joy. This definitely 
 sets a new standard for other games to now uphold. At one point in the game you can even pick up 
 a circular saw blade and launch it to cut an enemy in half. Toward the end of the game you are 
 able to pick up enemies and throw them right back at the squad they came from. The game just has 
 that perfect feel and is in every way deserving of the highest praise in the game play department. 
 Though I do wish that I was able to shoot my team mates since they have a knack for standing in 
 doorways or walking over laser "trip wires".
  
  The major thing that I seem to disagree on the most from other reviews that I have read are the 
 graphics. While very good they are not the jar dropping graphics that so many reviews make them 
 out to be. Now a few parts of the game are just drop dead gorgeous, I will say that. Then there 
 are some parts that look worse than all the other first person shooters out there. Maybe I'm being 
 too harsh on it but I just don't see the graphics being worth a ten like everyone else.
  
  The sound is the worst part about the game. The voice acting during conversations is fantastic 
 but the music and the lines that your allies that fight along side with you say arent quite as 
 impressive. The music is composed of out of place techno music that pulls you away from the game 
 and takes you out of that immersive environment, it just doesn't seem to fit with the style of 
 the game. Luckily the music does not come around that much and doesn't last for too long. The lines 
 that you allies say aren't poorly done they just are just repeated too much, I can't tell you how 
 many times I heard. "I'll follow you Dr. Freeman", "Hey look it's Gordon Freeman" or my personal 
 favorite the line "Watch out Dr. Freeman", after I throw a grenade. The voice acting during the 
 conversations in the game make up for a lot of that. They are just superbly done along with the 
 animation of the characters speaking, which really brings them to life.
  
  Value is a tricky one for a couple of reasons. There is a long single player game here but the 
 multiplayer is just the classic Counter-Strike that we all know and love. As fun as Counter-Strike 
 is, it is still in the end the same game that's been out for years, with the same game play, weapons, 
 less maps, and less player models, but with upgraded physics and graphics. If that was where it 
 stopped then the value would be lower than what I've given it, but there is a lot of promise in 
 the mod community and there are also more older mods being brought over like Day of Defeat, a world 
 war 2 mod. So with that hope of things to come not having a new multiplayer is not going to count 
 off as much, it's a shame that they did not create a new kind of multiplayer game to take advantage 
 of the full power of source though. There could have been something new and great here which would 
 bring the value way up, but there isn't. That is the biggest problem with the game, the other problems 
 are small and for the most part can be over looked. Such as the car and hover rides which get dull 
 pretty quick and the annoyance of having to run the game through steam, which feels the need to 
 not find my games half the time and make me log in and out until they appear. Only the hope of 
 something to come saves it from getting below a 9 or even an 8 here.
  
  If you've read to here you know that I like the game, a lot. Even with the things that I have a 
 problem with at the end of the day I enjoyed it to a large extent, enough so to give it a perfect 
 ten in my tilt score. It's an epic game with large scale exciting battles that everyone needs to 
 play at least once. Final score - 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishPunk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2004 12:54 am PT
Review:  Six years ago Valve Software released a game that would revolutionize gaming as we knew it; Half-Life. 
 When everyone finished Half-Life they most likely had very good feelings towards it, except that 
 it left a major cliff hanger for a sequel. What did G-Man have in store for you, and what would 
 become of the world after Black Mesa? Half-Life established a base on how first person shooters 
 should be done especially the way the story was told. So Half-Life 2 has huge shoes to fill. Now 
 would the final product meet expectations?
  
  To understand Half-Life 2, one would need to begin with the announcement of the game. As one would 
 expect there was going to be a sequel but when it would be released is an entirely different story. 
 When it was officially announced and when everyone saw it at E3 of 03 the hype grew to a huge 
 mass that just kept growing, especially with such a short release date after the major announcement. 
 September 30, 2003 was going to be the day. With Valve never backing down from their stern position 
 on the September release, no one was expecting the train wreck that was about to occur. First came 
 the announcement that part of Half-Life 2s source code had been stolen. What had happened? Over 
 the next year Valve would have their work cut out for them. Throughout the end of 2003 and most 
 of 2004 Valve kept pretty quiet and no real news ever came out. Even E3 04 were people would expect 
 an avalanche of new info to be released it was pretty quiet for the most part. When finally during 
 late October the gold announcement came, and it would officially come to stores and be released 
 through Steam on November 16, 2004. Now the question was would it be worth the wait? Im here to 
 tell you, yes without a doubt it was.
  
  In the opening sequence G-Man tells you it is time. What better way to start off a game is with 
 the person you finished it last off with? Especially the mysterious G-Man. When the intro with 
 G-Man is finished you wakeup on a train heading towards City 17, the intro with the train feels 
 very nostalgic because you will remember the rail ride that brought you through Black Mesa in the 
 start of Half-Life. When you get off the train you will see the administrator; Dr. Breen. Of course 
 you dont meet him in person but rather him spewing out propaganda through the giant LCD. This 
 is where you will receive a lot of the info going on in the outside world. You start walking through 
 the station and you meet the Combine, your archenemies of the game. What a magnificent way to start 
 the game. You should expect a good 15-20 hours of gameplay. This maybe a tad short by some standards 
 but all of that time is time very well spent.
  
  The enemies in Half-Life 2 range from the annoying headcrabs to the tripod terrors that are Striders. 
 The enemy AI is great. The combine soldiers will take cover, rush, and flank you when needed. While 
 the menacing headcrabs and zombies will just come for you. Headcrabs wont give you much of a problem 
 except when they can sneak up on you and even then they arent anything to worry about. The zombies 
 will act very brain dead, they will walk towards you and stop at nothing, throwing anything in 
 their way towards you. There are also different variants of headcrabs, and have zombies that will 
 give them new characteristics. While I wont spoil any of these types for you this adds some more 
 depth to the game and will keep things interesting. One great touch was that zombies will cry in 
 terror after being lit on fire. These little things that Valve has done go a long way in the end. 
 You will meet the furious Ant Lions, which charge you and are quite fast, and can jump a good distance 
 to get you.
  
  The weapons of Half-Life are for the most part updates of their Half-Life counterparts. This however 
 is not a drawback because each works wonderfully and they look great. The gravity gun however steals 
 the show. One other very cool weapon is the pheropod which calls ant lions to your aid. It is really 
 quite a show watching some ant lions taking out some combine scum. As I have said earlier the gravity 
 gun makes up for any of the lack of weapons and cool gadgets that were in Half-Life. I cannot stop 
 raving about how much fun the gravity gun is and how useful it becomes.
  
  The Half-Life 2 source engine in my mind is the best engine to be ever to be released. Everything 
 about it seems better then ever. The most realistic physics ever done however in my mind are the 
 best part about it. The physics create a huge part in the game, and opportunities that would have 
 never been possible without it. Almost everything can be moved whether that means from you just 
 picking it up or grabbing the gravity gun and releasing the environment against your enemies. Have 
 cars blocking your buggy from going forward? Take out your gravity gun and push them out of the 
 way. Low on ammo without a lot of enemies around? Use your gravity gun and kill them with innocent 
 looking things, or use a saw blade and cut them all in a row. The possibilities are endless and 
 these possibilities create replay value. Even without the physics, the graphics in Half-Life 2 
 are draw dropping. The models, the skins, the textures are all beautiful. Now what good are all 
 these things without animation? Valve has clearly put lots and lots of love into it alone. I have 
 never seen game characters have such life. Especially the female lead role, Alyx. Who is the most 
 human character yet to be seen in a video game. She expresses so much emotion whether it is angry, 
 sad, or joy. At times you may just bring your hands away from the keyboard and mouse and watch. 
 This technology will make your enemies and allies have more life then any technology thought previously 
 possible.
  
  The sound in Half-Life 2 is magnificent. Assuming you have a nice 5.1 system you will be stuck 
 to your chair like glue. All the weapons sound right not too powerful and not to weak. The explosions 
 pack quite a punch. The voice acting in HL2 is superbly done. It features Robert Guillaume, Michelle 
 Forbes, and others. This all just fits into the immersion and greatness that is HL2.
  
  The loading times in Half-Life are carefully spread out and never interrupt in any action. They 
 are brief and never take you out of the immersion. You arent brought to a separate screen like 
 many other games. It is a simple message on your current screen. This makes the game feel like 
 one long level, with only a semi-apparent message to tell you that you are in a new part of the 
 game. Anyone who remembers Half-Life will remember the jumping puzzles. At times it didnt feel 
 like an FPS, it felt like a platformer in first person. Fortunately jumping puzzles are few and 
 far between. Also if you are expecting a lot of answers in Half-Life 2 you maybe a tad disappointed, 
 in that the game leaves off in a major cliff hangar that has you asking, what just happened? This 
 isn't as bad as it would have been if the game hadn't been such an overall pleasure to play. One 
 thing also new to Half-Life are vehicles. The vehicles that you can use in Half-Life 2 have controls 
 that are very responsive, and are a pleasure to use.
  
  The multiplayer in Half-Life 2 is Counter-Strike: Source, which is the update to the most popular 
 game on the internet. If you have been living under a rock for the past five years Counter-Strike 
 is a game where you have two forces: The terrorists and the counter-terrorists. On every map there 
 is an objective that must be completed at the end of the mission. Some maps require the terrorists 
 to plant a bomb, and the counter-terrorists to prevent that from happening. Other maps have counter-terrorists 
 rescuing hostages and terrorists have to make sure that the hostages dont make it to the rescue 
 zones. The game has quite a few different weapons. While this might be a turn off to some people 
 as it is slower gameplay then Half-Life if you give it some time CS: S can be fun. One major drawback 
 for new people to the game is that a lot of people have been playing a long time and getting good 
 takes some time. However if you are willing to take the time to learn, Counter-Strike is very fun. 
 Valve is also planning on continually adding more maps to counter-strike, along with new player 
 models. One major thing that would have been nice to see is a regular deathmatch for Half-Life 
 2 (which the first one did feature) .
  
  All in all Half-Life 2 serves as a pedestal that all first person shooters should follow. The source 
 engine is a work of art and will be remembered for quite some time. That followed by the vast immersion 
 in the game, believable characters, excellent sound, and great multiplayer addition make Half-Life 
 2 one of the most complete packages ever released. Anyone with a PC that can run Half-Life 2 would 
 be doing themselves a huge favor buy going out and playing this work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2004 12:47 am PT
Review:  This is one of those titles that just cannot be missed. The graphics are stellar, the sound is 
 great, environment is very immersive, physics engine is the best I have ever seen, and so far has 
 had memorable battles that I could play over and over. The graphics I would say are the best I 
 have seen in an FPS (even better pound for pound than Doom 3) . Doom 3 was better "looking" but 
 if you can't play at good frame rates (I have a 9800 Pro) then what is the point? HL2 screams even 
 with settings providing fairly high detail.
  
  Some bad as others have mentioned:
  
  1. Gameplay - yes, it is a FPS that doesn't do much new. AI could be better
  2. Storyline - nothing 
 like the first Half Life. Definately could use some help in this dept.
  3. Chop - there seems to be a bug that causes a studder once and awhile - they are supposedly fixing 
 this
  
  Get this game - you can definately see the 5 years of development come through your screen and 
 provide a great experience for your well earned $50.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 21, 2004 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Having played through the single player game about half-way and spent many hours on Counter-Strike: 
 Source, it's clear that Valve has done it again. The action in single play is non-stop and keeps 
 surprising you and challenging you in new ways. I will probably play through the single player 
 game again after completing it. Though CS: Source is pretty stripped-down compared with the options 
 and mods that are available with the original, it's only a matter of time before modders pump out 
 some awesome new games. Can't wait for an Opposing Force or Blue Shift rehash with the new engine 
 and environment. If you are a PC gamer, you must own this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20073605386445364228807832396140-Neil4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2004 6:32 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing in every way. Graphics, sound, value (especially collectors edition) , and most important 
 gameplay. my only beef with this game is the constant load times. and yet it still is a masterpiece.
 
  
  
  
  
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 
 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 
 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 
 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 
 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  i can't wait until half-life 3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: retartedclown
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of FPS but I have to tell you... this game just plain rules. It is one of the 
 best games Iv'e ever played and few surpass it in any of the categories. The graphics are top-notch, 
 the sound is very realistic, and the gameplay is the best part. The physics are amazing, and i 
 just love how all the world is so alive. Just walking around and looking at whats happening is 
 half the fun. No other game goes that in depth to show you how others in the world are reacting 
 to the situation. Do yourself a favor and pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VibratingDonkey
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 5:13 pm PT
Review:  You awake a in a train just about to come to a halt at City 17's railwaystation. Two passengers, 
 both dressed in blue travel with you. They have a tired, depressed look to them. They mumble something 
 before the train stops and the door slides open. And you take your first steps into the great unknown.
 
  
  After a few steps a flying mechanical device flies over to you. It flashes your eyes as it takes 
 your photo and flies off. A voice is heard throughtout the locale. It belongs to the man on the 
 big screen placed on the wall. "Welcome to City 17." Somehow you don't feel very welcome. To the 
 left a guard pushes a man into his luggage and orders him to move on. You walk up to the guard 
 and take notice of his intimidating presence. A blank emoteless gasmask covers his face, his voice 
 is muffled through a radio, and he raises his baton and pushes you away if you get too close. There 
 is a very threating atmosphere wherever you go in this station. You feel as helpless as all the 
 other bluedressed citizens as you are channeled through the COmbine security. The citizens are 
 either worried, insane, paranoid or afraid. You on the other hand is completely dumbstruck by how 
 well this "intro" is designed. And not just the intro, but pretty much the entire game.
  
  The graphics can in a word be described as natural. Every single location feels like it's been 
 created from the ground up. The attention to detail is amazing. You see grafitti where you expect 
 it, a doll in the playground, the fact that there actually is a playground, posters, litter, bottles... 
 And the textures are the best in any game ever. Sometimes I have to stop and stare at them. What 
 else that needs to be mentioned are the animations, and especially the facial animations. Never 
 before I say. I can't bare to look at people in other games any longer. They move so fluid and act 
 so natural. And they look so realistic it's almost scary at times.
  
  Something else that's realistic is the physics. I'm sure you've heard of it. Havok-based physics 
 have been used in dozens of games already. But never has it been this well implemented. Almost 
 everything you see can be used in one way or the other. Usually I use the physics to kill miscellaneous 
 stuff. And it's great fun! Physics that are not all that fun belongs to the Buggy. I hate that 
 thing. It's like driving a really fast lawnmower... I think. On more than one occasion have I flipped 
 the damn thing, in the middle of a couple of antlions no less. Those buggers are annoying and can 
 fly short stretches and land in front of you. That's very annoying. They never come in ones, but 
 fives or sixes. That's annoying. Keep away from the sand or you'll have more of them hacking away 
 at your face and arse. Annoying. But they're great creatures once you get your squeaky testicle 
 thingie and can command the bastards. 
  
  And that's another thing about HL2. It's so incredibly varied. Every chapter almost feels like 
 a new game. In one chapter your guided through the station. In another you're driving a floating 
 tuboat. Then you're in an abandoned town called Ravenholm fighting hordes of nastinessess. The 
 only thing that's not as wellpaced are the drivingsequences. They last a bit too long, and they 
 almost feel repetitive. Drive through tons of crap and enemies, stop, find switch to unlock gate, 
 continue. Repeat. And a thing which completely stops the game is the cursed loading. Can load for 
 30 seconds, and sometimes the space between these loadpoints is a bit too narrow. Now when I've 
 gone into this negative point frenzy, I might as well continue. The allies following you around 
 can be lousy at getting out of your way. If it was possible to kill them I think I would have a 
 couple of times. 
  
  Killing stuff is otherwise a great way of killing time. You are attacked by pretty much the same 
 enemies found in Half-Life. The Combine is your primary enemy. They come in two variations. The 
 Police and the Overwatch. Overwatch or nastier and have a cooler name. And you have the different 
 kinds of headcrabs. Some are normal, some are fast, some or poisionous, some are attached to people. 
 Tada, the Zombie! Here you have three different species. The normal one with a white headcrab on 
 it's head and a hole in it's stomach so you can see the delicous intestines. You have the big Spiderpulp 
 which consists of spiders and pulp. Last there's Spiderman! No, really. They jump around and climb 
 everywhere, being stupid, with trying to kill you and all. You'll waste these pests with a bunch 
 of weapons. There's not a whole lot of weapons, but they work just fine they do. The Gravity Gun 
 is the most fun of course. There's nothing as satisfying as killing Zombies with madrasses. Or 
 flinging flying cameras at Combines. Audio I think is the only thing that Valve hasn't quite succeeded 
 with. Ambient sounds and voiceacting is superb. But weapons, explosions and the music could've 
 been a bit beefier. 
  
  And this is where I was gonna write that I'm tired of writing this crap, but instead I'm gonna 
 write: GO BUY THIS GAME; NOW! Fun, immersive, varied, welldesigned, absolutely fanfrickintastic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEETDude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2004 8:53 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 1 was considered a revolution and set standards for all first person shooters made after 
 it. The game became a classic with it's mixture of puzzle solving and it's shooter gameplay. The 
 community grew larger by day and it's deathmatch multiplayer was a blast. Soon enough, the flexible 
 engine became recognized and soon enough modders everywhere created some of the best multiplayer 
 mods we have ever played. Valve even was impressed and bought the mods off the community and expanded 
 upon them. The Value of the game started to triple.
  
  Half-Life 2 became one of the most hyped game to be created. It's out now, and it lived up to the 
 hype.
  
  You begin the game on a train after marveling at the G-Man's great quoteable phrase and his facial 
 animations. You soon walk off the train and see what it's like to be an immigrant. There are cyborg-like 
 men everywhere. All the same height, voice, and look. I knocked objects over, and I found out I 
 could pick up any light-weight object I please. I threw trash at one of the cyborgs and soon enough 
 he was chasing after me with his tazer. I then knew how much fun I was going to have over then 
 next 18 or so hours. The game starts off slow and hudless. You try to find out what to do and you 
 follow around.
  
  You then approach a station where they photograph you, check your identity, ect. The people in 
 front of you in the line inch on and you enter into the caged area. Your access gets denied and 
 several snapshots are taken. A cyborg directs you through a security door and you follow one. He 
 leads you to an interrogation room. He asks the other cyborg in the room for some privacy. *Minor 
 Spoiler   * The cyborg takes off its helmet and it turns out its Barney from the last game! He 
 is probably the most comedic character in the game, and his facial expressions are great. *   
 
  The gameplay is just simply incredible and the experience gets better as the game goes on. The 
 gravity gun is the most genius idea yet for a weapon. It changes the strategy you could use in 
 every situation in the game dramaticaly.
  
  The graphics are staggeringly awesome. Besides a few rare low resolution textures, everything else 
 is perfect. The game overall looks better than Doom 3 when you include the physics and ragdoll. 
 The features used on any kind of metal or any surface period is amazing. I can't believe how good 
 it looks with my mid end system. I ran the game on the Highest settings with all the extra features 
 on 1024x768. I have a Radeon 9600, 512 DDR Ram, and a 2.0 GHZ AMD Athlon. It ran better than expected.
 
  
  The sound is great too. I couldn't wish for anything to be changed, and the voice acting is pretty 
 good. It is all very enjoyable.
  
  The multiplayer is AWESOME. I couldn't believe it when Counter Strike : Source was announced to 
 be the multiplayer portion for Half Life 2. Counter Strike was the only game I played for the last 
 4 years. I love Counter Strike. I was in heaven. Except for the fact that HL2 ran overall better 
 than CS Source did on my computer, it was just fine. The value gets a 10 because the upcoming mods 
 for the game are going to be great. Also, the silver package I purchased over steam comes with 
 Half Life + All of its expansions and mods. It's great and soon they will release Day Of Defeat 
 : Source which is a World War 2 team + Class based game. I can't wait.
  
  Conclusion, is that this game is too good to be true. If you have a computer, buy this game, as 
 long as you have atleast the very low requirements, your good to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigKr33
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2004 8:46 am PT
Review:  Lets put it this way, this game is simply a masterpiece. The games mechanics, creativity, and technology 
 really pay off to make the most beautiful game that will make you scream for more. 
  
  Running this game with a AMD64 3200+ with 2x512mb (dual channel) , with a sapphire 9800XT and two 
 10000rpm raptors in raid 0 make this game looks incredible. I have every setting at High with Antialising 
 6x, and AF16x running at a standard 1024x768 res. averaging frames between 60-90, and at times 
 getting frames 100 to150+. The performance of this game and my machine don't miss a beat to detail 
 and smoothness.
  
  Half life 2 starts you out a train station in city 17. The first thing you do when you walk out 
 that train station is you look up at the ceiling and down at the floor for its superior detail 
 and quality of its realism. You see people and their facial expressions and how they come alive 
 with emotion, I mean you can see the glare in their eyes at the proper angle of light source. As 
 you cruze around the station and out to the courtyard your mouth just instantly drops to the amazing 
 realism of the buildings in your surroundings. The buildings and the stone ground look so real 
 that at a certain distance you would think it was photograph or something. The shadows and light 
 sources are absolutly gorgeous, they are way beyond Doom 3 or even Far Cry's lighting and shading 
 nuff said. 
  
  Half life 2 takes advantage of the source engine by having you solve puzzles that are required 
 to carry on through the game. The puzzles are really fun and aren't over done in anyway. In fact 
 the puzzles are placed evenly through out the game from start to finish. There really fun and keep 
 you busy between and during battles. You can always make use of the source engine, weither its 
 solving a puzzle to get throught the game or blocking an enemy by shielding yourself with a barrel 
 or even blasting an enemy with a saw blade using the Manipulator gun, in other words "Point Zero 
 gravity gun" if I'm not mistakin. The gravity gun was simply put in the game to make use of the 
 incredible physics in the game, but not only that to have some serious action that you would never 
 experience in other games. Half life 2 would not be complete without the Manipulator gun.
  
  The overall feel of this game is solid, everything is balanced. The level design is perfect 
 and the weapons all have their own advantages and disadvantages. The sounds of the weapons really 
 make the game towards feeling it, to crazy weapon sounds to exploding barrels that make your eyes 
 light up with enjoyment. The game itself just flows with damn near perfection in every aspect of 
 the levels and how they all come together to make one solid game. The A. I is good, they do take 
 cover when they need to and they of course put up one helluva fight too. Killing a combine solder 
 can be tough at times due to the armor they wear, but for the most part they are fun killing because 
 of the impact effects that the source engine provides. But if you ain't packin then get ready for 
 some high jackin because they now have vehicles that give you more driving force against your enemies, 
 literally? Though not the high point of the game, but it does allow you to have some fun freeroaming 
 and mowing down enemies with the vehicles potential. The buggy and the hovercraft do have weapons 
 epuiped to them, one of which has a gauss gun that allows you to send enemies flyin with a charge. 
 The vehicles do require some skill, there not the easiest in the world to handle. The hovercraft 
 is a little tricky to handle and can also be frustrating at times. The buggy on the other hand 
 can also be a little tricky at times to manuvier. Whenever you jump the buggy you always find yourself 
 flipping over and getting pounded by antlions which can be a little annoying. But overall its a 
 good feature to the game that adds some variety.
  
  Half life 2 should be owned by any first person shooter fan that wants an excellent gameplay experience 
 with jaw dropping graphics that exceed any of its predicessors. I look forward to see the source 
 engine in future titles in the up and coming years of pc gaming. But other than that Half life 
 2 is a classic in the making with every element from the first one that everyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danthegamingman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2004 7:54 am PT
Review:  Wow its been 6 years and thats the longest wait for a sequel I can recall. The question now is, 
 does HL2 live up to the hype? Will, yes and no. First let start off by saying that HL2 has possibly 
 the best graphics of any PC game to date. Its really a matter of opinion, because Doom 3 is spectacular 
 as well. The problem with Doom 3 was it was so dark most of the time that its truely hard to appreciate 
 it. However, you can see just how great Doom 3's graphics are in the more well light labratory 
 levels and anyone who has witnessed the Hell level at 1600 x 1200 on high settings, then you know 
 what I mean.
  That said Half-Life 2 is simply gorgeous to behold and the Source engine stands tall against all 
 comers. The environments are so detailed, the levels are massive, and it runs so silky smooth.
 
  
  Gameplay is where HL2 shines and its very addictive. Unlike Doom 3, HL2 has such varied levels, 
 missions, and the gunplay is very wide open to handle each situation. The penicle of intense action 
 is during the Street War XII: Final Stand. Its a huge intense battle against numerous Combine soldiers 
 and Striders. The battle rages from the streets to building rooftops in some of the most chaotic 
 and crazy intense battles I can ever remember and the physics are the greatest I ever recall witnessing.
 
  
  The weapons are sweet. I recall the Overwatch Pulse Rifle and its destructive secondary energy 
 shot were incredible. As well as, the Organic Gravity Gun gun and its physics laden battles slinging 
 combine bodies all over the place and hurrling enrgy balls at enemies, with there bounchy destructive 
 goodness.
  
  How varied is the gameplay? Well, you do battle alone, command a resistance squads, command Antlion 
 squads with bugbait {my fav} . You do battle on foot, on road in scout car, and over water in an 
 airboat. All battles are intense and the levels are huge. There are 14 levels that break down to 
 over 50 maps when looking at the official game guide. The levels and action never feel repetitive 
 over the course of this 15 to 20 hour unbelievable experience.
  
  Is this game revolutionary? Well I don't know is my answer, because there have been many great 
 FPS games over the years and many things have been done in the past. So, although it isn't innovative 
 per say, it seems to combine what I would call some of the greatest battles you could pick up from 
 FPS before it and has combined them into a game that in my mind has action sequences you will not 
 soon forget, if ever.
  
  Ok your probably wondering what the BUT is. It's the bad. Oh no, he said bad. I'm alittle disappointed 
 in the fact that HL2 has been in developement for 6 years and we didn't get a true HL 2 multiplayer 
 online component. It's true that Counter-Strike was redux with the Source engine and repackaged 
 for free, but honestly its not a subsitute for what we should and could have gotten with a HL2 
 multiplayer. As gamers and fans of this series, we all know we really have missed out on what could 
 have been truely special online play in the HL world. We should all be disappointed in this all 
 fanboyism aside and it hurts the replay value on what could have been the best overall PC FPS of 
 all-time with the proper HL2 multiplayer incorporated.
  
  I found HL2 to be alittle easy, which is often times an indication of weak AI. I played thru on 
 Normal and the little I have played on higher difficulty haven't generated significantly greater 
 AI reactions. Don't get me wrong the Combine do duck for cover and things like that, but when reacting 
 to the gamer they never seem to exhibit signs of tactically trying to manuver against like say 
 the Covenant do in the Halo series, which is the standard for which all enemy AI should be judged 
 by in today's standards.
  
  The sound is great and the explosions have deep base. If a grenade goes off or theres an explosion 
 close to you then the game simulates a loss of hearing for you. Its little things like that that 
 stand out in my mind and shoe Valve's efforts for the gamer being truely immersed.
  
  There is a problem with the sound and it couldn't be myhigh-end gaming PC cause as I did some searching 
 in various forums I found it wasn't just me having sound looping, which causes the game to freeze 
 from time to time. In my case, I have a new Audigy ES 5.1 with the latest drivers and was disappointed 
 to learn by trial ans error that to eliminate these loops that freeze my computer, I had to adjust 
 my sound accelaration and sample rate to their lowest levels. In all fairness though, the sound 
 still held its own in this form.
  
  In conclusion, HL2 is the possibily the greatest SP FPS currently on the PC. The sound flaw and 
 the weak AI are more then made up for with its graphics, beautifully designed levels, its unmatched 
 often times intense battles. However, a disappointing missed opportunity in the multiplayer keeps 
 it from achieving a replayability that would have sent this game into the stratisphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankJaeger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2004 7:54 am PT
Review:  As the sequel to the best thing to come out of Quake II's engine, Half-Life 2 had a tall order 
 to fit it's horse's mouth in... or some other trite metaphorical proverb. In any case, despite being 
 over a year late, HL2 is definately at the top of the heap right now.
  
  The gameplay is spot on. The "Route Kanal" and "Water Hazard" really give you a sense of pursuit. 
 The whole world seems out to get you, and it really is a rush. The rest is a mirror of the first 
 Half-Life, with a climax that leaves you wondering just how things got this far from the train.
 
  
  There really isn't much to say about the graphics that hasn't been said. They give a level of immersion 
 that ousts Metroid Prime from its atmospheric throne. 
  
  Sounds are excellent. They complement the graphics to complete the immersion. Ambience really goes 
 a long way. The NPC speech is still upstanding. Gordon Freeman gets "Master Chief Syndrome" from 
 all of his comrades from speech like "Wow! Freeman is here! We could turn the tide" and "Don't 
 worry! Just follow Freeman!" and whatnot. 
  
  For the price there isn't actually too much game, but the mods and expansions that will surely 
 follow save the value from being lower.
  
  All in all, this is a great game. It's a little on the easy side for those of us that grew up playing 
 Contra and Castlevania, but not mind numbingly easy. It really is an experience that any self respecting 
 gamer should partake in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maedakentaro
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 21, 2004 7:48 am PT
Review:  Incredible. Simply incredible. I know a lot of people have complaints about the rather open-ended 
 storyline, but wasn't that the same in the original Half-Life? It's just that HL1 raised our expectation 
 so much. Without that, this is the best game I've ever played. Everything's much better compared 
 to even the best shooters of these couple of years. The Graphics are far better than Far Cry, and 
 at times it can really surpass Doom3. Besides, HL2 lets you play in a variety of locations, compared 
 to the dark and narrow corridors of the Mars Base in Doom3. Also, look at the vehicles. Obviously, 
 the airbike is an equivalent to the snow scooter in NOLF2, and the cart is much like the one in 
 Far Cry. They are both extremely easy to maneuver, letting you speed on and shoot the combines 
 and antlions at will. And I don't think anyone has pointed this out, but HL2 has an element of 
 Freedom Fighters too. Whereas I had to control every single squad member in Freedom Fighters even 
 though I was always assigning the same order (attack and regroup) to everyone, HL2 lets you do 
 it by only one order. This simplicity has in fact enabled HL2 to top Freedom Fighters in its gameplay, 
 even though it was Freedom Fighters that was designed for team combat. Overall, I think this game 
 has raised the bar so much that developers will have a hard time for the next few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bodycount611
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2004 5:26 am PT
Review:  HL2 is what its predecessor was known for. Being the king of its genre and leaving the competition 
 in the dust. HL2 may not be what its prequel is, but it is excellent by all means. 6 years of hype, 
 all led to this and i myself am not dissapointed. This is a must own for any PC gamer, and it easily 
 outclassess any other PC game this year. Doom 3 and far cry were great games, but they are not 
 on the same level of excellence of HL2. 
  
  The gameplay is the standard formula for an FPS ( if ain't broke, don't fix it) but half-life2 also 
 has some of the best graphics in a game to date, and a great atmosphere. The voice acting is good, 
 there is a decent story and epic music. The game should take you around 15-20 hours, which is good 
 for a FPS.
  
  The physics engine is where HL2 really shines. Never has a game done anything like this brfore. 
 Half-Life 2 has the best, most realistic Physics ever. The addition of a new weapon, the gravity 
 gun, just further showcases the awesome, state-of-the-art physics. You can also interact with your 
 environment, which is pulled off extremely well.
  
  The king of the FPS has returned. Everyone should rush out and play this game right now. With the 
 addition of Valve throwing in Counter-Strike: Source for free (a superb game aswell) this is a definite 
 must-have. it comes down to this: half life 2 is unrivaled in its genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MakinBacon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2004 5:07 am PT
Review:  Reviewers System
  ----------------------------
  Pentium 4 3.0 GHZ 800 MHZ FBS
  1 GB PC3200 (2x 512 MB) RAM
  128 MB ATI X800 SE (PCI-EXPRESS) 16X
  
  
  
  Half-Life 2, 
 6 years in the making. Half-Life was released in 1998 for PC from an unkown company known as Valve. 
 Valve released what would later be known as perhaps the greatest FPS and PC game ever made winning 
 more than 50 GOTY (game of the year) awards from various publications. Half-Life threw you into 
 the role of the silent protagonist Gordon Freeman a theoretical physisist graduate from MIT. On 
 a Normal day to work an expermient goes horribly wrong. an alien race manages to get through to 
 earth through the gateway created by the resonance cascade . At the end of Half-Life gordon kills 
 the leader (or so we think) of the Xen aliens. and is confronted by the mysterious "G-Man" and 
 offers gordon a job , or his life. Half-Life 2 picks up as if you chose the job from the G-Man. 
 "Wake up and Smell the Ashes" he says to you as you appear on a train headed into City 17, a Human 
 city supressed by a force known as The Combine a superior army that keeps the humans in line. After 
 the 7 Hour War Dr. Wallce Breen surrenendered to the Combine and they made him Administrator of 
 the City. Dr. Breen was Admin for Black Mesa. You start off in a train station and then you are 
 thrown into a mess of a revolution.... time to pick up the crowbar again. Spanning 12 Chapters Half-Life 
 2 is a thrill ride from start to finish.
  
  Gameplay- 10
  
  The Physics for this game are the best of any game ever created. the game itself obeys the laws 
 of physics. If you shoot the water with a gun, the water will splash you can pick up boxes and 
 stack them and climb them ,but if you hit them to hard. they'll tip and fall. if you run into a 
 shelf it'll fall over. shoot glass it'll crack and shatter in that place. The Source Physics make 
 the game totally diffrent from another shooter. it adds a more tactical feel to the game. The weapons 
 are balanced just right execept for the SMG (Sub-Machine Gun) which is slightly innacurate. the 
 physics for this game alone deserve a 10
  
  Graphics- 10
  The graphics for this game are on par if not better than Doom 3's graphics. the graphics are probably 
 some of the most realistic graphics ever produced by a computer. when people talk to you , you 
 acually feel as if they are talking to you because their face looks so realistic. everything is 
 detailed in the right way for the settings. the Light is balanced just right sometimes it may be 
 a little dark, but the flashlight makes up for it.
  
  Sound - 10
  the music for the game fits all settings just right. at the end when your heading into your last 
 fight the music plays it seems to fit just right like you going to unleash some hellish judgement 
 on someone. The music in Ravenholm fits the setting it has an erie. the guns all sound amazing, 
 my only beef is that the pistol sounds a little underpowered for some reason. that is my only problem 
 with the sound but the rest of it. makes up for it 
  
  Value - 9 
  While the single player of Half-LIfe 2 is top notch the multiplayer falls slightly short. While 
 counter-strike: source is still amazing it still only is a port of an older mod. im sure many players 
 would rather of seen a new multiplayer mode using the physics. the value would be much lower but 
 knowing the mod community we will see various mods very soon for Half-Life 2 just as we did for 
 Half-Life. The lack of a major new multiplayer mode doesnt hurt Half-Life 2 but it would of been 
 very nice to see maybe a Team Fortress 2?
  
  
  Half-Life 2 supasses Half-Life in almost every way imaginable. if you like first person shooters 
 or even a mind bending story. Half-Life 2 is for you. while it may lack a major multiplayer compnant 
 it makes up for it in its amazing singleplayer. The ending of the game will have you wanting Half-Life 
 3 here sooner . Half-Life 2 is not only the best looking video game in history graphically but 
 it maybe the best PC Game/ First Person Shooter ever created by man
  
  Pros
  -------------------------------------------------------------
  - Amazing Physics
  - Captivating 
 Storyline
  - Non-Repeating gameplay
  - Graphics and sound are top notch
  
  Cons
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  - Lack of Major Multiplayer 
 Componant
  - Load Time are a bit long at times
  - Vehicle portions a little long at times but still fun
  - Cliffhanger ending :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehTerlo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 4:02 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2. When us gamers heard about this coming out on September 30, 2003. We were all very 
 excited. Valve showed us several demos and videos and screenshots of this sequel to a very revolutionary 
 game they're making. Several gamers were amazed. Now, most people thought that this game would 
 be a video card suck up, much like the Doom 3 engine. It most certainly is not. I've played this 
 on several different style machines, including computers with a 6800GT, 9600SE, 9600XT, 9600, and 
 X800 Pro video cards. The 9600SE/XT/Plain run the game fine without any AA/AF highest settings 
 on 1024/768 resolution. Now, lets get to the core of the game. The game starts out wonderfully, 
 all quiet and peaceful. Before you know it, you're having fun picking up cans and throwing them 
 at combine troopers, just to see their reaction. Face it folks, the physics in this game are ahead 
 of it's time. WIth your crowbar, you can hit a box, and it'll open the way it would. You can throw 
 a Barrel in the air, shoot at it in the air, and it will go higher. The water effects, textures, 
 are all simply polished brilliantly. The gameplay is the standard FPS gameplay, if it aint broke, 
 don't mess with it. The level design in this game is wonderful. The Physics weren't just put their 
 for hype, or to be a gimmick, but physics actually play a huge role in this game. You need to do 
 several things with them. You may need to raise water in a pipe place, or better yet, shoot at 
 a bunch of gasoline barrels and make a whole bridge fall. Now, in all honesty, no game is perfect. 
 This game has it's problems too, Choppy Sound even on the best of sound cards. The other thing 
 about the Single Player experience, is, once it's beaten, there is replaying until the next expansion 
 or what not. However, it's a great storyline, pretty long if you're playing on the medium or hard 
 difficulty settings. With the initial package, comes the modification to the Source engine Counter 
 Strike: Source, which is a very addicting, very popular, very competitive first person shooter 
 that involves Counter Terrorists Versus Terrorists. There is a lot of strategy in this game. Shotguns 
 serve their purpose, Sniper rifles serve their purpose, Machine Guns serve their purpose, even 
 pistols are serving their purpose. In the Half Life 2 part of the package, there is gravity gun 
 you will get through out the game, they can pick up literally ANYTHING. Tear anything out of the 
 wall! Send a grenade back at the enemy that he threw! Vehicles are also a new addition to the game, 
 which is gonna be big for modifications to the game. Vehicles with guns, Vehicles can run over 
 people. The AI in this game is phenomenal. The Combine Enemies are actually using real tactics 
 an actual gamer would use. I stayed up until midnight on monday, November 15th for this. And just 
 that moment of seeing "validating half life 2 files" Made me tingle. I played for quite a bit, 
 and i didn't want to lose any of the greatness of the game. It was everything and more i had expected 
 to be. If you are a fan of first person shooters, or any action kind of game, this game is definitely 
 right for you. I don't see any reason why you shouldn't go pick up this game NOW. 
  
  Here's the final say:
  Gameplay - 10 : It's the normal, traditional, FPS way of play, with the 
 wheel part of the mouse switching guns, and left button triggering, right button changing what 
 your gun does, nothing new, but if it aint broke, don't fix it. 
  
  Graphics - 10 : The only game that comes close to the effects and textures this game comes close 
 to is Doom 3, but that's a hardware hog, and Half Life 2 isn't even close to being a hardware hog. 
 
  
  Sound - 9 : Sometimes choppy at time, but when it changes all of the sudden when you're just walking 
 around, it can mean a lot.
  
  Value - 9 : Two great games, with a lot of repay value for ya. If you get the Silver, Gold, or 
 Collectors edition packages, you're looking at a for sure 10 in value. Plus a ton of games, including 
 the Half Life: Source and Day of Defeat: Source games for valve's new source engine. 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10 : I had the most fun with this game then any other i've had. It's not often 
 you get a gaming experience like this, and it should be cherished for a long time. 
  
  Final Score: 9.8 
  HEAVILY recommended to anyone. 
  
  -Terlo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rybo619
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2004 3:25 am PT
Review:  All I can say is, wow. It has been a long and bumpy road, but its finally here. There was a hella 
 lot of hype for Half-Life 2, and although most of the time I was expecting it to live up to the 
 hype, there were sometimes I was thinking, 'No way they can pull this off.' But I'm here to tell 
 you, they did it. 
  
  From the moment the game begins with your 'awakening' by the G-Man, you can tell you're in for 
 an epic game. The first thing you'll notice is the amazing graphics, and the way the G-Man's lips 
 move almost perfectly to the words being spoken. The graphics are like this throughout most the 
 game, only being held back in some of the large outdoor areas. But, even then, it won't bother 
 you too much, with the constant action.
  Graphics: 10
  
  The gameplay is fun as ever, and there are no control problems whatsoever. The controls are nice 
 and tight, as they should be. After the beginning chapter, where you can get used to the gameplay, 
 the action is almost constant, with small loading times in between, which can sometimes get a bit 
 annoying. All in all, this is some of the best gameplay I have ever seen in a game. 
  
  Physics. In most games, physics don't play much of a role in the gameplay. Well, Half-life 2 isn't 
 most games. Almost any object can be picked up and thrown in this game. They can be used as projectiles, 
 or even as shields. Physics also play part in a few of the puzzles found throughout the game. Physics 
 are ESPECIALLY fun after you obtain your gravity gun, with which you can pick up larger, heavier 
 objects and use them as your 'ammo'. Half-Life 2 uses full advantage of physics in the game. These 
 are what makes this game revolutionary.
  Gameplay: 10
  
  The music may not be everyone's favorite, but I sure like it. Its kind of a techno-ish music mix. 
 Now, I know techno doesn't sound like the greatest choice of game music, but it is definitely in-place 
 here in Half-Life 2. When the action picks up and the music starts up, it gets the adrenaline pumping. 
 It seems to fit in with the environments and ongoings of the game. Oh, and the voice acting. Best 
 I've ever heard in a game. The npc's (non-player characters) express feelings very well. Its not 
 some cheap voice-overs like in some games. Its AAA quality here. The voice acting, the amazing 
 character models... I know it may seem a bit strange, but this is the first time I have actually 
 felt... attached to the characters in a game. Its like a movie.
  Sound: 10
  
  As for value, this game, packaged with Counter-Strike: Source cannot be beat. It is worth every 
 penny. So, with that said,
  Value: 10.
  
  Now all in all, although there may be tiny little things that may be a bit annoying in the game, 
 the rest of it DEFINITELY makes up for it. There is 1 word for games like this (and games like 
 this are VERY rare) : Revolutionary. Half-Life 2 is definitely a must-own for any PC gamer.
  Final score: 10 (perfect) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denisefr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2004 2:08 am PT
Review:  Its not perfect - but its damn close. As has been expressed in nearly every review I've read for 
 HL2 the early levels are a bit slow and repetitive, the AI for allies is suspect and the ending 
 is a cliff hanger.
  
  Well, so what!?
  
  Taken as a whole its the best FPS I've played this year - if not ever.
  
  The early levels 
 might be annoying but they're still better than some I've seen in other games (which I won't mention 
 for fear of flames) . Every second you spend in this amazing world just blows your mind - I still 
 can't believe how big a jump we've taken since HL1. Your squad members get under your feet a bit 
 and that fixed stare is just creepy but they come in useful if only as Combine fodder.
  
  I won't spoil the suprise for those of you still to finish - but let me say this - the ending might 
 be a cliff hanger but it raised a bit of a chuckle from me - of puzlement or disbelief I'm still 
 not sure which. My brain is madly buzzing trying to work out where Valve might take HL3 (please 
 let there be a HL3) - the questions are endless and the so are the possibilities.
  
  Thank you Valve you've given me a gaming experience that will be hard, if not impossible, to better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silv3rSt0rm82
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2004 11:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I just don't get it how could gamespot quote HL2 lower than HL1...
  
  I mean honestly, in the FPS domain, HL2 brings a whole lot more in innovation than HL1 did.
  
 The engine of HL2 is sooooo amazing.
  Graphics, sounds, action, intrigue... etc.
  I guess that HL2 is getting underrated because of all the leaks it had (betas) and all these talkabouts, 
 delayed many times and all.
  
  Anyway, HL1 didn't got me hooked back then because of its sick, narrow ambiance of corridors, lab 
 rooms and all. This time you're pretty much outside, in wider areas.
  To me this is much more appealing from the very begginning!
  You can hide, snipe, a bit more 
 strategy is involved here.
  
  The engine and the graphics are just UNBELIEVABLE!!!
  You gotta play it on a high end PC to enjoy it!
  But it still isn't too picky... should run quite 
 smoothly on a 2ghz + pc with a decent video card.
  I equipped myself about a month ago or so to be able to enjoy all the amazing titles comin' out 
 and gotta say I'm glad I did, now I take advantage of every single buck I spent!
  
  I decided to pick the collectors edition of HL2 2 days ago and it has an amazing value!
  You 
 get the game (of course) , you get a HL1 Source remake (nicer graphics) , Counter-Strike Source (Which 
 got me back into CS... hehe) , a hint guide with some arts of the monsters and all, an exclusive 
 HL2 tshirt and it is on a single DVD, so no swapping at all.
  
  I had a wonderful surprise playing Farcry a couple of months ago, looooooved it and tought that 
 nothing would come even close to it in matter of gameplay. I played Doom3 and it was a letdown 
 to me... all about the ambiance, a pretty incomplete and hollow game it was.
  Now I bought HL2 without even thinking twice about it! (Thinking I couldn't be wrong about it...*But 
 still it was 99$ CA for the collectors ED... could've been screwed real bad!*)
  There's something that I can't explain that made me buy this game instantly... I must have this 
 kind of a sixth sense.
  I did so with Disgaea on the PS2 and on many other titles and was never deceived.
  This game 
 is definitely a sure buy. I may be only at like...10% through it yet and must say that even if 
 it would end soon, I would have had a whole lot of action for my money!
  (Not that I want it to end soon... actually when I get in a good FPS I always hope it'll never end... 
 *Medal of Honor, Farcry, etc...*)
  
  So let's hope that HL2 will keep me thrilled for let's say 20hours to come and I'll be amazed even 
 more! *I always take my time browsing in great games so it lasts even longer (Let's just hope that 
 the ending is better than farcry...)
  
  Get this title it's a PERFECT FPS (If you got the hardware recommandation to run it smoothly it 
 is)
  
  Final words, I guess Half Life 2 will be screwed and won't get all the Game of the year titles 
 it deserves cause it got out too late of this year (Half life 1 got about 50 awards!!!) . It won't 
 be getting all the credits since it won't be everyone who'll have to chance to play it to really 
 vote for it... Only time will decide but my vote is definitely on its side! 2 Thumbs up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2004 10:13 pm PT
Review:  OK I finished this game yesterday, a total of about 21 hours to beat. This game is excellent, little 
 flaws keep it from being the perfect action game. From the graphics to the gameplay to facial animations, 
 this game excells in everything.
  
  OK if you haven't played the original Half-Life (you should) , then you have nothing to worry about, 
 because this game has little to do with it's predecessor, except a few mentions of "Black Mesa" 
 (which was where Half-Life took place) . You're Gordon Freeman, a nerd to badass who ends up in 
 this 1984-esque city name "City 17". It is heavily guarded by soldiers and there's an old man (Dr. 
 Breen) who seems to be talking to the public in screens placed throughout the city. So you and 
 your fellow rebellious ones want to take down the system, and free everyone from this horrible 
 city. There are plot twists and surprises throughout the game, and not ONE cutscene, it's all in-game.
 
  
  Gameplay 10 (11 if I could) - Oh my goodness, this is where the game shines like gold. If you didn't 
 already know, you can pick objects with your hands, and you have to solve many quite challenging 
 puzzles with physics and objects. There is also a gravity gun, one that can either push objects, 
 or pull and release them. There's a big arsenal of very interesting weapons, which has some of 
 my favorite weapons ever in a game. The environments are amazing, and everything has the ability 
 to be moved or blown up, which is actually important sometimes. There are no cut scenes (Half-Life 
 originated this formula) , it's all in-game and interactive, making it seem like you're really there. 
 You never see yourself, no reflections or even hands on your steering wheel for your buggy! The 
 game has a good mix of action, vehicles, dialogue, and puzzles. I couldn't have wished for better 
 gameplay.
  
  Graphics - OK everyone knows this has amazing graphics. The DirectX 9 effects are used well, and 
 run pretty well on most systems. The water is unmatched, not even Far Cry's meets it. Better than 
 Far Cry's graphics, or maybe even Doom 3's.
  
  Sound 10 - The music is amazing, and they always play the right type of song at the right time. 
 The dialogue and voice is unmatched, like Father Gregori and the G-Man! The gun sounds are very 
 realistic too.
  
  Value 10 - Yep, maybe you don't like Counter-Strike or Day of Defeat, but there will be soooo many 
 mods out in the near future. There are lists of mods in development for this game, and Counter-Strike 
 is awesome! If you don't like fan-made games, there will be Team Fortress 2 this winter, which 
 is sweet. This game and/or games will last you a while.
  
  Tilt 9 - Well, didn't expect that one huh? The only reason I took off a point was because I wanted 
 to prevent this game from getting a ten (since no game is prefect) , and also the story leaves you 
 with more questions than answers. However, despite the huge cliffhanger or this story, it still 
 leaves me interested, so that I'll easily pick Half-Life 3, to see what unfolds.
  
  Pros - Pretty much everything, graphics, gameplay, physics, puzzles, MODs, Counter-Strike, Voice 
 Acting, music, sounds/soundscapes, facial animations, dialogue sequences, enemies, weapons, environments, 
 easy map-making tool, and story twists.
  
  Cons - Big cliffhanger that will leave you with more questions than answers. Vehicle driving can 
 be clunky at times. Allies kinda get in your way in halls, but move out of the way usually.
  
  OK so there's no real reason for you not to buy this game. If you have an outdated computer, 
 this is the game to upgrade for. Forget Doom 3, Far Cry, Painkiller, or any other shooter to date. 
 Half-Life 2 tops them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2004 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, probably one of the most hyped, most talked about and most uncanny stories for its 
 delay of all time. I had read the entire Half-Life 2 article GameSpot recently posted and just 
 have to shake my head in amazement this game ever saw the light of day. The back story to this 
 game, reading all the posts made by frustrated computer geeks and the whole code theft fiasco 
 was about as entertaining as this game is.
  
  With that said, I found this game, to be an amazing achievement. You can tell that everything about 
 this game was handled with care. Even though a lot of gamers found it too be too short of a ride, 
 while I somewhat agree, the ride was such a rush!
  
  Oh I wasnt in store for what this game had to offer. Nu-uh, no way! I never played the original 
 Half-Life, so I didnt know anything about the back story or the characters. I was surprised how 
 well the developers made it for people who dont know anything about Half-Life lore to get into 
 the games story without much confusion. Actually, I prefer not having known anything as it enhanced 
 the aura of mystery that this game furnished.
  
  The game play itself was rather amazing. The AI- was quite impressive. Im so used to enemy AI 
 not really doing much, but here, they reacted in such a believable manner. I loved the puzzle element 
 that was implemented through out the game. They were very unique and sometimes challenging. I had 
 a lot of fun playing Half-life 2, it wasnt all flashy graphics and sound like DOOM 3. 
  
  Speaking of Graphics and sound, they are phenomenal! Im just so utterly impressed. Those boys 
 over at Valve have out done themselves. Theyve raised the bar on what a game should be. I got 
 so immersed in this game, you really get a sense of being there. The music was really cool too. 
 I love how when the action heats up the techno style beat starts to play, elevating the pace, making 
 your heart beat even faster.
  
  Though it may not deserve all the hype and recognition it has received, Half-Life 2 has shown to 
 me and the world that its not lacking when it comes to pure gaming bliss. We need more games like 
 this. In the future, I hope other game developers play this game and strive for something either 
 as equally fulfilling, or take it to the next level. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrackZero3369
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2004 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Ever since first playing Trespasser, I've been enthralled with seeing great physics in my games. 
 It adds that element of realism that I often find missing. On this, Half-Life 2 delivers hands-down. 
 
  
  What I didn't know I was missing however, was an emotional attachment to the characters. This game 
 delivers that as well. You need to understand, that there are so many "little things" in Half-life 
 2 which make it game-of-the-year material. It's one thing to have an excellent script and voice 
 actors, it's quite another to witness the look of fear in a computer-controlled characters eyes. 
 On a subconcious level we pick that up and it makes it feel more like an experience than merely 
 a computer game.
  
  Half-life 2 really has it all:
  
  - story
  - characters
  - incredible graphics
  - realistic physics engine, the likes of which we've never seen before
 
  - excellent sound effects
  - outstanding music soundtrack that comes in at the right moments
  - multiple paths to solve 
 encounters, often puzzle/thinking based
  - a little bit of humor thown in
  
  Just as powerful an experience as the original Half-life was, if not even better (no Xen jumping 
 puzzles, thank god) .
  
  The only reason I can't give the gameplay a 10/10 is due to some problem with the difficulty level 
 being too easy (it feels one level below, easy- very easy, normal- easy, hard- normal) , as well 
 as a few minor (and I mean minor) design instances I would have tweaked differently.
  
  On top of all this, you have the mutliplayer aspect of Counterstrike to consider as well. As fun 
 an experience as Unreal 2K4 for online combat and a must-try for anyone who considers themselves 
 a real gamer.
  
  Make no mistake however, this is game of the year in my opinion. Halo 2 comes a close second, but 
 this is the one to pick if you only have one choice.
  
  
  NOTE: I'm not going to touch "steam" in my review with a 20 foot pole. Steam is not part of the 
 game and in my opinion would be the same as me complaining if I had problems with my xbox drive 
 reading my Halo 2 disc *cough*. It's part of the medium, not the message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UtahMtnBiker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2004 7:14 pm PT
Review:  HL2 is incredible! By far better then Halo2. I haven't even looked at my Xbox since picking up 
 HL2. All in All an incredible game. My only problem with the game, has nothing to do with the game 
 itself but the installation process. 
  
  It's good to be back with Freeman and crew!
  
  The only drawback is the installation. Maybe I hit the STEAM server at a bad time, but it seemed 
 to take forever! This is a real pain in the butt way to have to register a game. I hope Valve learns 
 from this, and doesn't subject us to this with every game they come out with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2004 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Just finished this game, not too long, not too short. I kept the same score... nothing has changed 
 my mind, I like this game alot, I don't like the annoying loads all through out the game though: 
 it's like halflife all over again. The "studder" issue was a minor issue, happened here and there, 
 did not stop me or interfere with progress. I didn't care for the detection with ladders and debris 
 on the ground; also doorways. Sometimes the graphics were amazing, an other times, 1998 like." 
 I run the game at max settings."
  If it weren't for steam, sound bugs, and most of all, the annoying loads that took anywhere from 
 11 seconds to 45+ seconds to take me constantly out of the game: at times they happen during great 
 action sequencing, taking away the thrill... leaving me thinking about FARCRY.
  This game isn't a far-cry from FARCRY, but I still have to give far-cry it's propz. For someone 
 who prefers the Sci-Fi theme too, it shows you what I think of FAR-CRY.
  I think Halflife2 was near perfection.... but with the handicaps it  
 I could not see it for what it wasn't. A great game indeed.... but not solid.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2004 3:28 pm PT
Review:  By far, this is the best fps i have ever played. Half-life was amazing when it came out six years 
 ago. But who would of ever thought the sequal could be just as good. i did. And it sure as hell is.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in halflife 2 is simply amazing. One big reason is because of the physics 
 engine which makes the game so much fun. Being able to pick up object and use them as weapons, use 
 objects to block doorways and the GRAVITYGUN kicks ass. The AI in the game is good ,not as good 
 as farcry, but its better then most games. The levels are designed to perfection, using the amazing 
 source engine .
  
  Graphics: The source engine is the best graphic engine to date. HL2 is a better looking game the 
 doom3 by alot. Doom just focused on dark areas and shadowing. The particle effects and lighting in 
 hl2 will make u play this game hours upon hours.
  
  Sound: All i got to say is that the sound in hl2 is the best in any game to date.
  
  Gooooooooo 
 by this game. Its the best fps ever. If u want to experience this game at full potential u should 
 have a top of the line system. I got a 3.4ghz , 2gb ram, ati x800 and the game runs at perfection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owenneil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2004 8:57 am PT
Review:  i waited for my copy to come reading horror storys of CTD's and it just not loading to so much 
 more yet also hearing of how great it is and working fine for some. nobody taking the blame that 
 maybe just maybe it was on there end and most likey is. so i was nerves my copy comes i install 
 less then 30 mins to get it ready via steam (56k) i was in and playing everything maxed out and 
 running super smooth with no lag i was in heaven! im loving it, hands down better the the first. 
 saying its not inovated over the first is a joke. the engine hands down make it more inovated. 
 instead of lame jumping puzzels like HL1 we get some very cool and well placed physhic ones that 
 are fun to do and solve. i for one am not let down at all. i went into it for a fun time and i 
 got even more then i bargained for.
  now with my pet peeves now this didnt hurt my fun but still was not loving it. loads HL1 had mini 
 loads and normal did it fast like time to take a sip of soda and back in. there back some are super 
 fast which is good other seem to drag i havnet had any over a 1 min but still people on slower 
 rigs might get hurt by this. respawns some placed dont have them others do and im not a fan of 
 it cuz its normaly after a hard battle im almost dead and trying to figure out where to go next 
 and how to do so whne more people run in and i am sure its a respawn and not a planed event. not 
 a big problem but has screwed me over acouple of times wile fooling around with a puzzle thing, 
 also even a plan retail version id more then 49.99 like most games, not a bad thing just kinda 
 diffrent when it doesnt even come with a manual or cd cases seemed kinda bare bone for the extra 
 couple of bucks over 50 bucks. all and all i highly recamend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2004 6:40 am PT
Review:  The long wait is over and the game looks and plays great! The graphics are among the best Ive 
 even seen in a PC game, and every bit as good as Far Cry without the choppy game play. Gordon Freeman, 
 is back, and again running for his life, better get use to it, cause you will be doing a lot of 
 running and shooting in this one.
  Like I said before, the graphics are some of the best ever, but does take a lot of system to run 
 it smoothly, but last then Far Cry and far last then the new Medal of Honor game. The sound in 
 the game is also some of the best, maybe not as good as some of the World War II games, like Call 
 of Duty, but the sounds are some of the best, taking advantage of 5.1 surround sound. 
  Game play is also some of the best, with 3 levels so that anyone of any age can get into the game 
 quickly. The one thing this game really misses is a paper manual. Valve has decided to completely 
 bypass the paper manual and just use the one of the CD. It works but for a game that cost $55, 
 you would think that would deserve one. 
  The one thing I really hated is the online Steaming account you have to setup to play the game. 
 It took a really long time to setup and its really dumb, what if your computer doesnt have access 
 to the internet? One other thing, why did Valve decided to put this game on 5 CDs, have they not 
 heard of DVDs?
  This maybe one of the best shooters ever, this game is really that good! I think it maybe one patch 
 away from the best shooter ever!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2004 6:17 am PT
Review:  In the interest of full disclosure I have to point out that Half-Life (1) is my favorite game of 
 all time, I really love it and have beat it more than 5 times and have played several mods till 
 my eyes were bloodshot. So after many long years I bought my copy of HL2 a month ago on steam and 
 was ready for it to come out then. I didn't know how ready I was until this week when it proved 
 to be one of the best games this year -- this one delievers on every level from story, to the technical, 
 the artistic, and most importantly the fun.
  
  The Game starts off slowly like the original, albeit not so quiet as the trainride to Black Mesa 
 you begin as Gordon Freeman being deposited into City 17 and the first thing you'll notice once 
 you're there is that the city looks amazing. We could have a productive argument over weather Farcy 
 or Doom 3 looks better or HL2 but suffice it to say that this is one of the best looking games 
 on the market and it has a very unique look all its own. It does a great job of showing off a variety 
 of somewhat realistic environments with sci-Fi elements. Another graphical note of amazingness 
 is how the faces animate. They look really impressive to look at the faces of your enemies and 
 conspirators and see things fear in their faces. The technology in this game is clearly capapble 
 of rendering some really impressive scenary as it does throughout the entire game. Artistically 
 it just looks really really good to, it uses a wide variety of colors from the pallette to help 
 to paint a world in which dis-belief is really suspended. Also it just runs smooth as heck, my 
 system is near the middle of the pack at best and it ran the game from end to end at 1024x 768 
 without so much as a hitch, well smoother than other games with similarily beautiful graphics on 
 the same settings. So I'd imagine that even down near the requirements you could squeeze out enough 
 frames to play all the way through.
  
  The Ambient sound does a great job of setting the mood of where you are. Creepy areas have creepy 
 ambient sounds, industrial areas sound that way. Best of all war really sounds like war with all 
 kinds of yelling and shouting going on over the gunfire. IT also has a somewhat forgettable soundtrack 
 that while you won't be humming it or anyting it boosts your energy level when a battle is about 
 to begin etc. The real highlight of the soundtrack are the voice-overs and the gunfire sounds. 
 The voice overs in the game are far better than the few canned sounds that were in HL six years 
 ago, they're also just about as good as any FPS game on the market. The characters and the throw 
 away extras all sound very good and has a few B-Celebrties on the cast such as Lou Gosset Junior. 
 The Gunfire is perfectly deep and very full. I had more than a few complaints from my roomates 
 about the bass on these guns bugging them one floor down but they really sound terrifffic. A couple 
 other little touch sound effects are really impressive. For instance explosions nearby deafen you -- this 
 is a nice little touch and when you kill a enemy soldier you hear a faint flatline tone to know 
 that he's dead. These little touches are really quite nice additions to the sound effects. 
  
  The Gameplay in this game is really the star of the show and it's as good as it gets. A few 
 of the early puzzles led to a small amount of tedium, but at times this was just due to my idiocy 
 in not seeing a switch or noting something that should have jumped out at me. I mention the puzzles 
 first because their are quite a great many puzzles in this game for a first person shooter, and 
 they actually provided a great breakup in the read-and-react action. And what they did to make 
 the puzzles really cool and somewhat different is that they implemented physics in a real way that 
 actually impacts the gameplay. Early on you'll get a weapon called the Gravity gun that lets you 
 manipulate most objects in the world which allows you to solve all kinds of problems all kinds 
 of different ways actually. I've talked to a few people about how they solved certain puzzles and 
 they're not all the same exactly -- usually similar as this isn't a world of total freedom you've 
 got to respond within the context of the games intent but it gives you a degree of freedom
  
  Then their is the other main aspect of the game which is the games combat which is amazingly 
 done. For one the physics really improve the combat, sometimes you'll be using the grav gun to 
 throw anything you can pick up at the enemy as a weapon, barrels explosive and otherwise are quite 
 useful. You fight plenty of aliens and humanoid soldiers known as the "combine" all the time along 
 with their vehicles and drones etc. You also get behind the wheel of two vehicles an airboat and 
 a buggy, both packing some nice armarments. New weapons include bugabait which allows you to summon 
 allied aliens callled ant-lions who are on your side. Additionally the use of all the weapons in 
 the game is quite often as they all have their purpose and none of them are overpowered. Ammo for 
 the better weapons is rare but you're never outgunned between your SMG, Shotgun, MG, and a sniping 
 crossbow. New enemies include Striders 3 legged skyscraper aliens with missles and machine guns 
 mounted underneath them. The most important thing about the combat and indeed the whole game is 
 that it's just a lot more fun than most other first person shooters in the single playe mode. 
 
  
  The games story could have been fleshed out better but to complain about that is a bit sour grapes 
 as at no point did I find it lacking while i was actully playing the game. In fact it's one of 
 the best stories in a First person shooter but it does have an ending that once again leaves you 
 with more questions than answers in a a way. It's really somewhat satisfying and the characters 
 are all very interesting. Doctor's Kleiner and Vance from the original game return along with a 
 much more individualized barney. These guys now aren't templates rather they're very much personal 
 characters with their own little traits. Introduced include your former Administrator at Black-Mesa 
 whom is in charge of the city, and my two favorites Alyx Vance and Doctor Mossman the daughter 
 of and colleague of Doctor Eli vance respectively. Also the former "slave" enemies from the first 
 game come back as Vortigons who aid you a few times along the way with new equipment. Their are 
 a couple of really intriguing plot twists along the way and I certainly don't want to spoil any 
 of them. Again you're never taken out of first persn and Godon doesn't have any lines but this 
 is a wash as it does increase immersion at a minor expense to story telling. It'd have been preferible 
 perhaps for Gordon not to have a name but it's too late for that now
  
  But wait you get More the game comes with some pretty nice multiplayer in CS: S and a secret unlockable 
 deathmatch. It would have been nice i suppose to have seen the game come with a really great multiplayer 
 mode that we've never played and i'm somewhat dissapointed TFC wasn't ported but I can understand 
 that as they're giving us something surprisingly good. I thought i'd be bored of CS by now but 
 get a few friends together and get on a server and it's still a lot of fun to play even if you 
 don't have the ninja skills to keep up with the other CS players. The community seemed a lot less 
 juvenille than the original HL community did -- this probably will change as HL2 dissemintates to 
 a wider audience but by that time i'm sure some mods will have been made exclusively for it. The 
 Levels are remakes of the best from CS and they're still really good and it's still that nice mix 
 of Arcade and tactical sim and it just works very well and can be quite addictave with the famous 
 last words of "one more round". 
  
  One thing i want to take time to praise and i'd give this game an 11 for tilt because of how much 
 i liked this. I bought the game over steam and it was a perfect installation, I preloaded it, bought 
 it, it authenticated without an iota of a problem. I hope other publishers and developers are taking 
 witness to how conveniant this was for the consumer and can see that their is a market here
  
  Normally this would be the part of a review where i complain about stuff but I really don't 
 have anything to complain about. So i'll close by saying that Half-Life 2 while perhaps not as 
 revolutionary as the first game is without any flaws worth noting. If you like action games and 
 have even a decent PC you have no bussiness not having Half-Life 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoda0623
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2004 6:04 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game a few hours ago, and the more I think about it, the more I realize how 
 much I enjoyed it. The gameplay is very similar to the original, but with a few added tweaks, mainly 
 Gordon's ability to lead a team of up to 4 comrades. You can either have the group follow (when 
 doing this they will attack usually only when you begin to be fired upon) or to send them to a 
 specific point to take out enemies, which I never had to do, unless it was to get them out of my 
 way in narrow hallways when they were keeping me from getting through, and become quite frustrating. 
 The game gives you a great set of weapons, all with very good sound effects, and for the most part 
 all of the ones that were in the original game. The environments in the game are also very well 
 designed and never feel repetitive. The game also has some fairly interesting puzzles that feel 
 rewarding and have a "realistic" feel to them. A new edition to the game are a few driving sequences 
 that get pretty intense and are some of the more memorable spots in the game. Another aspect that 
 will stand out to anyone is the incredible physics engine, which made me spend chunks of time throwing 
 objects down stairs and beating cardboard boxes with the crowbar to watch how they reacted. The 
 engine also brings in more realism into the game when an enemy is shot while on the top of a building 
 and rolls down the room flopping around like a real body. The graphics don't really need any comment, 
 but I will say what pretty much everyone says, that they are amazing. Even with a Ti4600 128mb 
 card, the graphics were great all the way through. After playing through Doom 3, I wasn't sure 
 whether Half-Life 2 would stand out to me much, but it did, although less than it would have if 
 I had never played through Doom 3. The sound is another great aspect of the game. As I said before, 
 the weapon sounds are done very well, as do all of the explosions. The soundtrack is also solid 
 as before. The voice-acting is done very well, although it isn't on par with Metal Gear Solid, 
 but is still convincing and adds to the experience. I was disappointed to find that there was no 
 Half-Life multiplayer this time around, just Counter Strike Source, something that most people 
 will be very pleased with, but for people like me who enjoyed Half-Life's multiplayer experience, 
 it is a little of a disappointment. The game is fairly long, about 10-15 hours, which I would say 
 is longer than it took me to beat the original, but it has been months since and don't really recall 
 how long it took. One of the biggest things that bothered me about the game is how easy the end 
 seemed, but I was just expecting another battle in the likeness of the original. This game is some 
 of the most fun I have had playing a game this year, and highly recommend it to anyone, espesicially 
 fans of the original. I was a little shocked at how low of a score Gamespot gave (not that a 9.2 
 is low) , especially concidering that games like Halo 2 and GTA: SA, which are amazing games, received 
 better reviews, but oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -fool-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2004 5:56 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is the sequel to the highly acclaimed Half Life 1. In a sense, it lives up to the hype. 
 At times it's quite amazing, but it takes some time for Half Life 2 to start it's engines and go 
 full throttle. Therefore, roughly the first half of the game is rather dull and boring, but the 
 second half just gets better and better.
  
  HL2 opens like the original, in a cinematic introduction to the world. No weapons, just observations 
 of what is going on. You dont know much of what happens, but your objectives are easily given to 
 you in a realistic fashion. The game does most things realistically; keeping you immersed in the 
 game from the very begining. However, the stuttering of the graphics, and the long level loads 
 in between key times completely removes you from the game. The sense of you being Gordon Freeman 
 is lost when you get a nice loading screen for twenty seconds. As the game goes on, the level loads 
 become less obtrusive, but at first you must just deal with it.
  
  The gameplay starts off slow, and you end of doing much of the same stuff for a few hours. At first 
 I found the game to be repetitive, slow, and dissapointing. The game just isn't exciting. There 
 are no "cheap thrills," of having an enemy pounce on from the dark; most of the action is just 
 thrown at you. Those are the enemies, these are the guns, and you use them to shoot those guys. 
 The gameplay is as linear as it gets; there is usually 1 way to do things (in rare cases 2 ways) 
 and the story is not open ended. In fact, during the first half of the game you dont really know 
 what is going on. The story is non-existant at first, has some very un-dramatic twists, and overall 
 answers little to no questions from the original half life. 
  
  I found myself for the first half or first two thirds of the game moving from switch to switch 
 opening different doors with no main goal in mind. There was no story to motivate me. I was just 
 killing different groups of enemies. None of them were special in particular, nothing was of interest; 
 it was just mindless killing and moving on. This was set about by the absence of story. There are 
 no story fueled missions, you just go where the map leads you. I found some of the missions to 
 be tedious, and since you have no context for any of your ecounters I had no connection with the 
 game, and found it boring.
  
  The gameplay usually tends to focus on one aspect of it at a time. So instead of blending in multiple 
 different types of gameplay into all of the areas; most areas are cordoned off by thier gameplay. 
 In 1 area you use just a pistol and crowbar, in 1 area just a single vehicle, and in 1 area they 
 emphasize the use of the bugbait. The levels that you use these single gameplay styles can be as 
 long as 2 hours! 2 hours of using the same exact thing can be repetitive, and I found that to be 
 dissapointing as well. There is no level which blends all the gameplay elements together in one 
 level, but the later levels do a better job of it than the first.
  
  The first half of the game left me in awe of it's inability to deliver a solid game, but the last 
 third removed any doubt in my mind HL2 would be awesome. The second half of the game is where it 
 picks up. The weak story comes into play, you still use the same tactics as in one type of gameplay 
 per each level; but not as much as before. The last 1/3 of the game is where it shines. The last 
 4-5 hours are what the entire game should have been. If you find it boring at first, dont give 
 up and atleast play to the later levels.
  
  HL2 took me around 14 hours to beat on the hardest difficulty. It was actually easy to complete 
 because of the lame A. I. and the insane abundance of health packs. If I ever had less than 100 
 health, it would be replenished very quickly either by healthpacks or a health charger. It almost 
 balances out because the suit armor depletes extremely quickly.
  
  The A. I. is weak, and more or less just runs towards you or leans out to shoot and retracts. Enemies 
 will either rambo and charge you; or stay behind a wall and periodicly pop out to shoot you (in 
 the same location) . 
  
  The graphics are stunning, the truely are some of the best availible on the PC as of today, however 
 they are not perfect. Low resolution textures (even at the highest quality) , stuttering graphics, 
 major frame drops in high action scripted areas subtley bring the graphics down to a near-perfect 
 level. The lack of variety in character models is also disapointing. But the water effects, weapon 
 models, blood, is all great.
  
  The game's sound is solid, though could have been better. Some of the weapons are weak sounding, 
 like the sub machine gun (which is used frequently) . Though it is ignorable. The enemy sounds and 
 voice acting are very nice, though the badly placed scripted music is the killer. Throughout the 
 game at certain points music is scripted (usually some techno beat) to play at very high volume. 
 It is availible to be turned off in the options, but I wanted to play the game the developers meant 
 it to be played. The music is too loud, so you can't hear much, and usually adds nothing to the 
 gameplay.
  
  HL2 isn't too short for a standard FPS these days, at around 15 hours it's alright. I wouldn't 
 replay the whole game again, but would like to play certains parts again that I found interesting, 
 so the replay value is alright, and the multiplayer aspect is good. It's counterstrike with update 
 graphics. And though counterstrike is a very popular game, it would have been nice to see HL2 multiplayer 
 with it's weapons availble from steam, or something unique to see. HL1: Source is included, but 
 mine didnt work at all.
  
  Overall HL2 is a great game once you get to the later levels. The game is a let down until then, 
 but once you reach the last 1/3 of the game it makes up for it. HL2 delivers in graphics, sound, 
 and length, and has an everlasting effect you will not forget. Half Life 2 is a great game, it 
 isnt the revolutionary genious it set out to be, but it is great nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLord
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2004 5:47 am PT
Review:  This is easily one of the best FPS games I have ever seen or played! The graphics are stunning, 
 the action is sudden and intense, and it hurts to stop playing it at all. Once again to be Gordon 
 Freeman and that youre about to attempt to save the human race again with this amount of detail 
 was well worth the wait. I know that I haven't gotten very far in it yet but I know it can only 
 get better and better as it progresses and I KNOW I won't be disappointed by it in the end and 
 neither will you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REV777
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2004 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics are outsatnding, the AI is unbelievable, and the weapons are 
 sweet. The realism and detail says a lot about the kind of game half life2 brings to the table 
 for first person shooters. I would defiently recomend buying this game for your PC. It's not like 
 you have some other world to save at the moment. This game is like a prescription for drowsyness, 
 your computer needs it. The action never stops and when you think you can rest.... think again.... 
 O, yea did i mention it comes with counter strike source, enough said.
  
  P. S. Go Gators... Boo PS2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Master_P
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2004 2:38 am PT
Review:  It seems that we have been waiting for so long... and yes it finally came.
  If your not a proud owner of this game then let me tell you why this game is one of those great 
 classics that a gamer must play.
  
  At the end of this review ill try to answer 3 questions... is this game good.... was it worth the 
 wait... did it live up to hl name, now lets continue with the review.
  
  You will start out in an urban/futuristic city and soon meet up with your old friends and yes that 
 sweet old suit. After the into youll jump into the action and very quickly discover new weapons 
 and new rides. Rides are one of the things the make this game so great, when you pilot the hovering 
 boat youll fell like your in one of those James Bond movies. With that sad... I must present the 
 1st future that makes hl2 so great. It makes you fell like your in a movie, alot of other games 
 tried this and for the most part failed.... yeh remember enter the matrix.... I know i rather not. 
 Ok now lets talk about the weapons, there nothing really new or fresh except the gravity gun but 
 still tons of fun and I doubt any fps shooters will find them dull (even if you played over and 
 over half life 1 for the past 5 years) .
  Yeh, you also shouldnt forget the 2end feature that makes this game so great. Outdoor environments, 
 all of them are spectacular and I found there style to be great (in follow freeman I found that 
 it felt a bit like call of duty all over but it still all good) .
  Another thing that you couldnt find in the 1st hl was the great music... hl2 has a techno style 
 mix music witch is really great to list too while shooting guys though it doesnt distract you 
 in any why from the game.
  The story was ok.... though I found that i makes you ask your self more questions then it actually 
 answers witch is pritty disappointing but in the other why around makes you want to play hl3 even 
 sooner. But the good news is that hl2 really gives you bits of story between the action unlike 
 hl1 witch was a bit of story at 1st 25 hours of killing monsters and a bit of story at the end.
 
  And finely..... A lot of people say that half life 2 is good but it didnt revolutionized games 
 like hl1 did.... well in my opinion it did with its outstanding physical engine. The physics in 
 half-life 2 are great and well implemented into the gameplay.
  
  So 1) Is this a good game? .. Yes, infact its really one of the best games on pc ever something 
 i cant say about hl1, it sits on one of the top spots near games like mafia, no one lives forever 
 2 and so on. 
  2) Was it worth the wait? Its a personal question but for me no... And infact for vavle it didnt 
 too... while half life 2 has super graphics its still not the leader out there and i think if it 
 came out in 2003 it would had a lot more respect from the fans.
  3) Does hl2 live up to its predecessor... yes infact it delivers everything that hl1 was and a bit 
 more
  
  So in the end i have 1 thing to say PLAY THIS GAME
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CosmicD
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2004 12:04 am PT
Review:  Come to an end. I'm kind of sad that HL2 ever had to end really. The game simply brought some of 
 my expectations that I have from role playing games like zelda and final fantasy to the first person 
 shooter category. A category that is mostly associated with dumb shoot-away scenes and boring puzzle 
 solving where you just don't feel that you've done something really amazing. In HL2 it is different!. 
 You are involved in an interactive world where you can participate or at least, the many things 
 that happen sideways of you give you that impression. You're involved and the way the gameplay 
 and the characters are set up gives you that extra motivation to play, and gives you the feeling 
 that you are really participating. The ever mysterious storyline that lets you in on bits and pieces 
 of a greater thread lets you think about this game long after you've played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrrufusss
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2004 9:16 pm PT
Review:  It's been said before and with much more eloquence than I can muster, so let me just throw in my 
 2 cents by saying that Half Life 2 lived up to the hype, trancended the genre, and upped the anti 
 for all upcoming first person shooters. The sheer immersiveness of the environment, the incredible 
 characters, the rugged feel of the weapons, the absolutely shocking scripted events, and the non-stop 
 action all add up to an experience I won't soon forget.
  
  The only gripe I had with the entire experience was a problem with some stuttering audio immediately 
 after level loads and auto-saves. Valve is said to be working on this issue.
  
  So to sum it up: three words - BUY THIS GAME.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ro-co-to
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2004 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It has become nearly impossible to detach this game from the dramatic, soap opera-like stories 
 that surrounded its release and it is because of this perhaps that Half-Life 2 seems somewhat underwhelming.
 
  Its predecessor also encountered many a delay until it reached store shelves in November of 1998, 
 but these were more industry-common delays and not anything of the caliber of Half-Life 2's drama. 
 Because it is a sequel, the original Half-Life has to be considered as a valid comparison but its 
 successor and Half-Life 2 does not seem to manage to match the awe the original game inspired among 
 gamers. That being said, Half-Life 2 is a fantastic game nonetheless and the beauty of the world 
 it recreates as well as the depth of the characters involved in the game's story make it a worthy 
 successor to Half-Life.
  The post-soviet feel of City 17, the eastern european countryside atmosphere of Ravenholm in the 
 first half of the game are more than enough to justify almost all the drama around its release. 
 Gordon Freeman remains the main character and his mute involvement in the story works exactly as 
 well as it did in '98 or as it did in Grand Theft Auto 3; you may believe that this approach lacks 
 depth or you may think that it is the right decision on the part of the developers because of the 
 way one could identify with Freeman. Sadly, the plot of the story itself also matches the levels 
 of frustration Half-Life attained, a convoluted, somewhat bittersweet ending is the cherry on top 
 of an engaging, yet not entirely satisfying dramatic experience.
  On other fronts, the game excells: its graphics engine is able to bring unparalleled life to every 
 character you meet along the way, from facial expressions to their every slight movement. Large 
 outdoor environments as well as cramped quarters are equally well rendered and may bring some joy 
 to those who were disappointed by Doom 3's delivery. If the new Source engine is not able to represent 
 lighting effects as beautifully and make them as believable as the Doom 3 engine, it surpasses 
 the latter in every other respect.
  Valve has also made great efforts to give gamers an inspired soundtrack and sound effects, from 
 tasteful techno at key moments in the game to looming horror movie music for atmosphere in appropriate 
 environments, the music in the game is well executed; but the sound effects are what make this 
 game aurally impressive. This is perhaps more evident in Ravenholm where the tortured cries of 
 zombies and countless other creatures manages to do what the original Resident Evil on the PlayStation 
 did for those who first played it: make them look around for something or someone about to attack, 
 make them catch their breath after a fierce fight only to have it taken away again by a monstrous 
 and hideous creature that launches horrendous, life-sucking leeches at them. Without a cleverly 
 orchestrated soundtrack, all this emotion could not reach the levels it does in Half-Life 2.
  This whole, immersing experience is even more rewarding because Half-Life 2 does not require you 
 to own an incredibly powerful PC to enjoy the game at its fullest. The only downside to this is 
 that if you do not own a powerful PC, the loading times at the heart of every level in the game 
 may take you away from the whole experience, much like it may have back in '98; but it seems like 
 a small price to pay and it is soon forgotten once you are back into the thick of the game again.
 
  Because of the new graphics engine, new weapons like the gravity gun are quite a novelty and may 
 become a source of extra joy in an already great game that translates real-world physics like no 
 other. In the end, once you finish Half-Life 2 and get past the possible frustration surrounding 
 its storyline, you may have forgotten that this game should have been in your hands over a year 
 ago, in a time where it could have amazed you even more and rewarded you even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigarman7
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 19, 2004 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Dowload HL 2 from Steam. Took several hours to log on due to the heavy volume of trafffic they 
 must have had on Tuesday when it was released. Took HOURS to download it but expected that too 
 since thousands of people were trying to acquire it at the same time. Slow seems to be the rule 
 with this game. Gameplay was straightforward and easy to learn for anyone familiar with HL 1 and 
 Team Fortress. One interesting problem- if this game has been designed to be user friendly- system 
 requirements for processor and video card are minimal- why does it take twice the time to load 
 levels as Far Cry, which is takes much more resources to run than HL2? Makes the game fragmented 
 as level changes take between 30 seconds and 1 minuter to complete- and these are the small changes! 
 Am running a AMD 64 3200 w/ an ATI 9800 pro and have a fast cable connection to interface with 
 steam. Am considering buying a retail copy to determine if it is steam or the game itself which 
 drags. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0v3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2004 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Lets make it clear from the start, this is now officially my favourite game of all time. I've been 
 a huge fan of the FPS genre for many years now, i've played most that are out there, an not many 
 have really made a big impression on me. SoF, Max payne, Deus ex, Far Cry, Perfect Dark, Goldeneye, 
 Halo and the original Half-Life of course, are among my favourites to date. Needless to say from 
 all the hype, my expectations were quite high to say the least, and I was skeptical about whether 
 or not my expectations would be met, as we all know, hype usually always dissapoints us when it 
 comes to games (Doom 3, anyone?) . But as you can see by my first comment, I really enjoyed HL2. 
 It actually far exceeds everything I had hoped it would be, it's simply an incredible, engrossing 
 gaming experiance that keeps you glued to your screen for hours on end.
  
  From the moment you get off the train in City 17, till the very end, the atmosphere is superb. 
 The HL2 graphics work extremly well here, to give a gritty, realistic look and feel to the game. 
 The only other game that comes to mind where i've really been drawn in by the atmosphere was Max 
 payne. For instance, when you get to Ravenholm it sets the atmosphere up to be really creepy, and 
 in my opinion pulls it off better than Doom3 did. You'll suddenly hear the sound of some zombies 
 coming with their eary moans, or see a monkey zombie running up a pipe to get to you on a roof, 
 an you can actually see the pipe shaking as this happens, it's brilliant. The way Valve try to 
 immerse you into the game as Gordan freeman really works well here, as it did in HL1. You will 
 never see Gordan during the game, not ever, period. Nor will you see any loading screens, it all 
 loads on the fly, while playing. It all really helps to better the experiance. It really is a joy 
 to play.
  
  Firstly the graphics. They are superb, if you can set everything to max (you don't need a super 
 alienware pc to do this either) . The textures are really well done, the best i've seen on any game 
 to date. They look very realistic at times. The water, well, what can I say about the water? Apart 
 from its by far the most beautiful water ever to be appear in any game, period. The reflections 
 in it are gorgeous, the splashes are perfectly done, an any box, barrel or enemy you throw into 
 it floats in a completly believable way. Even when under water and gunshots are fired at you, you 
 can see them wizz past, an if you fire the pistol, bubbles will rise upto the surface. I found 
 the large outdoor enviroments to look very nice also, obviously not as appealing to the eye as 
 the small indoor enviroments, but that has to be expected. The only nitpick I could actually find 
 was that on a long wall during the coastline mission I noticed the same texture repeated all across 
 it, which looked a bit odd, but that really is me just trying to find one complaint. Apart from 
 that, I found the graphics to be flawless and the best the pc has to offer to date, add that to 
 the fact it will run on pretty low-end computers, and you have yourself one beautifully crafted 
 engine.
  
  I'll move onto the story now, the one thing that seems to be getting the most critisism. I think 
 too many people wanted the story to be given to them on a plate, to be more precise, I think people 
 were expecting to be told everything that was happening through the other main characters. Afraid 
 not, you'll have to listen to the tv's, read posters on the wall, look for other bits of information, 
 really get into the world and look everywhere. Why run past parts? It's a game, take your time 
 and search around, really get into it. I've seen on forums that people completed it within the 
 first day, well no wonder they didn'tthink much of the story, how can you appreciate or take in 
 anything from running through it so quick? But still, the story isn't the best you will find, it 
 does leave many questions unanswered, and there isn't enough of it, but that just makes me even 
 more hungry for Half-Life 3. Plus i'm sure there will be plenty of discussion regarding the story 
 from people with their own ideas of hat went on, an plenty of speculation about it.
  
  So what about the pysics I hear you ask? Well lets just say they left me amazed, and I will certainly 
 be going back through the game time after time to get another dose of pure gaming bliss. They behave 
 as realisticly as you could hope for. From barrels to crates, from combine, to headcrabs, everything 
 reacts the way you would expect it to. You won't fully appreciate what the pysics have to offer 
 until later into the game and you recieve your full arsenal of weapons, then you can really play 
 about and have some fun.... while disposing of your enemys in the process. No doubt you will play 
 about with boxs and bottles and what not in your very first 10 minutes in city 17, but if you get 
 impressed by that, you're in for a treat later on. I'll give a list of very cool things which are 
 in the game concerning the pysics and other things, but i'll explain a few situations you may find 
 yourself in, and how, if you wish, can get out of them. Picture this, you're in a prison, no way 
 out, 2 narrow corridors of about 30 feet for you to play in. An some walkways above. You're told 
 a whole invasion of combine is on its way, and you need to set up a defense with 3 turrets to defend 
 against them, what to do? The obvious thing would be to set them up infront and behind you then 
 get in the middle or hide in a cell assisting the turrrets from a relativly safe spot perhaps? 
 That may sound good in theory, an you may think you can hold them off, but you'll have a very hard 
 job doing so. They will whack the turrets over with their rifles if they get close enough, or they 
 will simply throw grandes to blow them over. So, what you can do is think a little more intelligently. 
 There are walkways above you, wouldn't it be much easier with the higher ground? Indeed, but no 
 way to get up there from the looks of it. Well then, go and search around for some crates, stack 
 them up, throw the turrets up there, quickly jump up and then set up a nice little defensive post. 
 It really is so much more fun than it sounds, an there are other situations where thinking a bit 
 more (and quickly) can setup some really interesting fights with the help of pysics. I won't spoil 
 anything else, but if you're a fan of FPS, chances are HL2 will give you some of the most memorable 
 gaming moments ever. I also want to mention the birds, they will behave like real birds, flying 
 off when they are alarmed, try shooting one down and looking at it, nice huh?
  
  The sound is another first class achievment. I honestly can't recall hearing one sound which sounded 
 out of place or not well done. The wepons sound real, especially the pistol which you will first 
 notice, sounds and feels more realistic than probably any other pistol i've used in a game. The 
 noise the combine make when they die at first made me laugh, an very satisfied, its a lovely little 
 touch. Everything from the headcrabs jumping at you and shuffeling around on the ground, to the 
 screaming monkey zombies running at you, sounds perfect. Add the perfect sounds with the impressive 
 graphics, and you really get a sense of being alone at times, an getting a bit creeped out, even 
 in bright outside areas, which isn't usually the case for a game. There are times where an ambient 
 techno tune kick in, which really set the mood and add to the experiance, although I think there 
 should of been a few more moments where music was used, but overall it was very well done, and 
 was definatly welcomed.
  
  The enemys in HL2 are a treat to fight against. You'll find many from the original, and some new 
 ones thrown in. Of course the headcrabs are back, bringing with them a new type of creepy crawly, 
 a sort of headcrab, but more like a large spider, which jumps at your face and injects you with 
 toxic poison. These guys can be annoying, but if you're good enough shouldn't be much of a problem. 
 The combine are adicticly fun to fight against, while not that difficult to take down, provide 
 a good challenge in numbers. The new addition of enemy which I was most impressed with were the 
 manhacks. These flying sawblade like robots come flying at you, trying to slice you up. They fly 
 at in a very real looking way, an when knocked back will also react appropriatly. At first its 
 best to knock them away with the crowbar, but later on you can grab them with the Gravity gun, 
 and send them flying at some combine, ohhh yeahhh. I was very pleased with the enemy A. I overall. 
 The combine would hide when they took some shots, an would take cover to reload. They would toss 
 granades if you decided to hide, which you could shoot away, or toss back at them using the gravity 
 gun. Its worth noted, that you can also use make-shift granade launches using your own grandes 
 and gravity gun. Simply roll a granade with the secondry fire key, then quickly switch to gravity 
 gun pick up and launch, great fun. Back to the A. I, the zombies would knock obstacles out of the 
 way to get at you, monkey zombies would climb drain pipes to get to you, combine will shoot through 
 crates if you hide behind them, an ant lions would only surface and attack if you stepped on the 
 sand. They would also fly across gaps to getto you. The path finding I found to be perfect, not 
 once did I notice enemys getting stuck.
  
  The weapons are very fun to use, if you choose not to use the gravity gun at any point (which is 
 advised if you want to get through many of the battles) . My favourite being the shotgun. It really 
 does pack a punch, and you can really feel it, thanks to the sound. The SMG is a standard one like 
 you'd find in most games, but the OIC is probably going to be one of your most used weapons. Its 
 a really nice weapon in terms of looks, but even nicer to use. It will take care of those combine 
 effortlessly, and the secondry pulse like weapon will disintrograte them, also you the white combine 
 you encounter late into the game will fire these at you, which you can send back to them if you 
 desire ;) The crossbos is a weapon to be feared, its quite powerful, and will kill a combine in 
 1 hit. The ammo is scarce, so use it wisely, prefrably when you see a combine close to the wall, 
 they will be pinned against it. Very nice. One of my most favourite additions is the bugbait, with 
 this you can command your very own army of ant lions to help you take out the combine. Use secondry 
 fire and they will follow you, throw a pod at a group to use them as a distraction while you sit 
 back an watch.... or help pick them off. Also if you're near a hole, more will pop up from it. You 
 will know what holes I mean when you get there. You also get an unlimted supply. Now whats a game 
 without a pistol? The pistol in HL2 feels just about right as far as power goes, it isn't too weak 
 and isn't too powerful, even in the late stages of the game it isn't completly useless if you find 
 yourself needing it. It feels the most realistic pistol in any game to date, by far. Along side 
 that is the almighty magnum, this really packs a punch, especially if you can get those headshots. 
 Just be acurate with it, as ammo tends to run out fast unfortunatly. The rocket launcher is heat 
 sensitive, meaning after you fire it, you can direct it to any place you please, meaning fighting 
 off combine gunships can be major fun, rather than frustrating. An last but by no means least, 
 the gravity gun, what needs to be said about this? Use it to pick up barrels, crates, bottles, 
 radiators, tires, ect, then launch them at whatever you please. Send enemys flying against the 
 wall, send flaming barrels and watch them blow up on impact. Toss cars out the way using the primary 
 fire, or send big metal benches and cabinets flying at combine with it, there are a ton of possibilities, 
 an all will play out differently each time. Let your imagination flow!
  
  Before I forget, the vehicles. You play quite a large part with the buggy and airboat. Both control 
 easy enough, although not as fun to drive as those in Halo, they still get the job done. The airboat 
 will go over both water and land. The airboat eventually has a weapon attached to it, which can 
 be used to take out combine with ease, and even take out gunships (which you have to do) . Overall 
 the airboat was fun to drive, and I was pleased with the feel and firepower. The buggy wasn't quite 
 as impressive, mainly because when I got stuck, it felt too hard to manouver out of it, it just 
 felt a little clumsy at times, but notthing I couldn't deal with. The weapon mounted was quite 
 cool, it didn't seem nearly as powerful as the one on the airboat, and lacked in long range, but 
 it was decent enough. I really enjoyed the parts of the game which used vehicles, although not 
 my favourite parts. It never got tedious or boring using them, which was good. Probably because 
 HL2 doesn't make you drive for 10 minutes while shooting loads of enemys and dodging falling boulders 
 and all that nonsense, it actuall made you get out and fight on foot aswell (the bridge part rocked) 
 which I was pleased with.
  
  That about covers everything I can think of, so lets finish off my review... if you're still with 
 me at this point.
  
  Some cool things to mention, which deserve credit:
  + Cardboard boxs actually flap open and behave like a real one would when you try to launch it, 
 it won't go very far as its not aero-dynamic or heavy.
  + The way the sky gets lighter/darker
  + Going bird shooting
  + Paint cans splatter whatever 
 you fire it at in white paint, yes even enemys. I enjoyed watching a white zombie coming at me 
 before I chopped him in half with a sawblade.
  + Pinning a combine against the wall with the crossbow, just like the stake gun did in Painkiller.
 
  + When you fire the crossbow into the bulletproof glass, half will stick out the other side. 
 
  + The ripples in the water when you get shot at while underneath.
  + Some guy built a temp ramp out of tires and planks, using it to get over a gate which was meant 
 to be turned off before the buggy was meant to go threw it, which was damn cool!
  + The combine eletric fields are really cool. You can't pass through them, but you can fire things 
 through them.
  
  Closing Comments
  Half-Life 2 delivers everything I expected it to, and more. I'm more than satisfied and will be 
 replaying through it many more times. It doesn't push forward the FPS genre as far as HL1 did, 
 but then that was never really going to happen. Theres a wide range of FPS games avaliable today, 
 unlike back in 1998, so it was a rather unreachable task to create a game that revolutionizes the 
 genre in the way HL1 did. In that respect, I don't particualy care. It done what it was set out 
 to do, and surpases all my expectations. It gives us a FPS that will provide a completly unique 
 and incredible gaming experiance if you don't get too caught up in rushing through it and there 
 being a lack of story. It has so many little details, so many moments of memorable gameplay, a 
 jaw dropping pysics system, and the look and sound of a game thats at the top of its class, that 
 it all adds up to be the best FPS in history in my mind. The only negatives I can find are that 
 steam appears to be a problem for some people, there is no multiplayer yet (but it WILL come) the 
 game stutters a little bit and the story was lacking a bit, but apart from these minor issues (theres 
 a chance they may become big problems for you) , I can't fault it. Bravo Valve, be proud of yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2ndbest
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2004 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I for one have always loved the original game where commando's 
  crashed down true the ceiling guns blazing and where the entire 
  facility where you were in 
 slowly went to hell... Now i have just
  finished the sequal. Which apart from some very minor things is a
  really good game. 
  I'll 
 start with all the positive things i've seen, of which there 
  are many. The source engine is truly amazing, no more looking at 
  bots from which it's obvious 
 there bots, this time around they really 
  do look human. The water looks marvelous, the area's and such also look 
  really good and realistic. 
 Most things are affected by physics with the 
  exception of a couple a nonbreakable affectable things, which are normal
  in any game. The AI 
 is okai, nothing absurd realistic or too stupid. Most 
  of the levels are pretty good and fun too play in, with the exception of 
  the airboat and buggy 
 levels which imho were pretty dull.. It's nice to 
  have vehicles and all but with little room to move it was pretty much the 
  same as a railshooting 
 level. Alyx is nice to look at, which is always a 
  good thing. The combine are wonderful to look at, from the simple soldiers 
  to the gunships, striders 
 and apc's. The alien species are pretty fun as well,
  counting headcrabs, zombies, their poison and fast counterpart, ant lions, their 
  big brother, 
 manhacks etc. Furthermore the manipulator gun is pretty fun to 
  use as well, which increases later on but i'll won't go further on that. 
  
  Now the negative 
 things. I'll start with the weapons. First of all the grenades, 
  they throw horrible. Either way to fast or too slow, it's hard to get a good 
  feel on them, 
 I cursed quite a bit when it just threw next to the crosshair 
  instead on to it. The second combine type machine gun is okai but I, and I think
  i'm not alone 
 on this, thought it would be more then just a heavy smg that shoots
  energyballs as alternate. Also a thing I noticed was that I was unable to shoot 
  while in zoommode. 
 I guess they changed it, cause it was possible in the movies. 
  If you can't shoot while in zoom, what's the point of having it. I don't need a 
  pair of binoculars. 
 Next some things about the overall levels. Like I mentioned 
  before the airboat and buggy levels were a bit boring, not really bad, but still. 
  It could 
 have bin more. Why are you unable to get into an apc? The things were 
  parked everywhere but you just couldn't get in, which feels unnatural. The rest of
  the levels 
 were really good, especially in the end. The citadel was awesome to 
  watch. Some things could have bin made a bit more random though. Like the electric 
  fence in 
 ravenholm. It would be much more simple to just cut the wire with an sawblade,
  but the blade just went through, meaning you had to do some kind of trigger. It felt
  lame, simple 
 as that. Still these are minor flaws in an overall very good game. 
  Going on to AI, the AI wasn't as good as Valve said. Nothing groundbreaking, yes they 
  took 
 some cover and threw some nades but that's about it. Your teammates later on aren't
  that gread to behold neither.. They usually tend to run into fire, block your way and 
  for some 
 odd reason are really polight and say sorry over and over again if they block you. 
  Too bad Gordon doesn't speak or he would should stfu and shuf them over. You don't really
  care 
 about them too, they get shot real easy and reinforcements are all over the place.
  The only real person you care about in the game is alyx and imho even her you see too 
  little 
 off.. Next, vehicles and turrets. There simple, airboat and buggy are practically 
  made of some kind of supermetal cause they never get any damage. Some things I noticed also 
 
  are; the gun on the chopper is the same as on the airboat, why doesn't the airboat gun charge 
 
  up first?, the tau gun is a bit underpowerd and why can't you carry on around.. I miss it.
  Turrets 
 are pretty simple, there's one kind of combine rapid fire mounted gun, but nothing 
  fancy. 
  
  Conclusions; it's just a really big game with likes and don't likes, too much to 
 sum up in 
  a single review. Overall it's good but some minor things could have made it just a bit better.
 
  My list of improvements:
  
  1 some better AI for teammates would be nice
  2 better use for the vehicle ability, some lame buggy and weird airboat thing but nothing which 
 you can actually use.
  3 Some more rest between action, hl2 sometimes makes you feel asif they're constantly throwing 
 enemies at you while you just want 5 minutes to take a breath and play around with physics a bit.
 
  4 less annoying grenades, god please, im begging you valve.
  5 a reason to fight for, some more explanation of the story please. I don't want to buy a strategy 
 guide in order to find some answers. Why are the vortigaunts free? Who are the combine actually? 
 How do you know doc Breen? How does he know Alyx's mother? 
  6 Some more time at the same place please. You barely made it into the city and you're forced to 
 leave, you're not in eli's lab for 5 minutes and you have to leave, after that you have to go back 
 to city17, why not stay there when you first got there, that makes sence doesn't it.
  7 Do things really fall apart when you blow them up, both the chopper and the gunships, make them 
 crash or something. Falling apart has bin done. 
  8 Not much like for the combine machine gun, it's basiccally a smg made by combine. 
  9 A better 
 ending, throw some energy balls into the glowy thing, thing go boom, and gman freezing you in time 
 again. It's not very exciting. 
  
  Rating: i'd say i'd give it a 9. The points above are minor and the overall game is quite good. 
 I had fun
  finishing it, well, combined with the now and then frustration of spawnpoints or triggers when 
 you just 
  saved with 5 health, but sh1t happens. Looking at the citadel really made it worth while getting 
 there. 
  The game itself will problebly spawn many good mods and a few addons and such which means you'l 
 enjoy the game for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2004 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a successfull follow up of its predecessor, definitely meets all of our expectations 
 and here is why it should be regarded as one of the best games ever. 
  
  Graphics wise the game is brilliant. It has such a very powerful graphics engine that makes you 
 wonder what could be next. However, even two years old graphics cards can easily cope with the 
 graphics demands, which makes us really appreciate the effort of the developers to support us and 
 not force us to buy a top nuts graphics card. The whole environment is so vast and beautiful that 
 you can just wonder around without getting bored and forget even your task. Especially the city 
 levels are looking astonishing from that perspective. Furthermore, the model designs are amazing 
 and its the first time that the characters feel so realistic and their facial reactions so life 
 alike. Simply the best graphics ever till now.
  
  The sound effects are excellent too. Having a Dolby surround compatible graphics card is essential 
 for this game. It is amazing when people talk and you move around, then you hear the sound from 
 your opposite speaker. This definitely helps during the game in order to track enemies without 
 having visual contact. The music is very good too and adds to the whole fast paced action concept 
 of the game. 
  
  Last but not least, the gameplay. I dont know where shall I start from, but I will try to separate 
 it into modules: 
  
  Game Physics. Oh my God could be probably a good expression of enthusiasm for most of you even 
 though you will be astonished enough to not find words to say. There is no game till now, that 
 has utilised such physics in the game. You can basically interact with anything in the environment, 
 which makes the gameplay really interesting. You can move barrels, throw glasses, swim, move objects, 
 break windows, etc. The most amazing thing is that you and your enemies as well are aware of this 
 fact and they can also use the physics against you. For example, you can shoot a wire to throw 
 a container to smash the enemies underneath, instead of having to kill them one by one. Excellent 
 job. 
  
  Weapons. Most of the weapons would be very familiar to gamers of the previous Half-Life. However, 
 the best weapon and never implemented before is the anti-gravity gun. It is simply so much fun 
 using it and you will probably forget using the rest of your guns. You can simply drag any item 
 and throw it with lot of power towards your enemies and smash them into pieces. The most fun was 
 throwing blades cutting zombies in half or throwing flammable things to explode them. 
  
  Story. The story is pretty good as well, will not get into any detail to avoid any spoilers. However, 
 the deliver the plot in a very smooth way, showing you that they spent some time designing the 
 whole thing. The introduction is amazing, with the whole concept that you dont know whats going 
 on, where you are and why they chase you. I added a mystery on the game. 
  
  Enemy A. I. To be honest I was expecting a bit more from the AI, and for my part I found most of 
 the enemies not challenging at all. I disliked the fact that most of the enemies simply stood still 
 without covering themselves, ducking or running. If they had similar approach like Far Cry it 
 would have been the perfect game. However, the game was not piece of cake especially in its hardest 
 level. 
  
  I cant review anymore because I feel there is no review that will do justice for this masterpiece. 
 You just have to try it by yourselves, otherwise you simply havent seen it all. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: syx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2004 10:18 am PT
Review:  Having looked forward to this game for quite a while, I still cannot comprehend the fact that it's 
 out, and it more than made up for my expectations.
  Including an amazing engine is just a small step for a game to be great, Half-Life 2 includes this 
 and also makes up where other shooters fall behind.
  The players look organic, the physics are realistically manipulated, faces look so real when people 
 are talking, and the game makes you feel like you're really there.
  Pixel shaders and reflective mapping only adds to the realism, this game is a true beauty.
  I 
 was also impressed with the sound, everything from the dialogue to the background music, it felt 
 like living an impressive movie.
  
  Not only does it include a solid engine, but great gameplay and an engaging story. The story and 
 dialogue captures you into the game and makes you feel like you really are Gordon Freeman. Never 
 has a game captured my emotions before, and Half-Life 2 has succeeded in that. Sometimes you feel 
 bad when someone dies, I found myself yelling "NOO!" when someone was a character was caught, and 
 the characters leave a lasting impression in your mind, it's hard to believe that they're not actually 
 real. Characters also have all kinds of emotions, and some of them even have a sense of humor. 
 Some people complain about the ending, but any real good story leaves a bit of cliffhangers, and 
 this game leaves open room for a sequal, much like the original.
  
  The arsenal of weapons also gets a 10 in my book, while many are from the original Half-Life, they've 
 changed for the better, and many more great weapons have been added, most notibly the gravity gun. 
 It can be used to solve puzzles, blast cars out of your path, or launch items into the faces of 
 your enemies, putting a smile on your face.
  
  The vehicles are also something that made the game even funner, the ultra fast buggy made getting 
 around on the highway much easier and funner, and yes running people over was fun. The airboat 
 was fun whenever you found something to use as a jump, but still not as fun as the buggy.
  
  As far as enemies, there's more than enough to kill, the most noticable are the Combine forces 
 occupying City 17. It's hard to tell if they're human or alien, but that doesn't matter because 
 all they care about is trying to eliminate the opposition, you.
  There's also manmade enemies like the manhacks, which fly around and try to cut you up.
  Aliens 
 galore, most of them make their return from the original game, with the addition of some. Headcrabs 
 still try to swallow your head, and barnacles still wait for unexpecting people, or even random 
 objects. The most annoying new aliens are the Antlions, which spawn out of the sand and try to 
 well, kill you, but you'll be able to control them at your will soon enough.
  Remember the vortigaunts from the first game? well they are no longer enemies, it appears these 
 creatues are very intelligent, and having no ruler they were persuaded into helping the resistance.
 
  
  Ah, remember all the puzzles in the original? Well there's even more of them. Although there's 
 not too many jumping puzzles, there's quite a few that require the use of the gravity gun, and 
 these are only accomplished thanks to the advanced physics engine.
  The only thing that bothered me was having to go far away, then all the way back just to accomplish 
 something.
  
  All in all, this is the most amazing game I've ever played, and it's undoubtedly the best game 
 ever. If you haven't played it yet, you don't know what you are missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okcomputer666
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 19, 2004 8:01 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game since I beat Half-life 1 and it was most certainly worth the wait. 
 This game has definitly changed my views on just how lack luster this year has been when it has 
 come to super hyped games. After the releases Doom 3 (it was cool for about 3 days then it was 
 a waste) and Halo 2 (biggest disappointment ever!) I was afraid that Half-life 2 would be another 
 over hyped money machine. But since I got it, I haven't really been able to stop playing the darn 
 thing! The graphics are simply mind blowing. The sound is still top notch, even though most of 
 the sounds are recycled from HL1. The controls are responsive, and it runs amazingly well. The 
 graphics are far better than Doom 3 just due to the fact that the world is just so amazing and 
 beautiful to look at. No dull pitch black corridors full of the same machinery over and over again. 
 The AI is pretty good as well. Unlike in Halo 2, the Combine have no problem with noticing you 
 when you are right in front of them, unlike the retarded elites who are quite fond of standing 
 in place while you murder them. Plus the friendly AI works alot better than the marines in Halo, 
 even though they can't drive vehicles. Along with the great AI, HL2 has a simply amazing physics 
 engine. I can't remember the last time I've had so much fun with playing around with the sorroundings. 
 I just can't can't say enough about this game, except that it is ruining my college life. so kudos 
 to Valve for making an amazing game, which tops my favorite games list by beating out the original. 
 Plus, I must add that I equaly hate Valve for ending my education carrier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavhad
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2004 7:52 am PT
Review:  Truely an amazing and well developed game that is worthy of being called one of the best. Worth 
 the wait? In many ways, yes. 
  
  The lighting during your journey throughout the Half Life 2 world is remarkably the best I have 
 ever seen. Time passing by through each level is very well integrated into the game and was completely 
 used at a score so far beyond the standard that it is very hard to even believe some day that a 
 game will out do this.
  
  The animations seem more fluid and life like than before, with the days of rotundness far far in 
 distant memory. These are considerably present during the cutscenes. Every part seems well rehearsed 
 and seize the moment of humanity profoundly. I was literally shocked at how dedicated every scene 
 was to creating a believeable environment for player's to immerse themselves in.
  
  Nothing ever seems to distracting as to let you focus on one particular moment. Everything flows 
 continuously, and at an interesting pace that moves perfect with the game. Enemies are flawless 
 in their movements and reactions. The AI is just plain awesome. Getting bunched together as if 
 there is no other place around your character got to be a little bit annoying, but nothing too 
 bothersome. Everything dies with grace, as blood flies and bodies fall. The sound of the death 
 and pain inflicted is also satisfying to just hear, again and again.
  
  I do not know if all of the people involved in the game have physics degrees, but it is obvious 
 the painstaking amount of time and labor poured into the physics engine. The gravity gun has a 
 million and one uses to it that even the most absurd combinations of grabbing objects becomes ways 
 to bash enemies senseless. Vehicles suddenly become weapons, part of blockades, or even to ward 
 off enemy fire. If the game just had this one feature in it, and gave you an environment to play 
 in, you could literally play the game for days on end and still have other people play the game 
 in a comprehensively altered fashion.
  
  Just an overall geniusly made game. I can not complain. Buy the game, and you will figure out for 
 yourself. Do have an up to date system or be willing to go buy some more RAM and a faster vid card, 
 because you will be kicking yourself if the game starts to get choppy and you are not able to enjoy 
 the game in it's full magnificence. Perfection perfected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fib112
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2004 7:48 am PT
Review:  HL2 rocks and I've been waiting for it without much patience, like everyone else, for a while. 
 I have had no problems installing it via Steam and it played well right away. It wasn't long before 
 I tried upping the levels from medium to high for the graphics settings and I'm suprised that my 
 system (p4 2.4 533 bus 512mb ram geforce 6900) can run it on high settings. I get some sound skipping 
 but I'm about to add another stick of 512mb to see if that addresses the problem.
  
  The graphics are truly stunning. So much so that I've spent some time just looking around to soak 
 it all in. So far my favorite level was on the hovercraft type boat. The environment just looks 
 so real, from birds flying around, to reflections from the water and distorted objects below the 
 water. I've never seen water rendered this way. It was great in Far Cry but it's even better in 
 HL2. Amazingly enough when you start moving around quickly in the boat, the effects continue and 
 my frame rate didn't seem to drop. Suddenly rockets are being fired at me and the objects they 
 hit fall apart according to the physics engine. Everything seems so real it's hard to get over 
 it. And when things blow up they blow up differently because of all the variables involved in the 
 physics engine. So the game is truly reactive with regards to it's environment. That's cool. I 
 play the same levels over again to see how they play out differently. And now that my computer 
 seems to be able to handle the game on the high level, I'll have to check out the water levels 
 again.
  
  The music/sound is awesome too. The sounds of the guns are beefy and soundtracks kick in during 
 tense scenes that just jack up the tension. It's great in the beginning when these elements are 
 introduced one by one. First some of the weapons and they sound cool, then random conversations, 
 to people who react to developing problems that are only triggered when you walk into a room. Then 
 all of a sudden the police force is chasing you. When it reaches it's height and you think your 
 not going to make it, a kick ass tune kicks in and you just think it can't get any better and it 
 does as you realize flammable exposive barrels are being launched in your direction. You just have 
 to turn up the volume.
  
  This game will revolutionize the industry. Steam is awesome and I haven't had any problems although 
 I know some have. I don't have to worry about the cd and if I want to play the game somewhere else 
 I just sign into Steam and download it. The only thing that seems to be negative is the story line. 
 I can't really figure out what I'm doing and what my goals are. I'm basically just getting chased 
 around. But even if the story is a little lacking, everything else is so cool I'm willing to overlook 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rakanishu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2004 7:07 am PT
Review:  Awesome game! 
  
  Only real let down is not knowing what the hell is going on the whole time you are playing. Even 
 when its over you dont really know what happened. Same kind of ending as the first one, leaving 
 everything unanswered. Put that aside and you have a truely awesome single player game.
  
  The physics engine allows for a very destructable environment and there are often other ways of 
 killing your enemy aside from shooting them.
  
  The valve team also did an incredeble job of creating sense of setting and environment. The alien 
 citadel in city 17 is truely creepy when looking up at it from the outside and even creepyer when 
 you finally venture into it yourself.
  
  The characters in the game are very real too. Great voice acting and facial animations really allow 
 you to percieve them as people rather than animated polygons.
  
  Go buy this game if you haven't alreay... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoscang
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2004 6:58 am PT
Review:  What can say about Half Life 2 that you havent heard? Probably nothing beside run out and get this 
 game. Wow, words cannot describe the physics engine! I just pray they make a opposing force / blue 
 shift based off this game, I really want more! The game played amazing and thats all I want in 
 a first person shooter (and a good shotgun! and it has that!)
  The game made me piss my pants especially ravenholm. AND WHAT WAS VALVE THINKING WITH THOSE BLACK 
 HEADCRABS! Give us all nighmares! 
  Geez I would like to see a cacodemon vs Black Headcrab game! WOW 
  The end was simply jaw dropping!!! 
 You have to see it!
  
  
  My only complaint was the loading times???
  I have a p4 3.4 with a gig of mem and a 9800 pro and it took 30 sec between times.
  Also on other 
 note when I was following Alex, after it loaded there were two Alex's.
  The two Alex's stood there just looking at each other, now that scared the crap out of me!
  Also 
 the fact that I had to wait till 2:00 AM central time to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2004 6:47 am PT
Review:  HL2 has superior level-design that far surpasses any other recent game in the action-FPS genre. 
 It certainly supasses the dark, boring, uninspired hallways of Doom3. It even surpasses Far Cry 
 and I really enjoyed that one. The single-player game is worth anyone's time.
  
  Where HL2 really shines is the tense atmosphere and sense of dread it creates in the player about 
 what might be around the next corner. The orginal HL was excellent at creating atmosphere (well 
 until it got to the planet Zen levels, which were pretty annoying) . The sequel never fails to impress 
 me. HL2 is an expertly and beautifully designed game.
  
  The driving levels grew on me; You get a nice speed-rush and I like that you can run over crates 
 for health while you drive -- not realistic -- but fun. In later driving levels you can stop and 
 check out the houses in the area -- there's always a fun shoot-out waiting for you at these pit-stops. 
 There's more driving than you might think in this game.
  
  HL2 rewards exploration to some degree but nothing on the scale of action RPG's like Deus Ex and 
 System Shock did. Still it is rewarding to look around and see if there some health or ammo hidden 
 somewhere. You can't build your character and get new abilities. The games I rate the highest let 
 you do that. Half-Life 2 might be best described as a slower-paced first-person-shooter.
  
  Any Faults? Well, in Half-Life 2, the atmosphere is better than the "story," which strays into 
 too much vagueness about why you are there and why you have to go to a certain destination. The 
 scripted moments in HL2 are fantastic and make up for the somewhat vague story-line. The level 
 geometry for cliffs and rocks will often look unrealistically jagged and pointy while the rest 
 of the world looks great. These are all minor faults. 
  
  The only SERIOUS FAULT: The Enemy AI is not so hot:
  
  The enemy AI is passable but Far Cry 
 has much much better AI than HL2. Those enemies would look for cover when you shoot at them and 
 they wouldn't simply run toward you in the open. All you have to do most of the time in HL2 is 
 "camp" and wait for them to come to you. They'll throw a grenade but still keep walking directly 
 to you. Really, Half-Life's AI could use a patch if a corrective patch is at all possible. 
  
  The gravity-gun is a great new weapon. Future games will copy it. You can pick up objects and 
 use them as weapons. It is very satisifying to move a car out of the way with one blast of this 
 thing. 
  
  The worst thing I can say about HL2 is that it is an amazing game that isn't really revolutionary. 
 I'm a tough rater, and HL2 gets a solid 9. The only way it could get a 10 score is if it had RPG 
 elements in it like System Shock or the first Deus Ex. 
  
  Oh, the Preacher character and his environment is a nice rip-off of the old 70's movie The Omega 
 Man and the bugs look and act a whole lot like those in Starship Troopers. Nothing wrong with borrowing 
 ideas from good sources. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2004 5:56 am PT
Review:  In 1998, Valve Software released Half-Life, the groundbreaking first-person shooter that almost 
 single-handedly revolutionized a genre. Not only did the game feature a cinematic, immersive experience 
 with almost seamless environments and a fascinating story, but the flexibility of its online code 
 paved the way for Counter-Strike, the most popular modification ever created. Not only are expectations 
 high for the sequel, but Valve faced an uphill battle in a year crowded with fantastic FPS's like 
 Far Cry, Unreal Tournament 2004, and Halo 2. Impatient gamers need worry no more: Half-Life 2 is 
 a thrilling experience that bests the original in every conceivable fashion, not just in terms 
 of its powerful technology, but in the way the technology serves the gameplay. Make no mistake: 
 Valve's latest creation is an action masterpiece, clearly a superior shooter in a breakout year, 
 and possibly the best FPS ever created for the pc  or any other platform. 
  
  Once again, players step into the shoes of Black Mesa scientist Gordon Freeman, this time arriving 
 at his new home in a scene reminiscent of the first Half-Life's tram ride. Ostensibly, Gordon is 
 being brought here to work for the mysterious G-Man, but soon enough, Barney, Dr. Eli Vance, and 
 Eli's daughter Alyx surreptitiously pull Gordon into an underground movement of revolutionaries 
 determined to overthrow the Combine - the enigmatic, tyrannical beings that have rounded up humanity 
 into a concentration camp known as City 17. Like Butcher Bay in The Chronicles of Riddick, or Black 
 Mesa in the original Half-Life, City 17 is the ominous co-star in an allegory that explores humanity's 
 darkest fears of conspiracy and paranoia. The residents of City 17 are there because the Combine 
 know what is best for them, and Freeman not only must survive an entire bureaucracy intent on 
 annihilating him and the freedom he represents; but he must rise to his status amongst the persecuted 
 as a potential savior. 
  
  Like the first Half-Life, there are no cutscenes in its sequel. There are occasional loading times, 
 but they are fairly brief and never truly remove the player from the immersion. Instead, we experience 
 the narrative from Gordon's perspective, although he remains faceless and voiceless. Various characters 
 you encounter keep you abreast of the ongoing events and the history of City 17, but you make discoveries 
 when Gordon does. Unlike in other FPS's, you never have a specifically identified mission, apart 
 from vague instructions imparted by your underground brethren. Instead, the game design itself 
 keeps you focused by keeping your adversaries constantly on your heel, and by remaining open-ended 
 enough to allow you to discover solutions for yourself without ever letting you to feel lost or 
 frustrated. You will encounter certain puzzle elements, but these are never as vexing as those 
 in the first Half-Life; while some must be solved in multiple parts, the solutions are generally 
 common sense, and seem perfectly in context, if a tad wearisome. 
  
  Gordon starts with a basic arsenal of the revered crowbar and a pistol, and eventually acquires 
 a good variety of weapons, such as the usual submachine gun, shotgun, and grenades. They all pack 
 a good deal of punch, although we grew partial to the weighty .357 Magnum in Gordon's possession. 
 Later, however, Half-Life 2 reminds us that we are in the seemingly not-so-distant future, and 
 introduces some unique new weapons: the pheropod, which summons a swarm of ant lions that you can 
 order to attack your unsuspecting victims; a pulse rifle, which shoots energy beams at your target; 
 and our favorite, the gravity gun, which you can use to forcefully clear nearby objects out of 
 your way  or to pick up various items and use them as protection or projectiles. 
  
  Your bastion of enemies run the gamut, from Combine grunts donned in gas masks, headcrabs and their 
 poisonous variant, to the flying buzzsaws and giant striders that patrol the streets of City 17. 
 Appropriately, the level of AI and type of challenge each enemy presents is quite distinct. Lumbering 
 zombies rarely present any true difficulty until you find yourself cornered, although they are 
 solid foes in close quarters. Ant lions and headcrabs pounce with striking agility, the grinding 
 manhacks hone in on you with an astonishing degree of recklessness, and the combine troops exhibit 
 artificial intelligence on par with the stars of the genre, such as Far Cry and No One Lives Forever 
 2. Humanoid enemies are rather aggressive, but quickly adapt by flanking you and using various 
 environmental items as cover. In one example of this elevated AI, we guarded a door, waiting for 
 the Combine grunts to stream in. We quickly felled the first two to rush in, but the third in line, 
 wary of his comrades' fates, quickly strafed to the side, avoiding our barrage of gunfire. All 
 of your adversaries will present a unique challenge, and while Half-Life 2 is not the hardest shooter 
 on the market, it is by no means easy on standard and high difficulty. 
  
  While at first the nifty physics may seem like an afterthought as you stack barrels and throw around 
 crates, after your acquisition of the gravity gun and the subsequent trek through Ravenholme, it 
 becomes obvious just how important the environmental objects really are. Fling circular saw blades 
 through a row of zombies to decapitate them; grab a flammable barrel and throw it into a mess of 
 Combine troops to witness a fantastic flaming fiasco. If you are crowded by dangling barnacles, 
 toss them a piece of wood to feed on so you can slink past. Not only does it keep the combat fresh 
 and exciting, but it removes elements we often take for granted in other shooters. No longer can 
 you hide behind that wooden crate: your foes' bullets will blow it to smithereens. Think you are 
 safe keeping distance between you and the lumbering undead? Not anymore: those creatures at which 
 you toss crates will be tossing them right back. Suddenly, Half-Life 2 has thrown genre conventions 
 out the window to create new ones, without ever losing sight of its predecessor's influence.
  
  Half-Life 2's level design is conducive to its ambience of unrelenting pressure. As you discover 
 on your heart-pounding ride through the radioactive sewers, City 17 is huge, but the game keeps 
 you on track by never giving you full access to it at any given time. Instead, the ongoing chase 
 pushes you through levels that feel relatively open but are still mostly linear. Your leeway is 
 not necessarily in where to go or what to do, but how to get there and do it. Enemy encounters 
 are generally scripted, and while how you choose to deal with them is up to you, you don't have 
 a wealth of potential solutions at your disposal as you would in Deus Ex  or an enormous map to 
 use to your advantage, as in Far Cry. Instead, Half-Life 2 finds a striking middle area, keeping 
 the player on the edge of his seat by keeping him somewhat confined, but still giving the impression 
 of a sprawling industrial wasteland in which the horizon is not just a 2D backdrop but a real, 
 honest-to-goodness region that you will eventually be exploring. 
  
  While you can save your game at any point, Half-Life 2 uses a checkpoint system familiar to Halo 
 fans, and your game is saved virtually without your knowledge with a fair degree of frequency. 
 You are still clad in your hazard suit, and the story provides a quick and sensible explanation 
 for the health generators scattered about the city. You will also find ammo and health packs strewn 
 about, although unlike in other shooters where they seem absurdly random, in Half-Life 2 they never 
 seem out of place within the context of the particular scene. The heads-up display is uncluttered, 
 showing you the status of your health, your suit, and other information as needed, such as how 
 much air you have left while underwater, or how much energy is left in your flashlight. 
  
  Half-Life 2's greatest triumph, however, is not in any of these individual elements, but in the 
 Orwellian milieu created by constant reminders that you are not the hunter, but the hunted. From 
 the opening escape, to the most memorable helicopter scene since Max Payne, to the moments the 
 action breaks wide open, Big Brother is not just watching you  He is out to destroy you. Buzzing 
 drones float above you to take your photograph with a blinding flash; ubiquitous video screens 
 serve to remind you of your captors, and that they will not rest until you are dead; and the scheming 
 underground movement harboring you is as oppressed and inspired as any ragtag band of revolutionaries 
 in history. For better or worse, Gordon has earned a reputation of messianic proportions, and no 
 other game with the small band of heroes vs. the oppressive regime theme has ever been so urgent, 
 or so timely. 
  
  The game's multiplayer component is the singular Counter-Strike Source, which brings few changes 
 to the original Counter-Strike's popular formula. For better or for worse, Valve chose to concentrate 
 on Half-Life 2's brilliant single-player campaign, leaving future online developments to the mod 
 community that contributed to the original's enormous success. The update includes a host of new 
 maps, as well as popular old ones translated to the new engine. In CS Source, players side with 
 either terrorists or counter-terrorists in quick battles for supremacy. In between skirmishes, 
 players can purchase new weapons or upgrades to use in the next round. While it plays somewhat 
 like team deathmatch with an RPG leveling element, there are variants on certain maps, so counter-terrorists 
 may need to diffuse a bomb before it explodes, or terrorists must hold onto their hostages lest 
 they be rescued. 
  
  There is no doubt that Counter-Strike is an acquired taste, and while it is easy to play, in and 
 of itself, the community is notoriously experienced and unforgiving. It is easier to learn with 
 friends before jumping out into the wild world of random servers, but once you learn the ins and 
 outs, the addictive and fast-paced action leaves no doubt as to why the update will remain as popular 
 as the original. We are sad to say that the impressive physics engine does not translate into multiplayer 
 success as it did in the campaign. While you can still manipulate objects, the effect on the gameplay 
 is negligible, since it really is all about the gunplay. While we wish there were more multiplayer 
 variations, there is no doubt that Half-Life 2 will still deliver a great deal of online mileage, 
 and along with the memorable, 20-hour long single-player game, it is a terrific value. 
  
  It is worth noting that to play Half-Life 2, you must activate it via Steam, Valve's innovative 
 content delivery service. There were initial reports of launch instability regarding Half-Life 
 2 activation. However, Inside Gamer Online experienced no stability issues with Steam, nor with 
 the game itself. Offline and online play ran with no noticeable bugs, and our pings remained quite 
 high in busy servers. 
  
  The much ballyhooed Source Engine powers Half-Life 2, and it is as great a triumph as id's Doom 
 3 engine, due not just to its gorgeous open-air environments, but also to the smooth, flowing framerates 
 and vast draw distances. Almost everything you see in any given shot is completely rendered, with 
 no noticeable pop-up or inconsistent textures. Most impressive about this technology, however, 
 is the body and facial animation of both friends and foes. When Alyx or Eli are speaking to you, 
 their face reflects true emotion, and their eyebrows and facial muscles move expressively as they 
 speak. Mouth movements are astounding; these people don't just lip-sync  they are truly speaking 
 to you, and the way their eyes follow you and their faces express human emotion are a large part 
 of why you end up caring for the inhabitants of City 17. The city itself is palpably gritty, as 
 grimy as an urban ghetto, yet brought to frightening life with abundant detail, such as crows perching 
 on a nearby post or citizens being frisked in their ramshackle apartments. 
  
  The game's sounds are as impressive as its sights. Every character is brought to life with believable 
 voice acting from an impressive cast. Eli sounds as weary and good-hearted as he looks, Alyx talks 
 like the loyal rebel that she is, and there is no weak point to be found from the supporting players. 
 Sound effects are often startlingly real, from the powerful boom of the pulse rifle to the pounding 
 footsteps of the towering striders. Some aggressive techno beats help intensify the action, but 
 Valve knowingly left that effect for times they needed to create a heightened atmosphere prior 
 to intense encounters. A few of the sound elements are the same as in the original Half-Life, such 
 as the buzz of your activation button; but some added details, like the way you hear the flatline 
 of the defeated troops, or your signal that you are running out of ammo, help remind us what makes 
 the solid production values so striking: the technology serves the game, instead of simply existing 
 in order to impress us. 
  
  It would be all to easy to continue to list the many details that help push Half-Life 2 to the 
 top of an overflowing heap of action games in 2004. Instead, we can simply state with absolute 
 certainty that Half-Life 2 is a must-play title, a rare kind of entertainment experience that exists 
 on its own level of excellence, and is simply the best pc shooter of this year  and possibly any 
 year. Stop reading and go play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jechty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2004 4:40 am PT
Review:  Wow is the only word that I could describe for this game when it first came out. I sit down and 
 played it nonstop for about 4 hours. The game does a great job of creating a virtual world around 
 you. Half-life 2 will have you on the edge of your seat for a good part of the game which is what 
 FPS games should be focused on and be about. The game does this by simply using the graphics, sound 
 and the gameplay (physics, guns, explosions etc..) to put you into the action and the game itself. 
 It does this so well people experience motion sickness when playing this game.
  
  The gameplay itself is really great. The game has a variety of different guns that are really fun 
 and enjoyable. On another note, the game does a well job with the story, but sometimes it can be 
 a little frustrating trying to figure out what is going on, but in my opinion this feeling of not 
 knowing adds more suspense to the game. Another impressive gameplay spectacle is the physics. To 
 date, no game has yet to use physics as a primary part of the gameplay and action, Half-life 2 
 adds physics into the game well and into place. The enemy AI, while not the hardest in the book, 
 is very realistic and not too smart like games such as Far Cry. All in all, the gameplay is top 
 notch and a very enjoyable experience.
  
  On to graphics, as soon as you load the game you realize that the game has supreme graphics and 
 is very impressive to view. From outdoors to underground to beachs the game manages to capture 
 every area with a good look. Not to mention how great and realistic the facial expressions are 
 on the charactar models. Best graphics to date.
  
  From guns firing to footsteps and groaning of enemies the sound is reallly good. The guns sound 
 great and not underpowered in game such as doom 3. My only complaint is that they needed more in 
 game music the just the few ambient sounds that play when the action tenses.
  
  Will I be playing this game much next year or even next month rather, probably not. The game is 
 wonderful the first time through, but it's like watching an action movie you done seen 3 times, 
 the gameplay still fun and enjoyable yet the will to keep playin will diminish because of the New 
 Game -  Level Select and the fact that you already know the story. Another reason value is lower 
 is because it has no Multi-player. It does with counter-strtke source, but not everyone likes CS: S 
 and some people prefer classic deathmatch.
  
  Great game and will be remembered as one of the best FPS games for along time. The action is top 
 notch and a must buy for anyone who enjoys shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Major_Pwnage
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2004 3:31 am PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best game that has ever been made ever since the Pong was made. Half-Life 
 2 is based on one of the most popular games, Half-Life. Half-Life won 50 game of the year awards 
 for achiving something no game had. So does this one. Half-Life 2 once again sets you playing as 
 the hero of Black Masa Gordon Freeman. When you start out the game you have no idea of what is 
 going on or why you are there. You start to uncover the story mid-way through the game. The games 
 locations are in different areas such as outdoors night and day and some indoors. 
  
  Getting down to gameplay. This game truly revolutionizes the FPS genre because how interactive 
 the objects are and the enviroment. You can choose to play this game in many way. You can go for 
 the old running and gunning or you can use tactics to outsmart your enemys. Or use the enviroments 
 objects to defeat your enemy. That is something no other game was ever able to do. The graphics 
 are one of the best ever made. It may not look as good as Doom 3 but still looks fantastic to look 
 at. The detail of the enviroment, characters and weapons are so high you think your almost into 
 the game. The feeling and atmosphere is excellent
  
  The sound is also a great strong point with giving you music that fits into the game. The AI is 
 the best Ai ive seen since Halo. These enemy soldiers have a amazing team stragety that they try 
 to pull of on you. The engine has been in work for 6 years and it truly shows what it can pull 
 off. The games multiplayer is Counter-Strike Source which is based on the source engine for Half-life 
 2. There are already many mods in development for Half-Life 2 which will make the game last for 
 many years to come just like the original Half-Life
  
  There is no doubt that this game is better than Half-life in everyway. Not only Half-Life but also 
 everysingle game that has come out in the past. The gameplay it self is bug free and you never 
 see any glitches or game miss behaviour. This game is hands down greatest game of all time and 
 trully deserves many game of the year awards just like its first one. The game is Major Pwnage 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeargantGoat
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2004 3:03 am PT
Review:  It's been two long, sleepless days since I first unlocked my copy of Half Life 2, and in that time 
 I've been taken on an amazing journey through a one-of-a-kind gamespace. Half Life 2 immediately 
 gripped me with its beauty, immersiveness and realism, but kept me playing all day and night with 
 solid and extremely entertaining action. Every step of the long journey had some new thrill or 
 amazing action sequence that kept me on edge the entire time. No game is without its critics, but 
 as you can tell I'm not one of them. Half Life 2 is flat-out phenomenal, and is just as great and 
 entertaining an experience as its amazing predecessor.
  To contest Jason Ocampo's review, I thought the story was very well executed and believable. Sure 
 the ending was anticlimactic and (as usual) , enigmatic, but the Bungie-esque device of placing 
 the main character into events that are already set in motion is a very effective and immersive 
 way to make a game. The atmospheric quality of Valve's design is once again on display, as City 
 17 and the outlying areas really seem to come to life. 
  The graphics themselves are top shelf. As another reviewer said, things look more realistic than 
 in Doom 3 simply because they haven't been glossed and bump-mapped excessively. Characters look 
 scarily lifelike, as do aliens and zombies. The weapon animations are excellent, and the scale 
 of some of the enemies is amazingly intimidating. All these elements add up to a very visually 
 appealing and immersive gameworld, hands down the best to date. 
  The gameplay is flat out thrilling. Every encounter with enemy foes yields something new, from 
 battling soldiers and CP's to facing the mighty and fearsome Striders. Some of the most memorable 
 sequences for me were ones where I was on the run from these large foes, frantically looking for 
 heavy artillery to return fire. The weapons are fairly well balanced, although I will agree that 
 the last level plays fairly easily. However, the weapon they give you for the final showdown is 
 still intensely fun to use, which made up for things in my mind. 
  The sound is a very important element in Half Life 2. The squeal of enemy troop radios can alert 
 you to their presence, as can the clatter of their shoes on the floor. Each sound effect is excellent 
 and in some cases very important to hear. The weapons all have very powerful and proper sounds, 
 and the enemy aliens and soldiers sound intimidating but foreign. The music is well done as well, 
 chiming in to punctuate a particularily moody moment or to enhance a tense battle. 
  As for the multiplayer, who can argue with Counter-Strike: Source? CS finally got the graphical 
 overhaul it needed after six years of extensive play. Although there is no deathmatch mode based 
 on the game world itself, I'm sure the mod community will more than make up for it. 
  I can tell you all, in conclusion, that I was completely taken captive by this game, and it was 
 a wonderful ride. If Half Life 3 takes Valve another six years, I know I have a game that I will 
 gladly play anytime until then. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrosepa
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2004 2:40 am PT
Review:  Half Life was one of the most successful PC shooters of out time. Even after six long years, it 
 is still being played to his day. Now, finally, the next chapter has been given to us. After so 
 much, it is finally done and finally, millions of Half Life fans around the world can play one 
 of the greatest games ever.
  
  Its 23:55 on a Monday evening for the people on the west coast of North America. Only five minutes 
 remain before the clock strikes midnight, and the release of Half Life 2. The seconds are counting 
 down slowly, everyone waiting for Half Life 2, waiting to see their PC unlocking something that 
 has laid dormant for such a long time. Three minutes remain on the clock, I slowly preparing my 
 room, closing the curtains, closed my door, and took another sip from my coke. I, was ready for 
 Half Life 2. 
  
  I was listening to GameSurge Radio and talking to Skullhozer and a few other friends during the 
 last few minutes before the game was released. We talked about how cool its going to be, how much 
 we are going to play it and when we will brag to other people that we have Half Life 2. I just 
 never had a clue, about how good this game actually is. One minute left before HL2 was released, 
 I took another sip of my coke, looked at my watch, and said to myself, this is it, this is the 
 last time I will be without Half Life 2. Everyone on IRC, MSN and all the people from GameSurge 
 Radio started to count-down that last 10 seconds before midnight. My heart was racing, knowing 
 that in a few minutes, it will experience something totally new, and so very strange. Half Life 
 2has been released onto thousands of home PCs around the world. Everyone watching the game authenticate 
 through steam, and waiting for it to finished decrypting. The Half Life, is out. 
  
  Half Life 2 starts out with a man whom we call, the G-Man. Someone very mysterious, and someone 
 we dont really know much about. The famous Wake up, and smell the ashes, Mr. Freeman. repeated 
 in my head as I watch the screen. You start off once again on a train ride, en route to City 17, 
 luckily this time the ride is not as long as in the original. At this point, you are very much 
 confused, you dont know where you are, and you dont really know what you are doing there. As 
 you step of the train, you immediately notice how well this game actually looks, and while hearing 
 the Welcome, welcome to City 17 in the background, you cant help but be amazed.
  
  Everything is just so confusing, you have absolutely no idea where you are, or even where you have 
 to go, but you just keep walking. I remember being told to pick up a can by one of the combine 
 soldiers, being who I am, I did not throw it in the garbage bin, instead I threw it at the combine 
 soldier. He quickly rushed up to me and started hitting my with his batten. After a few hits he 
 returned to what he was doing. So, in the future do not throw anything at them. This kind of interaction 
 really sucks you into the game world, and shows you what the source engine can do. 
  
  As I walked through City 17, I couldnt help but just stare at the amount of detail put into this 
 game to create a living breathing gaming world. From citizens sitting on benches, to Combine guards 
 patrolling the streets.
  
  The sound in this game is also something to behold From radio chatter on Combine guards to normal 
 environmental sound effect, everything just adds to the realism. Further on in the game youll 
 once again face headcrabs. Everything is still the same with those very annoying creatures, (well, 
 except they look better/uglier now) everything about them reminds me of the good old days at Black 
 Mesa. The weapon sounds are also something that shines from the game, and they do sound like that 
 they should. In Doom 3 the weapons did sound like they were underpowered, but luckily its not 
 the case in Half Life 2. Story wise, Half Life 2 is just like the original, with you having no 
 idea of what is exactly happening around you, and how it all started. All you know is that the 
 Earth is being taken under control by the Combine.
  
  As you progress through the single player campaign, a very big conspiracy starts to unveil itself. 
 Playing this game open eared and minded is a must. Its vital to gather all in the information, 
 otherwise you will really get lost early on in the game. Valve really worked on their character 
 animations, and how they interact with you and with each other. It is actually really freaky looking 
 at these realistic characters talking to you. The facial animations are just so unbelievable, and 
 really gives you the feeling as if you are watching a movie, where you are the one of the lead 
 characters. It really is something every gamer should experience. 
  
  Half Life 2 is probably the greatest game that I have ever played. Yes, you might have read that 
 the ending is somewhat of a cliffhanger, so what? Valve did say that they are going to work on 
 Half Life 3 (not officially, but we are hoping.) Everything about this game is great, graphics, 
 physics, sound, characters, story and everything else present in this game. It really is a must 
 have for all gamers, and especially fans of the original Half Life. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Photos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2004 2:37 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 is an awesome game. Don't read reviews on it, go buy it. Gordon Freeman is back, kicking 
 ass and taking names. The story is slow at the beginning, but it really picks up towards the end. 
 
  
  Pros:
   Graphics are top notch, most photo realistic shooter to date
   Game play is awesome
   Guns are very nice
   Story is good
   Throwing Chinese food at 
 fellow humans and beer bottles at combine guards.
  
  Cons:
   Motion blur, causes some motion sickness according to some gamers
   Story is slow 
   STEAM. 
 Valve was not prepared for the onslaught of gamers... long downloads failed connections.
   "Loading..." every time you enter a new level, its loads for 5-10 seconds (or more depending 
 on your computer) . This really kills the rush and momentum built in the game... I was running from 
 the combine and bam! "Loading..." 
  
  Overall, this game is worth the wait. Playing with the physics engine is blast by itself... enjoy 
 throwing bottles and Chinese food at the citizens! Enjoy this awesome game!
  
  Go get this game now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radone232
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2004 2:24 am PT
Review:  [I am skipping over all the problems I had with steam and getting the game to run. In summary it 
 takes forever to install and is a pain in the butt]
  
  This review is for people who have played the game. I am assuming you know what I am talking about 
 so I don't have to expain my opinions.
  
  I started playing the game on the 17th and played most of all day for two days until I beat it. 
 So in terms of getting me invovled it was a success. There are so many awesome parts to the game. 
 I won't name them but when the _______ does _________ and you have to fight the ______ on the _________ 
 is freaking rad. I could go on with a ton of those. You have all seen the Striders in the trailers, 
 just wait till you get to fight those things along side the resistance. Taking one down is very 
 satisfying.
  
  The gameplay is just like Half-Life 1 with the exception of the physics stuff. But the game is 
 similar with the look and feel of the environments. You will still be walking along red pipes and 
 crawling through vents.
  
  However the story was sort of week, the game was shorter than I would have liked, the gameplay 
 was VERY linear.
  
  See how I rated the stuff below. I gave the value a 8 because when you buy the game then you get 
 to play all the online multiplayer mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k0n1g999
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2004 11:47 pm PT
Review:  WHY DOES GAMESPOT SAY SUCH BLASFEMY?????
  
  The sounds are incredible, most likely the best i've seen in first person shooters yet. They are 
 all accurate. The only problem might be that the sounds may come after a second or two, but that 
 is most likely because your computer is too slow.
  
  The Gameplay is what makes this game so good. The puzzles add a twist to the average run and gun 
 shooter, such as Halo 2, (which has sound, graphical, and gameplay errors) and the shooting parts 
 of the game are as good or better than halo 2 (most likeley better because its not the same thing 
 over and over again)
  
  The Graphics are incredible. Enough said.
  
  Value, this game has probably about 40-60 hours of great gameplay, 70-90 hours if you explore alot, 
 and 30 hours if you try and beat it as fast as you can. Lets not forget about the Multiplayer Counter-Strike 
 Source, which adds infinate hours to your pocket for only $50 AND for an extra $5 you get Half-life: 
 Source (which is kind of a dissappointment, but still worth to look at for a few seconds) AND Day 
 of Defeat: Source (which was second only to counter-strike last year)
  
  Tilt, this game is awsome enough said.
  
  My conclusion? Gamespot was payed by microsoft to 
 review halo 2 better than half-life 2. Why? because this game CLEARLY illistrates what gaming is 
 all about. Its all about fusion of alot of things to make up a great game. Yes, Halo 2 was a great 
 game, but still HL2 can beat it any day in the week.
  
  -k0n1g999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbygr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2004 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game does live up to the hype. The gameplay is awsome - feels like being in a movie - except 
 you are actually IN the movie.
  
  The graphics are wonderful. It's so nice to play a game made for the PC - and not a crappy XBOX 
 port.
  
  The scripted events are so cool - for example - when you are being "teleported" to Vance's father 
 - the effects are breathtaking.
  
  To date, this is my very favorite game. I only wish more game developers would stand up and take 
 notice of this game - I'm so tired of "me too" games.
  
  Well worth the wait. 
  
  Good job, Valve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toonice
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2004 8:27 pm PT
Review:  When a game is done right, it is easily recognizable. Now let me preface this with the statement 
 that I had the trouble with the authentication server not letting me create a steam account and 
 the 4-5 hrs that Ive been playing have been plagued with the stuttering sound lockup issue, but 
 through all that I have realized how great this game is, if only for the fact that I am still playing 
 it and pretty much not caring if it stutters or locks up. Watching and playing this game is just 
 fun. I can without a doubt say that this is the best game I have ever played on any system. 
  
  The Game play is tight, from the first tossed soda can to the wooden pallets used to block 
 combine soldiers from getting up a set of stairs. 
  
  The Graphics are awesome and fit perfectly with the setting, having been beautifully integrated 
 with the feel, story.
  
  Sound, for me this is one of the most important aspects of a game, and with this I was very happy. 
 The Weapons sound powerful the enemies and ambience all respond as my ears would like.
  
  Value: Well since I am only about an Hour into the game and I've played it for about 4 hrs I am 
 going to have to say Massive Value.
  
  And I just love this game and so goes my TILT.
  
  To sum up, purchase this game, then turn around and purchase a copy for a loved one, The will 
 appreciate your caring when the whack their first naughty Head Crab. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2004 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-wise, the game is the best I have ever seen, and the gameplay itself is very fun - the 
 main problems with HL2 are its length and difficulty. The original Half-Life is at least twice 
 as long as HL2 - I completed HL2 in 2 days and this is not what you expect coming from a game which 
 has been in production for so long and is rather expensive. A partial cause of this being the difficulty. 
 Too much of the earlier half of the game consists of cross-country rather than action - you encounter 
 the odd combine soldier here and there, but this half is not the slightest bit challenging. They 
 could at least have put a few 'puzzles' in the first half - this was another feature absent in 
 HL2. 
  Personally, I think most FPS games should adopt the SOF2 system, where you have limited saves per 
 level - being able to quicksave as well as having countless autosaves makes this game too easy 
 to progress through.
  There was also a lack of variety in the enemies you face - there are only 2 types of soldier and 
 the usual bunch of mutated things (plus a few extras) . I think the creatures are not widespread 
 enough in the game - most of the time you are just shooting soldiers.
  One other area which could have been improved is the storyline - only in perhaps the last quarter 
 of the game do you start to understand whats going on!
  
  Overall a good attempt, but next time Valve, focus on the pro-gamers too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satch919
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 18, 2004 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Haven't beaten it yet but I think I have a few more chapters left. So far, I love 
 it. The physics, the environments, the enemies. Its all so immersive and believable. There are 
 some intense firefights and some unique ways of dispatching your foes. My favorite weapon is the 
 Combine Overwatch Rifle with the Shotgun coming in at a close second. I can't say enough good things 
 about this game. It gets my vote for Game Of The Year. =)
  
  I want some HL2 Mulitplayer though. I wish they had like a Combine vs. The Resistance style MP. 
 I think that'd be awesome. A Nova Prospekt map for MP would be absolutely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urbsdad6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2004 5:50 pm PT
Review:  First the bad stuff. STEAM sucked. I paid my money up front, had all the predownloads, yet when 
 I finally got the product it refused to log me on insisting I was not who I am. Go fi gure. When 
 I finally got to play the game it served up ferocious load times and audio and video hiccups (still 
 does) These are all fixable and I believe Valve will get it together. The game itself is beyond 
 my wildest expectations though. Totally immersive. Environments that look so much kie you're their 
 that you are (at least in my head it's like that) . It's like reading the Hobbit or Jules Vern and 
 you become so involved you can't put the book down. "Helen! Get me the crowbar. I'm going in. See 
 you in the ashes!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumboy256
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2004 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Well chances are, you've probably heard of a little game by the name of Half-Life.... way back 
 in 1998 a company called Valve decided to explode onto the scene and cause social chaos between 
 boyfriend/girlfriends and wives and husbands alike. Half-Life was born. Out of that a movement 
 never felt so big by the gaming industry since the days of doom, developers, mod makers, skin modelers, 
 map creators and such came together on such a grand scale that made Half-Life one of the most diverse 
 games of the 20th Century.
  
  Fast forward to the 21st Century, a game 6 years in the making..... Valve delivers one of the most 
 brillant games of our lifetime. Half-Life 2... simply amazing.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  Obviously we're dropped into the gameplay with the same ideals and principles that we experienced 
 in the first trip to Black Mesa. However, now thanks to the new graphics engine and physics engine, 
 you are truly able to enjoy Gordon freeman as he would interact with the enviroment around him. 
 You have your standard walking functions and such, but now, you can pick up objects strew about 
 the areas and throw them, stack them or break them. Honestly, this is a feature now that has raised 
 the bar for future FPS titles of which if the enviroments are static and you can't change them, 
 manipulate them or destory them, there is a disconnect there. Half-Life 2 brings the experience 
 of you affect the enviroment is truing one of the paramounts of gaming moments.
  
  The first moment you start the game, you're introduced to a familar face, the G-man. "Rise and 
 shine Gordon.... Rise and shine...." Erie words that cause you to pay attention. The gameplay does 
 lend itself to old habits as far as run-n-gun, duck, reload, shoot, solve puzzles etc, however 
 this time around, the style in which it's done is far more effective and realistic. Puzzle's will 
 test your patience (some of them at least) , some enemies will evade you to the point of where you'll 
 just bum rush the combine soldiers and crowbar them to death. That being said, the AI in the game 
 is awesome. Be it robots that fly around that try to kill you by slicing you up, to the Combine 
 soldiers that will tag team you and try to flank you. Also worth note, the AI concerning teammates 
 that help you out later in the game are quite impressive and actually do more good than harm and 
 add a sense of "unity" between you and the friends you're helping. Only small gripes would be that 
 the mechanics are similar to HL, however, they're so many refinements that it definately makes 
 HL2 a great sequel.
  
  Graphics:
  Honestly, no other game out there looks like this one does. Doom 3.... yeah, you had your day, 
 Half-Life 2 is the newest benchmark for graphics. I'm not just talking realistic player models, 
 I"m talking size/porportional ratio of cities, buildings, hallways and everything just feels..... 
 well REAL! There is nothing that I could find within the game that wasn't breathtaking, awesome 
 or just made my jaw drop. From taking you from City 17 to the Coast lands all the way to the Citadel, 
 there's so many varieties of enviroments that the game keeps moving the story, the story is moving 
 along with the graphics, the gameplay is fusing those altogether that make this game look and feel 
 awesome. 
  
  The specs of my machine are:
  Abit IC7-MAX III
  P4 3.2E
  1GB Corsair XMS DDR400
  eVGA 6800 GT 
  Western Digital 74GB 10,000 RPM Raptor
  Windows SP2
 
  
  Granted it's a nice machine and the frame rate never drops below 75FPS (constant) and I have yet 
 to do some other testing or benchmarks, but needless to say, even if you have a P4 2.0GHz machine 
 with 512MB and a 9800 Pro, the game will still look awesome. I think that's one of HL2 main selling 
 points, is that it looks good on pretty much any scale of system.... just better on some. That 
 being said, everything HL2 looks and feels like it's authentic to the enviroment. I haven't come 
 across anything that looks "phoney" or out of place. Valve's modelers did a wonderful job.
  
  Sound:
  Well, the music, the sound and everything else sounds awesome on a surround sound 
 system. I've got a Sound Blaster Augigy (Gen 1) and I have a 5.1 Klipsch surround sound system 
 and HL2 sounds awesome. The music that creates the erie mood, or the fast beat techno tracks that 
 cause you to rock and roll on the gun while you're killing people really add to the game without 
 taking anything away. I've heard other reviewers say that they didn't like the old school sounds 
 of like the health packs and HEV suit however, I believe Valve did that to pay homage to Half-Life 
 and the legacy it left. Make no mistake that I'm sure new sounds from the mod community will come 
 out and possibly make the experience even better. 
  
  Closing:
  So without giving the story away too much I wanted to touch on the finer points that Half-Life 
 2 gives to us.... the gamers.... the people that matter most. Half-Life 2 is so much more than 
 just a standard FPS..... it's truly an experience to part take in, one that I think no one should 
 pass up. Valve has spent so much time, blood, sweat, tears and hours building this game that would 
 offer us the gamer, a truly unique experience, continuing the tradition and story of Half-LIfe. 
 Why may you ask do I give this game a Perfect 10. Simply because Half-Life 2 is going to live on 
 past the original story, much like Half-LIfe did. New mods will come out, Counter-Strike 2 is looming 
 on the horizon, total conversion mods for the single player campaign will come out, and the community 
 will be so strong, that Half-Life 2 will be played for many years to come. There isn't any game 
 that I see out there, present or future that is ambitious enough to challenge Half-Life 2; sans 
 Half-Life 3.
  
  So, you get Gordon Freeman, old friends from Black Mesa (ones you like and dislike) , a sinister 
 plot that you find yourself dropped into the middle of..... "Right man in the wrong place....." 
 
  
  Half-Life 2 is a game that shouldn't be missed, it offers so much for the single player experience 
 and the multiplayer experience (w/ Counter-Strike and also the mods to come) . If you love gaming 
 at all, you'll pick up Half-Life 2, it's not to be missed.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raxzor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2004 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok I wanted to complete the game before I reviewed it and I must say I am glad I did. Halflife 
 2 is one of those games that has to be played. I won't say to much about plot and in game action, 
 but the game is loaded with both. The game to me has a very haunting apocalyptic feel, it almost 
 feel like you are playing a game version of Day of the Triffids, The Tripods or Dawn of the Dead. 
 
  
  The graphics are very good but in all fairness don't leave you jaw hitting the floor as Farcry 
 and Doom 3 are just as good, if HL2 was released in September 03 then it would have been a different 
 story. 
  
  The Gameplay is amazing this game has driving, puzzles, shooting, squad based combat the list is 
 endless. But there are a few gimmicky parts that Valve have put in almost showing off the physics 
 of the game that was not needed.
  
  The sound is noting short of breathtaking, the voice acting is spot on the sounds are colourful 
 and the music is haunting.
  
  The value aspect to me is the best. This game can be replied many times as the physics of the game 
 makes it slightly different when you play. Plus if you got it from Steam you have the whole Valve 
 back catalogue with it. And soon there will be lots of mods for it making the game even more value.
 
  
  In short one of the best games ever!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannygrafton
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2004 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game i still have not finished it but its one of my best games and alot of fun 
 to play this game should win first person action game of the year only thing i dont like about 
 it is no online play but you get counter strike source with it so you do get some online action 
 so far on all the levels i've played they have all been really fun and realistic as it can get 
 for now days i think it would of got a higher rateing on gamespot than a 9.2 if it had a multi 
 player mode then they would of rated it 9.9 almost perfect well thats my review only one mans though 
 but if you dont got it you need to try it out i think you will love it thank you have a nice day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 18, 2004 11:59 am PT
Review:  If you asked people what their favourite shooter of all time is you'll probably get a whole lot 
 of different answers and a whole lot of people saying it's Half-Life, although if you read a certain 
 magazines Reader's Top 100 you'll find Call Of Duty tops the list. For me personally, my favourite 
 FPS is NOLF2 (gee that was a while ago) . It has nice graphics, humour and memorable set pieces.
 
  
  Half-Life 2 has nice graphics, a wee bit of humour involving a scientist and his pet headcrab and 
 a few memorable moments. If I had to describe Half-Life 2 in the least amount of words possible 
 I'd probably say that there is a boat ride, a buggy ride, some ant-lions and a gravity gun. Upon 
 completion of the game I felt no sense of accomplishment, I didn't find it memorable and unlike 
 the original Half-Life no reason to re-visit the game to play through again.
  
  I'd like to begin by stating that even though I have a Directx9 card in my machine, Half-Life 2 
 thoughtfully chose to run using Directx8, thereforce my comments reguarding the graphics may not 
 apply to Directx9 mode.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. The game uses a nice pastel color palette, and I really love the 
 artistic style present in the game. In a lot of ways it reminds me of NOLF 2, and it makes me wonder 
 if the artists were hired to work on this game. Character facial expressions which looked awesome 
 in 2003, look like nothing I haven't already seen in Doom 3. The character models are very well 
 rounded, and at times erriely realistic but by no means are they photoreal. I was particularly 
 impressed by the opening sequence featuring the face of the G-Man, the clarity was far greater 
 than what I had seen of the sequence in a Bink video.
  
  Now for the bad, and some annoyances. Firstly the world looks really static. For example, aside 
 from the Ravenholm level clouds in the sky don't move. The tree branches or leaves don't sway in 
 the breeze, nor does the lengthy folliage on grassy ground. Shiny or reflective surfaces are over-used 
 in the beginning portion of the game, a case of technology getting in the way of artistic expression 
 I feel. The nicest looking graphical effect in the game would be the water. It's reflective, it's 
 distorts the view of the outside world when viewed from underwater, and it looks like it's wavy. 
 Unfortunately, again, it is actually very static and is actually just a flat surface which doesn't 
 even get disturbed when you driving a hoverboat around on it. The reason I bring that up is because 
 Unreal Tournament 2003's physic system actually makes an attempt to simulate disturbed water.
 
  
  Speaking of the physics, I've seen it all before in Deus Ex Invisible War. The one thing Half-Life 
 2 has in it's favour is the way in physics is used for some monkey-iq level puzzles and it's now 
 infamous gravity gun. The actual implemention of the gravity gun sort made me think "what's the 
 point?". Reason being that you can pick up a lot of objects without the gravity gun by just using 
 them (E key) . Objects that are picked up can then be thrown. The gun itself can be inconsistent. 
 For example you can knock a car over, but you cannot pick it up. I hardly used the gun in the game. 
 There are some places where you HAVE to use it, like pulling out plugs to destroy forcefields. 
 The weapon I found myself using the most though was the shotgun. Funnily enough one of the criticisms 
 of Doom 3 was the Shotgun being the only weapon you need.
  
  Technology aside the thing that matters the most would be gameplay, and in modern day shooters 
 you seem to need a good story to go along with it. I'll touch on the story briefly by saying it's 
 the least interesting part of the game. The ending of the game is awful and I'd putting it my top 
 10 least satisfying endings of all time. I'm not going to say what happens at the end, but imagine 
 if the power went out while you were watching a murder mystery film JUST as they were about to 
 reveal the killer. Yep, in this game the 3D image pauses at a very dramatic moment and you don't 
 find out what happens next, just when it got to a good part. What is truly bizarre is every speaking 
 npc seems to know who you are, some of them treat you as though you are a god and a lot of the 
 time you are expected to know who they are. Something I found even odder is that some NPC's from 
 the first game are at City 17 and you have know idea why you are there let alone what the hell 
 they are there for. The oddest thing of all though would have to be the one eyed alien from Half-Life 
 is in the game as an ally, but speaks English with an awful voice and some horrific voice acting.
 
  
  Gameplay wise I think I can safely say that if you have never played Half-Life 1 you could quite 
 easily skip this game and not be missing anything. It's pretty regulation stuff except for the 
 physic related puzzles. The boat ride is fun, but goes on for far too long and the same can be 
 said for the buggy ride. There is surprisingly little action in this game, and there is a total 
 lack of any sense of danger at all times. This is in total contrast to the original Half-Life. 
 While they have concentrated on giving you a variety of action the game comes off a bit feeling 
 like the Jack of all trades and the master of nothing. Putting it another way the game does everything 
 well enough. In the case of the buggy as an example, you go on a long ride over all sorts of terrains 
 yet the handling of the buggy itself is merely adequate. I don't expect it to handle like a simulator 
 car, but given the physics present in the game I don't expect it to feel cheap either. Doom 3 was 
 criticised for it's lack of variety, yet what it did (close quarter combat) it did very very well, 
 if not perfect. The close quarter combat in Half-Life 2 is not up to the standard set by Doom 3, 
 yet on the other hand Half-Life 2 as greater outdoor combat. I probably should mention that the 
 beginning of the game is extremely boring, and it's not until you hop onto the hoverboat that the 
 game really picks up. 
  
  At the end of the day if you go into the experience without looking for negativity's you'll have 
 a great time, although you will feel let down by the story and the ending in particular. It took 
 me 2 extended play sessions to finish the game, so you are looking at the very least 12 hours of 
 gameplay. While not being a groundbreaking game that the first game was, it does succeed where 
 we wanted it to. That is, Half-Life 2 is a great enjoyable game even with it's disposable story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSxParasite
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2004 10:00 am PT
Review:  Still haven't even finished GTA: San Andreas and this game pops out. I was waiting for it to come 
 out last year and it has finally surfaced! But damn the wait was sure worth it, this game is a 
 blast from start to finish. The enviroment is so lush, the character models are very lifelike and 
 the physics in this game are the best I've ever seen used. Controls are very tight and can be custimized 
 to the users will, graphics are not doom 3 shadows, but source enviroments and atmosphere, you 
 will get immersed! Although the AI is sort of predictable and straightforward, the enemies that 
 come and attack you are worth the trouble for as you blast one with your shotgun you can enjoy 
 the physic effects and rejoyce. Great sound quality in this game too, the ambiet sounds in this 
 game are numerous and well done, from sound echos to gunfire, the sound effets are superb. The 
 addition of vehichles to half life 2 probe to be a great joy ride, nothing new in terms of vehicle 
 control and innovation but like I said before, fun to drive. (make drive your vehicles fast...) 
 
  Yes this game was really worth the wait, and any FPS fan should pick up a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UglyBob
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 18, 2004 4:25 am PT
Review:  No game sucks you in quite like this one. It will have you saying "just 5 more minutes" to yourself 
 over and over into the wee hours of the night. I can't believe Gamespot didn't give it a better 
 score. Everything in it is so well balanced. The enemies are challenging, but not in a stupid lets 
 make them deal tons of damage per hit kind of deal. The AI is very intelligent and unique.
  
  Only issue with the game: can get choppy when initially loading sounds. They'll fix this soon 
 I hope.
  
  Theres really not much more to say here. The graphics, gameplay, sound, and music are all amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceManCanada
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2004 3:09 am PT
Review:  This is the first time I have ever been motivated to write a review for a game. Half Life 2 is 
 a great game but it does have one shortcoming-I can sum it up in one word-Steam. I understand Valve's 
 motivation for trying to protect their intellectual property by using security features, but it 
 severely hindered me and thousands of others of paying customers from playing the game as the registration 
 process took hours. Another great feature of using Steam is that it has to log on to a server somewhere 
 before you can play the game which is absurd. I don't enjoy seeing an error message that says "Half 
 Life 2 is temporarily unavailable" when I just dropped seventy bucks down for a game I just bought 
 in a retail store. The fact that a game without any native multiplayer support requires an Internet 
 connection is silly (the package does include Counter Strike: Source but it is not actually part 
 of Half Life 2) . There should be an option once the game is registered to get rid of that requirement 
 to play because when Valve's server goes down so does your ability to play the game.
  Now that I'm done complaining about Steam, on to the game itself. The game play is solid and it 
 plays like many other first person shooters of this calibre. The much-anticipated integrated physics 
 plays a small part in the game itself but it does add an interesting element to the game play as 
 it is very satisfying to send a saw blade or explosive barrel flying towards enemies. The vehicle 
 controls feel a bit too sloppy and there is an inordinate amount of time spent in them as often 
 you will forget why you are travelling from point a to b. The Source engine presents the world 
 in great detail and is the new standard for graphics and in my opinion is better than Doom 3 by 
 far.
  The story is passable FPS fare and definitely leaves it wide open for a sequel as the game leaves 
 the player with many questions and few answers. I would have liked to see a little more time spent 
 tying up loose ends from the first Half Life but unfortunately Valve decided to leave many questions 
 unanswered.
  Overall Half Life 2 is a solid game and offers some very good eye candy as well as great game play 
 and I would recommend it, but only to the very patient.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2004 2:45 am PT
Review:  What struck me first and foremost about this game, was when I fired it up for the first time (after 
 going through a completely annoying process of unlocking the game through steam) , was that when 
 I went to the video settings to check it out, I thought, this can't be right. Almost everything 
 on my 2 year old system was set to the highest setting. Then when I got into the game, I was even 
 more surprised that I was playing at a smooth framerate, even when action heats up. Valve has done 
 an excellent job all around. Bravo.
  
  The environments are completely immersive, brilliant, and beautiful. The gameplay is awsome as 
 well. It doesn't do anything overly amazing in terms of enemy AI, etc, but fooling around with 
 the physics, and the level at which it brings you into the world boosts the gameplay in my books. 
 The graphics combined with the interaction and gameplay within the world make Halflife 2 unique 
 unto itself.
  
  While the sound is good in the game, I don't particularly care much for the score. Also, the value 
 would've been a bit more if it came with a multiplayer version other than Counterstrike. All and 
 all, this doesn't bother me much as I don't often play MP/SP hybrid games, I prefer a game built 
 for either or, but I admit, it would be nice to play some multiplayer modes in City 17. Hopefully 
 something will come along soon... and for free!
  
  Final conclusion, If you like FPS, this game is absolutely imperative to your collection. It is 
 one of, if not the best singleplayer FPS I've experienced to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2004 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I remember the hype about their predecessor: Half-Life. It was a good game for the time being and 
 slowly died out when people began to be impatient about waiting for the sequel in the first place. 
 Let me tell you this, this is worth the wait. Actually, after I played Halo on PC, i hated PC games 
 because Halo was not good at all on the PC format. But now that Half-Life 2 came out, I'm in love 
 with it again. The sound is crisp and wonderfully made and the graphics are just as good. This 
 is a big improvement from the first one when it used texture-pixeled polygons and this is much 
 better than anything I have ever played on PC. Doom 3 was all flash, but nothing was achieved. 
 Halo was horrible in its gameplay and graphics were mediocre, but this is one hell of a game. But 
 I have to say that they could have worked a little bit more on the environments, yes it's more 
 spacey than the last one, but more detail still couldv'e been pushed and the graphics could use 
 a bit tuning. But words fail me sometimes. Half-Life 2 is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXLINK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2004 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Let's just say all computer geeks and gamers rejoice. One of the most technological enchanced game 
 with great story has just come out. But did it live up to the hype after a 1 year delay?
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is great in this game. There is nothing absolutely creative. The gameplay 
 involves what most FPS are, shooting. Then there is the puzzle factor that you utilize with finding 
 a switch or using physics. Half-Life 2 sports the Source Engine which is one of the best, if not 
 the best, engine currently out.
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning. Some outdoor visuals look almost life-like. The world is full of lucious graphics. The 
 reflections, water, shaders and lighting is just amazing. Not to mention the normal mapping which 
 makes textures look amazing. And the facial expressions is also amazing for the characters, almost 
 like they were real. The graphics is one of the biggest parts of the game.
  
  Sound:
  The guns sound amazing and any other enviromental sound effects are just great. Not to mention 
 the voice acting. It seems Valve used professional actors to speak for their characters. The music 
 is also great for the type of game it is.
  
  Value:
  The game has its highs and lows through the campaign. Thats why Valve lets you play certain parts 
 of the game which you find the best. Some levels you'll beat and never look back to them, but some 
 you will just want to play over and over agian. Sometimes to just drool over the graphics or fool 
 around with the physics. Or of course, how fun all of it is!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  After 6 years in production, was it worth the wait and $50+? Yes. The game is near one of the best 
 I ever played, was it revolutionary? No. But it is a great game.
  
  Version Tested: Half-Life 2 Silver (STEAM) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2004 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Well lets begin with Half-life the original game. Frankly I hate it I do find it really boring. 
 Yes, I no it has over 50 game of the year rewards but that does not matter to me I hate it. But 
 I respect it and the fact that it is a great game that revolutionized the industry. So why you 
 a person who hated the original buy the sequal. I wanted CS: scourse and Day of Defeat: scourse. 
 So i got the silver pack.
  
  Now lets get to Half-life 2 yippe its here (right) . So the first thing you might notice about HL2 
 is the it looks freakin awsome. The visuals are amazing and damn does those characters look good. 
 The setting of the game puts you into a 1984 like atmosfer. Or for you Liturary reatarded people 
 you find your self in a nightmarish future where your life is controled and you are monitored ever 
 wakeing second of your life. So you start off in city 17 and of course you play Gordin Freedman 
 the protagonist of last game. Apparently in the last game you were hired by the misterious "Gman" 
 and I don't know what he said because i did not finish the game. But for some strang reason you 
 end up in the future were Earth surenderd to aliens and is now being controled by them. 
  
  So guess what you now get to kill them, all of them to free humanity. So thus ends my uninformitive 
 review. HAPPY HUNTING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kastigador
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2004 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Burnout 3, Rome Total War, Halo 2, Doom 3, The Sims 2, GTA: San Andreas, and Fable are just some 
 of the most amazing new releases I've bought and played for significant amounts of time in the 
 past few months. Perhaps I'm just nostalgic at the ripe old age of 24, but I can't recall a time 
 where so many quality, head turning titles were popping out with such unrelenting speed. Perhaps 
 next year will raise the bar, but 2004 is definitely shaping up to be the year of the video game. 
 There are so many 9 and high 8 flying around on Gamespot lately, you're probably starting to wonder 
 if the likes of a 9.2 means a game has less desirable qualities.
  
  Despite having yet to even see the likes of KOTOR 2 and Lord of the Rings: Battle For Middle Earth, 
 the game of the year front runner, Half Life 2, has finally been released after so many delays. 
 After playing this game for about 10 hours, I now see why. Why this game took so long to complete, 
 and why this game is most definitely worthy of game of the year honors.
  
  A game of this magnitude does not deserve rehashing reviews, so I'll be brief on my run down for 
 scaled ratings and hammer home the real reason this title is such a huge success.
  
  Graphics: Second to none. The Half Life 2 source engine makes amazing use of the all the latest 
 bells and whistles on a next generation graphics card, and does so without nearly the same amound 
 of overhead as Doom 3. Very impressive indeed. Furthermore, this is Half Life 2's crowning jewels, 
 as the graphics go very far to paint such a realistic environment. Everything from blowing and 
 shattering debris, facial reactions, to bullets wizzing by, richocheting off objects around you, 
 is all rendered with incredible realism.
  
  Sound: A very nice and almost seemless part of the game. Sounds are done very well clearly using 
 the latest EAX emvironmental effects. Obstructional interference is probably the most remarkable 
 effect hear. The sound track is certainly well done, as it will rise and fall during climatic moment 
 with a score that sounds both unique and appropriate.
  
  Gameplay: The most amazing implementation of physics in a game to date. Being able to pick things 
 up, throw them, and stack them is one thing. However, you'll also realize right away that a stack 
 of wooden skids is not nearly solid enough to provide cover from a Helicopter machine gun barrage 
 thanks to HL2's realistically destructible objects. Sure, not everything is can be blown to shreds, 
 but it's enough that anything of any strategic importance will break and behave as should. Also, 
 the enemy AI is on par with the best out there. Sure, there's always room for improvement, but 
 HL2's enemies are challenging, varied, and as realistic as they come. 
  
  Value: Not only are you buying HL2, you're also getting Counter Strike Source. An amazing, refined, 
 multiplayer game in its own rights. Time spent playing the single player portion also justifies 
 the price tag. As mentioned earlier, the game is technically amazing.
  
  Tilt: Here's where everything comes together and what makes HL2 so amazing. While many games do 
 many certain things well (i. e. Doom 3) , it is that rare few that achieve a higher standard of exellence 
 by making all these fine implementations cohesive in a manner that makes gameplay a seemless, visceral 
 experience. There are many moment in Half Life 2 where you will find yourself standing still, settling 
 your adrenaline and collecting your thoughts after such an experience. "Did that just happen? Yes 
 it did. Wow. That was insane." Too busy to gah and goo at the cinematics, sound effects, and graphics, 
 you were frantically trying to get to a point of safety. Unlike Doom 3, which relies heavily on 
 certain effect to hammer home the experience, Half Life 2's experience is much more well rounded 
 and believable. Perhaps my only small gripe with HL2 is the story which is somewhat confusing and 
 not paced very well. This is a minor annoyance at best. If I could rate on a more precise scale, 
 this game would be a 9.9 
  
  Case and point: If you're going to buy a PC game this year, buy this one. Get it through Valve's 
 Steam because publishers are greedy and often rob the developer of their profits, much the same 
 way music labels work.
  
  One final thought: So why did GS give it a 9.2? I think there should be a suprise factor involved 
 here. Lately, I think GS in particular, has had to much exposure to the games it so dutifully tracks 
 and reports on. I mean, if you're a fanatic, you've know what to expect from HL2 for a long time 
 now graphics wise. It seems GS just doesn't account that they already have a sort of built up numbness 
 to the kind of experience HL2 is delivering. A game like Burnout 3 comes along, and wham, they 
 hit the rafters. Surprise is everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2004 8:15 pm PT
Review:  What else could you say about a game that changes the way other games are made. HL2 is a mile stone 
 in the gaming market. This game has it all from great graphics to excellent story line. HL2 is 
 not a game you want to rush through. Take your time while playing to experience all that it has 
 to offer. There are so many exciting things in the game that will just blow you away. 
  
  I have had no problem with the game as far as bugs go. Steam seems to be working fine for me as 
 well. I know there have been some reports about bugs. I have always hated it when raters rate a 
 game because they cannot get it to work on their system. They never blame their equipment it is 
 always the games fault. I for one have had little to no problems with any games I have purchased 
 over the past 25 year or so.
  
  HL2 gets a perfect 10 because it is the only game that has gotten it right on all sides of the 
 gaming cube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattman734
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2004 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say i havent beat the game yet but im about 3/4 or so of the way done.
  
  Well its has been a very long 6 year wait since hl one came out and HL2 we have been looking for, 
 for many years and its finaly here but did the test of time work with it?
  
  First i will talk about the gameplay, in short its very fun to play u can kinda think of it like 
 farcry where the levels are set up for u and u have an understanding what to do but u can get there 
 anyway u want. The probably biggest add on is the use of physics and not just the use of um just 
 how they are incorprated into the levels. Almost everything u possibly think might have realtime 
 physics dose from every bottle to chiar to every broken down car on the side of the road. Not only 
 is this cool but u are pretty much thrown into useing them in gameplay fromt the start where u 
 can only pick up small things to where u get the gravity gun (a gun that can pick up almost anything 
 and fire it very far) and u are introduced to this gun by a very cool robot dog thing that u play 
 fecth with (its much cooler than it sounds because the dog is like 8 feet tall) . there will be 
 many puzzles involveing the use of thease physics probably the first game to do it this much also 
 there will be a few jumping puzzles. One bad thing i might say about the gameplay is it will take 
 u much longer to do almost anything then u would think it would by looking at what u need to do. 
 Like in one part of a level (one part i said really there is like 30 parts to a level) u need to 
 unplug a cable to unraise the shileld blocking your way but to unplug it u need to cross the bottom 
 of a very long bridge and fight many a monsters then cross back the brige and will probably take 
 u 30min just to cross a shiled. While stuff like this keeps the game long it kinda slows down the 
 action.
  Anoteher new thing is being able to drive cars and stuff, most of the stuff u will drive is kinda 
 a hunk of junck (like a dune buggy a kinda rusty big go kart) it is still fun to drive. And yet 
 again what u think will be a simple drive form here to there will in the end take u well over two 
 hours to get to there (because u have to fight drop ships stop in buildings to get stuff and do 
 stuff like that bridge crossing thing i said before) .
  But the most important part of a fps is hows the shooting part is like and i asure u its the best 
 part of the game. one cool thing in fighting is almost everything in the wrold (really almost everything 
 u see besides buildings and stuff) can break and it can break into many pices even the people u 
 fight and all those pecies use a physics system (i can drive enough how much the phisics are in 
 the game) so that means after a big battle if u look around probably most everything will be dystroyed 
 and it will look like a junck yard afterwords (much like it would in real life) . and your guns 
 all seam very powerful and strong but all that said u feel kinda overpowerd in lots of ways like 
 your person can kill waves and waves of people with out too much troulble. But then again u will 
 lots of the time feel underpowerd not because u cant kill something because in the end u probably 
 will, but the odds they put u up at are overwhelming at first like haveing to dystroy a huge drop 
 ship many of times (u get to use a very cool homeing rocket luancher to do this) u will see that 
 this ship is like bigger than a tank its almost as big as a commercial airplane. But when u do 
 dystroy one of those u fell very good because of how hard it falls. One little problem is sometimes 
 the AI in the game is very real and somethims it feals like u are always outsmarting them but over 
 all the AI is very good.
  (whoo that was a lot of typing lets move on)
  
  Graphics
  the game looks great it looks very good (some even better than doom3) not only looks great but 
 u can make it look great even on a lower end system. if u got a direct x 9.0 card u will be wonderd 
 on how good the game looks. there is cool water reflestions lighting shadows everything u see in 
 games nowa days. u will see great stuff like realtime reflections on glass even glass bottles. 
 One bad thing is it dosent have much bump maping but do not let that stop u because they find very 
 good ways to make up for that they trick your mind soo much into thinking something is real u might 
 think some of the that some of the stuff is real in there. Also a great thing is what they did 
 with the real time lighting every thing sparkles and shines exactly the way it should and u get 
 some very look looking stuff because of it. Oh yeh i can forget probably the most impressive thing 
 is the character modules that look not only great but animate so life like u will wonder how they 
 did it. There is everything from face expressions to the way differnt people walk. and even real 
 life and non real life things feal like u could really get to know thease people like the way that 
 one girl interacts with her 8 foot tall robot dog she pets it and calls it and says stuff like 
 "go get your ball" and he digs through and finds his ball and wants to paly with u its a very cool 
 sean. over all its one of the best looking games out there.
  
  Sound
  the game sounds great also every gun and thing sounds just the way it probably would in real life 
 and the music kicks in right when u want it to or dont want it to (by that i mean weird sounding 
 mucsic in dark place to make u feal uncomftorble) . The only reason i gave it a 9 was because i 
 think they use a few of the same sounds from the first that might make u feal the coulda updated 
 um a little bit. the voice acting is also top of the line they sound very like they would in real 
 life and since the move so real u start to really feal for these people who talk to u and u dont 
 want um to really die.
  
  over all it isnt as huge of a hit that the first was the second was probably all u have been waiting 
 for and more so go buy it its loads of fun.
  
  oh yeh it also comes with CS source that i wont go that into too much about but its a very fun 
 update to counter strike that u will like so i added that to the score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Head_Shot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2004 6:15 pm PT
Review:  After the immense let down of Doom3, salvation for the FPS genre has arrived. Sequels are notoriously 
 bad, BUT Valve pulls this one off in seemingly effortless style. The graphics... my word, the graphics.... 
 Wow! The gameplay, steady and intense. Almost no time to enjoy the graphics. Sound, just right 
 not too annoying with a nice ambience. I little steep on price, I opted for the CE edition... But 
 they busted their butts on this one so why not splurge. I haven't had this much fun getting in 
 to a game since Far Cry... Hope everyone has room on their hard drive for this one, I suggest deleting 
 Doom3 to make more room ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedalhead
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2004 5:26 pm PT
Review:  So it's here at last. The sequel to what is generally considered to be the best PC game ever made. 
 Six years in the making, broken deadlines, code theft & subsequent alpha leak, high profile legal 
 argument with their publisher, and a revolutionary new software delivery system that is liked & 
 loathed in equal measures. Probably the most highly anticipated game ever, with a fanbase so loyal 
 that over 2 million people pre-ordered it.
  
  No pressure then.
  
  Initial impressions are what we hoped. The feeling of being in an alien world is palpable from 
 the first step you take from the train. The graphics are definitely a step up from the previous 
 generation of FPS games, on a par with Far Cry &, at a push, maybe even Doom3. Performance is reasonable 
 even on a mid-range PC, though the auto-saving stutter can be an annoyance (most likely to be made 
 optional via a future patch) . Enemy AI seems reasonable (though by no means groundbreaking) , and 
 coupled with well designed & varying levels, plus weapons that are convincing & fun to use, the 
 game is genuinely great fun to play through.
  
  One of the greatest strengths of the original Half Life was it's storyline. It was totally engrossing, 
 and something of a breakthrough at the time. Unfortunately, this cannot be said for the sequel. 
 In fact, the story is fairly thin, consisting of "take this vehicle & go there", or "go meet this 
 person over here" type activities. There's the occasional scripted cutscene involving some people 
 telling you where you have to get to next, and that's the main core of the story. Disappointing, 
 and in my opinion the reason that holds this game back from true greatness. However...
  
  Very quickly, you learn the true hero of this story is in fact... the Source engine. How would you 
 like to be able to pick up various items of furniture and throw them at the baddies? How about 
 tear a radiator off the wall & hit someone over the head with it? Or chuck a TV out the window? 
 Throw a pot of paint at your enemies & cover them in white emulsion? Or maybe you'd like to line 
 up those bad guys & send a buzz-saw blade through five of them at once? Mega-killlll! Well, now 
 you can... and let me tell you, it is an awful lot of fun!! For the first time that I have seen, 
 you really feel like you have some control over your environment & the items in it. No longer is 
 it just a walkthrough consisting of guns and ammo. Oh no, this time, you have a choice of how you 
 dispatch your enemies. Throw a desk at them... then pick up the splinters of wood & throw them too... then 
 perhaps finish it off with a couple of fire extinguishers? No problem. Of course, you could always 
 be old fashioned and shoot them repeatedly in the head with a pistol, but where's the fun in that?
 
  
  So, for me, the story of Half Life 2 is actually the story of the Source engine. Without a doubt 
 the most exciting development in FPS gaming for years. Valve will of course be licensing Source 
 to other developers, so we can look forward to many more games built around this superb creation. 
 I for one can't wait... and, just maybe, one or two of them could have the storylines to match the 
 engine.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 17, 2004 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 i must say is a pretty good game, but it didn't live to the hype, that was to expected 
 after 6 years of hard work after half life. I mean in six years, i think valve could have cleaned 
 up alot of the mess that they made for this game, for example the storyline, It felt as if a little 
 kid put his comic book storyline into this game. When people make a game, they need to think of 
 the entire game not just the storyline. So halo 2 was a great game, as eye candy but needs some 
 big help in the story, hopefully they might realize the next time if there is a next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmagus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 17, 2004 4:18 pm PT
Review:  HALF-LIFE 2
  ----------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY
  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Average very average. I knew 
 this game was'nt gonna be revolutionary as it's first title but I expected alot more from this 
 title. The AI in the game was ok nothing great. The troops felt like every other FPS they shoot then 
 run sideways and hide then pop out and shoot. or they run towards you. The aliens and creatures again 
 came at you and you shot at them. The story in the game was again average nothing great but not 
 bad however the ending was kind of lame and disapointing. Vehicles in this game were awful never 
 have I played a game were I hated the vehicles this much. Sad thing is there are 2 huge lvels were 
 you drive vehices and to shoot unless the enemies are in front of you you have to come to a slow 
 to shoot with accuracy, which when antlions are swarming you gets frustrating. The buggy was the 
 most annoying flips over all the time making you get out and use the gravity gun to flip it. The 
 weapons in this game were ok most of the same things as Half-Life 1 with a few new ones. The biggest 
 new weapon was the grav gun which allows you to pick up object and throw them or stack them to 
 reach high places. This gun was satisfying and a hell of alot of fun. I still wish you could pick 
 up dead bodies and use them as sheilds or throw them but you could'nt do that. The enviroment interactivity 
 in this game is cool there's things you can break making stuff fall on enemies. Large chopper blades 
 that slice through enemies and they even let you drop cars on zombies hell yeah. Still this is an 
 average gameplay type game and everything we have pretty much seen before, however this game has 
 the best physics I have yet to see in the game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The characters look and act great in this game. Facial movements and body laungauge that matches 
 perfectly and it really gives you the impressions these are real people. The levels are impressive 
 as well for the most part. The city 17 and city/village levels look great. Some of the cave and undreground 
 type levels look ok. I especially liked DOG he was cool and you get to play catch with him which 
 was kind of cool how it reacted.
  
  SOUND
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I personally did'nt think the sound in this game was very good. Every time you killed a troop in 
 the earlier levels it makes this annoying sound. I just found so many annoying sounds all over. The 
 weapons were not very realistic and the vehicles sounded bad. The voice work in this game was top 
 notch though very well done and again adding to the characters in this game which I feel are the 
 highlight of this game.
  
  Value
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  This is an average game 1 time through and I dont htink many people will go a second round becasue 
 there really isn't many memorable moments or truly exciting levels in this game. However it's still 
 worth a play.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game itself does not have a multiplayer which I would have liked to see. So I will review Counterstrike: source 
 which I guess is it's multiplayer. Again dissapointing for some. If you have never played CS before 
 than there is fun to look forward to. However if you have been playing the game for 2 years now 
 the CS source is the exact same game with nicer graphics nothing special and some physics. i was 
 hoping maybe we would see a Team fortress update or something new but it's not here all they are 
 doing is taking old games and changing graphics and physics. Alot of people I know and myself included 
 stop playing CS because we are tired of playing the same maps there getting incredibly old and 
 outdated.
  
  OVERALL
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Much beyond what I though it was going to be but overall Average and very easy not challenging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solarman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2004 3:39 pm PT
Review:  well I'm not even close to being done with this game and so far it is just simply awsome!
  the boat chapter is very long and fun to drive and ramp. I'm just past the Honted city so I know 
 i have a ton more to go and to explore.
  Sure the graphics isnt anything compared to like DOOM 3 but sorce is a realy good engine to have 
 almost everything in the map useable for a wepon.
  One thing that will be missed for sure in this game is not haveing a Multiplayer!
  The first 
 HL was huge becuse of its multiplayer and soon after it was released Great mods develouped like 
 TF [team fortress] and cs [counter strike] two of the greatest mods ever made for a FPS game. I 
 think its kinda lame for Valve to not bring it to hl2 to just let the mod comunity develope it 
 for themselfs.
  I would like to have at least 1 big city 17 map to beable to use the new wepons added in hl2.
 
  but also I cant be ticked at them for not adding mutiplayer becuse they took more time to develope 
 the game to make it the greatst fps ever! I will have to be pationt and wait for the moders to 
 develope Sven 2 sorce it has CO-OP capabilities. :0) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sshadow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2004 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is just terrific! From the beginning, when you appear on the train, you begin to feel 
 like you are a part of the world and not just a character. The world and NPCs all look gorgeous. 
 The realism and facial movements of the NPCs are all believeable. The gameplay and controls are 
 excellent. The sound along with the voiceovers are superb. The camera drones and the soldiers are 
 all aware of you so that you always feel like you are being watched. Gun turrets follow your movements 
 to the "T". Within the first 45mins of play you are already running for your life with a great 
 level of intensity. Awesome! I began on normal rather than the game default of easy.
  
  I have a 2.6C P4 with 1GB of RAM, PNY Geforce 6800 GT at stock speed, and an Audigy Zs Gamer Sound 
 Card. When the game is loaded, the section runs very smoothly at 1152x854 with everything on High.
 
  
  So why didn't I give it a perfect 10? The load times between each section of the map is relatively 
 long. At least for me, it interrupts the intensity of some of the chases. Once I get my WD Rapter 
 10,000 rpm SATA HDD, that load time should be greatly reduced.
  
  As for multi-player, every other FPS gets spanked by CounterStrike. And with the Source engine, 
 it will remain that way. Not to say that UT2004 or Halo/Halo 2 MP isn't fun, but there is a reason 
 why CS is still the #1 Multi-player online action game.
  
  I think the before mentioned games are awesome too but Half-life 2, IMO, and the opinions of many 
 online and offline game review mags/sites, is the best FPS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aintraba
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 17, 2004 2:34 pm PT
Review:  OK so i was annoyed to heck last night with all the issues with the athentication servers. But 
 two hours of trying later. It was worth it. Just amazeing. Not enough space to even discribe how 
 unbeleveable this game is. I'm nowhere near done wiht the game. (wife made me come to bed at midnight!) 
 But it is a visual and mental emmersion like no other game has had before. On one note I had some 
 audio clipping and noise at first with the game but it seemed to clear up
  I dont understand how GS could give HaloII higher rateings. I've played both. Halo II is a rehash. 
 Half Life II is a total revolution to the genra raising the bar massively and it will be a long 
 tiem before any game comes close to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2004 12:07 pm PT
Review:  A little on the short side. I beat it in about 10 hours. Gamespot sais Half Life 2 doesn't revolutionize 
 anything here, I say gamespot critics don't know much about fps genre games. The way you can use 
 objects in your surroundings to change the balance of a fight is amazing. IE - using your gravity 
 gun to hold a metal desk in front of you so you can run down a hallway with out taking fire, name 
 a game out there that allows you to do such a thing. 
  
  This game is phenomenal. The only complaints I have with this game is the ending, and the story 
 behind your character. Gordan never speaks, he never complains, he doesn't get excited. He doesn't 
 seem human. Maybe this makes the game better, since you can't complain that Gordan is some rambo 
 macho man, or a dorky scientist with a vendetta to destroy aliens. I still would've liked to have 
 felt some emotion from him. 
  
  The lack of multiplayer would've been a huge factor in my value/tilt score. But sources have told 
 me a mod called Half Life Death Match is in the works. Which is not created by Valve, but endorsed 
 by Valve. And besides, mods for Half Life 2 will own just as much as the game itself, hopefully. 
 
  
  You can bet the farm there will be a Half Life 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgdsn
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2004 8:46 am PT
Review:  Play it Play itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay 
 itPlay it Play it Play itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay 
 itPlay itPlay it Play it Play itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay 
 itPlay itPlay itPlay it Play it Play itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay 
 itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay it Play it Play itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay 
 itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay it Play it Play itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay 
 itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay it Play it Play itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay 
 itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay itPlay it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seppi71
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2004 8:15 am PT
Review:  I've only been playing for a little while but I can say that Half Life 2 more than lives up to 
 the hype. I was a little worried about how well it would run on my machine, but things are pretty 
 smooth. I get some frame rate drops off and on, but nothing that kills the mood. I kinda expected 
 it since this is such a powerful game. The thing that really wowed me was the texture and level 
 design. My goodness!! Kids, gone are the days of blurry greenish walls and repetitive metal floors. 
 I have never been so immersed in a game's atmosphere. The model designs are beyond perfect. So 
 far - a genuine good time. Installing it was weird - you have to connect to Steam and set up an 
 account and have them unlock the files. An anti-piracy thing, for sure - but weird. I had to wait 
 until late at night to try to set up an account because Steam's servers were chock full of new 
 players (today is the first day HL2 is out!) BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aross2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2004 7:54 am PT
Review:  Let me start with the negative, (notice singular form here) , because there is really only one flaw 
 with this game that I have experienced. The install. You have to have or set up a Steam account 
 to run this game. The good news is, once you have done this & registered the game, you do not have 
 to connect to the Steam servers thereafter, you can just choose to play offline & avoid all that 
 unpleasantness. I know they did this to counterract pirates, but it took me 3 hours to get the 
 game running.
  Now, everything that's great! The graphics are amazing, easily better than Far Cry, Doom3 & Halo2, 
 (all games that I love) . I have a K6 with 512 RAM & a GeForce4Ti4600 which really isn't a totally 
 buff system & this game runs like butter! The bump mapping is laid on thick, the real time lighting 
 & shadow effects are excellent, the vistas are vast & gorgeous & the framerate is rock solid. The 
 indoor environments feel reminiscent of Far Cry's indoor environs, (meaning gorgeously detailed) , 
 & the outdoor environments are the best I have seen in any game, period. The outdoor environments 
 make me think of Chernobyl meets George Orwell's 1984, mass housing tracts, rubble, debris & fires 
 everywhere. Everything just has a post-apocalyptic blasted look to it. Easily the best graphics 
 in a game to date.
  The audio is mind-blowing, especially in 5.1 & the positional sound, (best reason yet to get SS) , 
 is as good as anything I've heard yet. I've experienced a few audio hiccups here & there, but the 
 sound is here to immerse you & make you feel like you are right in the you-know-what. When choppers 
 are flying by & trying to blast you while troopers are firing from all around, you'll understand 
 what truly great audio can do for a game of this sort. Voice acting is terrific & never feels "phoned 
 in".
  And of course, the best part, gameplay. This game really is a FPS fan's wet dream. You get excellent 
 real world weapons with incredibly realistic physics & some not so real world weapons that will 
 blow your fragile little mind. Two words, gravity gun. I swear, this has got to be the greatest 
 gun in any FPS ever. At first, I thought of it more as a novelty weapon, but when I realized all 
 of the absolutely insane things you can do with this gun, the game took on a whole new quality. 
 The reason this gun is so awesome to use is because of the real-world physics & kinetics engine 
 built into this game. Everything has real weight & mass & even bouyncy is taken into account to 
 solve some puzzles. You're thinking, "Oooohhh, never seen ragdoll physics before". Well, sure you 
 have, but you've never seen anything close to the physics in this game. Got 5 or 6 troopers shooting 
 at you? Roll an exploding barrel down the steps to them & detonate it with a few well place pistol 
 shots. Or better yet, see that giant metal girder hanging in the air? Shoot the cable holding one 
 end & it will swing down & crush all the guys at once & smash through a wall to reveal a new level 
 section. Getting attacked in a narrow hallway by lots of baddies with no corners to duck behind? 
 No problemo, use your gravity gun to pull a heat radiator from the wall & hold it in front of you 
 for a shield, then toss it at the enemies to knock them all down at once. Got some big bad meanies 
 coming at you in packs? Run into a room & barricade the door with tables, chairs & anything else 
 you can find. They'll bust in eventually, but it will give you time to regroup. The vehicles, (yes, 
 vehicles) , in the game also seem to be governed by these same rules, which makes them all the more 
 fun to use. There are so many incredible moments like this in the game that it simply outshines 
 anything I have seen to date.
  And last but definitely not least, the AI. Overall, I think this is some of the smartest AI I have 
 seen in a game. It's so realistic that it's occasionally scary. Sometimes the AI will do something 
 that just totally floors me, but when I think about it later, I realize that if I was going to 
 try to route someone out of a hiding spot, that's exactly how I would do it. It seems almost more 
 like the AI is adapting, as opposed to simply reacting. This goes for teammate AI as well as enemy 
 AI. On the normal difficulty setting, enemies will regroup, sweep & clear & do everything in their 
 power to flush you out if you are cowering in a cubby hole whimpering like a child. You teammate 
 AI will duck behind crates, lean out & shoot from corners, & sometimes simply run in fear when 
 the real nasties start stomping around. You even get a chance to have some non-human teammates, 
 but I don't want to spoil the surprise. Let's just say it will bug you out! The game in & of itself 
 is not overly difficult on the default setting, but this is not because the enemies do not put 
 up a fight, but more because everything is so smooth & natural & laid out in such an intuituve 
 way that you never have to fight the interface & can simply concentrate on the next super cool 
 way you are going to take out the next group of chumps. 
  The story is pretty good, but people who have waited this long for HL2 & were hoping to get more 
 answers may be slightly dissapointed. I'm still not sure what was going on with Freeman during 
 the 6 years proceeding the first game leading up to the beginning of part 2. Some things are hinted 
 at, other things are alluded to, but by the end credits, you may still be unclear as to what exactly 
 transpired. Note that if you are not the type of gamer who simply speed-races through a game, then 
 you can pick up more info by listening in on character conversations & being aware of what is going 
 on around you. Although I still have unanswered questions, I was drawn in from the first level, 
 (there are no cut-scenes at all in this game, everything happens in real time around you) , & didn't 
 lose interest until the bitter end. The game is pretty long for a FPS on normal difficulty, it 
 took me approx 17 hours to beat. I will not hesitate to increase the difficulty & run through it 
 again.
  Again, although I loved Far Cry, Doom3 & Halo2, I feel that HL2 is the game that truly lives up 
 to the hype, (surprisingly the media hype was kept to a dull roar, but those of us who played the 
 original & saw the trailers for part 2 were simply foaming at the mouth to get our hands on this 
 gem) , and absolutely raises the bar for every other developer thinking about taking our hard earned 
 money for their FPS. 
  Was it worth the wait? Betcha! Is this the game that will make you rethink what you want out of 
 an FPS? Yeah, it's that too. Will having to create a steam account just to play the game tick you 
 off? It will. But when it comes down to it, this is the game that any true FPS fan must play, right 
 now, this very minute!!! Savor every last hardcore bite! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtouchprod
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2004 7:30 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a mediocre game and a limp successor to one of the greatest PC games of all time. 
 Developer Valve tries and fails to follow in its own groundbreaking footsteps, but the only genuine 
 improvements on the original game are in the graphics, which are spectacular. I was one of those 
 who were eagerly awaiting this game, and when I finally got it to run (more on what a rollercoaster 
 ride that is later,) I was ready to love it. I really wanted to be impressed, but even my rose-colored 
 glasses couldnt allow me to see this game as anything but a dreary gray. I would love to give 
 this game a good review, but I just cant. So lets get started breaking this sad excuse for a 
 story-driven shooter down into its various inadequate parts.
  
  Starting with the most positive, Ill first mention the graphics, which are extraordinary in the 
 textures, animations, and character models. The lip-synching is particularly well executed. There 
 is mood, personality and emotion to be found in the games environments, and a number of spectacular 
 scenes that can drop your jaw or make your heart skip a beat. Some of the monsters are extremely 
 scary-looking, and some of the corpses evoke horror, particularly those with burned-off lips and 
 hideous rigor-mortised grins. It should be mentioned that while the graphics are great, they are 
 no better than any other state-of-the-art game where graphics are the focus, such as Doom 3. Im 
 holding back on giving this a ten out of ten primarily because the death animations are pretty 
 weak and theres a LOT of killing going on so its very noticeable.
  
  The audio is good, but theres nothing special to be said about it. The sound effects are fine, 
 but not ground breaking or even particularly noticeable, and the music is non-intrusive when there 
 is music. The voice acting is adequate to the task, but that task is not particularly challenging 
 or inspiring, since the dialogue is predictable and somewhat dull, typical for a video game and 
 probably written by a programmer (My game had no manual and IMDB. com doesnt list a writer so I 
 cant check the credits.) If it was written by a professional writer, though, he or she should 
 go back to the Syd Field workshop because not only is the dialogue boring and predictable, but 
 the story is an absolute disaster that starts nowhere under the guise of being a mystery, and goes 
 nowhere flying proudly under the banner of laziness, inadequacy, and/or simple lack of caring. 
 
  
  Now, speaking of the story, it is just plain bad. Half-life, for its time, was a huge leap forward 
 in storytelling, particularly for first-person shooters. It engaged the player with drama, surprises, 
 and emotional content. Half-life 2 is maybe a half-step forward from that, which leaves them about 
 four and a half steps behind the rest of the world since this sequel took well over five years 
 to produce. This would have been a pretty good game, story-wise, if it came out 12-18 months after 
 the first game, but in the wake of games like Knights of the Old Republic, Metal Gear Solid, and 
 Morrowind: Elder Scrolls, it just left me yawning. There are things going on, but theres no reason 
 to care about them, and the pacing is so poor that even if one felt interested in the story, there 
 would be no time to digest it. 
  
  Im aware that its a little unfair to compare what is essentially an action game to role-playing 
 games like KOTOR or Morrowind, but I think that Valve has sold this game as story-driven, and it 
 obviously attempts to tell a compelling tale, so I think Im judging it by its own standards here. 
 There have been plenty of examples in the last few years of how to tell a great story in a video 
 game, and Valve can fairly be blamed for not learning from those.
  
  As for the much-heralded physics engine, I dont see anything there to be particularly proud of. 
 There are a few interesting bells and whistles, but theyre carefully choreographed and obviously 
 placed in the game in order to be noticed. Other than those few exceptions its exactly like any 
 other game: some items are meant to be interacted with, and these are obvious, others are clearly 
 not and they are just dead objects with textures but no interactivity. A few examples: some windows 
 can be broken and others are completely indestructible no matter how much firepower you throw at 
 them, despite them all presumably being made of glass. All doors are completely unbreakable, no 
 matter how thick or thin, and many of them dont open at all for no apparent reason (except of 
 course the firm hand of the design team shoving the player down their appointed path.) Some garbage 
 can be picked up and manhandled, such as cinderblocks and fire extinguishers (of which there are 
 an absurd amount, because they explode when thrown,) but most garbage is just a lump with a generic 
 garbage texture slapped onto it. As I mentioned before, the deaths are particularly lame, and no 
 matter where you shoot the bad guys, they all die the same death (unless you shoot them with a 
 circular saw blade, in which case they all die the same identical cut-in-half death regardless 
 of where you actually hit them with the blade.) Injuries dont seem to count at all; NPCs have 
 two states in combat: dead and not-dead. Im amazed at all the hype this physics engine is getting. 
 To me it looks like a lot of pre-release marketing noise followed by a lot of reviewers not taking 
 a clear-eyed look at the actual product.
  
  Now for the worst part of this game: the Steam server system. This game cannot be played if you 
 are not connected to the internet, or if the Valve-created Steam server is busy, for example when 
 a lot of people buy and then play a vastly over-hyped game on its release day. Let me say that 
 again, because I think it bears repeating: just buying and installing this game on your PC is not 
 enough to allow you to play it. You also need, every time you start it, a clear connection to Valves 
 servers. I personally have seen several versions of a failure state when starting the game, all 
 related to Steam being too busy for me, and the forums here at gamespot. com are full of other stories 
 like mine. I suspect this setup was a reaction to the theft of the Half-Life 2 source code last 
 year and the release of unofficial versions of the game that followed the theft. Not only is this 
 a case of locking the barn door after the horses have escaped, its also punishing the entire class 
 for one childs behavior. My attempts to call their tech support phone number were met, all day 
 long, with the message All circuits are busy, so one can only hope that Valve is learning the 
 hard way what a tragically stupid, insulting thing this was to do to its paying customers. I would 
 have tilted this game low anyway, but the Steam server is the reason I gave it a three instead 
 of, probably, a six.
  
  All in all this is a fairly standard action game that will sell many times the number of copies 
 that it should, and earn the people who created it a lot more money than they deserve. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurlayneVeddel
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 17, 2004 7:19 am PT
Review:  This is simply the best game I've ever played. I want to make this review quick as I need sleep, 
 but I'll say that from the moment I booted HL2 I knew it was worth the 6 year wait. The beginning 
 sequence with the new and improved GMan aptly shows the stunning facial anaimations and the physics 
 are the best to date in ANY game (the Gravity Gun is the greatest gun in any game, EVER) . Half 
 Life 2 has a more immersive atmosphere than even Doom 3 in my opinion (and I loved Doom 3) , truly 
 giving off the impression of a near apocolyptic world. The weapons are superb, with a wide range 
 of pistols to SMG's to stranger weapons like the Pulse Cannon and Bug Bait. You are constantly 
 challenged to find ways to incorporate physics into the progress of the game, and this is the only 
 FPS in which I haven't been madly annoyed at jumping puzzles in. Also, for those that complain 
 about the lack of a Half Life 2 specific multi-player mode... are you REALLY ready to ask for more 
 than CS: S? CS is allready the greatest MP game of all time, and updated with the fantastic Source 
 engine it can't fail. I'm no sure how long the game will be as I'm not done yet, but it's lookin 
 good so far. Valve has let none down; with the best gunplay, physics, sound design (5.1 is AWESOME) 
 and an ambitous story Half Life 2 is one of the great's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Samurai04
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2004 7:19 am PT
Review:  7 years in the making. Valve was a good company when it came to their games, story lines, and their 
 ability to allow their fans to become one with the game.
  
  As we know Half-Life had many if not a complete set of mods for it, and we'll see the same with 
 Half-Life 2. But, the big debate is: "Does it live up to the original?"
  
  It surpasses the original in many aspects. From sound, to story, to graphics and a lot more.
 
  
  The graphics to this game is more than what you see. It's how you interact, and the enviroments 
 are highly interactable. This is a prodominant feature in this game and something a lot of developers 
 are starting to move into. It's a trend to make games more interactive through dynamics. This game 
 is sets and amazing foundation.
  
  Looking at the graphics -- you'll find yourself easily immersed. The game supports amazingly beautiful 
 and concrete graphics. The normal mapping and the displacement mapping worked beautifully in this 
 game to make surfaces look more realistic. But also, with the players their faces, their eyes, 
 their teeth, and all the parts that pertain to them. It's all extremely beautiful and well done; 
 with the specular lighting and much more.
  
  The graphical effects of this game are superb.
  
  The sound was something out of this world. 
 You can't enjoy this game with anything below a 5.1 -- the aural experience is amazing. Like any 
 other game that uses 5.1, it's always amazing to hear the crack from the back and just get psyched 
 or pumped or just scared waiting for something to happen. It's amazing, and the sound effects fit 
 the game perfectly. Loud, scary and well... badass.
  
  Hearing echoes through caverns and such, hearing splashes, everything sounded realistic; yet, it 
 kept you glued to the edge of your seat.
  
  The story of this game is something. It fits will and it isn't a let down. I found myself enjoying 
 every minute that I've been playing. It couldn't have been done any better in my oppion. There's 
 good with the bad; although, people may find some parts bad due to the fact they may or may not 
 understand it. Be sure to pick up Half-Life play that and then play Half-Life 2.
  
  The controls are basiclaly the same -- the only difference is the weapons you're given.
  
  
 The weapons are indeed something. They're crafted very well and the way you can use them to interact 
 with the enviroment and manipulate the enviroment. It allows you to gain upper-hands in tight situations. 
 They allow you to do a lot -- nothing beats the crowbar though heh.
  
  Anyways, overall. This is a perfect game in my mind. Perfect for this generation, perfect for the 
 computer hardware out right now, and I don't think it could have been done any better.
  
  Great game and a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZAddicted
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 17, 2004 7:09 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I was waiting for this game more than Halo 2 actually. Eventually, yes, as I expected 
 this game is the bomb. No, first of all, is this a game? Even Halo 2 couldn't give such experience 
 like this. 
  
  Let's see how the game is. 
  
  Gameplay: Impressive. The game speed is almost as same as the first one, and traditional Half-Life 
 system is not dead yet. I'm sure you will be feeling like you are back to Half-Life world once 
 again as well. 
  You can grab the things this time, and you can throw them. Using guns feel so good... like all I 
 can say is "how come I can't stop playing this game?". It's maybe because the game is truly realistic. 
 Soldiers will check you, if you try to push them or annoy them, then they will use their weapon 
 to bash you, and they will even kill you. When I saw their actions, I was very excited, and I was 
 very impressed even if this was a little thing. This is just a pure suspense, that's all I want 
 to say. I don't really see the problems here.
  
  Graphics: If the graphics of Half-Life 2 are bad, then which game would be having the best graphics 
 in all time? There is nothing more to say about the graphics. 
  Problems? Of course, NOPE. 
  
  Sound: The first one did not have music during the gameplay, 
 but this time, it has the music. And yes, I heard the music in the game and all I want to say is 
 I WANT THE SOUND TRACK. No seriously, why is this game so great? 
  
  Value: Ah... one score was lost in here. Why? Because I bought the collector's edition and the collector's 
 edition was pretty much not exactly what I was expecting to see. The package is not heavy, and 
 when I opened it, it only has small hint book, t-shirt (This is cool actually =) ) , HL2 DVD-ROM, 
 and an information sheet that tells you how to install the game....
  I was kind of disappointed, but eventually the game totally blew all those things away. 
  
 
  Half-Life 2 is basically like a real life. You are being treated like a slave by the soldiers, 
 and you will see people suffering and crying. They are all demanding a hero who can save them, 
 a hero who can bring freedom to them. Who would the hero be? 
  
  Isn't that YOU? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStorm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2004 6:05 am PT
Review:  Of course there is no such thing as perfect, ever, but 10 means it has perfected gaming it self. 
 And boy does HL2 do that and then some. It has been 6 years of waiting to get back into the shoes 
 of Gordon Freeman, the doctor who was the saviour of Black Mesa. At first I was a tad skeptical, 
 I wondered if Half-Life could be topped, it has don't worry about it.
  
  First graphics... wow. That is all I can keep saying, though it may not have the heavy dynamic lighting 
 that DOOM 3 uses *too much... a huge gimmick* The grahpics are just amazing, after you see the character 
 models in HL2, all others will look like pure crap in comparision. For once I felt emotions from 
 a game, each character really spoke to me in more then just words, they would look hurt, sad, happy, 
 and pretty much any characteristic you have ever seen done by one of your friends, it has been 
 done here to perfection. The water, the fire effects, everything is just perfectly done. I encountered 
 no frame rate issues (I admit my machine is very powerful) . But this game out does every other 
 game artisticaly and by just pure brillance of programing.
  
  The sound in this is excellent as well, having my 5.1 Klipsch Ultra's cranked up, I jumped, screamed, 
 cheered many times for my team mates. The music matches the mood, and every sound is great. The 
 voice acting is the best ever, I have played thousands of games on many platforms and this is easily 
 the best voice work ever done by any game, these are truly virtual actors. And some of the sounds 
 the zombie's make, just make tingles go up and down your spine. The sound is just perfectly done, 
 and I never found any glitches with it at all. 
  
  Value wise this game is a complete package, I played for about 22 hours strait, and I'm about to 
 go to bed. I am a master with FPS it is "my" genre that I've always been good at and it took me 
 a good 20-22 hours to complete, and I wondered around and absorbed everything. The pacing and length 
 is just perfect, you never get bored, and when you think your about to the gameplay changes. Also 
 I recieved HL Source and CS Source, great additions. CS: S will keep you busy for years to come. 
 Office is well done, and got everyone off of playing Dust and Aztec too much. And the great thing 
 is, is Valve is all ready working on some NEW maps for CS: S that have never been seen before, they 
 will come out in December. It's a shame there is no HL2 DM out of the box, but from what I've heard 
 I"m sure Valve will work on it right away. But this game is worth every penny, you will play the 
 single player at least twice, and CS: S almost feels re-born, and will keep you entertained for 
 hours on end.
  
  Gameplay, ahhh now for the meat of HL2. I love how the reviewer from Gamespot said that there is 
 not much new here... well no crap it's a FPS, the core of a FPS is SHOOTING in first person. If 
 you made it too much else it would turn into a RPG or an adventure. But for the FPS genre this 
 game has gone leaps and bounds, with it's polish and mainly it's execution, and how IMMERSED you 
 get into this game. The story is great, the first half you are asking questions, then it is all 
 revealed, and more questions asked, the story is truly entertaining and unforgettable, you know 
 there will be an HL3. This game has also revoltionized the entire industry, now the industry will 
 have to keep up with physics and the emotion put into HL2, no game... I mean NO game can come close 
 what so ever. This game will grab you and never let go. The AI was well done, and the challange 
 was perfect, I really don't know what this Jason reviewer was thinking.... this game has changed 
 the way all other FPS's will be done. Bravo Valve. Bravo.
  
  To put this in a few words, Half-Life 2 is bigger then any of us could of hoped, and if you are 
 going to get into a stupid Halo 2 vs. Half-Life 2 debate... just let the people play both of them, 
 and if they come back still claiming Halo 2 to the throne, you know they are legaly retarded, this 
 game is just plain enough to see it is intellegent, emotional, powerful, and heart pounding. Stop 
 reading my review, go out and put your money down and be prepared for the ride of your life. This 
 game will bring millions of non gamers into our world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainniar
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 17, 2004 5:56 am PT
Review:  Be prepared to be let down by the ending/overall story with HL2. Some people may enjoy it but I 
 feel for most people they're going to be pretty upset with it. 
  
  On most 5.1 surround cards the game doesn't like to stay set to using all 5 channels, so constantly 
 resetting the sound gets a bit annoying. Not only that but the game can run into some serious performance 
 issues on a variety of high-end machines (Not all I said a variety) , from choppy frame rates to 
 every 30-40 seconds the player recieves a 2-4 second pause. 
  
  Let's move onto the load times, yeah there's A LOT of em.
  
  **SPOILERS**
  And once again 
 ENDING ENDING ENDING ENDING, I'm sorry I don't feel like waiting around another 4-6 years for HL3 
 to come out to explain who the hell the G-MAN is (or at LEAST a little bit about him) and what 
 the hell has been going on since Black Mesa, and what the combine REALLY are.
  
  Final score for me: 7.4 a good game with GREAT game play, it could have been much more solid but 
 the straight up lack of Multiplayer (Counter Strike source does not I repeat DOES NOT equate to 
 classic Death Match, etc.) , lack of a decent story line I have come to expect, and coupled with 
 a few bugs in the build, I'd say that score is fair! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2004 5:22 am PT
Review:  The second the clock stroke 12:00AM I started up my steam, and bam on my first try the activation 
 started. I honestly had a huge grin on my face; I was ready to play a great game. I took a deep 
 breath, and well I was disappointed at how the game was running, it was not choppy, my computer 
 handled the graphics fine, but on new areas, and occasionally on voice acting it would cut, or 
 skip. After 10 seconds it was running near perfect with the occasional skip, anyways I looked further 
 then that and every second I have been play HL2, there has never been a dull moment, its action 
 packed. Every corner you turn there is another great moment, with action that doesnt get old, 
 and the best physics to date. I see people complaining, when they should rejoice in what a great 
 game this is, so someone said this is suppose to be the most realistic game ever, well get over 
 it its a game, and trying to make it the most realistic ever will take even long, HL2 is fine 
 the way it is, and no other FPS compares to it. The only problem is, the story is kind of short, 
 and if you had already paid HL2 off prior to release, and have played CS: S to the bone, then you 
 start wishing there was a death match mode for HL2, which there isnt any. But then again, I cannot 
 wait for the modifications that people will make (I will also be making one) . All right guys thats 
 it, and I can honestly say that HL2 is a great game, my favorite! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nevidimka
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 17, 2004 4:23 am PT
Review:  Look .... the game is great but for "the best game ever made" they could have done better...
  
  The story is OK but as far the "new" engine its nothing revolutionary.... Its nothing i havent 
 seen... (FarCry, MaxPayne2) just to name a few... the world in hl2 is beautiful but not fully explorable 
 as in farcry and as far as "the most realistic physics" explain to me how can you walk through 
 dead bodies or swim through them when theyre floating, also the world is NOT fully destructible 
 you are limited to things you can do, touch, move, etc. as in max payne 2 limited.
  
  I had my graphics all the way up i got ati 9800 pro 128 mb.... anyways "AlienWare"
  
  Not to 
 knock the game but there was nothing revolutionary about the new engine that I saw.
  
  I dont even want to talk about the gameplay.... you be the judge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarthVader-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Wake up, HL2 fans, Wake up and start playing. HL2 finally hit shelves today and was unlocked through 
 steam. HL2 has you once again playing the lead role of Gordon Freeman, the game starts with you 
 arriving at city 17 by train with 2 other passangers, by the time you've step out of the train 
 you see the valves source engine at its finest, HL2 visuals are some of the most jaw dropping todate. 
 The sound effects and voice acting are also very well done, even though gordon doesn't talk himself 
 you get the feeling that the characters are talking to you. Theres been alot of talk about, the 
 story being dissapointing. Well its not the case, HL2 story is as good if not better then the original, 
 the cliff hanger at the end makes you wanna come back for more and wish that valve would release 
 HL3 sooner. There are upset though, the ending is extremely easy, and multiplayer, yes CS: S even 
 tho DOD: S will soon be coming out valve should have atleast packed in a DM.
  
  in the end HL2 is a great game and any FPS fan or fan of the series should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawk213v
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 17, 2004 2:38 am PT
Review:  Ive been anticipating this game for years and boy was it worth the wait! This game has a pretty 
 hefty load to carry considering its the sequel to the most highly acclaimed game ever made. As 
 said in the review, the story might be a little weak, but thats compared to what we all thought 
 it would be like. The story is still very immersive and compelling. The weapon sound effects are 
 amazing! I love the sounds of the guns! The physics engine.... oh man! dont get me started. it 
 is the most fun thing to screw around with ever in a game!! Ive spent hours just launching chairs 
 and paint cans at my enemies! Its amazing how much detail and precision they created the physics 
 engine with. The graphical performance is out-standing! On my card (EVGA 6800 Ultra) the graphics 
 are flawless! The water effects are amaingly realistic. They refract and reflect just as youd expect 
 them to... in real life! I am having an amazingly fun time with this game and there is still plenty 
 of fun to come! The only reason I didnt give this game a 10 is beacause of all the parts of this 
 game, I found that the sound was the weakest part, and to give this game a 10 is a little too generous. 
 The only thing that should keep you fom getting this game is an over-protective mom, no money, 
 or a crappy rig. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simulacra123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2004 2:08 am PT
Review:  For the first time in review history, this 10 actually means "perfect". More perfect than Halo, 
 Myst, The Sims, and especially more perfect than games that have actually received a 10 from gamespot 
 (Zelda, Tony Hawk's 3) . I am neither a fan boy nor a loyal follower of the Half Life series, but 
 this game is simply unbelievable. The first 30 minutes of this game has you walking around a city, 
 no weapons or battles present, and that part is more fun than anything in the Halo 2 campaign.
 
  The feeling of being in the locales is so strong it cannot be described, one word comes to mind, 
 immersion, but even that does not do justice to this game. In no way could I have imagined the 
 game being this cool. Combat is purely frenetic, and you are constantly looking for ways to outsmart 
 a VERY smart enemy. I'm going to just stop writing this review now, because I could go on forever. 
 The one thing I can say is that this is one game that absolutely NO ONE should miss. Even if you 
 don't buy it, just make sure you see it at someone's house, because this is the future, the gap 
 between movies and video games has been bridged, and this is it. As a final note, the gamespot 
 reviewers are complete and utter fools who have no appreciation of how a game can transcend that 
 title and actually become art. If Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 deserved a 10, this deserved a 100. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ioden
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2004 2:04 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a masterpiece, and it's one of the best games in a long time. There, I said it. 
 It's an absolute marvel of storytelling, technology, interactivity... every part, except the same-old 
 multiplayer, is nearly flawless.
  
  The game drops you back into Gordan Freeman's shoes, in the run-down, high-tech City 17, run by 
 a former Black Mesa administrator. You meet up with old friends, meet new friends, and make your 
 way through the whole city while fighting Combine, headcrabs, zombies, barnacles, and other things 
 old and new. The first thing you will notice is the graphics, which far surpass any game to date 
 in terms of artistry, realism, and detail. The textures, models, lighting, enviroments... it's 
 all top-notch. This is the only game that puts Doom 3, the former best-looking-game-ever, to shame. 
 Everything is jaw-droppingly beautiful, and only helps to make the game more immersive.
  
  The game once again has no cutscenes past the brief introduction from the G-Man, who once again 
 haunts your every step. Only this time, he doesn't look like a constipated plumber- he looks like 
 an old, creepy man who won't put up with crap. Anyway, the gameplay is the real shining part of 
 HL2. The puzzles, the vehicles, the gunplay... every part is perfect. Even though the game is only 
 about 15 hours long, you will want to play it again on a higher difficulty, and there will be plenty 
 of mods coming along soon.
  
  Mods. Usually they help a game's value, but here, they hurt it- one of them, that is. Counter-Strike: 
 Source- a remake of the classic realistic shooter mod for the original Half-Life done on the new 
 Half-Life 2 engine, keeps the gameplay the same, but improves the graphics greatly and makes them 
 look just as good as Half-Life 2. The gameplay, the realistic gameplay that it's famous for, is 
 still great. What ruins Source is the community. All the whiners, cheaters, brats, obnoxious spammers, 
 team-killers, people who flash their own team, people who don't plant the bomb when they get it, 
 people who don't take out the bomb-carrier when they can. These people were in the original, but 
 now they've duplicated. Every server has at least one of these obnoxious asses, and quite simply, 
 they will ruin the game for you. Or else you can play in a clan, which almost always have hardcore, 
 annoying players who make fun of anyone who can't get a headshot with no time to aim with a pistol 
 from across the entire map and guard themself at the same time. The community, yes, ruins the game. 
 This makes the multi-player almost unplayable, and as such, HL2's value suffers for it. It's a 
 shame- I'd love to give the game a 10, as the single-player is long enough to keep everyone happy, 
 but they had to include Counter-Strike: Source with the game, so it's part of the game, and so 
 the game isn't perfect. 
  
  One thing that sets HL2 apart is the physics. Valve made, or used, an EXTREMELY detailed physics 
 engine, and integrated it into the gameplay almost seamlessly. Every object reacts accordingly 
 to you, and is destructable. Every object of a fairly small size can be picked up by hand, and 
 bigger objects can be picked up and hurled around with the kick-ass Manipulator Gun, which you 
 get fairly early on in the game. There are puzzles, gameplay situations, and enemy tactics that 
 use physics. From balancing out ramps over water by putting barrels under it to using cinder blocks 
 as stairs, the physics engine is just part of the experience, and can't be ignored. You can block 
 doorways, drop boxes on enemies, blow up barrels to take out large clusters of enemies- the possibilites 
 are nearly limitless. Plus, this gives modders a huge opportunity to make physics-based mods or 
 incorporate physics into their mods- they could, for example, have a mod where you can only attack 
 by picking up barrels with the Manipulator gun and throwing them at enemies. Could you do that 
 with any other game? No, you can't. One more reason why Half-Life 2 is an amazing game.
  
  Overall, the entire game is so close to being flawless that you'd be a fool to not pick it up if 
 you have a PC from the last three years. Half-Life 2 is everything you've waited for, everything 
 you could want, everything you could ever dream of, but the one thing that you really didn't ask 
 for (Counter-Strike: Source) is the thing that keeps the game from absolute perfection. No matter. 
 Half-Life 2 will still go down as the best FPS on the PC and one of the best games in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2004 1:32 am PT
Review:  The time has finally come for the patient fans of Half-life to once again hold the mighty crowbar 
 in their hands. After a long wait, it has arrived, Half-Life 2. It's been a long road to get to 
 this point, and in so many ways it is worth it. The game straps you in for a ride with your favorite 
 techman, Gordon Freeman. The first thing you realize when you step into the world of Half-Life 
 2 is, "I think I could cry." Through breathtaking graphics, gameplay that sends chills down your 
 spin, and a story that leaves you craving for more like the people scarfin' down big macs at McDonalds, 
 Gabe Newell has once again created a master peice.
  
  In recent times, graphics has been taking an extroidinary leap forward with the new hardware that 
 has graced our computers. Half-Life 2 takes full advantage of all the goodies that come with a 
 spanking good computer system. The world is filled with intricate details that will steal your 
 breath away, and might make you faint if you forget to breathe. My only nitpick detail of the game 
 is the water. It isn't quite the greatest, but it still deserves its kudos. Everything in the game 
 seems like it revolves around you. During the beginning introduction to the game I often found 
 myself either laughing hysterically or crawled back into the corner of my room.
  
  After the graphics set in, you find yourself with a few guns and the objective to kick some combines 
 in the rear. The guns have a futuristic feel to them, which can be great at times. Even your modest 
 revolver feels like it has been given a techlift. The vehicles add a lot of gameplay value to the 
 game as well. From those airboats you find in the bayou to some more dazzling vehicles, they don't 
 stop but giving you some fun.
  
  The final thing about Half-Life 2 is the story. It's hard to give a good explanation without giving 
 away too many details, but I will say that it does make you wish that you could hug Gabe..... we'll 
 maybe not. With all these things Half-Life 2 clocks in as a heavy weight contendor for game of 
 the year with its graphics, storyline, and gameplay. I'd say this game is a must to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2004 1:23 am PT
Review:  Half-life is so many things. Not only did it take you on a adventure, but the adventure felt real, 
 it felt like you were Gordon Freeman. It tried (and succeded) , not to be just another FPS, In the 
 90's these games were simply run and gun, and there was no substance. Half-life engaged you, you 
 felt bad when a character died, and you listened to every word the 4 scientists said. Does Half-life 
 2 manage to do these things? Yes, and much, much, more. Not only are the graphics a wonder to behold, 
 the sound is suberb, and the gameplay is some of the best I have ever expierienced. In Gamespot's 
 review they said it was not revolutionary. Have you ever played a game with completely realistic 
 physics, were nearly every object obeys to the laws of mass, bouency and friction? In my opinion 
 the physics make Half-Life 2 the game that it is (which is superb.) 
  
  Not only does HL2 do all the things HL did, but better, and more often. Something cool/interesting 
 happens every 2-3 minutes (at the least.) And the characters are unbelieveably realistic. This 
 is all done to draw you into the story, and let me tell you, it works well, too well. You can easily 
 pull all-nighters with this game. As Half-Life did back in 1998, the new FPS's that will be coming 
 out after HL2, will basically be modeled after this game. Remember, they can never be better than 
 the original. If your a fan of the series, or a fan of games in general, this is the game for you. 
 I will be playing it until HL3 comes around, Isn't that a scary thought?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 17, 2004 1:19 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is probably the most anticipated game of 2004 besides Halo 2, and lets face it, Half 
 Life 2 has some big shoes to fill.
  
  Valve has some serious competition this time around. Doom 3 and Halo 2 have been released and have 
 really shaken up the FPS genre of gaming. Doom 3 is considered to be the most beautiful game on 
 the PC at this time and Half Life 2 aims to take that crown away. Halo 2 is really where the trouble 
 begins for Half Life 2. Halo 2 has a great storyline and a truly spectacular campaign that is topped 
 off with a truly remarkable multiplayer and xbox live experience. Half Life 2 has its work cut 
 out for it.
  
  A few years ago when Valve sat down and picked up Half LIfe 2, theyhad no idea what they were getting 
 into, but they set out to create the ultimate FPS, while it is clear that they failed that objective, 
 it is clear that they made something truly revolutionary.
  
  By any standpoint, Half Life 2 is an impressive game that stands out as the best FPS on the PC 
 since the original half life so many years ago. The strongest points of Half Life 2 are its graphics 
 and sound. The graphics are the best in any videogame ever made, with a smooth framerate and details 
 that flow perfectly, noticably better then Doom 3. The sound is loud and beautiful to hear, streaming 
 explosings and gunshots that put you right in the middle of that action and deliver a better experience 
 then what graphics alone could bring. That being said, Half Life 2 definetly missed out on some 
 major aspects of what could have put it above Halo 2 as the most respected first person shooter 
 game of all time. Valve got the gameplay right in Half Life 2, its fast and fun with variety and 
 plenty of aliens to kill as Gordon moves throughout his various environments. However, the joy 
 of this game is extremely short lived. After you beat the surprisngly short (for 6 years in development) 
 campaign, you look for more to draw you back to the spectacular experience, but find nothing. No 
 true multiplayer and no huge extras cause the replay value of Half Life 2 to fall to rock bottom. 
 The game gives you a great first impression and falls down from there.
  
  Bottom line is that after 6 years in development you would have expected more from HL2, thats not 
 to say that Half Life 2 is bad, but that it pails in comparison to other games like Halo 2 that 
 have risen above the bar and made a much more enjoyable FPS experience. After 3 days, I was back 
 to Halo 2 full time, Half Life 2 fals short of its own high standards, and therefore fails to deliver 
 the ultimate first person shooter experience that it promised 6 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roosteratumd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2004 12:48 am PT
Review:  Before Half-Life 2 I was skeptical. I didn't believe that anything could top the first game. When 
 I played Half-Life 2 today, nonstop for 17 hours, (that should tell you something right there) 
 I was enthralled every inch of the way. 
  
  Half-Life 2 doesn't surpass the original, but it does revive the original and make you remember 
 why it was so great. Half Life games are really an experience. You can try to explain how cool 
 and atmospheric they are, but you have to experience them first hand to truly understand. 
  
  Half-Life 2 does what the first game did, except adds realistic physics and more thrills. The 
 physics really add a sense of realism to the game. It's always very well implemented. It's especially 
 satisfying to see a ceiling-sucker (or whatever they are called) try to eat an explosive barrel. 
 
  
  Unlike the gamespot reviewer, I thought the story was well implemented, although it does leave 
 a lot unexplained. It does in a sense feel like a chapter in between the conclusion, but it's no 
 Matrix: Reloaded, trust me.
  
  There are a couple problems. Your human enemies have devolved in intelligence it seems, it's easier, 
 and the multiplayer is a redone version of Counter-Strike. A lot of people will like this, but 
 I really enjoyed the original Half-Life multiplayer. 
  
  All in all, it's a great experience, and the most fun, thrilling shooter since the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HLfanatic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2004 12:15 am PT
Review:  This will be the best game u ever played. From starting to end u r captivated by the story, graphics, 
 phisyics, sound, realism, facial animation, ect. ITS CRAZY GOOD. Truly to get the whole experience 
 you need to have a good computer even though can play with out the best computer. If you like doom 
 3, gta 3, 4, 5, sims, papermario, or any other games u people play, u will like this game. If u 
 like games in general GET HALF-LIFE 2. 
  
  The gameplay is extrodinay since they had to come up with a story thats better than half-life #1
 
  The graphics I don't even need to talk about. (better than doom 3, halo 2, and gta SA combined.)
 
  They took real sounds from real guns and they have a crazy sound track that u need to listen to.
 
  I would rate the value a 15 and my tilt will be 30
  
  In Conlusion go and BUY HALF-LIFE 2 OR ELSE ull be missing the best game not of the day, not of 
 the week, not of the month, not of the year, not of the decade, not of the century, not even the 
 millinium but the best freakin game EVER. - HLfanatic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Topazworm
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This is just a very brief view (Not a proper review guys) , my view, on hl2.
  Like many of you all I waited for hl2 with baited breath. I even woke up with 5 mins to spare to 
 play it first. Upon entering this wonderful hl2 world I was met with some sense of disappointment. 
 Most of it was on my part as I have seen so many hl2 movies that when I played certain parts I 
 knew what was coming next. The game started off well and I enjoyed it. Action packed and fun. But 
 soon as I had to enter the speed boat I was disappointed. I just felt the handling was way off. 
 It seemed almost drunk? I cant explain it but I was struggling to control it. Same goes for the 
 buggy (later) . Another thing that struck me was the loading times, took forever, but I let it pass. 
 Then we got the story line. After playing on the game solid for 3 hours it stopped and thought 
 "hang on, what is my mission? Whats the point of all this?" so many questions unanswered, so many 
 new ones, again left unanswered. I felt there wasnt much of a story and questions from the previous 
 game were left in limbo. And once again after all these years I have no idea who the G-Man is. 
 Ok it adds to the story and atmosphere but not for me. Overall to summarize I enjoyed the game 
 but having now completed it, I feel like its all over. I cant seem to find the interest to replay 
 the game. Oh well. Ok this review isnt deep but I never meant it to be. I would never go so far 
 as to say its the best game ever but its right up there! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtleneck
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 16, 2004 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The Half-Life series lives on, and by far, this game surpasses its mighty predecessors. Half-Life 
 2 pits you in the orange suit once again, but now you're no longer Gordy, youthful aspiring scientist, 
 you are the older Gordom Freeman. And you have even less of an idea of what's going on.
  --?
  But that's part of the charm that the Half-Life Label implies will come with the game, and 
 so far, it's working damn well. Figuring out stuff in this game is done by you, the player, from 
 visual (and the occasional audio) cues recieve ingame like in the first.
  
  Before I go on: I ran this game with an AMD 1.99 ghz (translates to about 2.2,2.3 ghz for pentiums) , 
 and have 1.5g of DDR RAM. I have a GeForce FX 5200 128mb AGP card as well. And a monitor of some 
 sort.
  ... 
  And speakers.
  
  You begin on a train much like the first half-life, but now you're being whisked away to the arrivals 
 terminal of City 17, some nondescript Eastern European city. The game runs smoothly on my computer, 
 and the video and audio create a mood that puts you right behind Freeman's glasses. Prepare to 
 be awed by the sites of the city, but don't gawk for too long as the action begins right away. 
 Be ready to feel nervous, anxious, and finally marvelous (!) , as you quickly get accustomed to the 
 controls and are ready to make your way across the region. 
  
  The gameplay itself is beautifully run, and although you have that problem of AI OCCASIONALLY acting 
 a little stupid, that hasn't got in the way of my using AI teammates at all. The game is like a 
 theme park ride, with many highs, and a few exciting recessions in the action to pull out that 
 gravity gun of yours to do some tweaking with the environment. 
  
  Game inside the game:
  The physics engine in this game is unbelievable! The Hitman Series may have had ragdoll physics, 
 and Red Faction have ridiculous weaponry blowing chunks out of the scenery, but Half-Life 2 takes 
 it up a a few notches. If you want more, aside from the gravitational fun-gun, you can pull up your 
 sleeves and throw bottles at the guards the old-fashioned way, back before we had anything other 
 than the flashlight as our extra gear.
  
  Of course the guards will beat you then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooketh
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2004 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Theres a spoiler at the END of this review.. TY
  The game is VERY immersive and note this is for the HL2 only not CS SOURCE!
  The game is visualy 
 amazing... Lets all get that down because to date it and Doom 3 are just pitted against eachother 
 for graphics and this game looks to take it as the character models look amazing when they speak.
 
  While the Gameplay is amazing - i found some problems that really just bugged me from TIME to 
 TIME... example... Im trying to get through small taverns and crevices and these god damn boxes 
 and s*it get in the way and im tryin to pick em up and im bein shot - its a cluster !@$#.. But 
 on the other hand the guns handle extremely when and while the jumping is pretty loose and uncontrolled 
 the crouching makes for some nice realistic picking.
  The Sound is nice. The voice acting is AMAZING!! OMFG its so good. The music adds a nice touch 
 too but it doesnt come in "At that perfect time" like halo and halo 2's music ya know? The reason 
 why i gave sound a 9 is because i wasnt fond of the weapon sounds.. like when u reload the pistol 
 u can barely hear it - I want to hear every detail for everything in the sound since this game 
 has been in work for 6 years!
  The value gets an 8. While the game is good, if you exclude source (which I DO because they r completely 
 different games) it has little replay value. I can see going through it one and maybe once more 
 on hard but in order for it to get a 9 or 10 i want to go back to this game in a year and say w00t 
 - but i cant see myself doing that with all the competiition out there. It's hard to do yes but 
 it doesnt even have a multiplayer based off the HL2 singe playergame so...
  I tilt it a 9 simply because they did put in a lot of effort - u can tell by the amount of polish 
 - BUT it was a not a game worth 6 years. it looks like a 3 or 4 yr game. 
  Excellent game.. WHY THE !@$# arent u playing it!?
  
  Ive beaten the game and ending is... eh.... random... Its 
 hard to put ur thumb on
  
  Spoiler ahead ---
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The game pretty much ends with u destroying the teleporter thing in the citadel 
 with that guy that hates u so much in it and the tower starts falling and the black chick is like 
 ok nice job gordon now lets go we still have ti --------- and then the thing falls the world freezes 
 and that guy in the grey suite comes and talks to you for a bit - he EXPLAINS nothing and talks 
 fancy words about choice and offers he got on you... Then the credits roll..... Yea it sounds weird 
 i know but u have no idea what happens to any one so any idea of closure you thought u were ganna 
 get is non existant..... room for a half life 3 i guess
  so i mean the game is great fun but some of it gets REALLY repetive and the ending is weird.. not 
 bad.. just weird.... which is why i prefered halo 2 because that ending was a cliff hanger but it 
 let you know what to expect for the next halo --- 
  A lot of people complain about these types of endings but you have to remember that this is the 
 2nd game in a big franchise so expect and ending that cuts you off for the 3rd game- its just fact
 
  And the ending if really confusing if you hadn't beaten half life 1- which i havent had the pleasure 
 of yet because i cant stand the 1st one lol - its just so old... ok thnx for reading this guys you 
 can scroll down and get the closing statement
  
  
  
  It comes down to Doom3, FarCry, Halo2, and HalfLife 2 for best shooter of the year for me.
  Im 
 stuck between halo2 and hl2 but since half life has no multiplayer and a weird ending i really 
 have to go with halo 2 for the live and atleast a respective ending - but if u have no xbox for 
 that matter than u really cant do better than half life 2 - 
  Is half life 2 worth getting a good PC for or maybe gettin a 500 dollar graphics card for?
  The 
 answer is yes - Halflife 2, source, doom3, and farcry all need good PCs to run so you do get value 
 out of a 500 dollar card.
  As for source.. well.. thats another review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyDamnUsername
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 16, 2004 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I picked up my copy of HL2 from Gamespot Tuesday afternoon after work. Like Doom 3 I had a sudden 
 urge to turn right on Colonial Dr. toward Gamespot instead of left towards home. Rush hour traffic 
 on this street is a nightmare so my subconscious wanted this game badly for no reason I can explain. 
 I haven't been keeping track of it so there was no anticipation.
  
  I get home, feed the cats, then head to my office without changing into "home clothes". Opening 
 the box reveals 5 CD's, a quick reference quide, and some marketing pamphlet. The installation 
 goes without a hitch while I simultaneously download the latest GeForce Detonator driver set.
 
  
  After installing the drivers, rebooting, and disabling my McAfee my mouth waters as I double-click 
 the HL2 Icon. Up pops something called Steam. Whoops! Did I hit the wrong icon? I close this strange 
 Steam thing and double-click the HL2 icon again. Up pops steam again..... I have to register before 
 I can play. Ok, I guess it has come to this. I start the process of creating an account, and after 
 finally picking a user name that isn't taken I start getting "registration server not found" or 
 "server connection refused" errors. I fly out to the Sierra site to see if there are any bulletins. 
 A note posted tells me to keep trying. Ok, everyone that installed that afternoon, repeat after 
 me. "Ok-Back-Finish, OK-Back-Finish" how many times did you all do it? One of my cats jumps up 
 and lays on top of my monitor almost laughing at my frustration.
  
  The next morning I grab my coffee and head back to the office and was finally able to register 
 at 6 AM. Now begins the process of downloading and building the files needed to run the game. That 
 took 20 minutes and I have a fast machine. Ok now that I'm registered, I double click the HL2 Icon 
 again and Steam pops up again. I'm Steamed all right! It begins to update the game! Fortunately 
 this doesn't take too long. Oh shucks, time to go to work.
  
  I get home from work. Mailing envelope ready to send HL2 to Sierra for my refund I enter my office 
 and launch the game. Steam appears for a brief second apparently to mock me then HL2 starts!
  
  The game enviornment is very well done. Think Far Cry but instead of a pristine beautiful setting, 
 we have a grimy city slum with the same if not more level of detail. It is smooth in terms of detail 
 and speed. No chopping, Stuttering, just smooth gameplay. I'll put my machine specs at the end.
 
  
  The sound is good but not great. I guess for realism sake they decided to make you have to look 
 at the person talking to get a decent volume out of them. The cone is very tight and can be frustrating 
 when listening to people on both sides of you. One nice feature is that there is little music so 
 you don't get sick of the same notes over and over a la Wing Commander series.
  
  The actual gameplay is simple. I've played it quite a bit and 2 handguns, an automatic rifle, and 
 a crowbar isn't enough. The max ammo limit needs to be raised to 500. You will find yourself unable 
 to pick up more ammo yet running out quickly after you can no longer get back to it. The gravity 
 gun/sawblade combo is quite fun but a little awkward in tight spaces, but still a blast to mess 
 around with. The advancement puzzles are fun and do a great job of breaking up the run and gun 
 treadmill.
  
  I've only driven the airboat and it is justly loose in its handling. It is gliding on air, c'mon, 
 what do you expect?
  
  The AI is ok. Better than Battlefield 1942's but not the greatest. They use cover, but don't really 
 have much in the way of a self preservation instinct. You would think that if you saw someone pushing 
 a cart toward you as cover you might hop out of the gun emplacement and lob a couple grenades. 
 Oh well. Looks like we don't have to fear machines taking over the planet any time soon!
  
  The lack of any kind of objectives menu isn't missed since you can't wander too far from the script. 
 You are so tightly guided from the beginning that you can almost smell the cheese.
  
  I recommend playing this once the price drops into the high $30 range and they patch Steam out 
 of existence. To add insult to injury, you must also have any game CD in the drive while playing. 
 Apparently, being jacked-in to Steam isn't enough copy protection. Valve/Sierra/Vivendi is way 
 too paranoid over this game. The source code making its way onto the internet could happen to any 
 company. There is no need to over-react like this. I won't be buying another game by these companies. 
 I have yet to play this multiplayer mod that has been included in the game. I hear it's quite popular 
 with the kiddies. I'm not fond of the one life per round type of game.
  
  System Specs:
  Windows XP Professional SP2
  Intel D865PERL - P4 2.8 GHz HT 800MHz Bus.
  1 GB DDR400 RAM
 
  SB Audigy 1 with 2.1 Speakers
  NVidia GeForce 6800 GT / 256 MB RAM
  Optical Mouse
  17" Trinitron Monitor
  ATA-100 200GB 7200 RPM HDD
  16x DVD- 52x CD-ROM
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habitualthought
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 16, 2004 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game tests the full capability of your system!!. My P4 processer fan was the loudest I've 
 heard it and my ATI graphics card is finally getting to show what it can do.
  The game started me out at 800x600 resolution so obviously I wasn't blown away by the graphics 
 at first. I quickly switched it to 1024x768 and then began to really see the beauty of the source 
 engine. The Character's eyes reflected light and every surface was insanely detailed. Seems the 
 only thing the engine doesnt do extremely well is trees. No big deal since the trees look realistic 
 enough, and I got to play in the playground next to the tenements. The mary-go-round works the 
 same way a real one would.
  The physics engine is the most impressive part of the game and it is a doozy. Everything behaves 
 like it would in real life. I can't imagine how difficult it must have been to get everything working 
 as smoothy as it does. The game is linear but with alot of interactivity along the way. The story 
 is developing quite nicely so far (im about 3hours in) and the action is non-stop. The water looks 
 astounding and the Speed boat is easy to navigate.
  There is nothing on the market as technologically impressive and as immersive as Half-Life 2. Its 
 simple. If you want to see the future of PC gaming get this game ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grmuelle
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2004 7:34 pm PT
Review:  It's all here. Everything you waited for and more. This is without a doubt the most impressive 
 first person shooter of all time.
  
  The graphics are amazing. Some say that the shading in Doom 3 is better, perhaps. But the immersion 
 that the Half-Life genre is known for is back in a big way. The character acting is the most believable 
 I've ever seen in a game, and this is definitely helped by all of the attention Valve put into 
 facial expressions. One thing that not many seem to mention is the attention to detail that went 
 into making all of the textures. Wow. Everything looks appropriately aged, rusted, etc. You don't 
 run into the same tired models time and time again.
  
  The sound is even better than the graphics, and that's saying quite a bit. There's a bit of nostalgia 
 here of course, but you can't imagine the giddy feeling you're going to have when you hear the 
 Valve jingle the first time. In the game, sounds are appropriately placed. If someone is talking 
 to you behind you and you have an even reasonably decent sound system, you'll know they're behind 
 you and you should probably turn around. Likewise for monsters and the like, you'll have a pretty 
 good idea of where they are. But the best part is definitely the soundtrack. At appropriate places 
 throughout the game, you'll suddenly start hearing music, which basically tells you that you're 
 going to be badass in the next 30 seconds. Or hell, at least you'll feel badass.
  
  The only mark down I could give it is due to the gameplay. It's still at a 9, it's definitely top 
 notch. Half-Life 2 tries to put a lot of items in your environment that you can use (to throw, 
 to crouch behind, to blow up, etc.) , and I find that this can frequently just get in your way. 
 Sometimes it's supposed to, but other times you'll have a pallet on the ground (flat on the ground 
 where you can't see it) and Gordon just won't step over it, you end up pushing it away or jumping 
 once you find it.
  
  This is really no fault of Half Life 2, because we just don't have the interfaces to our systems 
 to be able to have good peripheral vision. Perhaps I'm just trying to share my frustration with 
 the community in hoping that someone will develop VR kits that are actually well made and affordable. 
 (Please!)
  
  Also, due to the variety of environments and the amazing number of ways that 'physics just happens', 
 you can (although not very often) find yourself in places where you're just stuck. This has happened 
 to me maybe 3 or 4 times, all but one of which I was eventually able to find a way out by doing 
 crouch jumps and a bunch of fancy footwork.
  
  I share the view that the game seems to be a little too easy. I'm playing on Normal mode and I've 
 gotten fairly far without dying once, my first time through. I guess I should be proud of that 
 achievement, but I know I'm not that good. :-)
  
  Even after those (extremely slight) criticisms, this has already made it into my top 3 favorite 
 games of all time. I hope you enjoy it too, I can't recommend it enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nugsolot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2004 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics look amazing and somthing more important the story has drawn me into the game in a 
 way an FPS hasnt done in a long time. Great Game worth the wait for quality software like this. 
 The brought in key elements in the game to make it more involving. The idea that you pick up most 
 any objest in the game, if it is small enough for you to do so andmove them, you have complete 
 control over the envirenment. Which looks great, and alsmost lifelike, with the graphics turned 
 up really high. I got the game free with my video card and have been waiting for it patientinly 
 from Steam, today was a great morning woke up and had halflife 2 installed and ready to play, great 
 game , also like CounterStrike, nut I wont be playing that for a while, i'll be in city 17..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eurbanator
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 16, 2004 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I played the first hour... and I would have no problem playing it again, and again, and again. 
 It's just incredible. The characters look at you when they're talking to you! No matter how important 
 they are, they will follow you with their eyes, it's pretty amazing... and eerie. Too Real. Some 
 parts It is hard to hear what people are saying because of all of the ambient noise. The ambient 
 noise is incredible and engaging in itself though. Bodies aren't stiff, they have a life like wiggle 
 to them. The physics are like no other game ever. It's ground breaking. One other thing that bothers 
 me just a little is that you can't shoot the innocents. Bullets will go right through them. Maybe 
 it was just for the one that I tried it on.. I'll find out later. Go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 137
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2004 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I woke up this morning to a splash screen on my computer that said... 
  
  HL 2.... now playing.
  
  I was giddy with excitement to say the least. I dont even have the 
 best system for this game as I have been anxiously awaiting this release. I have also anxiously 
 awaited some money to build a new machine. 
  
  Suffice to say the game runs fine on my machine in a 1024x768 with medium settings. 
  I am running 
 an ecs motherboard so old it would make baby jesus cry. 
  System
  AMD 1.6 DURON
  256 megs of no name pc2700. 
  200 gig western digital caviar drive. 
  64MB Raedon 8500 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2004 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Well the wait is over HL2 is now available. So all the doubters and people that said this game 
 would never come out or that it would be a flop are in for a scare.....
  
  Half Life 2 starts you off in City 17 a quiet, city at the moment. With civil rights at there lowest. 
 Civilians seem to be scared and uncertain of there future and saftey, which gives you the same 
 feeling as yo ugo around talking to each of them. So appear sad, others paranoid about trains that 
 come in with people but depart with no one on it. This sets the stage, as you walk through the 
 city trying to piece together what has happened since the last Half Life...... and theres some pretty 
 obvious changes..
  
  HL2's physics is where it really shines, being able to pick up every object that you normally could 
 in "real" life adds a realistic feel to the game. You can pick up cans, bottle crates, or rip a 
 phone from a payphone and throw these at people or guards and listen there reaction.... or run before 
 the guard beats you. But believe me you can use physics to your advantage in more important ways 
 later on.
  
  The graphics make the enviroments really life like, alot more so then Doom 3 i found. As HL2's 
 textures are easier to distinguish whereas Doom 3's where buffed over with shine and bump mapping. 
 When you first ride in on the train you'll see what i mean by great graphics, everything is smooth 
 and polished well. And the physics go hand in hand to make this combo even better. 
  
  Physics later in the game takes up a huge part of how your going to survive or how creative you 
 can be with the objects laying around. Using the enviroment to your advantage is what makes HL2 
 so entertaining and in my view it's the first game to advantage of phyics to the fullest in a game. 
 Which will have many games following this interactivity in the future. Just for that alone it's 
 revolutionary. As little a step as it seems now, this is the direction that fps will be going for 
 in the future, a great emphasis on being able to interact with the enviroment. HL2 pulls it off 
 perfect.
  
  The sound in the game is great, all the clanks and bangs of things being thrown around, guns and 
 explosions have that umf to them that Doom 3 lacked. The sound as usual from Valve is spot on, 
 no complaints there at all. The thing that caught my eye the most was the level of detail with 
 the voices being in perfect sink with mouth movements. Valve did an unbelievable job of making 
 characters voice and mouth match. You'll see what i mean the moment you begin your campaign. Usually 
 im not harsh on sound for a game because sound is for the most part always good in every game. 
 Mostly because its an important part. But HL2's use of voice and mouth motion working together 
 perfect is to much to pass up, therefore it deserves a 10.
  
  Overall the game pushed the envelop of a standard first person shooter and is a worthy sequel to 
 HL1. Its addition of phyics shows where first person shooters are headed in the future, as being 
 able to react with the enviroment is key. Half Life 2 is no letdown and you will enjoy this game 
 no question. You may even go through it a few times, its just that fun with the addition of physics, 
 the game has some good replayability.
  
  Half Life 2 is a game that you should not miss out on, if your computer can handle it and your 
 over the requirements then dont miss out on this instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IokesI
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2004 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Dissapointed by the GS review? - don't be.
  
  The game is simply astounding. It sets a benchmark in physical gameplay, next-gen graphics and 
 atmosphere.
  
  The atmosphere in the game is just mind blowing. The A. I. is actually very good, don't listen to 
 the rumours of it being "crap". It's as competent as it gets.
  
  The story is actually very good, and the ending is.... enigmatic.
  
  Simply put - hl2 is a must 
 buy, product.
  
  This is not only the best PC FPS since hl, but it is "THE" best pc fps to date.
  
  Amazing 
 technology, the source engine writes a chapter for the furture for gaming. You have to buy this 
 game.
  
  The game includes cobbled together DM, that while may feel rushed, is actually quite fun and has 
 astounding possibilites. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
