-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Half-Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halflife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.4
Critic Score: 9.4, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 12,379 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Valve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 1998 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Half-Life is the closest thing to a revolutionary step the genre has ever taken. 

 A major goal in any game is to create the illusion of reality, a fact that is especially true for 
 first-person shooters. The whole point of the genre is to put you, literally, in the role of the 
 protagonist. In light of this, it's surprising that so many games have stuck to a blueprint that 
 breaks the illusion at every possible opportunity, with text-based mission briefings, jarring level 
 transitions, and weapons and power-ups scattered around like decorative furniture. But Valve Software 
 has obviously spent a lot of time studying the mistakes of the past. The result is Half-Life, the 
 closest thing to a revolutionary step the genre has ever taken. Through a series of subtle and 
 artistic design decisions, Half-Life creates a reality that is self-contained, believable, and 
 thoroughly engaging. And while it may be surprising that no game has utilized any of these ideas 
 in the past, it's clear that any future shooter will be remiss to overlook them.  

 The plot of the game is typical (in fact, it's little more than an elaborate version of Doom) . You 
 are Gordon Freeman, scientist at the Black Mesa Research Facility, involved in some mysterious 
 experiments. These experiments go awry, and foul creatures begin taking over the complex. It gets 
 more complicated, but there's no need to ruin the surprises that await. Suffice it to say that 
 Half-Life isn't a great game because of its story; it's a great game because of how it presents 
 that story. From the opening moments of the game to the final showdown (and even beyond) all hell 
 is continually breaking loose, and there is never a moment where you are not seeing things through 
 Freeman's eyes. There are scripted events in the game. There are opening and closing scenes. But 
 they all occur naturally within the game environment. It may sound simple, but it goes a long way 
 toward helping create a believable world.  

 Weapon, ammunition, and health placement follows the same philosophy. You'll hardly ever come across 
 an item that is just bobbing and spinning in place like some gift from the heavens. Valve has done 
 a good job of justifying the typical health and armor meters. Freeman is wearing a hazard suit, 
 used by researchers involved in dangerous experiments. To regain health and armor energy, you must 
 fill up at power stations. These are almost always located in logical places, usually near areas 
 where dangerous work would be performed. There are no power-ups to be found. Weapons and ammo are 
 taken from supply closets or the corpses of fallen security guards and soldiers. Even the more 
 experimental weapons have their proper place - in the weapons research department of the facility. 
 And late in the game, once you've left the research facility, the supply of ammo and first aid 
 kits is believably scarce.  

 There are no levels in Half-Life, or, more specifically, it lacks the concept of levels and episodes 
 we've come to expect. The game is a continual stream of locations from beginning to end. You can 
 move back and forth at will (with only a few exceptions) , as can those who are pursuing you. And 
 though the brief loading time between zones is the one artifact that breaks the flow of the game, 
 the transitions are thankfully brief.  

 The attention to detail doesn't just stop with the basic structure. The game is full of surprises, 
 continually throwing new obstacles and challenges in your path. There is a wide variety of textures, 
 lending a distinct look to every area. The numerous scripted events bolster the illusion of reality, 
 and you'll come across detailed scenes that are continually suspenseful. The gameplay is very puzzle-oriented, 
 but the puzzles hardly seem to be superficial obstacles. Whether you're repairing a reactor or 
 finding some way to dispose of a massive locked door, the puzzles always seem plausible in the 
 world Valve has created.  

 The alien enemies are well designed and occasionally border on the terrifying. From the basic headcrab 
 (which resembles a cross between Alien's facehugger and X-COM Apocalypse's brainsucker) to monstrosities 
 a hundred times its size, the enemies truly look like organic beings. There are human enemies in 
 the game, and these display a level of artificial intelligence that is remarkable. While many a 
 game's idea of excellent AI is simply monsters that can make it through a doorway to follow you, 
 Half-Life's antagonists act in a manner that is frighteningly realistic. They won't follow you 
 through a doorway - they'll just lob a few grenades to where you're hiding and be done with it. 
   

 The weapons look and sound great, ranging from the realistic combat shotguns and grenade launchers, 
 to the science-fictional, high-powered particle accelerators. The level design is diverse (owing 
 a nod of thanks to Jedi Knight) , including the expansive research facility, some great outdoor 
 areas, and foreign locales that are best left to be discovered on your own. Suffice to say, it 
 never gets repetitive.  

 The only problems with Half-Life are the results of it being so ambitious. The fact that all of 
 the humans in the game look like clones takes from the otherwise realistic atmosphere. The diversity 
 of the levels and puzzles will undoubtedly leave you thinking some areas were better than others. 
 But complaints that arise are simply a reaction to the fact that the game is so close to ideal. 
 Half-Life is an exceptional single-player game and a solid multiplayer game (though the upcoming 
 Team Fortress add-on may make it even better) . It takes the tried-and-true one step further but 
 ends up leaps and bounds ahead of the rest.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (338 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: acxler8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I had many games on my PC when I installed Half-Life for the first time in 2008. After having had 
 played its first few levels, I gladly uninstalled most of my other games to save disk space and 
 improve performance, and never looked back.
  
  For, Half-Life is nothing short of a classic that single-handedly revolutionized the first-person 
 experience in gaming. As a theoretical physicist, the player is thrust into a believably hostile 
 atmosphere - brilliantly designed levels and amazing scripted events that enhance the level of 
 immersion. The 'resonance cascade' in the initial stages can be safely regarded as one of the most 
 powerful moments in video gaming.
  
  GAMEPLAY : The gameplay is as solid as it can be - almost flawless NPC interaction, easy weapon 
 selection mechanism and highly responsive controls. One of its highlights is the artificial intelligence, 
 which is a benchmark even by today's standards, after 11 years. The human enemies show unbelievable 
 coordination tactics - when in a group, some of them will divert your attention, while others hurl 
 or launch grenades at you. These tactics are showcased better in the form of human vs. alien fights, 
 in later stages.
  However, the last levels in the alien world are bluntly designed, featuring jumping puzzles that 
 are not fun at all.
  SOUND : Although there is minimal music, it also scores heavily in terms of sound. Gun shots sound 
 meaty and realistic, especially those of the sub-machinegun. Music starts playing at some points 
 to indicate a heavy gun-battle up ahead.
  
  GRAPHICS : Obviously they are out-dated by today's standards. But back in those times, it was one 
 of the best looking games for the PC.
  
  STORY : The intermediate levels are about escaping from the Black Mesa facility, but their reference 
 to the CORE story of the Half-Life series is non-existent. The ending is quite interesting, leaving 
 a lot of plot points open to speculation.
  
  Overall, this game deserves its status as one of the greatest games ever made. This game is more 
 than just killing minions and fighting bosses (although there is a final boss, which is unfortunately 
 pretty weak) - even if you've played it several times, you never get bored of pushing the trolley 
 into the beam, and witnessing that dreaded cascade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wreckem406
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Half-life. What can one say after just over a decade? Well for starters, how about wow? Even 
 after ten years Half-life holds up to the hype it has generated and you can see why this game started 
 a computer FPS legacy that today includes the massively popular Counterstrike, and Team Fortress 
 games, in addition to the sequels and expansions to Half-life itself.
  
  Half-life is a game revolving around one character, Gordon Freeman, the protagonist's point of 
 view. What this game does differently and may I say excellently is that throughout the course of 
 the game you retain complete control of Dr. Freeman. Freeman is a new and promising theoretical 
 physicist hired by Black Mesa, who has recently developed a portal system that could be useful 
 to the US army. Only soon into an early workday things go terribly wrong, cross-dimensional portals 
 open up and soon Freeman finds himself in a fight for his life, and possibly the fate of the human 
 race.
  
  These aliens coming from another world named Xen. Come in many different forms, you'll run into 
 ones that shoot electricity from their hands, ones that latch onto a humans' head and turn them 
 into a zombie-like creature under the parasites control, to Giant hulking Creatures that take missile 
 runs from the Army to take down.
  
  It is in this setting that Freeman finds out a troop of elite marines have been sent to quiet the 
 Black Mesa facility and cover up all that has happened; much to Freeman's displeasure this includes 
 the wholesale slaughter of his fellow scientists and Black Mesa security guards.
  
  The game controls surprisingly well, and features a nice array of puzzles that will require not 
 only quick footwork but also a capacity to think around a problem and come to an intelligent and 
 decisive course of action. Freeman starts off with a crowbar as his only weapon and soon picks 
 up weapons ranging from a small pistol to a giant gun that shoots electricity and will annihilate 
 any life form within seconds.
  
  Half-life does a great job of immersing you in the game, health is gained from dispensers placed 
 around the facility and/or first aid kits, dropped from other dead scientists or found in crates. 
 However there isn't so much that one can run willy-nilly through a level blasting away with the 
 assault rifle and expect to just heal up at the end. Rather you'll find yourself thinking strategically, 
 planning which enemies to take out first and how to take them out so as to aid you further on in 
 the level.
  
  The enemy AI is remarkable, they respond not only to your actions but seem to change their plan 
 off attack based on how many of them there are what weapons they have and how you have been attacking 
 them in this fight, very advanced for its time. This great feature really allows you to replay 
 either certain fights or the whole game to try and get through it with more health, so as to help 
 make the next one that much easier.
  
  Half-life, to add to its sense of immersion doesn't have individual levels but rather a small caption 
 will appear on the screen stating that the next portion of the game has started. The fairly frequent 
 loading times throughout the game often occur as you're walking down a hallway but are generally 
 only a fraction of a second and don't detract from the gameplay all that much.
  
  Despite a few slowdowns and some buggy moments Half-life's good moments still manage to outshine 
 the few annoying moments, and even after all these years it's evident that Valve truly put out 
 a great product that's worth every bit of praise heaped upon it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  "Catch me later I will buy you a beer!" - Barney Calhoun
  
  You are Gordon Freeman, 27, and you have accepted a job in Black Mesa Research Facility, Texas 
 by the telephone and some time later you're on the train waiting for it finally stop just to get 
 out and be on your way to the Test Chamber. Gordon was instructed to take on an HEV suit for safety 
 and research various Anomalous Materials. Black Mesa Research Facility is top secret so Gordon 
 Freeman will be instructed to actually live there... well, that will not happen. Gordon Freeman's 
 MIT education will be greatly valued in Black Mesa by pressing a button and pushing the cart... 
 which will result in great slaughter of our poor scientists, but he will then arise a hero... for 
 some reason.
  
  The Story:
  The Good: One of the first voice acting in FPS, you get an idea of what's happening very fast, 
 great characters (G-man especially) , great connection to it's sequel (Half-life 2) , scared scientists (not 
 a big factor) , great ending.
  The Bad: Nothing.
  
  The Gameplay: 
  The Good: Headshot Factor, You can kill scientists if you would like to, realistics health/ammo (no 
 floating crap) , reload (not a big factor) , Very Good multiplayer with Great multiplayer mods (CS 
 and TF-classic) , Good AI, Very nice Puzzles, cool soundtrack.
  The Bad: Slight mouse free-look problems. (Dunno why, I am playing on Steam-version.) Long Intro.
 
  
  The Graphics: 
  The Good: Realistic Outdoors, Realistic Power-ups (see in Gameplay) , Great level-design, No graphic 
 glitches,
  The Bad: None.
  
  Overall: Half-life is revolutionary with it's compelling and believable story and great gameplay. 
 Truly the best FPS ever created and it deserves a 10. It has a great ending that leaves us with 
 questions and a crave for more that we will surely get in Half-life 2. Great multiplayer with mods 
 like Team-Fortress Class and Counter-Strike. You will surely remember this game for time to come, 
 and we love Valve for creating numerous sequels...
  
  Score: Gameplay - 9.8 Overall Score = 99.5%
  Story - 10+
  Graphics - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  One Of The Best PC Games Ever To Be Made.... In HALF LIFE You Play As MIT Graduate Gordan Freeman 
 and after resonance cascade aliens teleport from Xen And it's you against the world. The story 
 if u ask me is quite remarkable as it plays out. Another Thing That Is Great About Is Just How 
 It Plays it just plays fantastic. Now graphics back then looked good but now I won't judge. The 
 game is just remarkable and you'll be hooked on it. Now if I were to compare the original to the 
 HD pack I would choose the original because the weapons are a lot more comfortable to use. So basically 
 Half Life is truly one of the most groundbreaking games of all time! And It's a must play no matter 
 what type of game your into. Now like I said still an awesome game today and a whole bunch of awesome 
 mods to go with it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvuti12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  Half life 1 at first seems your typical shooter, you get a lot of diffrent and creative weapons 
 and you fight aliens and HECU soldiers who want to sabotage the facility. But it actually has depth 
 by making a good and mysterious story.
  
  You play as black mesa facility scientist named Gordon Freeman, you arrive late to your work. Everyone 
 in black mesa seem to be talking about the experiment what is testing an mysterious crysital from 
 unknown place. As you expected, everything goes to hell, experiment failed, aliens from XEN world 
 are released to world and HECU marines are sent in to sabotage the experiment and a mysterious 
 man with an suit and an briefcase keeps on watching you.
  
  If you haven't played half life before, then there are many reasons why you should. Great creative 
 weapons, good gameplay, advanced AI, a lot of great mods what extend the replay value and you can 
 get to understand the later series (half lfie 2) story a lot better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Half-life may be very old, but as they say, the older wine is the better one. Despite its age, 
 this game offers tons of realism, which is contained and serious.
  
  You take the role of Gordon Freeman, a scientist of B. M. R. F. who was working in some experiements 
 which escaped the lab and roam destroying everything and everyone. The story is very good, while 
 the introduction gets you right into action. Everything is realistic in Half-life. Health and weapons 
 advance only when you get to particular places: they are not dropped from the heavens. There are 
 also weapons which bears great resemblance to their respective real ones, while the creatures and 
 monsters you fight are coming from a solid concept art and are fully-detailed. Furthermore, the 
 concept of levels simply does not exist. The game uses a free environment, more similar to RPG 
 games or at least tactical shooters. That's where the difference between other games is.
  
  Half-Life is a game ahead of its times, while it uses the sane recipe and ingredients as every 
 game. There is no doubt that Half-Life is a game not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  The Good: Game holds up 10 years later, one of the best told stories in gaming history, a lot of 
 memorable moments, tons of mods available
  
  The Bad: Graphics look hideous these days, newer gamers will hate this due to all the flaws that 
 stick out, to many "mazy" levels
  
  Man O' man does this bring back a lot of good memories. I remember almost dying because my mom's 
 computer couldn't run HL1. I begged her to get the computer upgraded (at the time not even knowing 
 how this was possible or the cost) she just wouldn't do it. All I could do was stare at videos 
 and screenshots until I thought would be forever *da-da-da!* until I heard about the PS2 port! 
 I was so excited I babysat my bratty sisters for a whole summer and laid down $200 smackeroonies 
 on a used PS2, but to my luck HL was no where to be seen. It turns out not many copies of the game 
 were made so they were scarce. Settling with a rental I finally was able to play the game, but 
 it was starting to feel old because I didn't get ahold of it until late 2003. Realizing that I 
 was missing out on a lot AT THE TIME I wound up losing my save and being so angry never touched 
 the game again. Four years later I can finally play the game again thanks to Steam (I actually 
 ordered the HL1 Anthology off of EBgames for $20) and I DEFINITELY realized what I missed now that 
 I have finally been able to finish the game.
  
  Half-Life used the Quake II engine at the time which was fighting against the Unreal engine technically. 
 While Half-Life never looked as good as Unreal Valve pulled some strings and did some custom stuff 
 with the physics, water, and lighting effects that wasn't originally in the Q2 engine. HL isn't 
 just your regular run & gun shooter the story is told all in real time by running into certain 
 characters and by just progressing you get an idea of what's going on without much dialog. This 
 was revolutionary at the time and so were the weapons, graphics, sound, physics, and enemies. The 
 game has your usual weapons like machine guns with grenade launchers, pistols, revolvers etc. but 
 HL has some weapons up it's sleeve that were never seen before. Those such weapons happen to be 
 a laser guided rocket launcher (you guide it with your mouse!) I remember people buzzing about 
 this weapons back in the day and it's still pretty cool. You also have the Bee Gun which is a weird 
 slimy thing that shoots killer bees, you have some strange electricity guns, mines, laser mines, 
 satchel charges etc.
  
  The enemies were also something never seen before like the Head Crabs, Head Crab Zombies, the Ichthyosaur, 
 the Vortigaunts etc. The game also had HUGE bosses which was amazing back in the day and seemed 
 very epic. The game was dark, creepy, and very hard as well. Most shooters back in the late 90's 
 were just run & gun nonsense in dark tunnels, military complexes etc. Half-Life is not innocent 
 and does do this, but there are other places to see like climbing a HUGE canyon and looking out 
 over the *ugly* vista that looks like the Grand Canyon. Today it looks like someone slapped a low-res 
 JPEG image in the background, but in the late 90's things like this seemed like you were staring 
 over a GrindLift in Gears of War 2. Half-Life was just so real and so amazing back in it's day 
 that it really kind of shocks you how such an old game can still make that kind of impact.
  
  The game also consists of a lot of maze like halls that you can get easily lost in and I found 
 this the main problem with HL. Some of the puzzles were a bit confusing to do and navigating the 
 endless halls calls for a much needed walkthrough. While the level design is excellent and you 
 pretty much know where to go there are those occasional moments that make you wander around the 
 whole area a few times and look in every nook and cranny wondering what switch you missed or what 
 do you need to go through. Some neat things back in the day was being able to have the Blue Shift 
 men help you and ask scientists to open doors for you. While this is standard these days this kind 
 of AI was unknown to the late 90's PC gamers. This added to the realism and made you fee like you 
 really are stuck in Black Mesa trying to fight off the alien invasion.
  
  You're probably wondering what the story is right? Well it's simple really, Gordan Freeman (that's 
 you) arrives in Anomalous Hazards as a regular employee and an experiment goes awry and Gordan 
 must escape the facility and figure out the source of the alien invasion. The story, as I've already 
 said, isn't told through cut scenes, but rather in real time while you play. This helps add to 
 the experience, but of course may bore most younger PC gamers who are used to FEAR, Crysis, CoD 
 etc. Half-Life is for the hardcore old school PC shooter fans only and really takes cunning skill 
 to finish. The game will give you less and less health as you go and you'll have to figure out 
 how to take out a room of 10 bad guys with only 2 health. While this isn't impossible it can be 
 done and requires precise skill (thus only for hardcore fans) .
  
  Most of you have probably played HL2 already and these games are pretty much completely different 
 besides the content. You still have your hazard suit, most of the weapons are the same, but there 
 is more stuff in HL1. About 40% of the weapons and enemies in HL1 aren't in HL2. HL2 is more realistic 
 while HL1 is more of a sci-fi type game. Thankfully you can play HL2 without even touching HL1 
 (which I did) , but HL1 explains a lot of things that aren't explained in HL2 and there are bits 
 in HL2 that are for fans of HL1 that you normally wouldn't know about unless you played this game.
 
  
  Now of course HL1 has a lot of flaws like floaty physics, being able to run 100mph, cheap deaths, 
 poor graphics but these are flaws seen from age. If you were to warp back to 1998 the game was 
 almost flawless. Now when it comes to upgrades and mods there is an endless ocean. There are a 
 ton of amazing multiplayer and singe player mods available and I have spend hours and hours on 
 most of them. You must go to FilePlanet. com and download these mods because they are super fun. 
 HL1 also has a free hi-def pack that you can download to update the graphics a little bit. If you 
 want to go even further pick up Half-Life: Source which uses HL2's engine to make things look more 
 modern. I highly recommend the Source version for people who just can't stand "old graphics", but 
 old school shooter fan should just get the hi-def pack just for nostalgia's sake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I have a few select memories I will cherish forever. Most of them are common experiences everyone's 
 had: their first kiss, a special moment, whatever the case may be. There's a single memory in that 
 whole bunch that makes my eyes glaze over with nostalgia more than the others. One weekend I went 
 up to my dad's, I installed Half-Life 1 on his terrible old machine, and I played it straight through. 
 It is one of the best weekends I've ever had.
  
  Despite its minor flaws. Half-Life stands up even today, ten years after its release. It may not 
 look the part, and many of its puzzles and design concepts are outdated, but that doesn't diminish 
 its significance at all; in fact, they just make the best parts shine even brighter. There are 
 few modern games that can match the polish and brilliance of Half-Life 1, because as a package 
 the game is simply phenomenal. It changed the way that I  and the entire industry, for that matter 
 - looked at video games.
  
  You could go beyond the actual game itself and talk about simply the excellence that surrounded 
 it at the time and you'd have a review by itself; Counter-Strike and various other mods made the 
 whole "Doom WAD" concept as relatively mainstream as the PC platform was ever going to get. But 
 we can't ignore the game, either, or its legacy and impact on games since its release.
  
  The game starts in a monorail. The game ends in a monorail. But by the end of it, the player has 
 experienced a scientific disaster, an army takeover, an alien-government shootout, and traveled 
 to another dimension. By the end of the game the player has battled with headcrabs and helicopters, 
 saved scientists and launched missiles. And this is not Gordon Freeman experiencing this; it's 
 the player. The player is doing these things. The player is Gordon Freeman. What makes Half-Life 
 so impressive and compelling beyond the action sequences is that focus and sense of being in this 
 world where anything could happen.
  
  I came into the game a complete virgin, in the sense that I didn't know anything about Half-Life 
 beside the fact that I wanted to play it. I follow the games instructions, and then  chaos. Everything 
 turns into a nightmare. I step over dead bodies, dodge tentacles, and crawl beneath lasers. Even 
 on the easiest setting it was a fight for me to survive in this dangerous world. And what blew 
 me away was that the game didn't snap to a cut-scene to show me all of this; it used the game's 
 own logic to tell a story. Everything is from the first person view.
  
  The game is definitely hard, and sometimes unfairly hard. The first time I played it I was forced 
 to cheat several times (No-Clip and God mode, anyone?) , especially during the ridiculous jumping 
 puzzles. Thankfully Valve learned their lesson and never tried that one again. But when we're discussing 
 the more typical puzzles and battle sequences, the game never becomes unfair; it's always a matter 
 of learning the system and surviving. That's the point of the game to begin with, anyway.
  
  The AI was fantastic, and I'm inclined to say it still is. The marines will strafe around you, 
 take cover, and throw grenades. Those guys were devilishly hard, and the game threw them out by 
 the pack. But it was all fun to try out and mess with, because all of it felt so dynamic and playful 
 at the same time. It was always a place to try new ideas to pass to the next room or overcome the 
 obstacle, and trying to affect the situation is such a way that you can get by alive. One of the 
 more curious sections of the game was watching a squad of marines battle an army of aliens; never 
 before had I seen not only AI that could handle such situations, but also a game development cycle 
 that was open ended enough to allow that to happen.
  
  "Open-ended" was never a good way to describe Half-Life (especially the sequel) but it uses a feeling 
 of exploration as a key motivator to get the player moving. The game was unique in the way that 
 it melded the old LucasArts text adventures with the new-fangled FPS genre, creating a new breed 
 of shooter that used more brain power that the typical Doom clone of the time. A player passes 
 a room and gets to watch a scientist get attacked by a headcrab. It may be just basic scripting, 
 but that certainly doesn't make it any less compelling.
  
  The variety of environments are a factor as well. While a lot of the game takes place underground 
 in Black Mesa, there were still a lot of different areas that showed off what Half-Life could do. 
 Who can forget the battle with the helicopter? How about sneaking past the tentacle beast? Every 
 experience is so terribly iconic, and what they existed in has a lot to do with it. The helicopter 
 section couldn't have worked without a very open portion of the map.
  
  The game isn't perfect; no game is. The last few levels of the game are the weakest, even though 
 the player has been looking forward to seeing it the entire game. The first half-hour offers a 
 very fast glimpse of Xen, but when the player gets there it's a little hard to navigate, and the 
 overabundance of difficult jumping puzzles gets in the way of what would have been a very interesting 
 level. That's not to say it wasn't (it looked really, really cool) but I very much doubt anyone 
 actually enjoyed battling the final boss, a. k. a. the floating crap in the jar. Much too irritating.
 
  
  Still, consider what it gave to gaming in general. It showed how to tell a basic story in a way 
 that will interest people. Voice acting, and good voice acting, is key to making a story resonate. 
 Don't rely on cutscenes to say everything (even though games still try to) . Give a game good AI 
 and they'll be playing it forever. Arguably it wasn't until Halo made FPS work on consoles that 
 any of this become really widespread, but Half-Life was the one that really spurred it all along.
 
  
  Half-Life didn't invent any of this stuff, just to be sure. System Shock 1 and Marathon both had 
 excellent stories, and Half-Life took many elements from their game design. But in the process 
 Half-Life made it big-budget and in that found its own identity. Half-Life is such an iconic and 
 well respected game even ten years later, and its game design still holds up.
  
  When I beat that floating crap in the jar, I was amazed. I beat Half-Life. For one of the first 
 times in playing a video game, I didn't feel happy when I beat it. I was sad. I didn't wanted it 
 to end. This game is the only one to accomplish that emotion within me, and it's odd that this 
 game is the one. Half-Life 2 came along eventually, and blew me away all over again, but it was 
 a different game. We still never really have gotten another Half-Life 1. We probably never will.
 
  
  We have to cherish what we have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthNader26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Even after 10 years, this game remains the single greatest FPS ever made. Sure, plenty of games 
 have improved on aspects of Half Life, but Half Life defined the genre. Just as Doom created FPS 
 games, Half Life made them good. The story, the multiplayer, the immersion are absolutely incredible. 
 Everything is presented beautifully, and the simple fact that Valve has continued to update it 
 to this day speaks for it's longevity (to put it into perspective, it supports full 1600x1080 widescreen 
 resoloutions. On a 10 year old game. You heard me) . 
  
  Plus, for the cost of one bargain-bin game, you get access to the hundreds of mods released for 
 it in the past decade, including the original Counter Strike and Team Fortress.
  
  Suffice to say, this game is a legend, and for good purpose. Playing through it is like going through 
 the Louvre of video games. You can feel the history and influence oozing off of the game. Simply 
 put, it leaves you awestruck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buchsbaumy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  From 1996-2001 I played one game. C&C Red Alert. In college in 2002 I found my first FPS game, 
 and Half Life would revolutionize the gaming industry as we know FPS's today. 
  
  Story Line - The story line is by far the best single player FPS in history. And the story is not 
 yet complete even now. Its expansions are all worth playing at least once (hl is worth about 1 
 go through per year?) .
  
  
  Multi-player - After you master Half-Life multiplayer, there is no need to ever play any other 
 FPS multi player ever again. Nothing the CoD series, or any other for that matter, could ever give 
 the players more skill options than the mix of tau and high-jump that Half-Life has. I still put 
 in 3-5 months of multi a year, just to compete with the other nasty 10 year vets who still player 
 daily. To even get a fast snipe in , you have to hook/ tau yourself clear across any map. Mastering 
 this will make you the best FPS player in any game that is released from here til all eternity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  Half-Life remains in the top 3 in my mental list of "best games evar". Its completely stood the 
 test of time, just like a brilliant musical piece or a beautiful painting. Nomatter who you are, 
 or how much you enjoy these types of games, you can't play (or watch someone else play) this game 
 without being awed.
  
  Half-Life is a game about a theoretical physicist called Gordon Freeman, who's late for work one 
 day. You take control of Gordon as he rides on the tram into the depths of the top secret research 
 facility in which he works, once the doors open and you're allowed to move around, everyone is 
 telling you to hurry to the Test Chamber because you're late for the experiment. The experiment 
 goes wrong, you pick up a crowbar; and from that point onward you'll be bashing zombies over the 
 head, shooting aliens, taking cover from soldiers, and being followed by a shifty looking man in 
 a blue suit.
  
  Although some of that is pretty original, when I put it into a paragraph it doesn't sound like 
 the most spectacular storywriting ever, right?. Theres nothing particularly great about the story 
 in Half-Life (or its sequel) . But everything feels so compelling, and I really care about everything 
 thats going on. The story might not be THAT good on its own, but because of the way its portrayed 
 there is certainly an illusion that it is.
  
  So on to the juicy combat - Its all seamless and fast paced. Your adrenaline will be pumping and 
 your heart racing. Theres a good selection of weapons to pick from, the crowbar being the star 
 just because its become the trademark weapon of the Half-Life series. There are two side arm weapons, 
 a machine gun and shotgun, a crossbow (another kind-of trademark weapon) , grenades, some space-agey 
 weapons, and an organic alien weapon that shoots bees. You can also pick up some trip mines to 
 place on walls. The weapons are all great fun to use and most of them pack a punch. One of the 
 two let downs in the combat area is the fact that your friendly AI is slightly retarded. They get 
 stuck on things if they're following you, they dont put up any kind of a fight, and some of them 
 get scared easilly and bugger off to god-knows where. The other let down is that the game doesn't 
 use any kind of physics for when enemies die, so we have death animations instead. This can of 
 course be put down to age, but it still sucks! (fixed if you get Half-Life: Source instead)
  
  Though a lot of the environments are greys and silvers, with the game being set in a scientific 
 research facility, there are enough primary colours thrown in there, and enough exciting indoor 
 areas to keep them from getting dull. There are also some outdoor areas and near the end of the 
 game theres a very interesting and original environment in an alien world. I love the design of 
 the levels and everything is very memorable.
  
  The sounds in Half-Life are incredible, voice acting in particular is spot on, the rest of the 
 sounds are all realistic too and really help immerse you more in the game. There isn't much music 
 in the game, which is really a good thing because it allows you to really pay attention to all 
 the nice little sound effects. 
  
  Half-Life holds up as a superb game that has aged very gracefully, I can recommend it to everyone 
 for its cinematic nature, no-nonsense shooting, and believable environments and characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Va0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life came at a phenomenal time. Just as the X-Files was really hitting its stride, just when 
 first person shooters were starting to get in a rut, Half-Life materialized, showing just what 
 an incredible, cinematic single player experience could do. Sure, some may say it's overshadowed 
 by its successor. (Hint: It's not.) Sure, it doesn't have an Orwellian setting, but damn, it really 
 nails the paranoid, conspiracy vibe of the late 1990's and it nails it hard. The G-Man seems positively 
 alien and queer, there's plenty of enemy variety, a veritable ecosystem of unknown lifeforms that 
 attack you and attack each other. It's great walking into an area and realizing that factions actually 
 exist - poison spewing monsters will attack headcrabs and marines will attack alien soldiers.
 
  
  Sure, this may be the game where Gordon Freeman was still mortal (he does get lets just say 'blindsided' 
 by at least one set of enemies) , but damnit, he's just a scientist. This is in his pre-messiahic 
 days - this is Gordon Freeman becoming the Freeman, and it's one intense experience. The ending's 
 not so amazing. Xen's gravity and jumping puzzles are underwhelming, but you know, overall, this 
 game's enough good that it's hard to complain - Surface Tension through the Lambda Core are simply 
 some of the best parts of an FPS I've ever played and some of the best parts in Half-Life - the 
 series - overall.
  
  It's easy to recommend Half-Life - get some of that good 1990's vibe, reminisce on how the economy 
 was actually doing all right, and maybe have a few intense shootouts. The AI may even show you 
 a few tricks. Great fun. Highly recommended if you played and enjoyed Half-Life or the Orange Box 
 or any of Valve's similar outings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game from start to finish. I remember seeing the preview for this game in a summer issue 
 of pc gamer back in 98 and feeling overwhelemed with anticipation. 90% of my life was now infront 
 of my monitor, with a strong dose of carpl-tunnle syndrom from endless Quake 2 ctf sessions. This 
 was an exciting time for FPS, many games based on the Quake engine were hiting the shelves, many 
 of which were decent games in their own right, but none of which were story driven.
  
  Half-life immidiatly starts with an interactive cut scene that throws you in the sub plot right 
 away, through out the game you enjoy many more interactive cut scenes, triggered events and twists 
 in the plot. It was closer to a movie quality story then I had ever experienced.
  
  Graphically the game pushed the quake engine well beyond anything we had seen, the quality of everything 
 from the animations, textures, lighting and all of it executed in seamless perfection made this 
 game stand out. The different environments gave it a great level of veriety as well. I can not 
 remember a level or area that did not feel authentic and exciting. 
  
  As in most games of this genre in the late 90's, the goal was to shoot your way through the story. 
 This was the first time that a real story, advanced AI, puzzles, non stop action and a sense of 
 purpose have been mashed together in such effortless perfection. A deep cast of characters help 
 Gordon on his mission and the idea of always being watched by the "g man" gave the story a very 
 progressive plot. The effects in the game and the intelligence of the ai was trully amazing, getting 
 killed was almost as exciting as killing the enemy. 
  
  This game will and should be ranked in the top 10 best games of all time. It has since spawned 
 a successfull sequal, and has evolved the genre well boyond the, run, jump, shoot days of the 90's. 
 A must for everyones collection, and for the $10 is cost to download from Steam it will live on 
 for ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Every game made since 1998's Half-Life, of whatever genre, owes something to it.
  
  Every first-person-shooter since, on some level, is trying to be it.
  
  The success of a post-Half-Life 
 FPS depends on how well it deals with Half-Life's inescapable influence.
  
  Games of the future, as they creep closer and closer towards a convincingly simulated reality, 
 will not look back and find their origins in Pong or Pac-Man or Mario.
  
  But they very well may find them in Half-Life.
  
  Let all the cinematic first-person movie-games 
 released in the last 10 years (and all those that will be released in the next 10) have all the 
 dialogue and exposition and narrative they want.
  
  But Gordon Freeman will continue to hold his tongue, because he still doesn't have to say a word.
 
  
  Half-Life is to modern gaming like what Kubrick's 2001 is to science fiction films -- it's inescapable, 
 and it's the first and (will arguably always be) the best.
  
  If you are a FPS player and you've never played it, you simply have to. And before you complain 
 about it not dazzling you, try to remember that just about everything you've seen in any FPS made 
 since 1998, Half-Life did first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmam2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  I understand how Half-Life was an innovative masterpiece at the time it came out. However, it hasn't 
 aged well, and is not worth playing nowadays. If you're playing it to relive a classic then it 
 could be worth your time, but if you're just looking for entertainment, there are oodles of games 
 that have come out in the last 10 years that would be much more worth your time. The graphics in 
 Half-Life are understandably poor, as the game is 10 years old. Player movement feels fake, as 
 you move much too quickly and climb ladders holding your gun and moving at a dead sprint. There 
 are some annoying glitches in the game, too, such as getting stuck on a box and having to reload 
 the game or things like that. The weapon variety is cool, and there are lots of different types 
 of enemies. However, the gameplay and environment is very repetitive up from the beginning of the 
 game until about the third to last chapter. The last couple hours of the game are unique, but in 
 my opinion not enough to recommend this game. Overall, Half-Life is only worth your time if you're 
 simply looking to relive or experience for the first time a classic that has not aged well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halcyon670
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  When Half-life came out in 1998, it rocked the gaming world. Immersive story, intense gameplay, 
 and a modable engine kept people coming back for more. Today, many gamers dismiss it as an old 
 game that is incapable of standing up to our modern Halo 3, CoD4, and Bioshock. These gamers are 
 missing out, and should forget about the old-school graphics. This is the game that every FPS today 
 owes itself to. Half-life was the first FPS to intigrate immersive story elements, and the genre 
 has become all the better for it. Furthermore, it features very fun gameplay that never gets repetitive, 
 and a difficulty that is challenging, but fair. Dont play this game because it once dominated the 
 gaming world, play this game because, after all these years, it can still hold its own against 
 the modern shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesm1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time my buddy showed me this game, I was blown away. It was the first time 
 a FPS had a real storyline and a character you cared about. The developers did a fantastic job 
 of creating mood with lighting, music and suspense. I'd never been genuinely scared in a game, 
 like you might be in a horror movie, before. But the awesome single-player storyline was only part 
 of what made Half-Life great. It also came with the best multi-player combat I had ever seen. I 
 still have friends who play the original multi-player and swear that there's still nothing better 
 in the gaming world. It had great re-playability and it was by far the longest FPS I had ever seen. 
 But looking back, I think its greatest contribution might have been the way it inspired future 
 games like Far Cry, Call of Duty, F. E. A. R., and Crysis. Half-Life raised the bar significantly 
 for all FPS after 1998 and made being a theoretical physicist cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiepanda13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I remember this is the first FPS I ever played. I spent hours on the computer 
 messing around with this game. You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist at the Black Mesa research 
 facility. An experiment goes horribly wrong, opening up a portal to the alien world Zen. The military 
 soon shoes up, but not to help. They want to kill everyone who knew what happened. You have to 
 fight your way through the black Mesa facility, and eventually, Zen to try and save mankind. This 
 game spawned dozens of sequels, mods, and spinoff type games. It features no cutscenes, and an 
 amazing stroyline. Although this game is old, it is still one of the most reconizible games for 
 the PC. It's terrific gameplay, great storyline, and good visuals (for the time) earned this game 
 over 40 game of the year awards. If this game wasn't a revolutionary step in not only PC gaming, 
 but gaming in general, I don't what was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Half Life is one of the best games ever made which helped revolutionize thr FPS genre. 
  
  ATTENTION to people below the ages of 17. I know your young and you are growing up with games like 
 Crysis but that is because you have been spoiled. In my opinion, younger kids dont want to play 
 the 'older' games mainly because they have short attention spans and lack the patience to look 
 at games that are considered 'dated' in terms of graphics. But enough of my rants, let get to the 
 REVIEWING!!!
  
  -Pros-
  *Graphics Top Notch
  *Awesome Firefights
  *Wicked AI
  *Beautiful Environments
  *Intro Scene Sets the Mood
  *Clear and Understandable Plot/Setting
 
  *Clever Puzzles and Interaction
  *Nice Physics Engine
  *Easy to Run
  *Optimized Well, Few Glitches/Bugs
  *Keeps an Eerie Pace Throughout
  
  -Cons-
  *Single 
 Player Ends
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterocks7
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Solid FPS action from start to finish, deep involving story that truly makes you feel 
 like you are the one experiencing the events, great variety of weapons and enemies.
  
  THE BAD: Very long opening sequence.
  
  Half-life is a game that very few people do not know 
 by now. It was revolutionary in it's time and still is an incredible experience today. While the 
 graphics are somewhat outdated, you'll barely notice as you get sucked in to this incredible world 
 where you really become the hero of the story.
  
  You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist at the Black Mesa Research facility. While doing a routine 
 experiment, something goes horribly wrong, opening up a portal to another demension from which 
 many different forms of alien life proceed to come through. You will have to fight your way out 
 of the research facility, fighting aliens and human soldiers sent in to "clean up" the mess. You 
 will fight your way through a huge underground research facility, out onto the surface, and even 
 on an alien planet. All these locations are beautifully done and add to the immersiveness of the 
 game. 
  
  But the thing that really makes Half-life stand out above all its peers is the way it makes you 
 feel like you are the one experiencing the events of the game. The entire game takes place through 
 you eyes in the first-person view. There are no cut-scenes whatsoever, and every scene that would 
 be a cut-scene you still are playing the role of Gordon Freeman, free to move around an interact 
 with the NPC's. While a ver y simpe concept, this makes you really feel like you are the one experiencing 
 all the events in the game. The character of Gordon Freeman has no pre-set personality or characteristics. 
 Your feelings and reactions to the events are his. I have never played a game that makes you more 
 involved in the story than this, and it really makes the experience one that sticks with you for 
 a long time.
  
  The gameplay is as solid and enjoyable as you'll find in any FPS. There is a great variety of weaponry 
 ranging from the iconic crowbar to alien life-forms you can use against the enemy. The enemy AI 
 is also excellent. Some of the smaller aliens and some humans will run away after taking some punishment. 
 The soldiers will use flanking tactics and grenades instead of just running at you head-on. And 
 the assassins will use hit-and-run tactics to compensate for their weaker armor. On the hardest 
 dificulty setting it can prove to be quite challenging at times.
  
  The graphics are somewhat dated now, but they were incredible in their time, and still look pretty 
 good today. They certainly don't detract from the experience at all, and can look very nice at 
 times even compared to today's graphics.
  
  The sound is just as solid as the everything else in the game. The weapons, aliens, NPC's, and 
 environments all sound realistic and can make the mood quite tense and scary at times if you have 
 a good speaker setup.
  
  In closing, Half-life is one of, if not, the greatest games ever made. The experience is one that 
 no FPS gamer should miss. The story, atmosphere, immersion, and gameplay all add up to make an 
 incredible experience that is easily worth 10X the amount that you can buy this game for today. 
 No gamer should go without this in their collection.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  STORYLINE: 10
  GRAPHICS: 9.5
  SOUND: 10
  VALUE: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Its the First Person game that started it all. Ofcourse Doom was the first ever FPS game but this 
 game really revolutionarized everything that a FPS needed to have.
  
  It comes with an expansion called Counter-Strike Condition Zero which very obviously every gamer 
 on this planet has played or heard.
  
  The hero of this game is called Gordon Freeman and wears a thick specks. He is a nerdy scientist 
 who never TALKS. The guns in this game are amazing and the levels are mindblowing.
  
  Also the enemies in this game are very good. The mouse movements, the aiming and the simple feel 
 of this game are so much better than half life 2. This game really improved my counter strike skills.
 
  
  The game starts out in a train and the mission of gordon freeman is to stop the aliens from destroying 
 the planet. There are also some good puzzles. The story is amazing. Overall a great game. Easily 
 one of the greatest FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  .. addictive and has a fantastic story to boot.
  
  First off, the graphics in HL were, for it's time, absolutly gorgeous. The game and many of it's 
 mods are still being widely played today, even though it's been out for 6 years. The game looks 
 great. The weapon models are great, the player models were great, for it's time. Although now they 
 don't look so great, especially compared to the HL2 player models. 
  
  The AI is pretty good. The Aliens are nothing special but the marines will take cover, through 
 grenades at you and try to flank you, making firefights more interesting cause if you take your 
 eye off one enemy for a split second, they next thing you know is you have a shotgun pointed at 
 you from behind. By that point it's too late.
  
  The levels have a lot of variety in them in how to progress. Sometimes you have to turn on a switch 
 or unlock something to move through, other times you have to do a little jumping puzzle over gaps 
 or with boxes and sometimes you have to just blast everything that movies.
  
  The storyline is fantastic. You are Gordon Freeman, a scientist that works at the Black Mesa Research 
 Facility. Your current project is top secret and your into a testing phaze.. during that test.. 
 something happens.. something goes frightfully wrong. Thats when all hell breaks loose. On top 
 of the current problems, the government decides to send in some marines to "mop up" and make sure 
 no one lives to tell the tale of what happened.
  
  There are scientists scattered throughout the place, some are lucky enough to survive the inital 
 problem and then some are even luckier are have survived the initial marine clean up. These scientists 
 can help you by unlocking areas for you. You also come across security guards, known as Barney, 
 he carries a pistol and will help fight against enemies as well as getting you into otherwise unaccessable 
 areas. 
  
  There are vechiles you get to move, they are nothing special but they do add some variety other 
 than running around shooting. Although Half Life is different from regular shooters in it's filled 
 with puzzles. Some of the BIG enemies you can't kill with your own normal weapons. So you have 
 to find other ways to get rid of them. At one part in the game, you can't.. you just have to sneak 
 around it so it doesn't hear you.
  
  This is one fantastic game that combines puzzle solving with FPS and is done perfectly. On top 
 of having this fantastic game, you also can download a LOT of different mods. There are some amazingly 
 great single player mods out there, as well as multiplayer ones. Some of the big multiplayer mods, 
 such as Team Fortress Classic, Day of Defeat, and the ever popular Counter-Strike. These mods extend 
 the live of Half Life a huge amount, altough the single player campaign of HL will take you a while 
 to get through. It's a long, yet very fun game and if you don't own it, you can pick it up for 
 a very cheap price now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Man4ever
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Well, Half Life is the best game ever made in this FKing galaxy. it just is, and if you didn't 
 play when it was launched, yes in 1999, you haven't got a clue about what it's real fans are talking 
 about. back then (ou yeah...) , back then the graphics where THE BEST, sound and atmosphere was 
 THE BEST and the storyline, well... sincerely nothing comes close to it. (except for the monsters 
 they were clearly ripped off from the movies "the thing" and "starship troopers" and maybe the 
 explosion might just have a drop of cernobyl in it, but hey, at that time Britney was still a virgin 
 (or so we thought) . It had it all and a bag of chips plus a free soda. You couldn't get anything 
 that would even come close to it. Now looking back, yes the story wasn't quite 110% original, the 
 maps were straight forward, but as I told you... it hit us like a bus. Flat out on our back and 
 we loved it. It's funny, now i'm playing HL2 and I get a really nice feeling, thinking, "hey, I 
 was that guy (gordon freeman) , 10 years ago I started this". And valve doesn't seem to give up on 
 us. It's got new graphics, new textures, sounds, everything is changed and almost nothing like 
 the original, but it still has that feeling.
  To me this is the game that opened my appetite for PC games, and after playing HL2, ep1 and 2, 
 it still is keeping that hunger in check. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robheisel
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  before there was halo or any other shooters half-life was pure kick butt of all time it was one 
 of the 10 best shooters of all time this game was cool
  but here is my review of half-life.
  
  The Story: in the game you play the role of gordon freeman 
 famed scientist that works at place called black mesa later you make a portal that makes a
  alien world called xen the story in the game is well-design the charcthers look sharp and soild 
 with a great style of fps.
  
  The Gameplay: in the game you get over types of weapons first you get crowbar gordons trusty weapon 
 for breaking stuff and for people that have wits to fight there foes the agian you get a pistol 
 machine gun shotgun and crossbow then other cool weapons but theres more to that the gameplay has 
 some puzzles that you thats right you need to slove the puzzle are anoyying as crud with the most 
 main flaw the jumping puzzles.
  
  The Graphics: the sound is good with great music nice looking people nothing else to say.
  
 
  Overall: if you are interisted in games like this your goanna love half-life.
  
  9 out of 10.
  
  The Good: great story with superb gameplay and some of best graphics and music.
 
  
  The Bad: the puzzles are little bit to easy.
  
  The Ugly: nope.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkylinePigeon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  It's 1998. Half-Life is released for the PC to much fanfare and critical acclaim. Lauded for its 
 innovations in storytelling, excellence in graphics and sound design, integration of puzzle and 
 shooter gameplay, and tense atmosphere, Half-Life is awarded numerous Game of the Year awards and 
 some of the highest review scores ever given. It is deservedly nothing short of a phenomenon, and 
 its presence utterly transforms the first person shooter genre.
  
  Unfortunately for Half-Life, it's not 1998 any longer. Games have come a long way in the past ten 
 years, due in part to Half-Life's influence. Half-Life's highest accomplishment was it's method 
 of storytelling, but new shooters such as Call of Duty 4 and Bioshock are leaps and bounds ahead 
 of Half-Life's initial baby steps. Comparing ten year old graphics to today's standards gives only 
 laughable results, and the onslaught of horror games from the past few years gives players many 
 options for tense, frightening games. The first person shooter genre has remained incredibly popular 
 throughout the past ten years, and in this interim Half-Life's gameplay breakthroughs have been 
 improved upon significantly. While its importance in the history of game design is undeniable, 
 is the game still worth playing ten years later?
  
  Half-Life's greatest innovation was its assimilation of storytelling alongside traditional shooter 
 gameplay, and the story is probably the main draw for new players of this old game. Fortunately, 
 the storytelling methods hold up well. The scenario is a basic game plot involving aliens, marines, 
 and a science experiment gone awry, but the way it is told makes it stand out. The story progresses 
 through scripted events, and the player always has control of protagonist Gordon Freeman. No cut 
 scenes jar the player in and out of the action. As the aliens take control of the Black Mesa research 
 facility, the game takes on an air reminiscent of a horror movie. Blood spattered scientists lie 
 on the floor, giving evidence to unseen monsters hidden in dark corners. Despite the aged graphics, 
 it's genuinely spooky. When the player encounters the marines in later portions of the game, the 
 threatening messages they leave Gordon on the walls are disconcerting. On a few occasions the player 
 has the opportunity to listen to the Marines' communications, making the game seem more realistic. 
 It is the small touches in the game that create a believable world and make the story so engrossing. 
 Though it is a simple narrative, the ending is definitely a surprise. Some may call it anticlimactic, 
 but no one can doubt that it is an interesting conclusion that sets up what is to come beyond the 
 original Half-Life. 
  
  While shooting mechanics have been fine tuned in the past ten years, at its core the gameplay is 
 largely the same. The shooting portions of the game are a lot of fun. There are only about ten 
 different enemy types in the game, but because these enemies are different enough to keep the encounters 
 are fresh. The encounters with the Marines in the middle section of the game are the most engaging; 
 the AI is just smart enough to make it challenging, though with a little trial and error their 
 patterns are easy to figure out. Gordon has a large arsenal at his disposal, but even with the 
 variety most players will probably rely on two or three standby weapons. Though nothing about the 
 gunplay will surprise current players, it is still enjoyable.
  
  Unfortunately, Half-Life's incorporation of puzzles into the course of the game does not hold up 
 as well. Most of the puzzles are environmental and involve getting around lasers or turning on 
 complex machines. The puzzles are all really simple and at times monotonous, especially near the 
 end of the game. On occasion the player will be required to move boxes around, and this is always 
 obnoxious. The player has to push the box by moving into it; there is no grab button. Thus, it's 
 difficult to place the box exactly where it needs to be and frustratingly easy to knock the box 
 out of its place. Some of these box segments were so unnecessarily difficult that they were changed 
 for the PS2 release of the game.
  
  It is simple and unnecessary frustrations like these that will keep current players from enjoying 
 Half-Life as much as the gamers of 1998. The platforming portions of the game are absurdly difficult, 
 and it's hard to perform mundane tasks like climbing up and down ladders. On occasion the PC version 
 of the game makes the player take mandatory falls that can kill you if you don't have enough health, 
 and I imagine this was a game-stopping occurrence for some players. The blurry, dated graphics 
 may cause headaches on occasion. The shooting doesn't always seem to connect, the most egregious 
 example of this being an underwater fight with a fish that is complicated by the fish's shoddy 
 framerate and poor collision detection. To make matters worse, the gun the player must use to destroy 
 the fish has only ten bullets, reducing this task to an annoying hindrance. The game's final section 
 is frustrating to the point I almost gave up and watched the ending online. Because of these problems 
 there are times when the game is simply not fun, and less tolerant players probably will not have 
 the patience to stick with it.
  
  Though it's not as much of an issue as the ones I already mentioned, the most disappointing glitch 
 involved the game's soundtrack. One of the ways Half-Life maintains its tense atmosphere is through 
 the way music is used. Most of the time, no music plays. Instead, players traverse the silent Black 
 Mesa facility, hearing only minimal environmental noises such as crackling electricity, running 
 water, and the low growls of the aliens who have taken over the labs. This use of restraint holds 
 up very well, and the silence only heightens the tension the player feels as he or she plays the 
 game. Problems occur when the music kicks in, usually during enemy encounters. The game has a quick 
 save feature, and it is best to use it often. Unfortunately, the music doesn't transfer to the 
 new save. If Gordon dies and the player restarts from the quick save, the song that was playing 
 during the encounter will not restart. The music is good when it can be heard, but any player that 
 makes good use of the quick save will not hear much of it. 
  
  The game undeniably has many, many problems. Seeing past them can be difficult, but Half-Life is 
 considered a classic for a reason. Current gamers have been spoiled by newer classics enough to 
 the point that it is hard to put up with old flaws that that new games have corrected, but going 
 back to one's roots is often a good thing. Though it hasn't aged perfectly, the core gameplay still 
 is fun, and there are many new games that could learn a thing or two from Half-Life's storytelling 
 methods. It will take the player a heavy dose of patience, but after ten years the game is still 
 worth playing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-AM-THE-G-MAN
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  well.. what can i say, this is half-life the experience that still holds strong against all other 
 games even today (being 1st june '08) and will remain the largest step that the FPS genre will 
 ever take away from other games available at the time of its release. the game still has, is my 
 opinion the best scenario, story line and atmosphere ever to be replicated in a video game, the 
 black mesa resonance cascade was truly the most amazing thing ever to happen in a video game, that 
 single event, triggered by the ever mysterious g-man will go down in video game history. 
  anyway, you play as gordon freeman who has a phd in theoretical physics, and who you'll notice 
 fairly quicly will never speak, this can be interpreted in a few ways, but most of all it makes 
 you build his character up just from his appearance and how others react and speak to him. most 
 of the game is played out in an alien infested post-cascade black mesa and quite realisticly represents 
 that, health stations are where you may need medical assisstance in a normally operating black 
 mesa as the suit chargers are where you may need a HEV suit charged. the gameplay is still resoundingly 
 old and movement is quite unrealistic, but graphics are livable if you enjoy the game enough to 
 put up with them, but they mached if not bettered the best graphics seen to date upon release date 
 (november 1998) . you have a good platter of weapons to choose from that is perhaps less extensive 
 as the previous year's goldeneye's selection, but all functioned in a much more realistic manner 
 due to the increased power present in the household pc. no weapon in any game ever realesed became 
 more of a trademark for the game than the crowbar for half-life although through much of the game 
 it is unneccasary to use it and it is relatively useless unless you have run out of ammunition, 
 gordon and his crowbar quickly became famous and today it remains the games trademark weapon. there 
 are a variety of enemies that vary from lightning throwing vortigaunts (mysterious creatures who 
 seem to have importance in the sequels in regard to the g-man and the storyline in general) to 
 headcrabs (of which are considerably annoying and try to possess people by coupling with thier 
 heads) . generally a corridor shooter (apart from levels bieng partcially outdoors and one fully) 
 the fighting is hardly revoloutionary incorporating no new ideas from the many 'zombie shooters' 
 that were available at the time (although looking much better while doing it) . the storyline is 
 played out through your eyes only unlike its sequel with nobody speaking to you throughout the 
 entire game apart from the many generic scientists and at the end g-man, this has major advantages 
 and was another revoloutionary aspect of the game as you were given space to figure the storyline 
 and grow comfortable (or uncomfortable) with your surroundings and learn of the situation first 
 hand, and although there were levels, they were unbroken and you didnt recieve text screens telling 
 you what to do next giving and increased feeling of realism. the game was made with a heavily modified 
 version of the quake engine and that clearly shows in movement. to date has sold over 8,000,000 
 copies and has remained the best selling shooter of all time scince (its record may have been overtaken 
 by the fantastic COD4) . scince its release 3 sequels have also been released, the long awaited 
 half-life 2, half-life 2: episode one and episode 2 are all the sequels released with gordon freeman 
 as the player and are the most famous of all realesed, the others bieng opposing force and blue 
 shift, also a remake of the original half-life called half-life: source was released featuring 
 updated graphics and featured the source engine used in the sequels to this game. look for my reviews 
 on those. this is an incredible game even today, that has etched its way fairly deep into the book 
 of video game history. incredible. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Half life
  
  In half life you are a scientist call Dr Gordon freeman, 
  
  The game play 
  
  You are the scientist Gordon freeman and you and your staff conduct experiments 
 and a new crystal that you put in to a energy beam but it goes terribly wrong and you have opened 
 a port and a lot of aliens come out and start to kill everyone and what you have to do is kill 
 the aliens and reach the surface but you find some soldiers and they are ordered to kill everyone 
 in the facility but you have to escape alive. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are very good for the games age and also in very good detail
  
  The sound 
  
 
  The sound is very good and when you hear the guns going off it is amazing and when you have a door 
 that is stuck and it is trying to open you can hear the metal doors clunking away when it is trying 
 to open 
  
  My suggestion is that if you like to encounter aliens and you really what to kill them I would 
 suggest that you buy this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unemerge1
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Overview-
  Alot of games have came and went, but Half life is one of those games which shook the world. It 
 has a pretty great engine back in 1998. I can tell which game is gonna rule and which is gonna 
 suck majorly, this my friend, is a masterpiece !
  
  Gameplay-
  The best thing of the game is the gameplay, its very cool like you can move boxes, great shooting, 
 cool weapons etc. The engine is very flexible, but not like HL2 :P Like when you step on water 
 which has a naked electric cord in it, you'll get a shock. The monsters and the soldiers have a 
 great A. I. But i think the game is too easy or its easy because i played it about 100 times ! This 
 game has a great replay value.
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics of the game are very solid. The level desgins are super, the Labs, the Outside area 
 and Xen have great textures. The soldiers animation is simple and not good. The particles are awsome, 
 blood, greeny-yellowish stuff :P. The water is not transparent.
  
  Sound-
  I dont know about sound... err... there good. But the music, the Music my friend is superb, its techno-rock. 
 The voice is great, especially the 'Gman'. Btw, Gordon (the main character) dosent speak !
  
  Bottom line-
  If havent played this game you should jump off a cliff or shoot yourself ! 
 This is game, i think, "The Greatest Game of All Time". 
  Great Story + Great GFX + Great Sound = Half life.
  if you have ended this game you can download, 
 like hundreds of mods for it. I fell pretty sorry for those people who have'nt played HL. Buy this 
 Game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I just do not understand what the big deal is with this game. I mean it is like people think the 
 wheel was invented or something. There are other shooters that are far far more revolutionary than 
 Half-Life. Don't get me wrong, Like I saidit is a good shooter" but that is as far as it goes 
 as far as I am concerned. I personally feel that System Shock and Deus Ex deserve the praise that 
 this game is getting. Those games are just so awesome in every way. Half Life is way to linear. 
 With Deus Ex and System Shock there were a dozen ways you could accomplish the same goal.
  I think the first Deus Ex is my favorite shooter of all time.
  Man what a game. It is more immersive 
 than Far Cry.
  Deus Ex was a perfect execution of a sandbox type game.
  It is just too bad that games like this are not being made today.
  With the Securom fiasco Surrounding 
 Mass Effect I do not think I will be buying any more EA games at all, Period. It angers me when 
 people say that piracy is what is killing PC Gaming. Bull! What is killing PC gaming is gaming 
 companies that do not give a sh! t about their fans and pull stupid stunts like the Mass Effect 
 thing. EA is the worst for stuff like this. I was so looking forward to Mass Effect and even more 
 Red Alert 3. If they persist in using these stupid anti-piracy measures that only serve to harass 
 those who actually buy their games they can count me out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game ultimately. It wasn't one that I rushed to finish. It's taken me about a year 
 or more to work through it, it just didn't always hold my interest. It could be fun in spurts. 
 I think the main gripe Ihave with the game is the annoying jumping puzzles, or move this box puzzles, 
 etc. It's a lot more fun to follow a linear path and just worry about kicking some alien ass than 
 it is to try to figure out where the hell you're supposed to go next. Shotguns, cool alien weapons, 
 and heavy damage dealing sidearms were what this game was really about to me. I enjoyed the story, 
 as such. The ending with the man in black was pretty interesting. Perhaps it was the fact that 
 I played it nearly 10 years after its release that I didn't fall in love with it. I am looking 
 forward to trying out Half Life 2. One of the biggest annoyances was the way that character slides 
 around instead of feeling like you're running or walking, you feel as though you're gliding around 
 on a hover sled, which makes for difficult jumps and of course many many deaths along the way. 
 Definitely worth a look if you're a FPS fan, wasn't quite as tremendous as the hype would have 
 ed me to believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayner225
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The Half Life series is kind of strange. Your a scientist and an experiment goes horribly wrong. 
 The problem creates headcrabs which creats the zombies by sucking on their head or as barny says 
 in the second game "head humper" The game is unique in many ways and is created by 2 extremely 
 talented companies. Sierra created the hit series F. E. A. R. and Valve created Counter Strike, Team 
 Fortress, Portal, and many others. This game is worth getting and is a great chance to take. The 
 game doesn't have much horror but startling parts of the game that sends you to the moon it you 
 get what I mean. The game has unique enemies, and weapons. Plus every First Person Shooter has 
 to have hostiles no matter if it's you or the enemy. Don't go entirely on Half Life Opposing Force 
 and Blue Shift because the game showed on STEAM is made by Gearbox which probably have totally 
 different employees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life simply set a new standard for all shooters. It had everything a game should ever need 
 - amazing graphics, exhilirating gameplay, immersive environments, big weapons to kill big aliens, 
 and a badass scientist with glasses and a cool orange suit.
  
  The basic premise of Half-Life is that you are this scientist (Gordon Freeman) and you arrive for 
 an ordinary day of work ('ordinary' is a gigantic futuristic science lab) only to end up unleashing 
 aliens upon earth during an experiment gone wrong, and screwing up mankind as we know it.
  So, armed with a crowbar and an awesome suit, you must fight off hordes of creatures and try to 
 fix what you have done.
  
  Its all very cliche, but its not the story of Half-Life thats so great... Its the way the story 
 is executed.
  When you first play Half-Life, you dont see a cutscene to introduce you to the game... The screen 
 just fades in and BAM! There you are, travelling on a tram through the Black Mesa Facility (the 
 science lab) to get to your destination and bugger up the world. In fact, you dont see any cutscene 
 throughout the whole game. The idea of this is to give you the impression that YOU ARE Gordon Freeman. 
 From the fade in at the beginning of the game, to the fade out at the end of the game, you see 
 everything from Gordon's perspective. And it works! I never played another game as immersive as 
 this until Half-Life 2 came out, which used the same method and worked even better (imo) .
  When you are travelling in this tram, you might just like to look around at stare at everything 
 going on - you can see futuristic objects being fixed, scientists scurrying around everywhere, 
 and huge robots clearing up toxic waste. You see a helicopter taking off outside, and watch as 
 a scientist gets locked out of a room by accident and bangs on the door.
  When you get out of the tram, you can explore a little bit before messing up the world if you so 
 desire. You can talk to scientists and security guards, some of which tell you to get going to 
 the test chamber for the experiment because your late.
  
  When you finally get into the test chamber, you are told by two optimistic scientists that there 
 have been some problems which havent been entirely fixed, but it should all be ok (yeah right) . 
 Then you go inside, press a few buttons, push this thing into this other thing, and finally screw 
 the world up.
  Everything starts exploding, aliens appear everywhere, the scientists get turned into gibs, and 
 you black out. After having a few freaky visions, you appear back at the facility, and embark on 
 the most exhilirating 10 - 12 hour journey you have had for a long time.
  
  I'd better shut up now, because im letting myself talk here, and if I wanted to I could tell you 
 every little thing that happens throughout the whole game, but i wont.
  
  Basically, if you are any kind of fan of First Person Shooters at all, you should get this game. 
 It was amazing and immersive when it came out, and its still amazing and immersive today, despite 
 rubbish graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicdemon
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  A lot of things annoyed me about this game. -The intro movie was soooo long and boring
  -The story wasn't really that good
  -It was just wandering through the same building
  -Gameplay 
 was static
  -I just plain got BORED after I kept wandering around trying to figure out where to go.
  -The 
 guns were very boring and the auto-aim made it as easy as pie to hit an alien.
  
  I suppose the only upside would be the multiplayer, but I usually just play single-player, so I'm 
 not I think I played 3 hours or so and stopped. I'm surprised I disliked a game that was rated 
 so highly. I wish I had more to say here, but I just am lost for words as to how disappointing 
 this was. How did this get editor's choice?? It's the most generic first person shooter I've ever 
 played. I think I may try Half-Life 2, though, just to see if improved any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str1keR-S1R
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  There is simply nothing too much that can be said about this game, absolutely stunning... The thing 
 that makes it great are it's battles with the huge variety of enemies it contains. The puzzles 
 are just fun and amazing to solve. The boss fights are very smartly designed, normally you can't 
 just empty your ammo out on them, you have to solve fantastic puzzles in order to beat them. The 
 weapons are just truly amazing, from a crow bar used to bash open crates or windows to a high tech 
 device that disintegrates anything in it's path. My favourite would have to be the MP5 sub machine 
 gun, especially in battles against the (warning spoilers, when I don't think you actually care) 
 marine forces. Just don't be surprised when you see a grenade land near your feet. This game is 
 a must have to any first person shooter, even to the ones who aren't fans of science fiction. Well 
 it would be a must have to all, if the year was still 1998, but it is simply the best FPS of it's 
 time. Go get it and play it NOW! I don't care how you do it, just get it NOW! That's an order! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  ***PLEASE NOTE: All my reviews are based off the single player version of the game only.***
  
  The most famous genre ever to debut on the PC is without a doubt the First Person Shooter. 
 Wolfenstien 3D made it famous, Doom made it infamous. However what both those games and all the 
 one's before Half Life lacked were two key MAJOR components..... realism and story line, in the 
 sense that there were NONE. 
  
  All FPS games before Half Life were in a sense... all the same. Maps were designed as puzzles with 
 "prizes" in the forms of power ups and ammo just scattered throughout in random places... just sitting 
 there spinning around for no reason. Also you never really understood what exactly you were fighting 
 for.
  
  Then came Half Life. A game that not only brought realistic placement of weapons, ammo, etc and 
 not only brought a story line but brought a good one at that. Right from the get go you drawn into 
 the game. Almost wondering "what the hell is going on.... i thought this was a shooter?!?" Only 
 to find yourself wrapped up in a great story that help gives the player that huge missing step 
 of immersion into the game. 
  
  Half Life really went above and beyond the normal realm of video games. The leap in advancement 
 this game made in the industry is probably the largest of any genre and has an insanely devoted 
 fan base. This game is one of the few "must play" games out there for anyone... even those who aren't 
 a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 9
  Sounds 8
  Value 10
  Tilt 9
  (Actual Score 9.1)
  
  Valve; an unknown developer company entering an ever choking FPS world particularly in the 'golden 
 year' of 1998 PC gaming is definitely a daunting feat. The world is talking about 'ackin' for Quakin' 
 and of course the next Quake killer. Unreal showed its face literally with blinding colours and 
 a vast world to explore; Baldur's Gate illustrated what RPG stands for; Grim Fandango barked 'adventure 
 gaming is not dead'; Starcraft redefining the meaning of RTS and I remember the cover art of an 
 Australian PC magazine 'PC PowerPlay' showed the remarkable European Air Wars as being the game 
 gamers played and a little blurb tucked in a corner 'Half Life reviewed here' with a whopping 9.8 
 scored.
  
  Of course anyone who's heard of Half Life now probably is thinking 'So what's all the fuss?' Well 
 read on.
  
  Half Life broke the 'rules' of FPS gaming. Anyone not following that successful formula (especially 
 a newly founded company) of kill kill and more killing is really asking for trouble; actually begging 
 for trouble. Well Value had a very ambitious idea of letting the player run its course and not 
 being told via cut-scenes (and really there's nothing wrong with that - it's just another way of 
 telling a story) . However after numerous battles trying to get a publisher, Sierra decided to give 
 this game a try.
  
  It's starts of with the protagonist 'Gordon Freeman' (even the name is not that heroic - I don't 
 see a 'Max', 'Striker' or 'Master Blaster' at all - Gordon?) taking a site-seeing tour in a tram 
 to be involved in some testing that resulted crashing the whole complex. Sounds pretty typical 
 however as stated above, no cut-scenes therefore you will cause this catastrophic affect by playing 
 it. Of course creatures from some unknown dimension pops up and off you go to the surface by doing 
 that run Forrest run!
  
  Yet Valve didn't stop there with their genius thinking. Typical FPS is pretty much  
 type of game play. However in Half Life the game will make you think twice before shooting as talking 
 to fellow scientists (or not getting them killed) could lead you into some cache of goodies. Also 
 assistance from security guards will go a fair way however that's not really the considerable change. 
 (As a side note, when the scientist has used up its usefulness I normally dispose 
 him in some macabre way. Why you may ask? He knows too much. Guards on the other hand will eventually 
 get killed.)
  
  Environments are something that many FPS lacks. In Half Life the environments can kill you as much 
 as the enemies themselves. Expect wobbly grates, exploding barrels, trip mines (those things are 
 evil as they normally attached to a container for double the pleasure) , electric shocks and falling 
 debrisbasically anything that you expect when it comes to a collapsed facility. This will 
 force you to think twice about shooting first as its really not a good idea when the floor 
 below you gives way and you ending up in a pile of biohazard waste. Look before you leap.
  
  If thats not enough, the military will offer their support by putting you out of your 
 misery (it is after all a resolution but not an ideal one) . Expect tanks, grenades, apache helicopters, 
 manned turrets and rocketed missiles. Now add those pesky aliens (head crabs, zombies, grunts and 
 barnacles to name a few) I suggest reconsidering 
  
  The most memorable enemy in the game however will be the G-Man. Clad in an expensive 
 business suit and carrying a briefcase (I can never make out the marking on his briefcase) he will 
 manifest where you least expected. Take a careful look literally from the beginning until the end 
 of the game for his special guest appearance. Also this makes the game play raise two notches as 
 it brings in a sense of mystery.
  
  All is not lost here though. Gordon will collect an immense range of arsenal to dispose your foes; 
 ranging from pistols to rifles to heavy weaponry to experimental. And the good news is that your 
 enemies will not able to handle those experimental ones (however take note of the word experimental) . 
 Still the most iconic weapon in my opinion will be the crowbar. This weapon not only breaks crates, 
 it looks cool as well.
  
  Graphically the game is a gem. Its not ultimately the best looking game however its 
 pretty detailed. Using the heavily modified Quake II Engine (ironic though as Half Life was aiming 
 to topple Quake II) you can see the elements of the Quake II faade. The backdrops are very Quakish 
 as the environments as well. So what you expect from Quake II is also here in Half Life.
  
  However the major improvement for this engine has to be the uncanny AI. Only Unreal can match the 
 human-like ability of the AI. In other FPS once an enemy spots you, they hunt you 
 down like a rabbit. I was initially expecting the same in Half Life how something strange happened. 
 The AI will hunt you by flanking! Yes, theres actually thought in their movement. Some enemies 
 are quite predictable however those military men are not shy when it comes to using grenades. You 
 have been warned.
  
  Yet again, the buck doesnt stop here when it comes to innovation. Usually the common enemy 
 will attack you unless accidentally hit by their fellow man only then they attack each other. In 
 Half Life its not the case. The aliens and the military will never team up therefore you 
 will witness battles between these two groups and of course you. Again this throws away this blast 
 all approach as its wise to sit and wait and see whos left standing to pick 
 off the scraps.
  
  If there is a weakness it has to be the sounds. Please dont get me wrong here as the sounds 
 are top notch however you are comparing the cream of the creams here. The voices from the scientists, 
 even though quite well lip-synced however its limited in the number of voices used. Its 
 like they shared voice boxes with each other. The musical scores are great to listen to and do 
 get you in the mood however its few and far between. Everything else is what you expect 
 from the Quake II Engine; loud, aggressive and earth shattering. Expect no ambience sounds here 
 (and rightfully so) . So Im glad that the shotgun will sound like a shotgun and the blast 
 from the tanks main gun will hurt your ears!
  
  The length of play in Half Life is longer than your average shooter. Expect to play 
 20+ hours of mayhem and the good thing about this its not repetitive game play. You will 
 require hiding, searching and blasting your way through and also provides that typical easy, medium 
 and hard settings. I have played it on medium and considering Im no dummy when it comes 
 to FPS (well I think Im not) its quite challenging as mentioned above its 
 not just the enemies you need to worry about.
  
  I really cannot comment too much about the multiplayer aspects however it seems it's got that typical 
 death match scenarios which is pretty much the staple diet of any multiplayer option. However it 
 went one step further of packaging tools to develop your own maps hence bringing in that huge modding 
 community. Just look around and you can easily pick up a great mod for additional Half Life pleasures!
 
  
  I hope this review gives justification of how terrific and innovative Half Life really is. I have 
 read many forums stating Whats the big deal of Half Life? and by reading my 
 blurb will again hopefully answer this age-old question. I actually remembered Half Life at the 
 time of release and took into account that you do need a beefy PC to run this monster of a game 
 however the reality was that it was over-shadowed by Quake II, Diablo, Duke 3D and believe-it-or-not 
 Doom until the critics put their two-cent worth. Like Unreal it was a pretty slow of the starting 
 block however once leapt and looking at it today who doesnt know that non-macho name of 
 Gordon Freeman and his iconic crowbar? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolas101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Back before 1998. Quake was king. However, it stuck to the same formula that had been there since 
 Doom. Not much of a story. Put the player in a map full of enimies and give him a gun. Then he 
 fights his way through. There are health packs and ammo everywhere for no apparent reason. WTF!!!????
 
  
  Then Half Life came out. A first level without fighting! WTF!!! Then it dawns on the gamer how 
 awesome this is, you acctually have time to explore and see the scenery. Everyting is fine, until 
 that moment when you screw everything up. One of the biggest WTF moments in video game history.
 
  
  When it came out, Half Life was a great game. It was new, and reinvented the genre. Weapons and 
 ammo are where you expect them to be, not just floating around the level randomly. And for one 
 of the first times ever, you have to THINK. In this game, if you just charge in firing, you ain't 
 gonna get nowhere. There are many ways to get through the area, but the harder ways are easier 
 to see than the easy ways.
  
  This brings me to my next point. Difficulty. Hard. Mostly because your first time through, you 
 don't know what to do, and it may take you many tries before you find out what to do. This didn't 
 annoy me so much, I enjoyed the experiance. However, it may annoy some people. If it does, and 
 you like to just fight, look up a walkthrough for what to do, and then just run in and shoot, already 
 knowing what you have to do.
  
  Also, all computers nowadays should be able to handle it. My ipod can. So don't worry about system 
 specs. Even works on vista. I am playing it now.
  
  So if you like FPS, then buy it. If you like puzzles, buy it. If you like both, definatly go buy 
 it. It is rare on disc form, but you can get it off steam for 15 American dollers or 16 Australian 
 dollers. It is only a 600 mb download. And that includes all the expansions and TFC, which are 
 both awesome.
  
  In one word, revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_blaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Positive:
  
  Perfect AI.
  Great Graphics.
  Big chance of replayability.
  Lots of classic weapons, and some awesome new ones too *Sinister Laugh*
  Lots of surprises packed 
 in that will either make you want to play more, or make u piss in ur panties.
  
  Negative:
  
  Gameplay gets a little too repetitive at times.
  Not the best voice acting.
 
  
  After hearing about half life for the first time, I thought "Great, another boring ass shooter, 
 just what the world needs" But after playing it for about 4 seconds, my eyes were stuck to the 
 screen with ultra glue (Not really) . The game starts of with you assuming the role of Gordon Freeman. 
 You work at Black Mesa, a high tech facility somewhere in the desert. You are to take part in a 
 test using the facility's most dangerous sample. After that, the plot goes like any other, Boom, 
 Crash, OMG help! Monsters! Then you must make your way out of the base, killing everything you 
 find. The game starts off with a 5 minute long tram ride, which may seem boring in most games, 
 but it was different. It showed you so much, told you amazing things, made me want to go on it 
 again. It didn't end there though, as the visuals in the first level, and all the interesting thing 
 to look at, would it end? It never ever did. Even after about 10 replays. The first problem I found, 
 was that the voice acting of the npcs around you wasn't too great. But that wasn't a problem. But 
 then, in Black Mesa, everything that is assumed "Not a problem" ends up creating the big bang. 
 All the constant fighting, shooting, screaming profanaties at the screen, it didn't ruin the game. 
 Except for the slight repetitive gameplay that occured quite often. But what kept it interesting 
 was that, you'd go into a room, a monster or two would jump out at you, you'd own it, you'd go 
 into another room, which is completely different, and you don't know where the enemies are gonna 
 come from. So it makes it really exciting, really enjoyable, instead of just going through the 
 same room for hours, the same enemies. Then comes the weapons. There are a lot of various weapons 
 that you come across throughout the game, like the crowbar, which played a big part in the game, 
 and all it's sequels, and the good old shotgun, a must have for weapon lovers. There are also some 
 new ones, which look just awesome, but I'm not gonna tell you what they are (NOSEY GITS!!!!) . The 
 enemies are another key part to this game, the headcrabs, the vortigaunts, the gargantua, the big 
 momma, there's loads and loads and loads and loads and (annoyed grunt) loads of them in the corridors 
 of Black Mesa, so keep your gun barrel up, THAT MEANS NO, REPEAT, NO OVERTIME!!!! Lazy idiots. 
 After beating this game, I just wanted to play again. So I played it again, and it felt like I'd 
 never played it before. Awesome feeling.
  
  So, get Half Life. I mean it. Come on, if you haven't played it, you can't call yourself much of 
 a gamer can you? BUY IT GODDAMNIT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  It took years to make and some of us thought it was never going to be released, but when it did 
 it delivered. Half-Life is a FPS, developed by Valve and uses the Quake 2 engine. It provides a 
 wonderful single-player campaign that puts you in the role of a young MIT graduate named Gordon 
 Freeman. You work at the hidden research facility, The Black Mesa compound, where you are part 
 of a science team studying portals to other dimensions. Soon after beginning a typical day, something 
 goes terribly wrong during a experiment which causes a catastrophic failure to erupt throughout 
 the base. Your objective is clear that you must survive the onslaught and make it out of the compound 
 alive.
  
  Along the way you will pick up an arsenal of weapons ranging from basic government issued arms 
 to prototype energy weapons. Everything from shotguns, mp5s and even trip mines give you plenty 
 of different ways to deploy tactical kills on your enemy. You will also be able to use some of 
 the invading alien's weapons which include a severed arm that shoots killer bugs and little critters 
 that act as heat-seeking ankle bitters. All of the weapons are well designed and have strengths 
 and weaknesses, but all of them are loads of fun and provide plenty of options for mayhem. 
  
  The AI opponents start out with basic aliens including one called a "head crab", which reminds 
 me of the face sucker in Alien. These "head crabs" can attach themselves (and will) to egg-head 
 scientists, thus causing a metamorphic change in their host's structure and provides them with 
 full control of motor functions. Its ideas like this that make Half-Life one of the best single-player 
 experiences of the late 90's. About half way through the game the military becomes involved. Crack 
 marine squads are thrown into the mix and provide a 3-way faction war between the invaders and 
 yourself. The AI for these marines is amazing. They work together as teams, give each other orders, 
 and make sure you have no where to hide. 
  
  At the time that Valve was developing Half-Life, the Quake 2 engine was already starting to see 
 signs of aging. They added a plethora of new interactive objects including ones that can be moved 
 around levels to solve puzzles. Character models have animations for their mouths when they speak. 
 The scripting is excellent and a real joy to watch them play out. About the only thing I didn't 
 like about the overhaul of the engine was the included physics for running that were also used 
 in Quake 2. I never did like it, as your character's movement feels as if you are running on ice, 
 which causes you to have a nasty fall at times in tight, high up situations.
  
  Along with the wonderful single-player experience, Half-Life has allot to offer for the multiplayer 
 gamer. The game originally came packaged with a simple deathmatch type gameplay with different 
 options. Through the years, the dedicated mod community has come up with a large amount of different 
 add-ons to extend the game. Some of these, such as Counter Strike and Day of Defeat, have gone 
 on to become part of future commercial releases of Valve products. Now with the addition of Steam, 
 Half-Life's multiplayer portion has gone beyond revolutionary.
  
  There are many ways to still get Half-Life. The basic game itself is dirt cheap and you are bound 
 to find it in at least one packaged deal if buying other Valve games. For those who have gone on 
 to play Half-Life 2, they still come back to this game just for the gameplay. For those who have 
 yet to experience Half-Life, you are in for a treat. There should be no reason for anyone out there 
 not own Half-Life, at least if you are a serious game collector. Half-Life spear headed the FPS 
 genre and changed the way we played them forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentel
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who call himself a expert in FPS and never played HL should be locked in a prison. Till it 
 get a copy from steam, of course.
  
  It bring history to the FPS , not jus ol'plain alien kill (of course , its fun but not all frm a 
 FPS)
  
  You have a brand numbers of weapons to use in different aliens. Want crowbar a alien to death? Go 
 ahead! Want to disintegrate someone? grab the gluon gun and you are good to go! Want just a normal 
 machine gunfight with some enemy soldiers? No problems! You can go many things with the aliens, even 
 with your friends scientists and you fellow weakling barney.
  
  This game is not just mindless aliens and stupid grunts massacre too, the physics puzzles make 
 it interesting, make you "Kill-a-Tron" part of brain work together with the rest.
  
  It marked the FPS forever. This game is like doom. More 10 years from now and still going to be a 
 perfectly playable game, with a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomgas
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  not only this game is as perfect as a fps can be, but it's also a great game besides the fps. other's 
 say it's graphics are bad, the voice acting is repetitive, the models are the same all along the 
 game. i say they've never played a game that has more than 10 years. when i started playing games, 
 the prince of persia (the original, not that super 3d crap they make this days) was revolutionary. 
 i remember playing wolfenstein 3d with my father both amazed on the freaking graphics, and every 
 level was exactly the same but bigger and more confusing. i don't remember monkey island having 
 voices at all, or doom having a lot more of characters. and those who say the story isn't good, 
 they can just suck my balls. it has one of the best storylines ever. i can understand if someone 
 doesn't like it, but it's like the beatles: you may not like them, but you must admit it's the 
 greatest band ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the single player review from the source version
  
  I was a bit concerned at first playing this game since it's a 10 years old game and since I've 
 already went through half life 2 first..... but after reading all the hype surrounding the first 
 one and myself wanting to know a bit more about the story, I decided to give it a try and don't 
 regret at all those well spent gaming hours.
  
  PROS: 
  -Awesome story, a heck of a ride through many many different environments and situations.... those 
 are the principal ingredients for one pretty interesting adventure which will last you a solid 
 20 hours if you're like me and want to see everything a game as to offer.
  
  -Interesting puzzles (but too many, and too many using jumps)
  
  -Nice special effects (for 
 a 10 years old game of course)
  
  -enemy AI is pretty good for a 10 years old game 
  
  -intense firefights with a good mix of various enemies
  
  -really interesting arsenal and fun 
 to use all of them
  
  CONS:
  -boring moments
  
  -physic feels awkward at times, and at some points it can get pretty frustrating
  
  -dated 
 graphics and sounds (those should be obvious)
  
  -too many puzzles and too many using jumps 
  
  -friendly AI is weak
  
  So overall, this 
 game, even if it's 10 years old, is pretty impressive and any fps gamer should give this game a 
 try and specially if you're into scifi stories 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  This game did its job well in putting you inside the game, not because of the detailed graphics 
 or the voice acting but because of all the different events happening right in front of you while 
 you move around the place. Few games ever recreated this style.
  
  Half Life is a of puzzle solving game to a adventure game to a shooter game, and sometimes they 
 are all mixed up together. The puzzle part is laid out in a way that the players can solve it by 
 just using their common sense. Adventure in a sense that there is no text briefing, meaning that 
 you have to actually listen to the people talking to you in the game, while the story keeps on 
 moving. As for action part, it is the icing of the game, where you fight your way through countless 
 enemies while delivering different approaches, unique threats, and many ways to beat every time.
 
  
  The game takes you from corridors of the laboratories to the mazes of the waste factories to the 
 weird world of the aliens. This game is not only diverse in what it can throw at you but where 
 it can throw you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mamba219
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  PLEASE NOTE: Firstly, I am only reviewing the single-player aspect of the game. Secondly, I am 
 using the High Definition Pack with regards to graphics, and, as such, can only judge the graphics 
 based on this, and not its 1998 originals.
  
  Half-Life, a game that apparently redefined a genre, is... really interesting. Frankly, I can't 
 entirely recommend it. The game goes through continual points of excitement, followed by long lulls 
 where it is extremely boring and tedious. The puzzles in this game mostly involve a great deal 
 of jumping, which, in my humble opinion, is a terrible thing when you're talking about first-person 
 games for two reasons: first, it's way more difficult to gauge the jump, and second, you have no 
 idea whether or not the jump is safe or not. I'm going to try a step-by-step approach to this review, 
 first telling what I liked about the game, then what I didn't like, then what should have been 
 improved.
  
  Half-Life has a lot going for it. The environments are extremely realistic for a video game, much 
 less a 10 year old video game. The enemies are really fun to fight, and there are lots of them 
 thrown at you in various combinations throughout the game. The story is an interesting one, and 
 is presented in a very interesting manner throughout. The weapons are uniformly fun and I can't 
 really think of a single one of them that wasn't fun to experiment with and use. Overall, this 
 game had a great deal of potential, which a lot of people seem to think it unqualifiably met.
 
  
  Here's the problem as I see it: the game involves very little direction and expects a great deal 
 from the player, which tends to be frustrating. I frequently found myself wandering around in increasing 
 frustration wondering what I was supposed to do next. Not only that, but a great deal of the game 
 (particularly toward the very end) revolves around these very mediocre platforming sequences, which, 
 as I said, really don't work. After dying countless times during one of these, I basically blurted 
 out two words that I'm sure most people would never think to hear with regards to Half-Life: "this 
 sucks".
  
  Yes, that's right, aspects of this game just plain suck. I can think of numerous instances where 
 game defects (also known as glitches) brought my enjoyment of the game to a screeching halt. One 
 in particular stands out, because I had to literally quit the game, search on the internet for 
 half an hour as to a solution for it, and find out that the only way to bypass this one glitch 
 is to abuse ANOTHER glitch that happens in the same area! Shoddy designing like this is just inexcusable. 
 Not only that, but it feels like they just frequently padded the game with extremely tedious jumping 
 puzzles. If it feels like I'm ranting with regards to the frequency of these puzzles, it's because 
 there are just so many near the end that it's just mind boggling.
  
  It seems so obvious, really. All they really needed to do with regards to making this game better 
 is to replace the vast majority of these frustrating jumping puzzles with firefights, which are 
 always fun. That, and bugtesting, you know, would have gone a long way, particularly since I'm 
 playing a version of the game that was actually revamped three years after the fact. I can only 
 imagine what the original game was like.
  
  I enjoyed a lot with regards to this game. The firefights and strategies you are forced to utilize 
 are quite fun, but then they degenerate the game into mindless wandering and jumping puzzles. It 
 frequently seemed like two people designed the levels and that one of them was big on fun, and 
 the other on tedium.
  
  It's a game I don't regret playing, but don't really have any desire to ever put myself through 
 again. Strictly average.
  
  EDIT: With more time came more realization about how much this game is paced, hence the drastic 
 change in score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADDADAC
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. You start out playing as scientist, Gordon Freeman who is apparently taking 
 part of some expirement. But the expirement goes horribly wrong. So you automatticly start trying 
 ecaspe the horror but even that goes wrong so you thedn put in the middle of stopping this nightmare. 
 In this game you really feel like you're Gordon Freeman and you also feel like you are witnessing 
 the worst accident in history. One of the best parts of the game that there are alot parts where 
 you feel 'Wow I can't belevie I did that!' and another great part is that there are no real cutscenes, 
 everything you do you see out of the eyes of Gordon Freeman. The ending is also amazing. It is 
 unpredictable unless you've already seen the ending before you play. This game is one of the best 
 game ever and I easily recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefieldguy9
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Half Life reinvented the genre. And not just the first person genre, but every game that tells 
 a story. And not many games have reached it's level of immersiveness. The gameplay was brilliant 
 to a point where every game released soon afterwards rarely satisfied PC gamers. They just kept 
 coming back to Black Mesa and a crowbar. The graphics were some of the best ever seen at the time. 
 But it wasn't just the graphics, but the level of detail the developers managed to place into every 
 little corner in the game.
  The cinematic quality is still some of the best and most immersive seen in a game. Looking through 
 an office window to see a zombie stalking an unknowing scientist while the player pounds fruitlessly 
 on the glass with a crowbar in an attempt to rescue the poor fellow just hadn't been done before. 
 The companion AI was not brilliant nor the voice acting superb but it was the believable nature 
 of Barny or your fellow scientists that caused players to actually lead and protect them through 
 the entire game. Half Life revolutionized the gaming world and has become without a doubt one of 
 the most successful games of all time. If you own a PC then there is no question that you should 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteamPipe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Half Life is one of the best games ever created. It is revolutionary and features something different 
 instead of mindless shooting. You are Gordan Freeman a scienctist who has to escape a laboratory 
 in the middle of the desert called Black Mesa. The reason why you have to escape is because after 
 a experiment has gone horribly wrong, hundreds of aliens from Xen have been released into this 
 laboratory. To make it worse a military force comes to clean up the mess and kill everything in 
 the labatory, including you. Throughout the game you must solve many puzzles, which you wont see 
 in any first person shooter these days. That is why Half Life is so revolutionary because you need 
 to think more than shoot. Half Life's multiplayer is fun and worth playing for yourself. Half Life 
 is a must buy for anyone who likes games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilcupcake
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  ahhh back in 1998 gordon freeman going down into his top secret laboratoy
  all to make a mistake that changed the fake and the real world forever okay im going to say this 
 once HALF LIFE IS THE BEST VIDEO GAME OF ALL TIME! this thing is amazing the pure quality of solving 
 complex puzzles endless boss fights and isint that annoying to die this my friends is pure genious 
 there is nothing really bad to say about this game seriously weapons work greatstory line is phonmal 
 and even tops off smg and COD4
  plese dont get pissed at me for saying that because its true the whole thing is like a freak of 
 nature its just perfect and the multi player is the same not even better extremely fast pace adrinle 
 rsh go in to u every time you kill a noob beautiful the only thing bad about this game is that 
 it took up alot of space because of all the saves aand messed up my computer but thats just my 
 crappy rig if you have a pc a monitor a mouse and a power source u need this game
  
  
  -cupcake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0VAWLIMIT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I don't think anyone out there will try to argue too much with me when I say Half-Life is one of 
 the greatest FPS games of all time. And for once, I won't try to argue with them either. This game 
 really is great. From the moment you begin the single-player storyline, you become Gordon Freeman, 
 seeing everything from his eyes, and everything you see is real enough to keep you believing, right 
 up until the end. The storyline unfolds before your eyes instead of being told to you, and it's 
 decent enough to keep the game full of variety... which it is. In Half-Life, you never know what 
 might be waiting around the next corner. It begins by dropping you into a gondola ride with a narrator 
 describing the Black Mesa Facility like a Disney World ride, with a bit of tongue-in-cheek humor 
 present as you explore the scientific facility and cause a little mayhem here and there. Then, 
 after an experiment goes awry, all hell breaks loose, and you have to run and gun for your life. 
 Aliens appear when you least expect it, you're constantly encountering new types of enemies and 
 having to rethink your gameplay strategy to match them, and all of this is pervaded by a fantastic 
 atmosphere that makes you really believe you're in the middle of this facility, all but alone, 
 fighting for your very survival. This is what makes the game, in my opinion, still far superior 
 to its sequel, which too often has you fighting the same enemies over and over, with a host of 
 talkative allies at your side. Some criticize the last few levels of Half-Life, but personally 
 I found them greatly unexpected, and an awesome "end" to the storyline, at least for the first 
 game. When it's all said and done, there's still the huge online community to explore, including 
 the countless mods that have been made for the game, some single and many multi-player. Simply 
 put, if you haven't played Half-Life, you haven't played an FPS... and you don't know what you're 
 missing. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffgarrett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I found the Platinum Collection for 5 bucks. Played it for about an hour. Some of the content bugged 
 me, so I put it down. Several weeks later, with nothing else to do, I picked it up again, and have 
 played it several times since then. The game sets up its story very well from the beginning, and 
 it is told in a way that keeps you interested up to the end. All the scenes are integrated well 
 with the action, and the omission of cutscenes is great for keeping the action going as well as 
 adding to the realism. Half Life has a great blend of storyline, gameplay, graphics, and puzzle 
 solving. It is a rare, original game which has set standards across the genre and is highly recommended 
 for newcomers and veterans alike. Note to those considering passing on a game: You might be passing 
 on the next Half Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The game that evolutionized the PC game market. Half-Life is the known to be the best PC game EVER. 
 With the hundreds of mods and expansions, Half-Life lives on. Half-Life has it all. The Best storyline, 
 the best graphics (At its time) , the best gameplay experience, best sound, etc. I still today play 
 this game, almost five years later. If you do not have Half-Life then go out and buy the platinum 
 edition NOW!!! You won't be sorry. I can't possibly give Half-life or its many expansions less 
 then a 10.0. Play it and you'll know why. With Half-Life 2 fully announced, Half-Life will continue 
 to traditionalize the PC game market. With the dozens of screen-shots I've seen of Half-Life 2 
 it looks like Valve will pull off yet another killer game. Valve has been working on Half-Life 
 2 for almost five years now, and it really shows of in quality. So while waiting for Half-Life 
 2, enjoy the totally awesome Half-Life Platinum collection of Half-Life. I sure did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  castle wolfenstein is lot better when u compare it with half-life. but it is the gameply, the feeling 
 of being involved in the real time shooting with hideous and creepy enemies always looking out 
 for you. scary dear, very scary!
  money is not a problem dude but it is the return ,quality gameply and i would say the game just 
 makes up in that regard. but amazing special effects and not so predictable creatures who make me 
 a half-life ups no brainer. take the rod and spank, spank, spank is all i can sayyy! 
  thanks for reviewing my post and love you all.
  well members whats your take on al-qaeeda and 
 osama bin laden. was daniel pearl victim of conspiracy? plz feel free to post your views on the community"e-views" 
 of orkut at www. orkut. com. lets come closer and put a united front against terror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visanbogdan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review ever and i do it because of the respect i hold for this great game. 
  A have to say that this is the first FPS i have ever played and it is the one that made me play 
 shooters in the first place.
  It was back in the late year of 1998 when a friend of mine came to me with this game, (i have heard 
 of these kind of games (FPS) before but never had the pleasure to try them) and told me about it. 
 At first i didn't played it to much before i would erased it, and after some history, about 2 or 
 3 years later i've reinstalled it and i tried to enjoy it, and i did. From then after i have played 
 it a few times over and i have to say i was enjoying it as much as i enjoyed it the first time.
 
  
  Story: 
  The beginning of the story holds back for you and you will never now what is to happen until you 
 walk in Black Mesa, you don't even know who you really are until those that surrounds you greets 
 you and tell you that you have to do some kind of experiment. The story develops all the time and 
 your path constantly changes or holds you until you find a way to continue it. The only thing you 
 know for sure is when the experiment goes wrong and "hell" brakes loose, you know you have to survive 
 what ever the cost and try to save and straighten all the bad things that you've done. Actually 
 that is the beauty of the story, it will never be the same again and the story doesn't end well 
 for everyone. You only remain with the hope or the idea that it is going to end well (by the way 
 i hate good ends because they are never totally true, even if i am an optimistic person) . The events 
 in this game are epic in some way and they are never to short, you will find yourself in various 
 difficult situations and i have to say that this is one of the few games that sends you back from 
 your path to change something for the good of your journey. In the last scene of the game when 
 you talk with G-Man it looks like it will not end whatever is the path you chose. 
  
  Graphics:
  They are well done and for that time they were among the best there was, nice weapon 
 skins, characters are also good even if clones are everywhere.
  
  Sounds: 
  Well put sounds and a variety pf them, i like that they've even made a sound for the cockroaches 
 you step on. I think that music wasn't necessarily here because it doesn't need it.
  
  Game play and AI:
  The game play is rather unique in specially for the jump and duck move it 
 is very helpfully for the game and made it quite simple, setting traps, moving objects, switches, 
 all of that made tha game fun to play and easy to handle.
  The Ai is remarkable even today they are not only blind puppets shooting at you, they are constantly 
 in the move, they run for cover, trying to flank you and take you by surprise. The enemies are 
 a various pack of fighting arsenal they are lots of them and with different abilities, from body 
 armour and weapons to agility, weight, height, and speed. All of these enemy characters must be 
 taken care of differently. this is a game where all of your weapons will be used almost equally. 
 The only issue is from the helping characters of the game. If there is a wall between you and them 
 they will not follow and they will not be capable in finding the way back to you.
  
  All in all this is a piece of art not just a game and it should be put in the first place of "Oldies 
 but Goldies" 
  
  One more thing i have to say, the game wouldn't have been the same without the blue sack coat dressed 
 mysterious guy and the red crowbar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is a name that has been thrown around a lot lately, since Half-Life 2 was released and 
 its subsequent expansions. Many people never had the opportunity to see where this series began 
 (including myself) , and though this game is almost 10 years old, it stands the test of time and 
 remains a very fun and atmospheric first-person shooter.
  
  The game starts off simply enough. You are an intelligent scientist assigned to a secret lab to 
 do some experiments. This game does not tell you the story through cutscenes and text, the way 
 it is told is through in-game dialogue, scenes, and little hints given throughout the game. The 
 liberty with which this game takes its story-telling might put off some, but in practice it works 
 very well. It gives you the feeling that Gordon would have, of absolutely helplessness. In real 
 life you will not be told everything about every little event that happens around you, and oftentimes 
 you have to come to conclusions based on your own personal observations. That is how this game 
 treats the story, and it does it wonderfully. The story is fairly simple, until you get to the 
 last fourth of the game, in which things begin to fall together and get a little more complicated, 
 which is explored further in its sequel.
  
  Before you try approaching this game with negative criticism due to its graphics, consider it's 
 age. It was released in late 1998, and you can't expect perfect graphics out of it. With that being 
 said, it looks very good. The monsters all show a great level of cretivity, the few bosses are 
 well made and there is a very nice variety of environments. the one problem plagued in this game 
 is the community. You will see about 3-4 different models of scientists, and you will see PLENTY 
 of these same 3-4 models running around everywhere. To make matters worse, there is only one model 
 for the security guard. So when it comes to seeing variety in the NPCs in the game, there is a 
 major lack there. Still, it is the only real complaint I can make out of this game from a graphical 
 perspective.
  
  The game sounds great as well, though sometimes there will be a little bit of choppiness to the 
 sound. I am not sure if this is because of my sound card or because of Steam or merely because 
 of trying to run the game on XP, which it was not originally built for, but it can be a little 
 annoying sometimes. This problem generally clears up after a few minutes of playtime though. The 
 voice acting in this game is nowhere near exceptional, and there isn't a whole lot of it, but there 
 are some conversations that especially stand out as being good, while the rest are ok. The sound 
 effects are another story though, with wonderful effects for the guns and monster sounds, to the 
 wonderful ambience you will hear throughout the game. To top everything off, is the absolutely 
 magnificent soundtrack, that plays during key moments of the game and is always perfectly fitting.
 
  
  As for how the game runs, on most systems now, it should run on max settings without any problems 
 at all. This game was the first of its kind, to offer no levels, but instead, continous areas that 
 are merely plagued with a few load points from one area to another, and these load points don't 
 last for more than a couple of seconds, so they are very pleasant transitions, much more acceptable 
 than finishing a level and waiting for a minute to load the next.
  
  The AI in this game is also nothing fancy by today's standards, but is fairly good for its time, 
 especially for the humans, who know when to throw grenades, when to charge and when to run and 
 hide. The gunplay in this game is also pleasantly challenging. The game is never impossible, but 
 it is never easy either, so it does a great job of forcing you to stay on your toes, so that every 
 cleared area feels like a real accomplishment, while never feeling like a chore. Speaking of which, 
 the puzzles are integrated beautifully. There are tons of fun puzzles throughout the game that 
 are fun to navigate and are never mind-boggling. Thanks to this and the combat, the game really 
 never gets boring, and you will likely find that when you get to the end, even with the respectable 
 length, it'll be over too soon.
  
  As for the multiplayer, it is alright. It is nothing unique, with the basic deathmatch set in specially 
 made maps for that purpose, using the same wonderful weapons from singleplayer (which there are 
 quite a few of by the way, all useful for different situations) . Due to mods, there is a lot more 
 fun to be had from the multiplayer, but overall, there is nothing unique about the deathmatch experience. 
 This does not mean it is bad, it just isn't different. Also included is something called Deathmatch 
 Classic, which is essentially the original Quake's deathmatch, in the Half-Life engine. This is 
 a wonderful addition that gives those of us that never get tired of Quake's deathmatch, another 
 way to enjoy it. Still, between the 2 multiplayer games, you still won't find much new. 
  
  With the single-player clocking in at anywhere from 10-20 hours, depending on how good of a problem 
 solver you are and how cautious of a player you are, and with the multiplayer, you can expect to 
 spend a decent amount of time with it. This game doesn't get old either, so you may find yourself 
 coming back to it later to play again, it is just too bad that the multiplayer is not too original. 
 Either way, if you are into FPS games, then this is a game you should definately have in your collection, 
 because a lot of FPS borrows from this game, it will likely never die. Even if you are not into 
 FPS games, this game should still be in your collection, unless you absolutely cannot handle FPS 
 gameplay and/or violence. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Dementia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the first to portray a story in a smooth and convincing way. The weapons are 
 nicely balanced with no uberpowerful weapons to blow though the campaign. First time is the best 
 though playing at midnight or later to scare the headcrab out of you. The only thing wrong with 
 the game is some bugs in your positioning, sometimes running alone a wall you stick on it, but 
 only happens once in a very long time, and mostly when you crouch down under a switch. But other 
 then that, there isn't anything bad I can say about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I felt compelled to make the first game on my new PC a classic. One I felt guilty about not having 
 played. This isn't my first foray into PC gaming but I still am relatively new. This was probably 
 the perfect game to immerse myself into the world of PC gaming for not just a here and there dabble, 
 but permanently.
  Half-Life boasts a story of a single, silent protagonist. The character Gordon Freeman is everyman 
 enough, yet has a smart, scientific look to him that makes it interesting to play as this character. 
 I forgot at times that my character never talked during numerous times where there should have 
 been dialogue it was left to NPC characters to play out the story, and they all played their part.
 
  A backdrop of dramatic trans-siberian and/or early techno music cued during dramatic parts or 
 after climatic parts of the story and are very catchy, and stand alone as scores of music you could 
 still throw on today while relaxing and be reminded of Gordon Freeman's trip though what was a 
 pretty solitary military/science complex.
  However, the settings never suffer from repetition through the first 3/4 of the game and Valve 
 did an excellent job in pacing players through these locations as well as adding alot of variety 
 to the beautifully crafted environments. I don't really have any knocks on the graphics or locations. 
 What felt artificial should have, and you were never just running through hallways. You were running 
 through hallways that were blocked had to search for alternate routes such as air ducts or a combination 
 of small platforming elements. In one scene where you are moving alongside a cliff and have to 
 platform to the next locale my heart probably went up 20 BPM at the final staircase.
  This is what Half-Life is. Set pieces of story or scare tactics that lack cut scenes so you may 
 or may not see them all, but they aid you and it felt alot more immersive. Just as you are on the 
 edge of your seat, moving at a steady pace, something breaks through a wall or drops out of a ceiling. 
 It is up to you to stay in your seat at those moments.
  My only knocks on this well polished game was the enemy AI of soldiers on normal difficulty. They 
 were smart enough to move in groups, but still had a gung-ho personality to where you could camp 
 around corners knowing that most of the time they'd give chase. The other knock is that you can 
 save anywhere and come to it instead of just at checkpoints. I found myself immersed and forgetting 
 to save at some points though, which is a testament to how well this title can draw you in.
  The later levels give way to more platforming yet still manage to feel very epic. Sound was crisp 
 and moved through the speakers as it should. Voice acting was decent and repetitive but still got 
 the job done. Graphics were superb, even in this day and age. Gameplay is a fine mix of FPS and 
 slight platforming elements, with some brain racking over how to advance on. Very slick addition 
 instead of pop up hints or blatant signs or arrows to areas that shouldn't have them and you may 
 not find them until after a 3rd or 4th run through of the level. 
  Overall, it is a must play and deserves all the credit people still give it to this day. It isn't 
 vain and isn't a game that is only fun because of nostalgia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  As each new section or level is reached, the game pauses to load it, making for massive, seamless 
 environments. Nearly all levels are located in or around the Black Mesa Research Facility, including 
 subterranean railroads, laboratories, ventilation shafts, cafeterias, missile silos, and eventually 
 the aliens' home world. The diverse range of enemies includes tank-like warrior spore plants, headcrabs, 
 and possessed scientists, just to name a few. Horror novelist Marc Laidlaw's storyline tells a 
 chilling tale of government scandal and experiments gone wrong.
  
  As if the protagonist of the story, Gordon Freeman, doesn't have enough on his hands with the varying 
 cadre of foes, he's being hunted by marines and government assassins as well. As Freeman, you need 
 to find weapons to survive. The arsenal includes a melee wrench, pistol, shotgun, assault rifle, 
 rocket and grenade launcher, and various alien armaments scavenged off dead soldiers. Unlike many 
 first-person shooters, health and ammunition packs are located in sensible locations. First aid 
 kits are attached to walls in medical laboratories, while ammunition is logically found in weapon 
 depots or on dead marines. Your protective suit acts as armor and can be replenished in certain 
 locales.
  
  Half-Life uses a modified version of id Software's Quake engine (combined with about 50 lines of 
 code from the Quake 2 engine) , resulting in realistic levels and locations with fearsome aliens 
 waiting to end your struggle at every turn. While the game is flawless, the online deathmatch aspect 
 suffered initially from high server latency, later fixed through a series of patches. Winning over 
 50 Game of the Year awards and named best game of all time by PC Gamer magazine, Half-Life is an 
 extraordinary achievement that established the benchmark for future games in the genre. 
  
  Half-Life takes the first person shooter genre a step into the future. Though it is only running 
 on an advanced version of the Quake II engine, it does away with the traditional flow of level 
 to level gameplay. Instead, it vows for one big, long level from start to end. It's also more realistic 
 than it's predecessors in that weapons and items are laid out more scarcely and logically. The 
 game itself was definitely inspired by lots of horror and science fiction books and movies because 
 of the organic monsters and laboratory and alien settings.
  
  Half-Life is easily the best first-person shooter to date (circa 1998) . The environment is fantastic, 
 it's scary, it's creepy and you really become immersed in its world. The game is also incredibly 
 fun because of the excellent AI, fantastic weapons and monsters and a fabulous story line. 
  
  Valve obviously spent a lot of time researching to see what the other first person shooter 
 games have done in the past. They apparently took note that almost every single game in this genre 
 is set up the exact same way -- go from level to level, pick up the weapons and power-ups strewn 
 about and kill lots of mindless enemies. They decided to break this trend and in Half-Life, this 
 fact is evident.
  
  Instead of traversing from level to level, the game itself consists of one large, interactive setting. 
 You start in the research laboratory and continue to progress through and out of the facility, 
 reach the outside and even visit alien worlds. It is all done seamlessly and without any level 
 progression at all (each portion is broken into segments that flow into one another) . Because of 
 this, Half-Life feels immense (in a good way) and you'll become immersed in the world from start 
 to finish.
  
  To protect a sense of realistic integrity, the weapons aren't just "laying around" like in other 
 games. Instead, you'll have to be observant as the weapons are in more realistic places. For instance, 
 you'll get a pistol from a dead security guard and you'll find an experimental weapon in a research 
 laboratory or a dead critter. You can find ammo hidden within closets or lockers or even on dead 
 soldiers. And instead of picking up health packets, you can head over to a bathroom or a construction 
 area to find a health and armor recharger.
  
  Another thing that is very predominant is a sense of story and overall gameplay and flow. The story 
 line seems simple and cliched (you're a guy trying to escape with his life intact) but the way 
 it is told can only be described as impressive. Everything in Half-Life happens for a reason and 
 that reason will be presented to you once you progress through the game (via scripted sequences) . 
 
  
  As you proceed, you begin to uncover more of what really caused the sheer chaos that ensued after 
 you ran tests on the specimen -- the result is bone chilling. Throughout the game, you'll have 
 to interact with other scientists, which brings me to another point: the AI.
  
  The AI in this game is amazing. Scientists act like real people and will help you if you help them. 
 They respond to danger by running away and finding a safe place to hide. The enemies are the same 
 way. If you hurt them, they'll run and find help or they'll set up traps and ambushes for you. 
 This is very impressive if not only for the immersion factor. The monsters themselves are exceptionally 
 terrifying and they'll make you jump out of your seat often. Does the word face-hugger mean anything 
 to you? There are also marines, possessed soldiers and scientists as well as bug-like creatures.
 
  
  It isn't everyday that you come across a game that totally revolutionizes an entire genre, but 
 Half-Life has done just that. With its impressive and intricate world and texture design, downright 
 scary monsters, settings and music, unsurpassed artificial intelligence and realism, this is a 
 game that every PC owner should have. Half-Life is the real deal and the structure and design will 
 be copied for years to come. 
  
  Outstanding is the only word to describe the visuals. The textures are beautiful and capture the 
 whole environment successfully. The ambient lighting effects really add to the scare factor and 
 look great. Equally impressive are the character and monster designs. The humans are very realistic 
 looking and the critters are downright ugly (in a good way) and freaky. This game has one of the 
 best soundtracks I've ever heard in a game. It's really ambient and dark and uses lots of creepy 
 transform effects that really fit the mood of the game. The sound effects are equally great except 
 for some of the speech. For some reason, dialog is a bit scratchy but in no way does it detract 
 from the setting. Playing through the single-player game again is just as fun and challenging as 
 the first time through. There's also some pretty good online support for Half-Life and with the 
 right mods and a few patches, this game will be a dominating multi-player game for years to come.
 
  
  The only real drawback lies within the documentation. The owner's manual is pretty weak in design 
 but does tell you how to play the game. Some of the menus are a bit clunky but they're not too 
 bad. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gate131966
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  I've had this game since before Christmas, but tearing myself away from it to write these words 
 has been something of a problem. Half-life is, you see, not your average run-of-the-mill 3D action 
 shoot-em-up. Not by a long chalk. Here's why; it's got a real plot. Not just a convenient scene-setting 
 story added after the game was already written, but a real plot that guides you through the entire 
 game. It is this: as a scientist playing around with a strange new material, you and your colleagues 
 accidentally set off a reaction that allows creatures from other dimensions to enter ours. And 
 they're not the nicest of beings, many of them resembling a cross between a Lovecraft nightmare 
 and a Giger painting.
  
  Initially, your goal is to get from the underground research facility to the surface, to warn the 
 government and get help for your injured colleagues. Other scientists help you along the way - 
 artificial intelligence is big in this game, for the goodies and particularly for the baddies - 
 but ultimately it's up to you to make good the damage. The first clue you get that perhaps the 
 government doesn't want you to survive is when a tall bloke in a suit appears on a walk-way, totally 
 unfazed by the face-hugging little squatters bouncing around on the floor beneath him. He's gone 
 by the time you get up there, of course, but that's just the start of the nightmare.
  f you're the sort of player who loves constant carnage with a continuing barrage of enemy creations 
 ready to throw themselves blithely onto your boom-stick, you might as well stop reading now. Half-Life 
 is a bit more intelligent than that. There are the occasional puzzles to solve; none of them are 
 exceptionally taxing (Hexen II this is not) but you do sometimes have to think before you shoot. 
 And you don't instantly get access to all the weaponry, either. Starting off with nothing but a 
 protective suit, you then graduate to a crow-bar before stumbling across increasingly-powerful 
 projectile weapons. But as the weapons get more powerful, so do the enemy creatures.
  
  Half-Life is thoroughly engrossing. The scene-setting at the start really makes you feel part of 
 the action as the lone scientist trying to escape from a new form of Hell. If the description 'interactive 
 movie' hadn't been utterly discredited a long time ago, it would go some way towards describing 
 this game, but by no means far enough. This is Quake II with a plot, Unreal with realism, and every 
 gamer should have a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Wow i never played this game but i have seen Halflife being played by my friends on their outdated 
 computers at the time. Plus this game is so old now Halflife 2 has an orange box out now lol. I 
 also seen this game online and the gamers are so cheesy with their mods and the moment you step 
 foot online you are dead and you might get lucky to move just a little bit before getting killed 
 by hard core gamers online. This was a great game at the time and always will be remembered. Now 
 since i am too late to play this game myself i am going to get a copy of Halflife 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fauxjangles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Ahh, we all remember Half Life. If you've not yet played it, this may contain a bit of spoilers, 
 so be wary. Assuming you've played HL2 though, then don't worry too much.
  
  First thing I thought when I started up Half-Life was, Man, I bet I'm just going to be playing 
 with test tubes and crap... 
  
  That feeling lasts awhile, until you put on your HEV suit. Then you start thinking that test tubes 
 are not your agenda today. They tell you to goto the test chamber . A typical day of placing unknown 
 minerals under a strange beam of light turns out to be not so typical. You soon find yourself in 
 rubble, and find some of your co-workers killed. By what? Not quite clear yet... you meet up shortly 
 with Eli Vance, then your mission is to get to the surface. Everything from there on out is why 
 Half-Life was so great... I was particularly fond of the Office Complex.
  
  All in all, Half-Life is still one of my all-time favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Avery
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This game sets the bar to what all other first person shooters should have been, should be and 
 maybe one day will be. This game single handedly set a bar, a line to which all other first person 
 games and possibly all games in general should strive to be. It makes you think, it makes you work 
 for it and in the end you sit back and wonder why nothing else seems to compare to how great this 
 game truly is, even compared to modern day games like Halo 1-2-3. Valve outdid itself with this, 
 and it is possible that this game may possible be the best game, or at leas the best first person 
 shooter of all time... and it deserves every award it had ever been given.
  
  Nothing short of perfection describes this game. Period. If you disagree, then I feel that you 
 have spoiled yourself with other, more modern mildless games, or simply cannot see past your own 
 ego to see everything wrong with anything you touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zubidoo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  1998's Half-Life is truly a masterpiece of gaming that unfortunately has not reached enough of 
 the masses. You needed a computer (expensive) as opposed to an inexpensive N64 to play Ocarina 
 of Time, and as a result only a select group of people could really play Half-Life. If you were 
 one of those unlucky few, you NEED to play this game (get the Source version) !
  
  What exactly makes Half-Life such an amazing game? Let's start with the gameplay. Despite featuring 
 many of the standard guns found in all of the corridor shooters of the time, you get new gadgets 
 such as trip mines, controllable rocket launchers (i. e. you can move the missile in mid-air) , experimental 
 weapons (well, the tau cannon) , alien homing guns and insects (little critters you drop on the 
 ground that chase other players or enemies) and grenade launchers. Everything is incredibly easy 
 to control. As a minor new introduction to gameplay you can get the long-jump to jump to ledges 
 placed far away. Now none of these things would matter much if the actual gameplay wasn't good, 
 and it's amazing that it is. Every level flows into the other, as opposed to older shooters that 
 all had stages that needed load screens and the like. This was pretty revolutionary for the time 
 and is still a very good concept that most shooters today don't even use for some odd reason. Also, 
 the AI in this game is surprisingly good! I consider myself a pro in gaming in general but especially 
 shooters, and even I still have trouble not dying against the marines and their turrets and some 
 of the aliens. The marines are especially smart in the tactics they use - they will chase you down, 
 seek cover and even throw grenades while under cover! They definitely don't go down without a fight. 
 The alien levels are especially hard, although one level in particular is a bit too hard to the 
 point of annoyance (lots of trial-and-error in the factory level) . However, it's not enough to 
 kill the game.
  
  The graphics are obviously dated, but they still look great and, most importantly, FEEL great today. 
 They don't look out of place, and the palette and atmosphere created here is hard to describe but 
 suits the game perfectly. When you're in Xen you feel like you're on alien world. When you're in 
 the desert canyon wall you FEEL like you will fall a thousand feet to your doom. While you're walking 
 down Black Mesa you feel the isolation and loneliness of your character being the only one alive 
 essentially. The atmosphere is perfect for a game this old (get the Source version, though, for 
 the best graphics yet) . The cutscenes are all done in-game (another first for the genre) and are 
 all very convincing and oftentimes curiously well-done and written (I especially love listening 
 to the G. I.'s conversation after they capture Gordon) . There are numerous graffiti writings in 
 the game that say how much the Army fighting Gordon wants him dead, and this very effectively ups 
 the atmosphere and believablity of the game world. As a game engine it is incredibly solid and 
 by this point anyone can run the game very very smoothly.
  
  The music and sound effects are genius! The score itself is very effective and somehow reflects 
 the environment you're in whether it's the mysterious intro theme or the action packed adrenaline 
 rush music in battles. The game also knows when to play the quiet role. The sound effects somehow 
 remain incredibly memorable after all these years (on par with Mario's jumping sound effect from 
 the first NES game) . You'll love and recognize the mp5, rocket launcher and explosion effects pretty 
 instantly. It's amazing how a game so old could have a soundtrack as good as this.
  
  The story itself is fascinating and is all told in-game through in-game cutscenes. There are also 
 numerous writings on the computers or walls that help flesh the story out if you happen to notice 
 them (which helps the replayability of the single-player mode) . The story itself is a little cliche 
 at the beginning with an experiment going wrong and you are the one to stop the aftermath, but 
 the way it is portrayed and all the little extra tidbits you can look out for in the levels make 
 it much better than you might expect. The G-Man in particular is one of the coolest and most mysterious 
 characters in gaming introduced here who pops up in random places throughout the game. Who is he 
 and what does he want? You'll just have to play to get a better clue. With the introduction of 
 Half-Life 2 (another masterpiece I'd say) and its expansions, the story gets even better with the 
 new knowledge gained from these sequels, and overall it's just a fantastic experience.
  
  The multiplayer is also surprisingly good after 10 years, even against great competition like Counter-Strike 
 (the new Counter-Strike - the old one was a mod for this game and is still very good, but I would 
 argue that the newer one is more enjoyable at this point in time) and Halo. It's purely deathmatch 
 (not counting Team Fortress which is also good) , but the variety of weapons, the easy controls 
 and all the rest of it makes it a satisfying game despite all of the competition it has faced over 
 the years. Although games like Counter-Strike and Half-Life 2: Deathmatch have essentially bettered 
 it, the original multiplayer found in Half-Life is still very enjoyable (and that's not even mentioning 
 all of the mods you can get for the game to enhance its replayability. This is one of the most 
 heavily modded games in history) .
  
  This is one of those games that you need to play in order to not only get the history of shooters 
 but also to experience what video games are capable of offering as experiences. It was revolutionary 
 in 1998 and it still holds up incredibly well today. Half-Life is a downright classic that has 
 not aged at all in the past 10 years. If you haven't played this game yet then you need to get 
 it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdavidb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I can easily recommend this game if you have never played it, and It may be hard to really put 
 in perspective nine years out, but given all the hype and high ratings I was a little disappointed. 
 I'm sure it was great when it came out, but it just doesn't come close to something like Far Cry. 
 I never had one of those 'WOW' or 'OH $#!+' moments that I experienced in other games. It's still 
 a fun shooter to play, with a good story line, nice continuous game flow, and some cool creatures 
 to deal with, but the precision jumping was a bit tedious on a few occasions. Anyway, it's really 
 cheap these days so you can't really go wrong, especially if you are new to the series and want 
 to start at the beginning before tearing into the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendlyCrono
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I played it for the first time in April of 2007. It was still great. Of course, I didn't get the 
 feel of revolutionary while playing it, but it was still very fun.
  Great weapons, story, enemies, and puzzles.
  People still play it online.
  
  Too bad my PC 
 is horrible, so I can't even play Half-Life 2 on it. I'll definitely get The Orange Box, the greatest 
 deal in video game history.
  
  Some things Half-Life did still seem fresh now because it did it so good back in 1998. One such 
 thing is in-game storytelling. This means the game has no cutscenes. The story is told while you 
 are still running around. Other games have copied that revolutionary feature from this game, but 
 it still feels amazing from a 10 year old game.
  
  It only costs $10 to buy it now through Steam. As long as you have a computer that's from the last 
 few years that's not a gaming computer, you'll run this game great on medium graphical settings.
 
  
  You owe it to yourself to go buy this game if you've never played it before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladimirgm
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to be quick and clear. The story of the First Person Shooters is divided by two. Before 
 Half Life and after Half Life. Maybe it's not the better on graphics but, beginning with original 
 and fantastic enemies who are from soldiers with military weapon to monsters from another dimension 
 which can shoot electricity, waves, some green and acid balls, or simply jump to your face, and 
 the bosses!!, they can give you a headache. We can't leave back the weapons used in this game, 
 how can I begin?, with the iron bar, with the classic 357, or the bazooka, the shotgun, the crossbow, 
 biological weapons, and my favorite: those tiny beast who attack anything, I remember that it was 
 the best weapon in the story. But we almost forget something, let's to mention all heroes of FPS, 
 all are soldiers, or a legend, or people trained. And that's the funny: the hero in this adventure 
 isn't more and less than a NERD, and his name expose him: Gordon Freeman . Well, I think I will 
 never end to talk about this game and I will only say this: Half life is the greatest FPS of all 
 time . Half life 2 lost that something, even I like more Half life: opposing force than Half life 
 2. And anybody won't dare to say there's is a better FPS. I believe in magic, and Half Life has 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dementedioser10
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  In a world where you play as a common worker, Gordon Freeman, you start off your normal day going 
 to work at the Black Mesa research facility.
  Then every thing takes a turn for the worse, your asked to put a specimen into a rotating beam 
 vortex, then the complex starts breaking apart, and to make thing worse, the army has come to shut 
 any survivors up.
  
  This is one of the best games ive played... I loved the multiple Barney Calhouns around to help 
 you... and also the multiple scientists!
  the only thing this game need is different looking character models other than the three to four 
 different scientists that you meet and the one Barny Calhoun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_cats_4_life
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Half life 1 is one of the greatest games of all time and is given full credit for it. This game 
 was a revolutionary step in pc gaming. The graphics at the time were amazing and so was the game 
 play. The story in half life is amazing and just in general this game is awesome. I still will 
 play half life 1 and its expansions, and do you know why? Because there so damn fun! Half life 
 is one of the best series of all time! I just can't stress how fun this game is! all right now 
 I'm actually gonna focus on reviewing this game. For it's time the graphics were awesome so I would 
 give them a 10. The game play is great and should get a 10 to and yea that's about it. My acual 
 score is 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  You've got to hand it to these guys. Valve Software is a start-up, a relative unknown, with no 
 track and, really, no business making such a mighty game. But mighty it is, the best single player 
 shooter I've ever played.
  
  It will be hard for some -- mainly those who haven't played the game -- to put their finger on exactly 
 what everyone is raving about. There's nothing exceptional about the engine -- it's a heavily modified 
 version of Id Software's Quake. Its genre, the first-person shooter, has nearly been beaten to 
 death. Its design couldn't be simpler: get some guns, run, shoot, jump; no laborious cutscenes 
 or misplaced RPG elements here.
  
  The weapons aren't spectacular either, just your usual array of realistic modern firearms and a 
 few alien gadgets with some new twists. The creatures in some respects are fairly standard, and 
 many of the levels have been done before. Taken separately, no particular element in Half-Life 
 shines above the rest, nothing makes or breaks the game.
  
  No, the real secret is that Half-Life is truly the sum of its parts. It takes every element in 
 this oh-so-predictable genre, re-examines it, improves it, and then meshes it with the rest to 
 create a constantly surprising, internally consistent, and always entertaining game.
  
  Here are some examples. How many games have you played where health packs, armor, ammo and guns 
 are simply lying around as if some Power-Up Santa Claus had emptied the contents of his pack on 
 the floor? You can almost hear the level designers saying to themselves, Okay, a health pack would 
 be a good item to put in this otherwise empty room. 
  
  In Half-Life, weapons and ammo are taken from dead soldiers or other logical places, like a weapons 
 locker. Armor isn't lying around in the form of glowing icons or leather helmets -- instead, you're 
 wearing a battery-powered hazard suit, but since it's a fairly standard bit of equipment in this 
 secret base, power outlets are conveniently scattered throughout the complex. Doing this makes 
 the game world feel all that much more real. The more real it feels, the more the player is sucked 
 into the game. This is called suspension of disbelief, and while few game developers seem to be 
 aware of it, Valve is and they make it work for them, over and over.
  
  How many times have you shot at a monster only to have it either grimace at you blankly, perhaps 
 firing off a few tepid shots, or slouch and drool while you pick off his comrades? Well, not here. 
 The teams of soldiers you'll fight in Half-Life have to be the toughest, most convincing enemies 
 yet seen in an action game. Where other opponents grunt incomprehensibly, these guys actually yell 
 stuff relevant to the combat, such as Fire in the Hole! or Look out! as the grenades go flying. 
 Then they actually try to get away from your grenades. And what's more, they also throw grenades 
 at you.
  
  Grenades might sound like a simple little thing to add to a game, and perhaps it is, but it adds 
 such an extra dimension to the monsters' combat ability that it's almost like playing a whole new 
 genre. Strafe, fire, strafe, fire just simply doesn't work every time. But in every other game, 
 monsters either attack hand to hand, with area affects, or most commonly, with linear shots. It 
 doesn't matter if they're shooting lasers, M-16s, or dollops of hot blue manna, it all comes in 
 a straight line, and it all can be dodged. But change the angle of attack, and it's a whole new 
 game. One little detail -- one huge difference.
  
  But that's just part of the appeal of Half-Life's enemies; unlike other games, they also cooperate. 
 Teamwork, for monsters in other games, is if they all happen to be in the same room shooting in 
 the same direction. Here, the infantry squads will split up, trying to hit you from several sides 
 while one guy keeps you pinned or lobs grenades. It's surprising how entertaining well-implemented 
 artificial intelligence can be, and it's probably worth it to play Half-Life just to fight its 
 infantry. There could be a whole game based on nothing but fighting Half-Life's infantry.
  
  Wait, there's more. How many times have you cleaned out one filthy, gory techno-dungeon, only 
 to find yourself at a door that obviously leads to yet another, even filthier, techno-dungeon? 
 How realistic is it to have obvious entrances and exits to levels -- and what is a level anyway? 
 An archaic holdover from Dungeons &amp; Dragons? A convenient way of breaking up the game world 
 so it can be loaded into memory?
  
  Half-Life does away with the arbitrary concept of levels. Instead the world feels like a continuous 
 whole, with small pauses and loads when you move from one area to another. This does create some 
 problems when monsters are placed too close to the transition between mini-levels and you inadvertently 
 strafe from one area to the other, accidentally triggering a load screen. But this problem aside, 
 Half-Life's mini-levels create a more flowing and realistic game world, and so a more immersive 
 one.
  
  And freed from the stereotypical notion of levels, the designers were free to experiment with a 
 wide variety of environments, logically linked and fun to explore. Every room isn't another corridor 
 or another slime-filled dungeon. There are labs and warehouses, monorail stations and gun bunkers, 
 missile silos and parking garages. The bulk of the action takes place in a deep underground military 
 base called the Black Mesa Facility, but it is not confined there. You'll scale a canyon cliff 
 and scamper through a military base. You'll ride weird monorails and climb through pipes full of 
 waste. Virtually every location in Half-Life is interesting and unique.
  
  This variety makes you want to keep playing Half-Life all the way through. How many times have 
 you gotten half way through another game, only to say to yourself, Eh, I've probably seen it all. 
 If I keep playing, there will only be more monsters, with more guns, more hit points and more grubby 
 levels. This is decidedly not the case with Half-Life.
  
  Carefully crafted for the single player experience, every encounter in Half-Life is a new challenge, 
 nearly every room throws out something you haven't seen before, every sound is a worrying cue that 
 something horrible is about to happen. The sheer number of hand-scripted events and little scenes 
 keeps the action moving, giving you a reason to keep playing, if only to see what could possibly 
 happen next. I haven't had so much fun playing a game in years. I have not been frightened by a 
 game in years. I have not dreaded corners like I have dreaded corners in this game in years. Half-Life 
 is a superbly ambient game.
  
  Is the game perfect? Of course not. Some of the elevators have a horrible sticking problem, and 
 the ladders can be awkward to use. Occasionally the game chokes when a huge explosion happens. 
 But these are minor problems.
  
  Slightly more serious is the character of Gordon Freeman, who is rather flat and dry. I realize 
 that the mood and feel Half-Life is very somber, very much in the mold of The X-Files, and a wisecracking 
 Duke Nukem type wouldn't have worked. As a scientist and a specialist trained to deal with hazardous 
 materials, Freeman is the right kind of character to serve as the story's alter ego, but his near 
 total lack of personality -- as far as I can recall, he never says anything in the game -- leaves a 
 little to be desired. Still, you could make a case that giving him a personality could actually 
 detract from your ability to identify with the character. And certainly, the use of cut scenes 
 or any of the other crude crutches of computer game storytelling would have detracted from the 
 relentless pace of the game and the freedom and control you have over your character.
  
  Internet play is more troubling. There's a built-in server list that works kind of like Gamespy, 
 letting you find free servers quickly, which is a classy touch, but the matches themselves feel 
 laggier than Quake. More to the point, it's obvious that Valve spent all its time and energy perfecting 
 the single player experience, and so as far as deathmatches go, Half-Life's is just that, a standard 
 deathmatch. But who cares? You shouldn't be buying this game to play deathmatch.
  
  Really, my biggest problem with Half-Life was some of the level design, particularly in the middle 
 stages of the game. Here the tension seriously sags, as you are forced to wander around some dreadful 
 tunnels looking for switches in retro-gaming land, as jumping puzzles, switch hunts, and all the 
 tedium of a dozen other games returns in force.
  
  Pacing is important in an action game, since you want to break up the intense, heart-pounding shootouts 
 with some stretches of creeping caution, even moments of relaxed calm. But in my view at least, 
 too many of the middle levels rely on jumping puzzles, instant death traps, and almost sheer rote 
 exploration via the save/load buttons.
  
  However, once you get past the sewers, a seemingly interminable rail train puzzle, and the dreaded, 
 obligatory underwater maze -- once you fight your way back out into the open area where you have 
 to mix it up with the camo guys again, the game perks up considerably, and some of the final levels 
 in the military base are truly some of the greatest single player levels ever made.
  
  Anyway, those are some of the things that make Half-Life tick. It questions genre elements and 
 reworks them or discards them as appropriate in order to make a smoother, more engrossing game. 
 It constantly presents you with variety, surprises, and new challenges to keep you hooked. It is 
 a tour de force in game design, the definitive single player game in a first person shooter. Don't 
 cheat yourself; play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samusarmada
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Some games age well, others have now been eclipsed. Previous trend setters have been bettered and 
 left obsolete in the face of the new generation of gaming. Sometimes however there are games that 
 do it right the first time, even when the genre they are so unknowingly defining is still in its 
 infancy. Mario 64 is one such example, and half life is another.
  
  Half life is a great game for many reasons, and not just because it was the patriarch of the first 
 person shooter. Many of the areas that it shines at so well still have not been bested today. Its 
 incredibly simple narrative structure is one such reason. It seems so obvious to us now to keep 
 a game in the players control throughout the experience but still, its only really the half life 
 series that does this throughout. Its rather surprising that the original is still the benchmark 
 of this. Half life 2 had to keep you in rooms while the narrative was laid out to you. The original 
 gave you no such restrictions. For such an old game, its startling how well the presentation has 
 held up over the years. Few games can get you hooked into your situation as well as half life did. 
 It may not have the most original of stage design (underground lab gets infected by monsters) but 
 its gradual shift as you get further and further into the game (and up onto the surface) really 
 sets your place in the scenery brilliantly. From its hugely innovative introduction to the moment 
 the experiments go aryl. The pacing of the game is set from the outset, scientists go about their 
 daily routine and security staff patrol with due diligence, all of the people in the game are intractable, 
 all are eager to share with you their day to day routine and even those who arent still acknowledge 
 your presence. Even when all hell does break lose, and the pacing of the game shifts abruptly into 
 a state of fear and claustrophobia the interactivity with your allies is not lost. Characters now 
 change their priorities; youll see some hiding, others grouped together and some slain by forces 
 unknown in a desperate bid to escape. And still they have tit bits to tell you. Whether its how 
 scared they are about how theyre going to get out or how theyre sure the military are going to 
 save them, its a constantly evolving narrative that most RPGs would kill to have let alone shooters. 
 Its truly a mastery of tone and atmosphere that as you slowly evolve from just the ordinary scientist 
 to the unwelcome hero that your enemies start to adapt to you too. Its rare to see a games enemies 
 treat you more than the object in your way but with half life it slowly becomes a far more involving 
 situation than first appears. How did you feel the first time you heard the words its him!! 
 being blurted through the heated transmission of the enemy forces. How else did you feel when they 
 first shouted the words Freeman Your evolving relationship with the enemy troops is one that 
 I have never experienced in any game before, or indeed any game afterwards. Its sequel may have 
 tried to improve on this ongoing feud but ultimately nothing can really compare to the first time 
 you saw the words youre dead Freeman! spray canned onto the walls.
  
  There are many example of these oh snap!! moments in half life but its the degree of mystery 
 around the whole game that truly elevates these scenes into the truly memorable. This is in a large 
 way to do with the games wholly freakish ending which truly made the wait for the sequel all the 
 more unbearable and ultimately left some feeling cheated at 2s finale. I am in a way thankful 
 for both endings of half life and half life 2. I think that the mystery surrounding the G-Man 
 as whole cannot and should not be fully explained in any of the following half life sequels. It 
 keeps that feeling of mystery alive that in most games seem to follow the this is what really 
 happened feel as you reach the closing cut-scene. The G-Man is perhaps a far more interesting 
 character in the original than he was in the sequel because we really didnt know who the hell 
 he was. It is with much regret that I admit that I played half life 2 before the original and thus 
 knew who exactly he was, but I was still wholly taken aback by the degree of polish and mystery 
 that the first game took with him. He remains gamings most elusive and dark characters and it is 
 with much uncertainty that I delve into the half life 2 episodes will any explanation of him really 
 do him justice?
  
  Is half life perfect then? Well, no. No game can be perfect, even when it is first released and 
 videogames have the strange habit of being able to outdate even the most advanced videogame in 
 a matter of months. Half life is not a game that can be failed by technology, the retaining power 
 of its atmosphere has already proven this. It is in other areas that half life falters slightly 
 however. Shooters have never been particularly competent in the areas of platform jumping and it 
 is in this area that half life perhaps relies on too much. Be it jumping from one radiation container 
 to another or one rotating disk to a platform, half life can frequently frustrate the player by 
 throwing in recurring areas of navigational jumping that rely more often on guess work rather than 
 a collapse due to a critical failure in the players fingers. Perhaps it wouldnt be so bad if Gordon 
 Freeman didnt control like a piece of paper but when a game has you fuming over falling to your 
 death while climbing a ladder you know that platforming wasnt the way to go.
  
  While games are usually praised for changing the scenery every now and again it remains a mystery 
 to me why the latter hours of the game see you transported to the strange alien world known as 
 Xen. When a game has done so much, so right for such a vast amount of time it makes you sad when 
 you see the high level of perfection really drop during the games climax just for some added 
 length. Half life achieved the balance between human and alien foes perfectly throughout the games 
 trip around earth and one of the main problems with the Xen area is that it utterly ruins this 
 equilibrium. It is startling to see how dated the game feels when battling on what should be the 
 games greatest moment; a one man invasion into the heart of the alien hive but instead it feels 
 hollow and disappointingly dull. Enemies come at you without any real sense of urgency and even 
 the games final boss battle feels dawdling, you feel that without the menacing sound design you 
 wouldnt even know he was interested in you.
  
  So how do I sum up half life? I have proven that it is a classic but that it is also dated and 
 can be especially cumbersome. The important thing to remember about half life though is that that 
 the former outweighs the latter 2 more than any other classic videogame out there. Its truly a 
 great thing to see a game, not only stand proudly among the ranks of shooters out today but flat 
 out better them in almost every area it possibly could. Its fitting to see this, but also equally 
 disappointing to see that from half life we can see just how little the industry has advanced from 
 it. For a review of half life however there can be no better pleasure than saying that. This is, 
 the benchmark for First person gaming, and it still, has yet to be passed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan171717
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  if it wasn&amp;#8217; t for half-life then we would not have scripted sequences. That means instead 
 of cuts it is actually using the game and making characters do set things and you can move around 
 and play at the same time and that makes the game so immersive because you never leave freeman&amp;#8217; s 
 eyes. Unlike a lot of fps&amp;#8217; s for its time half-life has 2 types of enemies aliens and 
 humans sometimes when you enter an area you are in the middle of a battle that started before you 
 got there. the graphics were amazing for its time but now they look old and a bit blocky. I like 
 the first section of the game before the resonance cascade because of the gags like the microwave 
 and the button at the desk. sound is ok but at the end of the game when the G-man is talking it 
 sounds very stuttery and it. The sound track is ok too (put the half-life cd in a audio cd player) 
 the story is simple but well done. I also like the design of the levels in some areas but not others 
 (mainly in weave got hostiles and blast pit) the game has some replay value in terms of mods and 
 playing what you&amp;#8217; ve all ready done but that gets boring after the 3rd or 4th time you 
 completed it overall this is one of the best games ever made and if you don&amp;#8217; t own it 
 I suggest you get a copy of it now!!!
  
  i rate it 9.8 but cant put it down cos of the slider 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam-117
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  One of the best First Person Shooters of its time and is still one of the best. One of the first 
 FPSs with an intriguing storyline, its not just some kill all the monsters and you win type games. 
 It introduced a great AI system which made the game replayable and a storyline which drives you 
 to play more. I still play the game till this day. It is even being totally re-done with the source 
 engine. Overall this game offers everything you want in a game. It looks and sounds amazing and 
 is overall one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You a scientist did something wrong, and then BOOM, Aliens
  Perfect setting for some Geeky nerd guy with a crowbar to kick some alien ASS!
  The game, although 
 a 1999 kinda game is the FPS shooter! You got your Aliens, **** scientists, and even Marines send 
 in to kill you! Also some women assassins..... The game has tons of Weapons and enemies, so really 
 play it.... NOW!
  
  Graphics: I was really impressed by it today....
  
  Sound: Great, holds up to this day....
  
  Replay Value: Multiplayer, MODS, etc alot of replay 
 value....
  
  Summary: All in All, This game is a must for all PC gamers everywhere, it's up there with X-com 
 UFO  really no excuses!! This is a classic game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  No FPS game since Half-Life has been better and not even Half-Life 2 could live upto this wonderful 
 game. Before this FPS games were short and just lots of short levels that you'd load up into different 
 locations. Half-Life made it standard so there were no levels like before and just made it more 
 seemless and one continuous thing. It took me about 30 hours or so when i played it back in the 
 day to complete it and while it's obviously shorter now as i've grown up, stil a very long game 
 for the FPS genre.
  
  The gameplay mixes alot of puzzles and platformer type gameplay with action and for the day very 
 smart AI. I would fault Half-Life on the guns as i thought they could have done a better job looking 
 back on it now but back then they were superb and different.
  
  Also what makes Half-Life soo great was the SDK and mod community which launched such games like 
 Day of Defeat and Team Fortress classic and Counter-Strike + many others like Sven coop and Natural 
 Selection etc etc. You could change the sounds and the skins and mod everything yourself or just 
 download them from other people, so it was innovative with this aswel. The game has soo many great 
 multiplayer mods for it thanx to the community so the gameplay is just endless with these and makes 
 it well worth the purchase. It's like buying a long single player game with thousands more hours 
 in mods and they're sooo high in quality, basically buying 100's of games in one without knowing.
 
  
  The thing people will always remember about the game is the intro scene on the monorail which lots 
 of FPS games since have tried to copy and not done a better job of it as Half-Life. Gordan Freeman 
 (the main character you play that doesn't even talk) has become a Icon in the PC gaming world and 
 sorta has become the face of PC gaming like Mario is to Nintendo or Master chief is to the xbox.
 
  
  Half-Life also stands the test of time because recently i've played through it all again and loved 
 every moment of it. This is the real test for a great game and thats it's timeless and never gets 
 old, it still out classes FPS games today. The graphics and Sound today still are very playable 
 and for their day they were just amazing and like nothing you've ever seen.
  
  Buy this title for the &pound;5 it'll cost and you wont be disappointed in playing the FPS of all 
 FPS games.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JunK-tion
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  load, i still finished it 5 times on that PC.
  I don't think that there is somebody that doesn't know the story of HL, but for those who don't 
 here is a short intro: You are a scientist, Gordon Freeman, in a secret facility in the north American 
 desert , called Black Mesa (if i recall right) . The story begins picturing a day in Gordon's life, 
 letting you experience a normal day in the facility. You are designated to play a pretty str8 forward 
 role in a important experiment. A malfunction appears which results in opening a portal, unleashing 
 hoards of aliens in the facility, After which you will struggle to get out of the Black Mesa along 
 with other scientists. A new thing in this game was that you need the ability of the other Black 
 Mesa employees to move around. Also you needed a bit of brains to find your way along the game. 
 It wasn't just another linear game like the other FPS of the time. You will find your self crawling 
 through Air vents, use the staff to open secure doors or even team up with a guard that helps you 
 fight back.
  For a scientist that had only a small course of fire practice, Gordon Freeman beats his odds in 
 making it out, you are the only guy that actually gets a gun, the rest of the scientists you meet 
 along the way are weaponless. Also, on your way for salvation, you meet up with the Army, which 
 is sent in to kill everything.
  Along the game you will: launch a satellite, burn a huge alien, get to use a rail-road through-out 
 the level, kill all shape&amp; sizes of aliens, and get to teleport on the Xion planet (i think 
 that's how it was named, sorry i forgot)
  But there are some bad parts in this game too (the only problem is that i'm too mesmerized by it 
 and do not see them too well) : the sounds are great, the AI is pretty good for that year, gameplay 
 is awesome, plus the game has a hazard course training level where you can get used to most of 
 the features. well i strongly recommend you play this game before you play HL2, it doesn't quite 
 continue the story line that much but it's nice to know what they talk about in the dialogs in 
 HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  To write a review for Half-Life is like trying to inform people just how awesome and revolutionary 
 a graphics accelerator card was. We all know it was the turning point of the genre, it was a great 
 game to play with fantastic visuals, and great scripted sequences.
  
  I remember opening up my Christmas present, it was like opening a dimension to which I would lock 
 myself in my room and never emerge unless my parents were banging on my walls to let me know that 
 the game was too loud.
  
  It was engrossing, sometimes shocking, and never boring. Always something new around every corner. 
 It was like Golem when he found the One Ring. I forgot the taste of dinner, the feel of AC, the 
 touch of my soft bed to which I regretfully resigned every once and a while. Long live the headcrab!
 
  
  Gameplay: Responsive, easily customizable, simple. You moved fast, no need for stealth. Guns were 
 fun, a good variety. The weapons made each scene approachable in many ways.
  
  Sound: I don't remember any music in the game, the sounds were sometimes off, and sometimes way 
 too loud, but most of the time it was just right.
  
  Graphics: Revolutionary for it's time, really pushed the boundaries off hardware at the time. It 
 had really good mood lighting, lights flickering, dark hallways, sunny outside zones, shadows , 
 rays of light.
  
  Bottom Line: This game revolutionized the First Person Experience (FPE) . Even though it may be 
 linear, it's the experience that counts, and this one delivered in style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  If your looking for an FPS game from the 1990's, this is the game for you.
  
  The graphic's are probably the best I have seen in a classic FPS game to date. Some things in the 
 game, graphic wise, are bad.
  
  Gameplay is great. You run a bit to fast, but you will get used to it after a while of playing 
 it.
  
  Sound is okay. You can tell it's not really real
  
  This game is definatly worth a buy if you are interested in an FPS. There are many games out right 
 now that was almost as good as Half Life, but never made it.
  
  The storyline in this game is Unique. Never have I seen a game take place in a lab inside a Mesa. 
 You start out in Black Mesa. A problem goes wrong in the labs and you have to get out. Simple. 
 The jumping puzzels can get annoying, but the game, the characters, and the sound, all together, 
 make this a game wanting to come back for more. This game is highely addictive and makes you want 
 to play over and over again. This game, in fact, can be a good game for you if you are bored or 
 waiting to go somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grommyfrog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to recount all the aspects of the game. With over 200 user reviews on this site I 
 think it's been covered. I consider the game an instant classic and one of my all-time favorites. 
 It is well deserving of it's introduction into the Hall of Fame. This posting is a response to 
 the less than stellar reviews posted. Most of these reviews state that Halo, CoD and blah, blah, 
 blah are way better games. Well, it's true Halo is a better game than HL1. But, these reviewers 
 don't understand that Halo and the others are great games because of HL. Half-Life upon it's release 
 showed the game developers that players wanted immersing, story driven games that were truly FUN 
 to play. It changed the FPS genre forever. True, by modern standards it's a little clunky and outdated. 
 But, it was a true Revolution when FPS fans climbed aboard the Tram car for the first time. Everyone 
 knew that the days of Doom's flat level design and lack of environmental interaction was banished 
 to the Past. (Side note: I still love Doom and play often)
  
  Now, any new FPS game is compared to Half-Life. And it isn't the best benchmark to use. Yes, it 
 pushed the genre in a new, greater direction. And, those of us Old-schooler gamers will defend 
 it with are very lives. But for those of you who are new to the gaming world or have missed playing 
 this game (That's like saying you haven't seen Star Wars) . Please play it. And, while you are playing 
 look for the little things that influenced more modern games. Can you see those scientists being 
 killed by headcrab zombies through the laboratory windows? Pretty common place now, huh? That's 
 a small gift this Title gave us for the future of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure what else can be said about this truly revolutionary game, so I'll keep this short 
 and to-the-point... ANYONE who rates this game less than a 9.0 (out-of-10) is either brain-dead, 
 lacks any knowledge of (or doesn't care about) FPS history, and/or perhaps wasnt yet PC-gaming 
 at the time of it's release. I'll make it simple for those who may disagree or not understand: 
 Half-Life's impact on the FPS genre is the equivalent of the Star Wars influence to Sci-Fi film-making 
 (Quake was the 2001 of it's time) . A Revolutionary Single-Player game; Outstanding Death-Match; 
 Team-Fortress Classic; and a player-mod' that changed the world: COUNTER-STRIKE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afjhk_58
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  Wolfenstein set the foundation, Doom gave it some flare, Quake showed what you can get out of gore, 
 and Half-Life revolutionized it all. Before Half-Life busted in the picture, Shooters threw you 
 into some complex with virtually no story and a pistol, and a nameless character with unlimited 
 bravery. Half-Life starts in the most of humble of places, a transit system. On your way to places 
 unknown, the personal of the passing areas drop clues of whats to come, look closely. The biggest 
 clue you should notice is the system crash that Barney tells you about, after all the running and 
 gaining the hazard suit, you're dropped into a test chamber with a faulty sample to put into a 
 large machine in the center of the room.
  
  After the catastrophe, you know it's time to kick some serious alien ass, and Gordon is the expert. 
 You are equipped with a diverse wide variety of weapons, everything from a Shotgun and Crowbar, 
 to a little alien pet named a Snark . All of which deal death very well. You begin to feel for 
 the characters in the game, mainly Dr. Kleiner, Barney The Security Guard and Eli Vance. Not only 
 do they provide extra info on what exactly went wrong in the test chamber, they also help you in 
 one way or another, you scratch their back they scratch yours. And dont think that if they die, 
 they wont be coming back, they come back... a lot. As for the graphics, they were good for the 
 time, but seem a bit dated now, just increasing the old-school feel, which is fine with me. The 
 animations and characters are a bit jumpy, and run like a nervous tic at times, but nonetheless, 
 the characters move with a life not before seen in a video game. A great game for a genre on the 
 brink of death. For anyone who loves a good story with some amazing action sequences that can and 
 will leave you breathless, enjoy your stay at the Black Mesa Research Facility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skate411
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first and greatest games I ever played and still to this day, in 2007, still 
 is. The intro, enemy ai, weapons, and characters were just great, but the story was the best part 
 of the game that intrigued me the most. After the game some things were explained but it left the 
 player wondering what the whole game was about and what had happened. Whole online communities 
 were formed just constantly talking about the story, until Half-Life2 was released. The action 
 and puzzle solving were greatly developed and the boss battles were very challenging but intense 
 and fun. To me, this game was perfect. You couldn't make it better anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Half-life is a game that just draws you in. With its great graphics and sounds, it just creates 
 an atmosphere that gets you hooked. The games starts off a little slow, but in no time you'll be 
 gunslinging your way past aliens and the military in this action packed game. It just keeps the 
 story line going in a great direction with three forces just waging war over the facility. The 
 only downfall of the story is it seems to be a little drawn out with some pointless battles. All 
 the characters are memorable with their different personalities. They all bring a piece of realism 
 to the game that just draws you in even more. Add the with all the guns you get that just seem 
 to give you a sense of power, then you have a great game, with a good storyline, that will take 
 a good amount of time. If you're looking for a good game around $10, then this is it, don't go 
 to Halo or some cheap ripoff... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I got Half-life around two years after it was released. I liked it a whole lot, but I always played 
 the expansion pack Opposing Force because it was easier. Now I see how great this game really is. 
 It was an advanced game for its time. The graphics were average, but the AI, the sound, the controls, 
 everything else was astounding. The only real wow for the graphics where blood effects, some models, 
 and a some environments, but it still wasn't an ugly game, but nothing special looking. This game 
 really was a revolution in gaming, just a work of art, aside from graphics. It handled especially 
 well, and sounded great. The AI, except your buddies, were advanced for their time. Nowadays, the 
 high definition pack makes this game look much better than before, or Half-life: Source, which 
 is the original everything except it has physics and nice water effects. you can also get different 
 mods, or play it online. Trust me, there's a lot of people on.
  
  Positive- Sound great, advanced AI, controls well, storyline is decent, decent voice-acting, fun 
 multiplayer.
  
  Negative- graphics don't spark a wow factor, friendly AI isn't too great.
  
  Overall, a solid 
 FPS worth anyone's time. Play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldbluekid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 11, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  Back in 1999 I bought my first computer and a couple of games, I didn't really knew anything about 
 HL yet. So I installed it, and got it running.
  At first it looked ok, I was flying trough some sort of tunnel of some kind of research facility. 
 It was ok, nothing spectacular. Then I accidentally moved the mouse, and then it came to my head... 
 I AM ...
  Many adventures later I finished the game without wanting to do it (I played slowly, experiencing 
 every little detail) , and I realised it was something I will love forever.
  Every time I see a bad review or comment of the game, I can't help it, but I get really furious 
 about it (I know it's stupid, because it's just a game) , this has never happened to me before, 
 and it must be because I spent so much time with HL, loving it, that it came an important part 
 of my life.
  All the expansions are worth playing too.
  I don't know what else to say, but to excuse my bad English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  As first you play this game, it's really a great experience. The plot, the environment, the easyness 
 of gameplay and the fast-passed action offers many a great time. Gameplay is easy getting aquainted 
 with. There are commands necessary for doing that or those, that is not really complicated. The 
 graphics, back to it's time are great, well textured and with a fair good lighting dynamics. Sounds 
 are good, each weapon with sounds that could still be used in nowadayws gamed and it would not 
 be easy to preceive that the sounds have been used in a game back to the 98's, if the person did 
 not know the sounds. It has a good reviewer's tilt factor (replay value) , yes. Even tough the plot 
 is complicated (If you explore it only thru the game, you'll get that alike, but there are more 
 aspects, books and writings thru the web with the plot, that is not easy to understand, really) 
 the game is fun, of course, because it is dynamic. For the value, well, nowadays you just get to 
 Steam and download a copy of it with Counter-Strike together for US$ 10. Now, I can not forget 
 another detail. The mods. So many custom maps, and modifications made up with the engine that it 
 takes time to get fed up with that. It is a great game to have at home thanks to that and other 
 factors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yari-ken
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  This is a game that mixes great story, plot, atmosphere and gameplay,
  This was the FPS that made me fall in love with the genre.
  The feeling to Half-life is what 
 makes it so distinct. You play as Gordan Freeman, a scientist at a top secret laboratory (something 
 like area 51) . The game starts as an ordinary day at the Black Mesa fasility, you see everyone 
 doing there jobs, chatting, complaining about the computers. This lasts for about 45mins, so before 
 all the action starts you get familliar with your surroundings, the characters and controls ect. 
 This is geniously done and it starts to build the storyline before anything happens! Your character 
 on the otherhand is a mystery, you arent told how he got here, his personality and you dont even 
 hear him speak, the reason the creators (Valve) did this is so that everyone who plays the game 
 can relate to him and since his personality is a mystery, no one can dislike him! There are no 
 levels in this game, every area is connected so the gigantic Black mesa Facillity is one big level! 
 As you can probably guess, some top secret experiment goes wrong and all hell brakes loose, its 
 amazing when you see the before and after effects that happen. From a quiet day at work to walls 
 collapsing, sparks flying and people getting slaughtered before your eyes. Now, onto the action! The 
 gameplay in this game is almost revolutionary! the enemies AI is brliiiant and there is a great 
 mix of realistic and sci-fi weapons. You will fight exotic alien creatures and highly trained military 
 special forces. This game is quite tricky so you'll have to use your head to get out alive. There 
 are also a number of puzzles you have to solve like jumping across things and opening locked doors 
 ect. The game is very long so you wont be disapointed about being ripped off, even though its quite 
 long, you dont get bored of it before it finishes and at the same time your glad you cleared the 
 game, throughout the game valve introduce new things to keep you interested an d there are many 
 memoral moments in this game. Although the graphics is dated at this stage, the game is still an 
 amazing experience and will always be remembered as the grandaddy of shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mestizoman
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  I played this game for the first time in may 1999, and i have so many great memories
  
  1. climbing out of the elevator shaft to confront the military, two gys one who flanked me, and 
 the other who threw a grenade
  
  2. killing the plant in the hole thing with the giant laser, and having to get the fuel cells
 
  
  3. seeing the canyons for the first time, and being chased by the attack chopper
  
  4. having the ceiling collapse overhead, and jumpikng throught the debris, then figfhting the vortagon 
 electric guys in the next area
  
  5. killing the spider like thing in zen
  
  6. the bus in space ending
  
  7. riding into black mesa on the tram subway hybrid in the beginning
 
  
  8. killing the gigantic walking monster thing using the electric grid outside on the elevated platform/ 
 hard for me to remember exactly! j
  
  the game suceeded with tough ai, great ambience, terrific gfx, superb sound, and phenomonal weapons 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  This game reminds us all why we love shooters so much. Playing Half LIfe is like being in a good 
 sci-fi movie. This impression is immediately conveyed as instead of passivel watching a cutscene 
 to introduce you to the story, you start off as Gordon Freeman, a research scientist in the Anomalous 
 Materials division of Black Mesa, a secret facility in the desert of New Mexico. You begin the 
 game in a tram on your way to work. This gives you a little glimpse of the facility, and then you 
 are off to work, assisting with an experiment. When you pull the lever, BANG, all hell breaks loose 
 and an alien infestation begins through portals you unwittingly created. From here, the game is 
 about survival. First you must defend yourself against the attacking aliens, and later in the game 
 US special forces are thrown into the mix, who are trying to exterminate both you and the aliens. 
 The action is tons of fun, and you will be using a large arsenal of regular and extraterrestrial 
 weapons to defeat enemies of all types. Particularly memorable are the little exploding alien roaches 
 that serve as hand grenades. Enemies range from small parasitic headcrabs to massive cyclops-robots 
 prone to stampeding. The Black Mesa facility is very well done, and there is continuity pretty 
 much throughout the whole game, adding to the sense of the enormity of the place. All over the 
 place are entertaining scripted sequences, often involving hapless scientists or security guards 
 being pulled into vents and dying unpleasantly. Enemy AI is very good, and can be exploited by 
 pitting marines against aliens and mopping up the remainder. Some enemies are really tough to beat, 
 like the slippery assassins that dart about in the dark and take potshots at you in a couple tense 
 parts of the game. Others require clever use of the environment to be killed. You will also periodically 
 see a mysterious guy in a suit known as the G-man, who seems to know an awful lot about what is 
 going on, and at the end he provides means for a sequel. Half LIfe is a great achievement and one 
 of those games that is pivotal is FPS history, so it should be played by anyone and everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderUnit22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  It's hard to imagine where the first person shooter genre would be nowadays if Half-Life was never 
 released. In a time when the genre typically only pushed graphics and left story-telling and immersion 
 into the world to other game types, Valve offered not only top-notch shooter action with tier 1 
 graphics, but also great level and puzzle design, an interesting storyline and the tools that would 
 pave the way for successful mods like Counterstrike and Day of Defeat.
  
  It all starts as an ordinary day for Gordon Freeman, scientist at the Black Mesa research facility. 
 Fine, the coffee in the morning tasted a little bitter and you're a tad late, but there's no way 
 anything worse could happen this day, right? Well, guess again, because only a few minutes into 
 a routine experiment, something goes terribly wrong, an inter-dimensional portal to a world known 
 as Xen opens and all kinds of aliens break lose. Gordon, who is well protected in his hazard suit, 
 has to somehow find a way to the surface of the secret facility and get help. The cavalry arrives 
 soon, but instead of helping the trapped scientists, the army seems more interested in covering 
 up the incident with a few bullets in the head.
  
  The amazing design choice which makes for a fantastic atmosphere during the game is that you see 
 everything from Freeman's perspective. There are no cut scenes that show the hero or take the camera 
 out of your hands, he never talks and NPCs look at you, when you go past them. Add to that a ton 
 of great scripted scenes like people getting sucked into air vents combined with excellent A. I. 
 that not only acts in groups but can even hear you when you run too fast, and you'll definitely 
 feel like you're actually there, fighting the good fight.
  
  Of course it helps when Half-Life, for its time, looked absolutely incredible and this in a year 
 that already saw the graphically stunning Unreal. The characters are well detailed and animate 
 smoothly thanks to a skeletal animation system, the levels are diverse enough so you won't get 
 lost in the facility and the wide range of environments, among other things the cliff-side of a 
 canyon, make for some of the most amazing moments in a game to date. Likewise the sound is outstanding, 
 be it the authentic weapon effects, the excellent voice acting, the music or the vicious screams 
 of head crabs charging at you in the dark vents.
  
  Especially the puzzle design still holds up extremely well even at this point, which comes to show 
 how little the genre has progressed after the release of the game. Instead of your usual find the 
 key to open the locked door problems that were common at the time, Freeman has to overcome actual 
 hurdles like restoring power to the railway system. The inclusion of these vehicle passages also 
 changes the pacing of the game quite favourably, not that the combat is any less outstanding. Aside 
 from the usual suspects like several pistols, submachine guns and grenades, you'll also gain access 
 to a few conceptual weapons engineered within the facility and more, although the crowbar is definitely 
 the most iconic weapon of the series.
  
  All told, Half-Life is among the most influential games of all time and belongs in any game collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  PC gaming, and especially the first-person shooter genre, can be looked at as two eras: before 
 Half-Life and after Half-Life. The run and gun approach versus the run and gun and think approach. 
 While Half-Life didnt necessarily introduce actual plotlines in action games, at the time it was 
 one of the few game plots that wasnt just a paper-thin excuse to kill Monster A, blow up Building 
 B and rescue Princess C. It also introduced a new level of scripting and situational puzzling in 
 first-person shooters, replacing find the red key with a truly gripping experience as you race 
 through a top-secret science facility gone haywire. Even the smallest things add character  blowing 
 up a fellow scientists microwave meal or inadvertently sending some elevator-riding colleagues 
 plummeting to their deaths are two choice chuckle-worthy moments from the opening hour or so. Revolutionary 
 can only begin to describe Half-Life. While its certainly showing its age now  the enemy intelligence 
 isnt the best, and some of the puzzles and environments do seem contrived by todays standards 
  we are talking about a game that will be celebrating its 10-year birthday soon. Few games of 
 that age can still grip gamers and appear fresh and exhilarating. Half-Life is most certainly one 
 of them. Ill stop gushing now.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  For a game that is based on the now-antiquated Quake engine, Half-Life sure does look good, and 
 head and shoulders above contemporary games such as Quake II. For a start its not brown. From 
 labs and offices to sheer cliff faces to a bizarrely alien world, the level of detail and variety 
 is pretty amazing. There arent enough character models, though: nearly each example of a particular 
 friend or foe appears pretty much identical, which is a shame.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The sound is great and pretty immersive. The monsters make some downright creepy noises, the weapons 
 sound as realistic as I suppose they can be, and the music features a nice mix between adrenaline-pumping 
 thud-thud and more laid back themes.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Even playing through for the nth time, Half-Life still remains a fun ride. And if you ever tire 
 of the main game, theres a couple of add-ons and a huge modding community with some of the best 
 amateur conversions and levels ever made.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  Perfect.
  
  Pros:
  Well-plotted, well-scripted action game with a pleasant dose of black humour. Pretty much paved 
 the way for all future story-based shooters. Other than the graphics, hasnt really aged much either.
 
  
  Cons:
  The last few alien-environment levels arent nearly as exciting as running around the Black Mesa 
 facility. The annoying jumping puzzles in these sections are a bit frustrating too.
  
  Conclusion:
  Could quite possibly be the best first-person shooter ever made. Still rocks my 
 goddamn socks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSeXtreme
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is really good , the campaign has kick ass maps and the MP does so! and its really 
 good to play, enjoyable, You should get this one if u want a low-req BADASS FPS! Every single puzzle 
 its enjoyable and cool.
  
  Story: Dude, the gameplay its awsome but this sucks.
  Scientist open a portal to Xen, aliens invade, a G- man appears and end. No good ending (Half life 
 2 ethier a friend showed me) i personally hate it, in the levels nothing that really matters, just 
 in the begining and in the end the stroy its showed. THIS SUCKS
  
  PS: I think this is based on DOOM series... Why? lol dont you gettit?
  Scientists Open a Portal 
 To Hell 
  Scientists Open a Portal To Xen 
  lol
  
  Sound: Its really cool some really good effects for this time.
  
  I think you should buy this 
 game you will enjoy it a lot, but if you like games with amazing story dont buy this my score for 
 myself will be 8.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanns13
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  A A A A AAAAAAA A A A A AA A AA A a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a 
 a aa a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosa911
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have ever played, it has a good story and the charecters are also 
 good. Hardly any games are good these days, but this game is still good for being released in 1998. 
 The FPS in this game Revolutinised how you play FPS games, there is hardly ever a dull moment in 
 this game even though some times its fast paste but overral this game is good.
  Before this i played Halo and Half life 2, but when i played this it seemed that there was no differnce. 
 It shows that this game no matter how old it is, it will always inpress new gamers or new people 
 to FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  (Note: Marks given for graphics and sound are based on what was available at the time of release; 
 1998)
  
  Half-Life is a revolutionary title in a genre that the PC does best: First Person Shooters. I love 
 FPS and this is the probably the best of the lot.
  
  The game was one of the few games of old that had cinematic qualities to it, the immersive story 
 line, the great voice acting, the gripping set sequences - Half-Life had it all when no other game 
 did. Even now, HL manages to keep me at the edge of my seat, it still makes me think about the 
 puzzles I'm doing and it still makes me jump with its annoying little moments when a headcrab jumps 
 out of absolutely no where at you.
  
  One problem with the game is the difficulty of the game which doesn't make it particuarily difficult 
 it just makes it time consuming and annoying. Half-Life on easy mode is harder than HL2 on hard 
 mode. It takes about a whole clip of SMG to take down the standard human grunt and more than that 
 for the standard alien grunt. This doesn't make it difficult, it just makes it irritating - there 
 is a thin line between challenging and pointlesness.
  
  So although the graphics are dated, the soundeffects are annoying, the voice acting is lacking 
 in the whole acting department and the gameplay is pointlessley difficult HL is still and amazing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slow_death
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Half life is one of those game those games which really helps you get rid of stress by beating 
 the **** out of aliens
  Half-Life utilized scripted sequences, which instead of cutscenes, enables the character to be 
 in the game throughout.
  Half life also has no levels but has different short scenes. This reduces loading time and thus 
 results in more gaming time.
  Half life unlike other games released at the same time [ like quake ] combines all out shooting 
 and carnage with puzzles.
  The game also features two expansion packs : Opposing forces and Blue shift. This game is truly 
 revelutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chromearrowz
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I first played half life round a friends house. I loved it, the constant anticipation got me addicted 
 from the very beginning. Every day for a month I went round his house to play it. That was until 
 i bought it.
  
  The start of the game is boring. There is like five minuets of nothing, except a train and opening 
 credits. But once the game got started, it really got started. Straight away there is an explosion 
 which releases all the aliens and monsters into our world. (thats the only part of the story i 
 will tell you)
  
  The game play was brilliant. The weapons were brilliant. The aliens were brilliant. Overall the 
 game is, well, brilliant. If it was remade today with better graphics, i would fall in love with 
 it again. Even though i know the story line.
  
  As you go through the game there are some tricky bits but once you figure them out, you will either 
 feel proud or thankfull that you finally sussed it out. The monsters named headcrabs are the most 
 annoying, jumping on you and sucking away at your health.
  
  Finally, although the aliens do look dodgy towards the end you start to fall in love with them 
 to. I give this a rating of 9. It is fun to play and in fact, i am going to start a new game on 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavyBinary
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 22, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  After playing most the popular FPS games right back to the original Wolfenstein I'd always looked 
 back and wondered how I'd missed Half Life.
  
  With Valve packaging up Half Life 2 now was the perfect time to catch-up, how could I not finally 
 play the original Half Life in the new Source engine. OK, so it's an old game so I didn't go in 
 with huge expectations, especially after the extremely long intro, amazingly the graphics and sound 
 still hold up well for their age even if things tend to be a bit chunky.
  
  Here's the clincher though, and where I fail to understand the continual praise this game gets. 
 While running full tilt, Counter Strike style, all is fine. The problems start with the jumping 
 puzzles , they are near impossible to complete with any real accuracy, quite often resulting in 
 death, or back tracking in order to repeat. This problem extends to ladders and any other fine 
 character positioning you might try doing and becomes incredibly frustrating.
  
  The other major problem is that it is the only game EVER that has caused me to feel queasy, so 
 bad at times that I'd actually have to put the game down and then only play it in one hour chunks. 
 In the past I've had no problems playing any FPS for anything up to eight hours straight, call 
 me a wuss but I don't understand either.
  
  As for the recent induction into the Hall of Fame, well I can understand the legacy it's brought 
 us, ie. Counter Strike, but by itself I believe it's just another FPS even if it was revolutionary 
 in its own time.
  
  System Shock 2 anybody? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Take control of a scientist charged with destroying the alien invasion force that arrived, courtesy 
 of government experiments gone wrong. Of course, in the post-X-Files world, there's additional 
 bad guys in the form of federal cleaners who want you just as dead as the monsters.
  Power up your environmental suit and plunge through level after level of increasingly difficult 
 and creepy challenges, rescuing your fellow scientists and ultimately clearing out the whole complex -- if 
 you're lucky. Game play is smooth and simple, after the obligatory false starts and botched maneuvers 
 common to learning every new game. Persistence pays off, though: Half-Life rewards tenacity with 
 increasing power and understanding of the virtual world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Half-Life is probably the single greatest PC game ever. Sure the FPS formula has been done to death, 
 but with Half-Life, it goes in a completely new direction. No longer do we have levels that give 
 your statistics on how many kills or secrets you've achieved at the end. The entire game is connected 
 into one, big, huge level that you will spend at least 30 hours working through. Pure story-driven 
 and no fake sh! t. This time we're in the real world, where everything is exactly what it seems 
 to be, and what it should be. The level of immersion is nothing like any other game has ever reached. 
 It makes you want to play over and over and over again! I, myself, have played through this game 
 at least 5 times by now.
  
  Doom might have established FPS in 1993, but Half-Life completely changed the way we play them, 
 and the way the developers make them. Right when things were getting worn down, Valve comes in 
 and saves the day. For their first title, this is absolutely breath-taking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguybond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game, especially whe nit came out, was the standard that every other game maker looked to 
 to make their games better. it is a beacon of perfection that guides stray programmers to success 
 and fame and fortune and good looking chicks. Why is it so graet? because the graphics are good, 
 the gameplya is fun, the story line is intriguing, and the multiplayer variants are legendary, 
 especially team fortress. mmmmmm good times. The sound is good to, not the best I guess but who 
 cares. I have beaten this game like four or five times because it never gets old. so much replayability, 
 so many online options. A game only surpassed by its sequel. BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mediocre_man90
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is truly one of the most immersive games ever created. The entire game is presented from 
 the bespectacled Gordon Freeman, without any of the cutscenes, text briefings, or level breaks 
 that the genre was so fond of. Half-Life shines in it's ability to craft a believeable atmosphere, 
 drawing you in and making you feel like a scared scientist. Equal parts FPS, Survival-Horror, and 
 Puzzle game, HL is a masterpiece of the gaming medium.
  
  Another of HL's achievements comes in the form of exeptional enemy AI. Enemies will take cover, 
 flank you, throw grenades at your position, etc. In one memorable playthrough I dropped into a 
 vehicle maintenance garage and ran to a nearby pole for cover, only to watch in horror as a soldier 
 ran up and kicked a switch, crushing me with the car I had unwittingly run underneath. Simply put, 
 enemies will find the most efficient way to kill you.
  
  The graphics were amazing for their time, and have held up very well over the years. It pales in 
 comparison to newer games, but for a 9 year old game, the graphics are astounding.
  
  Finally, the sound. HL does an excellent job of creating a frightening ambiance. various noises 
 fit their sources: a waste management facility is filled with sounds of rushing water, machinery 
 whirs, doors creak, etc. enemy infested areas will also be filled with unsettling noises. You will 
 also learn to hate dead silence just as much, for reasons I won't reveal here.
  
  In short, HL is an amazing game that every FPS fan should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00tcolors
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Half Life.......... It has been a while since the original has been in the spotlight. Not that 
 it is a bad game, just that others have taken away some of the roomy living quarters that Half 
 Life used to have. However, if you dig deep and look around closely you will find an active mod 
 community, a great player base, and an overall great game still waiting to be played. Face it, 
 this game is revolutionary. If you have yet to play this masterpiece then you have to buy it now, 
 it is only 10 bucks but you will have hours of fun.
  
  Yes, if you didn't get it from my introduction this is a wonderful game. From top to bottom the 
 fun never stops. In Half Life you play as Gordon Freeman, an employee at the Black Mesa Research 
 Facility in New Mexico. You were assigned to take part in an experiment. Unfortunately for you 
 however that experiment goes horribly wrong and the facility is destroyed. You, a former useless 
 employee is now the only hope for everyone that managed to stay alive. Gun down mutants as you 
 try to find the secrets and escape from the facility!
  
  The single player portion of the game is a great experience but the multiplayer is something special. 
 Play a traditional deathmatch game with all kinds of cool guns. Choose from an assortment of player 
 models and duke it out with others. Modders have been able to add teamplay to Half Life as well. 
 Unforunately for Half Life, the graphics have not aged well. All of the characters are very blocky 
 and are an eyesore to look at. However this was one of the first games to have mouths open and 
 close while people were talking so that was a big hit. Back in the day the graphics were great 
 though.
  
  The sound on the other hand is still at the expected level of sounds today. From extremely annoying 
 bugs to shotgun shots to alarms, all of Half Life's sounds are of the utmost quality!
  
  All in all, if this did not convince you this is a game worth playing, nothing will. However if 
 you are like most gamers you will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkDemyze
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Well architected 3D environments; Good AI; Immersive story telling; Clever puzzles; An 
 enemy that actually 'hears' you.
  
  The Bad: Repetitive character models; lackluster plot; Easy to get lost in certain areas.
  -------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Half-Life: The time required for one-half of a given material to undergo chemical reactions, biologically 
 speaking. But that isn't the Half-Life we are here to talk about today. No, this is an entirely 
 different subject - almost.
  
  Right from the get-go you take the role of Gordon Freeman; A Theological Ph. D scientist working 
 at the Black Messa research lab. You will take immediate notice that the game doesn't start with 
 a cut scene or any background story information at all. You are placed directly behind the eyes 
 of Mr. Freeman and see the game from that point of view for the remainder of the game. This is 
 where the beauty of the story telling comes in. Half-Life attempts to immerse you into the game 
 like never before and succeeds, to a degree.
  
  While the voice acting is great and the reactions given by the people you come in contact with 
 are stellar, the plot feels spotty at best. Basically what seems like a normal day at first turns 
 into an experiment gone wrong. Things get out of hand when hostile creatures from another dimension 
 begin pouring into Black Messa. You then begin the fight for survival with nothing more than a 
 crow bar and your trusty H. E. V. suit. You will come across a few fellow scientists every once in 
 a while to move things along. The things they say are normally over run with jargon making what 
 they say relevant to the situation, but not to helping you understand what is actually happening.
 
  
  Although, what this game lacks in plot is more than made up for in the incredible game play and 
 satisfying puzzles. Many puzzles feel cleverly integrated and don't fall into the move the box 
 here, then pull the switch trap that has been seen often enough. The weapon play feels mostly standard. 
 But what makes this game special isn't how you fight your opponents, it's how they fight you. Just 
 because your enemies look like zombies, doesn't mean they act like zombies. Well, maybe some of 
 them do. But the point is if you run from an opponent, you can expect to be followed. Better yet, 
 they might not even have to, instead they'll just throw a grenade at you and flush you out. Also, 
 the sense of scale you get from some of the enemies creates an amazing effect.
  
  The weapons are also nothing short of standard with some nice additions. You start with the normal 
 no ammo weapon, the crowbar, and pick up others along the way including a pistol, machine gun, 
 shotgun, grenades, and wall placed laser mines. The secondary fire options are also nice allowing 
 you to launch a grenade on the fly when the machine gun is equipped (provided you have the ammo) . 
 But there are also a few special surprise weapons in development at the lab.
  
  Despite the aforementioned breakthrough in artificial intelligence displayed here, there are still 
 some major caveats. If you manage to get yourself into a position where the enemy doesn't see you, 
 the enemy can be taken out as if you weren't there. They will just stand still and yelp until they 
 die. Many of the problems seem to be tired with line-of-sight. Once you trigger the enemy into 
 action, they will pursue you constantly. But if you manage stay out of their line-of-sight then 
 you can take them out without any resistance. This doesn't happen often, but when it does it sort 
 of takes away the immersion that the game is shooting for.
  
  The graphics are undeniably outstanding. While they don't quite live up to those of Unreal, they 
 still manage to help raise the bar in terms of the level of detail put into the different textures. 
 Characters you come in contact with have an unmatched level of detail and the building architecture 
 is just phenomenal. Unfortunately another item that takes away from the immersion feeling is that 
 many of the character models you come across are all recycled several times. It's mostly ignorable 
 but sometimes can be quite apparent. Also, there are many corridors and pathway that feel as though 
 they have no purpose at all. To argument that though, Half-Life does manage to keep these types 
 of areas short keeping most of the action rolling right along.
  
  Thanks to the way the game is setup there are no levels. Instead, it is one long campaign moving 
 through the Black Messa facility with a few exceptions. This creates for a much more streamlined 
 sense of game play as you can continue moving forward or travel back if you feel you missed something. 
 On the other hand, sometimes because of this it isn't entirely clear as to where you should be 
 going. Yet, somehow it would probably be annoying to see a big sign saying Go This Way plastered 
 to the wall.
  
  Graphics and A. I. are great; but they're not the only arenas that make this game stand out from 
 the rest. The sound is what really helps bring it all together. The guns sound like they have kick 
 and explosions are loud. You can hear enemies vocalizing in the distance or around a corner. And 
 not only do the monsters all make their own unique noises, there is even a monster that actually 
 hears your movements as well - attacking accordingly. Most of the game is played to footsteps and 
 gunshots but there are short spurts where music chimes in. It's a disappointment though that the 
 music only lasts for a few minutes and is promptly cut off if you walk through a loading zone. 
 Again, the voice acting is great but much of the dialog itself sadly falls by the wayside.
  
  This game isn't one of the greatest games because it has the best story line. It isn't the 
 most advanced by having the best graphics. Where this game truly blazes it's own trail is by having 
 memorable moments presented in a way that has surpassed all other attempts of putting you in the 
 driver's seat of the protagonist. Again it is all about presentation here and Valve has been able 
 to nail it spot on. This being their debut title we can be sure to see many more games to come 
 from this developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  I bought my first Copy of HalfLife almost 9 years ago. It's better today for many reasons. When 
 you buy HL you get about 8 games and CS and TFC can keep you BZ for months if you never played 
 it for $20. i still play it and if my PC couldn't run HL2 or BF2 i would be playing BF1942 and 
 Halflife's mods. If you never played HL and have PC you really should invest 20 on this title. 
 Don't think cause it's old no one is playing it. as of yesterday
  
  152 Team Fortress servers
  over 500 Counter strike servers. it's still got 1 or 2 years left 
 of online Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forever_blank
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Its characters are repeated, textures are blurred and sound should be improved. The story has been 
 called epic, I call it average. You play as a man called Gordan Freeman, you think your day is 
 going to be normal, but it turns out to be one of the worst days of your life.
  
  A classic scenario.
  
  One thing that strikes out at me about this game, is the time I spent 
 playing it. Easily 20 hours and considering that it was made in 1998, that is incredible. Another 
 thing, which is what made Half Life so... revolutionary in the first place, is the entire in game 
 engine of cut scenes.
  
  No: FMVs, Compressed Videos, Live Footage etc. All in game graphics, so that means you are there 
 as the action happens, giving the game a real live feeling to it. Unfortunately, there really isn't 
 enough scripted scenes for you to hold interest.
  
  The almost fluent world is a nice touch , with only 2 second loading times in-between if your un-lucky. 
 Story is a real bummer, as I feel it had the potential to go off, but with lack of information 
 coming at you and if it is, you might not be able to understand it as sound quality isn't the best.
 
  
  Controlling Gordan is standard controls, a, w, s, d, etc. Though these are sometimes way to sensitive 
 and suddenly trying to climb up a ladder without falling off the edge, becomes a real challenge.
 
  
  Half Life, while amazing for its time, has lost its new smell. This game is only worth playing 
 if you want the whole Half Life story, from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokyou
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I still remember this game when my brother got it in 1998. The graphics were considered very good 
 at that time so I'll give it a Ten. The AI was good, when you throw a grenade the soldiers will 
 all scatter. The zombies were freaky at first but at the later stages were considered nothing to 
 the great freaky thing which can spawn headcrabs. The aliens were cool like the ones who shot lightning 
 although they could've been harder to kill. Just 1 or 2 shots from a shotgun and they're gone. 
 A great game this is, it totally shocked the gaming industry at that time. Perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackleech
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10 The little physics is cool, AI is good but sometimes stumbles.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 A stunning variety of textures and character models.
  
  Sound: 9/10 The ambience 
 is excellent, the sounds are good but get repetitive.
  
  Value: 8/10 The campaign and multi-player, while present, get boring quickly.
  
  Tilt: 10/10 
 Given its time of release, most of Half-Life is simply revolutionary.
  
  Good: Levels are really immersive with the combination of visuals and audio.
  
  Bad: There 
 aren't that many different enemies or weapons.
  
  Who Should Play: FPS fans, Half-Life fans, Game Collectors, Sci-fan fans
  
  Potential: +-0/10 
 There do not seem to be any patches for the game.
  
  Conclusion: Half-Life deserves its legendary title especially as a pioneer FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Games like Doom and Wolfenstein started it off and then the next titles like Duke3D tried to carry 
 that success on but not until Half-Life did we get the first true revolutionary 2 gen FPS title.
 
  
  It set the standard for FPS games of the future and any single player FPS games after HL are always 
 compared to it. Still though nothing has really done for the genre what this game did, and i don't 
 think anything will until we really advance on tech to step it up a notch.
  
  With future games like Bioshock and Crysis coming i'm sure they'll do great but still i don't see 
 anything coming out that will make us forget HL. I can't wait to see something that does :) Not 
 even HL2 could produce a game worthy enough.
  
  Now for todays standards the gameplay is pretty basic but it still holds up and i can't wait for 
 a fan made remake called black mesa source . However it's still very fun but it wont make a impact 
 on you like it did in them days.
  
  Back then though it was amzing how it was all one level and the graphics look awesome and the AI 
 seemed like the greatest thing ever, i just remembered how it took me like a month to complete 
 first time it was soooo long!
  
  The sounds and graphics were also amazing but now they seem pretty dated and quite right they are 
 lol, nearly 10 years.
  
  
  I suggest everyone to play this game at some point in their life to just be able to say they played 
 the original HL game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miniguzzler
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  I remember when this game first came out my mom got it for me for Christmas in 98. That was when 
 Video cards started to get popular and had to purchase one just to get the game to run. I was floored 
 by the graphics at the time but the gameplay is just soo fun the storyline is awsome, especially 
 the AI when the marines are out to get you and when you try to throw a grenade they scatter. The 
 Very long into is soo cool kind of like watching a movie when the platform moves through different 
 locations which takes likes 10 mintues not like thats theres anything wrong with it overall its 
 one of the best FPS i have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  I recently replayed through HL1 and HL1 Source.. (yes both) what I found was that some errors were 
 still there like getting stuck on an elevator or a clipping issue in On a rail these errors were 
 there at release.. and with Steam they could have been corrected. This was not the case in Source.. 
 the errors were gone. I have to say that the errors asside the game still rocks.. sure it is slow 
 to start out.. but so was HL2... Most FPS games don't put you in the thick of it at the get go.. 
 HL1 is as long as it is entertaining. I still remember thinking WTF I lost all my weapons!? This 
 was one of the first FPS games to take them away.. later games copied that .. (Ex: Deus Ex) The 
 game gets pretty hard near the end.. namely in Xen. The second to last stage (Nihilanth) is just 
 brutal.. So my advice is to save your ammo use the flee gun through most of the game.
  
  I found myself using the flee gun like a third arm once gotten. It is a versatile weapon that can 
 shoot around corners.. VERY handy! HL1 was a first on many levels.. Prey even copied the beginning 
 game sequence.. (the train ride) Also NPCs that react to your presence.. (also a new innovation 
 at the time) . HL1 Source kicks up the definition of the game.. but really if you've played through 
 HL1 regular already.. the graphics may just seem like an after-thought. I find it suprising that 
 HL1 Source is not listed on GS... since it was released with the retail release of HL2 Collector's 
 Edition. (BTW, I still wear my HL2 t-shirt with pride) :)
  
  Now the breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: Excellent.. it starts you off slow and progresses from there.
  
  Graphics: At the 
 time they were top-notch.. and really made you feel immersed.. so I have to say excellent.. The 
 Source game was just okay that looks a bit better Sound: Perfect.. the game has some great sounds.. 
 and even though the music is sporatic it still appears at just the right moments.. Value: Well 
 the singleplayer campaign doesn't offer much in the way of replayability but since the game has 
 a multiplayer mode it does offer that.. I found myself playing through the single player portion 
 numerous times so I have to say excellent as well.. :)
  
  My own review of this game is just a straight 10.. :) Maybe I just love HL too much! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I'll tell the turth, I had never played this game before I played and finished Half Life 2, and 
 that was an experience that I originally though could never be beaten by another game, Im glad 
 I played the first one now.
  
  Whilst the second one focuses on a small arsenal of weaponry for you to defeat you opposition, 
 each weapon has its uses at a certain time. In Half Life 1 they didnt feel so set back by your 
 weapon restriction. While the revolutionary Gravity Gun did not exist back when this one was made, 
 although instead you had around twenty weapons at your disposal, each with tons of ammo available, 
 unlike HL2 where you have only a small amount of extra clips for each weapon after the basic ones. 
 This means that in most firefights you can indulge in the use of your ammo, you carry more than 
 enough to use the most powerful weapons and get away with it. There are plenty of different guns, 
 the normal hand guns that you expect in every game, shotguns, machine guns, a kind of needler like 
 the one in Halo, RPG's to the truely bizare stuff, like the energy weapons which litterally blow 
 up your enemies and run on plutonium and the Snarks, running grenades that can turn on you.
  
  The enemies range from headcrabs, to human soldiers, each has good AI, especially the soldiers, 
 who will throw grenades to flush you out of you hiding spot, use their numbers to flank you and 
 generally be a pain in the arse to fight. The boss encounters are mesmerising, ranging from helicopters, 
 to great water creatures, to bosses on the alien world which you wont forget, especially when you 
 see the last one, he's real ugly. The areas that you move around range greatly through underpowered 
 labs, flooded areas, canyons, and an alien world which has a load of difficult jumps in it. All 
 these places look spectacular, even so long after the games release.
  
  Some of the puzzles in this game are very interesting, and take a while to figure out, but they 
 do break up the action interestingly, although once the you have solved the puzzles your gald to 
 get straight back into shooting stuff. The action is quick and exciting, you will need to use cover 
 to stand a chance at beating some of your foes, especially since they can drain alot of health 
 from you. It takes quick thinking to stand a chance in some battles, which adds to the excitement. 
 The entire game is played throughout Gordons eyes, no cutscenes here, not even at the end or beginning. 
 This means that while characters are talking to you, you can run around picking up weapons, or 
 doing anything it doesn't matter. There is also the fact that you can kill some of your friends, 
 for example the guards carry a few spare clips that you could really do with.
  
  A truely fantastic game, it barely takes anything from your PC, comes with two expansion packs, 
 and Team Fortress Classic for &pound;15. If you don't have this game then get it. What are you 
 waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Half- Life may be very old but I still like it, it is very scary especially when those creatures 
 jump right onto your face. The first time I played this game it was at night and it was so so scary, 
 the sound in this game is good, when you are hitting a creature yellow blood splats out. This game 
 may not be as good as Counter-Strike and Half Life 2 but it is a very cool game, lots of people 
 out there surely would agree with me on this. When I got this game and got to play it the next 
 day I made a copy of the game. The start is so stupid you have to stay in that train for a long 
 time, that is one thing I dont like about this game, if only there was more mods for this game. 
 Sierra Entertainment has really done a fantastic job on this game well done, I am really sorry 
 but the graphics sucks other than that and the train the game is awesome!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordofwarX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  when i first heard aboutt his game, i thought it would be some common game. but then it all changed 
 when i started playing. i immediently grew immersed when i got on the train (the introduction) 
 right there, my great journey began. this game has changed my thoughts of fps. it made u realize 
 u dont go rambo, u think and shoot at the same time. this is clearly a classic, one of the greatest 
 classics next to pacman and tetris. the graphics are still amazing despite it's old age. the enemies 
 are pretty smart and run away when u nearly have them. the sound keeps ur hair up, and u can hear 
 the headcrabs wait to sneak on you. the controls are so simple, but it requires more than just 
 that to defeat the whole game. brains are needed here, along with some tatical thinking. its completely 
 amazing, and incredible such a game was made long time ago. this is probably the one of the greatest 
 sci-fi shooter next to systemn shock. its no surprise to me that this game got so many awards, 
 it deserved it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Half-life is the ultimate PC FPS experience. Not only is it immersive, but the presentation, the 
 style and solid gameplay all makes it a polished product.
  
  It's graphics (for that time) represented a convincing research facility with a lived in feel. 
 The first game to have a proper lip synching, IMO. Every environment is deatiled and unique in 
 it's own right.
  
  Crisp weapon sounds and ambient tones.
  
  Solid gameplay mechanics, which avoid every FPS cliche such as floating weaponary. Amazing enemy 
 artificial intelligence.
  
  A good 15-20 hours, even considering the fact that it has a lot of scripted sequence. Very replayable 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying this: I love Half-Life. Ever since I first played it back in 2002, I had 
 a fondness for the game. Now, about a few years later, I still play the darn thing. So for me to 
 review this game is a little awkward, and might seem biased, but I'll try my best to be as honest 
 as possible.
  
  Half-Life was known for being somewhat revolutionary back in 1998. For one, it was a first-person 
 shooter for the PC that had a story. You play as Gordon Freeman, a new member of the Black Mesa 
 Research Facility, a government organization used primarily for scientific experiments. Freeman 
 was assigned to the Anomalous Materials lab, and with the power of a Hazardous Environment Suit, 
 or HEV Suit, he pushes a mysterious alien specimen into the test chamber, and all hell breaks loose. 
 As you progress further into the game, you find out the military decides to do cleanup duty and 
 Freeman has to get out alive. Sure, it felt like something ripped from Doom, but it was told in 
 a way that moved the story along. Freeman would always find security guards or scientists that 
 would tell you a few snippets of the story, and even help you getting through certain areas.
  
  One other revolutionary thing was that the game never uses cutscenes, and it never leaves the 
 first person perspective. It immerses you in, and only breaks up the action with dialog from other 
 characters, but you can still move around and even ignore them if you want. And Half-Life is one 
 of the many games with a silent protagonist. Freeman never said anything, not even screams and 
 groans. This is great as this gives the player many different ways to portray Freeman, from a meek 
 scientist to spouting one-liners that would rival Duke Nukem.
  
  In terms of graphical quality, even in 1998, Half-Life wasn't gonna win awards. Many weapons have 
 unusual animations, like the submachine gun, which has a very funky reload animation. Characters 
 do however bring the added quirk of lip-synching that was done by the game's sound files rather 
 than generated in the game's engine, so this was much better and felt a little more natural, something 
 that would eventually be tweaked and perfected in Half-Life 2. However, characters themselves look 
 real weird as security guards and scientists looked cold and pale, as if they hadn't seen the sun 
 in years. Character variety is also low; don't be surprised if you see the same scientist, security 
 guard, or grunt a million times. It would've been nice to have more variety between character designs.
 
  
  Half-Life makes you go through various areas, from the office complex of Black Mesa, warehouses, 
 outside in the deserts of New Mexico, even to an alien planet. The levels themselves look believable, 
 as if you really were inside a scientific facility or an alien planet. The game looks bad in Software 
 mode (which is the game's default) , but looks substantially better in OpenGL and Direct3D.
  
  The game also paces very well. When you start, you will see simple, meek aliens that can be 
 taken down with a few shots of your pistol, and then you pick up more powerful weapons like the 
 submachine gun, and fight some marines. Then back to aliens. It works because it doesn't get stale, 
 and it's balanced in a way so that it doesn't become a gruntfest later on.
  
  In terms of A. I., it's actually very good. Enemies will retreat if they're low on health, and enemies 
 even limp when they've taken too much damage. They will even hit you with a melee attack if they're 
 close enough to you. Little things like that make the game a bit more believable, but this isn't 
 always the case. For instance, security guards can pump literally a hundred shots into their enemy 
 without ever reloading their gun. Security guards also do not have a close-range melee attack. 
 This never happens with grunts, however.
  
  There's a good mix of real life and futuristic weapons in Half-Life. The melee weapon is a crowbar, 
 which is strange, but with equally odder melee weapons in other first-person shooter games like 
 Quake's Axe and Doom's Chainsaw, it fits. There's a pistol, a revolver, a submachine gun, among 
 other real life weapons. There's an alien weapon and a weapon that looks like it came straight 
 from Ghostbusters (the Gluon Gun) . There are also plenty of explosives like satchels and tripmines, 
 but they've been done before. It's a good balance, although most of the time, you'll probably be 
 sticking to the shotgun and submachine gun, with the crowbar being used for small foes like headcrabs.
 
  
  The game features a decent musical score, which features the gamut of stock suspense tracks to 
 a few new ambience and action tracks, which mostly fit in all the situations given. For instance, 
 early on in the game, you end up in this rocket test firing area, and then you hear this techno-y 
 ambient track, which features woodwind instruments, and it's my favorite track in the whole game. 
 Half-Life's sounds are a bit mixed; a handful of the weapons sound quite weak and lifeless. The 
 voice acting in Half-Life is really good, and only a handful of lines are a bit poor. One strange 
 thing is that you hear two scientist voices when you begin, but then you hear only one voice throughout 
 the rest the game. Marines also sound strange as they sound like they're using a digital voice 
 synthesizer, it doesn't really sound human. It doesn't really detract, however, and it also works 
 to a gameplay advantage. Although in real life, marines would not shout out commands that give 
 away their position.
  
  Once you complete Half-Life, there's the deathmatch component, which is good and fun for a bit, 
 but tends to get a little stale after a while. My copy of Half-Life also came with Team Fortress 
 Classic, which is a Half-Life remake of the Team Fortress mod for Quake. I'm not gonna go into 
 large detail, but it definitely supplements Half-Life as TFC features a lot of gameplay modes and 
 still has a small community for it. However, this may not appear in all copies of the game, it 
 appears in mine because it's the Game of the Year edition. Later versions, including the last Half-Life 
 patch pre-Steam, came with a deathmatch modification that was a nod to Quake, Deathmatch Classic; 
 and Ricochet, which resembles the movie Tron, and was inspired by an old arcade game, Discs of 
 Tron. These last two are nice time-wasters, but I don't expect you'll be playing either of these 
 for hours on end; they're a slight novelty.
  
  Half-Life is mostly based on the Quake engine, so some effects from that game like jumping with 
 a powerful weapon (in Half-Life's case, the gauss gun) , bunny hopping and other quirks seem like 
 holdovers, but it's fun because it doesn't strive on being realistic. Not like Half-Life itself 
 was realistic to begin with.
  
  For anyone who has never played a first-person shooter before, or has never played Half-Life, you 
 need to play this game. Now. While graphics and sound look a bit dated, if you look past that, 
 you got a great game on your hands. Plus there's a lot of singleplayer and multiplayer modifications, 
 which extend replay value. Half-Life is a classic PC first-person shooter that should not be missed.
 
  
  Pros: Great immersion, good technical advances for its time, good music, comes with extra games 
 (Team Fortress Classic, Deathmatch Classic, Ricochet) .
  Cons: Weak graphics, average sound, not much character variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  I was playing through this game in 2006 and still after all this time, it felt like an awesome 
 game. It's so good for a 1998 game. There were no good first person shooters back then and Half-Life 
 changed it all with it's awesome gameplay. I'm not sure everyone will like this game, it being 
 so old and all, but still I really enjoyed it and I'm sure at least 80% of the people that enjoyed 
 Half-Life 2 will enjoy this game. I recommend it to you if you're a Half-Life fan, old-school fan 
 or First Person Shooter fan.
  
  Kind of funny that I played through this game, and I totally forgot that I could change the graphics 
 so I played the game with awful graphics and only after I finished the game, it hit me that I could've 
 improved them a little. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilt0193
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  THE-MUCH-LOVED-QUICK-REVIEW
  Gameplay: 10/10: Simply top notch puzzles and shooting
  Graphics: 9/10: While today the textures are bland, at the time they were great
  Sound: 9/10: 
 When the alarm goes off, you're into it
  Value: 9/10: While having more than one game for multiplayer support, the game can ultimately offer 
 endless hours. On the same note, no one really plays them anymore.
  Tilt: 10/10: With an unpredictable story, and larger than life enemies, it proves to be an awesome 
 games
  Overall: 9.6: This game proves to show that shooters do not have to the same.  
 A game released Nov 1998 can still prove to be entertaining 7 years later. This is something that 
 is not seen often. How many of you have picked up some of your beloved N64 games, and realized 
 how much gaming has improved? Half-life (Game of the year edition) shows to withstand time with 
 an intuitive story and hardcore gameplay. GAMEPLAY: How realistic does it feel to pick up the best 
 weapon in the game, in some random, unnecessary hallway? The makers of Half-life took notice to 
 these unrealistic effects and made sure to almost eliminate them all together. Instead of getting 
 an awesome weapon in some random hallway, you get it in a weapons research facility where its made. 
 Shooting is shooting, no matter what platform you play it on. The thing that separates Half life 
 from the rest of the pack is how it progresses you through shooting. Instead of having levels you 
 prefer and ignoring others, the game progresses through a linear plot (with short load times to 
 boot) . The great story could change completely in one level. Weapons, kill. You gotta love the 
 weapon setup in half life. While you will just find yourself using a select 3, the lineup is great. 
 There is only one which I did not prefer. It can basically be identified as bug grenades. They 
 didn't prove useful in a fight in which reactions keep you alive. Enemies, kill you. Aliens, Marines, 
 big machines... they all want to kill (who of all people?) YOU. The aliens are nice, but by the 
 end of the game you start to get tired of them. I don't know how to explain it, they just don't 
 seem as cool as they were before. To make up for getting lackluster, you get to see some amazing 
 in strength and size bosses. The marines have punishing ai, especially for the time. They duck, 
 they cover, they throw grenades.... right next to you. In summary.... awesomesauce
  
  GRAPHICS: Time can be told. For the time they were great... but now.... erm.... not so good. We'll 
 leave it at that. It's not that I feel they are horrible. But honestly, I don't know if I can fully 
 support my 9/10.
  
  SOUND: Sound in a game completes the experience. What if Ocarina of time had no music and just 
 beeps? To just explain this shortly. The aliens sound like aliens, the marines are borderline scary 
 when you hear their radio fire up, and explosions... sound explosiony.
  
  VALUE: While it has two games to harness its backbone multiplayer capabilities. No one really plays 
 them anymore. If anything else to up the value... you can say you own one of the greatest games 
 of all time. That's gotta be worth something.
  
  TILT: Really when it comes down to it. The game has amazing, believable gameplay. You can't deny 
 its greatness because of graphics alone.
  
  Dont believe reviewers that give it 3's and 4's. They more than likely got stuck on a puzzle and 
 starting thinking about all the negatives the game has. So then they repeat their argument over 
 and over in a review. Or they make a 2 paragraph review (not good enough to support their own cause) .
 
  
  (Coming soon, more reviews of the half-life games and my review statement )
  
  Thank you for reading,
  lilt0193/maskedaprentice2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xymos
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when I bought the Holiday package that Valve put out this christmas season. Since 
 it was the first game made out of the bunch I figured I should start with this one.
  
  The Gameplay of this game is... frustratingly bad. The game is totally linear, with little to no 
 exploring most of the time. The alien enemies are hopelessly easy to defeat, where the human enemies 
 are uber soilders. The environments never really change, and at times you are forced to go through 
 some terrible platform jumping with the clumsy ariel controls you must make do with. Compare this 
 to an even older game, Doom, where the gameplay is less linear, the enemies make sense and are 
 more imaginative, constantly changing environments and no terribly frustrating gameplay. Half-Life 
 is a total loser when it comes to gameplay. 2/10
  
  The graphics I admit are pretty good for a game as old as it is, but then again I remember that 
 the game that I played was completely rebuilt on the new Source engine. The environments look pretty 
 bland and boring, the enemies look very blocky and uninterestingly stupid at times. The gun models 
 look good, that is at least something. All in all Half Life Source doesn't really impress all that 
 much most of the time in terms of graphics. 4/10
  
  The sound in this game is debateable. For it's age the voice overs are good, and some of the weapon 
 noises are believable and satisfying. The sound of breaking glass in particular is very true to 
 the real thing. But here comes the pain; the rest of just about everything you can imagine in terms 
 of sound sucks. Water sounds like a tap running, most of the weapons sound horribley underpowered 
 and unsatisfying, aliens sound like squeak toys, and there are about 4 different voices for every 
 single human in the game. Also there is very little music, which only plays at key points in the 
 game for about 15 seconds or so. The music sounds really cool, to bad it only plays so infrequently, 
 which wouldn't be so bad if there was perhaps some ambient sound going on, which there is none. 
 4/10
  
  The value of this game is debateable, but since I got it practicly for free with 3 other games 
 that I hope are much better, the value is at least mediocre. 5/10
  
  Half Life probably was one of the best games of it's time, but that time is over 7 years ago. If 
 you are one of those people that have yet to play this game, do not waste your time. As good as 
 this game was in 1998, it will be nothing but a frustrating, and tiresome experience by today's 
 standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Hello,
  
  As I play this game, something seems to be done well. Not to mention that in the beggining it throws 
 you at a train, which takes 10 minutes to get over, but hey! every game is like that. Before I 
 start off, I need to mention that I played HL: Source, so maybe it is diffrent. Or whatever...
 
  
  I already heard to much about this game not to have my hopes up, so I gave it a try.. It didn't 
 do very well.
  
  I have to admit that I didn't play alot of games during 1999, but it seems that games scored better 
 then Half Life. It took the shooter to the next step, but some of the wepons seem dull and the 
 same. It's like having the same weapon tweaked over and over again. There is some intrest to acctually 
 try all the weapons but it goes away pretty quickly.
  
  The puzzles, they are great. I promise that does show in the reviewer's tilt. This game should 
 be mentioned by the great puzzles and challenges that it brings up.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. I mean, it makes you seem to be like WOWZ until you get used to it, 
 which takes some time, but... then the graphics turn up to be normal, and not so good.
  
  I did not love the sound track, and the voices did not work well, everything seemed bad. Especally 
 in the last level with the gman.
  
  I liked the atmosphere of the game, it was pretty good, kept you on the edge of your seat for a 
 little while. But this got old as well.
  
  To summarize, the game does have something to mention. But to put it out, its not that great. Overall 
 it is a game that should be mentioned, but overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  There isnt really much I can say in this, the 230th reader review for Half-Life at GameSpot, that 
 remains unmentioned. Whether a gamer is only a casual FPS fan who only slaps leather for big-name 
 titles, or a die-hard aficionado whose shooter badge was earned in the flickering nickelodeon glow 
 of such ugly but entrancing titles as Marathon or Wolfenstein 3D, many people agree that Half-Life 
 is a paragon of computer entertainment done right.
  
  The manner in which the story of Gordon Freemans adventure kicks off garnered a lot of praise 
 when Half-Life was brand-new. The idea of allowing the player some time to get to know Gordon and 
 steer him around during what would prove to be the last few calm, mundane moments of the mans 
 life was a new one; previously, FPS titles tended to splash some exposition across the screen, 
 place a weak pea-shooter in the players hands, and start the show just prior to his first nasty 
 encounter.
  
  The special effects in HL werent particularly flashy even by 1998 standards, but the games visual 
 appeal was still undeniably effective. Relatively ordinary locations like offices, laboratories, 
 and parking lots were transformed into haunted funhouses in which a shambling monstrosity might 
 reach out from the nearest air vent at any moment. The invading armies of Xen were appropriately 
 bloodcurdling  their fishy flesh formed familiar shapes (arthropods, dogs, squid, sharks, and 
 even bipeds) that were twisted into frightening mutations, much like the creatures in Stephen Kings 
 The Mist, which purportedly served as the inspiration for Black Mesas unwelcome new residents. 
 Trapping Gordon between the hungry horrors and a relentless government cleanup crew, while almost 
 every friendly in sight stood around in shocked confusion, lent the proceedings an air of anticipatory 
 desperation that kept me playing through the night on many occasions.
  
  HLs replayability was enhanced considerably by Valves ingenious implementation of its popular 
 mod-making tools. Not only did the events at Black Mesa produce two excellent official expansions, 
 but more freely-distributed homegrown titles like Heart of Evil, Chemical Existence, Poke646, and 
 Mankes serialized They Hunger magnum opus (which remains one of the most endearing and addictive 
 survival horror shooters ever produced, commercially or otherwise) cropped up for HL than for any 
 other title Ive ever owned. Two other do-it-yourself projects  Gunman Chronicles and Counterstrike, 
 the multiplayer masterpiece that everyone I know has tried at least once  graduated to the big 
 show with professional publishing deals. Even the High-Def texture-crisping upgrade bundled with 
 Blue Shift gave me a reason to play through HLs single-player campaign for what was roughly, by 
 the time of the expansions release, the fifteenth or sixteenth time.
  
  I realize that this review is utterly superfluous in light of the effusive praise HL earned over 
 the past several years. I just wanted to throw my own hat into the ring as another longtime fan 
  a satisfied Valve customer  who was enthralled by Freemans chaotic universe ever since the 
 first in-development previews appeared in Sierras old newsletter. I played through HL one last 
 time over the summer before committing it to semi-retirement, and even though I could find my way 
 around the games besieged desert facility and the sparkling, ethereal realm of Xen with my eyes 
 closed by now, I still relished the spray-and-pray encounters with hulking shock troopers, tossing 
 a handful of yapping Snarks at the feet of an unsuspecting assassin, swimming for dear life with 
 a roaring Ichthyosaur in hot pursuit, and leading a pack of advanced-AI GIs through a dangling 
 forest of sticky barnacle tongues -- stopping just long enough to watch as each attacker was hoisted 
 up and gobbled, with the sound of cracking bones and rapid digestion signaling a permanent end 
 to their science round-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iminthepink
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Since the release of Quake in 1996, many first-person shooters have failed to accurately capture 
 the illusion of reality, which is an aspect all First-Person Shooters do their best to implement: 
 either by bombarding the player with text based objectives, scattering ammo or similar power-ups 
 like furniture, or telling the story from a rather lackluster point of view. Valve Software have 
 certainly done their homework with their first ever game. Through a number of well-thought out 
 artistic, technical and narrative decisions Valve have managed to capture the illusion of reality 
 like never before - Half-Life creates a reality that is not only believable but also amazingly 
 immersive. Half-Life has paved the way for the many FPS games that would soon follow.
  
  Many people may ask: What makes Half-Life so amazingly different to that of its cousins? Well for 
 one thing, previous FPS games tend to take one or several gameplay aspects and expand upon them, 
 making the parts of the game that revolve around these apsects considerably better than the other 
 parts that seemed to have had significantly less attention from the developers. This small flaw 
 can alter the illusion of reality so that the game seems more unrealistic than it could've been. 
 However, Half-Life, takes dozens of gameplay aspects and expands upon them in almost every way 
 so that every part, not a few, seem just as immersive and realistic as the last. What's also nothing 
 short of revolutionary is how these aspects are implemented in the game: ranging from complicated 
 puzzles that prevent you from progressing through the game to realistic fire-fights against the 
 game's incredible AI. Valve have managed to mix and match every possible aspect to make a game 
 truly outrageous, its unheard of.
  
  Half-Life introduces players to, Gordon Freeman a 27 year old theoretical physicist working at 
 the Black Mesa Research Facility. Unlike other FPS shooter games, Gordon Freeman does not speak, 
 which overall helps add to the illusion that you are the protagonist and indeed Gordon Freeman. 
 The plot in itself should'nt be that different to other FPS fans, albiet a little more elaborate. 
 Gordon Freeman is caled upon to conduct a top-secret experment in the Sector C Anomalous Materials 
 Test Labs and sufficent to say, all hell breaks loose when the experiment goes horribly wrong. 
 Using an Anti-Mass Spectrometer the strange crystalline substance that is being studied mysteriously 
 creates a dimensional breach allowing extra-terrestrial creatures to fall through the spatial instability 
 and invade Earth. The story is played out magnificently leaving you on the edge of your seats as 
 the situation progressively worsens: A special operations force known as the Hazardous Environment 
 Combat Unit is called in to contain the situation - to silence the aliens but also the science 
 personnel. As the game continues it becomes clear that all-out-war has commenced between the conflicting 
 races.
  
  The story is written so well, that it dosen't just mean travelling across the Facility's campus 
 and killing aliens alike. Dr. Freeman is given the order to launch a sattellite into geo-stationary 
 orbit to close the dimensional breach, travel to a strange new world to take out the brains behind 
 the invasion etc, etc. The story plays out in almost flawless fashion, at times giving you a look 
 at just how bad things are in the Facility. Throughout the course of the game the player never 
 leaves the perspective of Gordon Freeman: by which I mean there are no cut-scenes or jumps through 
 time... you are always looking through the eyes of Gordon and you never leave it. The game also 
 has its own closing and opening sequences, but these are so well done and immersive that they will 
 never take you away from the action and never gets repetitive.
  
  Something else that Valve has managed to change forever is the concept of Weapon Placement. Previous 
 FPS games had the tendancy to place spinning 'power-up's in almost every room you would come across 
 as if God himself had sent them to you. Instead of having Health pickups, Gordon Freeman will have 
 to regain his health and renew his Hazard Suit's energy by using specialised Health and HEV Recharge 
 Stations that are located in logical areas such as places where dangerous work is usually conducted. 
 Instead of power-ups, Gordon will have to retrieve additional ammo by collecting it from the corpses 
 of dead security guards and HECU soldiers. The more experimental weapons such as the Gluon Gun 
 can even be found in the place where its most logically kept - the Weapon Development Center of 
 the Facility. And believe it or not, once you've left the chaotic research facility behind, ammo 
 becomes frighteningly scarce. Whislt this may be only a minor improvement for some, the logical 
 placement of these 'power-up's adds much to the realism of the world.
  
  Valve have seperated the game into more or less than 18 chapters that are further divided into 
 levels that are seperated via a load time. Whislt the load time does momentairily take you away 
 from the immersion of the game, they are fortunately very brief. Overall players should be able 
 to spend approxiamtely 20 hours or more in completing the game's single player campaign.
  
  Whilst the graphics certainly isn't up to today's standards, you can still tell what sets it apart 
 from other FPS games. For example textures in the game aren't always reused to make it seem as 
 if each level is essentially the same albiet with a different structure. Each time the player progresses 
 through the facility the textures change along with the atmosphere of the game, making it seem 
 different all the time but not always making it seem as if you've left the world. The game is also 
 very puzzle-orientated. Whether your trying to get pass locked doors, destroying a lagre tentacle 
 with an experimental Propulsion engine, or jumping over saftely to floating rocks, the puzzles 
 have been placed extremely well by Valve.
  
  The game's enemies are extremely well done as well ranging from seeimngly harmless dogs to lumbering 
 beasts of fury. From the lowly headcrab to the Gargantua, the enemies in Half-Life truly look like 
 organic creatures. There are also the HECU human soliders that are enemies for the most part of 
 the game. The AI is done so well its remarkable. Instead of the soldiers or monsters following 
 you through a tunnel, they'll lob a couple of grenades to finish the job, or use biolgoically implanted 
 flame-throwers to fish you out.
  
  The weapons are incredibly well designed and sound great. There are quite a few that you will recognise 
 from real-life such as the Pistol or Sub-Machine Gun. But then, later in the game you'll come across 
 some of the alien's weapons and Science Fiction type weapons including a Particle Accelerator that 
 destroys anything remotely big within a matter of seconds.
  
  The Voice-Acting is, almost, of hollywood style. When they're not talking to you they'll speak 
 to their science or security counterparts with incredibly realistic replies depending on the situation: 
 at the beginning of the game you'll hear them discuss things about the day or complain, but then 
 after the Incident you'll hear them speak about the situation you and every other human is now 
 in. The one problem, which can take you away from the immersion rather quickly, is the lack of 
 diversity in the human models. You'll tend to think that most scientists are clones after a few 
 hours of playing and every Security Guard looks exactly the same. Sufficent to say however, the 
 game does pretty good in making the models come to life.
  
  These and other complaints are generally just a reaction to the fact that the game is simply just 
 so good. At times you might think the diversity of the levels could've made some previous parts 
 of the game better than others, but overall anyone should be magnificently happy with the outcome 
 of the game. Half-Life is an incredible FPS gaming experiance and a solid multiplayer game (with 
 Half-Life Deathmatch and Team Fortress) . Simply, Half-Life is an engaging and very impressive shooter 
 and is arguably one of the greatest PC games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Gordon Freeman or i like to say freemen is a Straight smart scientist but diaster strike after 
 a experiment gone wrong..
  
  Graphic: dude this graphics is like really nice, the characters really outstand many awsome and 
 the monster are completely ready to be wasted into snatach
  
  Sound: I quite like the monster sounding of it but finally, the voice acting has finally save the 
 day for the great sound
  
  Gameplay: the weapons look really good but the story kinda sucks when you keeps going until.. BOOM 
 a blockage comes in and you need to find your a way out
  
  This is a great game to believe on and alway simple and relaxing if you are bored or needed to 
 doing something.
  
  Overall: 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleetlordavtar
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  PROS: story, especially the intro!! graphics (for it's time) suspense / concept
  
  CONS: Movement enemies (very forgettable) especially goin to the creatures home-world damage area 
 by some of the exploding weapons was weak repeating of the one liners by the NPC's all the NPC's 
 must be clones??
  
  No one live for ever, call of duty, brother in arms, HALO, unreal, Deus Ex, ALL this franchise 
 were better gaming experience than this original. EVERYONE has always talked about the GREAT game. 
 I didn't get into FPS till '01 when i got my first hi end PC. having a crowbar always put me off 
 and thinking if it was something i had to use for awhile, i'll pass it up. this is a good game 
 (for it's time maybe great) , but compared to what's been out there since it's very OUTDATED, granted 
 HALO had many repeating hallways and details weren't that great, but a far superior game than half 
 life!! Have not played second game yet, but purchased it and 1st ep-sd... time will tell if #2 is 
 worth the hype, hopefully no crowbar (it's just so stupid) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NZX666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  Having become a gaming legend amongst action fans of PC and Consoles, the Half-life series has 
 come to be known in good faith. Many of the reviews that were written when the game was first released 
 however were not of a generally high standard, as the Half-life experience was one that was difficult 
 to describe, let alone write a large essay about.
  
  First and foremost; atmosphere is what Half-life does best. From the first second you start, the 
 world has you by the balls. The combat, puzzle elements and level design are (though excellent 
 as they are) all but vehicles to allow for the consistency in the game's atmosphere. The distinct 
 feeling of unease is established in the game's now legendary introductory sequence; it starts off 
 simply, easing you into the Black Mesa facility by means of a tram ride. You haven't any guns, 
 hell you're not even a soldier, but you feel distinctly uneasy looking at the facility on top of 
 a missile silo in these tram sequences. You see people going about there business, operating machinery, 
 and acting out there daily lives convincingly. The ambiance of the environment is frightening; 
 you get the feeling that something isn't quite right, but the rest of the world seems oblivious 
 to it, leaving you alone, just as you are on the train.
  
  Then you get off the tram.
  
  All I can say at this point in the review, is, that you have to experience it for yourself- 
 there is still nothing quite Half-life, not even Half-life 2 can quite match it (in most ways) . 
 You meet characters that are distinctly human, so much that you actually feel sad when you see 
 them die, you find enemies that will frighten and challenge you, all the while being totally unsettled 
 and relieved to the timing of the game's undeniable pace. The game's atmosphere draws you in with 
 perhaps its greatest hook: realism. Guns are not found floating in the air or in the middle of 
 nowhere, but are instead taken from gun racks, the hands of your enemies, or your allies. The same 
 logic is applied to the entire game world and makes for a well layered out game play experience 
 that seeps into every facet of its individual mechanics. Puzzles are largely take the form of obstacles 
 you encounter on behalf of the effects on the Black Mesa facility after the **** hits the fan- 
 and they always provide a different challenge, meaning that you will never really feel that the 
 game is becoming repetitive.
  
  The atmosphere and consistency within in the game world provides with it something that is just 
 more than an added perk. Good storytelling.
  Half-life's tale is a deep mystery, and draws on and develops many different plot devices and mixes 
 them up to make something truly riveting. You play Gordon Freeman, a theoretical physicist who 
 works in the secret government facility built on top of a defunct missile silo from the cold-war 
 era. The Facility is called Black Mesa. Sounds a bit moody doesn't it?
  After a bit of gawking at the varied insides of the facility on the tram ride, your sent down to 
 a rather brooding test chamber with you protective HEV suit. You are asked to carry out an experiment, 
 but everything goes horribly wrong. A resonance cascade tears a rift between physical realities 
 and pours thousands of Alien life forms into the base, all the while causing terrible structural 
 damage to most of the place. You fight your way out of the little nest of horrors where the accident 
 to find that the government has sent in a large armed forces to ''clean'' the facility of its inhabitants, 
 human or otherwise. As the story unfolds, you keep encountering a pasty white guy whose always 
 in an immaculate deep blue suit (with a matching suit-case) all the time, which is always kept 
 in immaculate condition even in the most harrowing situations. Keep an eye out for him.
  
  On paper, the story may sound a bit thin (to be fair) on paper, but the way in which the story 
 is told is just simply brilliant.
  
  To finish the rest of the details, the combat is excellent; cover is your friend, and your enemies 
 are to this day some of the smartest ever seen. Which means fighting is LOTS of fun. The only real 
 criticism anyone could have of Half-life would be about the game's final stages and the over-use 
 of jumping puzzles in those said areas. I personally enjoy these areas as they provide another 
 varied challenge and an interesting environment for you to enjoy, but they may not be to everyone's 
 liking. It can still be a bit hard some times too, and is of an above average length at least 15 
 hours, maxing out at a possible 35.
  
  Half-life. Buy it if you haven't played it, and live some of the greatest moments of your life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goonplatoon1032
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  I was first introduced to Half-Life when it first came out in 1998. I have been huge fan of Half-Life 
 ever since. I played CS when it was first released, played hours of Team Fortress, and all the 
 while loving it. This is first is the first introduced to using WADS, and trust me back then, going 
 from arrow keys to WADS was just like never playing games like Jedi Knight or Quake III ever again, 
 because they never got touched for the rest of that year.
  
  When people say that Half-Life was a revolution for gaming, they definently are speaking the truth. 
 Half-Life was way ahead of its time. Everything is perfect. Graphics and realism are groundbreaking. 
 The storyline is invigorating and interactive, while keeping you wondering. I have nothing bad 
 to say about this game. You honostly have to dig deep for a flaw. So good luck on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I got Half-Life on Steam and I was very impressed. It's and excellent game with great graphics 
 for something from 1998, and the gameplay is great. I never really played the multiplayer because 
 no one playing it anymore, but the single player is great. Sure the story isn't very original, 
 but the constant enemies will keep you on the edge of your seat. The sound quality is average, 
 some times it really bad from all the explosions. Also, the graphics are good, but I can only play 
 it on software or the normal Open GL.
  
  GOOD: It fun and challenging at times, and the graphics are great, and if you can find someone 
 playing on the multiplayer, it's fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Half  Life is one of the first FPS games ever made, and one of the first PC games that Ive played. 
 The games got over 50 (!) Game of the Year awards and is the best selling FPS to date. Although 
 it was released around eight years ago now, gamers remember it as the game with the best graphics 
 and gameplay I have to agree  the graphics and gameplay were completely outstanding at that time.
 
  
  Youre Gordon Freeman  a 27 year old Research Associate of the Black Mesa Research Facility. Once 
 again, youre late at work. During a rare sample analysis, an explosion occurred and aliens invaded 
 the earth. Only a few workers survived  of course, youre one of them Youll have to fight your 
 way to the surface, and inform the others about what happened. Just like in Half Life 2, the first 
 weapon you get in the game is the crowbar. Later in the game, youll get many more weapons. Gordon 
 is a superman, because he can carry as many weapons and as much ammo as he wants. You get to use 
 pistols, magnums, sub-machine guns, shotguns, crossbows, bazookas, and many more. There are some 
 imaginary weapons, like the Gauss Gun, and the Gluon Gun. Each weapon is different. Each one is 
 better than the others when fighting against specific enemies. Youll meet tons of different enemies 
 in the game. Your first big enemy is the headcrab. Theyre very easy to beat, but are very annoying, 
 and can cause some trouble, especially if they attack in groups. Anyways, striking with the crowbar 
 at the right time does the job well Like I said, some workers didnt make it. When headcrabs jump 
 on them, they kill them, and take control. These hybrids are zombies. It shouldnt be hard to 
 get rid of them, just keep your distance if you dont want to fall into their big sharp claws. 
 Headcrabs and zombies will appear the most. Well, at least at the first levels of the game. Later, 
 youll meet enemy troops, and alien creatures, like the Houndeyes, Bullsquids, etc.
  
  The games pretty linear, but itll take you some time to advance, because there are lots of puzzles. 
 Youll have to, for example, pile a couple of crates to get into places high above, or deactivate 
 electricity to get into electrified water. I would recommend playing the game on the hardest difficulty 
 setting, because its too easy playing it on lower ones  when playing on Easy, the computer 
 even helps you aim  how can it be fun? Playing on Hard will make you be very cautious, because 
 you wont see med kits around every corner. Youll have to search for them in supply rooms, under 
 stairs, and so on. There are also devices set on walls that recharge your health and your HEV (Hazardous 
 Environment) suit. You get it at the very start of the game. It lets you go into places that are 
 radio-active, and is a good excuse for your allies not to follow you when you get into dangerous 
 areas Yeah, youll meet friendlies there and there throughout the game  mostly scientists and 
 Barneys  security guards. You can order them to follow you, and can open doors with retinal 
 scanners.
  
  The graphics are very good, knowing when the game was released. Of course, youll get to see NPCs 
 with a low number of polygons, and low resolution textures. But who cares? Gameplay is far more 
 important in ANY game, and in Half-Life, its amazing. Anyways, if you want to have better graphics, 
 you can download Half-Life: Source. It was re-made in the Source engine from Half-Life 2. It doesnt 
 make the graphics so much better, only improves the quality of the textures, and makes water oh-so-beautiful... 
 Thats not much, but better than nothing. Half-Life: Source is available to download via Steam... 
 The sound in this game is awesome, as well  good voice acting, and cool music. Yeah, the music 
 rocks. Those who have played Half Life 2 should be familiar with it, since its almost the same 
 electronic/instrumental music. Its really good, and gets you into the game.
  
  Half-Life 1 is a superb game. It was one of my first games, and gave me an unforgettable experience, 
 mainly because it wasnt just mindless shooting - simple puzzles there and there make the game 
 much more enjoyable. I highly recommend it to everyone. If you pass the game, you wont stop playing, 
 because there are tons of various modifications (skins, models, textures) and add-ons (single-player 
 and multi-player maps) released for it. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatsFanVince
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life for the PC is probably one of the best old school first person shooters you can play. 
 It really put first person shooters on the map and also has a amazing story to go along with its 
 awesome gameplay. You play as scientist Gordon Freeman who gets stuck in the middle of a science 
 experiment gone wrong. Its your job to get out alive and help save earth from these alien like 
 creatures that have been created from this disaster. The story is definitely a high mark in this 
 game along with puzzle type levels that require a sense of strategy and will keep you busy.
  
  The graphics have aged a bit since 1998 but its still a great looking game that can be played 
 on pretty much any PC today. Some of the textures look a bit sharp but for the most part theyre 
 solid and look nice. The games interface is nothing big you have your health and armor icons on 
 the left and your gun and ammo on the right so it has a simple look to it. The game plays great 
 and its controls should be familiar to any other first person shooter out there today such as Counter-Strike: 
 Source or Half-Life 2. The sound is another great quality this game has the voices are clear and 
 the environments sound awesome as well as the guns and creatures.
  
  You are getting a ton of value here since it comes with online capabilities such as Team Deathmatch 
 and other type of games. If you love first person shooters on the PC this one is definitely a must 
 buy and even if your PC cant handle todays requirements then you can still pick up a copy of this 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Theres a reason so many say this game was Revolutionary... because it was and is still considered 
 to be one of the greatest games ever released. You are Gordon Freeman, a scientist who is involved 
 in an experiment that goes wrong, releasing creatures all over the facility. I won't give away 
 events in the story.
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  
  This game started a lot of things that games today are still copying. Items and ammo are well hidden 
 on boxes or lying beside corpses, there is no magical ring circling a med kit in mid air, resulting 
 in you needing to jump off a ledge to collect it, it is much smarter than that. Creatures will 
 burst through doors, creatures will jump out of vents to catch you and scientists who aren't as 
 brave as you will either tag along or hide in a dark room. It is basically constant action but 
 not in a Quake sort of way.
  
  GRAPHICS 9/10
  
  I am giving graphics a 9 based on the quality at time of release. They were fantastic. They still 
 look good to this day. It was definetly one of the best looking at the time. Character models are 
 detailed well and the locations are smart.
  
  SOUND 9/10
  
  The voice acting is good, weapons sound realistic and the creatures can sound scary. VALUE 10/10
 
  
  A game for all PC fans, you really should play this before playing the second game, not because 
 of the story but just to see that this game really is better. It's a classic. There are some nice 
 multiplayer games included that have a huge fanbase still playing them online to this day and you 
 will have no trouble playing through the single player more than once.
  
  ------
  
  I give this game a 9.5. It should appeal to young gamers today, if it doesn't then they are people 
 who will say the graphics aren't good enough. The story is good, sound, graphics and it's simply 
 a game which changed how many games were made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  Well, I got this game a long time ago, and I can guarantee that the game is perfect... The graphics 
 is good, but it can't be the best cuz the game is pretty old... But the gameplay is the element 
 that is mostly responsable for the popularity of this game... If my memory serves me well, (I think) 
 this is the first game I have ever played... I love this game too... :P Well, anyway, I think that 
 it is the best game ever made in that period... By that period I mean 1998, 1999 and so... It is 
 another 10/10- perfect!! If you ask me, it's a MUST HAVE to every FPS fan... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Half-life, which came out on Halloween of 1998, has become and landmark in the history of FPS gaming. 
 It was simply astonishing for its time. Half-life brought decent voice acting to the FPS genre, 
 as well as interactions between players and NPCs. A massive line-up of weapons and foes, and faces 
 you'll most certainly never forget..... because you see them over and over again. The thing that 
 ticks most about half-life is the superb story. You, the player, are actually the cause of the 
 entire story contained within the game. You are scientist Gordon Freeman, and during a test, you 
 cause an accident that opens a portal between Earth and another world. Creatures from the other 
 world start porting into the enormous facility you've been working at, known as Black Mesa. When 
 your allies call for help from the government, they sign a death wish. The government wants to 
 clean up this mess, and not let it out to the world. They send in marines to kill all witnesses 
 as well as creatures that have come from the other world. You, Gordon Freeman, being the cause 
 of all this, have to do something. Make your way through Black Mesa til you find your way to the 
 source of the problem, destroy it, and escape. Half-life is a one of a kind, masterpiece that we 
 will rarely see in First Person Shooting today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyebrowless
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game revolutionized first person shooters. Its true, and if you dont believe me, ill prove 
 it: This game managed to blend puzzle solving, platforming, and great first person shooting elements 
 into one game. And it pulled it off perfectly. The AI is top-notch stuff, even today (dont listen 
 to that r-tard mkattict1, hes an idiot) and they use cover and grenade you. Some games today cant 
 even manage that! I got this game just before Half Life 2 and i have to say that it definatly set 
 me up for a great story, with perfect atmosphere. The sound is also great, adding rock music at 
 an intense fight really makes you pumped up! And also, that r-tard said that it had good graphics 
 for its time, but i dont see how they even affect the game, so i think that they shouldnt hinder 
 its score for coming out in 1999. It manages to make everything worth it, especially for $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Before Half-Life 2 came out, I decided to pick this game up to see what all of the fuss was about. 
 I was immediately sucked in by the fast paced story and the intriguing puzzles. While the control 
 is a little slippery (prepare to save often) and the graphics aren't top notch by today's standards, 
 I easily over-looked these problems. I loved the enemies and the a. i. wasn't terrible for a 1998 
 game. The bosses are the highlight of the game; their difficulty is fair (provided that you figure 
 out the solution to beating them) . The game is well balanced, none of the weapons are underused, 
 except for the trip mine. Completely changed the way I percieve FPS. It certainly can be intense, 
 it has a high puzzle factor, and yes it might very well be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgodalming
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  You play Half-Life as the voiceless Gordon Freeman, a scientist -- or maybe lackey is a better term, 
 judging from how the other scientists speak to him -- at the secret government facility, Black Mesa. 
 The game opens with a long and suprisingly detailed rail ride through the base. Once you finally 
 have control of Gordon, you can talk to all of the NPCs in the base, eliciting unique and often 
 funny dialogue from each one. Long story short, you find your orange Haz-Mat suit, open a dimensional 
 portal, and all hell breaks loose. Your job is to escape and get help.
  
  Valve could have left the story there, and I would have happily blasted away at the newly released 
 aliens for all 30+ hours of the game. Instead, the government starts sending elite human troops 
 into the base to search and destroy the aliens... and the scientists who know about them. Suddenly 
 Gordon is fighting two increasingly powerful enemies instead of just one. And the only person who 
 seems to have control of the situation is the G-Man, a 1960s Men in Black stereotype who carries 
 a briefcase and disappears around corners.
  
  Level design is suitably interesting and pleasantly creepy when you have to crawl through various 
 air ducts, never knowing when the next headcrab will leap into sight and try to chew your face 
 off. My only complaint is that for such a long game, there aren't tons of different character models, 
 particularly among human friends and enemies. But the gameplay is so diverse and constantly terrific, 
 I can forgive this little gripe.
  
  Half-Life is very long for a FPS -- probably close to 40 hours the first time through -- and well worth 
 every minute. Plus, when I first played it, I had never met a more challenging or satisfying final 
 boss than the massive floating Nihilanth. Half-Life improved the whole FPS genre, and eight years 
 later only a precious few shooters have bothered to be any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is an old game, but one of the greatest things about it is that it is just as enjoyable 
 as any newer shooter, if you can oversee the arhcaic graphics.
  
  The gameplay is classic Half Life, with a combination of runnig and gunning along with puzzle solving. 
 It's FPS gameplay at its best.
  
  The graphics, though good in there time, look quite archaic nowadays. I am basing this review on 
 the new Source-ified version of the game, and though the water affects look neat, and the ragdoll 
 physics are cool, the overall graphics look like they did back in 1998. The sound is pretty good, 
 with the music popping up during moments of intense action. All the guns sound cool, and the voice 
 acting is excelent.
  
  All in all, this is a awesome game. The only problem is that it's old, and it's two sequals (HL2 
 and HL2 E1) offer the same thing and much more than Half Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemuffins000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Wow! That was my first reaction when I got my hands on Half-Life. Even with the old-gen graphics, 
 this game is the bomb! Well the gameplay is great. With lots of weapons to choose from, from teleportation 
 guns to the simple 9mm, this game rocks! Plenty of monsters and their respective levels throughout 
 the game really gives this game the extra kick it needs. Graphics (compared to today) are ok. They 
 aren't great. But that's all they had in '98, so deal with it. Sound is terrific. The teleportation 
 cannon really has the nice whir to it when it's charging up and the headcrab has that uncommon 
 shriek when it wants to cuddle with your head.
  The amount this game is worth, and the amount of good game play this game puts out the value is 
 incredible. For about $20 you can go into your neighborhood video game store and buy it!
  
  Rent or Buy
  Buy, buy, buy! That's all I have to say about it. If you can get the PC version 
 because of the extended console cheat and because (to me) the PS2 version just seems weird. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  Well just finished this amazing game. Have to admit that I haven't played this game never before. 
 What a fantastic shooter. I think that the makers of Half Life never had the intension to make 
 such a hype in the beginning of this release. But as you can see the sequel is there for almost 
 several years and still this game remains the best in his genre. This game is sometimes very difficult 
 because of the long jumps you have to make and it's good that you can save your progress anytime. 
 Splendid weaponry and splendid environments. Really aw some that this game is almost 10 years old.
 
  Good work and I hope that all the FPS for the future will be the same or even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insaneassclown
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to make a shameful confession: I got stuck in this game at the beginning for a month since 
 I couldn't figure out that I was supposed to mess up the lab experience. After that, it became 
 hell. I played this game when I was 10 years old to 11 years old. It was the most challenging game 
 I've ever played so far. I quit after a year since it was soooo soooo soo so hard. I didn't make 
 it out of the stupid Mesa yet, and of course never will. I try to cheat back then, but as you know 
 I was 10 years old and didn't know what's enable console means, so I was helpless and contiuned 
 the game playing dumb clean. The good points about this game is that it's very intense and very 
 suspenseful. I was so scared at some moments in the game that I thought I was going to past out. 
 But overall, this game is not worth your energy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Sorry to say this but my favorite genre is first person shooters, and I had never actually played 
 the original Half Life. Ive played every good fps except for this one. The game is fantastic for 
 its time and I know what they mean when they say it was a revolutionary game. The level design 
 to the way the game is presented is really well done. I played the source version so im sure small 
 changes here and there were made, like the water effects look way too good for a game done back 
 in 1998. The rest of the graphics are nothing great but they definatley get the job done and make 
 this game still fun to play today. The human characters are all pretty much clones with 2 scientist 
 models and one security guard model. The sound effects are all great from the weapons to the enimies 
 but the humans all pretty much have 2-3 voices for every character. The gameplay unlike alot of 
 fps was actually quite challenging. if your not ready when you go up against the soldiers they 
 will kill you very fast. The AI seems to be very good as well, sometimes the soldiers will run 
 all the way around a certain area to come up behind you. Also alot of the puzzles are quite hard 
 to figure out right away but nothing that would require a walkthrough unless your really stuck. 
 One problem i ran into was that you cannot jump as high as when u jump then press the crouch key 
 so i was stuck at one point on the ON A RAIL level. I found the game very hard to put down and 
 on my first sitting I played through the first 9 chapters. I did actually enjoy half life 2 more 
 than this game because of it was presented even better and had alot more diversity in the levels 
 you go through. If you never played this game its definatley worth trying out on steam for 10 dollars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdcrocks14
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  even playing this game today i am still amazed at how fun this is. valve managed to take the hunk 
 of clay called videogames and mold it into a totaly new and improved masterpeice. Nowadays compared 
 to modern 360 games these graphics seem like crap but in 1998 these were jaw dropping ultra realistic 
 eviroments and just think.. ten years from now we will look back on 360 graphics and say i cant 
 beleive i thought these were actually good! . the gameplay set the modern standards for not only 
 pc FPS games but all FPS games sucking you in making you feel like your not only controlling gordon 
 freeman... you ARE gordon freeman. if you havent played this game yet its worth the 10$ price that 
 you could probably beg for on the street in 10 minutes.
  MY ADVICE: your skull dosnt look pretty after falling down a 10 story elevator shaft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  In the late 1990s, the Doom and Quake series of games ruled the roost. Then along came the upstart 
 Valve with Half-life, which in short time became the standard all games hence forth where compared 
 too. Valve's Haf-life used the same Quake Engine as ID softwares games. Although the gameplay is 
 similar to any standard FPS such as the Doom series. HL has a superior story, more intense intelligent 
 gameplay, and a new character that would evolve into a ledgend. At the time this game had great 
 graphics, sound, AI and animations. I recently replayed HL with the updated Source version. Though 
 the Source engine gives the game some new life, with added lighting and detailed water, it does 
 create some minor problems with the older physics in the game. Otherwise it stays the same as the 
 original. LIke HL2, the story is the heart of the game. Nothing beat this story at the time. It 
 created a whole series that only know is coming to a climax. Though compared to new games the animations 
 and graphics are quite antiquated the game is still very playable. The firearms are satifactory 
 with realistics actions and sound. The enemies are are varied, and unique to themselves. Suprisingly 
 the AI is very aggressive and harder to kill than in Hl2. The game is also quite long compared 
 to newer games. I believe it lasted about 20hrs on the hard level. I enjoyed playing this game 
 again. Please note that I am comparing HL to other games of that time period and not to modern 
 FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zapbomb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  Half-life is an excellent game and must be played by everyone. I have played many games but the 
 half-life series is one of the best games of all time.
  You play Gordon freeman, who works in the black mesa. The story line is extremely interesting and 
 is continued on to half-life 2 with great suspense. The good thing is that you are equipped with 
 a special HEV suit, which protects you to an extent. There are a variety of guns to choose from. 
 The game is very long and takes place in totally different places. The games progresses in the 
 form of chapters, each chapter has a different part in the story. You will be filled with suspense 
 as you go through each of there chapters fighting monsters, and solving various puzzles. There 
 are a huge variety of enemies to fight with  headcrabs, zombies etc.
  
  So, I recommend you to buy and play this game, as it is a truly engaging game with a stunning storyline 
 and gameplay. Half life 2 is also a must play so be sure to catch that as soon as u finish playing 
 half life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Spartan796
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life was released in October of 1998, and can now be purchased through the online game distribution 
 service, Steam. It is also part of Half-Life 2: Game of the Year Edition.
  
  The game puts you in the shoes of Gordon Freeman, a theoretical physicist who works at the Black 
 Mesa Research Facility, a top-secret science complex deep below the desert sands of New Mexico. 
 The day starts like any other, with Gordon riding a tram from his dorm to the Anomalous Materials 
 lab, where an important test is about to occur. A public address announcement brings atmosphere 
 to what would be an otherwise dull tram ride.
  
  After reaching the labs, Gordon must don his HEV (Hazardous EnVironment) suit, which is designed 
 to protect him from any dangers he might face. The suit keeps tabs on his health, suit power, and 
 ammunition counts, and administers morphine in the presence of a painful injury so he can keep 
 going. Unfortunately, the suit does not mean invulnerability, as the suits protective power is 
 drained with each hit. When the suits power reaches zero, Gordon must rely on his own health to 
 survive. Luckily, there are health and suit chargers dotted throughout Black Mesa as well as medkits 
 and HEV power cells which will restore a little bit of health or suit power. The game has a tendency 
 of making you work for health and suit power, encouraging you to keep going even when youre on 
 the verge of death.
  
  Gordon is then let into the test chamber. The experiment begins routinely, nothing seems out of 
 the ordinary, until a strange crystalline specimen is introduced to the cycle, which causes everything 
 to go awry. The resulting resonance cascade rips open the dimensional seams between Earth and 
 an alien world, called Xen. Severe structural damage is caused to Black Mesa, and now aliens have 
 begun to teleport in randomly, killing anything in sight. This is where Gordons quest begins.
 
  
  The game has a great way of making you feel that youre always in danger, whether it be from aliens 
 trying to maul you or sections of the facility collapsing to impede your progress. It doesnt take 
 a high fall to cause noticeable damage to make you limp on to your next objective. The Xenian aliens 
 that come in vary greatly, from the small headcrab to the enormous and terrifying Gargantua. Each 
 monster is potentially threatening, and each one can send you to your death if youre not careful.
 
  
  The game consists of about eighteen or so levels, the majority taking place in and around Black 
 Mesa, and the final few on Xen. The Xen levels are not as well-received by players, claiming that 
 the Black Mesa levels are better designed. When you think about it, the chapters on Xen are essentially 
 one jumping puzzle after another, with some combat mixed in. In Black Mesa, there is a feeling 
 of familiarity with the facility, with danger breaking in when you least expect it to.
  
  Gordon picks up a variety of weapons on Black Mesa and Xen, ranging from his signature crowbar 
 to the fearsome Gluon Gun, which will destroy just about anything its aimed at. More often than 
 not youll be using your crowbar to hack open air ducts and crates, also using it to swat away 
 headcrabs and gut those annoying Barnacles that grab you and try to make you their lunch. Some 
 weapons are terrifyingly powerful, while others are obviously meant for killing lesser foes. Later 
 on in the game you will receive the experimental Gluon Gun, which is just about the most powerful 
 thing in Gordons arsenal. It annihilates everything, but consumes ammo quickly. Another weapon, 
 the Hornet Gun, while not as powerful, will never run out of ammo.
  
  There is also a small squad mechanic in Half-Life, seeing as you can have guards on the Black Mesa 
 Security Team (the Barneys) , which can help you out in combat and access restricted areas. You 
 can also lead scientists around, which can open other areas to you (most of them ammo caches) , 
 and will heal you if youre significantly injured. The only downside is that Barneys and scientists 
 are easily killed, and enemies will tend to attack them over you. The AI for Half-Life was at its 
 pinnacle in 1998, featuring squads of soldiers sent to cover up the incident, silencing anyone 
 related to the project. The squad members work together as a unit rather than going solo, youll 
 often find a group of soldiers waiting for you as you stroll into a room. For the most part, the 
 aliens will seek out anything that moves, whether it be you, Barneys, or HECU soldiers. Sometimes 
 its fun to watch soldiers fight Xenians, see who wins, and then clean up the rest.
  
  The sound for Half-Life is just as amazing as the other aspects of the game, from ambient sounds 
 to the shriek a headcrab makes when it clearly wants your skull. The weapon sounds also sound great, 
 which have a tendency to express even further how powerful your weapons can be. The Gluon Gun is 
 a thunderous stream, while the crowbar is a nice solid swish through the air. The pistol sounds 
 like an actual pistol.
  
  Half-Life has set the template for all of the first-person shooters that followed it, and will 
 surely be remembered as one of the best first-person shooters of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_mario_128
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Well this game is pretty fun. It won 50 gaming awards it has quite solid gameplay and is worth 
 the buy. It can get pretty boring at some points unlike the sequel which was IMO a lot more fun 
 and immersive. Since gameplay over graphics I cant say the graphics ruined the experience, but 
 the graphics in Half Life 2 really added to the experience. If you have already got Half Life 2 
 you should definitely buy this game because you will see where the story came from. It is a so-so 
 experience but still ok to play.
  The bosses on this game are really hard at some points so if you are looking for a challenge then 
 this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  For this review i will look at the game from its 1998 impression it had on me and how it fares 
 today.
  
  As I said the graphics in this game arent the best by todays standards so those people who care 
 so much about games having good graphics, well they should just go get HL2, look at most of the 
 bad reviews of halflife and you will see that its the graphics that lose it most of its marks, 
 most of these people are halflife2 players who played the sequal before the origional. From these 
 people you'll hear comments about how the stories of the 2 games dont match (which they pin the 
 blame on the 1st game) , well seeing as this one came out first i would come to the obvious conclusion 
 that the 2nd might be the problem. but anyway, heres my opinion - 
  
  STORY- halflife has NOTHING to do with the combine, the story of halflife2 has next to no link 
 with the 1st game bar the inclusion of a few of the same characters.
  The game is set in a secret scientific research facility known as black mesa, you assume the role 
 of Gordon Freeman, a theoretical physicist working in the facility. An experiment involving an 
 unknown unstable, in which the scientists are trying to master teleportation, leads to disaster 
 as an unknown alien race begins to storm the facility and massacre anything and everything in its 
 path.
  And in true FPS style only you can stop them. There are several brilliant twists in the story which 
 most people will know of even if they havent played played the game before, for me these were true 
 surprises and i wasnt expecting them sofor me the story was excellent, even if it is a total rip 
 off of doom.
  
  GAMEPLAY 1998- The AI was excellent, it was on level that hadnt really been seen before, other 
 games used similar methods but with less effectiveness, the enemies in this game were dangerous 
 and a force to be reconned with, especiall on the harder difficulty settings. All in all the gameplay 
 was just a really fast paced generic FPS, but its just fun to play, finding new uses for weapons, 
 trying to catch opponents of guard and giving them no chance of retalliation, i really enjoyed 
 the game, there were so many different types of enemies it never got boring, and the weapons were 
 great too.
  GAMEPLAY 2006- Nowadays the gameplay is just as fun for me, those who played HL2 first who CAN 
 look past graphics will notice the gameplay is almost identical to that of HL2. This game really 
 is a generic FPS with some added puzzles and very varied enemies and enviroments, its a style thats 
 been around since wolfenstein and will continue to live on.
  
  ENVIROMENTS/ LEVEL DESIGN- the game is nearly all indoors in the research facility, indoor shooters 
 are becoming increasingly unpopular nowadays, but the design of the facility is so varied it doesnt 
 seem repeditive. The different locations are very well designed to offer conflicts that will be 
 different every time you play, open chambers take away from the linear style of the game, narrow 
 corridoors allow for great fire fights. GRAPHICS 1998- In its day halflifes graphics were brilliant, 
 they had surpassed the N64 graphics and i thought the game looked so real, the people were still 
 really blocky though but the enviroments were amazing.
  GRAPHICS 2006- Pretty damn bad, the HI-DEF model pack however does make the game look worthy of 
 the graphics you would expect to see on any ps2 FPS, this can be downloaded for free on steam. 
 But as i said GRAPHICS ARENT IMPORTANT! SOUND- Excellent in its day, still very good today, a cool 
 reverb effect is used to create very unique but realistic enviromental sounds for the game, if 
 you use a headset then you can also get surround sound.
  
  VALUE- you dont get much more for your money than with halflife, the anthology contains 4 great 
 games, there are tonnes of mods to go with the game too, even if you hate the regular game theres 
 still something for you in one of the mods.
  
  - well this is one of my favourite games, so if you are the type of person who can get their head 
 around how a game looks then this is definately worth the buy, the anthology edition is great value. 
 And as i said, some of the mods are worth the buy alone.
  
  - for those who played HL2 first, this is gonna be hit or miss really, just remember this game 
 doesnt use the physics engine HL2 uses so gravity gun lovers probably wont like it that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Simple & Rather scripted, but hey, it was 1998, c'mon.
  Graphics: Simply Put... 1998!
  Sound: Robotic & Clunky
  Value: Dont Spend More Than 10.00, 
 get it for 5.00 if possible!
  
  I only bought the game beacuse I wanted to know what the hell was everyone talking about "he black 
 messa incident" in HL2? Thus, I got this game used for 7.00 on eBay & though it sucked *IMO, the 
 ability to catch up with HL2 & Episode One was worth maybe 10.00. So if you need to know what the 
 hell is going on... get it but if you like flashy graphics & open gameplay, just remember....1998!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is a scifi first person shooter portraying a scientist named Gordon Freeman who happens 
 to be part of a research experiment gone wrong and must fight his way through aliens and soldiers 
 who seek to hide the truth of the Black Mesa incident.
  
  Graphics: For the time, the graphics were awesome. I remember the first time I played the game 
 and couldn't realize how amazingly realistic (note: for the time) it looked. Today, if you can 
 get past the graphics, its truely still a great game. Sound: Great detail went into the sound design. 
 Everything from explosions, to gunfire, to the great voice acting. It still holds up the test of 
 time.
  
  Gameplay: One word. Perfect. Nothing is wrong with it. nothing could be done to improve upon it, 
 except for that of Half-Life2, but thats a different review.
  
  One final note I leave you is, that you must live in a hole if you have not heard of or played 
 Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MronoC
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to note that my scores take changes in the standards in video and audio 
 performance into account, that being said it's still an amazing AAA game. The graphics are somewhat 
 dated, but there still more than serviceable. The only real problem was with some of the audio. 
 I sometimes found it difficult to hear and understand some of the dialog, but for the most part 
 it was clear enough and the sound effects were decent. As far as game play, Half-Life is flawless, 
 the general problem with FPS games is that shooting people in the head gets old after a while, 
 but half-life manages to keep each encounter fresh and unique with a clever use of varied environments, 
 which can vastly change the gameplay, best exhibited by the cliff side level. The game does further 
 to eliminate any chance of tedium by throwing in intellectually stimulating jumping puzzles. Finally 
 there's a question of replayability, which is aided by multiple difficulties and multi-player, 
 though perhaps helped mostly by mods, such as counter-strike and action half life. The bottom line 
 is that after eight years this is still the standard for what a first person shooter should be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessOfFate1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes Half-Life. You see it referred to as one of the greatest of not the greatest shooters ever 
 made. I dont think it quite makes it there but it is a high quality product.
  
  The main problem I have with Half-Life is its very possible to get totally stuck in the game. 
 If you save when you are low on health or when you dont have an explosive or other item when you 
 need it you can get utterly struck. I got to Surface Tension, one of the last levels of the game 
 and there a place where there are turrets in windows that are impervious to all weapons and that 
 shoot you dead in a few shots. If you dont have a rocket you cant kill the turret and thus cant 
 ever finish the level. Oh what luck that before that you face two tanks and I used up all my grenades 
 and rockets on them leaving me with no way to ever finish this stage because there no way to kill 
 the turrets without restarting the entire game again. Just what I wanted after slogging my way 
 through hours of this otherwise great and very long shooter How this was make so is anyones guess. 
 Didnt Valve foresee this and do something about it? No of corse not it seems to have been left 
 in on purpose just to piss people off. This is pretty much the extent of half-lifes problems.
 
  
  The graphics enhanced with the High definition pack you get when you download blue shift which 
 is from off steam are fantastic. The gam looks much sharper with high resolution textures and really 
 cool looking weapons, particularly the crossbow. People also look far better with much less jagged 
 edges, they dont like 70 years old like they used to There are no new character models. But with 
 the amount of memory video cards had in those days, anymore models may have required more texture 
 memory than was available.
  
  One of the greatest things about half life is its very varied environments. The scenery changes 
 very often and one minute youll be walking along a hallway blasting things with a shotgun before 
 heading into a tiny, dark and claustrophobic vent shaft before coming out on the surface of the 
 complex and being bombed by helicopters before making your way through a huge slime covered conveyor 
 belt driver processing plant and so on the game just keeps throwing you into new places and this 
 goes a lot way to keeping the game interesting. No shooter before it had done anything like this.
 
  
  There are a good variety of weapons in half life from the familiar such as the 9mm Glock and single 
 barred pump action shotgun and SMG with secondary grenade launcher to the downright weird like 
 the Hornet Gun, a huge clawed glove that fires regenerating hornets at enemies and Snarks little 
 alien creatures that you toss on the ground and let them chew through anyone in the area, (Including 
 you if there isnt anyone else!) as well as the red and silver crowbar that has achieved iconic 
 status as a symbol of half life, even it is really only useful for destroying the copious amounts 
 of crates and boxes to unearth more ammo and the like. The weapons sound nice and beefy and you 
 can feel their power through their sound.
  
  Half-lifes sound is excellent and really adds atmosphere to its experience. All the while your 
 walking along youll hear machinery humming water flowing, helicopters in the distance nearby monsters 
 making creepy noises marines radioing each other orders and so on the sound really sucks you in. 
 monster noise in particular is great with suitably disgusting and crazy noises for them Headcrabs 
 have that trademark muttering and the loathsome sound they make as they jump at you to eat your 
 brains zombies make this crazy laugh while they pummel you with their claws and the marines you 
 encounter constantly radio others with orders and warnings. The sound just seems naturel and suits 
 all the action perfectly. The voice acting can be pretty flat at times tho and there only a few 
 voices for scientists and one for all the security guards. Still for when the game was made too 
 much sound would have required more ram and processing power than the computers back then could 
 have provided.
  
  Half-lifes game play is much like that of any other shooter but the environments and the enemies 
 is what makes it so different The environments are so varied as said in the graphics section that 
 the game remains constantly interesting and fresh unlike a stale corridor shooter. It really compels 
 you forward with the frantic pacing and the urge to find out whats next. As well as with cool 
 set pieces and a good story. Half-life is just very addictive and youll for certain find it hard 
 to stop playing.
  
  All up Half-life lives up to most of its legendary status but I wouldnt call it the best shooter 
 ever. That said its still a must play for any gamer and its available for next to nothing nowadays 
 as well! Play this game!
  
  Fin
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katosepe321
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Half Life is known for being one of the greatest first person shooters of all time. While I don't 
 think it fully deserves that title, it does bring a lot to the genre and is a great step.
  Gameplay/Story: You take control of Gordon Freeman, a low-level scientist in a secret government 
 testing facility known as Black Mesa. You soon find out that you are supposed to be in some room, 
 testing unstable material. All of the sudden, everything goes to hell and aliens start popping 
 out of nowhere trying to kill you. Not the most creative story in the world, but it's still entertaining. 
 The actual gameplay is much like every other FPS in the world. Go from level to level, blowing 
 crap up with bigger and stronger guns. However, throw in the occasional puzzle and make the enemies 
 powerful enough that you actually have to use strategy, and you come up with a pretty decent game. 
 Even on the easiest difficulty, you will most likely have trouble with these guys. 
  Graphics: ouch... just ouch... the environments look good and the aliens look good but the people... 
 *shudder*. The heads look like blocks and there are only about 4 different human character models 
 throughout the game. It's pretty sad. But the environments look good!
  Sound: Sound effects are really cool. When the aliens shoot lightning blasts at you, you know what 
 they are and they make you nervous. Exactly what good sound effects should do. However, the sparcely 
 placed vo's are mostly just the same repetitive things from very generic characters. "Lets stick 
 together!" and "Your injured, Gordon" are pretty much the only things your gonna hear.
  Value: For the age of this game, it is definitely worth the money. However, once you beat it, you 
 probably won't be playing through this one again.
  While Half Life is a good game, it certainly doesn't deserve the "Greatest FPS ever made" title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam_woo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  this is the only review i've written and is the only game that i can truly call perfect. so perfect, 
 right now it's really hard for me to find words
  
  i don't want to sound like a fanboy, just hear me out. (im really not, i only first played it six 
 months ago)
  
  if you were to play only half life and nothing more, only the single player game, that alone would 
 be worth about a 9.0. It's got top notch visuals (for 1998, we're talkin' starcraft) , fantastic 
 sound, a very immersive atmosphere with a great story to go along with it, and unparraleled (otherwise 
 copied from) gameplay. 
  
  It was the first modern fps, meaning the first shooter with goldeneye styled control, composed 
 of a movement interface and a look/aim interface (or in the classic goldeneye scheme, an intermanglement 
 of the two) . 
  
  However there isn't much replay value after the game is completed
  
  GUESS WHAT, MODS!!! 
  
  OH YEAH COUNTER STRIKE OH YEAH TEAM FORTRESS OH YEAH OPPOSING FORCE 
 WHICH IS ACTUALLY AN EXPANSION OH YEAH IM BAD AT WRITING REVIEWS OH YEAH DAY OF DEFEAT OH YEAH 
 **** OH YEAH BLUE SHIFT OH YEAH THEY MADE HALF LIFE TWO OH YEAH ITS STILL A SUPER SOLID GAME OH 
 YEAH LETS UPGRADE COUNTERSTRIKE AND DAY OF DEFEAT THEN WAIT TWO YEARS AND UPGRADE TEAM FORTRESS 
 AND MAKE IT LOOK LIKE THE INCREDIBLES BUT WHO CARES ITS KINDA COOL OH YEAH I WONDER IF THEY'LL 
 MAKE A HALF LIFE THREE THAT I WILL EXPLAIN WHAT HAPPENED IN THE EPISODES BECAUSE THEY'RE STARTING 
 TO PISS ME OFF BECAUSE THEY BREAK THE MYSTIQUE OF THE HALF LIFE STORYLINE BY COMPLETELY IGNORING 
 THE FACT THAT THERE SHOULD BE A HUGE LAPSE OF TIME BETWEEN GAMES BECAUSE GMAN'S ALL LIKE WE DON'T 
 NEED YOU RIGHT NOW BUT IF THEY DON'T MAKE HL3 I'LL PLAY THEM OH YEAH HALF LIFE'S THE BEST
  
  yeah so i got bored of writing a review so i went insane...
  
  hmm... yeah halflife is 
 pretty amazing
  
  no but honestly, half life is an amazing engine and steam is an amazing platform to put all of 
 it in. to me it's almost like one huge amazing game
  
  the best part is that that there's almost no doubt that you can run it so it's very easily accesable, 
 and because of steam you don't have to worry about going out to a store to buy it XP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbeacham
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  I was a little jaded when I played through this game because I first played half life 2 on xbox 
 and episode 1 on PC so I came into the original half life thinking for some reason that the graphics 
 would be up to date, etc. But after I got over the bad graphics (by today's standards. Back then 
 I'm sure they were good) I quickly found that Half Life is still a great shooter even by today's 
 standards. The gamplay is great and the action is awesome. I absolutely loved Half LIfe 2, it is 
 one of the best games ever, and now I am glad I played through the father of the series because 
 it is interesting to see how the story unfolds. Don't come into this game thinking that it will 
 blow your mind graphically or with sound because by today's standards it won't. Just remember that 
 this game is old school yet it is still an awesome game to play, and is well worth the low price 
 tag. If only they could remake the game with today's visuals and sound..... it would be phenomenal. 
 O well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Charge up your hazard-protected suit and once again step forward to face new species of Zen. They 
 can roam in water, air, toxic waste and even in human bodies. Be one of the survivors of the terrible 
 scientific project, that brought all the monsters through the portal. Be ready to give a hand to 
 others survivors in order to load yourself with guns to the teeth and bring down the source of 
 evil.
  The game requires you to use logical and tactical tricks with different types of weapons and items. 
 Your enemies will be human military forces as well, using even the army vehicles to sweep you off 
 the face of the earth, because Freeman (main char) knows heck of a lot about the accident in black 
 mesa. Sometimes enemies fight among themselves, that is very convenient for you to build up a new 
 strategy. Many weapons have special abilities (secondary attack) and can be used for instant enemy 
 kill (though the cost of it is pretty high) . Crowbar will be your second arm and flashlight will 
 be your eyes - lot of obstacles to rid off and uncountable amount of tunnels to crawl through that 
 are infested with mutants and waiting for you around the corner.
  The game is really long and spicy, dozens of mysterious, beautiful and deadly landscapes to run 
 through. There is nowhere to run and you have to stay alive... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_p_e_n_s_i_l_o
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  HALF LIFE IS KING. very simple. AI was ahead of its time, its the most immersive game ever (save 
 possibly the sequel) , and was the first fps to make you think. this game has puzzles, wit, story, 
 action, and ITS NOT FORCEFED!! no scripted cutscenes, and the gameplay changes. whenever most games 
 run out of steam, hl just changes the game. you get a railway car, a new gun, a new environment, 
 something!!! the best thing about the game however is that you have to pay attention to know your 
 goal. you cant just ad lib what you have to do. theres no red arrow on the "minimap" (no minimap 
 btw... n00b) and you have to figure out the story alone. you will be helped by the meatsacks who 
 are stationed with you, but they are at least more intelligent than anything else youll find in 
 1998 video games. simply put, it was revolutionary. it still is. play it. you wont be sorry. also, 
 did i mention the actual action and gameplay is top notch? well it is. with varying difficulty 
 you can play however u want. go nuts. multiplayer is pretty good, actually, but stick with the 
 source version now. ps sound is great too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etheral_Filcher
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is one of the first FPS to offer an interactive, realistic environment. The graphics 
 are great, the textures are varied, and the monsters look believable. The sound is good, and you 
 will often find yourself jumping in your seat when you hear the distinctive sound of a Head-Crab. 
 The AI is revolutionary. You enemies no longer rush at you like mindless creatures, but they will 
 duck, flush you out with grenades, and gang-up on you.
  
  In Half-Life you play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist for the Black Mesa facility. You start the 
 game on a normal day at work. While you are working with other scientists out something goes drastically 
 wrong (who saw that coming?) and all hell breaks loose. 
  
  You will play out the entire game through the eyes of Gordon Freeman. There are no cut-scenes in 
 the game, everything that happens is seen through the eyes of Gordon Freeman. This helps immerse 
 you in the game because your experience isn't interrupted by cut-scenes. Half-Life doesn't have 
 standard levels like other games. The games different sections seamlessly blend together. Half-Life 
 is all one big, immersive experience. You play from start to finish with no cut-scenes, and no 
 levels. There are no interruptions (with the exception of loading screens) .
  
  Throughout Half-Life you will experience several different environments including a science lab, 
 and underground train station, a rocket lab, and more. All these environments are fresh, and different 
 enough from one another so the game never gets boring. Throughout these various environments the 
 game retains it great look and immersive feel.
  
  The weapons in Half-Life are decent. They include the average selection of shotguns, machine guns, 
 pistols, and grenades but things like "particle accelerators" and strange alien guns spice things 
 up. The weapon selection is varied enough that you will probably find two or three favorites and 
 stick with them throughout the game.
  
  Half-Life isn't perfect though. All the security guards look exactly the same, and there are only 
 several character models for scientists, so expect different characters to look exactly alike. 
 Also, because the games environments are so varied you may find yourself enjoying some parts of 
 the games more than others, and the game can feel like a roller coaster. Without giving anything 
 away, the last fight of the game is very disapointing, easy, and feels over before it's started. 
 Despite menial dissapointments Half-Life is still a great game worth the money, and is definitely 
 a must have for all FPS fans. Don't miss out on this great experience, go buy the game today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  I first got this game in a bundle with other games. I only bought this game because i wanted to 
 know what happened before the combines took over. But this game did such a bad job portraying th 
 story line.
  gameplay 8/10
  Its like a regular half life game exept for the talking. Something people talk about important 
 things and i accidendlty press e and they say something like "let me come with you" Which is very 
 annoying so i didnt know where to go most of the time.
  Graphics 5/10
  The graphics arent good and arent bad but they do kinda blow. Thats about all.
  sound 8/10
 
  Everybody talks and the music corresponds with the enviroment which is kinda of cool.
  Value 10/10
  This game came in a bundle with 5 other half life games for 20$ Also the best thing 
 about this game is the amount of mods for it. The mods add so much replay value to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Everything.
  Lows: I will get back to you on that.
  
  The first person shooter was born when id software developed its share-ware classic Wolfenstien 
 3-dee in 1991. Then two years later they made it the dominate genre in a previously mostly platforming 
 world with DOOM. Now the Shooter is perfected (note that I gave this a 99 not a 100 because I do 
 not belive in that) with Half-Life. Why is Half0Life the greatest gaming experinece sincem ever? 
 Because from start to finish it is an incredibly action-packed and immerisive game that only a 
 true sadist can not love. In the game you play as Gordon Freeman, who is like Dirty Harry in Doctor 
 Strangelove's field. Gordon is a Research scientist at Black Mesa research center and one day because 
 of a calculation error he teleports hordes of aliens to the base. And then to make matters worse 
 Marines are sent in to not only control the threat but also to stop people on the outside from 
 knowing this happened by killing off the science team. Gordon must fight his way through the base 
 to reach a special lab where he can go into the Alien's dimension and destroy thier master who 
 can teleport them into our world. The game is about thirdy to forty hours long first try and is 
 filed with awesome action and fun puzzels. Its AI fights smarter than most games today, the soliders 
 will trough grenades when you run for cover, never let the lead stop and effectivly use all their 
 assets. While the Aliens are not as smart they are still very fun to fight. The enemies are tough 
 and supplies are rare but you still will not find any extreme difficulty while playing the default 
 easy setting. You get the standard FPS weapons, MP-5s, SPAS-12, Glocks, Magnums, crossbows et cetera 
 but you also get two cool future weapons, a Gauss cannon, which is an laser gun you can charge 
 up for a power balst for fire full auto and the gun from Ghostbuter's! Which (like in the movie) 
 is a radiological beam cannon that desemates your enemies. The Aliens are pretty cool, one shoots 
 lightning, one is a big tall guy with a gun that fires bugs that seek you to some extent, one flies 
 around throwing plasma balls at you and the most famous of a is a crab that jumps on to your head 
 and makes you a zombie. All the enemies require diffenet tatics to fight and some weapons are better 
 for certain enemies that others. The locations are mostly very cool looking labs but also incule 
 a hydroelectric damn (that level makes for the greatest experince in video game history) , the alien's 
 world which has both wierd floating islands and some alien industrial plant, and offices. 
  
  Bottom Line: It is impossible to say enough good things about this game and impossible to same 
 any bad things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bildo2020
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Ever since 1998, the FPS genre has never been the same. When a tiny little company called Valve 
 created its first game, I dont think they could have ever imagined it to be such a huge success. 
 Half Life single handedly changed the way FPS's stories are told and had intellegent AI to boot!
 
  
  In Half Life you are Dr. Gordon Freeman who is employed by a government research lab in Black Mesa, 
 New Mexico. In this secrect research facility, somethign had gone terribly wrong ! Aliens began 
 pouring through a portal and quickly took over the facility within only a few hours causing massive 
 amounts of destruction. On top of the alien menace, the government has sent in its own troops to 
 quickly silence this unforseen consequence by eliminating all the aliens and everyone associated 
 with the project, including gordon. As Gordon you will think, shoot and run your way through the 
 Black Mesa complex in an atempt to reach the surface and escape with help. While on your journey 
 you become involved in a much thicker plot which involes going all the way into the Alien dimension 
 and trying to thwart the invasion. 
  
  One of the things that makes this game so special to so many people thoughout the world is the 
 mysteriousness of your character, Gordon. Valve was very smart in keeping the game strictly First 
 Person. They also made sure Gordon did not speak one bit throughout the game. While playing Half 
 Life I began thinking, "Who is Gordon, really? Sure he is a scientist who is trying to save the 
 world but, I dont even know what he sounds like!" As the story unfolded without leaving your perspective 
 some questions were answered while others were left hanging, leaving people to argue amongst themselves 
 to explain what was going on. Also, Valve created another charater who was eventually dubbed the 
 "G-man" as he looked like your typical government suit complete with a neck tie and suitcase. The 
 G-man constently watched your progress through out the game and you have no idea who he is, until 
 the end of the game. This is when you realize he really is a G-man but, you dont know who he works 
 for or what his motives are. Such a simply brilliant way to keep everyone hooked.
  
  The storyline was great but another thing that sold the game was the realistic AI (for the time) . 
 Enemy soldiers would throw grenades to flush you out, use their numbers to supress and flank and 
 even retreat to find cover if you could match their firepower! Aliens would do the same, depending 
 on what type of alien they were. Headcrabs, for instance, would jsut lunge at you and atempt to 
 couple with your head. Alien Grunts, and slaves however would always work in groups and try their 
 best to get to your side, something that NPC's generally didnt do back in '98! Due to this AI, 
 the player had to start thinking about their surroundings. No longer could they just hide and shoot 
 but now they had to hide, shoot and quickly move else where because the enemy would always to flank 
 for grenade you out of your hiding spot. I was in awe when I first came into a room of soldiers, 
 and I just unloaded on them! The soldier i was shooting at quickly took cover and just then another 
 soldier came out and shot at me while moving forward and taking cover again. As I moved around 
 the map and kept hidden behind a few boxes, the enemy came from behind and killed me with a shotgun 
 blast to the back. I knew it was an enemy I had seen before because he had blood on his uniform 
 indicating I had shot him earlier. At times, I always thought the AI was a little to smart....
 
  
  There are also a very good variety of weapons. From a 9mm handgun, to a laser guided RPG you had 
 it all. Most weapons also had a secondary fire they were very useful. The Gauss gun was an expirimental 
 weapon at Black Mesa and you aquired it because a careless securicty guard charged the secondary 
 fire mode for too long and BOOM! He exploded into pieces. When fired, the Gauss gun shot out energy 
 that could bounce off walls when you charged the weapon up by holding down the secondary fire button, 
 something that always lead to a gory scene when used upon an enemy. There was also a shotgun with 
 a double blast secondary, a crossbow which zoomed, an alien weapon that recharged its bee like 
 ammunition and many other cool wepaons that proved to be very useful in the Black Mesa facility.
 
  
  Every since this epic game, many developers have copied Valves 1st person only storyline and made 
 very similar weapons. It cant be denied that this game helped reinvigorate a genere which was begininng 
 to get stale. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeGates
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Half Life is an immersing and impressive title that is known to be an instant classic. Its story 
 is amazing its gameplay, astonishing. And its graphics are pretty good. The AI is superb in every 
 way and the diffulcity is never incredibly easy or incredibly hard its always just right. this 
 is a game that you will pick every day to get through it's long hours of mezmerizing gameplay. This 
 is a start of a great series and is totally worth playing . Half Life is a game that may not be 
 perfect but it is definetly worth its low price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Half-Life (PC) Review
  By Andy Ryle (Ryle_Boy)
  
  Half-Life is one of the biggest franchises around, nobody can deny that fact, and with the expanding 
 universe, flashy graphics, superior physics and breathtaking gameplay of Half-Life 2, some of the 
 limelight is taken away from the one which started it all. 
  
  Half-Life is one the most revolutionary games the FPS genre has undergone. Its not hard to marvel 
 even now at some things what made Half-Life so great. Half-Life is often overlooked compared to 
 its successor, but Half-Life is undoubtedly royalty in the society of shooters.
  
  Half-Life sets you on the journey as the character of 27-year old Doctor Gordon Freeman, who is 
 now considered a flagship character of PC shooters. Upon arrival at Black Mesa research facility, 
 you are assigned to go to a laboratory and push a material into a machine. Things are peachy for 
 Ol Gordon up until now. Upon this action, Gordon opens a portal of sorts of which Aliens from 
 a planet move through and start attacking the scientists at Black Mesa. From the lowly Headcrab 
 to the hulking Gargantua, you must fight for survival against these critters in an attempt to get 
 the hell out of there, and up to the surface.
  
  However, along Gordons travels in the massive Black Mesa, he encounters another menace, but no, 
 this aint no freak from another world, this is the Hazardous Environment Combat Unit, a ruthless 
 group of soldiers sent in to silence the occurrence, put to death Gordon and clean up the accident, 
 and keep it all behind closed doors. 
  
  However, as mentioned before, you are on the top of their to-do list, and this isnt a good thing. 
 So, aside from those aliens, youve got folk with big guns after your sorry arse, too. 
  
  Proceeding with the story, you meet up with straggling survivors who aid you with what they can, 
 but usually, they only get in the way when theyre not opening doors for you. However, the AI was 
 quite revolutionary for its time.
  
  You eventually are transported to the aliens homeplanet  the omnious stronghold named Xen, a 
 bleak, desolate place. You have to shoot your way through a lot of murderous aliens, who can be 
 very tricky in numbers without the correct use of your arsenal. Its no good going in to a bunch 
 of aliens with a shotgun. If you want to dispatch them quickly and efficiently, you have to think 
 before you go, and use something more suitable, such as the RPG or a Grenade.
  
  After moving your way into Xen, you come up against what I like the call, the Scr*tum Spider. If 
 you saw it, youd know where I was coming from. Yes, ladies and gents, its the queen Headcrab. 
 Shes easy to defeat, a few RPGs to the thing should send you well on your way to the factory. 
 This is one of the trickiest sections of Half-Life, with all the slaves firing their green electricity 
 at you, and the Xen Masters firing all out at you, too. You get the occasional Alien Grunt, too, 
 which can be quite tricky when youre in low health. After completing this bugger of a section, 
 you proceed to one of the creepiest bosses Ive ever faced  The Nihilanth.
  
  This guy means business, but is quite easy to kill after the first try or so. I managed to kill 
 it on my first go, though. When you defeat this guy, you have pretty much completed the game. However, 
 you are confronted by the strange figure who has been seemingly stalkign you throughout the game, 
 named the G-Man. He gives you the chance of either working for him and his employers  or fight 
 off the denizens of Xen without any weapons. With only one realistic choice, you complete the game 
 when you walk through the portal.
  
  The gameplay in Half-Life was fantastic. No game had ever been as revolutionary as Half-Life. However, 
 Half-Life featured things like interactive AI, vehicles, and a very destructable and interactive 
 environment. The game is also very fast-paced, which results in a deeply enjoyable experience. 
 At times, you really feel like Freeman, and that is what you want to feel like when playing a game 
 like Half-Life.
  
  The graphics nowadays are still quite good, but even for 1998, these graphics were practically 
 unheard of. They may seem quite crude nowadays, but 8 years ago, you wouldnt get much better than 
 Half-Life. The textures look great, and give a very gritty feel to the game. The models look good, 
 and when youre against the likes of Gargantua, your heart is pounding to get away from it, an 
 atmosphere which I thought couldnt be achieved in those days, but here I am, playing it in the 
 dark, and my heart is going a mile a minute.
  
  The sound is great, too. The game has voiceovers, which are nice, and the sound effects of everything 
 are just amazing. The sound of a Gauze gun going off into a Vortagaunts skull just cant be compared 
 to, and result in some of the best sound of that generation.
  
  Nowadays, you could find Half-Life for a few bucks, or you can buy it online via the Steam client. 
 You could easily get about 10 hours of gameplay from this, and for such a cheap price, you are 
 getting a bargain. Its also such an amazing game, so youd be a fool to miss out on it.
  
  All in all, Half-Life was what the FPS genre needed, a total revolution. Half-Life was something 
 of legend, and not one of these games come around very often. A truly superb game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  In Half Life you play as Gordan Freeman but he isn"t a musle bound thinkhead. He is a scientist 
 how hasn"t even shot a gun let aloun use one. The game starts out kinda slow Gordan is just going 
 to work at the Black Mesa Recherch Ficility in New Mexico. But when the scientist are trying to 
 make a telaportation divise all hell breakes lose and alians pop out of nowere and eveyone has 
 to get to the surfece to get out and be safe. But Black Mesa isn"t a little place it is HUGE. And 
 to top that off the goverment sent in soulders to wipe eveyone out (to make sure that the word 
 about alians dosen"t get out) But after fighting your way thew this rediguluse size of a place you 
 find yourself on Xen the place were all these alians are coming from and you have to close the 
 portal between Xen and Earth.
  
  Gamplay: The gamplay is awsome the wepons are fun to use even if you dont use some all the time 
 but Gordan runes freckishly fast and throws like a girl but from runing to jumping to swimming 
 to shooting it is all fun ans easy and tight
  
  Graphics: Well time did a number on this game but remember this was mad in 1998 so when you see 
 this dont laugh becuse it was sweet lokking back in the day but it is ok I am just whating for 
 Black Mesa Source (which is diffent from Half LIfe Source)
  
  Sound: It all depends on if your speakers suck or not but if they dont then you have the pleaser 
 of listening to the sounds of Half Life. From shooting a pistle to swinging your crowbar it all 
 sounds good the sounds from the alians are cool. But you will not here Gordan say anything nor will 
 you see him Valve has made sure that you never see Gordan or here his voice not even in the bathrooms 
 were their are supposed to see mirors
  
  Value: Once betten the game (which will take quiet a bit of time) you also get with it Half Life 
 Deathmatch which is what is says you Deathmatch with people from around the wourld and it is fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2a
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Apart from the graphics which are still pretty good, this game offers, thrill, a believable world, 
 characters that make the gameplay feel more realistic, and what I find the most important, the 
 sense that you are the people's last hope, but to even save yourself is difficult!! This is not 
 like Halo, run and gun... in this game you need to "plan" more since you do not have a shield.
 
  
  All in all, this game is amazing but does not surpass or match Halo however it is pretty close 
 to Halo, in other words, Halo is slightly better, and that is why, I give this game a rating of 
 9.1 out of 10. I have been a little lenient with the graphics since this game is old, but on every 
 other aspect this game is very, very good!
  
  Some people would say that this game is overrated, but that is because they are used to games that 
 are "fast". It is very hard for me to explain myself in this aspect of the game. It's not like 
 GTA, Halo or anything like that where you kill, kill, and kill. In a way, it is but your adversaries 
 are not like supreme warriors or anything like the elites in Halo, but instead are just small weak 
 creatures that inujure you heavily if you know what I mean. And there are lots of those creatures!
 
  
  This game has a more scientific storyline rather than a historical one. If you like this game, 
 be like me and buy a Wii and send millions of emails to Valve asking them for ports of their Half-Life 
 games to the Wii! Remember the Wii is better than the PC at First-Person Shooter's (fps) . Now that's 
 something new, wouldn't you agree? I find it pretty amazing that a console can surpass the PC at 
 fps games... anyway I hope my review helped you understand Half-Life, although I said many negative 
 things.... this is a very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrown86
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Half-Life is a FPS by Valve. It is also one of the most revolutionary titles to come out for the 
 FPS in the past few years.
  
  I actually didn't play this game until a few years ago. Having played Halo 2, some of the great 
 titles that have come out since then, I figured I'd look at it and see what was up. What I realized 
 is this game, despite the graphical difference between it and other games, and other newer games 
 advantages over it, still is one of the best immersive experiences out there. It really feels like 
 you are in a movie. 
  
  The game starts out simple enough. At the time it was Revolutionary to see you start the game just 
 as a normal day as our hero Gordon Freeman, a regular scienist, goes on the cart to the Black Mesa 
 Research Facility, gets his things out of his locker, gets on his HEV suit and gets set to go to 
 work. You can talk to scientists around the area and it's a normal day. However that all changes 
 when Gordon in the testing chamber puts in the sample which causes all hell to break loose. When 
 Gordon gets out he sees many of the science team dead and the facility in shambles. What's worse 
 is the aliens that the scientists were studying are now loose. Gordon picks up a crowbar along 
 the way, and so begins the story. 
  
  This game even as I'm playing it about 7 years later still is a great experience. You'll still 
 freak out when an enemy jumps out at you from the shadows. The other cool thing is there are no 
 mission objectives, just survive. You will have plenty of weapons available, some human and later 
 alien weapons will fall into your hands. Also the Research Security will help if you keep them 
 alive for a while. Enemies will transport into a area through teleportation, and immediately go 
 to kill you. Also you will contend with Mercenaries later in the game, as someone wants everyone 
 involved with the project dead. 
  
  The scope of the levels is huge, and the game stays fluid, as you just go from one level to the 
 next, no cut scenes, no break away from the action to tell you how you did on that level. This 
 is what makes the game so amazing as it puts you in the fray from the moment you load it up and 
 never lets go.
  
  The controls are good, but jumping is still a problem as it is in every FPS. 
  
  Overall Half-Life 
 is still a great game even years after it's release. You can find a High Definition pack somewhere 
 with the game, which improves the graphics considerably, but even if you can't still a game which 
 everyone should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Current System Config (Yeah my machine sucks, so im letting you know so im not biast in my review 
 as i do with any of my pc game reviews)
  
  Intel Pentium 4 2.20 ghz
  640 MB of Ram
  ATI Radeon 9250 PCI 
  
  By the time Half-Life came out, the FPS genre was in its more barbaric 
 days yet, where in most cases your objective was to run from point A to point B, finding anything 
 that would help you get to point B. Be it as it may, those games are still exceptionally fun, but 
 FPS needed somthing more besides a DM and blasting your way through endless whatever. We owe so 
 much to Half-Life, because it stepped us into a character, a story, and some unforgetable gameplay.
 
  The first thing i noticed about Half-Life, was its voice overs. In 1998 this is somthing that 
 would have been newer, and Half-life made it amazing. The atmospheric sounds and lighting made 
 this game look quite impressive. In its time, Half-life was state-of-the-art, and a beauty to look 
 at.
  This game does take quite a little wile to pick up, theres a lengthy opening where you are stuck 
 on a tram, but its all worth it. The action is dense through out the game. The several weapons 
 you can select from your aresenal are fun to operate, and a pleasure to kill with. On a more negative 
 note, this game does get exceptionally frusterating, even on the easiest diffulculty. Ammo is sparse 
 in the early parts of the game, and towards the end you will be fighting your way trough wave of 
 wave of baddies. It does get quite tedious at times. 
  To the genre it did amazing things, and i consider it easily one of the best games ever made. It's 
 definatly worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  this game has won many awards and i dont know why and yes i know it came out in 1998 and isn't 
 as good as modern games so i rated it as a old game and i can't see why people love it the game 
 starts out ok and you can see where they are going with it but they somehow mess up a little bit 
 also the game is too hard for example one solider can kill you i wasted a whole machine gun clip 
 on one guy in the head and he killed me somehow also the puzzles in my opinion are too tough for 
 a FPS i dont want to spend an extra 5-10 min figuring out puzzles but to fight i really dont understand 
 how this game got so many awards i feel its another old FPS for the PC the only good thing is the 
 multiplayer saves this game if you want a good old FPS from valve play gunman its much older but 
 much much better story and guns and i had more fun
  
  PS. i like the half life series allot and finally found HL1 and bought it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesanfelippo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life was certainly revolutionary. Before it came on the scene most FPS were just that, shooters 
 with minimal story lines, few scripted action sequences and little to no interaction with NPC's.
 
  
  I will the gave all the credit I feel it deserves: Half-Life had shocking sequences unparalleled 
 in gaming up until that time; frightening and intense battles to death with less than commonplace 
 enemies. It also looked great, sounded great and felt very realistic. It had humor, horror, fairly 
 cool weapons and it was fun to use the security guards as sidekicks.
  
  The multiplayer is a world of its own with what are probably the best mods of all time. 
  
 
  And yet the game is still incredibly overrated. If you look under the surface, the world of Half-Life 
 is really not all that deep or intriguing and as far as gameplay goes it is purely a shooter. For 
 all that is constantly said about how interesting Gordon Freeman is, about how he's not your typical 
 marine running around with a machine gun, I actually find him very uninteresting. He never gets 
 much of a chance to speak during the game and nothing you do can really change the outcome or provoke 
 character development. Although he's a scientist he solves most of his problems with weapons and 
 although some of the weapons allow for some serious creativity, it eventually gets dull.
  
  I will also throw another thought out there: the setting is boring. Black Mesa starts out interesting 
 and then of course it gets trashed, but eventually its a dull place to be trudging around. One 
 thing often said about Half Life is how cool it was to seemlessly go from one area to the next 
 without having to enter different "levels". Perhaps, but when I played it I wanted to go to another 
 level just to get out of Black Mesa. Ultimately there's nothing all that inspiring about your surroundings 
 throughout much of the game. While many people might not care much about this, I think it matters 
 quite a bit for a game that's supposed to be so incredibly great. The military-science complexes 
 of a game like Deus Ex are far more interesting than Half-Life's environments as are the aliens/monsters 
 of System Shock 2 or even old Quake than the bizarre impersonal beasts Half-Life throws at you. 
 
  In the end, the game overall is great, but the single-player campaign really disappointed and at 
 times bored me. IMO Half-Life may have been a big leap forward in technical accomplishments, but 
 in terms of storytelling or vastly different gameplay its pretty shallow at second glance. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  Are you tired of playing the same game again and again, well in some situations you're obliviously 
 not, but here's a game that you can play again and again and again and so it goes on... Half-Life 
 was a completely new game from its genre and it should not be missed by any first-person shooter 
 fan. Sierra and Valve has done it again!
  
  You play as the scientist Gordon Freeman who is working in a huge laboratory underground facility 
 called Black Mesa. You're taking you normal trip to work in a mobile train, and later you go to 
 the Anomalous Materials laboratory's where you push a golden object into the huge machine, and 
 then everything goes wrong from here! Aliens and strange creatures appear all over and there's 
 dead bodies everywhere and guards and fellow scientist is trying to survive, and in most coincidences; 
 they die. Now you have to do your best to survive this chaos!
  
  The gameplay is totally awesome and it should not be missed by anyone! It has some cool details 
 and it's very intense all the way! For example; almost all the weapons has a primary and secondary 
 fire, the machine gun for example shoot normal full-automatic with primary and with secondary fire, 
 it shoots a grenade. There is a lot of weapons in Half-Life under different categories: Handguns, 
 Melee, Machine guns and so much more. 
  The game is split up into 17 sequences, that gets harder and harder. In these sequences you will 
 for example be on a little rail trip, in the facility and in a different dimension! But you'll 
 have to play the game, to experience this! And it's worth your time! The artificial intelligence 
 is both good and bad some times. The aliens act very life-like, but the guards act like they were 
 blind and they could only see monsters. If you stand between an alien and a guards gunfire, he 
 won't stop shooting. The enemy soldiers is very good at shooting, hiding, cover and they even throw 
 a grenade to get you out, of you hiding spot.
  
  The graphics is good, but not totally great, but it's okay to play with. You can live with it. 
 But the graphics has some ups and downs. The water looks actually awful and other scientists, guards 
 and soldiers looks bad too. But the monsters and aliens look quite well and their "weapons" such 
 as electric beams and shock waves look good as well.
  
  The sound is incredible and well done. Everything sounds good and life-like, for example weapons, 
 grenades, aliens, doors and footsteps. The only down side is the voices. But you'll hardly notice 
 it. Just keep shooting and running, shoot, run, run, shoot, cover, shoot, cover shoot, run, shoot, 
 run, cover, shooting, run, cover shoot, run! 
  
  There's a lot of replay value in the game, if you've finished the game once, you hardly can stop 
 playing the single player campaign again! So there is not so much to say here... ; )
  
  Over all, Half-Life is a game that everybody in this world MUST own! If you haven't played the 
 game yet, then what have you done in your entire life? Sitting on a couch eating nachos and watched 
 Oprah all day? You big ************ move your ass and get the game as quick as possible, before 
 every PC in the world gets too smart and good to play this game!
  I hope you get my point, right? :P
  
  Sincerely Dope999
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  In a world where the fps genre was beginning to get boring one game came out that changed everything. 
 Half-Life changed everything. It added a strong story, a like able character, and some of the best 
 action in any game. 
  
  The story of Half-Life has always been one of the best in an FPS, and in my opinion one of the 
 best of the best in any game. They game begins with you, Gordon Freeman, going to work. It starts 
 just like any average day. You watch the sites while on your train. You finally arrive at your 
 destination. You head to your locker and put on your H. E. V. suit. You head to the test 
  chambers to help with a teleportation experiment. The scientists tell you they have a particularly 
 special test today. As the test proceeds, a scientist comments that something seems out of place, 
 but feels it isnt a problem. Then all hell breaks loose. The experiment goes terribly wrong. The 
 test machine begins to spin out of control, and youre trapped in the test chamber. Suddenly it 
 goes dark, you reawaken only to find yourself on an alien world, your soon teleported to see another 
 group of aliens around you. After your little trip you finally re-awaken in the test chambers. 
 As you walk out of the chambers you see all kinds of destruction, and worse some of the alien have 
 started to teleport to earth. A fellow scientist tells you that you should make your way to the 
 top, and try to get help. This is essentially the beginning of Half-Life. 
  
  What makes Half-Life so good is the pacing of the game. Theres never a dull moment. The game starts 
 out with that slow train ride and vamps up to an ending that is one of the most impressive moments 
 in all of gaming. The game just keeps getting faster, and tougher. Its constantly introducing 
 new enemies forcing you to quickly adapt to situations, or giving you some sort of new puzzle. 
 This is truly what makes Half-Life so great.
  
  The audio in the game is also great. All of the people in the game have at least something to say, 
 but its the sound effects that are the best part of the audio. The guns all sound unique and ambient 
 sounds in the game suit it perfectly. Something different from most games in Half-Life is the absence 
 of music. In most games theres always some sort of music playing, but in Half-Life its rare to 
 hear music, when it does come on though it is usually a techno song that fits the mood perfectly.
 
  
  Half-Life was also able to achieve something that many games lack. It has one of the best modding 
 communities of all time. There have been literally hundreds of mods for Half-Life. Some of the 
 more popular ones are Counter-Strike, Day of Defeat, and Sven Co-op. This adds near infinite replay-ability 
 to the game, as theres always a mod you can check out. 
  My only complaint with the game is a small one. When doing some of the puzzles you are forced to 
 make pixel perfect jumps. It can sometimes be hard to make these jumps as the movement controls 
 can be a little twitchy. This is really my only problem with the game.
  
  Half-Life is by far one of the greatest games of all time. The pace it sets from beginning to end 
 is near unbeatable. It always keeps the action going, it makes you feel apart of the story, and 
 it can be a fairly challenging game, and thats what makes it so good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObviousMan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  All of these years I had heard the hype about Half Life. How it was called the best game of all 
 time. I finally decided to pick up a copy to see if this was all true. 
  
  Gameplay: Now this is where Half Life truly shines. Half Life created the perfect recipe for fps 
 games and it is a shame all first person shooters have not followed hit HL's footsteps. Half Life 
 has the perfect combination of puzzle solving, enemy AI and standard shoot-em-up action. One slight 
 issue I have with this game is how accurate the various weapons are. For instance both handguns 
 avaliable (magnum, 1911) have perfect accuracy... at any distance. 
  
  Graphics: For their time, the graphics in Half Life were top notch. Really no issues here at all. 
 It is slightly odd that Valve chose to only have about 4 character models in the whole game. This 
 can be a little anoying, but doesn't take away from the game.
  
  Sound: Sound is one of the few flaws with this game. At least on my system, dialog was very hard 
 to hear. Whenever the scientists were saying anything I had to crank the volume on my speakers. 
 Tweaking the ingame sound settings did nothing to fix this.
  
  Value: At its release, I would have paid whatever Valve asked for this game, as it would be worth 
 the price. Today it can be downloaded for $10, or the entire Half Life Anthology can be downloaded 
 for $15. There is no reason not to experience one of the greatest games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  If ever there was a revolutionary, genre defining FPS then this is the one. For it's time this 
 game really blew the FPS conventions out the window.
  The gameplay was so brilliantly done and so well put together that even the almighty half life 
 2 didn't really do much to change it. It has a perfect blend of high speed frantic action and clever-but-not-too-clever 
 puzzles. Graphics, again for it's time they were absolutely immense, gorgeous enviroments and enemies 
 made this game what it was, a good looking amazingly playing FPS. The sound too Is great, sometimes 
 the sound is the only thing that helps you to realise where enemies are. There are some really 
 cool sounding echoes and the sound changes depending on whether you are In a cavernous warehouse 
 or a cramped air vent, this really adds to the atmosphere of the game. All in all this game is 
 great and has plenty of replay value just so you can see events unfold again. A real classic game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game, I loved it, years ago, and I still love it, Half Life 1's storyline 
 was and is mysterious that it will evenually spawn one of the greating Gaming Trilogies we may 
 ever see. 
  
  The Graphics were Excellent for their time, the Game play was suberb, tons and tons of re-play 
 value, especially if your wanting to play the other side of the story, "Opposing Force." 
  
  I probally sould have written this review a long time ago, but the original Half Life Game 
 has so much to put into words, that it would take an eternity to describe the overall game. 
  
  I have to say that this is the Standard for a FPS, still to this day, Halo and Halo 2 are the 
 second standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsoap
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  There is one part of Half-Life that is not utterly enjoyable: Late in the game you travel to an 
 alien world and are forced to perform a series of platform jumping maneuvers before you can get 
 back to Earth. The control scheme of the game doesn't lend itself terribly well to this type of 
 action (later games like Metroid Prime would do a much better job with FPS Platforming) and as 
 a result the segment, while relatively brief, is frustrating and in the end not very much fun at 
 all.
  
  With that out of the way, the only thing you may need to know is that the rest of the game is practically 
 perfect.
  
  There is a tendency among game designers to draw a lot of inspiration from film. That makes sense, 
 because film is one of the primary entertainment mediums and has been for almost a century. The 
 problem with game designers emulating filmmakers though is that filmmakers have an expectation 
 of passitivity from their audience. Game designers, on the other hand, must bear in mind at all 
 times that their audience is active, participating in the process of telling the story through 
 their actions.
  
  Too often game developers do a sort of film/game hybrid where story elements are presented in a 
 very film-like way. We even call these film-like moments "cinematics" or "cutscenes" which suggest 
 that we're stepping outside the game paradigm for a moment and transitioning to something more 
 like a movie until the information necessary to understand the plot has been conveyed.
  
  Gamers are used to this, we've been watching cutscenes for years now. But the problem that Valve 
 Software addresses with their presentation of Half-Life is that it isn't all that conductive to 
 immersion and game-specific narrative to pull the player out of the action for a while and present 
 a third-person viewpoint that undermines what most designers try to do which is create a compelling 
 experience that casts the player as the role of hero.
  
  So rather than bother with cinema sequences, Valve chooses to present all plot elements in Half-Life 
 through scripted events triggered by user actions which unfold like an action movie only without 
 any long monologues or excessive exposition. Instead Half-Life asks the player to accept at face 
 value what he's seeing (much like the protagonist is required to do) and learn what he can only 
 by talking with other non-playable characters.
  
  This works flawlessly in absorbing the player into this world because things aren't spelled out 
 for you, and certain events and elements are left intentionally vague which actually succeeds in 
 increasing the tension as you play through the game. Who is the man in the suit that appears now 
 and then but vanishes before you can reach him? What is happening at Black Mesa? How can you survive?
 
  
  The game's overall presentation is remarkable as the desperation and fear permeates the game better 
 than most survival horror (and in fact Half-Life is more survival horror in the first person than 
 actual FPS) including plenty of leap-out-of-your-seat moments and some awe-inspiring battles.
 
  
  As a character you play Gordon Freeman, but as a character he is pretty flimsy since he isn't seen 
 and you don't get the chance to direct him to talk or anything. Again though, this works to Half-Life's 
 credit because it is easier for the player to assume the role of the character if they don't have 
 to try to identify with a bunch of secondary characteristics in order to feel like they are right 
 there in the thick of the action.
  
  The visuals in the game are okay but not stellar, but there is plenty of mood and atmosphere to 
 make up for graphics that were probably a year or two out of date when the game was new and are 
 seriously showing their age at this point. The audio in the game is impressive though and like 
 most other elements in HL, does its best to create the right sense of foreboding and does so by 
 being muted and giving the Black Mesa facility a sense of menace and solitude.
  
  In terms of value, it really doesn't get much better than Half-Life. The game can be found these 
 days in a variety of bundles and packages for cheap: Many include the various add-on episodes like 
 Opposing Force and Blue Shift which are decent if not quite up to the high standard of the original. 
 Besides all that, Half-Life is the base game for the insanely popular Counter-Strike team-based 
 multiplayer game plus a slew of other high-quality mods like Day of Defeat. While it is pretty 
 old at this point, you can still get a good six months worth of varied gameplay out of a cheap 
 HL package -- and that doesn't include the game itself.
  
  Half-Life is very close to being perfect. Aside from the unfortunately annoying jumping sequences 
 and the overall limp storyline (no matter how well it is presented, there isn't a lot of meat to 
 the plot overall) , very little detracts from what is otherwise a must-play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjb-sensei
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  As a relatively unknown game developer (at the time) , when Valve Software released Half-Life for 
 the PC, the average consumer probably wasn't exactly sure what to expect when they got the oppurtunity 
 to play the game. I mean, here we have a game by a developer that isn't really proven or known, 
 yet the game that they have created is supposedly so good. Would Half-Life actually turn out to 
 be a good, if not great, game that had the right formula to exceed any and all expectations? Yes.
 
  
  Honestly, it did more than that, though. It completely revolutionized the first-person shooter 
 genre. It advanced things such as the way stories would be presented in FPS's, the amount of freedom 
 you would be given, and just simply raised the bar as to how good first-person shooters (and, really, 
 games in general) could and should be.
  
  Putting you in the position of Gordon Freeman, a young research associate in the Anomalous Materials 
 Laboratory in the Black Mesa Facility, things in the world of Half-Life are pretty much smooth 
 sailing for you until one fateful day when everything seems to go haywire. Suddenly, Black Mesa 
 has become a hellish type of world of sorts, with monsters and freaky looking creatures and the 
 like having appeared from seemingly out of nowhere. Armed with nothing but your hazard suit and 
 crowbar, you must fight your way through all of these dangers and more to find out what truly happened 
 to the facility.
  
  Half-Life is similar to past first-person shooters in the sense that yes, it does feature weapons 
 and ammo and health pickups. But that's pretty much where the similarities end, especially when 
 you compare it to titles like Quake, Doom, Wolfenstein, etc. In Half-Life, you really don't have 
 to complete specific levels or stages; rather, the game itself as a whole is really one entire 
 "level." You won't see level or mission select screens like you may expect to find in an FPS. Really, 
 what this presents is a game which is pretty much non-stop action and exploration.
  
  Control in Half-Life is a pleasure, not a bother, so to say. It's the type of game that doesn't 
 mess you around with complicated controls; rather, it's the type of game where you can instantly 
 get in and start blasting some guys away (or take some whacks at them with your crowbar if you 
 have no ammo/gun) . Moving around the game is also relatively easy as the levels themselves have 
 some really ingenious designs.
  
  Gordon also has several different abilities that he can use in this game, like jump, duck, and 
 another type of jump, the long jump, which will prove to be handy in certain situations in the 
 game. Also, you'll have to depend on the help of several non-playable characters (NPCs) throughout 
 the course of the game to get past, for example, a locked door.
  
  The designs of both the human allies, human enemies, and enemies which could be described as extraterrestrial 
 in this game feature a diverse amount of types. They look unique to one another, so you really 
 won't confuse one for another (although some security guards look alike, but I suppose that's to 
 be expected) .
  
  Half-Life also sounds great. The weapons sound very similar to the real deal, and the voice acting 
 is solid all around. And, say you knock open a box, for example; the breaking of the box will sound 
 legit.
  
  Half-Life is a very lengthy game, whether you're a veteran to it or a newcomer. Before starting 
 the game you should prepare yourself to invest many, many hours into it: 25-30, maybe more, to 
 be precise... or maybe less, depending on the type of gamer you are (e. g., whether you want to 
 rush through it or take your time) . Nonetheless, we're talking about a first-person shooter here 
 that offers a playtime that rivals some role-playing games. It's that big.
  
  Overall, Half-Life, at the time of its release, took the somewhat stagnant first-person shooter 
 genre and gave it the revolution of sorts that it sorely needed. It changed the way first-person 
 shooters would be looked at by combining a deep and mature storyline, easy to master gameplay, 
 diverse level and character design, and plenty more. This game definitely deserved all of the "Game 
 of the Year" awards it received back in the day, that's for sure. If more developers' first games 
 could be as refined and polished and just plain tremendous as Half-Life is, this industry would 
 obviously be much better off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  amm ok so the game half-life is maby one of the best FPS (ferst person shooter) like every one said 
 . . . but i don't really think like this
  i mean , he is realy nice with all the monsters and all but its a little dificult
  you can be 
 stuck in aplace for houers if you can figur what to do
  and when the game start on the train its so boring!!!! and allso if you
  find a cup he dies very 
 fast because they are all noobs
  and then you need to kill the monser alone and then you don't have much life
  so u die and u 
 doing this level agin and agin and agin
  and it can really piss you off so i don't really recomende that game
  but he is very nice and 
 hard if you like such things 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mx2-option
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  These days, first person shooters clutter the gaming world with unoriginal gameplay and very thin 
 storylines. The announcement or release of a FPS is generally met with the words "Ugh... Not again!" 
 by the gaming community. A very select few break the mold and become a fixture in gamers' minds.
 
  But back in 1998, when the FPS genre was in full swing and continually thriving, one game came 
 out and made history with it's inventive storyline and immersive environments.
  
  Half-Life, from Valve Software, was that game. It broke the Doom-esque mold of FPS with it's innovative 
 gameplay and originality. Some would even say that it was a little bit ahead of it's time, but 
 gamers never complained one second about that fact.
  
  In Half-Life, you play as Gordon Freeman: a nerdy, glasses wearing scientist. Freeman is hired 
 by the Black Mesa Research Facility to conduct some mysterious experiments. Of course, when you 
 do mysterious experiments like these, something is bound to go wrong... right? Gordon soon finds 
 out this harsh reality when he comes face to face with hellish creatures and a man that seems to 
 know a lot about him... even though they (supposedly) have never met.
  
  The story in this game goes from weird to... really weird as you make your way through it. The 
 way the story is presented is absolutely amazing. You actually have no "levels" here. I would simply 
 call them "acts" or "episodes", each with their own beginning and end, but all of them tied in 
 so seamlessly that it feels like one big play, if you will. This all makes the gameplay even more 
 fun and enthralling: You are hooked from the opening scene and stay hooked throughout.
  
  Another remarkable aspect of the gameplay and story is that you actually "feel" like you're in 
 danger, mainly because Gordon Freeman isn't a beefed up hero like the other shooters back then 
 He's a simple scientist who was thrust into this hellish situation without warning and much to 
 his regret.
  Everywhere Gordon goes, all hell is breaking loose. He can't escape it, so he must stand and fight 
 against it. You'll often feel overwhelmed while being in Freeman's shoes, and that's what makes 
 this game's horror and environments believable.
  
  Unlike other shooters where health packs and armor are abundant, Half-Life keeps you on your toes. 
 Gordon is equipped with a Hazard Suit, which actually represents the health in this game, and for 
 which he must keep replenished by finding some power stations and "plugging in"... bad news is, 
 almost all of the time, those power stations are located in an area where enemies are abundant.
 
  Armor and ammo for your guns are pretty easy to come by at the beginning of the game, but the 
 more you venture into Black Mesa, the more you'll need to be stingy on the way you use it.
  
  There are also a couple of puzzles you'll have to solve while making your way across the facility. 
 None of them are boring or seem useless, but some of them can be frustrating at times.
  The areas in the game are very well designed and rarely get monotonous. You'll find yourself underground, 
 in creepy hallways, in huge reactors, outside... and all of these are masterfully rendered.
  The monsters and enemies in the game are some of the most memorable ever. Their artificial intelligence 
 was remarkable for a game of it's time. Enemy soldiers wouldn't follow you when you fled and hid 
 somewhere, they'd simply throw grenades at you to flush you out. Amongst the enemies hunting Gordon, 
 who can forget the Headcrabs? Or the mysterious and notorious G-Man?
  The weapons are also amazing, both in their look and sound. From the combat shotgun to the particle 
 accelerator... oh, and your trusty crowbar, which pretty much becomes a character of it's own.
 
  
  The graphics are astounding for a game released in the late 90's. The environments, enemies, guns, 
 characters... they all look awesome.
  The sound is also excellent, from the guns firing to the monsters screeching and howling, everything 
 is done with one objective in mind: scare the living hell out of you.
  
  Half-Life set itself apart from other shooters because of it's originality and uniqueness. It captivated 
 gamers and thrust them into a world which they would never forget. In this sequel-ridden industry 
 of today, a game like this would certainly find a niche with FPS gamers everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Now I know you people will just not recommend this review because you love this game too much. 
 I think it was a great FPS and had great graphics for a game in 1998. I still thinkt he game sould 
 have used some improvement. The weapon choice is great but should be farther extended for a gamers 
 use. Also, the game did have some funny looking accidents that I caught at the edge of my eyes. 
 First when the characters start to talk, the lips don't move until the third or fourth word they 
 say. Also, when some of the men on your side are firing weapons, they tend to misss and yet the 
 creature goes down. SO, the game had some flaws but all in all it was successfull game in my mind. 
 I would recommend it to any die-hard FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first opened up this game, I really thought I should've got something else. I mean, riding 
 the train for a minute listening to that woman talk, walking around hallways, reaching dead ends, 
 flipping switches and going to work made the first chapter and part of the second suck. But after 
 that, there is so much fun. I could stay up real late playing this. There are unexpected twists 
 and turns and a couple of fun gadgets (vending machines, microwaves) . The weapons were creative 
 and useful. My favorite is the Gluon Gun (egon) . It is supposed to shoot these tiny balls that 
 hold quarks together (physics) , so I thought it was crappy. When I used it, I realized its potential 
 and power. The bottom line is buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Half Life for a long time I heard it to be the best of all in action shooters. So I thought I`d 
 try it out. And... it was a game that was the only one of its kind that let me feel that I really 
 belong to the game. The times when headcrabs suddenly jumped at me or the tentacles made those really 
 awful screeching noise I would really get freaked out! Half Life from its first intro scene told 
 me that YES this is going to be a game that really let`s you feel the ACTION! The game is so really 
 long and is really very tough to complete.
  
  And then it comes the part where we are warped to another planet-XEN!
  The initial level is really 
 poor but overall the entire planet totally freaks me out especially Gonarch .
  
  The final boss comes to be dissappointing but after a long hard game you really deserve something 
 easy. My view is that Half Life is such a game that cannot be missed to be played by any action 
 fan let them be lightweight or hardcore. You shall see that how closely linked you shall get to 
 the game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabereal33
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 21, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  When ever someone asks what my favorite game is I think Mario 3, FF7, Doom, and Half Life. Each 
 game revolutionized the industry, but Half Life made it fun! The other games are fun, no doubt, 
 but Half Life actually makes you feel like you are immersed in a complex world with limitless possibilities. 
 However, the freedom felt is just clever scripting and level design for there really is only one 
 way to go through the game. To make a gamer feel like his choices are unique while providing astonishing 
 effects from those choices is phenomenal. The graphics and physics were groundbreaking almost still 
 playable over 8 years later. I wish this game wasn't outdated because it truly is THE BEST GAME 
 for its time. Half Life 2 is a nice update, but if you missed out on Half Life 1 you are supremely 
 unfortunate. More games need to be made like Half Life (only Riddick has come close) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  Its not a really great FPS like Halo or others, but its still a fun game. I like the weapons and 
 the lay out of the levels. The difficulty is nice and the story is pretty good. The control is 
 well done, and if your a FPS fan you shouldn't pass this game up because you can get it for $20.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is like any other FPS. It may not take the FPS genre to the next level but its still a 
 fun game and is fun to play for any FPS fan. The controls are nice, the levels layout is good, 
 the weapons are good, and the story is good. Its just not great in any areas or really average 
 in in areas. Its just a port of a older game, but it is still worth checking out.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are pretty nice. Its not as good as some FPS out but its not bad to look. 
 The player models look really good and the look of the weapons is realistic. I like the look of 
 the levels and some parts look really nice. Its not a bad looking game.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is what it should big... all the big bangs and gun shots. The voice acting is not that great 
 because all the people have the same voice almost. But the sound effects are done well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrmgamer206
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this before anything else, I love this game! Graphics in this game, amazing (for 
 it's time) ! The gameplay, along with the intense, creepy story, make a masterpiece that started 
 the modern first prson shooter. There is definently a challenge in this game though.
  
  You are Gordon Freeman of the Black Mesa Research Facility who has accidentaly opened a portal 
 to an alien world. The aliens have come in, and torn the place apart. Your job, get out alive. 
 Creepy bosses, smart aliens, and tough government agents will keep you from escaping the atrocity.
 
  
  The puzzles and the action are handled very well together, and apart. The envirement is realistic. 
 You can flip on light switches, through crates, roll chairs, break windows, and blow up gas barrols! 
 
  
  Overall, this game is a must have for the FPS fan! Awesome game Valve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadget-Man
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Half Life is one of the best fps you can buy on the pc, even though it is quite old now.
  The game is very challenging and the single player is really long. Just when you think your getting 
 to the end of the game, your just getting started.
  
  You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist. This makes the game very unique. For once you are not 
 playing as the strong, courageous hero. Your just a reguler guy.
  
  The graphics are not that good today, but at the time it was released, it must have been amazing.
 
  There are many weapons you get to use in the game, even though you just start of with a crowbar.
 
  
  There are many tense moments in the game and many twists and turns. The ending is also worthwhile, 
 and there are two possible endings.
  
  If you want a FPS for your pc, this is the perfect one to get, you will be playing it for a long 
 time. Dont be put of that its nearly 8 years old, it is still a very cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  These days, first person shooters clutter the gaming world with unoriginal gameplay and very thin 
 storylines. The announcement or release of a FPS is generally met with the words "Ugh... Not again!" 
 by the gaming community. A very select few break the mold and become a fixture in gamers' minds.
 
  But back in 1998, when the FPS genre was in full swing and continually thriving, one game came 
 out and made history with it's inventive storyline and immersive environments.
  
  Half-Life, from Valve Software, was that game. It broke the Doom-esque mold of FPS with it's innovative 
 gameplay and originality. Some would even say that it was a little bit ahead of it's time, but 
 gamers never complained one second about that fact.
  
  In Half-Life, you play as Gordon Freeman: a nerdy, glasses wearing scientist. Freeman is hired 
 by the Black Mesa Research Facility to conduct some mysterious experiments. Of course, when you 
 do mysterious experiments like these, something is bound to go wrong... right? Gordon soon finds 
 out this harsh reality when he comes face to face with hellish creatures and a man that seems to 
 know a lot about him... even though they (supposedly) have never met.
  
  The story in this game goes from weird to... really weird as you make your way through it. The 
 way the story is presented is absolutely amazing. You actually have no "levels" here. I would simply 
 call them "acts" or "episodes", each with their own beginning and end, but all of them tied in 
 so seamlessly that it feels like one big play, if you will. This all makes the gameplay even more 
 fun and enthralling: You are hooked from the opening scene and stay hooked throughout.
  
  Another remarkable aspect of the gameplay and story is that you actually "feel" like you're in 
 danger, mainly because Gordon Freeman isn't a beefed up hero like the other shooters back then 
 He's a simple scientist who was thrust into this hellish situation without warning and much to 
 his regret.
  Everywhere Gordon goes, all hell is breaking loose. He can't escape it, so he must stand and fight 
 against it. You'll often feel overwhelmed while being in Freeman's shoes, and that's what makes 
 this game's horror and environments believable.
  
  Unlike other shooters where health packs and armor are abundant, Half-Life keeps you on your toes. 
 Gordon is equipped with a Hazard Suit, which actually represents the health in this game, and for 
 which he must keep replenished by finding some power stations and "plugging in"... bad news is, 
 almost all of the time, those power stations are located in an area where enemies are abundant.
 
  Armor and ammo for your guns are pretty easy to come by at the beginning of the game, but the 
 more you venture into Black Mesa, the more you'll need to be stingy on the way you use it.
  
  There are also a couple of puzzles you'll have to solve while making your way across the facility. 
 None of them are boring or seem useless, but some of them can be frustrating at times.
  The areas in the game are very well designed and rarely get monotonous. You'll find yourself underground, 
 in creepy hallways, in huge reactors, outside... and all of these are masterfully rendered.
  The monsters and enemies in the game are some of the most memorable ever. Their artificial intelligence 
 was remarkable for a game of it's time. Enemy soldiers wouldn't follow you when you fled and hid 
 somewhere, they'd simply throw grenades at you to flush you out. Amongst the enemies hunting Gordon, 
 who can forget the Headcrabs? Or the mysterious and notorious G-Man?
  The weapons are also amazing, both in their look and sound. From the combat shotgun to the particle 
 accelerator... oh, and your trusty crowbar, which pretty much becomes a character of it's own.
 
  
  The graphics are astounding for a game released in the late 90's. The environments, enemies, guns, 
 characters... they all look awesome.
  The sound is also excellent, from the guns firing to the monsters screeching and howling, everything 
 is done with one objective in mind: scare the living hell out of you.
  
  Half-Life set itself apart from other shooters because of it's originality and uniqueness. It captivated 
 gamers and thrust them into a world which they would never forget. In this sequel-ridden industry 
 of today, a game like this would certainly find a niche with FPS gamers everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  Te game has a great gameplay and a storyline with great powerfull monster and the graphics are 
 okay but as u play and u get deeper into the game ull think that uve gone so far that ure gonna 
 finish it well dont be so mr "im gonna finish the game" because the story is far from what is see 
 and belive me its not gonna be easy because there will be bigger and better moster but if u only 
 have a pistol well good luck on that because its gonna be a hard game and its never easy when ure 
 near big monster like garg, alien grunt or tentacle 
  
  the game may be old but the expensive price is worth it all!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  When it first came out back in1998, Half-life was defenetly the greatest FPS out there. When we 
 looked at Doom and Quake 2 as great shooters, Half-life completly blew them out of the water and 
 set a whole new standard for present day FPS games. It's unique gameplay, graphics, sound, and 
 storyline kept gamers glued to their chairs for hours to come. Players could easly jump in the 
 shoes of hero Gordon Freeman and fight back aliens trying to save the lives of his collegues in 
 the extended high-tech maze of labs at Black Mesa Research Facility. The incredible amount of weapons 
 and their realistic sound and feel kept you firing that M-16 like crazy even when all the enemies 
 were long gone dead. The dynamic voice-overs reminded you that the fellow scientist following you 
 is scared of dieing, that the security guard is willing to jump into the frey and help you save 
 the lives of others at the risk of his own, that the marines sent in by the government aren't exactly 
 on your side and will do anything to get Black Mesa back to normal even if it takes killing an 
 innocent or two.
  One of the greatest games of all time, even if quite old now, it deserves to be on your shelf. 
 It's perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  you play noman feedman a scintist that was wokring o an expeiment that went qrong and the planet 
 was over run by a bunch of alin monsters and you got to stop them of course this is the best fps 
 on the pc to date and i just love it in there you rhe gun play is so good in this game and there 
 is so many diffrent enimeis and bosses in this gam ehtta you can kill lets ge to the gameplay in 
 tihs game um it laot of fun and the stor alos come out like an rog would but killing horde of alien 
 can get repetvie and the graphics in the game are old but good for the area and the osund was lacking 
 and some of the dialogue did not match whats was on the screen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burninghawk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  A revolutionry game is a game that has evolved past all other games to redefine a new taste of 
 graphics, AI intelligence, sound, and fun in gameplay. One game that has done that more then any 
 other game in years beside it, is Half Life.
  
  If you would have played Half Life as soon as it came out, chances were your computer werent able 
 to handle them. The graphics were killer, the sound was excellent, and the gameplay was an aging 
 entertainment without a death.
  
  The gameplay is incredible. First of all, they are all sorts of enemies you face, along with a 
 huge arsenal of weapons, and AI with intelligence that went ahead of all other games by like 3 
 years. This game will never tire you but at times will get you stuck as you try to find a way past 
 a door or try to defeat a monster with no weak points, and situations like that. But, otherwise, 
 it is amazing.
  
  The graphics then were revolutionary, and even now are pretty solid. So the graphics are pixelised, 
 it's stil amazing. Almost nothing in the game has little detail. 
  
  The sound was good. The sound effects created from the sound of the guns to the noises the creatures 
 make are great. But they did not have enough music in the game to create a little atmosphere. You 
 have to have music in a first person shooter.
  
  The game is really cheap now and does deserve a demo from every gamer. If you care enough to own 
 a PC, you owe it to yourself to play Half Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Well you start off as a scientist who you would have never known that he could accomplish so much. 
 His name is Gordon freeman and his Bad*ss weapon is a crowbar but of course that is just his first 
 weapon and you can be sure that this is a very long game. Half Life is a puzzle game as well as 
 a FPS game but I think it covers the puzzle part a little more then the FPS part.
  
  SOUND: while it can be creepy at times hearing the creatures scream but this is very good for the 
 time and it still holds up pretty well.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: Well if youre an FFS - Puzzle solver (also some of the puzzles can really get hard 
 if you dont know what your doing) you will love this game and even if you are not a FPS gamer you 
 will still like this game.
  
  GRAPHICS: I think it was very good graphics for the time altho its a little old looking now.
 
  
  Overall a Great game and a ok story - so you must get this game if you know whats good for ya.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeDevine
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Half life is one of the greatest PC shooters ever made. Doom, Quake, Serious Sam... All of those 
 games flippin blow compared to Half life. Half life has insane action, Puzzling situation, and 
 what other game has Snarks! Even when you arent playing the single player campaign, the multiplayer 
 holds up to 32 players which means total pwnage. Once you finnish Half life i Highly reccomend 
 Half life: Opposing force. That is a great addition, its basically half life w/ more sweet weapons 
 and new baddies. If u want to be cool, you better buy this game and play the sweet story mode, 
 and the amazing multiplayer. And once your done with that, Get Opposing Force!! peace broskies!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Fro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is simply an engaging, well polished masterpiece with few flaws present.
  
  *SPOILERS PRESENT*
  
  Gameplay:
  One of the most important things in a first person shooter 
 is the controls and Half-Life does this right as it feels tight and responsive without delays or 
 any other problems. The weapons that you'll find are all pretty balanced, nothing is too powerful 
 or too weak and most get regular use as each gun works well in different situations. One of the 
 coolest things in the game is the enemies that you'll encounter. Everything from human soldiers 
 to zombies to bizarre alien creatures will be trying to prevent you from attaining your goal keeping 
 the game entertaining from beginning to end. As you venture through Black Mesa you will have to 
 pass through interesting and well designed environments ranging from ruined laboratories and war 
 zones to the alien homeworld itself (called Xen) . The crowning achievement of Half-Life is its 
 intense AI. Starting out the enemies all seem no smarter than the enemies that you would find in 
 any other first person shooter, until you encounter the human soldiers. These soldiers communicate, 
 work together, use tactics like suppressive fire, and even throw grenades to flush you out when 
 you take cover. Intelligent and unrelenting, the human soldiers provide a challenge even for first 
 person shooter veterans. In terms of bugs and glitches, Half-Life is a pretty polished game with 
 few present. In fact, the only bug I found in my 30+ hours playing the game was one where headcrabs 
 could be left floating in the air if you destroyed a box that they were standing on. Overall, the 
 game remains challenging and rarely gets frustrating, although there are points like the fight 
 with the Gonarch that can be annoying. Something else worth noting is the lack of cut-scenes. This 
 coupled with the fact that you never see or hear Gordon Freeman while playing the game makes for 
 a very immersive experience.
  
  Graphics:
  The designs used for the creatures and the environments are simply amazing and everything has a 
 nice, creepy feel to it. The same however can not be said about the models used for the scientists, 
 they look fine but the same four are reused for every scientist in the entire game. As for polygonization 
 and pixelation the game is pretty average, some sharp polygons are present and the pixelation is 
 not exactly perfect, but nothing too serious though. In terms of color and lighting, everything 
 is done right and the well colored enemies and surrounding can become surprisingly eerie when you 
 enter poorly lit areas.
  
  Sound:
  It's a shame that the music only plays occasionally and for short periods of time because the tracks 
 included are excellent. Stereotypical of the first person shooter genre, Half-Life's soundtrack 
 consists of techno which is fine because it really fits into the action oriented parts of the game. The 
 sound effects and occasional ambient noise are all high quality without any exceptions. From the 
 chatter of the enemy soldiers to the conversations of the scientists that you encounter and the 
 G-Man's speech at the end, the people that you encounter are all voiced really well.
  
  Value:
  Without the expansions or anything else that is often included with Half-Life in various 
 compilations, Half-Life itself clocks in at about 15 hours for a single play through which is very 
 impressive for a single player first person shooter. After completing the game there's lots of 
 replay value as there are three difficulty modes available making Half-Life more than a worthwhile 
 purchase.
  
  Tilt:
  Even though there are no movie sequences and there are no narratives to easily reveal things to 
 you, the story of the Xen invasion of Earth is interesting and only helps to further your enjoyment 
 of the game. The only real problem with the story is that it ends on a bit of a cliff hanger with 
 the future of Gordon Freeman in question (and it took six years to get Half-Life 2) . Overall, Half-Life 
 is easily one of if not the best first person shooters ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Yes I only gave this game an 8.6, but that is only because I had to be fair with my score of different 
 attributes. The graphics now suck of course, as this game is 8 years old - so I had to put a score 
 of '3/10' for graphics, and the sound (which was also superb at the time) is now all crackly and 
 horrible compared to modern games. The solid voice acting made me take it up to a 6/10 though.
 
  
  It feels such a shame to have to rate the game as only 8.6, so I will say what score I WANT to 
 give it - 9.8... Its my second favourite game ever - and here's why:
  
  Half-Life simply set a new standard for all shooters. It had everything a game should ever need 
 - amazing graphics, exhilirating gameplay, immersive environments, big weapons to kill big aliens, 
 and a badass scientist with glasses and a cool orange suit.
  
  The basic premise of Half-Life is that you are this scientist (Gordon Freeman) and you arrive for 
 an ordinary day of work ('ordinary' is a gigantic futuristic science lab) only to end up unleashing 
 aliens upon earth during an experiment gone wrong, and screwing up mankind as we know it.
  So, armed with a crowbar and an awesome suit, you must fight off hordes of creatures and try to 
 fix what you have done.
  
  Its all very cliche, but its not the story of Half-Life thats so great... Its the way the story 
 is executed.
  When you first play Half-Life, you dont see a cutscene to introduce you to the game... The screen 
 just fades in and BAM! There you are, travelling on a tram through the Black Mesa Facility (the 
 science lab) to get to your destination and bugger up the world. In fact, you dont see any cutscene 
 throughout the whole game. The idea of this is to give you the impression that YOU ARE Gordon Freeman. 
 From the fade in at the beginning of the game, to the fade out at the end of the game, you see 
 everything from Gordon's perspective. And it works! I never played another game as immersive as 
 this until Half-Life 2 came out, which used the same method and worked even better (imo) .
  When you are travelling in this tram, you might just like to look around at stare at everything 
 going on - you can see futuristic objects being fixed, scientists scurrying around everywhere, 
 and huge robots clearing up toxic waste. You see a helicopter taking off outside, and watch as 
 a scientist gets locked out of a room by accident and bangs on the door.
  When you get out of the tram, you can explore a little bit before messing up the world if you so 
 desire. You can talk to scientists and security guards, some of which tell you to get going to 
 the test chamber for the experiment because your late.
  
  When you finally get into the test chamber, you are told by two optimistic scientists that there 
 have been some problems which havent been entirely fixed, but it should all be ok (yeah right) . 
 Then you go inside, press a few buttons, push this thing into this other thing, and finally screw 
 the world up.
  Everything starts exploding, aliens appear everywhere, the scientists get turned into gibs, and 
 you black out. After having a few freaky visions, you appear back at the facility, and embark on 
 the most exhilirating 10 - 12 hour journey you have had for a long time.
  
  I'd better shut up now, because im letting myself talk here, and if I wanted to I could tell you 
 every little thing that happens throughout the whole game, but i wont.
  
  Basically, if you are any kind of fan of First Person Shooters at all, you should get this game. 
 It was amazing and immersive when it came out, and its still amazing and immersive today, despite 
 rubbish graphics. Ive completed this game so many times I lost count (I got to 31 times when I 
 forgot to continue counting) , I know it all off by heart, and love it like a son (yes im very, 
 very sad) ;)
  
  Just get it, Ok? Promise? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamiyugi12345
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is totally brilliant. It is an fps with excellent atmosphere, gameplay, sound, storyline, 
 and in some cases, hilarity! Although it is 8 years old now, I still play it all the time. There 
 are so many secrets, that you can complete the game 10 times and not know them all!
  
  You play as Gordon Freeman, a low ranking scientist whose only job is to follow orders and help 
 carry out experiments. What you thought was going to be any old boring day turned out to be the 
 greatest disaster in history! Whilst carrying out the experiment, there is a major error (or a 
 resonance cascade in the game) . This opens the portal to the alien universe, "XEN". Your job is 
 to end this mess!
  
  The game features impressive ai. I was convinced that I could make an unsuspecting alien grunt 
 walk into the tripmine that I placed... but it refused to go anywhere near it, and backed away! 
 I was then forced to shoot it to proceed. A waste of ammo and a mine! The game has many cool weapons, 
 such as the shotgun and the mp5 smg. However, you also use some more unusual alien weapons too, 
 such as the hornet gun and small vicious bugs called snarks.
  
  One of half-life's impressive features is it's ability to play custom mods. This means you can 
 instantly search for multiplayer and single player missions that both valve and other dedicated 
 gamers have made. This means you will never get bored!
  
  Bottom line: Thanks valve, you've made a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Half Life was the beginning of a great series of games and the graphics where amazing at that time 
 with a high scare level that will have you truly sucked into it and you'll love every minute of 
 it. This has to do with an experiment gone wrong in a labratory and you are a scientist who was 
 part of the experiment and is trying to get out. This game comes together with the help of officers 
 and scientist who you will find around the labratory throughout the game and there are some really 
 frustrating hard parts and some really blood rushing fun parts that you are definitly going to 
 love.
  
  Really think about it you can't beat Half Life unless it's Resident Evil or Doom.
  
  I also 
 have to make mention to online play, there is nothing like playing online games with Valve &amp; 
 Steam. Mods everywhere you turn and people everywhere you look, the online play will make you an 
 addict.
  
  P. S. Buy this game if you don't have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CantTouchThis12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Half Life... What can I say about this game except that is is really wonderful. I was browsing 
 through my games and I found this unknown, kind of old game I never played. And I thought: Hmm, 
 I guess it's worth trying. And I was DEFINITELY right. This is a massive, hard shooting game. Even 
 on the easy difficulty, some people still find it extremely hard to finish. The storyline is quite 
 good, but it would help if it had cut-scenes with subtitles when scientists are saying important 
 things. But, of course, we're talking about 1998 here :D. You almost never get bored of this game, 
 just because it's going to take you a while to actually finish it. It takes you a very short time 
 to learn the basics of the game (that is why they have a kind of tutorial - Hazard Course for beginners) , 
 but it will take you a while to get good with your guns :P. I guess the graphics are pretty good, 
 considering when the game was made, and the sound quality is very satisfying. Like I said, you 
 will probably play this game for a LOONG time, unless you go the wrong way and use cheats. Whatever 
 you do, DON"T USE CHEATS IN THIS GAME!!! #1 - It will ruin most of the fun. #2 - You will never 
 get to know how challenging a horde of Alien Grunts or feel the pain of falling from a long way 
 up. I, myself, enjoyed this game very much. I think if I played it when it first came out I would 
 enjoy it even more. Overall, this is an excellent game, and I recommend it to any big fans of action 
 shooters, even though I guess most big shooters fans probably played it already ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewmarvosh
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was fantastic. Valve surely knows how to make a video game. The plot was very immersive. 
 For an action game it was very unique but good. It wasn't your typical action game. You didn't 
 have standard levels where you beath them and go on to the next one. It flowed all the way through. 
 Also the physics were out of this world. When it came out, I thought it had the best physics ever. 
 That made the game so much better. Also the guns were sweet. I liked the alien weapons. They kicked 
 ass. The enemies were just as sweet. The headcrab. Alien anyone. They reminded me so much of the 
 head huggers. I loved those bee grunt guys. They were pretty sweet. The marines were freakin awesome. 
 Back when Half Life first came out, the marines were the top of the line AI. I mean, the marines 
 were hard to kill, especially in numbers, cause they would get the hell out of there when you chucked 
 a grenade. I loved the marines in that they had very interesting conversations when spying on them. 
 The graphics were out of this world too. Everything else about the game was perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yozee306
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  half-life awwwwww a great classic i must have mspent one sleepless year of my life playing it first 
 off the single player and multiplayer are great esspecialy the numerous mods for multi play and 
 single the sound is just amazing for its time and its prety cool that just about any computer can 
 play and hold this game. and yes the grphics are a little outa date but steam enhances that so 
 it acctuly looks like a alright game with graphics anyways tthis is a superb game a must have if 
 you like fps's and it's only about 10$ now so even if your paycheck isn't in to next week it's 
 not real hard to get this one so all in all great game and a must have.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  I give credit where its due - Half Life was a revolutionary step forward in game presentation 
 and design. It was a seamless story that provided a new approach to gameplay, a huge (if linear 
 world) , some cutting edge graphics for its day and some very capable AI and programming. It changed 
 the FPS games genre, and set the bar for its successor to raise considerably.
  
  But why didnt I like it so much?
  
  I actually started playing Half-Life back in 1998 and 
 didnt get too far at all, before losing interest. Over six years later I played Half Life 2 and 
 enjoyed every minute of it. I decided in February 2006 to give the original another go, something 
 it probably deserved.
  
  You play Gordon Freeman (almost a household name now) , a scientist reporting in for work, until 
 a serious scientific mishap creates all kinds of chaos. From there, you are essentially running 
 for your life from a variety of weird and wonderful adversaries, and in the process you uncover 
 the secrets of the Black Mesa Laboratory and the lengths at which the 'Powers That Be' will go 
 to contain it. 
  
  Without a doubt, the opening scene on the train to Black Mesa was, and still is, amazing. The story 
 is told in a sequence, with information coming from friends and foes in conversation as you progress, 
 rather than load-screen briefings at the commencement of new levels.
  
  The graphics and the world (s) the game creates are excellent. It is a big game, no doubt about 
 that. The enemies are well defined, smart and challenging. The array of weapons was advanced for 
 its day, as was the health / vest power-up approach. The scientists and security guards could be 
 engaged in conversation of asked for assistance, which was another first.
  
  The puzzles to the gameplay were good when they worked but downright frustrating when they didnt. 
 But in the end, this was a shooter, first and foremost.
  
  There are some memorable gaming moments and some great scenes, but I also spent a lot of time wandering 
 around, wondering where Id missed the ventilation shaft (Id had enough of those about half way 
 through) , or where Id missed the switch to open a hatch two load screens back., or missed a turn 
 completely. The action is always in short sharp bursts  a couple of minutes of walking, climbing 
 then a 30 second firefight. Then climb into a shaft for a minute or so (with the obligatory head 
 crab) and then out somewhere else for another brief skirmish. And so on. Even when you did get 
 to Zen, it was more of the same  just in a different world and a couple of bosses. To me, the 
 game just didnt get on the roll-on it could have. 
  
  Half Life brought a lot of excellent ideas and new approaches to the table, and for that it deserves 
 the credit. I just expected more from the actual gameplay. Half-Life set the bar, rather than raised 
 it. It put into place a concept for its successor to develop on, and for other games to follow 
 and match.
  
  I paid for this game twice. I brought it originally for $AUD80 at the time of release and barely 
 played it, before handing it on to my brother as a present. I then picked up the Game of the Year 
 edition for $AUD40, which included Opposing Force and Blue Shift. I am yet to play these as well. 
 So, it has cost me a fair bit.
  
  Of course, without Half-Life there would be no Counter-Strike, and no Day of Defeat. The amount 
 of modifications for Half-Life is staggering. There would also be no Half-Life 2. It has a serious 
 legacy. I tip my hat to its contribution to gaming, but I  back then and now  was left wanting 
 more from the actual game itself
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwngasm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is the game that really started my interest in the FPS genre. Sure, I had played Doom 
 and Quake before, but those games had no story and just didn't pull me in. And then along came 
 Half-Life... with the most classic intro of them all, as you slowly make your way to work through 
 underground railsystems and the tension builds. Then you get yourself ready for work and you just 
 know something is about to happen, and when it does.. it just gets better. You'll fight as Gordon 
 through some of the most clever level designs ever, solve puzzles, meet interesting characters, 
 explore the MESA compund and even do battle against attack helicopters. The game slows down some 
 after you've reached "that other place" but up until then you've had such a wonderful time, you're 
 willing to forgive the small end-game flaws. Half-Life is simply one of the most genre-defining 
 and best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necro007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is good; from the weapons to the enemies to the areas it is just good for a First 
 Person Shooter (FPS) . 
  There were sometimes that I just felt like giving up but finishing this game was so worth it. 
 
  The graphics is okay, it really makes you feel as if you are there and trying to survive. 
  
  And what makes this game even better is you can pick it up for less than $10 Canadian.
  
 
  The sound is so WOOOOWWW its just perfect.
  
  If there was anything that the developers could do to improve this game it would be to increase 
 the graphics.
  
  Other then the graphics there is nothing bad about this game.
  
  If you are looking for an old school FPS then look no further, this game is a complete must have, 
 its just great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  Half-Life is a amazing, hardcore, and thrilling ride and one of the greatest FPS's ever. At the 
 time the AI was outstanding and it was the first FPS to finally bring some sense into the genre, 
 and even today many of the different aspects are as mind-boggling as ever. And it's cracking story-telling 
 should keep fans of great action movies engrossed to the very end.
  
  Half-Life's influence on the first-person genre was unmeasurable. The weapons staying on the floor 
 and not floating in mid-air was one thing but the weapons magazines were actually sensible rather 
 than silly. It's far from an arcadey action game like Unreal Tournament, the whole game was played 
 through the eyes of Gordon Freeman who was the silent hero of the story.
  
  Half-Life's story-telling has been renowned in the way it let's you uncover evidence as your kept 
 out of the heat of things as much as possible. The game put's you in one situation after another 
 and the scripting and direction is fantastic. The graphics and sound also make for a completly 
 engaging and belivable experience through and through. And the game is also quite hard but that 
 was part of the unique experience.
  
  Half-Life is simply one of the greatest FPS's of all time and one of the greatest PC games of all 
 time. If you have'nt played this you have'nt lived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sly_Hippo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is a brilliant example of a great FPS and it does not dissapoint in any way.
  A large variety of weapons are in this game from the crowbar to the rocket launcher they are all 
 useful in many situations even if some are just useful for saving the ammo on other weapons.
  
  It is quite a long game as well even with just the single player and is different from other 
 FPS games with things like the long jump and a gun that you can shoot at the floor to give you 
 a boost :) .
  
  Another great thing about thus game is STEAM and if you use your key code from HL you can play 
 many other games such as Counter: Strike and also many modded games such as Natural Selection and 
 Sven Co-op.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the game is the best FPS there is
  
  GOOD: The graphics are awesome and the gameplay is the best there is, then there is the story and 
 the challenges provided. The story is one of the first game stories that I have played. I love 
 that there is no stop in the game for cut sceans and stuff the flow of the game is really cool
 
  
  BAD: The game is a bit hard when closing to the end, there is no other bad at all.
  
  Overall I rate this the best FPS of all time and the best that there is when it comes to game of 
 that time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephant_6
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be by far the best PC game I have ever played. My computer doesnt work with Half-Life 
 2 so I'm still not sure if thats ones better but either way this is an amazing game and you just 
 have to buy it! I'm amazed at how detailed and advanced it is for a game that came out in 1998, the 
 graphics in the models are great even thow sometimes the backround graphics can be a bit.. you know... square. When 
 I first tried playing the first level unforseen consequences, it freaked the hell out of me when 
 that headcrap jumps from the ceiling and you dont even have a weapon to kill it with... Now I'm 
 used to that kind of stuff happening. The aliens especially the zombies ( who arent really aliens 
 but who cares) are nice and freaky. The alien Slaves make the most awsome noise that alomst sounds 
 like a distorted human moaning into a broken microphone. But the most fun enemies to battle are 
 the soldiers who come to eliminate you and youre coleeges to cover up the disaster. Theyre really 
 lifelikeand smart and even thow theyre hard, theyre the most fun to foight. One of my favorite parts 
 when I first played the game was the man in the suit whos always watching you. Now of course we 
 all know hes called the G-man and what he does, but for those of you who dont I wont spoil it any 
 further. I was amazed when I looked at gamespots 1998 game of the year award and saw that it went 
 to that game Grim Fandango! That game may be good but nothing beets Half-life man! My conclusion 
 is buy this game its still one of the best PC games to date and its totally awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I like this game as to be as well in my favorites list since its so absolutely fun! Again the variety 
 of monsters and weapons are awesome to play many times through! This game is pretty challenging 
 when your at this "Blastpit" level an dthis huge 3 headed snake or 3 tentacles comes up and bangs 
 its razor sharp nose on the floor and when it gets you its a 1 hit KO your dead! I love using the 
 this Guass Gun and Lazor Beam guns because they are just awesome! The graphics are excellent for 
 its GEN and the sounds are just great for the voices and sounds sound so real. The gameplay is breathtaking 
 as you have 3 main enemies (aliens, black ops, and marines) and it has you playing as a scientist 
 named Gordon Freeman out running for his life to escape the science facility. This game is something 
 that people will never get sick of playing it as it is with Opposing force are probably getting 
 the same scores from me. Another thing I like about the game is its so fun and there are many boss 
 fights! This game is strongly recemmended for those of the Half-life fans and love FPS but most 
 people probably beat it and owned but for those who arent fans of FPS I tell you that you will 
 find yourself getting hooked but Ive have always been a huge fan of FPS and thats why I wrote this 
 to advertise its greatness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Half Life have become now the Grand Father of FPS ( First Person Shooter) .
  Why? Simple, Half Life combine the movie style and game style to be a perfect game. The story is 
 that our hero is a lab geek work for the Goverment to do secret. One of their experiment have gone 
 awire bring the aliens to our world and the chaos rule. You most help your friends to resolve the 
 problem, What the Hell Happen!! To get the things worse the Gov send they best soldiers to take 
 down the threat. The Soldier aren't the bad guys, they just follow order which is to kill everyone 
 and you to. 
  
  This is the cool part, The enemy have great AI, you reload - they reload, solve puzzles and save 
 the world but first save your rear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Lets see..... its the best FPS ever.... ya I'd say that is the definition of a "good start". Basically 
 what Half Life does is what every other game in the industry could only dream of doing, create 
 a game so deep and memorable while still being an FPS. The game is this way simply because every 
 moment is so cinematic and entertaining. The graphics for its time are one word-amazing and impeccable 
 sound design fill the hallowed halls of Half-Life with such a terrific ambience that few games 
 of its generation or this generation have truly matched, and the best part is this game is no survival 
 horror my friends, this is an FPS, but it manages to incorporate every great thing about action 
 gaming in the past 20 years into one Magical box. The control is perfectly spot on in the aiming 
 department, but jumping at times can be somewhat difficult to achieve the way the game wants you 
 to, which brings up the next topic (in a way) , linearity is noticable in this game and the level 
 design can make it hard to find your linear path at times, but it is hardly an excuse to ignore 
 the best FPS in gaming history yet, and when its 20 bucks for Half Life and all its expansions 
 there really is no excuse unless your computer is like 20 years old, because nearly any computer 
 today can run this masterpiece, making the game even more fantastic and one of the best PC games 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhenthorn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is one of the greatest PC games you'll ever play. I try to beat it at least every couple 
 of months or so. The graphics were outstanding back then and not to shabby by todays standards. 
 The story is a very well thought out and complex setting; it never fails to intrigue you around 
 every corner of the game. All the little details will amaze you, not to mention the cunning AI 
 and brilliant level design will make it hard to turn off the game, it feels as though there is 
 no good stopping point in the game, making you compelled to finish it all the way through.
  
  It inspires the imagination of sci-fi lovers and non alike, and will always be a favorite game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  OK, so the title may already explain what I'm going to say. But hear me out: HL is not only one 
 of the best PC FPS to date, but it may be the best GAME to date. HL brings the FPS genre to a new 
 level and sets to bar for all FPSs to follow. But not only that, it has effected how people in 
 the gaming industry go about creating their games. HL created an awesome enviroment, great gameplay, 
 and intrigueing story, awesome graphics (at the time of course) and a game that is still replayed 
 today.
  
  What makes this game so great? Because there has never been a game like it. You get immersed, you 
 fall into it and you can't seem to get out. Play it, 'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuppiesOnAcid88
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  Half Life is one of those games that will excite you in ways that was once only possible by the 
 oppsite sex.... or in some cases the same. I'm going to start off with the neggative... the intro 
 part where you start off in the subway car is too long..... thats about it. The way the game feeds 
 you the plot through the people insted through cut sceens is realy cool.... it just seemes more 
 life like. The combat in the game will make you massively happy and the enimies are awsome to the 
 highest degree. anyone could go on about this game but I'm to lazy so I'll just say that half life 
 is amazing over and over again. Half Life is awsome Half Life is awsome Half Life is awsome Half 
 Life is awsome Half Life is awsome Half Life is awsome Half Life is awsome Half Life is awsome 
 Half Life is awsome....... *deep breath* Half Life is awsome... yep that about sums it up.... go 
 get this..... NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordanbarrantes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all i want to say that i dont believe that this game is the best First person shooter 
 of all time like most say. But without a doubt it is on of the best of all time and it led the 
 path which the superior fps followed. First of all the games gameplay is great. The action is non-step 
 which in most games gets annoying but in this, you can never get enough. The Ai is extremely fun 
 and i can never get enough of fighting the humans. The games Ai is even better than lots of todays 
 games. The graphics for the time are just amazing. Even now when i crank the graphics to maximum 
 the first thing i though was wow, these graphics are amazing for the time. Of course nowadays they 
 dont compare to lets say fear or far cry but back then they were so good would u piss your pants. 
 The sound is this game is just amazing. I still have the sound of the crowbar smashing against 
 walls stuck in my head. And from the loud blasts of the shotgun and machine gun i was quite impressed. 
 The game is extremely long, Its about a 15 hour game i would say, but the relentless action makes 
 it seem a lot longer. This game without a doubt is one of the best fps of all time, and without 
 question is the most revoulationary. Beware of the extreme difficult though.
  
  Final thoughts: Definetly in the top 10 greatest fps of all time, You must buy this game and considering 
 that its like 10 bucks now, theres no reason not to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 7, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I just started playing FPS's about 9 months ago and Half-Life 2 was my first foray into the genre. 
 Being exceptionally satisfied by the game I decided to go back in time to it's roots. After playing 
 Half Life for 10 minutes I understand why it not only won game of the year but SEVERAL other awards 
 as well. Half Life is the type of game that leaves the experienced gamer in awe because of what 
 it incorporates into the FPS class. The game is FAR superior from gameplay to sound and graphics 
 to almost all games from this time period, in which most games left a lot to be desired. Considering 
 this game can now be picked up for 10 bucks, it Is a must have for the PC... (the consoles just 
 don't do it justice) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerzrulez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game is really AMAZING!!!!!!!!!! The gameplay ROCKS because you get to shoot a lot of people 
 and monsters. The difficulty is just right for me.
  The graphics are amazing because the detailed characters and enviornments. The sound is amazing 
 because of the voice acting and the music and the weapon and explosion sounds. The value is great 
 too because the game is pretty long and theres online for it too. The online is great but theres 
 not a lot of people goin on. But still I recommend you get this game NOW because it it one on the 
 best fps  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  And its true. This game has to have one of the best storylines of any first person shooter ever. 
 Its immersive, and intensive from start to finish. And the great part for those of you that have 
 NOT played it yet is that you wont have to wait like 10 long years for part 2 like I did!!!!
  
  Your a scientist, an experiment goes wrong. BOOM, your an adventurer, you get some awsome weaons 
 (crossbow WHAT!) you kill some baddies. Follow a guy in a business suit around a warzone but CAN 
 NEVER get close. Kill some crazy **** in tight suits. Go to a different dimension. Beat some bad 
 asses. SPLAT, you have to wait from like 1996 to 2005 in order to play part 2! 
  
  Ok you played this game and you are happy with what i told you now go read my review for part TWO 
 and be confident that my reviews lead you to the sweetest tasting water you ever tasted, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch_Mix
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  
  
  In 1998 Valve released Half Life taking the computer gaming world by storm. After winning Game 
 of the Year from over 50 publications and spawning several expansion packs, Half Life is still 
 considered to be one of the best first person shooters ever made on the PC.
  
  The game opens with you, the innocent scientist Gordon Freeman, on your way to work at the Black 
 Mesa research institute. Upon arriving you are instructed to put on your hazard suit (more on that 
 later) and get down to some test lab where a group of scientists are waiting for you. What happens 
 next is utter terror and confusion, one moment youre performing your daily work activities, the 
 next moment an explosion occurs and terrifying monsters begin to appear from a portal to an alternate 
 dimension. Once you regain consciousness the game is on and it's up to you to find out what happened 
 to the black mesa research complex. The story in Half Life is remarkable, offering up new and interesting 
 twists around every corner which is suprising since a majority of first person shooters today feature 
 the bland save the world scenario.
  
  Half Life controls like your typical first person shooter, you use the w, s, a, d keys for movement 
 and you also get a nifty flashlight attachment for those dark corridors. The weaponry is Half Life 
 is suprisingly varied, youll start off with a crowbar which you can use to bludgeon both the enemies 
 and the environment. By the end of the game youll be using rocket launchers, crossbows, and even 
 some assorted alien weapons.
  An important gameplay element in Half Life is the hazard suit which protects you from both physical 
 and chemical damage. As you take injury from the bizarre aliens of Half Life your hazard suits 
 power levels will drop forcing you to find recharge stations positioned strategically throughout 
 the games many environments. There are however some drawbacks to Half Lifes gameplay, for one 
 youll often have to solve some tricky jumping puzzles which become frustrating since youll be 
 playing Half Life entirely in the first person. Another small shortcoming is the fact that Half 
 Life requires you to navigate through some tricky swimming puzzles which can become disorienting.
 
  
  Enemy intelligence plays a large role in Half Life, since the game came out in 1998 you would probably 
 expect to find the enemy AI to be sub-par but surprisingly the many different foes you encounter 
 are highly intelligent. Marines run around the environment trying to flank you while crouching 
 for cover behind rocks as they reload their weapons. Alien swarms offer up a relenting assault 
 of different attacks never allowing you any breathing room in the confines of the Black Mesa. Its 
 all entertaining and fun at the same time.
  
  An interesting aspect of Half Life is the fact that there are no levels in the game, everytime 
 you reach a new part of the Black Mesa research institute the game will pause and the words loading 
 will appear for a few short seconds and the game will continue. Another detail to point out is 
 the absence of cut scenes in the game. Its told entirely through the eyes of you Gordon Freeman 
 which adds to the already immerse feel of the game.
  
  As you can tell Half Life isnt your typical first person shooter, it contains a lot of scary moments 
 in the game. One minute you can be walking down a corridor minding your own business and unexpectedly 
 a security guard will be flung through the wall by an alien grunt. These hair raising moments would 
 be worthless without having the superb audio to back it up. As climatic as Half Lifes sound is 
 it does have some minor flaws which keep it from perfection. For one youll often meet up with 
 numerous security guards in Half Life which all contain the exact same look, voice, and appearance. 
 Also, some of the scientist voice acting is repetitive but in the end these are only minor quibbles 
 once you finally play this game.
  
  The only real drawback of Half Life is the heavily scripted gameplay, once you finish the game 
 youll have little incentive to beat it a second time since youll be able to effectively remember 
 what happened at certain moments of the game. Half Life is a reasonably long game as far first 
 person shooters go. I clocked in at fourteen hours on the default difficulty setting. Half Life 
 also contains numerous mods, such as the wildly popular Counter Strike and Team Fortress Classic 
 add-ons which are still played even today.
  
  When it comes down to it Half Life is still a very impressive game. The graphics, gameplay, and 
 sound all add up to a very unique and fun experience that shouldnt be missed.
  
  Pros:
  
  + Excellent visuals and sound
  + A non stop action ride from start to finish
  + Crowbar!
 
  + Man is it scary
  
  Cons:
  
  - Jumping puzzles
  - Man is it scary
  - Too scripted
  
  Perplexing:
  
  ? Unless youve got a super computer you probably wont 
 be playing Half Life 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Half Life is possibly the best First-Person Shooter ever made. This is the game that started it 
 all. Every single FPS to date owes its excistance to Half Life. In Half Life you play was Gordon 
 Freeman. A scientist who ends up doing a lot of combat. Your enemy is a base of alien type creatures, 
 ranging from headcrabs (small little buggers) to HUGE monsters. This game has great graphics, even 
 for today, and has the best gameplay and storyline of any FPS to date. This game is amazing. It 
 started PC Gaming, It Started FPS... if you're one of the 5 ppl that dont have it... go get it... 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  This is the best game in 1998. It won a lot of awards in that year. This game is still popular 
 until today. Gamers just can't get enough of its multyplayer mode. Even me I still play this game 
 with my friends. It is a lot of fun. Even the mods that it has was great like Team Fortress. I 
 never get bored of this game the gameplay and the graphic are completely awesome. Last year the 
 Half Life 2 came out and it got every gamers attention. Every people around the world played this 
 game. Still Half Life is the best. I hope that this franchise will keep on making this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Half life brought a whole new idea, feeling and look to the first person shooting
  genre. Made in 1997, it looks amazing for it's years. The story is very cloudy, and not so easy 
 to pick up, but in the end it all makes sense. 
  
  You play as Gordon Freeman, a "black-mesa" facility scientist. Throughout the beginning you exchange 
 your lab coat for an HEV suit, standing for Hazardous Enviroment... something. After putting on 
 your suit, you are the lucky one to be chosen to experiment with some nuclear reactor, and a new 
 formula. Of course something goes wrong and the whole fascility blows up, and you are left with 
 your trusty crowbar to fight off the alien enemies.
  
  Later on in the game, you pick up other weapons such as the casual pistol, the SMG, and others. 
 The ememies get tougher as you go on, and the challenges you have to face, greatly increase in 
 quantity and difficulty.
  
  The game isn't just all shooting and running, there is also a very effective puzzle component included. 
 Solving puzzles could have never been funner in first person view.
  
  Half life 1 is much longer than Half life 2, maybe because they were too lazy to make more levels. 
 Half life 2 took me a day to finished, compared to the week that Half life 1 took.
  
  Overall, great game, nothing else to say, it "awoke" the game developers, and curved the first 
 person shooters into a whole new direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  Damn it I dont wanna buy this game just hearing from my friends words, and plus I didnt like it 
 at first look. but I was missing out the biggame in my collection if I would ignore it. Thanks 
 god that I didn't.... This game bring to my game experience unbeliveble taste and addiction and 
 excellence. I did enjoyed this game. Fantastic and brilliant storyline which is not just bunch 
 of missions.. also need to improvise and think about what are you going to do to pass different 
 types of obstructions . Alien invasion coz of your falt? Nuh this is not that gae this is more 
 than that... you will see by the time. 
  
  Enemies is totaly blowing you expectations about game AI... you will face different type of monsters 
 from other world, and also you will be on target of your own human civilisation.... so watch out 
 for anything that moves around you. The best mission line ever, in this game will give you the 
 best of game experience. you want miss out any detail in each mission and will face with various 
 type of problems which you will need to solve with high profesionalism and with help of your colegues 
 in some points.
  So dont kill evry one around you:) ) )
  
  Enjoy your Half-Life!!! That life which totaly is in your hands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life set a new standard for excellence in game play. While not as fun as TRIBES or QUAKE II, 
 it was in its own right, one of the best games ever made. I still to this day enjoy loading it 
 up and playing it. The expansion packs and the multiplayer aspect were just down right awsome additions 
 to the game. Albeit the cheating on line became an epidemic, regular patches tried to address the 
 issue, and in my opinion, kept the game alive far longer than most games would have surived.
  
  HL is and will always be one of those games that just came out of no where and leveled the 
 competition. From its awsome graphics and game play of the time, to counter strike and expansion 
 packs, HL set the bar even higher. 
  
  Gordon is the man... and there is nothing more thrilling than to play with a team of exceptional 
 players in counter strike. As far as addiction goes, Half Life ranks right up there with sex, rock 
 n roll, and cocane. It was the crack of its day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  When i picked up Half-Life 2 i picked up the collectors which came with Half-Life 1 so i tried 
 it after HL2 (not a good start) and even though the game was out of date and every time my friends 
 see my play the game they make fun of it by saying the blood looks like ketchup or something stupid 
 like that. For what this game is it's great, The over all story of this game is fun i like the 
 guns and everything but could their be diversity in the people their were only like two 3 different 
 looking scientists and all the gaurds looked the same BUT i understand the game came out a long 
 time ago.
  
  The sound if good, and so is the AI everything in this game it great i'm not going to go harsh 
 on this game.
  
  The value is that (like i say for every FPS game) this has to be on your desk some where this game 
 may not be great but it shows that you like your FPS's and from my collection it stands out. this 
 game may not deserve a ten but it does not deserve anything else below a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is what a game should be. Half-Life is extremely long and is challenging at times. The 
 graphics are pretty outdated but gameplay is just great. The story is also interesting. I've been 
 playing Half-Life for a year and still I cannot beat it. This is a classic game and anyone who wants 
 their money to be spent without the fear of beating it in a week or less should consider Half-Life. 
 Everyone will enjoy this shooter and best of all anyone who has a recently new computer does not 
 have to worry about it not working. Anyone who has not played Half-Life have been missing one of 
 the greatest video games ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda? Junk. Chrono Trigger? First in a long line of losers. Final Fantasy 7? Don't make 
 me cry! Halo? Get real. All of these games do not even amount to a tenth of Half-Life's greatness 
 and they never will. 10000 sequels or 1 billion downloadable expansions later Half-Life will still 
 be a better game.
  
  Why? Because Half-Life did more for its genre, dynamic gaming and just gaming in general than any 
 and all of those aforementioned games COMBINED. This is truly the only game worth considering for 
 the title of "Greatest Game of All Time", regardless of how partisan or steeped in PC-hate you 
 are!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  At it's time Half-Life was a marvel of graphical power. It was the best looking game on all platforms 
 and among all future releases that one knew of at the end of 1998.
  
  From it's vast, expansive levels dripping with detail to it's amazing monster designs, animations 
 and special effects Half-Life had it all as far as graphics were concerned. How many people can 
 forget the memorable introduction sequence with its ensemble display of the whole Black Mesa compound, 
 the myriad of things happening at any one time in the compound, the robots carrying crates from 
 left to right or the glowing pools of acid?
  
  Character design faired just as well in Half-Life, with fully lip-synched characters ranging from 
 the most minor to the most important of them. Needless to say, they all animate like a high quality 
 Disney production. Framerate, resolution and technical excellence were all part of the Half-Life 
 package and were done in such a way that they would actually WORK on the minimum system requirements. 
 Just try to remember what was the last game that did that and, maybe then, you'll understand what 
 Half-Life's graphics were like.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Dynamic sound - in Half-Life, when the music plays at key moments of the game to speed up the action, 
 get the blood pumping and increase the "feeling" 10-fold.
  
  This was what Half-Life gave gamers in terms of sound: Music in games that doesnt play throughout 
 the level but only at key points to indicate the urgency of the situation. It would honestly take 
 me 2 pages to just list all the games that used this technique, but among the more famous we can 
 observe Halo and Doom 3. Whats more, the music in Half-Life was so well composed and was so proper 
 for the action on screen that I honestly keep wondering where the guys at Valve came up with it.
 
  
  The sound effects packed an equally satisfying punch. From the echoes of footsteps on metal floors, 
 to the hungry gasping of the Devourer as it's pulling the player up towards it's mouth to take 
 a good chuck out of his or her head off, to the scrambling of the marines and the repeated radio 
 chatter like "He's here!", "Look for cover." and "****", Half-Life not only did it all with style 
 and enough professionalism to rival any Hollywood production but it was also one of the first games 
 to feature full 3D sound-support. Needless to say how many followed suit, yet again!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  In order for me to list all the improvements that Half-Life brought to games 
 and how greatly it influenced or refined gaming through it's gameplay I'd need the equivalent of 
 a 10-page precis. So I'm gonna stick to the basics with this one: There has been no OTHER game 
 ever (!!!) to feature so many revolutionary techniques within the course of its game time.
  
  Let's start with the story. For the uninitiated, Half-Life was the first real FPS to feature 
 a real story and *gasp* plot twists and characters that you DIDN'T have to shoot if you didn't 
 want to! The story in Half-Life goes something like this: You are a scientist employed by a mega-corporation 
 called Black Mesa. It deals with experiments on interstellar communication and teleportation. One 
 day things go terribly wrong and one of the experiments opens a rift to an alien world which causes 
 a massive alien invasion of the laboratory/base. From here on, your purpose is to try to help your 
 fellow scientists and survive the alien onslaught... however, things get worse when you find out 
 that the government believes the words "help" and "exterminate all living souls" to be synonymous.
 
  
  I can't even begin to tell you what this meant for FPS games in 1998. First off, you weren't saving 
 the world, second you actually had a character with a NAME and a real LIFE, third you were faced 
 with situations that had never before been seen in an FPS, fourth- you see where this is going! 
 The story in Half-Life was every conspiracy theorists wet dream and the fact that it's basic core 
 elements (evil alien race, 3rd party appears later on) have been repeated in countless FPS games 
 since it shows what an impact it had on the gaming world.
  
  The characters that appeared in Half-Life were fairly varied and despite the fact that they weren't 
 the most fleshed personages you've ever seen in a game they made Half-Life feel so much more alive 
 than the other hundreds of Doom or Quake clones out on the market in 1998. For example, even your 
 HEV suit became a character in Half-Life as it had an awesome way of warning you of injuries suffered 
 or of telling you that the green goop in front of your feet isn't Laffy Taffy but actually, highly 
 corrosive acid. There were also moronic scientists and hopeless police guards and they all did 
 what they could to hide from the disaster or escape. One character however was always there, always 
 observant never fearing the consequences and always untouchable by Gordon: The mysterious G-man. 
 The G-man became synonymous to "government clean-up man" as soon as the game came to its satisfying 
 end and pretty much gave birth to an Internet frenzy, as well as one of the most popular characters 
 ever in a PC game.
  
  But grasu, some of you might angrily direct at me, Strife had a story and characters that you WEREN'T 
 suppose to kill. What the hell makes it a less revolutionary game than Half-Life? Well, dear reader, 
 that's simple: Strife had gameplay that was equivalent to that thing you just stepped into while 
 Half-Life had a great story and great gameplay in one little package. And gameplay we shall discuss! 
 P. S. Not to mention that in Strife you had no choice if you wanted to kill the characters or not 
 since if you tried, youd get butchered.
  
  Let's make some things clear before we start discussing gameplay: If you weren't around when Half-Life 
 was released or your best example of an FPS is Goldeneye you won't EVER even begin to understand 
 what Half-Life did for gamers. In 1998 things in the FPS market were stale and boring, we had hundreds 
 of testosterone infused killing machines mutilating each other with BFGs and rocket launchers in 
 the world of PCs. Things were boring, repetitive and totally over done. No one ever killed Quake 
 2 despite the fact that there were so many games that had "The TRUE Quake-killer on the box" that 
 it made you sick. Then came Half-Life and Quake became garbage.
  
  Half-Life's gameplay revolves around a concept that was unheard of in games at that time: Freedom. 
 You had multiple ways of tackling the same problem. You could go back and forth between sections 
 of the same level, and there was NO level to being with. It was all one big adventure strung together 
 by (very) short and negligible load times. These "sections" of what can be best described as a 
 huge jigsaw puzzle ranged so greatly in theme and size that the first time I played this game I 
 was moving on only to see what other insane level had the guys at Valve thought of next. In addition 
 to the amazing level design, the variety of scenery and the freedom Half-Life gave you, it was 
 the first game to truly use "scripting" in FPSes to great effect. Unlike in Quake 2, where scripting 
 was just another way for the game to fill a room with bad guys and force you to terminate them 
 all in order to move on, scripting in Half-Life sometimes actually KILLED you if you weren't thinking 
 on your feet. Dams got blown up, bridges fell, earthquakes shook the foundations of buildings, 
 and you had to run, kill and interact with characters in this myriad of exhilarating circumstances. 
 And despite the slightly more lackluster feel of the Xen-world levels even they weren't as boring 
 as 90% of the levels in Halo or most FPSes that come out now-a-days... and yes, I'm counting Half-Life 
 2 as well.
  
  Really though, it was the shooting game that made Half-Life into the gaming giant it is now. The 
 pace of this game was so frantic and so exhilarating, while your opponents so sharp and perceptive 
 that even the beginning sections of the game when you were forced to conserve ammunition and had 
 just a mere crowbar made for some of the most chaotic and unforgettable moments in gaming history. 
 Endless firefights with monsters that were either so strong that they took whole minutes to take 
 down or constant covering or retreating behind walls or barricades to refill shields were never 
 part of Half-Life. The well balanced weapons made every fight count and every bullet could carry 
 death with it, just like in real life. This combined with the great pace of the levels themselves 
 which had you running or gunning made Half-Lifes pace unbeatable in 1998 and unmatched in 2005!
 
  Suffice to say that the weapons in this game put most other FPSes to shame. Even now-a-days the 
 rocket launcher is considered to be the best weapon in some 90% of FPSes when, in 1998, Half-Life 
 was pissing this concept away. Weapons ranged from guns, to crowbars, to crossbows, to laser guns, 
 and, yes, even rocket launchers. Nothing was, however, overpowered in Half-Life. Nothing had TOO 
 much ammo. Everything need to be reloaded! Oh and did I mention "secondary fire"? Yeah you could 
 now fire weapons in TWO ways, sometime either forcing you to take a longer time to charge up for 
 each shot, while sometimes giving you a faster firing rate at the expense of fire power. Match 
 that for innovation Halo!
  
  Another often forgotten aspect of Half-Life is the system of pickups that it used and the ways 
 in which you recharged your health and armor. For the most part, gone were the medpacks and battery 
 packs (as these were only seldom found) and a new system called HEV stations that refilled your 
 suit's power or your health was used in place. Half-Life also had a myriad of puzzles, including 
 everything from button mashing, to orchestrating aerial attacks in order to defeat stronger foes. 
 These puzzles, even if some werent so successful (like some of the jumping puzzles) made Half-Life 
 stand out as not just a simple run-and-gun shooter but a game that took some brains to beat. Hell, 
 even the idea of a flashlight was introduced by Half-Life! And, yes, that was revolutionary at 
 its time!
  
  The enemies Gordon fought in Half-Life were unique, to say the least. The fusion of worldly foes 
 such as marines with alien foes such as the dreaded headcrabs or the devourers was, and for that 
 matter still is, a defining trait of Half-Life games. I remember that when this game came out people 
 were actually wondering how they were supposed to kill the first headcrabs they bumped into (since 
 they had no weapons) . That is innovation. That is what Half-Life is about, and the AI is equally 
 as intelligent and capable of handling the situations it faces just like any regular human. For 
 the first time in an FPS we saw enemies that ran for cover, that regrouped or that actually outmaneuvered 
 US! Long gone were the days of Quake when everyone came charging towards you in a zigzag pattern, 
 guns-a-blazing and just waiting to be taken out by a massive BFG charge. Now there were enemies 
 you COULDN'T kill with your own weapons, you had to evade them, trick them or find cover until 
 they passed. One classic Half-Life moment had the player facing 3 huge claw-like-things that reacted 
 to sound. Your job was to go down a few ladders, across a metal railing that reacted to EVERY footstep 
 WHILE avoiding the claw-creatures attacks. Frankly, I've never seen this duplicated in any other 
 FPS since Half-Life and I've played all of the memorable ones in the last 10 years.
  
  All of that being said, I probably left out many other innovations that Half-Life brought to the 
 genre and to gaming. In order for me to find out about all the innovations however I'd have to 
 play this game at least 3-4 more times while paying great attention to detail as Half-Life strings 
 everything so seamlessly together that it's hard to even pick out what this game does best for 
 gamers. Furthermore, Half-Life had no real bugs or game wrecking unbalances which made single player, 
 as well as multiplayer a blast and, suffice to say that through the 15 or 20 hours that this game 
 might take an average gamer to complete, he or she'll have more orgasms than during all of the 
 sexual escapades in his or her life!
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  Out of the orgasm-induced coma yet? Good, brace yourself, multiplayer Half-Life is probably even 
 better than the game itself. Hey!? What the... get the hell off the floor!!
  
  Half-Life's multiplayer is easily the most oft-ignored part of this godly piece of gaming. Half-Life's 
 multiplayer is not Counter-Strike! It's a sleek brand of shooting, strategy, amazing level design, 
 balanced weapons and a whole slew of innovations that put most of the so called "great games" from 
 other platforms and the PC to shame.
  
  Where can one start with the multiplayer in this game? First off, let's talk players: Half-Life 
 supported 32 players at one time. That's all you have to know in terms of technical innovation 
 as not other game before it even ATTEMPTED to accomplish this feat, the only one that even got 
 close was Tribes and even it was way off the target. 32-players and seamless Gamespy integration 
 meant one thing: A need for great multiplayer battlefields on which players could kill each other 
 in peace. (You should already know where this is going by now...) Half-Life had multiplayer levels 
 that, to this day, are some of the best in the industry.
  
  Half-Lifes multiplayer levels ranged from small, one chamber death arenas populated with several 
 bunkers some kick ass weapons, and a lot of ammunition to true BATTLEFIELDS in the vein of the 
 two Compound maps, which feature nuclear bomb installations that can wipe out everyone who cant 
 find hiding inside a windowless building or a nuclear bunker. Other maps that might spring up some 
 good memories are Office, an office battleground with computers, staircases and all the works for 
 a great multiplayer match. Or the many other maps which involved everything from huge underwater 
 fights to big-time all out war that I've long forgotten by name.
  
  Of course this all would be for naught if Half-Life's single player weapons would be unbalanced 
 or if the game would simply not be fun but, this is not the case. The fun I had with this game 
 in LANs just simply cannot be compared to anything before or after it and I've been gaming for 
 a longer period of time than most of the people on this site have been on EARTH! How's this for 
 a typical Half-Life match? You blow someone up with the rocket launcher just to start frantically 
 running 10 seconds later because while you were reloading your RPG, a crowbar-psycho assaulted 
 you; finally, you manage to find a shotgun and you blast the moron to smithereens, now you're on 
 your way to a HEV station to refill your health (INNOVATION NOTE: Half-Life was the first game 
 that didn't feature health packs during multiplayer matches) and to get some armor just to find 
 out that both of the stations are empty. Wounded and with 3 bullets in your shotgun you prepare 
 to face the battle going on downstairs, where 20 players are killing each other mercilessly and 
 a guy called "ipwnu" is pissing on everyone from a distance. Just another day, and just another 
 amazing game of Half-Life.
  
  Strategy also became an integral part of the Half-Life experience only a few days after the game 
 was released as people argued if long range weapons like the pistol were better for starters than 
 the more powerful crowbar or if the laser-guided missile of the RPG was more of an actual recipe 
 for defeat than it should be. The player had to take these decision in split seconds on the battlefield 
 and apply them as he or she saw fit and this, along with everything else, made Half-Life's vanilla 
 multiplayer much better than most people care to know about.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  As you can clearly see, I love this game. Half-Life will forever take a soft spot in my heart as 
 the best game of all time and some of the most fun moments of my life as I fragged with buddies 
 in damp, dark and sweaty internet cafes for hours without much care for money or time wasted.
 
  
  Half-Life was, and will be, a part of PC gaming history that won't ever come to pass again. It 
 was a time when the PC was king and when games could truly innovate so much that they could truly 
 change the face of gaming. Gamers enjoy this game; for another is never gonna appear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizz624
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  i didn't know what to expect when i bought this, but to date it hasn't let me down. with so many 
 flash in the pants games out today where you lose interest real fast, this old standby keeps your 
 interest from start to finish. with stylish graphics and excellent sound effects it will chill 
 you and thrill you. from fighting your own kind to fighting far away aliens, you will be kept busy 
 moving fast and ducking faster, never knowing what lurking in the next air vent or around the next 
 corner. Half-Life is just an exciting game to play, once you beat it, you'll want to start over 
 to do it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  There were legendary FPS titles before Half Life. Games like Doom, Wolfenstein and Duke Nukem 3D 
 ruled the day, but then this bad boy came along.
  
  Half Life was new, it didnt use pixels, but rather it used polygons, the story had voices and 
 a semblance of a cohesive plot, with scripted events that really made it feel like an adventure. 
 There may have been games before this with similar features, but none that quite made the total 
 package like this game did.
  
  Starting with a very long opening set of scenes with credits and a subway ride into the facility 
 showing unbeknownst to the player at the time, all the insanity you will be traversing after things 
 get turned upside down.
  
  Like many games the premise started off simple, an experiment goes terribly wrong and the facility 
 gets sacked by some creepy unknown force, that like to latch onto scientists heads and pop out 
 at you from vents. You as a thick eye glassed scientists need to go a special kind of crazy and 
 slowly gain combat experience and arms while traversing your way out of this facility gone mad.
 
  
  The FPS gameplay was tighter than any before, with the collision and physics being top notch, the 
 weapons being wicked fun, and a genuine level of interactivity with the levels.
  
  The music was a bit subdued, but that doesnt mean the sound didnt have an effect in this game, 
 quite the contrary, the beasts that you fought and the marines made the atmosphere in this game. 
 If I was being highly critical Id score the music lower than a 10, but as this game revolutionized 
 shooters and I consider it a "10" game, I will be liberal with this on the excuse that the brilliant 
 sound effects for it time take priority over the rather absent music track.
  
  The game ended on a bit of a cliffhanger but thats why we waited 7 odd years for a sequel!
  
 
  Of course no review would be complete without talking about the online element that kept this game 
 in the big time for so long up until its sequel finally came out.
  
  First it was Half Life multiplayer which felt like it was almost limitlessly fun, and it was free 
 and easy to do on the WON network. Of course even more importantly than that was the mod scene. 
 Although it already existed previously Half Life presented a very stable and streamlined interface 
 to distribute it, spawning Counterstrike, one of the most popular mods of al time and even further 
 extending the necessity of Half Life.
  
  It's almost hard to write this review and not just copy and paste it for Half Life 2, more Counterstrike 
 and more Half Life, with tighter everything. Maybe I will write an obligatory review but the brilliance 
 is like the game itself, this review can be all encompassing of what the game has accomplished. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicks85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I spent some time playing the sinlge player campaign and it is very nicely done. The story kind 
 of sucked me in and made me want to finish the game. Graphics are good and so are the sounds. There 
 is not a huge learning curve either, I mean how hard is it to blast the crap out of stuff? The 
 real heart of this game though in my opinion is the multiplayer. There is nothing more fun than 
 blowing the crap out of other people from all over the world. This is where I have spent most of 
 my time. I recommend this game mainly for the multiplayer and all the mods available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abima
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Half Life doesn't need any more proponents, nor any more rave reviews. If you haven't heard that 
 it's awesome, my review won't make much difference. But it's mildly amusing to sound off about 
 something one loves, so there you go. Half Life is fun because the levels are fun. They provide 
 an astonishing variety of settings and kinds of action, and somehow make one forget they're linear. 
 In fact, I know everyone loves Half Life 2, but for me the first one takes the prize. Level design 
 all the way. Anyone who wants to know how to do it, play Half Life, the first one. The creatures 
 make funny noises, the human enemies truly menacing ones. They scare the sh*t out of me every time 
 I hear them communicating on their walkie talkies. And I'm not suggesting this, but on the subject 
 of games being adapted for the silver screen, this one really could be and to decent effect. That's 
 because the story, though lacking anything resembling a twist, is gripping. You're on the verge 
 of apocalypse, the blending of two worlds that can come to no good.
  Excuse the lack of cohesion of this review, please. Too many great things to say... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainpoursaway
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Half-Life is a game like no other in many aspects. In the game you play as a scientist whos experiment 
 went extremly wrong. And as your stuck underground in a huge facility, it is up to you to get to 
 the top and help people along the way since your the guy with the guns. 
  
  Instead if incorperating levels into the game, the game takes more of a theme for the sequence 
 you will play in small transitions as you go along because you just keep going throughout the game 
 without changing locations. This make the game one of a kind. 
  
  As for gameplay, the game doesnt get boring if your willing to work with what you got. At one point 
 in the game you do have to jump and crouch in order to get through a place which I had never heard 
 of jumping and crouching. 
  
  The graphics in this game arent the greatest but what do you expect from a game that came out a 
 while ago? The graphics are similar to doom.
  I gave the sound a 6 because after a while of headcrabs jumping at you, the noise gets annoying 
 but thats just my opinion. 
  
  And as for value, If you find this game for about 3-5$ I would definitly buy it but anything higher 
 then that you may just want to leave behind.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  I got this game in 1999 and the graphics were just unbelievable when I first saw half-life. Actually 
 pretty much everything amazed me in this game back in 1999. I sounds still sound great when I play 
 the game. The gameplay is just plain fun. The story is good and decent. But the battles you go 
 in this game were insane. I mean back then, games like quake, unreal were great but they can't 
 compete against half-life's great gameplay.
  
  In half-life you are a scientist named Gordon Freeman that worked in Black Mesa. When you were 
 in the test chamber trying to create teleportaion, the test chamber went nuts and went chaos. Then 
 the aliens start teleporting to Black Mesa and destroying everything and you have to stop them. 
 But also not only your trying to stop the aliens , you also have to fight the governments military 
 guards because they are killing the scientist to secure the situation and take Black Mesa. You 
 also have to kill them because they are trying to kill you as well.
  
  Half-life is just a great game no matter what. It is treasured for pc for all-time. Best shooter 
 and one of the best pc games I played all-time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest games of its time that started a new revolution for PC games everywhere. Half-Life 
 definitly one of the greatest games of its time. It had graphics never before seen in any game 
 before its time. Not only does it have awsome gameplay and a fun, exciting, and stretegic game 
 play it was also a huge step for game makers everywhere. 
  The game is very exciting and innovative. It involves much though in order to complete the game. 
 This game is not for those with very little time, because it takes forever and you will get addicted 
 to it and will want to continue and try to find out wat will happen next. 
  Not only are the graphics good but the enemies will interact with your movements, something that 
 had never before been seen in games! The game is also not easy, I found the game pretty hard and 
 involved much strategy and concentration. For a game made in its time I think it still stands as 
 a pretty high game today!
  
  Original Half-Life. The game that started a flurry of mods, mission packs, and a million deathmatches. 
 What a great game. When comparing it to some of the new games it still has better ideas in story 
 development then the rest. The way things happen around you and affect where you go in the game 
 is great. I think I like when a game is the story and not the cutscene between missions. When you 
 are playing the cutscene it makes it so much better. To date I have probably played this game through 
 about 5 times.
  
  Sound: Befor Halo which had amazing sound music all packed into one this game didn't have one liners 
 or music which kicked it but for its time it was very perfect.
  
  Difficulty: Normal but some tough spots. No stratagy guided needed. 
  
  Value: With its many 
 expansion packs all like there own game which all revolve around orignal Half-Life, the endless 
 MP wich is just revolutionary period its a game to be played with for years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  HAlf Life definitly one of the greatest games of its time. It had graphics never before seen in 
 any game before its time. Not only does it have awsome gameplay and a fun, exciting, and stretegic 
 game play it was also a huge step for game makers everywhere. 
  The game is very exciting and innovative. It involves much though in order to complete the game. 
 This game is not for those with very little time, because it takes forever and you will get addicted 
 to it and will want to continue and try to find out wat will happen next. 
  Not only are the graphics good but the enemies will interact with your movements, something that 
 had never before been seen in games! The game is also not easy, I found the game pretty hard and 
 involved much strategy and concentration. For a game made in its time I think it still stands as 
 a pretty high game today!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  When I first started the game, I thought it was very cool being able to sit back and watch the 
 game sort of present itself while waiting on the train thing. I like how they had the different 
 scientist and the security making notes on how you were suppose to get to the 'test chamber' which 
 really puts the game in motion. 
  
  During the game they had bunch of scripted events that scared the crap out of you or made you laugh 
 your ass off. The soldier's AI was great because they retreated when they were getting a pounding 
 from, or how they teamed up to kill you. Also it's always fun to sneak up around a corner or in 
 a vent, and listen on them talk about different things. 
  
  The weapons in the game were great. I good mixture of high explosive weapons, light pistols, alien 
 weapons which was refreshing, and etc... The ending IMO, was actually pretty good. I can't wait 
 for the sequel!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumpy500
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favorite of all time. For '98, the graphics are amazing, and it still runs on all 
 of my old PCs. The story is great, and not just laid out there for you, you have to dig a little 
 to find out what's going on. The linear, non-stop way of playing is unique, and makes the game 
 that much more immersive. The G-man popping up in various places in the background also gives the 
 game a kind of mystery feel to it, like there's something going on that no one's telling you. It's 
 a solid play, and I recommend it to absolutely everyone with a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiccanPoet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  The First Person Shooter genre was changed forever the day that half-life was released from Valve. 
 For the first time ever you were actually part of the story, it happend in real time around you 
 while you fought on against the enemy. While the game does borrow heavily from the scare tatics 
 used in Doom, it manages to put an intelligent AI and a very capable alien force against Gordon 
 to try and defeat you. The game gets exceedingly hard once you reach the end at the xen levels, 
 but overall it is an amazing experience that has deffinatly lasted the test of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Half Life was my very first FPS. It was the second Mature game I ever bought, the first being Thief. 
 Half Life is the game that got me hooked on PC gaming and first person shooters. No game before 
 had ever blended gameplay, story, and value so well. The story behind Half Life is surprisingly 
 good for a video game. You are Gordan Freeman, an MIT graduate working as a scientist at the Black 
 Mesa Research Facility, a huge underground complex. You take part in a teleportation experiment 
 that goes terribly wrong. Aliens are teleported to Black Mesa, and all hell breaks loose. Gordon 
 must now escape from Black Mesa using his wits, big guns, and of course his crowbar. Half Life 
 has some terrific moments and a lot of variation in the gameplay which keeps you guessing about 
 what's going to happen next. The boss fights are really fun and quite challenging at times. Even 
 for 1998, Half Life's graphics weren't so great. They weren't bad, but they weren't spectacular 
 either. The audio is pretty good. All of the voice acting is great and the guns sound pretty good. 
 Some sound effects, however, sound a little strange. Since the game is so long and the gameplay 
 is so variable, it is unlikely that you will get bored. Since the game is so long, and not too 
 linear, it is also fun to go back and play through it again. Half Life was an excellent game that 
 re-invented first person shooting. It is one of the best games on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  So what does make a game... a good game exactly? Well for starter.. its needs a good storyline, its 
 need good graphics, it needs great sound and music, there should be excellent features, and it 
 must have a a huge impact on the gaming world. And what does Half-life have to do with all of this.... HALF-LIFE 
 has all of these!! but maybe even more!!!!
  
  It maybe a little old to be talking about a game that came out out almost 10 years ago or less ( 
 as a close estimate) but i think it was time to talk about this game.... Ive played all kind of 
 games on many different systems..
  but no PC game has never made me soo interested... until i played Sierra brand new Action game Half-life. 
 I played half-life when it was selling for$69.99.. but now there sellin it for almost $9... it was 
 about 1996 as i recall... but forget about my pathetic life.. ahahah back to the game
  
  The whole story of Half-Life put you in the shoes of the 4-eyed
  young lab assistant Gordon Freeman. 
 When performing a risky yer rare experiment for the goverment.. something goes terribly wrong... i 
 mean really wrong!! Aliens begin to pop up... scientist are being killed or turned into zombie.. and 
 the Death Squads want to destroy the evidence... including you!!
  
  The game offer an amazing storyline.. almost worthy enough to be made into a movie... the sound and 
 music is excellent.. and as for the graphic.. i must dur to the fact it was the graphic... shown in 
 the mid 90's its stil is impressive.. the game offers great action... loads and loads of cool weapon.. ranging 
 from basic crowbars, shotguns, and grenade.. to bazooka and.... a Hornet gun!? ( youll see!!) Theres 
 lots gameplay in this game.. and is actually quite a long and hard game to finish..
  
  So overall Half-life has made a huge impact in my gaming perspective... it the best PC Game ive 
 ever played in my life... and youll love it too.!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVANdaGUY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  No doubt, hands down, my favorite computer game. i honestly do not really like computer games but 
 a few years ago my uncle recommended half life and i gave it a wack and loved it. controls are 
 a little tricky at first but thats normal for me cause i'm used to a remote and i'm to poor to 
 get one for my computer. was also my first on-line game play game i ever tried and it was a blast. 
 as long as your not against one of those guys that play all the time and are 50 times better then 
 you. but i really liked the story line. and i liked how they did it from different angles in each 
 game. i thought that was very brilliant. as long as you have a half way decent computer then this 
 game is loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Half-life is a game that spawned a new generation of shooting games. The first-person genre received 
 a boost because of the story development, the graphics, the manipulation of environments, and more.
 
  
  The game itself was one that contained a number of the previously discussed elements. You travel 
 through a lot of dark areas that are occupied by parasites and creatures that are ready to tear 
 you apart. The best thing though was the multiplayer. This game created a huge surge of online 
 play of first person shooters. Unreal Tournament had a similar effect but not to the same extent.
 
  
  What was nice otherwise was the innovation of mods. Day of Defeat was a great mod that set you 
 in the middle of WWII. It required a quick download to play it online. And then there was Counterstrike 
 that was a phenomenon in itself. I played that one for hours my freshmen year of college.
  
  While Half-life II had its problems with delays and release, the original was one that blew 
 people out of the water and into their computer chairs to sit for hours and stare at the screen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentNick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Doom, Shadow Warrior, Duke Nukem, Sin... The FPS genre experienced a number of titles prior to 
 the release of Half-Life in 1998, but none did to the genre what Half-Life did: Redefined it. Written 
 by Sci-Fi writer Marc Laidlaw (The 37th Mandala, Dad's Nuke) , this shooter took the gaming experience 
 beyond killing enemies or solving possibles, but also told a story that was not only ingenious, 
 but also believably conceived (apart from the whole alien thing) . Combining environment and ambience, 
 action and suspense, disbelievably shocking moments and almost epic scenes, Half-Life cleared the 
 way for a new trend in FPS gaming, and that trend would be a new focus on immersion of character 
 on the part of the developer. Valve software, then a fledgeling company, crafted a classic with 
 the intention of making an entrance into the world of professional development, but instead made 
 them the focus of it. Now, even after eight years have passed, the High-Definition pack and a decent 
 OpenGL will ensure you a very, very memorable experience that you're not likely to forget. From 
 the Anomalous Materials laboratories of The Black Mesa Research Facility to the bright and open 
 deserts of the New Mexico outlands, Half-Life will offer a multitude of enemies and environments 
 before ending with one of the greatest endings of all time. The open-ended stlye, though sometimes 
 linearity, of the gameplay can at times leave you a bit lost as to where you're meant to go next 
 (and there is no objectives list) , the game is incredible and is a must-have for any serious gamer. 
 Go and get it, seriously. You should be making space already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life doesn't only change the way FPS are played , it redefines them
  it changed what i expect from games that are released , it introduces an innovation to the genre 
 , and i think this is not only a first person shooter , it is an adventure that should be played 
 by everyone , it introduces the adventure fact to the first person shooter genre , making it hell 
 of an experience to play.
  
  Movielike storyline , teamworking enemies , it has everything , this game definitely has earned 
 the title of "the godfather of First Person Shooters" .
  
  This is the closest thing to being the star in an action movie , filled with nonstop action , and 
 packed with a cool arsenal of weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Fast, furious, and fun, fun, fun. What really amazed me about Half-Life was the game's unforgiving 
 pace as I made my way through the Black Mesa complex, dodging soldiers all the way. When the Half-Life 
 hype machine started kicking into gear after E3, particularly when the "Day One" demo began circulating 
 around the Internet, there was a lot of talk about the game's more story-oriented nature, and even 
 talk of chapter-based gameplay. True, Half-Life is based upon a pretty cool science fiction story, 
 but I think there needs to be some further clarification. In many ways, particularly at the beginning 
 of the game, Half-Life is much more like an excellent interactive novel where the player gets to 
 guide the main character through the pre-scripted -- but yet undiscovered -- adventure; every turn 
 of a darkened corner is the flip of a page, and letting go of the mouse is as tough as closing 
 that book before bedtime when you know the best is yet to come. Still, comparing the game to a 
 novel may lead some to believe that the action is slow, even plodding, and that is simply not the 
 case. To be quite honest, the beginning of Half-Life (basically everything leading up to the climax 
 of the Day One demo) marks the game's slowest point, and can really be considered the prologue 
 of what's to come. After that, the narrative feel is still there, but like a great book the story 
 is expressed not through words but through the action... and believe me, this game's got tons of 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YakumoWarZ
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Original Half-Life. The game that started a flurry of mods, mission packs, and a million deathmatches. 
 What a great game. When comparing it to some of the new games it still has better ideas in story 
 development then the rest. The way things happen around you and affect where you go in the game 
 is great. I think I like when a game is the story and not the cutscene between missions. When you 
 are playing the cutscene it makes it so much better. To date I have probably played this game through 
 about 5 times.
  
  Difficulty: Normal but some tough spots. No stratagy guided needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duh_to_the_avo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I love this game, the setting is right, graphics are nothing short of mind blowing (if 
 you remember that its a game from freaking 1998) the voice acting, while slightly repetitive at 
 times is often brilliant and the story is unparalleled within the realm of gaming. Yet, as I go 
 through the public reviews of this game, I am saddened by the fact that some people are using it 
 as a vehicle to promote doom 3 which apparently has, "a better storyline and graphics". Well duh 
 it has better graphics, the game has seven freaking years on it! and while I loved the original 
 doom, its story was hardly revolutionary the first time around, why should it be the second? Another 
 thing, one reviewer who shall remain unnamed, forgot in his haste to attack Gordon Freeman forgot 
 how to spell his name... yeah, freemon, definitely. It sickens me when someone spends time writing 
 something only to neglect the spell check as to quicken their words toward the internet. Yes, I 
 will concede that some events in half life were scripted, however, I have played through the game 
 many, many times (in fact my dad still plays it) and I have never had the same experience twice. 
 
  
  And for the person who had difficulty following the story? Join the millions of your peers including 
 myself, while I realize that the whole point of not revealing the complete story behind the actions 
 taken in half life was to create an air of mystery and suspense, you knew about as much as Gordon 
 Freeman knew, excepting his superior knowledge in the field of nuclear physics. And for the man 
 who said that possibly seven years ago this storyline would cut it but not now? Hello!? Every freaking 
 first person shooter that has been released since the dawn on man has been about either aliens 
 or zombies wreaking havoc and a lone gunman takes down the lot of them to save the earth! Thats 
 what this genre is based on! Shooting things! Evil things! Things that want to know what colours 
 (I'm Canadian, so I can spell it that way) your insides are! But now I'm tired of preaching to 
 the senseless heard out there, so I will leave you with some choice advice, if you're going to 
 bash a game, give the reasoning behind your explanation, dont just spout senseless crap about 
 graphics then vs graphics now, or the fact that you cant handle a fairly intricate story without 
 relieving yourself in your drawers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow. The start of a great series and the father of many great games to come after it. What can 
 I say about Half-Life that hasn't already been said? This is so much better than most of the other 
 FPS games out there because of its story. This is really the first FPS to have an excellent story 
 line. To back up the story is excellent gameplay. Controls are smooth as you expect with the good 
 ol keyboard and mouse and you can configure them anyway you want. An array of guns and weapons 
 to choose from keeps this game fresh and not repatative. Also, the AI in this game is amazing and 
 some levels are hard to finish and require you to think. Although the graphics aren't anywhere 
 near what people would call the "par" everything about this game is so good that it doesn't really 
 matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre37
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The Best part: The gameplay
  The Worst Part: The chapter called Interloper (So hard)
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  The gameplay alone changed the FPS genre forever. The story is superb, with 
 lots of twists and mysteries, the gun fights are fast paced and intense even by today's standards. 
 The puzzles aren't tedious or forced, like how they feel in some games. The AI is remarkable, i 
 actually think there thinking and plotting against me (bastards!) . The 3 wayed style of combat 
 (You vs. Combine vs. Aliens) is, suprizingly, flawless. When your playing as Gordon Freeman, he 
 is just as clueless as u, he doesn't knows whats in store either, which makes this game the most 
 immersive to ever be released. There are a number of guns, that differ in size and variety but, 
 they are all well crafted and life like.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  By today's standard, these graphics aren't good. But, back in '98, they were god. With the exception 
 of some minor framerate issues, the graphics are phenominal for the time period.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  The music sets the mood perfectly in every single section of this game. Different 
 objects have different sound effects, all the aliens and people sound a little different, and say 
 different things everytime. The scores are unmatched and sound crystal clear.
  
  Value - 9/10
  You will definatly want to play through the 20 hour story more then once because 
 of how great it plays. Not to mention it comes with Counter Strike: Source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajfreestyler87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  well frankly speaking once i finishrd de game off ijust culdnt stop. well for starters 4 a game 
 of its time it certainly had outsatanding grafix. the storyline is just brilliant. it all begins 
 wit a freak accident at de anomalous materials lab and we r sumhw de cause of it. ots den a ride 
 of ur life as u battle aliens ,us troops as u make ur way out. u also get a chance 2 portal out 
 2 de aliens homeplanet 2 kill de boss. de atmosphere, de ambience de lighting of de environments 
 spcially in those dark offices where u find de ocassional dead scientist or an alien chewing up 
 ur colleague. there r plenty of scary moments. all make up dis spooky yet somehow believable world. it 
 draws u rite into de heat of de action, u feel urself 2 b a part of dis raging inferno in black 
 mesa. it all comes down 2 de little details like the tonr of ur fellow scientists, the eerie sounds 
 of de machines in de background... each person u interact with almost feels human. u feel like playing 
 de game again & again 2 get a feelof de situation and de story. well kudos 2 de author & valve for 
 giving us such an xperience. hey guys since HL2s been released.......... wat r u waitin 4??? go get 
 ur hands on it nw!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusicalGizmo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is insane, period. I have the HL: Source version which imports some of the goodness of 
 Valve's new engine which powered HL2. I cannot believe how they got it so right with this game: 
 a perfect mix of all-out action, edge-of-your-seat fear and suspense, and puzzle-solving cunning. 
 And I find the graphics and sound to be more than adequate, even as I write this in 2006. Some 
 of the creepiest moments is crawling through an air duct with your dim flashlight, hearing the 
 aluminum bend and pop beneath you, and praying that there isn't some god-awful creature right around 
 the corner. There is absolutely no reason why you shouldn't own this game at the price of $10 - 
 maybe less if you get it in a bundle. It's cheap, runs on any recent computer, and will have you 
 captivated for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Deep in the bowels of the Black Mesa Federal Research Facility, a decommissioned missile base, 
 a top secret project is underway. A portal has been opened to another dimension, and human science 
 has never seen anything like the world on the other side. 
  You are Gordon Freeman, a young research associate in the Anomalous Materials Laboratory. You have 
 limited security clearance and no real idea of just how dangerous your job has become, until the 
 morning you are sent alone into the Test Chamber to analyze of a strange crystalline specimen. 
 A routine analysis, they tell you. Until something goes wrong. 
  Is it sabotage? An accident? Or is it something you did? All you hear is screaming; all you see 
 is spacetime shattering. The next thing you know, the entire Black Mesa Facility is a nightmare 
 zone, with sirens wailing and scientists fleeing in terror from the things their co-workers have 
 become. 
  Hordes of creatures from the far side of the portal are pouring through rifts in the local fabric 
 of reality. Monsters are everywhere. Madness rules. You head for the surface, but the usual routes 
 are impassable-closed off by the disaster, infested with headcrabs and houndeyes and increasingly 
 larger and hungrier creatures. 
  As Gordon Freeman, you must enlist the help of traumatized scientists and trigger-happy security 
 guards to get through high-security zones, sneaking and fighting your way through ruined missile 
 silos and Cold War cafeterias, through darkened airducts and subterranean railways. When you finally 
 come in sight of the surface, you realize that the inhuman monsters aren't your only enemies-for 
 the government has sent in ruthless troops and stealthy assassins. Their orders seem to be that 
 when it comes to the Black Mesa, nothing gets out alive... and especially not you. 
  When even your own species turns against you, maybe you'll be glad to see another portal beckoning. 
 But then again, on Earth you have allies; while on the far side of the portal, nothing at all is 
 familiar except the sense of danger. 
  Save the Earth? Well, maybe. But that's a pretty low priority compared to saving your own skin.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashFirer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  "Half-Life". Gamers and FPS lovers from all around the world know what this name means. It can 
 be for the fact that it is required to play Counter-Strike and Team Fortress Classic, it can be 
 for the fact that its sequel was a tremendous success, or it can be for the fact that anyone who 
 played it when it was released was left without any breath. Half-Life has stupendous graphics, 
 a good but not great storyline, action from the beginning to the ending, innovative controls, and 
 a level of interaction with the main character-Gordon Freeman-that the world never witnessed before.
 
  
  You are a scientist at the Black Mesa facility that is involved in a dangerous scientific project. 
 A scientific project that goes horribly wrong, as aliens begin walking through the facility, people 
 start getting killed, and a military squad enters the place with the intention of covering it all 
 up by killing anything that moves-including you.
  
  The gameplay of the game is innovative: you can jump, duck, "use", turn on your flashlight and 
 so on. The only problem is that things like positioning yourself through a tight place can be pretty 
 hard, you'll find yourself floating in the air sometimes when trying to climb a ladder.
  Also, the ladder is another problem: if you rush too much on climbing it or getting down, you'll 
 fall and lose health. It takes some time climbing down a ladder, and that's not good in the middle 
 of an enemy horde.
  
  The graphics are breath-taking: No more pixeled-like backgrounds or enemies. Everything now is 
 pure 3D textures and polygons, that are very well-done, I should say.
  
  Enemy A. I. is a strong point on this game: the enemies throw grenades, ambush you, follow you, 
 and such. There's times you'll be hearing footsteps below you, and you'll hear the enemy radio 
 say:
  "Heard something, sir. He must be here."
  "Quiet down, squad."
  Simply amazing.
  
  The sound on this game is something that took Valve a lot of time: Not only are the songs that 
 you hear in the game sometimes great, the shots and screams sound different in each place. A shot 
 from your pistol in a small room sounds far different from a shot in the open. And it even gets 
 better: you can open the CD as an audio CD to hear lots of nice songs.
  
  There are loading times on the game, but they are miraculously brief and do not happen in the middle 
 of a shootout.
  
  To sum it all up, this is one of the best games you'll ever play, and I would not be surprised 
 if it is never forgotten by any gamer who played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Half-Life in the year 2001 I was instantly hooked, four years latter Im still 
 playing it. What I like about Half-Life is the graphics during the time was superior compared to 
 other games during the time. It also was a challenge to beat; it took me about 30-40 hours to beat 
 for the first time. Plus I had to reload levels over and over again during some tough parts. Unlike 
 other shooters which if you die you have to go to menu and reload manually, but in Half-Life if 
 you die it automatically reload the last save point. Unlike some FPS that I had played in the past 
 the levels varied and new enemies come out of nowhere. The only things I dont like about Half-Life 
 is Xen. It changed from shooting in hallways to platform jumping which gets annoying after a while. 
 Yet still with a vast amount of weapons and plenty of monsters to shoot at as well as tons of puzzles 
 you can never hate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  To start things off, this game has some of the best graphics for its time, and some of the best 
 gameplay I have seen in any genre of games. The multiplayer is superb, with players duking it out 
 against friends or just random people across the world. The addition of the microphone allows players 
 to communicate to one another distinctly. 
  When you join the game, you start with a certain amount of cash which you can use to buy any number 
 of weapons, grenades, armor, etc; and for each kill you gain more cash, and a win for that round 
 will earn you some cash too. This additional cash can add up to buy numerous other better weapons 
 and ammo.
  The peak of this game is its replayability. With players getting pissed or over-spastic with their 
 playing, they just can't seem to stop. CS keeps the player addicted and can be played for a number 
 of hours... which might inevitably consumes ones life.
  A must have for any person that enjoys a rush, strategy, or just plain fun with friends. CS revolutionizes 
 the FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddyissa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  ok before i go on to review this game can i first say what idiots thoe people are who rate this 
 game as 5.0 and 5.3 are????!!?? ahem.. dudes.. thats a big mistake.. cos your complains are graphics 
 and sounds.. duuuhhhh 7 YEARS AGO MAN.. THIS GAME CAME OUT 7 F. R. I. G. G. I. N. YEARS AGO!!! are you 
 people retarded or something.. its development started like quite before that.. making it like 
 9 or 10 years old.. aaarrggh... but why am i gettin so mad and so hot under the collar here?? cos 
 people who write thse bad reviews are like "the fps games out today are a whole lot better.. spend 
 your money on those" ummm... i can say this much.. you guys take the fps games today and the whole 
 concept for granted.. you do NOT appreciate its history.. what game o you think revolutionized 
 the fps genre????!??? halo?? half life 2??? no it was half life 1!!! 
  fine now that i knoced that into place i'll tell you guys this much.. and i'll make it short and 
 sweet. half life is a gaming experience which is unique unto itself (cept for half life 2 of course) 
 with a retty fantastic storyline.. though you have to be observant and cant be lazy yourself.. 
 half life does not believe in giving the story out.. far from it.. you got to talk to people.. 
 WATCH VERY CAREFULLY.. thats the way you can pick up things that piece the story out together.. 
 true enough the story does leave quite a few unanswered questions.. however despite this the game 
 gives you that truly triumphant feeling when you finish it and is definitely a must play must see 
 thing. with plenty of quirky moments which will shock you.. puzzles which require some ingenius 
 thinking.. boss fights which have puzzles.. pretty good AI and coupled with tenser than surgery 
 moments this game is fuly worth your money
  atleast to rent and learn your history about what revolutionized fps and turning it into some sort 
 fo story driven game rather than mindless shootin of spawning enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Half-life, the old look to it is attracting, i DONT like you SUPER HD GRAPHIX SHOOTER! I am one 
 of the "idiots" that like to still play some old games.
  
  graphics: not too high-def and not too pixely, just the way i like them
  
  sound: the sound 
 is really high quality, for its time, a large variety of sounds fromweapon firing to zombie moaning 
 to voices of you scientists and securoty guards dieing
  
  gameplay: i love the innovative half-cutscenes that DONT pause your game, this is STILL the most 
 weapons i have ever seen in a FPS, its a HUGE shame that they had to take out over half these enemies 
 in hl2. What were they thinking? the things you can do with the console are INCREDIBLE! whats "modding" 
 in most games you can "edit" in the console! i made instant kill pistol, blow up ANYTHING satchel 
 charge, and an RPG capable of blowing the 1st xen boss to peices!
  
  value: you can get GOTY edition and all the expansions and big multiplayer addons for 20$ 
  
 
  This ends my review. and, i play TFC mostly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hekke
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Of all the games I've played in my life none of them compare to the masterpiece that is Half-Life. 
 Released almost 8 years ago it still the greatest game ever made, yeah the graphics are dated, 
 but hell who cares!!!!! it's Half-Life, and what makes Half-Life great it's not the graphics, what 
 makes it great it's the awesome story, superb gameplay, great AI (that change the way AI has been 
 done ever since) , and Gordon Freeman. Yeah, the normal guy who fights he's way tru inter-dimensional 
 aliens and the marines who tried to kill him. Well that's only the beginning of this great game, 
 i'm gonna every aspect of it:
  
  Story:
  
  A lot have been said 'bout Half-Life's story, but again it's great, but the cool thing about it 
 it's that it's presented without cut-scenes, you unfold the story by talking to scientists, security 
 guards, aliens (just kidding, they'll rip your legs off) and for 1998 that was revolutionary.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Dated for today's standards, but for '98 they were nice, not the best ones 
 but nice. They really make the Quake engine their own.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Superb gameplay makes Hal-Life great. Ok, there some puzzles that are kind of dumb but w/e, you 
 get pass that with the alien/soldier/sometimes scientists killing. The weapons come in different 
 shapes and sizes from the handy sniper like crossbow to the normal handgun, from the awesome rocket 
 launcher to the little dumb aliens that you trow. 
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound sets the mood right and the sounds effect are great for the time.
  
  Replay Value:
 
  
  In 8 years I've pass Half-Life countless times, and I still want to play it again. I purchased 
 HL2 a couple of days ago and the thing i did first when i got it was pass Half-Life again to get 
 the mood right. ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernaine
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Debuting in 1998 Half-Life changed the way we think about first person shooters. With it's varied 
 levels, challenging gameplay, and advanced story line Half-Life will go down as one of the best 
 if not the best first person shooter of all time. 
  
  Half-Life starts with you, Gordan Freeman, going to work. You start the game on a train riding 
 through Black Mesa, the research facility where you work. You then go to get suited up in your 
 HEV suit. This will protect you from the hazardous materials that you deal with in your everyday 
 job. But, then when working on an experiment it all goes horribly wrong. A portal is opened letting 
 all kinds of alien creatures in and you are left with no weapons and only your HEV suit to protect 
 you. It's now your job to undo the mess you made. The game will take place mainly in Black Mesa, 
 but you will visit a land that isn't quite as familiar as any other location in the game. 
  
  Half-Life tells it's tale with two great elements. For starters you never leave your hud and 
 are always in first Person. This really helps you to feel as though you are Gordan Freeman. The 
 other great thing is that all of the characters have something to say and act like they are talking 
 to you. They look at you and the syncing between dialogue and the moving mouths is extremely well 
 done.
  
  One thing that Half-Life seems to do like no other is always keep the action intense. It never 
 seems like theres a dull moment and theres always something trying to kill you. The action is also 
 helped by the great A. I. which can give any gamer a tough time. Soldiers will take cover, and throw 
 grenades if you seem to be behind cover. And all of the creatures are tough as nails. 
  
  The game may not have had the best graphics at the time, but the incredible art style of everything 
 in the game more than makes up for that. All of the alien creatures are a marvel to behold, and 
 the levels look fantastic themselves. Even if they are corridors Valve found a way to keep them 
 interesting. 
  
  There is also a variety of weapons. The game has many of your standard first person shooter weapons 
 such as your pistol, machine gun, and rocket launcher. But each has its own twist. The game also 
 features some of the most unique weapons I've ever seen. Most of these come from the alien foes 
 and are expected to be a little crazy.
  
  The game features great firefights and are some of the best in gaming. Whether battling a squad 
 of soldiers or a huge alien creature it's always a great time. Valve decided to mix things up with 
 something that is rarely seen in a first person shooter. They decided to add platforming elements 
 to the game. Although this may sound bad it is incredibly well done. They often use these elements 
 to create puzzles. Such as jumping from conveyor belt to conveyor belt to escape.
  
  Half-Life also features many great mods. Some of the greatest ones are Counter Strike, Day of Defeat, 
 and many others. These greatly help to increase the value of the game and may mean you'll be playing 
 this game for a very long time.
  
  The only problem that I had with the game is that the jumping good have been a bit tighter. I often 
 found myself having to reload a save because I missed a jump and lost half my health or flat out 
 dying.
  
  In the end though Half-Life is the greatest game I have ever played. The action in the game is 
 second to none. The story is as good as any sci-fi novel or movie. Half-Life will always be remembered 
 and has influenced every first person shooter after it. Not only do fans of the genre need to play 
 it, but every gamer needs to play it as well. Half-Life is the closest thing to perfection I've 
 ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfan06
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  What can you say about Half Life? Maybe that it is one fo the best first person shooters ever on 
 the PC; it combines action and story telling unlike any game previous; it has enemy A. I. that actually 
 seems realistic and will work as a team to defeat the player and maybe the fact that it got 50 
 Game of the Year awards the year of its release. If there are any doubts about how great this game 
 is, all you need to do is play through the first couple of chapters and you will be hooked. And 
 to all those that give this a game a negative review, you obviously have no appreciation for shooters 
 so don't waste everyone's time by writing a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  There's really nothing more I can say without sounding like a broken record. Is Half-Life as good 
 it could have been? No, it's better. If you want an incredible 3D experience that will cause you 
 to lose sleep, meals, PTA meetings, and romantic rendezvous, this is the game. And while some might 
 argue that Half-Life deserves a less-than-perfect score, I disagree -- the good in this game far 
 outweighs the bad, and I'm convinced we've just witnessed a defining moment in the evolution of 
 the first-person action genre. Hey, you couldn't crouch in Quake, but that didn't stop it from 
 becoming the most popular multiplayer game in the history of gaming. Make no mistake -- the release 
 of Half-Life was a gaming event, as significant as the release of Quake 2 or Warcraft 2 before 
 it. If there's not a spot reserved for this baby in the Gaming Hall of Fame, it's time we hang 
 up our mice and rejoin the (gasp!) real world. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARK_HUNT
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  
  Ok, first of all, im reviewing this game considering my first impressions i had when i first got 
 my hands on it back in 1999. 
  I think that most (if not all) of the modern FPS shouldnt exist if it wasnt for this amazing 
 game.
  
  Second of all, do not get in the confusion of the usual "HALO would destroy HL any day" and comments 
 of that sort.
  Halo is a great game by its own, period. Of course is more sophisticated than HL and better in 
 every aspects, like most of the current gen FPS. Its more than obvious.
  
  Conclusion: Do not compare games from different generations, its not a fair comparison.
  
 
  Into the review: 
  
  The game starts like a real FIRST PERSON game. People talk to you, make some cheese comments when 
 you approach them or when you take weird actions (like hitting the alarm at the beginning of the 
 game, etc) . All of this "useless" stuff, adds in my opinion a lot to the genre, it feels a little 
 more realistic, something most of the shooters of that time (and many of the current gen) seems 
 to be forgotten. FPS is not shoot-and-die, leave that for a Deathmatch ala Quake 3. This is one 
 of the most interesting things that caught my attention in Half-Life and gave me (believe it or 
 not) the chills.
  
  I wont go into further detail about the events that happen in the game, im not going to spoil 
 your game. Im just going to tell you that if you had never played this great game, get it ASAP. 
 More FPS should be like this one without a doubt, even the second part didnt do enough justice. 
 Valve was really inspired with the first Half Life.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The controls in HL feels perfect. The new and improved way of selecting your weapons and the alternative 
 versions of them is a nice touch. 
  The single player of the game is perfect with a lot of in-game cinematic scenes and memorable enemies. 
 Those mercenaries were incredibly cool with great AI (for the time) . 
  
  Graphics
  
  Using a heavily modified version of the Quake engine (Quake 2) . The game looks great and fresh. 
 Still, many games of its time, have better graphics and much better design in different areas, 
 like Unreal wide scenaries or Requiem Avenging Angel and its beautiful cities. 
  HL world on the other side, is very polished and the best part of the game is without a doubt the 
 very high amount of polygons that the enemies have, they move in a realistic way and look very 
 scary. Definitely top notch in the graphics department, considering how old this game is.
  
  Sound
  
  The second best part in the game along with the single player is the sound. HL 
 sound effects are extraordinary well done. Weapons effects sound very realistic and the NPCS are 
 funny, a lil cheese, but not annoying. 
  Play the game with a decent HIFI or a nice hometheater, the game sound is astonishing. 
  
  
 Music 
  
  The music is a different story however, its just a bunch of audio tracks thrown together.
  There 
 are some nice tracks but they do not feel alright with the game. Why? Because in the same year 
 , Unreal offered a much better implementation of music, alternating it between fast paced scenes 
 and slow moments in the game, they already said goodbye to the redbook audio.
  Its the only really big fault i have with the game.
  
  Value and Reviewers Tilt
  
  Considering 
 how cheap HL is, it wont hurt your pocket wanting to know how well HL plays. Do not compare this 
 game with any other FPS that you know or the mods that came later with it. 
  HL is a classic for true gamers that want to add to their collection those old games that people 
 tend to forget. 
  HL fortunately is unforgettable, and its legacy will remain for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilsener
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that changed everything, i remember the first time a played the demo i could not 
 wait for the hole game! i mean the hole game play is just perfect new and just what first person 
 shooters needed! the story might be a little wacko but it's just what makes it more and more interesting 
 and makes you want to go further and find out what really is going on! taking on a character as 
 simple and as interesting as gordon freeman has never been better, it looks as he is one of the 
 rest trying to survive but we all know he is not hehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morcegohoman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Sure, expectations are everything, and if you're expecting a lot, chances are you'll be let down. 
 Like maybe the movie King Kong, or Star Wars Episode One. We were all expecting a lot, and because 
 of this we were (probably) let down.
  
  If you got into Half-Life after the revolution it created, you might be let down. Kind of like 
 the movie Psycho. Ever seen it? It's not as scary as most nowadays, but it was the FATHER of modern 
 horror.
  
  Half-Life was and STILL IS for me, the BEST EVER. The standard against which I compare all other 
 games. I didn't mean to compare it to Star Wars Episode One literally.... Half-Life is much better.
 
  
  Why?
  
  You start off trapped underground and you have to crawl your way out while being hunted. This atmosphere/storyline 
 is the key. Half-Life 2 was not as strong as Half-Life in this regard.
  
  I was placed into Gordon's character and set of circumstances much better than average shooters 
 that simply put a gun in your hand.
  
  Shooters = guns right? Well, we had to wait for our gun here. Given only a lousy crowbar at first, 
 we had to sweat it out as the story unfolded. And along the way we learned to love the crowbar.
 
  
  The sequences and puzzles are intelligent and logical. The monsters are all different types of 
 challenges. And the Marines coming to "correct" the situation is another solid plot twist.
  
  What makes a good movie? THE STORY. What amkes a good book? THE STORY. What makes a good song? 
 THE WRITING. And what makes a great video game? THE STORY, once again.
  
  Which game has a better story? I can't think of one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  Half-Life:
  
  By, Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  I know its actually very late to write a review for this game, the reason for me writing the review 
 is because I stepped into the world of gaming just couple of years ago and started writing reviews 
 only by this year. And I thought I definitively should share my thoughts about this Great game.
 
  This game is a famous FPS with lots of cool Physics puzzles to be solved by using your common 
 sense and physics IQ. Some times youll get stuck in a place then you got to find a way out. The 
 game is sensational one from VALVE and you would have heard the sequel Half-Life 2. The sequel 
 is more interesting and equally fun to play.
  
  Gameplay:-
  When you start Half-Life you start as a highly qualified scientist named Gordon Freeman working 
 for a corporation called the Black Mesa. This game has a fabulous story-line with loads of Innovative 
 puzzles. The smart AI makes the game challenging. All the Half-Life games start with some accident 
 and this ones nice! Nice interactivity with the environment is possible in this game. This game 
 does not have any cut-scenes but there is something similar to it , for example the starting of 
 the game itself is a big cut-scene but you can actually move around during the process I hope 
 you got my point! This game varies from time to time its a bit scary, action, excitement and what 
 not? 
  
  
  Graphics:-
  Pretty amazing graphics for the game (NOT to be compared to the latest games) No need of a high 
 end system to play this cool game! Aliens, Scientist & marines look real.
  Yes the latest Half-Life 2 just brought a Gaming revolution in graphics & interactivity but here 
 you need a kinda high end system to play on.
  
  Sound:-
  Sounds are really very good in the game and some times is a bit scary when you hear alien sounds. 
 Every thing sounds real.
  
  
  
  Conclusion:-
  A truly great, awesome, superb FPS game. Its a must have game. I do not want to tell you anything 
 about the story of this game, because its much fun playing than reading so rush now if you 
 havent played the game!! 
  The Multiplayer MOD named Counter-Strike (C. S) was very famous and now C. S source is the latest 
 version of it. The multiplayer is very very cool. The game and its MODs are nothing less than MASTER 
 PIECES. 
  Even the sequel is a great game and other games like Half-Life: Blue Shift, Half-Life: Uplink & 
 Half-Life: Opposing Force are great games. 
  
  I just hope that the Next sequel (I mean HL-3) will be out soonI cant wait to get my hands 
 on them.
  
  Graphics -10/10
  
  Sound-10/10
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  
  Story-Line-10/10
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  Over all-10/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patchtheman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  Ritey, 
  I usually start with the good points and then show the bad points:
  (I am judging this game as if it were the year 1998 on it's release)
  
  Good points:
  -Very 
 intelligent and well scripted story line.
  -Intense, fun and challenging gameplay.
  -Innovative puzzles.
  -Lots of lovely weapons to choose from.
  -Lots of different enviroments.
 
  -Games eases you in very well.
  -Game opens up even more so after the first half e. g. Go outside alot more, new enemies etc.
 
  -Vast areas.
  -Good AI (even up to today's standards)
  -Story leaves alot of holes and gaps so players can create their own theories (If you really like 
 the game)
  -Loads of different enemies.
  -Good music (When there is any)
  -The game does what it's trying to do e. g: Scare you/excite you/calm the action.
  -The maps and 
 levels are some of the best designed levels to date.
  -Easy to use controls.
  -Well scripted voice acting.
  -Good sound effects.
  -Big game first time round.
  -Replay 
 value.
  -Loads of extra mods/games to add to the story.
  -Great online games with it.
  
  Bad Points:-
  -Some of the voice acting isn't great.
  -Some lifts cause you to get stuck 
 for no reason. (Not at all often)
  -May feel repetitive at some points (but the programmers obviously realised this and so quickly 
 add exctiement into it.)
  -Puzzles which you can't figure out can get teadious.
  -You will end up shooting all the scientists that help you because they look so dumb, hee hee. 
 SEE HOW BAD THAT IS!?
  -You will be very annoyed when you find a fence that you could escape over but can't because it's 
 bloody electrical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing this game collecting dust on the shelves while Starcraft was flying off the shelves. 
 I remember looking at it and thinking how much fun it'd be playing as a nerd scientist holding 
 off an alien invasion, and how it boasted great enemy AI... which games doesn't boast that? I recall 
 this game getting big a year after its release, when more people were starting to discover how 
 good this game actually was. The marketing dept at Sierra didn't do a good job for this game, that's 
 for sure, however better that than the overhyped products we'd come to get disappointed by. No 
 one really knew what Half-Life was about, so when it performed really well, it was exceptional 
 to the masses.
  
  I liked the idea of a nerd scientist being in the wrong place at the wrong time, it was a change 
 to games where you played as a professional soldier. The story was very intriguing, dealing with 
 matters in physics, so it was somewhat believable. It dealt with a top secret research facility, 
 so for believers of Area 51, this is credible. The thing is, you're just an ordinary guy and that 
 was one of the things that made this game great. The graphics weren't bad, and the scientists with 
 Barneys were a nice addition. The squad level AI by enemy soldiers, I assume Force Recon due to 
 the fact that they insert via Ospreys, aren't bad, but not all it's hyped up to be. While on that 
 subject, there isn't a single game in my mind that has lived up to the whole "incredible AI' claim. 
 The enemies crouch, duck, run for cover, use different weapons, but you can still channel them 
 and knock them off as they come running around the corner. Moving on, I liked the weapons available, 
 including alien ones. The strange part was that the submachine gun, the MP5, has a grenade launcher 
 attached. Heckler and Koch doesn't make MP5s with grenade launchers, and this issue is addressed 
 later on with the Hi-Definition pack (where it's either a M4 or M16 with a M203) . The progression 
 of the game was nice, but I didn't particularly like the later levels when you're on the alien 
 platforms. Like most people agree with, it's like starring in your own little action flick. I didn't 
 find this game to be revolutionary, but it did solidify FPS, the WASD config, and spawned all sorts 
 of great mods. In conclusion, this game was great, but not revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclipse849
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:31 am PT
Review:  When you start Half-Life you start as a young scientist named Gorden Freeman working for a shady 
 corporation called the Black Mesa. When you arrive by subway to your job location a freak accident 
 happens opening up a portal to another world full of annoying head crabs and huge brutes. You must 
 use the help of your fellow scientist and guards to try to escape to the surface of Black Mesa 
 which at the very end has one of the best endings in any game I have ever played leaving you waiting 
 for Half-Life 2. The game play is much like any other fps but with alot more puzzles that you have 
 to solve to move onto the next level. The graphics in the original are not to great but then with 
 the release of Half-Life2 they have redone the original Half-Life making the same game but with 
 top of the line graphics. The sound is great, so good that at some times i actually jumped because 
 of something, shooting me or trying to "kiss" my head. Not only does Half-Life have a great single-player 
 it also has came up with one the best multiplayer game type ever made. That is of coarse Counter-Strike. 
 I would have to say that this game is the best all around game i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Half life. To many people, this is the best shooter ever made. After playing it 7 years later, 
 I have a tough time believeing that. Hey, maybe some day Half life 2 and Halo 2 will be trash, 
 but those are the real games to play. Half life is a bit behind the times, here's why.
  
  First off, Half life really lacks everything you love about games nowadays. All of the weapons 
 lack serious punch, the music (when there is any) , is very weak and generic and the voice acting 
 is worse than B rated horror flicks. Most of the time in the game, you will just wonder around 
 and shoot up a bunch of aliens. That's all this title is, an alien shooter, the problem with this 
 is, shooting aliens hasn't been this boring. Since all of your weapons lack punch and the death 
 animations that your enemies have is very poor and boring to watch. On top of all this, the game 
 is pretty lenghty, about 15+ hours long. 
  
  Half life's hero is Gordon Freemon, a really interesting main character, mainly because he doesn't 
 speak a single word. While I'm at it, there is no cutscenes in the game. That's right, the entire 
 game is seen and heard through Gordon's eyes and ears. This is actually one of the game's few high 
 points. It's really innovative to have this and now other games have somewhat copied this too. 
 Even the sequal, Half life 2 has this same type of gameplay with no cutscenes, the problem is that 
 the story is tough to understand because of this. I really did have a tough time trying to figure 
 out what was going on half the time thanks to the poor execution of the story being told.
  
  Anyway, Gordon Freemon is a scientist who is being assigned to Black Mesa: A. K. A.: Area 51. 
 This is all really great, but the story just doesn't add up and really leaves a lot of desired 
 questions by the time you finish it. Simply put, the story is pretty lackluster.
  
  Since Half life is a first person shooter, of course your going to get weapons, which is another 
 one of it's few highpoints. The weaponry you get is pretty impressive with the normal arsenal of 
 shotguns, pistols, and machine guns, but you also get lots of cool ones like this gun that spits 
 out spiders that explode on impact, but home to enemies, so they really act like heat seeking rocket 
 launchers. This is some great weaponry since it's mixed with alien weapons and human weapons.
 
  
  The whole premise of Half life is relitively confusing, an experiment goes wrong and Earth opens 
 up a gateway to another planet! (How cheesy) Your one of the few people who survives this blast 
 and apparently, 7 years ago this story cut it, but by today's standards, forget about it. Half 
 life has some boss fights where you have to take on creatures from Xen the planet Earth opened 
 up a gateway to. These boss fights are actually pretty cool, such as the 3 armed monster that can 
 hear you but can't see you. In order to take it out, you have to flip lots of switches and such 
 to make it explode. It's actually a great take on the boss fight that still holds up as impressive 
 7 years later.
  
  A big problem with Half life is the graphics. Everything is in low poly count and low res. Nothing 
 really sticks out as impressive, except maybe when you finially get to visit the planet Xen, which 
 does have some cool looking environments, but that's about it. The character models are very drab 
 and bland, so definitely don't play this game for the graphics. Actually, don't play it at all.
 
  
  The few people you meet will either be scientist's or security guards. Although these security 
 guards will help you shoot up a bunch of aliens (or later in the game military guards) , they have 
 pretty bad A. I. and will frequently get lost from you. At times, you have to have scientist's open 
 up doors for you, so at times there a must to have around. There A. I. is equally bad.
  
  Half life is a pretty tough game. Even by today's standards I had a hard time playing it. The only 
 reason I finished is because I wanted to see how it all began, mainly because I really enjoyed 
 Half life 2. The difficulty comes from lack of health supplies and ammo you find plus the fact 
 that all the creatures you meet in Black Mesa are really tough to take down and the frequent boss 
 fights, while impressive, are also tough. The puzzles that you encounter every so often will really 
 make you think and will almost definitely make you go online for a walkthrough, so be ready for 
 a tough game that isn't very rewardng.
  
  If you still want to play the game that's fine, but be ready to be disappointed, maybe if you played 
 the game a few years back or when it first came out, this game would have blown you away, but playing 
 it now just isn't fun at all. I know Half life 2 is a superb game in every respect, but Half life 
 just feels like to much of a step back to be fun in any way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewy942
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I have played games ranging from Call of Duty to Age of Empires and this game is pretty good. Their 
 are many obsticals. I dont think that there are enough weapons. A wider variaty of weapons would 
 be nice. Game play is decent. The online is a blast but there are better online games out there. 
 I recommend you try to find this game on a deal instead of paying full price because its not worth 
 it. If you want to get this game or disagree with me that is fine but I have played plenty of PC 
 games to know what I am talking about. The mods for this game could use some work. And the maps 
 are nice but need a little more bang to them. If your just wanting a semple game with a good storyline 
 then this game is just right for you. But if you want some action and amazing graphics keep looking 
 cause your not in the right spot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8ingmexikan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  go buy it rip it rent anything but just get it its awesome at the begginning its a bit boring but 
 just play around for 15 minutes and ull quickly get the hang of it or just use the hazard course 
 which is the tutorial on how to play hl another thing is that it has awesome sound and for of gore 
 blood splattering moster popping its koolgo buy it rip it rent anything but just get it its awesome 
 at the begginning its a bit boring but just play around for 15 minutes and ull quickly get the 
 hang of it or just use the hazard course which is the tutorial on how to play hl another thing 
 is that it has awesome sound and for of gore blood splattering moster popping its kool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I had played Half-Life several times, in stores, a friend's house, a demo, but in reality, you 
 have no clue how exceptional this game is until you actually own it for yourself, so you can experience 
 it as it was meant to be played, you playing as, yourself.
  You never leave your shoes in this game, all the action doesn't center around you, but instead 
 it revolves around your environment, truly making you feel as a inhabitant of a real world gone 
 awry, as scripted events unfold, they appear in front of your eyes and shock you, unlike any cinematic 
 could have ever done before.
  
  Half-Life is a shooter. And that's where the long winded description ends. You will have to realize, 
 that this is where the genre turned on its head, even with Half-Life's straight-forward gameplay, 
 it still manages to introduce a experience you have never played before. You play as Gordon Freeman, 
 who experiences a catastrophe first-hand as a experiment goes horribly wrong, bringing all kinds 
 of alien beasts into our world, your goal is to survive, and end the slaughter if you can. 
  
  One of the game's best features is its weapons. They are the generic Pistol/Shotgun/Automatic, 
 but they feel like their own, each weapon has a definite kick and feel, and you will certainly 
 remember each one of them. In fact, I can just shorten this review and tell you that everything 
 in the game is beautifully designed, the monsters, the levels, the writing, and the voice-acting. 
 Each area in the game proves every second you play why Half-Life is the shooter with the best singeplayer 
 experience you can have.
  
  The graphics, although not in their prime in this day and age, still manage to show you why many 
 believed this to be one of the best looking games of all time. When playing on a good resolution, 
 with OpenGL and 32-bit color activated, the game features some sharp textures, and great lighting 
 with excellent model detail. 
  
  Remember that Half-Life is not still the amazing game it was back then, while it still is exceptional, 
 the mods the fans have produced for this game is certainly what makes it stand out, Counter-Strike, 
 Day Of Defeat, Team Fortress Classic... It's all great, and you can't go wrong picking this up 
 in your closest bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackandWhite0
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:26 am PT
Review:  Half-life. Interesting title for a game that is quite long, for a game that has thrills and excitement 
 around every corner, for a game that revolutionised First Person Shooters.
  You are Gordon Freeman, a 27 year old Theoretical Physisist. YOu show up at the Black Mesa Faciltiy 
 late for an experiment. Grabbing your Hazerdous EnViroment suit Mark 4 you rush to the experiment. 
 You activate the machine, and push in the sample. But then, disaster strikes. A Renosence Cascade. 
 Gordon is then on a fight for surivival trip out of Black Mesa, battling Aliens planning to take 
 over earth, and also fighting the marines, who would prefer to cover up Black Mesa rather that 
 help people.
  
  Half-Life was and still is the greatest FPS out there, and it fully deserves all the credit it 
 gets. Plus, now being an old game, can be picked up for less then 20, which also makes it a great 
 bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malkav11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I can recall reading previews practically drooling over the things Valve was going to do with Half-Life. 
 I've read reviews lauding it for its immersion, its play value, the ground it broke..
  
  I must be missing something.
  
  It took me a while before I could actually play Half-Life. 
 I didn't have a PC with a 3D card until a couple years after it came out. I suppose maybe I'm just 
 looking at it from the eyes of someone who's seen the fruits of the genre between then and now.... but 
 so many people seem to regard it as still one of the best FPSes around that I'm thinking that that 
 doesn't matter so much.
  
  Amazing it's not. Ground-breaking.. maybe, but only just. What Half-Life is to me is a basic, mediocre 
 shooter with graphics that hold up a little better than most games of that vintage. Much has been 
 said about its incredible plot. I didn't see any such thing. There's a couple of levels where the 
 setting is established, and then all hell breaks loose and you're shooting things or bashing them 
 with the infamous crowbar for pretty much the rest of the game. .... or doing one of the innumerable, 
 tedious, and badly implemented jumping puzzles, a game element that's horribly out of place.
  There's the occasional scripted sequence, but most of them just set up some new threat you have 
 to face without having any other real impact.
  Let's face it. Doom 3 has more plot than Half-Life ever did. The reason Half-Life gets talked about 
 for its plot is that unlike most games, it delivers what little there is entirely in real time. 
 No cutscenes. This is unquestionably more immersive, but since you generally have little to no 
 control over what's going on during those sequences, it falls well short of where I think Valve 
 wanted to go.
  
  There are many other shooters before and since that have more original settings, better plots, 
 more exciting weapons, are scarier, have better designed levels, and generally deliver more gaming 
 goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Good: Amazing way the storyline is presented. Excellent graphics. Good usage of blood and gore. 
 Excellent voice acting. Great weapons and tactics. The keyboard works like a charm when interacting 
 with this game. Always fun. Long and fun. Addicting. Scary!
  
  Bad: Storyline can sometimes become to simple at times. Load times take too long. This game was 
 definitely not made for little kids or children.
  
  Bottom Line: This is one of the greatest games ever created for the PC. Although this, in my opinion, 
 is not revolutionary game, it is definitely amazing. The way this game is presented on the PC is 
 incredible. This game is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  I just started playing half-life... its like 10.00 at walmart now. The price isnt puting that game 
 down any way shape or form though. This is a great sci-fi shoot em up game. i found the game it-self 
 a little odd but it still won my heart over. The multiplayer (team fortress) is the best out of 
 the package of the game. It has voice chat capabilities and text format. it has many roles u can 
 take part in to make sure ur teams succeds the online match. There are HWG (heavy wepons guy) to 
 help defend, scouts to move fast over enemie terrain and spy to sneak in past turrets made by enginears. 
 This is game ull defintly get addicted to. What are u waiting for reading the rest of this review 
 get the @$$! out there and get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfinityTomorro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  1998. The so called "greatest year" (Gamespot) of video games. In this year, many of the best games 
 ever came out, including Metal Gear Solid, Legend of Zelda: OoT, and Grand Theft Auto. But then 
 out of left field comes Half-Life, a new FPS from unknown company Valve. Results were shocking. 
 Getting rave reviews and quickly rising to the top of the charts, Half-Life single handedly changed 
 the way FPSs were made and still stands as a benchmark for dreaming developers, and for good reason. 
 Half-life is probably the best First Person Shooter ever made.
  
  Gameplay
  One thing that made this game revolutionary was the way it told a compelling story without the 
 use of cutscenes. The entire game is told in real time; no tricky camera angles, no camera panning, 
 no other point-of-view other than Gordan Freeman's. You never get taken out of the experience to 
 watch a movie. My only complaint is that its too easy to meander through the game without knowing 
 an ounce of the story. Since most conversation is initiated by talking to NPCs, you can talk to 
 start to talk to a person and easily walk away as their voice gets softer and softer and trails 
 off. The Hazard Suit is a nice gameplay addition. It displays your heath and armor and your ammo. 
 Whats nice is that you dont always lose health when you get hit. You have armor which can be recharged 
 at energy stations. My favorite part of this game is the all around creepiness the game gives off, 
 mainly the random appearances of the G-man. With his black suit, perfect hair, and chopped english, 
 the mysterious G-man sends chills down your spine whenever you hear him talk better than any other 
 character ever. 
  
  Controls
  Standard, or now standard, FPS controls. The typical WSAD movement, space for jump, Ctrl for duck, 
 E to use or action, Mouse for looking and weapon control. Simple.
  
  Sound
  Very little music but when there is it comes in at the right time. If you walk away while an NPC 
 is talking, the Doppler effect come in effect and will slowly fade away. Guns are fired like guns 
 and you can hear the bullet shells hit the ground.
  
  Replay Value/ Overall
  I've played this game about 5 times. The action and key plot moments are memorable to say the least 
 and will make you wanting to go through the game over and over again. Along with Timesplitters 
 and Black (hopefully) , this is one of my favorite FPS games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorch1984
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Well maybe not in the house but sure in this game!!
  When I began to play HL I thought: oh man... what the hell... this is so boring.... what with all 
 this credit stuff....... where are the guns..... oh...... maybe I need to delete this game...". But 
 lucky for me... I never delete a game before I see the "Game Over" ( in the good way... not... you 
 dead so game over dude! )
  so I continue to play..... and I've got to say... it was worth every second!!!!
  After the "big 
 BOOM!" at the lab the game start to take another level... aliens.... lots of doctors comrades slain 
 on the floor ( or this awesome lick lick thing grab them and chaw their little heads!) and don't 
 forget about the GUNS!!
  In games there always a progress:
  1. the game begin
  2. a dramatic scene
  3. action
  4. The surprise
  5. action
  6. boss
  7. boss suprise
  8. happy 
 happy ending!
  
  In HL..... number 3, 4, 5 repeat non-stop.... But in the most awesome way ever!!!
  I think I never 
 said so many times in a game: omg!, Holy **** No way!, WOW!!" like I said when I played this 
 game!
  
  The graphic really good for the time ( now it's really close to 2006.. after I played HL2 :) ) .
 
  Gameplay...... one of the best I think!! and I've played lots of games and except HL2 I don't think 
 that other game van match this one with such story, gameplay and AI ( for the time when it came 
 out ) .
  Wonderful arsenal- very creative!!
  The music and sound really get you inside the game!!
  
  What more can I say...?
  Buy this 
 game!!
  It's never too late to play one of the best games that came out for PC!!
  10/10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Before playing Half-Life all I knew was that it was a popular first person shooter, I had no idea 
 how critically acclaimed it was so you should know that I was in awe of this whole game. You are 
 Gordon Freeman, scientist for Black Mesa research facilities, it seemed just like another day at 
 the lab until an experiment blew up in your face. Now your job is to pick up the crow bar and fight 
 your way out of aliens and trigger happy soldiers to freedom. This game runs amazingly well and 
 it plays even better, the graphics though a little dated are very good still and the conversations 
 between some of the characters are not so life like but better than most games. This game has many 
 add on (like Opposing forces and Blue Shift) and others (like Natural selection and Day of Defeat) . 
 This is one of my best first person shooters anyone could have a good time playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thatdot6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is definately a big step for first-person shooters. Instead of those games which gives 
 out random objectives, this game put you into a sciencist's position and develops a storyline.
 
  
  The game starts out in the shoes of Gordon Freeman, a theoritical sciencist... you are testing 
 this substances then the whole place explodes... The only bad part about the gameplay in this game 
 is the 10 minute introductory just riding on a monorail to where you work... This game will really 
 get first-person shooters to use their brains and solve puzzles and find ways around obstacles... 
 IF you are really bored, you can often try spot out the G-man in the game...
  
  The AI in Half-Life is very realistic. When you lob in a grenade with enemies, they often scatter, 
 avoiding damage. The AI also has some moves to surprise the gamers with like a headcrab jumping 
 out from a dark duct. The physics in this game is also pretty realistic, for example, if you hold 
 a grenade without it pin for too long, the grenade will explode in your face and electricity conducting 
 through water. 
  
  The graphics can be improved, a bit more effort can be put it with the people models. It looks 
 like all the characters came out of a cloning machine. The texture still needs improvement on. 
 The explosions are pretty realistic as well... the blood and a guts have quite a lot of detail. 
 Sometimes you are see a person's skull and a person's heart still pumping... 
  
  In conclusion, this game is great. This is one of those games you will feel proud finishing. Although, 
 you have to wait 10 minutes for the actual game to start, it is all worthwhile. But you have to 
 be ready for a lot of blood and guts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbgamefreak5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  like said its a great challenging game, i think its better than halo and im a huge halo fan, half 
 life is a great game and is still worth 50.00 in my opinion, worth buying and playing over and 
 over again just for the adventure, 2 thumbs and all fingers up. from the beginning till end your 
 wondering whats going on and what will happend, and the gameplay makes it fun to play so you arent 
 just wanting to beat it for the amazing story plot, overall i give it a 9.5, the same rating i 
 gave halo. even though i think its better they still equal up, so for all the halo fans that dont 
 just like the game for the multiplayer and everyone else go to the store and pick up this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakbuky_ted
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  The best Shooter game of all time is definately Half-Life! The greatest part of this game is it 
 is not only shooting aliens but you have to go through various obstacles. For example, you need 
 to push certain boxes in a pattern so you don't get zapped by electric filled water. Also it is 
 a very hard and long game so you wont finish the game the day you buy it. You have monsterous weapons, 
 human weapons, and scientific weapons you could choose from to destroy monsters, aliens, marines, 
 and assasins that all have the same mission: TO KILL YOU!
  From, WakBuky_ted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  For its time this has some great graphics and gameplay. You play as Gordan Freeman a scientist at 
 the Black Mesa facility one day you are doing a deminsional expirement that goes horribly wrong 
 bringing these horrible alien creatures that kill all humans in site your job escape the Black 
 Mesa facility and live happily ever after tho thats not an easy task. The game has no cutscenes 
 meaning the action is never stopped to give you the story you get it as soon as the bad happens. 
 Tho action is fast and fun it is seems a little to fast and Gordan runs a little to fast to keep 
 up with and can get annoying. Later when you start fighting other humans (or are they) the lack 
 of a headshot kill is dissapointing. The action is sometimes broke up by a puzzle of some sorts 
 that is required to continue. Overall this game was great in its time and is still fun today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcrito
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game changed the way we thought about games and I am not surprised. The gameplay was very 
 unique at the TIME and games had never seen the laws of physics and gravity before produced so 
 beautifully. Everything in the game can be moved or toggled with (the best being the exploding 
 microwave!) There are about 15 weapons in the game and they all have different properties and all 
 can be used with a different tactic. The enemy AI was amazing at the time and they thought about 
 the situation first before diving in and getting themselves killed. The sound is amazing and it 
 is still probaly the ONLY game (bar Half-life 2) that the NPC's have conversations with other NPCs. 
 It's funny to just watch them chat to each other. The story is immersive and addictive and you 
 will be playing it for about 20 hours. Oh yeah, Counter-Strike is the best thing EVER!!!!!!!!!!!. 
 Who cares if Half-Life 2 is out, YOU NEED THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skinydude5656
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has gone above and beyond the call of duty, it has shown what the mind can and still 
 has yet to do. This game is a benchmark in gaming. I thought that Doom was good, damn was i wrong. 
 If you don't like this game then you are nothing less than a retard. You no nothing of gaming if 
 you dont like this game. It is simply impossible to not find this game anything less than miraculous. 
 It is going to be a favorite for many years to come. There have been many benchmarks in gaming, 
 Road Rash, Duke nukem, Doom, and now Half-life 2. I will have this game on my shelf for many, many 
 years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  This is the game were Gordon Freeman get's trapped in the Black Mesa when a experiment goes wrong 
 and aliens teleports in. The militery goes in to stop teh aliens and kill the people that work 
 there to cover the true story. As usely. Stupid noobs.
  
  This game is perfection indeed. May be old graphics, but that doesn't matter huh? Good. It sounds 
 good at least.
  
  But the really thing is the mods. Counter-strike, Day of defeat, The Specialist , they are all 
 mods, from teh beginning.
  These keep you going. All lot.
  
  If you don't own this game, you are one big loser. So get it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  If you can believe it, I just recently got a chance to play this classic game. All this hype about 
 Half Life two, which should be out any day now, got me interested in the first one and from what 
 I was told, I had to play. I am glad to say that the game did not disappoint. Although the graphics 
 are a little bit weak by today's standards, for 1998 it was clearly way ahead of its time. And 
 not only in graphics, but also in AI and story. I can actually say that the game was not repetitive 
 or boring at any point and I am sure it won't be through to the end. 
  
  The intro itself was very nice and although a little long, it was interesting, so worth the watch. 
 The interaction with the non-playable characters is better than many of today's games and the loading 
 and saving is, as most PC games, very well thought out, with a quick save and auto save points. 
 
  The other characters look at you as you move around and they interact with others and can be interrupted 
 by you. They might only have a few lines each, but for its time, it was very impressive. The interaction 
 with the surroundings is minimal, but still better than some recent FPS that I have played. You 
 can only interact with the things you are meant to interact with, but that is better than nothing. 
 You can also shoot friendly people and the puzzles are interesting, yet don't make you want to 
 shut the game off due to frustration. 
  
  The game has very few problems also and the ones it has are so trivial and do not take away from 
 the game. Things like the fact that the gun will reload although it is already full or that the 
 aim is slightly off. I won't get too into it, since most have already played, but if you are like 
 me and have not yet played this as off 2004, play it. Even by today's standards it is good and 
 will keep you entertained for many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gadabout
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  I find this game very good because it never gets boreing it took me hours to finish and most of 
 those hours were spent doing some serious action, but this game still contains some sweat-breaking 
 puzzles, which may lead to your death if not careful. But literally every thing in this game is 
 very realistic nothing about it is fake, so it is a must for gore lovers. this game is so realistic 
 that even the way people and aliens react could make you faint in shock because aliens may run 
 away from you if you attack them and those wimpy scientists will cower in the corner every time 
 a shot is fired and the "fearless" barneys will attack any one who hurts his friends. very realistic 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FD_Gordon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The most amazing game ever!
  
  Back when it came out, yes I was just a kid but I've played every day for a very long time. Over 
 the years, after purchasing half-life 2... Here it is a review of the most anticipating game ever. 
 The gameplay is fabulous, like most action games comming out in the late 90's, they all have theese 
 bugs while you play the games, this doesn't work, or that doesn't work. No need for half-life, 
 minor bugs..
  
  No in game videos, for my classification in game videos is a lot more worse then in game actions, 
 where you get to see the player (scientist, security guard, etc.) preforming a true gravity action. 
 The AI, is fabulous, for the time being, that is.
  
  Graphics, top of the line! i mean like compare theese graphics to descent (1995) with a 9800 pro 
 (with no game patchs) . 100's of different textures, smooth, and sleek.
  
  Sounds just right. Smack a dead corpse with a crowbar, where did the get that sound from? Guns, 
 running (on different terrains also) , voice, sound effects are all great. Music is really good, 
 has its own class. I always wish the songs last longer when I play.
  
  Best game ever, better then half-life 2! Well in some ways...
  
  Worth the money, especially 
 nowadays. Don't miss out on the half-lfie source either.
  
  So why did I put 9 on reviewers Tilt, if it should be all 10? Well every game has minor defaults. 
 I, who have playes over 200 hours of this game, (and no, I am not upsest with half-life, its been 
 a while since i've played it) have occured some phases where the scientist will get stuck or appear 
 somewhere because I've spent too much time on one part of the game, or something like that.
  
  Overall 9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  My first experience with Half-life was well.. to sum it up in one word Id say PERFECT. This game 
 revolutionized all first person shooting games, this game set a mark. No game from Half-life on 
 should even try to make a game if they dont look at Half-life for examples. The graphics at the 
 time where the best out there, and the sound was just as good. The games keeps a great storyline 
 also, it keeps it smooth and coherent. I enjoy the suspense, the hidden creatures, the challenges 
 set up for me all through the game. Here is a game you could play today and still enjoy. GREAT 
 GAME, A MUST!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Thats right... I said it. 
  
  And its true. This game has to have one of the best storylines of any first person shooter ever. 
 Its immersive, and intensive from start to finish. And the great part for those of you that have 
 NOT played it yet is that you wont have to wait like 10 long years for part 2 like I did!!!!
  
  Your a scientist, an experiment goes wrong. BOOM, your an adventurer, you get some awsome weaons 
 (crossbow WHAT!) you kill some baddies. Follow a guy in a business suit around a warzone but CAN 
 NEVER get close. Kill some crazy **** in tight suits. Go to a different dimension. Beat some bad 
 asses. SPLAT, you have to wait from like 1996 to 2005 in order to play part 2! 
  
  Ok you played this game and you are happy with what i told you now go read my review for part TWO 
 and be confident that my reviews lead you to the sweetest tasting water you ever tasted, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is a stunning first person shooter that will catch most everyone off guard with its stunning 
 presentation. Half-Life mixes some of the best concepts, and delivers on all of them in a satisfying 
 manner.
  
  * Reviewing Half-Life in 2005 is fairly difficult, so please keep in mind I am trying to write 
 as if I was playing in the same time period as its initial release.
  
  Half-Lifes story is fairly hard to pick up on, since you arent given much to work with from the 
 get-go. You start out onboard a Black Mesa rail cart heading to your workplace, Anomalous Materials. 
 You play the role of Gordon Freeman, a scientist with a degree in Theoretical Physics. Upon arrival 
 in the lab you come across a security guard who tells you about a crash in the system around 20 
 minutes prior to your arrival, no big deal he tells you and that you are needed in the testing 
 chamber as soon as possible to begin a new experiment. You will need some protection against the 
 radiation involved with the experiment, and just for general safety as well you are required to 
 get into a Hazardous Environment Suit, nicknamed the HEV suit.
  
  The scientists down in the testing area have been awaiting your arrival and brief you on the experiment 
 that is about to take place. Apparently a new sample (of what is not apparent) is in and they want 
 to run some tests on it, it is the most pure sample they have ever collected. The experiment starts 
 up, all is going well, until you push the sample into the ion stream and create a resonance cascade, 
 which creates a rift in space and time. What happens next is not readily apparent, you appear to 
 be teleported to an alien planet for several seconds and then back into the test chamber. When 
 you get back you can see the chamber has been destroyed and you need to immediately get out of 
 the area. Upon running back through the labs you encounter what appear to be zombies and what you 
 will later know as headcrabs. The scientists call for help from the government and they respond 
 by sending the military to kill everyone associated with the project, including you. Half-Life 
 is about a struggle for your life, from your own government (who seem to have blamed the incident 
 on you) and from the countless new, strange, and deadly life forms that have since appeared.
  
  [In 1998] Half-Life boasts some of the best graphics and level design the gaming world has 
 seen yet. Richly detailed graphics and astounding player and weapon models make for one of the 
 most involving game experiences to date. In addition to the graphics the level design is often 
 difficult to manage and proceeding is difficult making the 20 or so levels in game last a considerable 
 length of time.
  
  In Half-Life you have around 5-8 weapons varying from pistols and assault rifles all the way through 
 to bug and lightening guns. The arsenal is reasonably diverse and each gun feels different to control 
 and requires a different tactic to use, which is no doubt a good thing.
  
  Although Half-Life may be difficult to beat on the medium level, it would only take a decent player 
 somewhere between 7-12 hours to beat. These 7-12 hours of game time is only a disappointment because 
 the game is so fun and so impressive that you will find yourself wanting more. Thats where multiplayer 
 comes in.
  
  [Played with the Steam Client] The multiplayer on Half-Life is set up rather basically with several 
 different modes offering some cool things in each. You have your basic deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 modes with CTF and a few others. One really cool feature is to be able to play the G-man online! 
 The G-man is a mystery person who is never really revealed and appears in sometimes-creepy timing 
 to an event. Another thing is he seems to come and go without anyone but you even noticing. Look 
 for him in the single player campaign as he appears around 5-7 times, you can tell its him because 
 he is a thin white man with a suit and briefcase.
  
  From the fantastic opening to the extraordinary ending, Half-Life is a game that stands alone as 
 a revolutionary step in the first person shooter genre. If you havent already, get going and experience 
 Half-Life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Revolutionary game mechanics; great graphics for its day; incredibly immersive atmosphere; 
 realistic and fantastic level design; good AI; awesome sound; great weapons
  BAD: Not enough music; repetitive scientist models; level design gets a little weird on alien world
 
  
  Half-Life is THE shooter game. Half-Life was the first game that made shooters what they are today. 
 It redefined the genre, and to this day many of the elements you see in a shooter can be traced 
 directly to Half-Life.
  
  The campaign begins as just a normal day at work. Gordon Freeman is a scientist working on some 
 top-secret scientific experiment of some sort that goes wrong and opens a portal to an alien world, 
 who begin invading. So the plotline is unoriginal? That's the only thing. The game throws you out 
 into a normal setting simply so it can set up the atmosphere of the game to come. This was perhaps 
 the first shooter that ever attempted to set you up in this way, and in any shooter that does this 
 now... the root of that was, indeed, Half-Life.
  
  The atmosphere. That is what defines this game. The atmosphere is immersive. The first time a headcrab 
 jumps out at you from a dark vent (of which there are many) , it will certainly freak you out. I 
 know it did me. The scripted events that go on around you are executed brilliantly, and this is 
 what really fuels the immersive atmosphere. The game features nothing but short loading breaks 
 to interrupt the action, and there are no cutscenes to see a different point of view. You see everything 
 through Freeman's eyes and there are no levels in a sense of the word, another concept that has 
 been heavily utilized by other games. Conveniently, Freeman never says a word, but you can understand 
 everything that's going on by what other characters say and what goes on around you.
  
  One of the greatest things about the campaign though was its ingenuity. Clever puzzles, extremely 
 intelligent and top-notch level design (nearly unmatched even today) , and astonishing, unmatched 
 presentation all simply serve to fuel the realistic atmosphere of the game.
  
  Half-Life's great level design takes you through a large variety of different settings, and the 
 pacing ranges from methodical, careful progress to non-stop combat meshing beautifully with the 
 level design. The pacing never seems to drag along too slowly or too quickly. No amount of words 
 can explain the ingenuity of the level design. Half-Life was also the first shooter that did not 
 place powerups, ammo, and health at random places. It was even the first one that didn't feature 
 powerups of any source. All ammo and health will be found in storage lockers, shelves, and on the 
 bodies of dead people.
  
  Even for this day in age, the AI is fairly intelligent. The first time you encounter a large marine 
 squad, you will be amazed at how intelligently they work together. For a game made in 1998, it's 
 amazing that they even had the technology to create this clever.
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the puzzles. The puzzles are never overly intimidating or frustrating, 
 but are challenging enough to keep you entertained and are meshed smoothly with the combat and 
 hallway-roaming (of which there is little true hallway-roaming) . The puzzles are creative, intelligently-designed, 
 and sometimes just plain massive (the part of Surface Tension where you must dodge tripwires to 
 avoid setting off a massively mined storage facility for a nuke comes to mind) . Another brilliant 
 concept of the game are the aliens. The aliens are believable, creative, unique, and thoughtful 
 and could fit in perfectly in a science fiction or fantasy story.
  
  The sounds of the game are at least believable and realistic, and what little voice acting and 
 music there is is generally good enough to keep me entertained. The graphics were groundbreaking 
 for 1998, but definitely look outdated now.
  
  However, despite all that is good about the game, no game can be perfect. There is only one type 
 of marine and a handful of separate scientists, and it gets fairly repetitive after a while fighting 
 seeing the same types of people over and over again. The level design near the end, especially 
 on the alien world of Xen, is just plain weird, although I still found it creative, since you essentially 
 delve straight into the innerworkings of the alien empire and they did about as good a job as you 
 can on a completely alien society. In addition, the storyline is relatively cliched and has little 
 depth to it (although the continued mysteriousness of the G-Man that continues into the sequel 
 still intrigues me) .
  
  Overall Half-Life is simply a classic, atmosphere-driven game that's sure to remain a classic for 
 as long as computer games exist. The presentation, artificial intelligence, revolutionary level 
 design, clever puzzles, unique aliens, variety of settings, and perfect pacing are nearly unmatched, 
 even in today's gaming world. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brakzias
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but I've been playing HL for years, and I have to say, for it's time it is one of the 
 best games ever made. This game scores a perfect 10. All of its content was amazing back in its 
 time. Sure the sequel blows it out of the water, but that's just how games should be. Start with 
 perfect, move on from there. If they keep pumping stuff out like this, I'll go flat broke buying 
 them all. And that's not even a bad thing. I had so much fun with just the single player, but the 
 multiplayer is still just as entertaining. Heck, even the mods made for the game, like Sven Co-op 
 is amazing when you have a bunch of friends to play it with. All in all, this game gets my two 
 thumbs up. I salute you Sierra. I salute you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allehelgens
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Half-Life was released in 1998, but you ask ''can I still enjoy it in 2005 and beyond?'' The 
 answer, Yes, if you aren't someone looking for something wrong with the game, like a lot of people 
 are these days.
  Half-Life starts out in the Black Mesa facility with Gordon Freeman and his fellow scientists experimenting. 
 Needless to say this isn't a Hollywood story where they discover something great, everything goes 
 wrong, then... you pick up the gun er, crowbar... and begin to annihilate the aliens that have you 
 have unleashed upon the world. No weight on your shoulders yet?
  Like every other FPS up to then Half-Life keeps the same basics, same feel and common weapons, 
 so nothing new there really, except for the jumping, there are more combinations of jumping than 
 any other game in the genre, still. Causing you to have to use every combination there is to get 
 across each level.
  The levels are particularly large, although there are the dreaded 'LOADING...' stamps every-so-often 
 it doesn't hinder the game, since they come when you aren't doing any combat, but usualy after 
 loading the next area, you will be engaging in combat or progressing with the story.
  Story-wise, the game has incredible depth for a FPS, and legnth, of all things you'd be expecting 
 the game to finish when you actually reach the half way point, or sooner for some.
  Half-Life, greatest PC game of the 90's, or at least the most revolutionary. If you haven't played 
 it, you need to be ashamed. If you decide to give Half-Life 2 a shot, you will get Half-Life anyway, 
 so even if you aren't interested in an "old" game you can still mess around with it. Even though 
 playing the second before the first is a big no-no with story-line driven games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  What an amazing game this is. Incredible, cinematic, realistic, interactive, well animated, nicely 
 modeled, well sounding, the sense of power, the lineup of weapons, I don't know where to begin.
 
  
  First of all, this game has incredible presentation from start to finish. It's very cinematic, 
 in cases where you have a shotgun, and you have to watch a scientist fight a headcrab, and lose, 
 all behind a thick glass so you can't help him. In the beggining, just listening, looking at everything, 
 it all has life. You can go up and talk to the life you see; you can examine it closely; you can 
 blow it up; you can see all the pretty; colorful; and immersive backrounds in the game. It's just 
 a great looking game.
  
  The innovation and interactivity of this game is incredible. Games are interactive. You play the 
 game, you do what you want in the game. You survive, kill, or love in your game. However, half-life 
 took the interactivity of a game, and made it seem like a life you partly live. 
  
  The audio in the game is great. Every weapon sounds real when you fire it. Every crate sounds like 
 a crate when you bash it. Every clang or pop sounds like a clang or pop in real life. For most 
 parts of the game, there's no music. Though, is this a bad thing? You hear your footsteps as they 
 hit the ground, the rocket wizzing past your head, the military as they plan out loud. The audio 
 is just great, a lot of effort is really shown into it, and even if there isn't a lot of music, 
 who cares.
  
  The AI in this game is incredible, I've never seen a game with such smart, quick witted, and intelegent 
 ones. If the AI has a helicopter on their side, they won't hide, if they're under fire, they run. 
 If you hide, they flush you out with grenades. If you don't take cover, they attack you with remarkable 
 aim. After a while, it feels like you're facing real people , you can even pinpoint damage your 
 opponents depending on where you hit them. Headshots, body shots, and leg shots, just all there. 
 Some of the enemies are a little shallow (Barnicles, giant piranhas) , but every other enemy is 
 a worthy opponent, specifically military soldiers, who communicate with eachother, and set up plans. 
 There are traps set for you, there are suprises, and challenges with the AI. Some of the enemies 
 require different tactics to fight than just to go up to them and blast them. You have to think.
 
  
  You just have to get this game. Right now it's about $20, and it comes with about 7 other games, 
 including both expansion packs, and Counter-Strike. Just buy the game, you won't be sorry. Everything 
 about this game is amazing, and it has changed the way I will think about games forever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPNKR
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  Half Life was released around 1997, it stars 27 year old Gordon Freeman working in the Black Mesa 
 Research Facility. As expected, all hell breaks loose very quickly, and it is up to our hero to 
 save himself. 
  The story is presented all through the eyes of your character. There are no cutscenes and long 
 breaks in-between stages like you are used to. The whole game will feel like one long, gigantic 
 adventure.
  Here, in a nutshell, are the pros and cons of the game: 
  
  Pros
  + Excellently told story, the most immersive and frightening on-the-edge-of-your-seat action the 
 market had to offer back then
  + Addicting gameplay. You will actually have to think about what you do and the superb level design 
 means that there is more than one way to do things.
  + Awesome graphics. For back then, this was good stuff. The lighting effects were excellent and 
 helped the player feel like you are in the character's shoes
  + Great sound and controls. Nuff said.
  + Lovely variety of weapons. From the pistol to the machine 
 gun to the gauss cannon to the hornet gun. The diversity will leave you wondering which one you 
 will use.
  
  Cons
  - the final stages are extremely frustrating and dissapointing, requiring you to make difficult 
 and odd jumps making it feel like Super Mario Half Life.
  - the game is REALLY brutal at some points, and the marine's health may seem to be too much at 
 some points
  
  Other than those, this is an excellent game for you to check out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gyro-ranker
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has is so realistc you wont belive, no more shooting the guy in the head 10 times before 
 he dies. This game puts fourth somthing all other games have lacked before in first person shooters, 
 GOOD AI. In half life when get in a shoot out they use wall doors anything to protect themself 
 (much unlike most shooter's where they just keep walkin to you tell you blow there brains out) . 
 And to top that off you can actual shoot through boxs and thin walls, no more boxs or chairs blocking 
 your shots you just shoot through them. In my opinon, if you dont have this game then, YOUR A FOOL 
 ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concealedview
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:19 am PT
Review:  This game deserves a lot of credit. But I still can't help feel it's WAY too over-rated.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is what you'd expect from a first-person shooter. You run, you shoot, you 
 jump, and you die..... a lot.
  
  Through out the game you will get different weapons to shoot your alien (or human) enemies, and 
 most of the guns are what you'd expect. They're fun and they go in order from small to big. The 
 gameplay is pretty good for a first person shooter. There is a little more tactical feel to fighting 
 but overall its just a plain old first person shooter. And you better get ready to save and die 
 a lot. There are a lot of points in the game where you WILL die unless you know what is about to 
 happen. So you'll be walking into an elevator and all of a sudden it drops and you die. I guess 
 that's kind of cool until you reload like a step before you walked in (or an hour before you walked 
 in, saving is so fast you sometimes forget to save =/) and you do the right thing. I don't think 
 it's that fun to just die instantly and load knowing the future. I'd rather die because I was being 
 an idiot and I start over and overcome it by correcting my wrong, thats the way it should have 
 been done.
  
  Graphics- The graphics were pretty regular, there was nothing special to them. They looked like 
 regular texture mapped polygon characters to me. The aliens could have looked better but there's 
 nothing wrong with that. The environments were pretty bland but it was good because all switches 
 and ammo and stuff were visible. Occasionaly I'd get stuck from not seeing a switch but rarely.
 
  
  Sound- The sound was pretty good but the voices were a little too low when people spoke, and some 
 of the gun sounds were pretty weird. Nothing to complain about though, the sounds conveyed the 
 action pretty well, they were just sort of noisy.
  
  Value- I can see myself playing this game again, but not anytime soon. Thinking about playing this 
 game again makes me feel bored right now.
  
  All in all a good first person shooter. Maybe it's because I'm not so hyped about most first person 
 shooters, but this just feels like a 3-D 'Doom 2' to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrNib
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Amazed of how good this game was. For being an old game its still pretty fun to play! I was lost 
 alot tho, but it was still pretty fun to play with! This is worth your purchese. Another cool thing 
 about this game is that it has a great modding community to add more life to the game. What i thought 
 it lacked was weapons. The weapons there are allready good, but there needs to be more of em. Errr 
 thats all i realy have to save, its a great game but i coudlnt enjoy the multiplayer because i 
 lost my cd-key that lets me play online, but i can still play singleplayer and thats good enough 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeshwent
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  Half Life is a game that can be whole-heartedly called as a masterpiece because it has achieved 
 the things that can be done by a very few. It helped to set a trend of First person shooting that 
 is even lasting today.
  
  The First Person Shooting completely absorbs the boring so-called things. In fact it creates loads 
 of high intensity packed moments. Gordon Freeman may be a research scientist but he fights like 
 some invincible superhero. As said by Gamespot, that there are a one or two problems that can be 
 noted in this game. The scientists the soldier grunts all look like they are just been released 
 from some cloning machine. Another huge problem is the boring time in some of the final levels of 
 the game. After you enter Xen the whole excitement simply drops down to zero. Jumping and jumping 
 it becomes like an action super mario game. Even the 15th (Gonarch`s Lair) and 16th (The Interloper) simply 
 bore you out till hell!
  Well whatever it may be it is still a game to be played and honestly be really enjoyed.
  
  
 Yeshwent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the very first good first-person shooters out there. Its story is different 
 then usual. You play as Gordan Freeman. Just another scientist at the black mesa facility. The 
 way this game is play through is a little different. There are no cut-scenes, you are constantly 
 in control of your character. Not to different, but at least its something new to FPSs. All through 
 this game you are thrown into some intense firefights and they never seem to get boring. Also there 
 are some interesting aliens that you fight. The shooting is just like similar FPS games. You are 
 able to bring with you some friends that can help you along the way. The bad thing about this is 
 that they sometimes can get in the way and don't move. So you end up killing them before they become 
 helpful. Thats just one little problem with this game. Overall, this is a great game. It was one 
 of the first games I've played on the computer and it's one of my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The First Person Shooter would be nothing like it is today without Half-Life. Half-Life is one 
 of those special games that stands above all games and that people who aren't fans of the genre 
 will enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Half-Life's gameplay really is the best part of the game and the part of the game that revolutionised 
 the genre. The controls, the variety, the AI, and practically everything else about the gameplay 
 are still great, even with the new fancy games out there. The game is still pretty challenging 
 on easy, and normal and hard are extremely difficult at times. The little puzzles you have to solve 
 make you feel smart when you figure them out.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  If you have yet to buy Half-Life, you should buy the Platinum collection because it includes, among 
 other titles, the Blue Shift expansion which includes a High-Def patch to upgrade the graphics 
 in Half-Life, which were great in '98, but not too great now. With the HD upgrade, you have a game 
 from '98 with graphics equivalent to a game from about 2002 or 2003, and even some games from 2004 
 in certain areas.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The sound of Half-Life was top notch back when it was released, but it is still very difficult 
 to understand some of the voices. Despite the voice problems, the music, gun clatter, and other 
 sounds are very good and round out the experience.
  
  Value: 10/10
  Half-Life has a very good single player to keep you busy for a good time, excellent multiplayer, 
 and a bunch of expansion packs to make the game last a very long time. Not to mention Half-Life 
 2, which you will want to play after playing the original game.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  Half-Life is a revolutionary game that should not be missed. Half-Life 2 is also a revolutionary 
 game that shouldn't be missed. You should try either one, depending on the speed of your computer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigothemanny
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2005 3:32 am PT
Review:  This game requires patience, quick wits, quick fingers, and good problem solving skills. So do 
 games like Mortal Pongbat. What makes Half-Life exceptional is the senses-shattering realism which 
 laces the entire in-game environment. The textures are realistic, the colours appropriate, the 
 sounds rich and flawlessly integrated for stereo separation (as in a monster on your left will 
 always be heard from your left speaker) , the level of interaction possible with the environment 
 and the human characters is above and beyond what one might expect (FYI: punch the red button under 
 the security guard's desk to set off an alarm and make everyone mad!) , and the monsters are just 
 as scary, slimy, and vicious as they come, and backed by a good AI to boot. The level design is 
 incredible, with a perfect balance of problem solving and creature-killing, and the environment 
 and enemies never seem repetitive, so you always have a sense of progress and a need to trudge 
 on in the hopes that your goal might be just around the bend. All this makes this came perhaps 
 the most addictive and awe-inspiring game of all time. And if you pass it and get bored, try the 
 new  game, Opposing Force. And then if you get bored, join the 
 even MORE addictive world of Half-Life online gaming (Team Fortress Classic or Counterstrike) ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankJaeger
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap half life is the best game ever! The story, the guns, the eneimes, its all good!
  
  First, you start off walkin around in new mexico, and you end in frickin space.
  For the time the 
 ai was so frickin smart, And the still are!
  The grapichs are sweet! The sound is awersome! I said awersome!
  The bad thing is............. there 
 is nothing bad with this game.
  So if you dont halflife yet..... what the hell are you doing reading my review for,
  go pick half 
 life up right now, i promise you wont be displeased.
  And its under 20 bucks so go out and pick halflife right fricking now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 12, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is one of the greatest pc games ever made. It is so great the way there are puzzles and 
 action. If you have never played this you must get it. Its worth the money trust me. I was missing 
 out on this game for awhile so I finally got it. Man was it great I can't believe how good this 
 game is. Its a masterpiece. Multiplayer is tons of fun. I play this a lot still and I can't get 
 enough. The single-player is hard but you can still do it. The graphics are good and so is the 
 sound. This game will always be one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all before we get down to business, this game is by far the greatest FPS game. Its the 
 greatest because it started it all with its awesomely intense story, and for the time killer graphics.
 
  
  Now let's get down to business.
  
  Gameplay: It flows very nicely load times are short, and the story never stops. This was the first 
 game I believe that showed its cutscences real time while you were playing which was the coolest 
 part of the game. Valve really got to sense of immersion across, and defined the formula that all 
 other FPS's after it would use. You will find yourself playing this for what seems like only a 
 few minutes and you will see hours have passed by. The AI is relatively smart, and aggressive, 
 and you have several cool weapons at your disposal to do some dirty work through black mesa.
  
  Graphics: For the time the graphics were awesome, now obsolete due to its successor, but the 
 graphics work well enough for the game, the story is the selling point of this game, not the graphics. 
 The characters move like people although the textures are a bit blocky, the the lips just move, 
 they really don't sync with the speech, but again these are all forgivable.
  
  Sound: Very great sound, voice actors voices come in crisp and clear, the weapons sound loud, robust 
 and realistic, and distinctive. Again I am a purist when it comes to FPS games, i always turn the 
 music off, so i can't comment on the music
  
  Value: Lots of great replay value, the multiplayer is awesome for that part. 
  
  Tilt: I am 
 going to push the tilt a little to the right. C'mon its the game that gave us all the cools games 
 we have today.
  
  Difficulty: I gave it a Hard level, because there are some times that get very frustrating in the 
 game, but if you perservere you will make it through. I don't know how many times I died, just 
 save it a lot and you will make it through these spots that although are few and far between, are 
 quite difficult in comparsion to the rest of the game.
  
  Learning Curve: None really, it takes the control scheme of the other FPS games that you have played. 
 The only thing different was this was the first game i played where their were several weapons 
 in categories as opposed to one weapons for each of the number keys. Thats the only real thing 
 to get used to.
  
  Time: to beat the game it took me somewhere between 30-40 hours, I screwed around alot and explored 
 as much as possible, but with the multi-player add-on, i have played this well over 100 hours.
 
  
  In conclusion: This is a masterpiece, and you should not play Half-Life 2 until you have played 
 Half-life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  Fun game took me 6 months to finally beat it definitly worth the price! The gameplay is very fun 
 for this game. You get a whole load of weapons to choose from and that are worthy of helping you 
 succeed into beating the game. Great puzzle which include pressing switches, turning valves and 
 jumping platforms which gets very annoying though. The graphics are crappy seeing that I just beat 
 it and I am comparing it to the new day graphics like half-life 2. I dont care if its an old game 
 or not you can still see the ugly graphics on it. Including the sound effects of the gun shots 
 were just horrible and the voice acting is also terrible. Value it is definitly worth buying, if 
 you have not played it which offcourse everyone has played it by now Im probably the last one to 
 beat it. Oh no wait Ali Zreik never beat it yet. Oh well nvm that. Anyways it truly is worth the 
 pay because of how long the game is. It's a very long game so once you start you wont want to stop 
 untill you beat it. Thinking back on all the levels I had completed is amazing for how long it 
 took me. Awesome game just the graphics and sound led me to give it a low review but a 7 is still 
 an awsome score when comparing to newer day games from 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinx1000
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Half Life, I was undergoing chemotherapy for testicular cancer, therefore I had nothing 
 better to do than sit in front of a computer and be thrilled with what I was experiencing. It seems 
 like every corner turned and every ladder climbed held some excitement, and it got to where I would 
 actually look around the room crazily when I heard the telltale hyena-like speech of an alien slave, 
 the clicking rumble of an alien grunt, or the sound of a radio being used by tough-sounding marines.
 
  The puzzles presented were very ingenious: a few simple ones to get your confidence up, followed 
 by a complex, multi-level, nightmare of a puzzle that when I finally solved made me feel like I'd 
 won a war all on my own (who can forget the saga of having to burn a pair of tentacles by turning 
 on various fuels and firing a test engine) .
  The non-stop adventure, including elevated heart-rate and forehead sweat, and total mental and 
 emotional immersion into the game helped me to forget that I was sick, and of course after a couple 
 of months when I finally defeated the "ugly floating baby", I wanted more!
  
  But that's another story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 5, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  This is thought of as the best FPS to date. Half-Life was so revolutionary and ground-breaking 
 that we have seen nothing that has knocked it from it's mantle of greatness. Not even the excellent 
 sequel has achieved the greatness of the original.
  
  Graphically, sound-wise and musically Half-Life is stunning. However, the gameplay is the exceptional 
 point.
  
  Half-Life is the story of a young research assistant named Gordon Freeman, who gets caught in an 
 experiment gone awry, bringing hostile aliens to Earth. However, the military have come to 'clean 
 up' the mess, and intend to wipe out all scientists and aliens.
  
  Half-Life is like one big adventure, as there are no levels, just chapters. It is also lengthy, 
 so it will last you a long time. You will travel all over the Black Mesa Research Facility, and 
 eventually to the alien border world, Xen.
  
  Enemies are great. Aliens are very fun to fight, and marines are fiendishly clever, using team 
 work and tactics to great extent. On hard, this game truly is hard!
  
  Also, the fact that you have NPC's to assist you is fantastic. Scientists will give you health 
 boosts and open secure doors, while security guards will shoot anything that comes your way.
  
  Half-Life is hard to describe in our crude language. This game is sensational! You must get 
 this game! This is among the very few games you have no excuse for missing, you'll hate yourself 
 for it!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: purpenuk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I bought a new PC and this was my first FPS game. I have since played many other but non have matched 
 this one for story and originality. HL2 is even better by the way. 
  
  It took me a long time to complete the game just because it was the first real game of this sort 
 that I had every played, I was mainly a strategy/ wargame player.
  
  I then got hold of lots of mods and expansions and the game as just continued. It is a true example 
 of buying a game that will last you for years, I remember my wife's face when I spent the money 
 on it, she was shocked at the price. She now realises the amount of time we both have spent on 
 it and how worth the money it was. She even bought HL2 for me for Christmas :)
  
  I am also always amazed by the amount of Mods available for this game. This is not a game its a 
 whole community by itself. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Placebos005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The intro for the game was what caught me when i first played it. It starts off almost as a movie, 
 where you have to go down the Black Mesa facility and to the test lab where you are conducting 
 this test that goes horribly wrong and opens a dimension and everything goes wrong. 
  
  It all starts with a crow bar.
  First weapon you pick up after the disaster. You go through the 
 game killing all these creatures from other dimensions and discover survivors on the way and as 
 you go you get different weapons for your journey. 
  
  There are so many advantages to this game and barely no disadvantages. The 
  multi-player for 
 this game is equally rated - amazing! 
  
  This game will for ever be a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezmorized
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  Half Life is an amazing game. This game was revolutionary. It puts you in the shoes of Gordon Freeman, 
 a Scientist at Black Mesa Research Facility. The game starts out with a train ride and sweeps you 
 off your feet. You meet some people and soon you are doing an experiment and BAM!! you are seeing 
 crazy images of a alien world and then you are back at the facility, but it is different. You then 
 play through the game battling aliens that you saw. The experiment teleported these aliens to the 
 facility and now you have to get to the surface. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very intriguing. There are so many themes in the game and it is balanced so well. 
 For one level you might have to do a puzzel that involves jumping from stepping stone to stepping 
 stone to get to your desitnation. After the game progresses you get harder puzzles and harder enemies. 
 The main style of the game though is a shooter. You are in first person view and you have a selection 
 of weapons that you acquire as the game progresses. You start out with the trademark weapon: the 
 crowbar, but soon you discover the other great weapons that just make the game fun. (Such as snarks) 
 The gameplay keeps you on your feet it doesn't have a repetitive feel to it. The characters contribute 
 to the gameplay and the story as well. Though we don't hear Gordon Freeman speak we hear alot of 
 dialogue from people such as the scientists and the gaurds. These people you have to protect and 
 escort in some cases. But the most mystrious character by far would be Gman. You see him a couple 
 of times in the game, but you don't actually meet him until the end of the game where he gives 
 you an ultimadum. For that you will just have to play the game. But the game has a deep story and 
 well thought out game mechanics. Even today you will have fun playing this game.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  Rating
  
  Graphics:
  It is tough to rate the graphics since I have 
 seen better, but I will do my best. I will rate it if I saw this years ago. The graphics are no 
 award winner in this day and age, but back then it was amazing. The characters and how they moved 
 were very fluid, and the environment was very real looking. The weapons and the explosions were 
 detailed and the characters looked great. The aliens were very unique (especially the one eyed 
 dog thing) and brought an erie / creepy feel to the game. When you saw them at first you were like 
 AHHHH!!! thats hideous. But when you blow it away you feel a little better.
  
  Rating 10/10
  
  Sound:
  The main sounds in the game are effects and dialogue. The effects 
 are very well done for its time and brings a real sense to the game. Like when you are in the heat 
 ducts and it is silent and then out of nowhere a headcrab jumps at you and it makes that sound. 
 EEEK!! It makes my fear of spiders even worse. Many of the effects in the game are well done. The 
 dialogue is very good. For this time period it is one of the best. The scientist you interact with 
 are more or less afraid of what has happened and you can feel that. Barney's have some great lines 
 and the dialogue really lightens the mood sometimes.
  
  Rating 10/10
  
  Value:
  Alright it is 2005 and people are still playing it. Does that do anything for you. The game is 
 a classic and can't be put down. The value is like saying whether you still like your son after 
 10 years. It is timeless and can be played over and over again. The next time I play this it will 
 be like the first time. All jittery and then when I start killing aliens again and I am like this 
 game rules. The game is a gem and should be cherished years to come.
  
  Rating 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  Well the game rocks and it is an instant classic. This is by far one of the greatest PC 
 games of all time and was so revolutionary it amazed the amazed. It amazed me and when I play games 
 I think wow Half Life is sooo much better than this. I give a tremendous appalause to Valve and 
 their superb game.
  
  Rating 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genisk02
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 20, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life was released back in 1998 and was known for scoring over 50 Game of The Year publications, 
 Half-Life was known for being the best FPS game ever created. And of course, I couldn't agree more. 
 I have some great memories playing Half-Life, they will never go away. I literally thought of it 
 as being the best game ever created, not genre-wise.
  
  It's been awhile since it's release, and I'm here, right now, showing you my Review in the year 
 of 2005. We are, of course, quite advanced at the moment when it comes to video games, so of course 
 the graphics or gameplay might not seem as great or fresh as it used to be back in 1998, that's 
 because we have such games like Doom 3, FarCry or even yet, the true sequel to Half-Life itself, 
 Half-Life 2. Still, despite from the game being very old at the moment, it's still overall a very 
 fun game. On with the review, I'll use a simple: Graphics, Gameplay, Background and Overall Score 
 just to be clean and organized.
  
  Graphics: Now, if your speaking about present day, of course the graphics would be horrid. If your 
 talking about 1998-ish, the graphics are of course considered godly. Still, I'll admit it, the 
 graphics are yet still decent for such an old game. And of course, I'm more of the "Choose Gameplay, 
 than Graphics" type of gamer. I have more worries about Gameplay, Graphics are not something I'll 
 always focus on. Of course, it's proven a fact by almost every gamer, when graphics and gameplay 
 both combine to make a great team, it obviously makes a great game! This is what Half-Life did 
 back in the day, it had some of the best graphics seen, and yet, the gameplay was outstanding for 
 a First Person Shooter.
  
  Although some of the Scientists or Security Guards sounded a bit the same, well -- Exactly the same, 
 it's something you don't often worrie about too much. Of course it would have been nice to give 
 each and every single one of them a voice of their own for realism, but like I said, it's one of 
 those moments where it just comes and passes quickly. The graphics of the models were quite detailed, 
 well at least it's known to be detailed in that kind of a year, that is! You can make up of some 
 bone-ish figures for the visuals, it was nice seeing life-life characters. Despite from them all 
 looking alike, they were all a bit unique in their very own ways.
  
  The water in this game would be considered good if you take a blast from the past, obviously it's 
 nothing like FarCry's water or even Half-Life 2's, but it's still decent. The textures and detail 
 in the models and other kinds of objects were all neat, nothing seemed out-of-place or no colors 
 were mixed together in an ugly scramble-like mess-up. Everything seemed just right, they were all 
 nicely created from scratch. Overall, the graphics for Half-Life would be considered some of the 
 best for the PC if your still taking that blast from the past, but as of now, they obviously wouldn't 
 stand a chance against today's games.
  
  Gameplay: My favorite part for Half-Life, not only the sequel, but the original, too. The gameplay 
 was something you wouldn't exepect, it's marvelous. Let's put it this way: It's practically a brand 
 new genre that includes the mix of Adventure, Puzzle and First Person Shooter.
  
  You'd expect: Run, Dodge, Aim, Shoot and Kill are the main objectives of this game. Of course they're 
 all included, because what would a FPS game be without them? But, Half-Life changed some of that 
 around. Not only are they improved, but they've also added in some nice thinking to do along the 
 way. There's several traps and puzzles in Black Mesa, you'll really need to put on your thinking 
 caps to get most of them right for the first time. Well, at least I did. I liked the idea, I enjoyed 
 all of it, though. This includes: Stacking up boxes to reach higher grounds, be in space and do 
 the moon jump to reach other far-away platforms Super Mario style or even placing some other objects 
 in a specific row to perfrom a certain act.
  
  This is what makes the game stand-out for being so fun, it still is this very day. Heck, I played 
 Half-Life mabye 2 weeks ago, I even gave Opposing Force a shot, it still felt fun despite from 
 it not using the greatest graphics around at present day.
  
  Background: Technically, your inside Black Mesa most of the time from the begining and so-on. Still, 
 you'll visit some other exotic areas. Let it be deep below the water, ontop of some mountain tops 
 or just outside in some canyons around Black Mesa's big playground, it's all nicely done. The terrain 
 is very realistic for such a game, and of course, FPS games have a great surrounding in every corner 
 since your playing through the world, your taking the role of Gordon Freeman, remember? Your the 
 one who's trapped inside Black Mesa who is trying to escape from Soldiers or Aliens and what-not, 
 your the one who's saving people's arses to freedom!
  
  The areas are all nicely done, it's just right I'd say. It keeps the sight nice and fresh, and 
 of course, repeative for other rounds of playing it from begining to end.
  
  Overall: Well, simply-put, Half-Life was and still is one of my favorite games. Not genre-wise, 
 but put all together -- I still love it. It's story was amazing, I actually enjoyed it's story a 
 bit more than what Half-Life 2 could offer. And, with all of that said, I'd recommend buying the 
 Platinum Edition to receive: Half-Life, Half-Life: Blue Shift, Half-Life: Opposing Force, Team 
 Fortress Classic and last, but not least, one of the greatest online games: Counter-Strike. They're 
 all old games at the moment, but what can you like more than the good ol' classics?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Freak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Does Half Life still warrant a purchase even though it came out in 1998? 
  
  
  In 1998 Valve released Half Life taking the computer gaming world by storm. After winning Game 
 of the Year from over 50 publications and spawning several expansion packs, Half Life is still 
 considered to be one of the best first person shooters ever made on the PC. 
  
  The game opens with you the innocent scientist Gordon Freeman on your way to work at the Black 
 Mesa research institute. Upon arriving you are instructed to put on your hazard suit (more on that 
 later) and get down to some test lab where a group of scientists are waiting for you. What happens 
 next is utter terror and confusion, one moment youre performing your daily work activities, the 
 next moment an explosion occurs and terrifying monsters begin to appear from a portal to what seems 
 like an alternate dimension. Once you regain consciousness the game is on and its up to you to 
 find out what happened to the black mesa research complex. The story in Half Life is remarkable, 
 offering up new and interesting twists around every corner which is suprising since a majority 
 of first person shooters today feature the bland save the world scenario. 
  
  Half Life controls like your typical first person shooter, you use the w, s, a, d keys for movement 
 and you also get a nifty flashlight attachment for those dark corridors. The weaponry is Half Life 
 is suprisingly varied, youll start off with a crowbar which you can use to bludgeon both the enemies 
 and the environment. By the end of the game youll be using rocket launchers, crossbows, and even 
 some assorted alien weapons.
  An important gameplay element in Half Life is the hazard suit which protects you from both physical 
 and chemical damage. As you take injury from the bizarre aliens of Half Life your hazard suits 
 power levels will drop forcing you to find recharge stations positioned strategically throughout 
 the games many environments. There are however some drawbacks to Half Lifes gameplay, for one 
 youll often have to solve some tricky jumping puzzles which become frustrating since youll be 
 playing Half Life entirely in the first person. Another small shortcoming is the fact that Half 
 Life requires you to navigate through some tricky swimming puzzles which can become disorienting. 
 
  
  Enemy intelligence plays a large role in Half Life, since the game came out in 1998 you would probably 
 expect to find the enemy AI to be sub-par but surprisingly the many different foes you encounter 
 are highly intelligent. Marines run around the environment trying to flank you while crouching 
 for cover behind rocks as they reload their weapons. Alien swarms offer up a relenting assault 
 of different attacks never allowing you any breathing room in the confines of the Black Mesa. Its 
 all entertaining and fun at the same time.
  
  An interesting aspect of Half Life is the fact that there are no levels in the game, everytime 
 you reach a new part of the Black Mesa research institute the game will pause and the words loading 
 will appear for a few short seconds and the game will continue. Another detail to point out is 
 the absence of cut scenes in the game. Its told entirely through the eyes of you Gordon Freeman 
 which adds to the already immerse feel of the game. 
  
  As you can tell Half Life isnt your typical first person shooter, it contains a lot of scary moments 
 in the game. One minute you can be walking down a corridor minding your own business and unexpectedly 
 a security guard will be flung through the wall by an alien grunt. These hair raising moments would 
 be worthless without having the superb audio to back it up. As climatic as Half Lifes sound is 
 it does have some minor flaws which keep it from perfection. For one youll often meet up with 
 numerous security guards in Half Life which all contain the exact same look, voice, and appearance. 
 Also, some of the scientist voice acting is repetitive but in the end these are only minor quibbles 
 once you finally play this game. 
  
  The only real drawback of Half Life is the heavily scripted gameplay, once you finish the game 
 youll have little incentive to beat it a second time since youll be able to effectively remember 
 what happened at certain moments of the game. Half Life is a reasonably long game as far first 
 person shooters go. I clocked in at fourteen hours on the default difficulty setting. Half Life 
 also contains numerous mods, such as the wildly popular Counter Strike and Team Fortress Classic 
 add-ons which are still played even today.
  
  When it comes down to it Half Life is still a very impressive game. The graphics, gameplay, and 
 sound all add up to a very unique and fun experience that shouldnt be missed.
  
  Pros: 
  
  + Excellent visuals and sound
  + A non stop action ride from start to finish
  + Crowbar!
 
  + Man is it scary
  
  Cons:
  
  - Whats up with jumping puzzles?
  - Man is it scary
  - A little too scripted
  
  Perplexing:
  
  ? Unless youve got a super 
 computer you probably wont be playing Half Life 2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dessna32
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The games that have tried to make graphics and sound and life-like at the same time have always 
 failed. Doom was fun but without taking a lot of damage when falling, along with little sound it 
 failed to make life-like and stuck with innovative. That is where half-life comes in. It is fun, 
 addictive, and life-like. You have to kill monsters without always using a gun. Water is slippery 
 and annoying. You face soldiers with just as much health as you, and they can flank you from all 
 sides. This game plays great, for the most part. You can die VERY easily besides that half-life 
 is the best game around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinykian
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  6 years after Half-Life was released, I finally bought the game at a very cheap price. And boy, 
 am I glad that I've bought this game! Half-Life not only provides me with the ultimate gaming experience, 
 it puts me in the shoes of Gordan Freeman and let me experience the thrills and scares- first hand. 
 In my opinion, age certainly has not caught up with Valve's Half-Life; it looks good, feels good 
 and never fails to make me jump out of my skin whenever a headcrab lunges at me (Gordan Freeman, 
 i mean) . This game is a must-get; I'm sure many people will agree with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodger26
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  This story is absolutly amazing. It's so facinating and crazy! It's in this scay world of an alien 
 invasion but like that was not enough, they thru in a corrupt government (i love government conspiricies 
 lol) . The gameplay is absolutaly wonderful on this game. Easy to control, fun to play. Just like 
 every other game in the series (counter-strike, deathmatch...)
  
  The graphics were a dissapointment but what can you do? It was made in 1998, so the graphics were 
 actually advance for that time.
  
  A fun, great, epic game that you collection cannot miss. Get it at all costs!!! I still play it 
 to this day. And it's still better than Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2004 12:37 am PT
Review:  It is hard to refer to one particular aspect of Half-Life; in fact, every detail is done just well 
 enough resulting in an amazing experience. Moreover, it is probably the best shooter ever. The 
 graphics for its time were done well and so was the sound. The story is basic but compelling and 
 is told exceptionally well due to its technical aspects being in check, its fantastic level-design, 
 and its outstanding AI. It has the right combination of scripted and unscripted events to keep 
 one guessing and glued to the chair. The Xen level, however, is the only flawed aspect of the game 
  and it is not so much flawed as it is annoying as it contains a ridiculously long and unforgiving 
 jumping puzzle. However, most of the single-player game is near-perfect and although none of Half-Lifes 
 features particularly stands out, they all seem to gel seamlessly thus providing a truly revolutionary 
 FPS. 
  
  Indeed it is the seamlessness that is championed in Half-Life as glitches, cut-scenes and other 
 various interruptions are thankfully not present in the game. Furthermore, it is refreshing to 
 play a FPS game without constantly viewing the main character in a third-person perspective via 
 cut-scenes etc as it takes the gamer out of the game  Half-Life avoids this altogether.
  
  On another note, the value of the game is extremely high. Not only does one get a relatively long 
 and fulfilling experience in its single-player mode, but one also gets an incredible multiplayer 
 experience. On top, one will get access to many other multiplayer games from the mod-community 
 such as Counter-Strike, Team Fortress, Day of Defeat, and Natural Selection in addition to the 
 classic Deathmatch.
  
  Half-Life was a fantastic game and still is a fantastic game. It revolutionised the FPS genre as 
 it became the standard for comparison. Hopefully the sequel will meet all expectations as it has 
 rather big shoes to fill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluejays580
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2004 4:31 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so I hope you like it. NOTE: I am writing this after I played and beat 
 half-life 2, and a half-life 2 review will come soon. 
  
  In 1998, a revolutionary game was created. It was called half-life. You played the role of a scientist 
 named Gordon Freeman that worked at a research facility called  Black Mesa. Thinking that it 
 was a normal day, Gordon went to work (He should of called in sick) . 
  So there he is, going to work thinking its just going to be a normal average day on the job. He 
 gets onboard the train and takes an incredibly long and boring (very boring) ride to his working 
 place. Everything seems as usually, scientists conducting experiments, security guards pigging 
 out on donuts, that kind of stuff. 
  When you get off the train, you are pretty much free to go wherever you want. The problem is, when 
 you try to talk to your fellow scientist friends, they either tell you to go away or ask  Arent 
 you supposed to be in the test chamber? You might get mad at them but dont worry, most of them 
 will die anyways. So anyways, after venturing around for awhile you will soon find yourself in 
  the test chamber. Ah yes, isnt it nice to conduct a huge experiment when scientists are complaining 
 about equipment not working properly. 
  
  When you start the experiment, you are told a few tasks to do around this giant rotating thing. 
 The task that starts it all is to push something into it that will change earth. As you push this 
 container into it, you open a portal to an alien planet Xen. Many dangerous and unique creatures 
 are then brought onto earth, causing giant chaos. This all leads into huge action, making this 
 game just so special. 
  
  Your journey then leads into a fight for survival. Go around Back Mesa fighting monsters, helping 
 scientists, and even fighting your own kind. Yes your own kind! Fellow scientists call the military 
 in to help out and rescue them. Then when they arrive, you find out there here to eliminate everything 
 they see, even you! So I guess youre a busy man.
  
  To wrap it all up, Half-life is a must own. Actually I would say its the best game ever! Its 
 just too much fun to kill monsters, solve puzzles, and be involved in an awesome story! Also, theres 
 tons of weapons and equipment to fight with, and many levels and worlds to explore! Another thing 
 that keeps you interested in the game is a mysterious man carrying a briefcase. You see him many 
 times in the game, but dont really get to interact with him until the end of the game. 
  
  Like stated before, this is the best game ever and its over 50 game of the year awards proves 
 it. This game fully deserves my 10, since thats what I think such a masterpiece deserves. Anyone 
 should get this and if you really get into it, play its expansion packs for other views on the 
 story. Its worth even more with its free modifications. Counter-Strike for example, is the most 
 popular online action game in the world, and if you get sick of half-life, this should keep you 
 entertained for a very long time! There are also more mods like day of defeat and team fortress. 
 
  
  You have just finished reading my review about the best game ever. 10! Thats what it deserves! 
 A 10!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyHarry26
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2004 12:33 am PT
Review:  The scenario in this game is one of the best ever! This compelling story can compete with most 
 of the top list movies out there. Besides that this game is ingenious. The gameplay is magical 
 (yes magical that's the word!) . Moving around the facility is very easy. Each step of the game 
 demands you to use your brain and get past several obstacles. There's always a way out but it may 
 not be obvious so caution!
  
  Every moment in this game was a delight. It's fun to run around the complex and try to complete 
 the mission, it's easy to play and to understand. How could anyone not want to play this game? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegorum
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2004 8:15 pm PT
Review:  The end of the 1990's has to be one of those benchmark eras's that will stand out in the history 
 of gaming. Like the 1970's that introduced playing games on your television sets, the 90's had 
 the elements of the internet, a good economy, computer technology innovations (to name a few) that 
 allowed gaming to breakthrough its threshold and go beyond many people imaginations and expectations. 
 Half Life is one game out of a very few that pushed the industry forward and caused many sleepless 
 nights of blurry eyed fun. It's usage of a great storyline simultaneously giving the player a feeling 
 of freedom to interact with the environment wasn't used before in quite the same way. Couple this 
 with Graphics, lighting and sound that pushed the quality envelope at the time to new heights and 
 you get a classic game worthy of going back to, and one that will be hard to improve on. It is 
 also noteworthy to mention the success valve had in creating a new character and story that were 
 good enough to make me actually care how the story ended up without any existing background story 
 to barrow from. The actual story is pretty simple: Take a mid-20's scientific genius, place him 
 in a dire situation and give the player the controls to get him out of his precarious situation. 
 On the way to salvation our hero encounters monsters, zombies and overzealous Special Forces units. 
 There is even that element of mystery throughout the game seeing that odd spectator in the suit 
 and briefcase calmly watching you for a minute and then just as calmly walking off camera to someplace 
 just out of your reach. Its an easy story to relate to, not because we are all genius scientists 
 in harms way, but because we welcome the idea of being one as long as we don't have to actually 
 get shot at or get out of our comfy chairs.
  
  But don't take my word for it: Valve has produced at least 7 spin off games based on the 
  storyline 
 or the character and game engine concepts that came from Half Life, these are:
  
  1: Half-Life: Opposing Force
  2: Half-Life: Blue Shift
  3: Half-Life: Counter-Strike
  4: 
 Counter-Strike: Condition Zero
  5: Team Fortress Classic
  6: Team Fortress 2: Brotherhood of Arms
  7: Day of Defeat
  
  Then there is Half Life 2 to 
 consider and all that will eventually come from its new engine. Its a shame that most gamers who 
 have not played Half Life will not pick it up because so many titles, that have taken elements 
 from the original Half Life, have come since. These newer titles might look a little better (and 
 probably have load times twice as long) but its good to know than many of them probably wouldnt 
 exist had it not been for this original. Thankfully Valve bundled the original half Life with Half 
 Life 2 (which is a bit too short) so that when everyone finished HL2 they might have a chance to 
 see where all the hype came from :)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraGhost82
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2004 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is a revolutionary game. It had non stop game play till the finish, provided a good challange 
 without getting the player too frustrated, and was pretty fun.
  
  The story is simple. A scientist named Gordan freeman is in an experiment that goes wrong, and 
 now must fight against Aleins and Soldiers set out to cover this up in order to survive.
  
  It wasn't a Doom clone in anyway, not a non-stop shooting fest, but still was very action packed 
 the further you got through the game.
  
  The graphics, for the time, were good, but could've been better. The same with it's sound, great, 
 but not perfect. It was just fun.
  
  But what I liked a lot, was the multiplayer. I don't mean counter-strike, I mean proper Half-life 
 multiplayer, with good maps, and characters from the game. It is only Deathmatch, but it's still 
 fun to kill other players using Half-Life weapons and playing on some cool maps.
  
  All in All, A great game and well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2004 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this review after Halflife 2 has just come out even tho i have not played it yet. 
 Well this game is amazing, its old but still never gets old because of the hundreds of mods on 
 the interent for it. Thats what makes the game so fun, the amount of different mods for it and 
 different gameplay modes you will never get bored and it never gets old. The graphics are a bit 
 outdated but that doesnt matter because of the such fantastic gameplay. I recommend this game to 
 people who like multiplayer but im guessing everybody has this game anyway, well you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 11:28 pm PT
Review:  "Good morning, and welcome to the Black Mesa Transit System..."
  
  So everyone who hasn't played Half-Life is just saying "What the heck is this game? And why does 
 everyone think it's the greatest FPS ever?" Well, there can be a lot of answers to that question, 
 and I'm here to answer it for you.
  
  So I bet you're just saying to yourself "Well, he probably hasn't played many FPS's". Well you 
 would be wrong, in fact, I have probably played most if not all the really good FPS's such as Goldeneye, 
 Perfect Dark, Halo 1 and 2, Doom 1, 2, and 3, All the quakes, all the Unreals, Duke Nukem 3D, Deus 
 Ex, Battlefields, Rainbow Sixes, Tribes, Clive Barker's Undying, Marathon, Counter-Strike, Far 
 Cry, you name it. Even after playing all those classics, I can tell you that Half-Life stands on 
 top of all of them. This is easily one of my favorite games of all time, and you should play it 
 if you haven't.
  
  So this story starts very slow and strangely. You don't start with any weapon or meet any enemies 
 for the first half-hour. This is the reason that a lot of people (including myself) didn't continue 
 to play, because they thought it was boring. Luckily, my friend at school told me to continue playing 
 it, it's worth it. And indeed it is.
  
  You're this guy named Gordon Freeman, an MIT graduate who works in an underground military base 
 in New Mexico called "Black Mesa". You are a theoretical physicist who does research in the "Anomalous 
 (not normal) Materials" sector, where you do research and tests. It seems that Black Mesa has discovered 
 teleportation. Anyway, it's an average day of work for you, and you're running late. But he finds 
 out that today was the day of the big experiment, where you're going take this crystal (from an 
 alien world called Xen) and put it under a high radiation beam and see what happens. Well, it seems 
 that something went wrong, the whole base is screwed up, and there are aliens everywhere. You don't 
 know how this happened or why, but all you care about is getting out. One mission, one objective: 
 Get out of Black Mesa alive. Luckily, your scientist friends said that the military is coming to 
 wipe out all the aliens. But they didn't just come to wipe only aliens out, they came to wipe out 
 everything and everyone, even you. The goverment wants Black Mesa destroyed with no witnesses. 
 And who's that guy with the briefcase that keeps staring at me anyhow?!?!
  
  Gameplay 10 - This is the first game that has no actual campaigns or levels for you to beat. It's 
 one giant world, one big facility. There's a big arsenal of weapons that you will wield throughout 
 the game, from a shotgun to snarks (little bugs that you throw at soldiers which eat them alive) . 
 The game's environment changes a lot. You will never feel like you were in the same place as before 
 (unlike Doom 3) . Also, there are no cutscenes; Everything is in game and interactive, which makes 
 it seem like you're actually in the game, rather than Gordon.
  
  Graphics 9 - The graphics aren't that good, but they were ok back in the day. If you play Half-Life 
 Source (available on Steam right now) , then it looks pretty good. But graphics don't really matter 
 in the game, since you kind of forget about them later on.
  
  Value 10 - This game has so many mods. You can play Counter-Strike (a tactical team-based FPS which 
 plays as terrorists vs. counter-terrorists) , Day of Defeat (a point-capturing shooter based in 
 WWII) , Team Fortress Classic (a team-based game that has you selecting classes for different weapons 
 and abilities, and you either play base-capture or CTF) , or others such as Sven-Coop, The Specialists, 
 Natural Selection, and many other fan-made games. It will last you a while.
  
  Tilt 10 - Never have I played a game with such a well presented plot and amazing interactivity. 
 This game changed the genre, and is quite unforgettable.
  
  Pros: Interactivity, story, presentation, weapons, enemies, MODs, music, voices, AI, the G-Man.
 
  
  Cons: Graphics, starts out very slow, and Xen.
  
  Even today this game is very playable and enjoyable. Please don't stop playing because of the beginning, 
 it gets so much better as you play on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tatsumaruu
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 20, 2004 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Half life revolutionary hardly this is one of those games that is so impressive in the first 10 
 minutes but fails to shine in most areas. considering i score this game so low im going to review 
 this game a little simply. the graphics were brilliant the best of there time but that cant hide 
 the fact that half life has weak gameplay you jump to a ledge shoot a bug watch a non interactive 
 set piece then witness some brilliant AI and get killed but later find out it was all scripted 
 and the next time you'll say right this time i'll dodge the grenade that the guards allways fire 
 then i'll press that button to kill the boss sounds exiteing doesent it. luckily half life has 
 some good points the weapons all have great kick behind them and a shotgun that feels like a rocket 
 launcher but everytime you find something good it throws another bad moment at you like the story 
 for instance its completely worthless you run through the game with the motivation that your stuck 
 in a lab thats had a temporal flux? and bug aliens called the xen have come through and want to 
 destroy us all combined with characters you will mainly use as cover from the enemy or whack them 
 in the face with a crowbar before they have finished what they have to say just makes half life 
 an average game that you will only remember because of the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddie9027361
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2004 11:37 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, i'd like to say that i'm reviewing this game from what i remember of my thoughts 
 from the first time i played it, 6 years ago. Not my impressions from when i finished it half an 
 hour ago.
  
  I had just read a review of it in my local PC games magazine. It got 98% and said that it would 
 redefine the FPS genre. I bought it, honestly not expecting to see a game of that quality. When 
 i first booted it up, I ran through the training doing all the jumping, crouching, shooting, and 
 swimming before i played the game. I went clicked on new game and was surprised at where i found 
 myself. after no cinematic, no story being told to me, just a quick load i was in a train in the 
 Black Mesa Coorporation. I looked out the window and saw the police working on the power box, the 
 scientist running along and the machinery at work. The graphics were excellent and i later found 
 out that the Gameplay matched. Everything in the game world clicked together seamlessly (with the 
 exception of Xen) and it made the perfect gaming experience... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkrukkert
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2004 6:38 pm PT
Review:  a few days ago I firstly played it until the end Ive played it years ago but Ive never finished 
 the game until a week ago I started playing it again cause it fled that I have to finish this great 
 game (difficultly level: Difficult/Hard) in the first few area's of the game I had a low ammo but 
 that's the cause of the difficulty level, Ive experienced as a de-ja-vu cause Ive played it a 
 couple times before so I knew the whole road to walk and every puzzle until the 3 headed monster 
 that's sticks from a hole in the floor. once Ive maked it alive from that area, then began the 
 un-known experience for me the. Im not planning to create a big walkthrough for this game so i 
 just tell you that the puzzles are simple and great. the biggest problem of finishing this great 
 game is the ending monster its like a great baby but its damn hard to defeat him/it and quite frustrating 
 
  
  the graphics were outdated but the game play was great and the character walks quite fast that 
 can cause some sickness! But I had no problem of that 2 concerns 
  
  overall is this one of the best games Ive played it is certainly al great game/experience that 
 you should play too 
  
  ---
  Ron Krukkert
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2004 3:05 pm PT
Review:  .. addictive and has a fantastic story to boot.
  
  First off, the graphics in HL were, for it's time, absolutly gorgeous. The game and many of it's 
 mods are still being widely played today, even though it's been out for 6 years. The game looks 
 great. The weapon models are great, the player models were great, for it's time. Although now they 
 don't look so great, especially compared to the HL2 player models. 
  
  The AI is pretty good. The Aliens are nothing special but the marines will take cover, through 
 grenades at you and try to flank you, making firefights more interesting cause if you take your 
 eye off one enemy for a split second, they next thing you know is you have a shotgun pointed at 
 you from behind. By that point it's too late.
  
  The levels have a lot of variety in them in how to progress. Sometimes you have to turn on a switch 
 or unlock something to move through, other times you have to do a little jumping puzzle over gaps 
 or with boxes and sometimes you have to just blast everything that movies.
  
  The storyline is fantastic. You are Gordon Freeman, a scientist that works at the Black Mesa Research 
 Facility. Your current project is top secret and your into a testing phaze.. during that test.. 
 something happens.. something goes frightfully wrong. Thats when all hell breaks loose. On top 
 of the current problems, the government decides to send in some marines to "mop up" and make sure 
 no one lives to tell the tale of what happened.
  
  There are scientists scattered throughout the place, some are lucky enough to survive the inital 
 problem and then some are even luckier are have survived the initial marine clean up. These scientists 
 can help you by unlocking areas for you. You also come across security guards, known as Barney, 
 he carries a pistol and will help fight against enemies as well as getting you into otherwise unaccessable 
 areas. 
  
  There are vechiles you get to move, they are nothing special but they do add some variety other 
 than running around shooting. Although Half Life is different from regular shooters in it's filled 
 with puzzles. Some of the BIG enemies you can't kill with your own normal weapons. So you have 
 to find other ways to get rid of them. At one part in the game, you can't.. you just have to sneak 
 around it so it doesn't hear you.
  
  This is one fantastic game that combines puzzle solving with FPS and is done perfectly. On top 
 of having this fantastic game, you also can download a LOT of different mods. There are some amazingly 
 great single player mods out there, as well as multiplayer ones. Some of the big multiplayer mods, 
 such as Team Fortress Classic, Day of Defeat, and the ever popular Counter-Strike. These mods extend 
 the live of Half Life a huge amount, altough the single player campaign of HL will take you a while 
 to get through. It's a long, yet very fun game and if you don't own it, you can pick it up for 
 a very cheap price now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Los9090
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2004 12:17 am PT
Review:  I didn't know what to think when I first tried this game. At the time this game came out, I only 
 owned the SNES so I never had played any game that was scary and dark. There are definatly moments 
 in the game that just bug you out and make you jump out of your skin. It was also the most difficult 
 game I had played since Zelda III because the only other shooter games I played were stuff like 
 Contra and T2 the Arcade Game.
  
  You gotta some how fight through to the surface after a nuclear disaster rocks this huge secret 
 facility and now all of a sudden, you gotta fight these freaky creatures that try to eat humans 
 and trying to solve puzzles and open doors because the facility is all haywire. The game definatly 
 is pretty graphic and deservingly so received the MA rating. Ha, there are moments in that game 
 that still stay with me, like when these two dudes get pulled into a ventilation shaft and then 
 you see blood and limbs fly out of the shaft. Its easy to be creeped out when you're looking for 
 something thinking that some thing could be watching you, waiting to pounce and kill you if it 
 can. In fact, an ex g-f bought this game and asked the clerk for the most violent game they had, 
 sounds kinda weird but at least she got a good game.
  
  The puzzles in this game is great. You need to be able to keep track of where you're going or your 
 going to get lost. Keep an eye out for health and ammo packs as in any type of these games. Its 
 a pretty intense game, so if you hate seeing blood, guts, and gore, try a game that won't freak 
 you out at night when you need to go to the bathroom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is considered by many the biggest leap in gameplay the first-person shooter (FPS) genre 
 has ever taken. Valve tweaked the typical FPS formula quite a bit to achieve a never-before-seen 
 level of immersiveness in the Black Mesa Research Facility. Firstly, the player always sees everything 
 through the eyes of the protagonist Gordon Freeman, even the non-interactive cut-scenes, and you 
 never hear Gordon talk. Secondly, instead of having levels, the game flows from one distinctive-looking 
 area to the next, which with a few exceptions can be backtracked. Thirdly, ammunition and health 
 can always be elegantlyfound near the places where one would expect to find them: health or shield 
 tanks near dangerous areas in labs, new weapons on dead bodies or by the alien experiment labs. 
 But there is more: the main strengths of Half-Life are numerous scripted events and neatly varying 
 puzzles. In fact, the scripted events and little puzzles are so varied that they carry the player 
 throughout the whole game by constantly delivering surprises, never letting Half-Life turn into 
 the repetitive shooting fest that is the plague of most action games. Half-Life invigorated the 
 biggest mod community in the world. The most infamous of the mods, terrorist-battling Counter-Strike 
 (1999) was released commercially and is still the most played multiplayer game on the Internet. 
 In addition shorter but just as enjoyable Half-Life single-player adventures dealing with same 
 events were released later: Opposing Force (2000) followed the Black Mesa catastrophy through the 
 eyes of one of the marines, and Blue Shift (2001) from the point of view of a security guard who 
 was working there.
  
  20/20 - Based on : 15 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Everything was decent for its time. Quake 2 engine.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY 
 - Half-Life is as easy to get into as any first-person shooter (which means very easy) .
  4/4 PACING - Supergood! The variety and good pacing made HL what it is.
  4/4 INNOVATION - Always 
 first-person view, no cut-scenes, no levels, weapons/medikits lie around logically, constant surprising 
 of the player -  immersion. And I didn't even mention the mod community.
  4/4 IMMERSION - Oh yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IokesI
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 26, 2004 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Half-life is the ultimate PC FPS experience. Not only is it immersive, but the presentation, the 
 style and solid gameplay all makes it a polished product.
  
  It's graphics (for that time) represented a convincing research facility with a lived in feel. 
 The first game to have a proper lip synching, IMO. Every environment is deatiled and unique in 
 it's own right.
  
  Crisp weapon sounds and ambient tones.
  
  Solid gameplay mechanics, which avoid every FPS cliche such as "floating" weaponary. Amazing enemy 
 artificial intelligence.
  
  A good 15-20 hours, even considering the fact that it has a lot of scripted sequence. Very replayable.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Dog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 9:13 am PT
Review:  With the release of Half Life 2 nearing I thought I'd attempt to write a short review of one of 
 the best first person shooters ever.
  
  Its hard trying to describe why Half Life is so good, so long after you first played it. But the 
 main reasons I believe why it is possibly the best FPS of all time are these:
  
  It introduced us to FPS that could have story, gameplay that envolved more than shooting demons 
 and variety.
  
  It introduced us to truely succesful mods and modding communities - Counter Strike, Day of Defeat, 
 Natural Selection to name but a few and 100s more smaller fan projects.
  
  It introduced me to online shooters and I've never looked back =)
  
  It set the standard for 
 first person shooters to come
  
  And its lead to Half Life 2 so it can happen all over again =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2004 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Half Life what a game. Let's talk about the immersion factor, what game has been made in the last 
 few years, that makes you feel like your right there in a lab experiment, that has gone terribly 
 wrong. The telepotation that you experience when everything goes to hell in a hand basket totally 
 rocks. Then there's the aftermath, can anyone say DOOM clone, no way this is much better than doom. 
 The interactivity with the npc's is really cool as well, although I wished the npc's would have 
 followed you better, they always seem to get stuck in a doorway or something, and you have to click 
 the follow button 3 or 4 times just to get them to follow you. However that's a minor nit pick, 
 the real story is just that, the Story in Half Life is deep. There are two different antangonist 
 groups the aliens that have teleported to your world, and the military that's trying to kill you 
 and all the scientists to cover up their mess. Or I almost forgot then there's the G man not sure 
 whether he is pro or con, even by the end your not really sure. Overall this game kicks butt for 
 a first person shooter, we need more fps's like Half Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2004 4:10 pm PT
Review:  A step towards revolution in the first person shooter genre has never come as close as Half-Life. 
 From the panic that is felt in the tightly calibrated intro to the mind bending confrontation with 
 the mysterious G Man, it all creates an atmosphere of destruction and deception. What it creates 
 is some of the best narratives the genre has ever seen, combined with an innovative albeit basic 
 allied control structure developes some of the best, if not THE best first person experience ever. 
 From new comers to the genre to the Wolf 3D and Doom weathered folk, there is much to be enjoyed 
 from this tightly, albeit linear, first person shooter. Valve broke down the doors and has allowed 
 development for games such as Halo and the NOLF series, it is still the benchmark for first person 
 shooters everwhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 24, 2004 4:29 pm PT
Review:  For its time, great use of its graphic engine, amazing atmosphere, great mix of indoor and outdoor 
 levels. The varied enemies still beat what you fight in most games of this type today, including 
 Far Cry. The single-player game is fun because the levels are so well-designed. When you fight 
 the marines, it will be a different type of battle than fighting the aliens. There is little to 
 complain about except that the alien worlds later in the game are less fun that the earlier earth 
 levels. The alien worlds have platform jumping and other nonsense. The add-on Opposing Force is 
 also worth playing for the long single-player game. There are several levels in the add-on that 
 may well beat the best levels in Half-Life. For single-player, there has yet to be a FPS to beat 
 Half-Life. Far Cry was a good try, but not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smaqaho
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2004 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game in its demo version back when I was in middle school. It simply blew me 
 away and this game is what got me into the world of PC gaming and PC's in general for that matter. 
 This game is the best first person shooter (FPS) ever and it is still played even to this day by 
 thousands around the world.
  
  The gameplay is simply top notch and is a god among mere mortals. It is true that this game does 
 hold your genuine FPS qualitites in that you go around through different levels following the path 
 of enemies and shooting them. The things that happen around you as you progress add a quality that 
 is unique to Half-Life. You could be going down a hallway through Black Mesa and see through an 
 office window a scientist begging for help just when an alien snatches him through an air condition 
 vent, hearing his screams as he is being eaten to death. This is an all too common experience to 
 see in Half-Life and it adds a nice comedic touch as well as a hint of realism. It shows that not 
 everyone from this government base isnt a gun-totting hot shot like yourself (Gordon Freeman) . 
 The weapon selection is top notch with many types of classes of weapons available from your basic 
 shotgun to a mini gun to your essential hand grenade. Movement is your basic WASD or arrow configuration 
 and is just like the rest of the FPS out there.
  
  The graphics were stupendous for their time and even hold up a tad with mods like counter-strike 
 and day of defeat. Not much to say here besides the graphics were revelutionary in what they have 
 done for the genre.
  
  The sound is awesome. I remember back in the demo build that you were shown that you could walk 
 under a fan as it swirled around. The point was to show that the sound of the fan changed with 
 the distance from which you were from it, a truely amazing thing at that time.
  
  Value should be an 11 but that isnt an option. Not only can you play this game and beat it using 
 different methods each time, but it comes with a pretty nice multi-player experience. The mods 
 that have come out make the Value on this game unmeasurable. The most famous mod of all time, Counter-Strike, 
 is built on the half-life engine and stays true to its predecessor. Not only is it the most famous, 
 but also the most played online game. Other notable online mods include Team Fortress Classic and 
 Day of Defeat. You could spend years playing and enjoying this online games.
  
  This game is simply a revolutionary expierence and at this time is not surpassed by anything. I, 
 along with the rest of the gaming community, cannot wait for Half-Life 2. It will be a huge success 
 even if it only accomplishes a fraction of what this game has!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drigam
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2004 8:26 am PT
Review:  Half-Life redesigned the FPS to become a state of the art balls to the wall submergence into what 
 it feels like to be stuck deep in an underground half destroyed inter-dimensionally altered secret 
 government facility surrounded by extremely aggressive agents and aliens with only a crowbar to 
 defend yourself. HELL YES.
  
  The graphics were amazing, the sounds intense and incited fear at every turn, the story was an 
 in depth ride into what has truly never been captured before in a game that sincerely wanted to 
 glue your face to the monitor until you either blasted your way out of Black Mesa leaving corpses 
 in your wake or became a corpse yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrids
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2004 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is a game that requires no introduction. For nearly six years now it has set the standard 
 for FPS's and continues to lead to new breakthroughs in the genre. It's mod community has grown 
 more than anyone could have possibly imagined, giving birth to some of the most popular games ever 
 including Counter-Strike, Day of Defeat, and Team Fortress Classic. Even now after the engine has 
 been surpassed for several years the game still comes out on top of many gamers personal lists.
 
  
  In terms of gameplay this game was on top when it first came out but it now feels generic and sluggish. 
 That doesn't mean it's unplayable to new gamers. I recently got one of my friends into PC gaming 
 and first introduced him to Half-Life. Two weeks later he had bought the other two expansions and 
 beat them before I had and is now eagerly awaiting HL2. 
  
  The graphics are now a little bland but with the HD pack that comes with Blue Shift the graphics 
 are now better than some games coming out now. The animations are still pretty stale but that doesn't 
 take away from the fun.
  
  Sound is pretty basic so there isn't much to say here. Guns sound like guns, explosions sound like 
 explosions, aliens sound creepy . . .
  
  Overall this game is a must have for anyone, new or old to the PC gaming scene. Even if you are 
 not a fan of the game itself the countless mods for it make it worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2004 9:39 am PT
Review:  Three words describe Half-Life, Best Game Ever! From the breathtaking start, to the very end Half-Life 
 delivers an unmatched experience, beyond words. Game has everything, but in one department where 
 it truly excels over other games is... well everything :-) I still remember playing for the first 
 time, how amazing the experience was, everything seems so real, the way story line progresses is 
 remarkable, and suspense often kills you.
  
  Gordon Freeman although never to be seen or spoke a single line in the game goes into one of the 
 most memorable characters of gaming history, this game defines what is meant to be an immersive 
 experience, where you really feel that you are in the game world going through it, constantly aware, 
 trying to peek around corners, experience is just amazing! Believe the hype folks, this game is 
 for real! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 91sonicsKILLERS
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2003 6:37 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS THEBEST GAME EVER!! It has been awarded over 50 publucations world wide. The bad news I don`t 
 know how to activate multplayer mode and content control is on so I can`t do it, damn it!! Oh well 
 I guess I will stick with single player. And always my friends always say the game sucks all because...... well 
 when ever you shoot at some one with a pistol alot of blood comes out of them even with one shoot 
 and even it`s not that much action-only on the SURFACE TENSHION my favorite level. beacause there 
 aren`t that much enemy`s in the game. The graphics: oh yeah:) !! Well only with the high defination 
 pack and if you have openGL on 1024x690 that is really good and later in the game you will see 
 lighting affects that are prety good. can`t wait till half-life2 comes out. Every pc gamer should 
 have it. See you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 12, 2003 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life has given us many mods to play with, such as Counter-Strike, Team Fortress Classic, and 
 Firearms, and all of them are very good mods. But try to imagine... without Half-Life, none of those 
 mods would even exist. Without Half-Life, Counter-Strike would be nothing. Without Half-Life, people 
 wouldn't even be playing and having fun with Team Fortress Classic. Without Half-Life, the FPS 
 genre wouldn't have taken the "revolutionary step." That is right, Half-Life is the only game to 
 take such a step towards the right direction. Many FPS publishers and developers will learn alot 
 from Half-Life.
  
  Released back in 1998, Half-Life wasn't just another FPS. It was more than an FPS. It was an all-out 
 deathmatch action FPS, along with some puzzles and strategies that you needed to solve and do using 
 your logical mind. Those aspects made Half-Life, and one of the trillions of reasons why it was 
 so revolutionary for FPS's.
  
  If you played the game on any edition besides the Steam edition, the graphics hurt Half-Life the 
 most. They are completely outdated and do not give Half-Life the "feel" it needed to be so successful 
 in graphics. Back then, everyone moved up into the more realistic graphic feel, and not the outdated 
 kind. With that said, Half-Life goes to show you that it is also scary too, so don't expect some 
 simple monsters just popping out of places... because they pop out of places you wouldn't even imagine 
 them popping out, so you need to be ready if you don't want to get scared.
  
  Half-Life also has online multi-player deathmatch, much like Counter-Strike, but with no objectives. 
 From there, your put into a level from whatever server you join, and you continue playing killing 
 pretty much whoever you see. It can sometimes get havoc, but that's how deathmatch works. I strongly 
 suggest that you get through the single-player first, before thinking about playing people online.
 
  
  Half-Life also comes with mods that you can be able to download without any problem. There are 
 official created mods, and un-official created mods made by fans of the genre or whatever. You 
 can download them at no cost if you have Half-Life, or you can just continue playing Half-Life 
 deathmatch.
  
  The enemy A. I. in the single-player mode are extremely smart. Human opponents such as the marines 
 actually take cover behind objects. They also logically throw grenades at corners you get stuck 
 in. They also call for back-up when in trouble, and use whatever they can to defeat you. Other 
 enemies such as aliens and so forth also try to attack you, and use their powers against you. They're 
 not as smart as the human enemies, but they still provide a challenge when put on "Hard" mode.
 
  
  Overall, Half-Life isn't just another FPS, it is one of the best to come in quite a while. Not 
 only that, it does have the qualifications to become one of the greatest games of all-time. It 
 has that much potential and does exactly what you need it to do. The graphics are surely outdated, 
 and the single-player probably won't be played once you beat it the first time, but it is truly 
 enjoyable of what it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunk4thSurvivor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 14, 2003 11:40 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME KICKZ ARSE!!! EVERYONE GET IT NOW. IF YOU HAVE JUST HEARD OF IT, YOU MUST EITHER BE A 
 NEWBIE OR SOMEONE THAT JUST DOESNT PLAY VIDEOGAMES.
  
  OK TO THE REVIEW....
  The gameplay for this game is awesome this game was innovative and was incredibly incredible. The 
 graphics are at its time were kick ace! they still are decent nowadays and that game was made 4 
 years ago or so (date is september 2003 right now) and i loved to storyline. storylines are a big 
 part in games and this one was a big fit. Gordon Freeman is kind of a wierd dorky lookin character 
 but its all good. THe weapons are bomb and extremely fun to play with. THe AI is pretty good to, 
 if you shoot they look around and hunt you down. its not stupid like one of those AI games that 
 if you shoot them they stay there not doing anything. The though of being warped beyond anotehr 
 demension in outerspace is awesome. this game is and was innovating. i am just waiting for Half-Life 
 2. That game will own any game in existance (besides Resident Evil) but still. this game is awesome 
 and i own every Half-Life expansion. From Opposing force, Counter-strike, to Blue Shift (which blue 
 shift stank) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPolitics
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2003 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The game that evolutionized the PC game market. Half-Life is the known to be the best PC game EVER. 
 With the hundreds of mods and expansions, Half-Life lives on. Half-Life has it all. The Best storyline, 
 the best graphics (At its time) , the best gameplay experience, best sound, etc. I still today play 
 this game, almost five years later. If you do not have Half-Life then go out and buy the platiunm 
 edition NOW!!! You won't be sorry. I can't possibly give Half-life or its many expansions less 
 then a 10.0. Play it and you'll know why. With Half-Life 2 fully announced, Half-Life will continue 
 to traditionalize the PC game market. With the dozens of screenshots I've seen of Half-Life 2 it 
 looks like Valve will pull off yet another killer game. Valve has been working on Half-Life 2 for 
 almost five years now, and it really shows of in quality. So while waiting for Half-Life 2, enjoy 
 the totally awesome Half-Life Platiunm collection of Half-Life. I sure did. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
