-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Halo 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halo2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good multiplayer variety.
 Included map editor lets players make their own battlegrounds.
 Decent single-player campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gamepad users get potentially unfair advantage in multiplayer with auto-aim.
 Graphics are unimpressive by today's standards.
 Poor single-player storyline with unsatisfying cliff-hanger ending.
 Arbitrary differences between silver and gold users.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 2,132 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Bungie Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     May 31, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Halo 2 for Vista is a solid game that probably won't appeal to anyone who's played any recent high-profile 
 PC shooters. 

  Halo 2 was released on the Xbox back in 2004, and as you're probably aware of by now, it was a 
 huge success. The first-person shooter added online multiplayer to the proceedings, and despite 
 a universally reviled cliff-hanger ending, it was really something special on the Xbox. Three years 
 later, it's now available as one of the first Vista-only PC games. It's still easy to see why this 
 game was so loved on consoles in its day, but when you put it in direct comparison with recent 
 PC shooters, it loses a ton of its appeal, making it best suited for Halo fans who want a good 
 way to play or make custom maps.  

          While the Xbox 360 kids will be able to finish the fight in September, PC owners are just 
 now getting to experience the lackluster storyline of Halo 2.     

  The single-player campaign in Halo 2 isn't particularly lengthy, and it should take the average 
 player 10 hours or less to crawl through on its default difficulty setting. The story starts you 
 out as the Master Chief, the intrepid space marine that blew apart the Halo ring, a devastating 
 galaxy-destroying weapon, in the first game, much to the dismay of the Covenant, a group of alien 
 races who regard the ring as a religious artifact that will send them on "the great journey." The 
 plot of the second game deals with the Covenant attempting to go on this great journey using another 
 Halo ring, called Delta Halo. But there's plenty of political upheaval going on in the Covenant 
 ranks, making it tricky all around. Add in a Covenant invasion of Earth, and you've got all the 
 pieces required to throw these factions together again for another round of fighting -- though since 
 some of the Covenant races will be fighting each other, too, it's often easier to just run past 
 all of the action. Even though the hour count for completing the campaign is already low, at times 
 the game feels like it's dragging on, repeating the same corridors and same enemies a little too 
 frequently. Toss in a couple of extremely underwhelming boss fights, and you've got a pretty solid 
 campaign, with some good vehicle sequences to break up the first-person action, but it's also one 
 that feels like it could have been a lot better.  

  The multiplayer side of Halo 2 is the part that still gets attention to this day, and it translates 
 to the PC fairly directly. The game has support for 16 players. Halo's multiplayer moves relatively 
 slow when compared to other popular shooters, giving it a more methodical, tactical feel. You really 
 need to know the capabilities of all your weapons to succeed with any regularity, as at any moment 
 you'll be able to toss grenades, fire one of your two weapons, or close in for a melee attack, 
 which satisfyingly kills instantly if you hit someone from behind. Death comes quickly if you're 
 left exposed for long, as your shield drains quickly and takes some time to recharge. This, too, 
 forces you to play somewhat carefully.  

  There are plenty of game types built into Halo 2, and these games work on any of the 23 included 
 maps. Aside from standard deathmatch, called slayer here, most of the modes are team games, like 
 capture the flag, team slayer, and so on. There are also a ton of built-in variants for the modes, 
 such as team shottysnipers, which arms every player with a shotgun and a sniper rifle and removes 
 all the other weapons on the map, or rockets, which is a game of slayer with only rocket launchers. 
 All this variety is nice, but it can also get supremely confusing, because you can make your own 
 variants, too. What, exactly, is RumbleSWAT X? The game doesn't offer any immediate clues, so in 
 some cases you'll just have to jump in and find out for yourself.  

  As a Games for Windows-branded game, Halo 2 has full support for the Xbox 360 controller. While 
 the game plays just fine with a mouse and keyboard, playing with a controller is a bit closer to 
 the original console experience, right down to force-feedback support. This creates some really 
 weird and potentially unbalanced trade-offs in multiplayer. By default, a player with a mouse will 
 be able to turn more quickly and, if that player is skilled, more accurately than a gamepad user. 
 Gamepad players can increase the right-stick sensitivity to turn faster, but they also get another 
 benefit that feels downright dirty. Like the console version, the PC game employs a certain amount 
 of auto-aim when you're using a gamepad. This makes sticking to other players for up-close shotgun 
 blasts or melee attacks significantly easier with the gamepad, and there doesn't appear to be any 
 way to disable it or even detect that another player is using a pad. After pumping up the gamepad's 
 sensitivity, we found ourselves doing more damage when armed with a gamepad, which makes the two 
 control schemes feel unbalanced, is sort of crazy when you consider how tournament-focused the 
 current Halo 2 Xbox scene is these days.  

  On the Xbox, Halo 2 introduced an innovative server finder, known as matchmaking. With matchmaking, 
 you'd create a party, select a game type, and hit go. It would then match you and anyone else in 
 your party up with similarly skilled players. The PC version of the game maintains a few of these 
 concepts, but it also offers a standard server browser, which works better and faster when it comes 
 to quickly selecting a server and getting into a game. Additionally, the game doesn't appear to 
 keep track of any player rankings.  

  Halo 2 is the first game out there with support for the PC version of Xbox Live, the console's 
 pay-to-play online service. There are two levels: a free silver level and a paid gold tier. The 
 game comes with a free month of gold access, or if you already have an Xbox Live account, you can 
 log in using your e-mail address and password. The split between silver and gold on the console 
 makes some form of sense -- if you pay for gold, you can play online games; if you're silver, you 
 can't. Of course, that sort of tactic wouldn't work on the PC, where the standards for free online 
 multiplayer are firmly entrenched, so Microsoft has made some seemingly arbitrary limits for silver 
 members on the PC. Headset-based voice chat is available to all users, which is nice. Silver members 
 are limited to using the server browser to find games, while gold members can hit a "quick match" 
 button to get into a game quickly. This button has a habit of throwing you on empty gold tier servers, 
 and the server browser works better anyway, so this is hardly a reason to sign up. It's also worth 
 noting that one of the gold tier abilities will be to play against Xbox 360 players in select games, 
 but Halo 2 does not have this sort of cross-platform support. Lastly, the game will only let you 
 get multiplayer achievements if you have a gold account.  

  Achievements were an unexpectedly popular feature on the Xbox 360 that give you a "gamerscore," 
 and each retail game supporting the service has up to 1,000 points to earn. Halo 2 one of the first 
 PC games to offer achievement points, and they'll go right onto your Xbox 360 Live account if you 
 already have one. In Halo 2, you'll earn points for completing each level in single-player, but 
 most of the better achievements are on the multiplayer side, where you'll get points for ending 
 someone's energy-sword killing spree, killing four people quickly, running someone over, jacking 
 a vehicle, and so on.  

          The Halo 2 multiplayer offers a lot of options, but it's apparently missing the one option 
 that matters: disabling auto-aim for gamepad users.     

  The visuals in Halo 2 aren't going to win any awards. Yes, it certainly looks better than its Xbox 
 counterpart, but that's mostly due to antialiasing and support for resolutions up to 1680x1050. 
 On a fairly modern machine that bypasses the minimum requirements, things like fog in the single-player 
 will have a pretty heavy impact on the frame rate. The multiplayer is also much more demanding 
 than the single-player, which can also reduce your frame rate. But beyond the technical limitations 
 involved in trying to make an old game look, well, less old, the game does have a sharp art style 
 that still works. The early battles on Earth look nice, and your time spent on alien ships and 
 worlds reveals a great attention to detail, making each environment look like a cohesive part of 
 a sci-fi universe and not just a thrown-together clump of vaguely futuristic textures. The sound 
 effects also do a good job of driving this point home, with plenty of good ambient sounds and quality 
 weapon noises. The single-player campaign uses music in specific situations, usually around plot 
 points, and the music is dramatic and appropriate in all the ways you'd want a sci-fi movie's score 
 to be.  

  While the game has maintained a great deal of popularity on the Xbox, Halo 2 feels like something 
 of a relic when you put it out as a 2007 PC game. The single-player campaign is interesting, and 
 the cliff-hanger doesn't feel so horrific when you consider that Halo 3 is going to be hitting 
 consoles to finish the story in just a few months. The multiplayer side is fun, too, but all of 
 it feels overshadowed. The PC has more than its fair share of amazing shooters that blow Halo 2 
 away in every possible way, making this one best suited for Halo fans that want an easy way to 
 play custom maps. However, even those fans are just as likely to be put off by the imbalance between 
 the game's two controller options, making it a bit of a no-win situation, despite its high production 
 quality.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (109 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I strongly recommend you stay away from this game if you are familiar with a lot of FPS shooters. 
 This game is just another run and gun in the hallway shooter. 
  
  To start off, the story plot seems to be totally different. In the game, you play between Master 
 Chief and a Convenant interchanging through missions. However, the story seems dull compared to 
 the first Halo. You don't feel a sense of isolation anymore PLUS there's a new Halo, which is really 
 too cliche for a story to repeat something again.
  
  The gameplay is all fantastic. Basically it's just one of those hallway shooters where you shoot 
 your enemy and run, pick up guns and power ups. The game appeals to the consoles more only because 
 the controllers suit for a boring run and gun game and it's just too easy. The feel of the character 
 is very weird. You don't really feel the weapons full potential power or weakness.
  
  Graphics wise, it's good. Halo 2 's visuals have been optimised for the PC very well but then again, 
 all flash no substance. Stay away from this one, save your money and buy a great game called Call 
 Of Duty 4, because Halo 2 isn't worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenh6696
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  great multiplayer, ok campaign, but I would prefer it on Xbox because of the bigger screen, even 
 though the PC controls are way better than the xbox one.
  I'd advise to finish the campaign, building your skills, then challenge the pros and me on multiplayer. 
 A great development is the dual weilding thingy. it gives you a wide variety of weapons. I personally 
 like to use plasma rifle and SMG, because the rifle is good for striping shields, and SMG for the 
 killing. I also like the hijacking. it's cool on multiplayer, and even better when you kick an 
 opponent out a Banshee. If you're thinking to but this, it'll be good, because I think the first 
 one isn't that good, and the gravity hammer in halo 3 is just messy.
  I bought it 2 years ago, but I put this review on now dunno why.
  So all halo lovers, BUY HALO 
 2 PC NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheapshot72493
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought it was choppy but after Christmas I upgraded my video card and It ran very smooth. 
 Everyone knows the halo franchise is good but I was extremely satisfied with Halo 2 vista it is 
 also fun to play with the controller. The game contains no co-op campaign but for some reason the 
 campaign is very easy and I didn't need anyone to help me. I'm also a little suprised on how many 
 people play it because it came out may 07 the only thing I dont like is that online almost all 
 the games are slayer or capture the flag. Capture the flag never seems to end when I play and slayer 
 gets boring because there is always 1 amazingly good guy in the lobby so I never win. The acheivments 
 for campaign are easy and the online achievments some are a little hard and some are easy. ex; 
 get a kill with the sniper or beam rifle
  if u have a good video card and are looking for a good game Halo 2 should satisfy u at only 30 
 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloking277
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is like halo 2 for the xbox, but the graphics are better. If you have a pc microphone and 
 a logitech chillstream pc controller (a pc controller that looks like a 360 controller) you have 
 allthe fun you need with internet connection. Also it has better graphics. If you looking for a cool 
 pc game get this one right here! Halo 2 is much better then halo CE. You should really buy this game. Ifyour 
 not allowed to buy the pc version because of the partial nudity, there is another halo 2 pc version 
 at bestbuy. Or you can download a patch that fixes it. The reason why it has it. Is because bunjie 
 mad a mistake. The game is so cooooooooool! Buy  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fejazafa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing I felt happy I wanted to know how the story developed and I also wanted 
 a new challenge I really liked that you can use dual weapons, new weapons (my favourites are the 
 energy sword and the brute shot) , the vehicles and that you can steal the others vehicles. But 
 this are the things I did not liked: first the controls they changed almost all of them and make 
 my gaming bit uncomfortable, then that they changed the pistol it was a really good gun but now 
 it is not that good at all, then that the sword has battery I hated that, and just to make it worse 
 they put a life bar to vehicles all that I hated it. But the, story, new characters, and all of 
 the rest that I mentioned before compensates so the point is this: halo 2 for PC is 7.5, for xbox 
 is 8.5. ( I might have maked mistakes because I don't fully speak english) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_bmx45
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a great computer game one of the best i put it up there with even crysis another great 
 computer game. Halo2 is a good choice in game because almost any computer can run it if it is on 
 Broadband. Also the Xbox Live system microsoft has run on it is awesome i have neva seen a game 
 that connects so servers as well as this or that has made adding friends so easy.. there are about 
 60servers to chose from you can even make your own server becaus of the realse of halo3 they have 
 made halo2 free to play online no gold needed witch is just great. They have many game types witch 
 are all extremely fun but also like the servers you can make your own game types and use them in 
 your servers. you can also downlaod maps off other people on there servers or chose to download 
 them off the internet.
  
  I love this game because it isnt just a little game on the net with only 10people playing so its 
 almost impossible to find servers and games to play in. No this game has thousands of people playing 
 witch makes it even more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewilderedRonin
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Egads, this horrible! The first Halo was a rather good port to the PC, although dated at it's time 
 of release. This, on the other hand, is severely dated. The cut-scenes look somewhat decent, despite 
 some glaring lip sync miscues, but that's about it. The level design is mediocre at best, looking 
 boxy, clunky and harks back to the days of Half Life, the first one. The model textures are a notred 
 improvement with a little bit or normal mapping and bit-bumping, but it's not enough to rescue 
 the dimsal and boxy models they are pasted over. The colors are still bright and catching, as per 
 that Halo feel. Considering how many much better looking FPS games have come out around the same 
 time as Halo 2, there's no reason to go looking for eye candy here. 
  
  Asides from the obviously lackluster visuals comes some of the most horrendous sound effects I 
 think I've ever heard. The guns sound like popping bubble wrap and popcorn. Gone is that visceral 
 punch that they provided in the first Halo. The weaponry feels static, as if the guns are obvious 
 props, and the ridiculous pop-pop-popping of gunfire just makes you grimace. I understand these 
 are futuristic weapons, but they sound weak and the qualityis an obvious downgrade from it's predecessor. 
 Also gone is the plethora of death screams. The first time I killed an enemy I wasn't even sure 
 they died. 
  
  The controls just... don't feel right. You cannot adjust your mouse sensitivity on a sliding scale, 
 instead you must select from preset levels of 1 to 10. This might not seem bad, but for some of 
 us that really feel the need to tweak our mouse just right, it's simply not an option. Actually, 
 the entire interface is clunky and feels like either an obviously rushed and shoddy port or a massive 
 reminder to buy a 360 controller for Vista. I've played games that were obvious ports before, but 
 this is just dreadful. To approve a menu choice it prompts you to press "A" and there is no keyboard-based 
 equivalent. This is a PC title and should be fully comfortable for PC players, not a gimmick to 
 sell 360 controllers. If I wanted to play my FPSes with a controller, I'd play them on a console. 
 The first Halo was certainly ported over a million times better.
  
  The overall gameplay is fairly solid, if you can ever get comfortable with controls. I edited this 
 to mention the controller after receiving a message telling me I missed out on not playing with 
 a 360 gamepad. But, here's the thing, I don't want to have to buy an overpriced gamepad to play 
 a game that should play extremely well on the PC. Being able to dual wield guns is a fun mechanic 
 and is made better by being able to wield a different gun in each hand. However, even this fun 
 perk wasn't enough to draw me in and overlook all the serious flaws this games has.
  
  I played this for, at most, 45 minutes. I enjoyed the port of the first Halo, even if it was kind 
 of easy (the little bit I did play on Heroic in Halo 2 was fairly easy as well) , but this horrendous 
 abomination of code seizing up 4.25GB of disk space I simply would not tolerate. I uninstalled 
 and took it back, telling the clerk that it wouldn't run. 
  
  No matter what, do not get this. Play it on the XBox or just skip it. If you're this desperate 
 for a good FPS, there are plenty out there that are much more worthwhile than this train wreck 
 of a console port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  This is a review of the singleplayer portion of Halo 2 only.
  
  --
  
  I've never really understood all the Halo hype. I played the original game a few years ago and 
 found it to be really average with nothing particularly special about it. I played Halo 2 this 
 week because I had nothing better to play, and also because I was hoping that the gameplay had 
 improved since Halo. Unfortunately this isn't the case, as I actually found this slightly worse 
 than Halo. I only got about 5 or 6 hours into the game (in about 1 - 2 hour intervals over a few 
 days) before I got too annoyed to continue and decided to stop playing.
  
  Halo 2 is your typical sci-fi FPS game, and this would personally be my biggest problem with it, 
 because there are a thousand sci-fi FPS games. So the Halo series obviously has to do something 
 special to bring itself above all those other games, and unfortunately it doesn't. It fits neatly 
 into the cliche with a few little minor twists and nothing more. 
  
  The story is uninteresting. Its a little bit more than the typical story setting of FPS games which 
 is basically "go there and kill everything because *insert reason here*", and it can be commended 
 for that. But it doesn't portray its story well enough. The cinematics are nice and I mostly enjoyed 
 the voice acting and animations, but the story they tell is kind of all over the place. In-game, 
 don't expect any better story hints because you will undoubtably be looking the other way or running 
 around somewhere else while a scripted sequence is occuring. The game fails to keep you on track 
 in these areas. Its also in dire need of subtitles for in-game voices, because they always seem 
 to be muffled and quiet, especially over the sounds of gunfire or explosions which by sods law 
 will ALWAYS happen while someone is talking to you. Or in some cases its just too difficult to 
 make out because of the incomprehensible crackling being sent by voice comm through your helmet. 
 (You'd think in the year 2250 or whenever the hell this is set, they would be able to send clear 
 static-free messages to you)
  
  The color palette is basically different shades of silver for the majority of the game, the only 
 exceptions to this being the two times you land on the Halo, when I could finally let out a breath 
 of fresh air at the nice and colourful environments, before being whisked away back into spaceship 
 greys and silvers again. This is BORING. I like a lot of colours in my games, it keeps environments 
 interesting, and a lot of gamers feel the same way about that.
  
  I liked some of the human weapons, but the alien weapons are boring. Laser weapons are cool to 
 look at but almost always boring to use in video games. You never really 'feel' them fire, because 
 they dont pack enough of a punch, and because of this they are quite dull to use. They all overheat 
 if you fire them for longer than, say, 2 SECONDS, as well. Which is just no fun. However, I LOVED 
 the energy sword thing. Its hugely overpowered, killing even the big alien guys with just a few 
 hits, and thats what makes it so awesome. Even when it breaks you can keep punching things with 
 the handle. Fun!
  
  The most annoying things in the game are the flood creatures, and those big pulsating enemies that 
 carry them. There are too many of them, they are not fun to fight, and you end up just trying to 
 avoid them.
  
  Teammate AI is pathetic. They never follow you properly, they always run off on their own somewhere, 
 and the game ends up teleporting them around a corner behind you so they can catch up more easily. 
 In vehicles they are even worse. When the warthog tips over and everyone falls out (which, I should 
 also mention happens all the time, because it handles badly, and for some reason you're supposed 
 to use the mouse to steer!?!?) they just stand around shooting and refuse to get back on the vehicle, 
 causing me to drive off on my own because I was sick of waiting for them, and meaning I had nobody 
 to man the turret anymore.
  
  The multiplayer is apparently the highlight of the Halo games. I wouldn't know, because I hardly 
 ever play multiplayer. From what i've heard though, its a good multiplayer experience. So if thats 
 your thing then by all means buy it. If you're primarily looking for a good singleplayer experience, 
 then look elsewhere because Halo 2 will not satisfy you at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Halo 2 was simply a classic on the xbox, should it not be just as good on PC? Personally i think 
 that this game has set the benchmark high for remakes to PC games. The reason is simply this, it 
 takes the fun and classics from the game on xbox and places them in a modern context. With the 
 new xbox live windows thing in place this just makes the game so much better. 
  
  Online is still as awesome as it was on the xbox and graphics are the same as they were on the 
 xbox. So why is it that a majority of PC gamers frown upon halo 2 on PC? The gamers who originally 
 played halo 2 on xbox and are now playing on PC would have no problem with this game at all. Sure, 
 they haven't built on anything from the xbox version, but that was the whole point. Rebuild the 
 classics and stick it in a modern context so that gamers can still play their old school favorite 
 games without whipping out the xbox. 
  
  With this in mind, let's start by talking about the graphics of the game. The graphics have not 
 changed at all since the xbox original version. Whether this is a good thing or a bad thing is 
 simply up to the person purchasing said game. Personally, i think that the graphics are fine, and 
 if one were to really take the graphics as a problem then they are missing the whole point of this 
 remake. Therefore, graphics are irrelevant, although still looking good. 
  
  Game play wise, the game goes back to basics. With original weapons, original button layout - if 
 you use a controller - and recognizable button layout for keyboard. Also, I noticed that controls 
 seem more responsive then that of halo 3. I felt that I had more control whilst playing halo 2 
 then halo 3. 
  
  The game is most dominant in the online part of it. Although halo 2 is not as extensive as other 
 games (halo 3 included obviously) it still contains the fun missions/objectives that the original 
 halo started. Bring a few new ones to the scene. *No spoiler*
  
  The online side to halo 2 has made a massive leap since it's appearance on the original xbox. As 
 previously stated, xbox live appears on halo 2 PC in which players can use their gamer card from 
 their xbox live account (if they have one) to play online and earn achievements. The only downside 
 to this is that players must have a xbox live gold account to play online. Just like halo 3. 
 
  
  Although this may be the case, it is most definitely worth it. You can even try out for yourself 
 if you purchase halo 2 as it has a free one month trial.
  
  Also the problem that most gamers have with halo 2 PC is that it is only for VISTA. Not XP. Therefore, 
 those with earlier editions of windows will not be able to install it. Which sucks. For XP.
  
  Overall, halo 2 is definitely a great classical remake that can be amazing if you have the 
 right stuff (xbox live gold, vista, etc) . Not to mention the achievements are easy as. But nevertheless, 
 for the gamers who have played halo 2 and are looking for a good vista PC game to muck around with, 
 i highly recommend halo 2 PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  If you're new to the series, you'll find that it's not too hard to understand. Basicly, you're Master 
 Chief (his name is released in Halo 3, but I'll tell it to ya now. It's John) , a spartan who faught 
 in a Spartan war and is the last spartan, and the only hope for the human race. Your mission is to 
 find and secure Halo, before anybody or anything else does. In the first level, you'll see a video, and 
 interact a little. Then, you'll be in a type of wearhouse, and a huge door will open up, and aliens 
 will come out and you gotta kill 'em all. You'll probably notice the little guys running around 
 like idiots screaming and whatnot. They say pretty random stuff every now and then. Sometimes, you 
 want to hug them, but other times you want to take their head as a trophy. These annoying little 
 aliens are called Grunts. Something sure to really bother you at some point, is definetaly the Floods. Floods 
 can turn your allies into one of them, but there is an upside to them. Because Floods are probably 
 the stupidest thing in the universe, they kill eachother. Some of them have sharp claws, and they 
 stab your allies and turn them into floods. The other kind droops a little and after you kill them, these 
 little guys come out and jump on you and suck your blood. They are called Packs. Annoying, huh? The 
 Floods objective is to control anything alive. The Aliens' is: Kill all humans!!! Anyways, this game 
 is great, you can even fly and drive vehicles. Cool, huh? I got it, you should, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soilworker1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Now, to start off Halo 2 for the Xbox in my opinion is much better. I one reason i liked Halo 2 
 for the PC is it felt like a more traditional FPS on the PC, but none the less no where near as 
 good. Halo 2 for the Xbox to me was a smoother playing game, with a matchmaking system that i thought 
 for Halo 2 is much better then the standard list of servers for most PC shooters. The one main 
 disadvantage for the PC version is that for players using the traditional mouse and keyboard auto-aim 
 is non-existent, giving the controller users an extreme advantage. Even though PC version does 
 feature higher resolution graphics, and the same old..... short story line, it still is none the 
 less your average FPS. But i wouldnt recommend buying it for the PC if you do already own it for 
 the Xbox or Xbox 360. Just stick with the console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperCanel
Rating: 2
Date: May 22, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  I am a HALO fan and halo 2 disappoints me. 
  
  First it is a simple conversion to pc and it is screaming loudly "I am an xbox game!". You feel 
 that in every aspect of the game. For example mouse sensitivity is neither smooth nor normal. Instead 
 it moves step by step.
  
  Second it has the worst graphics among highly anticipated games. Even Halo : Combat Evolved has 
 better graphics. I can prove it if you don't believe.
  Do not believe the ones who say it has perfect graphics. I don't know why but some people love 
 telling lies to others about games. And some other have never played a 3d game before and the first 
 3d game they ever see has the best graphics in their opinion.
  The first time I played halo 2, I thought someone tricked me and I was playing a fake game or a 
 Halo game which was published long before Halo : Combat Evolved. To be sure I finally checked halo 
 2 screenshots in this site. I am not kidding this game neither looks like a sequel nor a normal 
 game which is published in 2007.
  Before falling in love with the games graphics you should check others' screenshots.
  
  You 
 shouldn't buy this game, it is not the best sci-fi game either. And it doesn't have any improvements 
 over the other fps games. It is a shame Microsoft is trying to sell this using its predecessor's 
 fame.
  
  But in contrast to everything I wrote, I still feel like I have to finish this game because I love 
 its story and want to learn what happened after the destruction of Halo. I don't know what will 
 I do. Its only good part is story and I will give 2.0 instead of 1.0 just for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong I do like this game. It plays well but the problem is it plays exactly like 
 the Xbox version. This is by far the better version of Halo 2. Custom maps, server browsing, and 
 better graphics put it ahead of it's console twin.
  
  First the graphics. On a basic machine running Vista you will not notice much difference from the 
 Xbox version although they are passable but cannot compete with newer games like Half Life 2, Team 
 Fortress 2, Call of Duty 4, or Crysis. The loading of enemies in the distance is delayed depending 
 on what part of the game you're in but this never happens during the multiplayer.
  
  The single player starts out promising enough. The story takes place right after Halo: Combat Evolved 
 where Master Chief just blew up the Covenant (an alien cult of creatures) super weapon, the Halo, 
 and he is greeted by his commanding officer on the Cairo space station. As the story continues 
 you learn of the Covenant Elite (one of two Covenant factions the other being the Brutes) who is 
 called upon by the hierarchs to become the Arbiter. This is basically a death sentence since Arbiters 
 have extremely short lifespans. As you progress through the game as the Arbiter you encounter the 
 Flood, another alien species who are clearly based off of the headcrabs and zombies from the Half 
 Life series. The story ends on a cliff hanger with Master Chief about to crash back down to Earth 
 on a Forerunner (an ancient race no longer in existence) Ship and proclaiming he's going to finish 
 the fight. The ending will make you angry. This is absolute. YOU WILL BE MAD AT THE GAME. Just 
 be glad you can see the ending right away and not have to wait three years for it like the poor 
 fools on the Xbox.
  
  The soundtrack is one of the most amazing things about this game. The sound effects are dead on 
 save for when the cutscenes stagger and the dialog stacks on top of each other. But while the music 
 is well composed it is sometimes poorly placed. High combat situations will find either a high 
 beat song that matches the epic scale of the battle or it will be a relaxing song that will calm 
 you down as hordes of Covenant massacre you.
  
  The gameplay has always been the biggest problem for Halo. While it's far from broken, the sensitivity 
 is made for the Xbox 360 controller which can be used easily since this is a Games for Windows 
 title. Also this is one of the few GfW titles to give achievements which are considerably easy 
 as compared to Gears of War. So if you turn up the sensitivity you should be fine.
  
  The multiplayer is where this game shines. The unfortunate part is that not a lot of games play 
 by regular rules. Most games are modded to use either only swords or only sniper rifles and beam 
 rifles (the Covenant sniper rifle.) So if sniping is not your game you won't be playing this that 
 much. But there are several other game modes that usually don't have modded rules such as Capture 
 the Flag and Assault, in which you transport a bomb to the enemy base.
  
  So basically it's a good multiplayer FPS with a nice if annoying story. This is still a three year 
 old game. And it was designed for the console market so you know what you're getting in to. There 
 is an included map editor if thats your type of thing but the 23 included maps should be enough 
 to hold your interest during the 1 month LIVE Gold trial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft has been controversial, yet successful, in the release of two extremely hyped products: 
 Windows Vista and the Halo franchise (created by Bungie) . With the PC version of Halo 2 they're 
 joined at the hip and despite the clear marketing purpose (rather than technology) , it still turned 
 out to be strangely successful. Well, I went for it too and frankly regret spending the money despite 
 getting "a deal" at the time. 
  
  
  IN A NUTSHELL 
  
  Halo fans please forgive me as I (may) have sinned! It's true, you won't find much endorsement 
 for Halo 2 in this review and yes I am a confessing PC gamer (or at least not a big fan of consoles 
 anyway) . 
  
  However, once taking the emotional portion out of the delayed release of Halo 2, the fact remains 
 that very little love went into the porting of the XBox hit to the PC. In fact, despite steep system 
 requirements (i. e. Vista) , Halo 2 feels exactly like the XBox version: mediocre graphics and lame 
 AI or absent physics. It's a bit like taking the original Halo and releasing it for XBox360 only 
 (unchanged) . Of course nobody would except that, but Microsoft/Bungie appear to believe that PC 
 gamers can be served with a cold dish. 
  
  In essence, I got this game due to the hype upon release for $40 (or $10 discount) and certainly 
 still feel cheated by at least $15. There are plenty better games out there and November 2007 adds 
 a long list of stronger games with more substance, even when taking Halo's core strength into consideration: 
 Multi Player. (Think of Unreal Tournament III, Gears of War, Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, Crysis, 
 Timeshift, Call of Duty 4, Bioshock, F. E. A. R.: Perseus Mandate ...) 
  
  
  DETAILS 
  
  Game Play: [*** -- ] Your can leave your brain at the door, as reflexes are what keeps you alive 
 in Halo's universe. Okay there is the story of Master Chief and the Covenant woven through the 
 game, but it's nothing more than the background for an one-against-all scenario where you alone 
 are set out to save the world. There are no secrets to discover and puzzles to solve, simply keep 
 the trigger happy and ammunition replenished. 
  
  Graphics: [** ---] At the dawn of Vista, one could probably forgive that even the self-proclaimed 
 poster child Halo 2 isn't making any use of the new capabilities offered by DX10. However, the 
 simple fact that it requires Vista makes the lackluster graphics even more so bothersome. Halo 
 2 is in no way a match for the latest games with DX9 graphics, and even looking back 2 - 3 years 
 the smell of "underperformer" isn't easy to wipe off. While resolution can be set higher than any 
 XBox, low resolution models, textures, and effects really dim the experience. So in essence, Halo 
 2 is indeed a poster child ... for how not to do it. 
  
  Physics: [* ----] Halo 2 doesn't support advanced physics hardware. Software physics are relatively 
 simple, and nothing to brag about. It's certainly a result of the low computing power of the xBox, 
 but the developer could have used the time to add at least a smidgen of extras. I am not even asking 
 for the physics based vehicles like Unreal Tournament III or destructible environment. 
  
  Controls: [****-] Generally a WASD/Mouse control scheme, Halo 2 plays just fine as a FPS on the 
 PC. Use the mouse to look around, aim and shoot or use any of your inventory things, while the 
 keyboard is on duty for the typical movement and inventory. A gamepad is supported and generally 
 working well within the capabilities. (Aiming with the mouse is still a lot easier.) 
  
  Progress: [*** -- ] Same old console limitations with checkpoints as the only way to save progress. 
 While the game's AI is way to simple to make this a major problem, it's still unnecessary. 
  
  Sound: [*** -- ] Nothing special, but no major problems either. Voice acting is sterile as usual 
 and doesn't inspire much confidence. Score and effects, on the other hand, are good average and 
 yield a "good" for the genre. 
  
  Weapons: [****-] Okay, so double wielding weapons apparently are all the craze, and Halo 2 won't 
 disappoint. Overall there is n't much difference to the original Halo and everything feels a lot 
 like been there done that. That doesn't take away from the fact that weapons are well balanced 
 and overall good implemented. 
  
  Artificial Intelligence: [* ----] Aggressive and only seemingly adaptive, the AI is extremely streamlined 
 and scripted (just like Halo) . Run straight into the covenants and they're putting up quite a respectable 
 fight. Find a back door and you will sometimes have to unload a massive amount of "lead" in order 
 for them to even notice you. Other times you're simply baffled how they knew you would come around 
 that corner (way before they could have seen you as they're seemingly deaf anyway) . The little 
 covenant guys are still more cannon fodder and hardly worth a thought. Most enemies approach in 
 a straight manner and are confined to their area. A sense of adaptive behavior is created by the 
 scripted dodge and roll "reactions" when trying to avoid your shots, but they will do that no matter 
 what your actions are. 
  
  Extras: [*** -- ] How do you sell a 3-year-old game and force the upgrade to another product of yours 
 in the process? Halo 2 seriously has nothing new to offer -- beyond the vastly popular franchise 
 -- other than mouse/keyboard controls and a map editor. The latter helps the fan to extend life 
 of this game, while some players may never exhaust the existing levels since it's being put on 
 the shelf quickly after arrival. 
  
  Multi Player: [****-] Let's face it, multi-player is the single biggest (if not only) reason to 
 even consider this game. It's not so much that it's unique in any way, but the community is large 
 and the maps are fairly big too. There isn't much strategy involved, and fans of a solid "shoot 
 first, ask later" policy certainly are served best. While I personally don't like it much, the 
 popularity of Halo in the multi-player community certainly proves its value to some gamers. 
  
  
  HARDWARE 
  
  Load times are relatively long despite relatively simple graphics, but 
 with large environments likely to be the cause. Graphics pauses and stutters are relatively rare, 
 but not eliminated despite my graphics card. Overall gameplay is responsive at 1600x1200 and everything 
 set to maximum. (Granted, Maximum in this case isn't much more than medium or low for other games 
 like Lost Planet.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalopolo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  When Halo: Combat Evolved first came out, it brought First Person Shooters to the console. Not 
 only that it set the standards for all First Person Shooters from then on out. When it was ported 
 to the PC, Halo had become a base for many modding communities, competitive multiplayer, and a 
 story with 2 or 3 good levels. The sequel to it, Halo 2, continued the story, brought gamers together 
 with Xbox Live, and was one of the most played games. When Halo 2 finally got ported onto the computer, 
 it was a thing in the past, in other words, no one wanted to go through it again.
  
  Halo 2 for PC starts you out inside the Covenant Holy City, High Charity, where you witness an 
 alien testifying his statement on the destruction of the ancient ring world, Halo, where he is 
 trying to prove his innocence. He is on the verge of being killed for valuing his life than to 
 stop the Halo from being destroyed. He then is considered a Heretic or a traitor to their cause 
 and is carried off by ape looking things. Then the story goes back to our reoccurring hero who 
 is on a space station, The Master Chief, where he is about to get new armor. He cracks a joke there 
 that could cause a chuckle if you played the first game. You get briefed on the controls, and you 
 are told how the shields work. Then Sergeant Johnson (back from his death on Halo) comes to take 
 you away from training to an award ceremony. You then board a train and look at the huge image 
 of Earth out the window. That's when the trains stops and you exit the train and enter a room. 
 Then it goes to our alien marching down an aisle of angry aliens who want to see him get tortured. 
 You then see the alien bound by his arms and set aflame. That's when it cuts back to Master Chief 
 who is watching the daughter of the dead hero from Halo: Combat Evolved, Captain Keyes, receive 
 a medal for something. Then it goes to the smoldering alien who is getting stripped of his armor 
 in front of a lot of other aliens. That's when it cuts back to Sergeant Johnson getting a medal 
 for surviving on the ring world. Then goes back to the alien showing him get branded and yelling 
 in pain. That's when it goes back to the space station where aliens have started to invade the 
 Solar System, which is when you are told to defend it. The story is pretty interesting, that is 
 just the epilogue. The whole story is really complicated which finally ends out in an Alien Civil 
 War. The whole campaign took me about 8 hours to do on Heroic. It shouldn't take an average gamer 
 too long to do. Oh yeah one more thing, you get to play as that alien, but it's no different from 
 being Master Chief.
  
  Halo 2's has okay PC game controls. If you just come back from another game, you will need to take 
 about five to ten minutes to adapt back to the controls. The standard "WASD" movement and the mouse 
 for looking controls translate fine, but sometimes the mouse tends to lose sensitivity while driving 
 vehicles. Because of this, you will need to pick your mouse off the table, and move it to another 
 spot it you are continually turning, which seems to happen a lot. The dual wielding weapons controls 
 aren't pretty, it turns dual wielding into a punishment. Too start out you need to hold "Q" to 
 pick up a second weapon, when you finally do that, you have two options. Left click for firing 
 left gun with right click firing right gun, or left click firing right gun, and right click firing 
 left gun. When you want to fire both weapons, you need to push both the mouse buttons down. This 
 feels uncomfortable, because when I play, I like to have my thumb on the side of the mouse, my 
 index finger on the left click, and my middle finger on the mouse wheel. When you are carrying 
 two different weapons, say a Plasma Rifle and an SMG, those to guns dual wielded can have destructive 
 potential, to do so you fire the Plasma Rifle until their shields are down, then you fire the SMG 
 to finish them off. When you do it on a mouse and keyboard, it makes this deadly duo feel underpowered. 
 Those controls don't feel right, but if you have an Xbox 360 controller, problem solved. You can 
 enter and exit vehicles with "E" and you can even hijack them with "E" too. I must complement on 
 how well the vehicle boarding system is executed, because sometimes when I press "W" I accidentally 
 hit "E" and would normal exit, but there seems to be a mechanism where you have to hold "E" to 
 exit. When navigating through the menus, there isn't anything wrong there, it is really easy. When 
 connecting to a server it is a little hard, because you have to wait for the server list to be 
 completed before you can click to connect to it.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence in the game is okay, but I have seen better. They can be useful too, 
 but don't rely on them too much. Probably the most they can do for you is give you a hand in the 
 back of the Warthog. Maybe even kill a few bad guys, but don't expect them to do all the work for 
 you. Either way most of the time you will find yourself defending them, but on higher difficulties, 
 you will need them to survive. You are allowed to swap weapons with them, which is a huge improvement 
 from killing them to get their weapon. In the final boss battle however they prove their usefulness 
 by running blindly waiting to get whacked by a monkey with a Mohawk and a hammer and ultimately 
 get killed. But they are distractions for you to take him out.
  
  The graphic settings are a little bare, there are only three graphic options, Resolution, Anti 
 Aliasing, and Level of Detail. The Level of Detail options have three choices, Low, Medium, and 
 High. On a mid range PC with an NVIDIA 7800 or above, you can get at least High with at 1280 x 
 1024. Anti Aliasing gets the jagged lines out of the picture, but you will find yourself not using 
 it. Either way you can choose "2 sample" anti aliasing, "4 sample" anti aliasing, or simply choose 
 none. The resolution options aren't too good. It only has about 10 or 11 total. It supports mostly 
 4:3 or 16:9. Maybe 1 or 2 16:10. In comparison the Crysis with over 20 options, you will be wanting 
 more if you have a widescreen monitor.
  
  The lighting and shading look good, but they aren't mind blowing. The alien structures are fun 
 to look at, but the textures are a little embarrassing for a 2007 game. The snow just looks like 
 one white with no visible difference. The grass doesn't really impress to much either. You don't 
 really see it moving when vehicles pass by it, it just sits there. The glass has some potential, 
 it looks awesome when you shoot it and it collapse. You don't see that in may games these days. 
 There barely is any glass though. The lighting also is good, especially when you see shadows cast 
 from enemies when you shine it in their faces. In comparison to the Xbox version, Low settings 
 is equivalent to the Xbox settings. In other words on low it looks like a good 2004 game. But on 
 high it looks like an okay 2005 game. It's impressive to see how far they improved, but they could've 
 done a little more. 
  
  The animations in this game are great. When someone is running, you can see them build up their 
 stride. Also in the Xbox version the in game models looked a little downgraded than the cut scene 
 models. In this game, they look almost the same. The only downside to the fluid motion that gets 
 presented to you is that it looks like an old game. If you can get past that, you can see that 
 there isn't any skipping as far as motion goes.
  
  The music in this game is very dynamic, when in the cut scenes, when it shows humans and human 
 related stuff, the music sounds military, but when it shows aliens, it sounds demonic, almost godlike. 
 It is amazing what the music in this game can do without any words. I personally like when on the 
 level "Metropolis" when someone said "Marines, time to kill us a scarab" some heavy metal game 
 in changing the situation to get you pumped to grab a rocket launcher and kick some alien a**. 
 The music seemed to change throughout the situation to reflect on the in game story. I recommend 
 playing the game with the sound on.
  
  It is great that they got some actors to voice out the characters, also it is even better to here 
 the little aliens talk in their little girl voice. It is also cool to here what Sergeant Johnson 
 has to say to the aliens. You will find yourself having to ignore the music to listen to voices. 
 The humor in this game is nice, but it won't make you laugh yourself wet, it will give you a little 
 chuckle or two.
  
  The sound effects in the game sound almost lifelike, you can get really freaked out when you hear 
 a rocket whooshing towards you and getting blown up. Each gun has its own distinct sound that will 
 separate you would be able to recognize after about an hour or two. If playing on multiplayer, 
 you can hear certain objects in the map make sounds, like if you open a gate you hear it open. 
 Sounds are good.
  
  The game utilities are a little disappointing, for one thing you can only have one campaign checkpoint 
 at a time. This is a losing battle against games that let you have custom saves, because you don't 
 have that either. You can only load your last checkpoint or the beginning of the level. The map 
 editor doesn't offer too much freedom for experienced map makers. They are also really hard to 
 understand what you are doing, but I have seen some impressive creations so I don't have complaints 
 on that, but map makers will. Also you can not mod the games multiplayer and go online with it.
 
  
  The multiplayer is just like any other PC game. There are dedicated servers and peer hosted servers 
 on a huge server list. The multiplayer setting customization options offer room for creativity. 
 The multiplayer doesn't have too many people on. At any given time there are forty to a hundred 
 people online at a time. The multiplayer comes with two new maps that look professionally made, 
 but only two. Those two are great, but are a welcome addition to the already huge map library in 
 Halo. I had expected more than two though, but hey at least they made some. This would be better 
 if you could play with the people on the Xbox version of this game. 
  
  In all Halo 2 PC is an okay port, a few things could've been done to make it better, but it is 
 still an okay game. I would say it is worth about 25 USD to own. This game could go online in Game 
 for Windows Live, which means you can earn gamerscore for your Xbox Live profile. There is no co 
 op for this game, but if it was included it would at least be fun for a friend over. It would be 
 even better if it had online co op. In conclusion you can find some fun from this, but you can't 
 find everlasting fun from what Halo 2 on Xbox brought you.
  
  
  LOPOLO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipo101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  OK, well, this was my first game for the Vista, and it was really good when I first got it. Over 
 time, it didn't get worse or anything, it just was replaced with games like COD4 and GOW over time. 
 Why? They're just more fun and diverse. 
  
  I mean, sure, Halo 2 is fun, but it gets boring after a while. Once you beat single-player mode 
 (which I found quite fun and worthwhile) , You're stuck with Multiplayer, which is terrible compared 
 to the COD4 Multiplayer. Why? Because of COD4's many features that make it better than H2. These 
 include challenges and create-a-class mode. 
  
  Graphics are great, and they make everything look much cooler than the original Halo. New weapons=eh, 
 not that good. And why isnt the pistol a 1-hit kill anymore? I used to OWN with that gun.
  
  Overall, I think you should only get it if you can't afford COD4. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  You reprise your role as the "Master Chief" doing battle with the Covenant and the Flood.
  
  Good Points:
  
  Decent enough story.
  Good voice acting.
  Dual wield.
  
  Bad Points:
 
  
  Awful graphics.
  Multiplayer on LIVE.
  Vista only... yeah right!
  
  Halo 2 has a decent enough story but there are things that aren't explained at all. How did they 
 get back to Earth? How did Johnson survive the Flood attack? All of these questions aren't answered 
 in the game but thankfully are answered in the book.
  
  Good voice acting is allways a must for any game. Cortana, Master Chief, Sgt Johnson reprise their 
 roles and on the whole they do a fantastic job especially Sgt Johnson he is awesome.
  
  Duel wielding in always great fun especially the Brute plasma rifles, they are just hand held death.
 
  
  Now i'm a believer of graphics not being important but what the hell happened to the graphics in 
 this game. The graphics aren't the greatest in the world obviously because it's an old game from 
 a console but the graphics are no where near recent games. There are horrible looking textures 
 on buildings and vehicles, it's certainly not what I was expecting from a game released in 2007.
 
  
  The only multiplayer available is through Microsofts LIVE service of which there are two tiers 
 silver and gold. Silver is the cut down version that only allows you to use the game browser whereas 
 Gold will allow you to use quick match. Anyway I didn't play multiplayer because I don't want to 
 have to sign up for LIVE. Why should I? Why should I have to pay to get all the features that other 
 PC games give you for free?
  
  "Enhanced for Windows Vista" that's what it says on the box but that's a load of ****. It's hard 
 to imagine that it's enhanced or optimised for anything. In fact the only reason it only works 
 on Vista out of the box is because they made it that way, I reviewed this game on an XP machine 
 and the game works fine.
  
  Overall this is a lacklustre port of what was a half decent console game. They seriously needed 
 to release this game before 2007.
  
  Review PC: QX6850 Extreme (3.0GHz Quad Core) , 4GB RAM, 768MB Geforce 8800GTX, SB Audigy ZS, XP 
 SP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egess2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  We can explain why Halo series are so good...
  The series has sold about :20 million game.
  And Halo2 is the best selling game of XBox.
  
  So what makes this game good:
  -The graphics
 
  -Sound
  -Gameplay
  -Story (for me it's quite well)
  -Design
  -Live section
  In Halo 2, the health bar is no longer visible; instead, shield regenerates quickly when the player 
 is not taking damage. [11]
  
  Halo 2 features more than fourteen human and alien weapons, many new to the series. Some weapons 
 can be dual-wielded, which allows the player to compensate for reload times, while sacrificing 
 accuracy and the ability to use grenades for raw firepower. The player can carry two weapons at 
 a time (or three if dual-wielding; one weapon remains holstered) , with each weapon having advantages 
 and disadvantages in different combat situations. 
  
  Almost no bads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Now then, we all know of the grandeur of the Halo legacy on the Xbox, but what about when they 
 decide to port it to the computer? Well, unfortunately, nothing comes good of these ports and they 
 put a sad dimmer on the great expansion of Halo into the word. Now while Halo: CE and Halo 2 for 
 Xbox will be enjoyed in the hearts of many gamers from young to old, novice to experienced, I can 
 say the opposite will be the path for these two games released on the computer. In a few years 
 time, people will laugh at you for even mentioning that the Halo series was released on the personal 
 computerit will be taboo.
  
  Now I thought Windows and Microsoft and the game creators of Bungie would learn from their epic 
 mistake in the port of Halo: CE from Xbox to computer. Yes, it is apparent that they changed the 
 multiplayer configurations, but not from better, but to absolutely dismally pitiful. It was one 
 thing that the multiplayer capabilities of Halo: CE were marred by poor coding, but now with Halo 
 2, they decide to make well on good coding, but then they restrict multiplayer access to a monthly 
 subscriptionWHAT? This is PC, I am not playing an MMORPG, and I already paid $50 for this game.
 
  
  Now for the user who is in a hurry, there is no need to continue to read on, because I will put 
 it here: do not ever lay hands on it, do not even borrow it; your life is worth dollars more than 
 the time to put even a minute into it.
  
  As for everyone elseon to the review.
  
  ---
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  You know, you would think that if you play on an first-person shooter 
 on a PC, you would expect to play as a person would on the PC, with the classic keyboard and mouse. 
 But no, Microsoft has something else in mind. They are pushing that people use an Xbox 360 controller 
 to play this gameon a COMPUTER!!! If I wanted to play this game with a console controller, then 
 I would have bought it for the Xbox, not for the computer. Nevertheless, users are continuously 
 harassed by the fact that even though they are playing on a computer, they are plagued by the Xbox 
 controller commands, "press A to jump." I could take this in two directions: either Bungie decided 
 to just directly port the game to the computer, and not even spend the time to change the controls 
 to a QWERTY FPS setup, or they want to push the use of a console controller on a PC, how illogical. 
 This is where the score dropped. Overall, the gameplay is as smooth on the PC as it is on the Xbox 
 through campaign and multiplayer, but the fact that Microsoft dare mix FPS PC with the controller 
 of console, is a death jibe in this game. FPS PC users wish nothing to do with console FPSs and 
 that is why they play on the PC and console FPSs play on the console  they do not want to fraternize 
 or see any hint of their enemy, and I agree. Another factor is the overly long loading times and 
 low settings that must be used on a game that should not demand this much, and it just tears into 
 the gameplay, which is sad. The greed that Microsoft wishes to invoke on gamers is plain lunacy. 
 The fact that this game could easily run on Windows XP attests to the fact that the launch title 
 of Halo 2 for Windows Vista was more for exploitation than for the advancement of the gaming industry. 
 Not only do the controllers have an unfair advantage do to the automatic detection of them in the 
 game, and thus an added sticky aim to assist in aiming, but sooner or later, this game will get 
 massively hack, and then this game will truly bite the dust. As said before, it should have never 
 been transferred from Xbox to PC.
  
  Story: 5/10
  As in the Xbox version's, the PC version of Halo 2's story is the exact same, and as much disappointing 
 as it was almost three years ago when Halo 2 debuted on the Xbox in November of 2004 (11/09/2004 
 to be exact) . It is true, the story was a flop. The only things that saved it were the twists in 
 the plot, and the decent cut-scenes. Basically, it appeared that the story had been slapped together 
 quickly, without much thought. The game ended as quickly as it started, in which most decent players 
 could easily defeat legendary in under 8 hours, heroic and below in under 5 hours. The story continued 
 off from Halo 2, though there were many loop holes in the plot that had you not read the books 
 that Bungie made as a profit source, you would not understand the plot. Basically, a person would 
 get more enjoyment from the plot in the books than from the game. The game was just pure tasteless 
 with loophole after loophole, and another horrible ending. It gave the player a not wanting for 
 Halo 3, but a question mark over their head asking, "That's it?" "What, Halo 2 is not the end?" 
 Many people found it very damaging that Bungie would prefer money over a classic, and though it 
 is sad to say, Halo 2, in my opinion, will never make it into classical gaming. Once the corruption 
 for money game into being, the story was ruined. Instead of making the game the thriller, Bungie 
 made the books, and since there are so many Sci-Fi thrillers out there, Halo 2 will never be able 
 to compete with such classics of Sci-Fi literature as Stranger in a Strange Land, etcThough the 
 story left disdain in many hardcore Halo fans with its many pitfalls and inability to evoke people's 
 desire for more, the spirit of these fans was rekindled with the multiplayer in the Xbox, but guess 
 what? That ounce of hope is totally flattened when we introduce the multiplayer aspect of this 
 game for the PC.
  
  Multiplayer: 1/10
  Now when it is time to judge the multiplayer aspect of a game, the two most important foundation 
 structures are its ease of use and accessibility, and unfortunately, this port of Halo 2 for the 
 PC fails at both. If it were not for my epic experiences with multiplayer on the Xbox, I might 
 have even given this game a 0 in the category. Now then, it is totally time to belittle the multiplayer 
 aspect of this game. First, the advantage of a controller usage in the PC realm is enough to sicken 
 any FPS user who uses the PC as his or her base, and not to forget, a disgrace to the console area. 
 Next, all the problems that were native to the game on the Xbox have never even been fixed!!! Not 
 even tweaked! Do you know what I mean? I am talking about standbying, modding, glitching, bridging, 
 and what drives me even more insane than all of thosebattle rifle exploits. Not only is it easier 
 to program on the keyboard to pull of the stunts, but soon everyone will be using them, and it 
 would be who has the better aim, but rather, whose macro is the most efficient. Now then Xbox Live 
 is a great thing for the Xbox, but when they bring it onto the PCLive for PCthat totally paradoxes 
 the meaning of multiplayer for PC. No longer are the channels open to wonderful free land of multiplayer, 
 but setup as they are on the Xbox, where a database chooses who you plays, totally disgusting and 
 sad. And for all this garbage, you have TO PAY, that's right, pay for multiplayer FPS gaming that 
 has always been free. And you know what I say to that, that's enough. It would have been better 
 to wipe your butt with the $50 bill that you used to buy this game than to play this game and experience 
 the oxymoronic perplexes in this game. And you know what's sad? This game, this game for Vista, 
 that requires you to pay to play multiplayer, could not even live up to one second of the original 
 Half-Life that probably uses only 10% of the power this thing uses. How befuddling. I am here to 
 defend Halo 2, and when I see it utterly destroyed on the PC, how it had so much potential, but 
 then the game creators are blinded by their greed that they impose such restrictions, I strike 
 this game down. It is worth nobody's pain or suffering. Sure they may have so much content to choose 
 from, but what is the point if you cannot even access it? I give up. You think they would be capable 
 of logic, from learning from history which strategies work, and which do not, but no, they do the 
 complete opposite.
  
  Graphics: 3/10
  Remember that story that Bungie kept feed us that this Halo 2 transfer from Xbox to PC was going 
 to be better than ever and that the graphics would be stunning. Well, actually they failed on their 
 word, and when people lie and there is a let down, well, expect no mercy in my scoring. The fact 
 this graphics are the exact same as those on the PC coupled by the fact that a much weaker system 
 would be able to run them had it been ported onto the XP and not the Vista, totally knocks the 
 stuffing out of the graphics. They are ok, but when I see that a game claims that it need 1GB of 
 RAM to run and the components of Windows Vista mixed with a decent video card, I expect a foundation 
 that is grounds for a next-generation PC gaming. Well, we got none here, just the typical boring 
 graphics of the previous generation of software. When software depends the technology, but doesn't 
 even use the technology provided to even 50% of its capability, it is a lost cause. There is nothing 
 noteworthy that was noteworthy of the graphics of Xbox, because on PC, these types of graphics 
 are mundane and the past, there is nothing impressive here.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Well, at least there is one thing that did not get screwed over in the transfer from Xbox to PC. 
 The music is well composed and decent. It basically follows several variations from a main theme 
 throughout the game and continually comes back to a fugue to give the sense of a circle, just as 
 the halos of the games are circular. It was well thought through, the orchestration is superior, 
 and the sound quality is superb. And to add this classical sense of music to it, they throw in 
 some nice hard rock guitarist solos to the heat of the moment. Such adds remarkably to the heat 
 of the moment.
  
  Replayability: 3/10 (6/10 in Campaign, 0/10 in Multiplayer)
  Now why does the multiplayer aspect get no credit? Because you can only play a month of it before 
 you are required to play a multiplayer FPS on a PChow ridiculous. Therefore do to this crazy restriction, 
 the game garners my first zero in any field of a game, because when action does not meet logic, 
 I let it be known, and it is being known now. The campaign though does have some nice attributes, 
 because it is capable of exploring the Halo 2 realm due to the fact that the game is so short. 
 And with this, there exist many Easter Eggs waiting for the non-expecting user to encounter such 
 as the Scarab Gun, and with the advent of the transfer to PC, modding the maps for continual playing 
 can be fun, but eventually, it will get old. The campaign had some nice potential, but when a person 
 is hit with such a dissatisfying ending, it is hard to try to take back something that has forsaken 
 you. Nonetheless though, I hope none of you have to ever experience whether this is replayable, 
 because you should not even have this game, case settled.
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATIONS
  Using my rating system for a Campaign Game:
  20% Gameplay, 40% Story, 20% Graphics, 5% Sound, 
 15% Replayability
  
  This game in Campaign: 4.8
  
  Using my rating system for a Multiplayer Game:
  10% Gameplay, 50% Multiplayer, 20% Graphics, 
 5% Sound, 15% Replayability
  
  This game in Multiplayer: 2.0
  
  For overall game rating, 50% Campaign, 50% Multiplayer
  
  OVERALL RATING: 3/10
  Suggested 
 Action: Do not buy, borrow, or try. Waste of money and time.
  
  Final Comments: The rating speaks for itself and for myself. It is not a game worth of anything. 
 Heck, if you wanted to be cruel, it would be crueler to buy a person this for a birthday present 
 then to not buy anything for him at all. If you want, just look skim the box and look it all the 
 flashy writing on the box"Oooha game for Vista"but ya. Heed my warnings and avoid disaster, 
 because this is the lowest rating I've ever given a game, and I am truly disappointed by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Normally I am very impartial when rating games and am certainly not led by hype. I have played 
 the original Halo on PC and this game on a friends Vista (urgh!!) and it is my no means as good 
 as the original although it does have it's moments. 
  
  The Gamespot review is fairly accurate so I am only really rating this game in retaliation for 
 a developers decision to make it Vista only specially when there are so many better games out there 
 of the same genre new (Crysis, Bioshock) and old (Call of Duty, Halo 1) which do run on XP and 
 even Win98SE.
  
  Had this been done to exclude the older tier of OS's due to certain requirements I could at least 
 understand it, however firstly the majority of users are still on XP and secondly VISTA (for those 
 technologically enlightened) is an awful operating system (like ME was in its day) . 
  Sorry Bungie, Microsoft Studios and Bill Gates but I will never purchase this game legally unless 
 an XP patch is released, Vista at all and will wait for the next operating system to come out.
 
  
  Rant over ... signing off.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthrocker
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  i've been on gamespot a while, i've played every genre of game there is, i enjoy first person shooters 
 and puzzles games , but even this game confused me and not in a satisfying way, here's a quick 
 run down on why not to get this game:
  
  The good: it has a good system for duel weapons
  
  The bad: This game in my opinion is horrible, the story hasn't been that exciting... the graphics 
 are colorful but very boxy with no real texture, the voice sounds vary (the volume will increase 
 and decrease in different parts of the game, i have a 5.1 surround sound system that works fine) , 
 what to do in the game gets confusing and disorienting (feels like your going round in circles) , 
 vehicles are difficult to ride even with mouse sensitivity boosted to "insane", the menu is difficult 
 to navigate because its been ported, this game leaves out some important tactics for first person 
 shooters despite its age of which it was built, such as crouching, proning and leaning around corners.
 
  
  oh and...
  
  multiplayer...
  
  the good:
  
  THE BAD: difficult to setup an account, every time i login for LIVE it minimizes to the desktop 
 (just irritating) , Xbox LIVE and windows LIVE are a pain, not many servers, maps are small, people 
 online are unfriendly and rude (swearing and taunting) , all that anyone does is jump around, (and 
 all the above for single player apply aswell)
  
  i had a bad feeling when i bought this game hoping that it would be worth it, but it has only dissappointed. 
 
  
  Final thoughts:
  don''t follow the hype, download the demo before you buy or get it for $10... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbothe444
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I think that Halo 2 for the PC is a very good game ( even though i've never played it on an xbox 
 for the whole campaign) but the auto-aim and campaign is the main problem. The campaign is dreadfully 
 short ( in easy mode i was halfway through in 3 hours) and in multi-player the auto-aim is killer, 
 but since i bought a logitech controller its fair now. The main improvement over Halo: Combat Evolved 
 is the abundance of maps, the already included halo map editor (so you don't have to download a 
 huge file like Halo: custom edition) and the fact you can also play as an elite is a very well 
 thought out addition. The hijacking element and the multiplayer destructable vehicles are a good 
 addition to the game ( the rocket whores are growing on halo 2 though due to the lock-on) . In overall, 
 Halo 2 for the PC is all Halo 2 xbox is, and more. The xbox live silver lack of online achievments 
 is a real downer for all those swordsmen or the carjackers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eizenstahl
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 22, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Im not sure what to write about this game... my stomach hurts and I feel dizzy.
  
  Is this what all the ravings been about? Are you kidding me? Its like watching Starwars over and 
 over and again, only that _all roles_ have been replaced by JarJar Binks.
  
  * Subpar graphics..1992 here we come again.
  * Terrible 'gameplay' (I dont even want to call 
 it that) .
  * Weapons and overall feel? Don't get me started..
  * The JarJar binks voices... COME ON!!
  * I cannot honestly come up with even one positive thing 
 to say about the game.. I really cant.. It is so utterly lame and Im so angry Im having troubles 
 writing this.
  * Halo 1 was repetative and pretty abysmal as PC-games come., but atleast it wasn't this terrible.
 
  
  
  Some say the PC-game market is dying. No-one buys games anymore. I know why. Games like Halo 2 
 makes you want to shoot yourself in the head.
  
  I want my wasted time back. Microsoft! Can you hear me??
  
  
  
  STOP PORTING ALLREADY SUBPAR 
 GAMES ON THE CONSOLES TO THE PC AND CALL IT A PC-GAME!
  
  /Flame off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  As a shooter, it is a nice sequel to Combat Evolved, carrying on those things that made the first 
 Halo game so successful, and adding a few more tweaks and new weapons and vehicles, very well designed 
 maps and levels on the single campaigns, as well as new vicious members of the Covenant and a more 
 aggressive Flood. The game is also very stable and although the max resolution and visual effects 
 certainly are sub-par compared to many PC shooters on the market today, if you are a fan of Halo 
 this is a game you can't pass on
  
  The big problem remains in the single campaign story, and not really because the well-commented 
 cliff-hanger ending, which is fine with me as I see Halo as a trilogy, but on the way to tell the 
 story itself. Chapters and missions seem to move out of synch sometimes, the story doesn't flow 
 as it did in Combat Evolved, and at about 75% of the campaign, it's very easy to lose the sense 
 of purpose and the game slips into a kill-as-success shooter, which I particularly don't enjoy 
 (reason why I tend to avoid multi-players, for me a game is like a book) . There are basically two 
 stories told from two opposing points of view, which is very nice but if not done properly, it 
 can become a struggle to keep the meaning. I think there was no good effort to keep these two stories 
 flowing together in parallel and then joining in the expected climax. In fact, it seems developers 
 at some point got confused themselves with these two stories and decided to focus more on the game 
 play aspect, leaving the game severely handicapped on one side.
  
  But having said that, I enjoyed the game play, the challenging aspects of the missions and playing 
 Master Chief again, and as such this is a game I'll recommend to those Halo fans that don't own 
 an X-Box. But don't expect too much of this game. If you're not a Halo fan and you couldn't care 
 less about the whole Halo universe, then pass on this game and go play COD4 or Crysis
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChoCNillA
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  
  Well compared to some complaints Halo2 has for its age some pretty good graphics but maybe at the 
 end of the day it all depends on what hardware you got going on.
  
  So anyways not really got into the single player mode as it seems not all that action packed and 
 thrilling to myself but some of you may feel different towards this and others of you may agree 
 but it all seems like your just roaming around with a few enemy bad guys thrown in here and there 
 and almost every computer controlled character that follows me around and this may just be because 
 I don't care about them but there basically dead when they touchdown on the ground. All things 
 considered am sure this may pick up further into the game which at some point may get around to.
 
  
  The main selling point that drawn me in was the xbox360 control factor and the multiplayer mode 
 which at times can be a little hectic but all good fun, you may find some games empty on multiplayer 
 but they do tend to fill up pretty fast with some good players ready to pounce. More on the controller 
 point would be having all the controls to hand without moving one hand half way across the keyboard 
 to perform it so it's all rather quick game play and I suppose in some way provides a better ability 
 to kill your enemy whilst jumping through the air. Thanx for reading my review is all I can say 
 an happy gaming :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricaner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  pc users are now just starting to experience halo 2. this might sound incredeble but if your a 
 pc user who is going to buy this game make sure you have a windows index score of 5.0. you can look 
 this up in performance and information tools only available on windows vista. in overall this is 
 a really impressive game, the graphics are astounding, mixed in with the story and bon a pettite 
 you have a near perfect video game like this one, just make sure you have plenty of ammo for the 
 second mission. (not real ammo game ammo) . i just wish the missions weren't so hard. maybe i shouldn't 
 bore you and get right to the point if your gonna buy this game make sure your computer can support 
 halo 2 or you just wasted $50. and we all now we don't want to waste $50 on a game we can't play 
 because it is just downright annoying. see you next time for another review by hurricaner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trodeback
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm still trying to figure out why this game needed DX10 support. I played the game on an XP platform 
 and could max out all the settings. Anyhow the gameplay is very similar to the original Halo, with 
 a few changes that you'll probably notice right off the bat. First off the famed pistol has been 
 replaced with a weaker counterpart, and zooming has been diminished with the pistol, only allowing 
 the use of iron sights. Dual wielding weapons is also a new feature but puts you at a slight disadvantage 
 not being able to toss grenades while both hands are full. I also noticed that the warthogs don't 
 drive as good as in the original game. They tend to drift much easier and the turning sensitivity 
 is turned down a bit. All the vehicles in the game are no longer invincible, meaning that the more 
 damage you take on the weaker the vehicles become. For instance while on a ghost if you take on 
 too much damage the turning response & acceleration will take longer. Vehicles also blow up upon 
 impact of a rocket launcher or after taking too much damage. Extra vehicle abilities such as Banshee 
 barrel rolling & ghost speed bursts are present. New weapons are also introduced: Covenant Sniper 
 rifle & brute shot (grenade launcher) to name a few. The storyline featured is quite interesting 
 and the game leads you along quite well so you're always wondering what the next step will be. 
 Overall this game is a fun 1st person shooter. I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoyed the 1st Halo 
 game. Don't expect jaw dropping graphics though, you wouldn't expect a game that was on the xbox 
 for a year to have jaw dropping graphics after coming to the computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exotic47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Ok, for those of you who don't know what Halo is and you're annoyed by all the people out there 
 who talk about "Halo rocks!" and "Halo's the killer app. for the X-Box". You weren't always alone, 
 I use to wonder why people liked Halo so much and I sometimes got annoyed that people were talking 
 about Halo when ever you mention the X-Box. So I decided to give Halo (Combat Evolved) a try and, 
 just from playing campaign mode, I loved it, it was just so fun, the way you fight people and kill 
 people in their game just makes it so fun. Probably the best part about Halo and I'm sure you heard 
 about this to, is the multiplayer. The multiplayer just makes it so fun but it is hard to describe 
 the way of the game without you actually playing another person online or even through a LAN or 
 splitscreen. It is just so fun and don't worry about it being too hard, everyone (except little 
 kids because the game is Mature rated) can play this game, even if you suck at games. That's just 
 the first Halo, but now I'm here to talk about the second one. When I first played Halo 2, It jut 
 made me love halo even more. The game does get more violent of coarse but it also gets a little 
 bit better, you have access to way better weapons, including the new energy sword that you might 
 have seen playing the first one but it was never accessible, the option to hold 2 guns at the same 
 time, and improved use of the engine. The campaign mode continues from the first one but it can 
 get to be a little weird at times, but once again the multiplayer improves on the game so well, 
 I can problobly explain what you may see in Halo 2's multiplayer, there are more maps to choose 
 from, more weapons make the game fun, and you can also drive vehicles at the same time. if you 
 want to play against other people in the world, you may want to create an X-Box live account, and 
 what X-Box Live is it's an online community run by microsoft that allows certain people to connect 
 to microsoft and have their games connect to them and microsoft for certain things, for example, 
 If you beat certain levels in the Halo 2 Campaign you can actually win points that are sent to 
 Microsoft, once you get enough points, you can buy games online and stuff like that. Another thing 
 that X-Box Live does is if you sign up, you get something that is called a GemerTag, and that GamerTag 
 Identifies you and allows you to play you game with other people online who have GamerTags and 
 are playing the same game as you. So basically, you can connect and play with people online via 
 X-Box Live. One of the biggest things that annoys me about people and still annoys me is that the 
 biggest reasons why people like Halo so much is just because it is on the X-Box, as soon a they 
 move it to the PC, generally all of the X-Box fans stay away from the PC version and engage very 
 negative towards it, one of their biggest excuses and maybe this reason is true, but the average 
 PC game is usually Really good and highly impressive, more impressive than Halo as a matter of 
 fact. But don't let that excuse stop you from picking this game up because it is still a very great 
 game. The only bad thing that I would sa about Halo 2 PC that is different than the X-Box is that 
 it is only available for vista, wich doesn't make any sense because it is a game from 2004. Besides 
 all of that, the bottom line is Halo and Halo 2 are great, PC or X-box, they're both the same games, 
 if you haven't played this game yet or are even afraid to play this game, don't worry because this 
 game is for everybody to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llewellyn1982
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  Saw this game in the Tesco bargain bin the other day and thought "What the hell?!", Halo was awesome 
 and the xbox review of this game was good so I bought. How gutted was I, when I installed and played 
 it, to find out that Microsoft had swindled me out of 20.
  
  The Good:
  
  1. The Story
  
  I've sat here for 5-10 minutes trying to think of more good things but had 
 to stop as I just going round and round in circles
  
  The Bad:
  
  1. Dated Graphics 
  2. Poor In-game Audio
  3. Poor frame rates (even on high spec'd machines)
  4. Have to pay to 
 play multi-player via Windows Live (biggest con going in my books)
  5. Requires Vista to run (though there are applications on the net that'll get it to work with 
 xp)
  
  All in all a huge disappointment. Lets see if they get the ass in gear and deliver us mere PC gamers 
 Halo 3 without the 3 year wait. Till then save your pennies or get Crysis.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: livenforspeed
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It is for everyone! It grows on anyone who dosent like it!! GO HALO!!!!! 
 The game is soo kickass. I never really liked it on my buddies 360 at first, but then i started 
 to like it. I then got a brand new HP gaing laptop, and i plan to get it tonight and playit for 
 hours. It is verry addictive!!! I am havent stopped plaing this game in a while. i always lpay 
 it at my friends house, and now that i am getting it tonight on my laptop i want to play it fore 
 ever 
  This game is awesome. It is for everyone! It grows on anyone who dosent like it!! GO HALO!!!!! 
 The game is soo kickass. I never really liked it on my buddies 360 at first, but then i started 
 to like it. I then got a brand new HP gaing laptop, and i plan to get it tonight and playit for 
 hours. It is verry addictive!!! I am havent stopped plaing this game in a while. i always lpay 
 it at my friends house, and now that i am getting it tonight on my laptop i want to play it fore 
 ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice-Blade
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  well to be honest it's not a bad game but not that good
  I mean you feel it has been directly ported to PC , the gameplay it's just weird it's like exactly 
 the X-BOX version but there was some interesting things like the weapons and you can hold 2 weapons 
 in the same time that is good idea the cars and planes of course one of the things that makes HALO 
 a unique game , the graphics is not bad and sounds either and the sound tracks is awesome and i 
 mean really awesome, the story was just fine but the ending was kind of strange , mission objectives 
 is good not lame or something in all it's just like i said it's good game but bot that good and 
 i hope HALO 3 to be ported to be PC sometime to find out how is the story ends and i hope they 
 port it right not just like HALO 2 or it's useless to port it from the first place 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2 is the sequel to the best selling Xbox game of all times, Halo: Combat Evolved and has been 
 released for the XBox in 2004, but finally arrives for the PC. In Halo 2 you'll continue the fight 
 against the alien union called the Covenant. This time, the Covenant reached Earth after the destruction 
 of Reach and Halo, they headed straight for Earth. So this time you'll fight on Earth, but also 
 in space, spacestations and, another Halo. ''Welcome back Master Chief!''
  
  The gameplay had some changes, like the dual-wielding of onehanded guns. Just simply walk over 
 a one handed gun with another onehanded gun, and press-hold the ''Y'' button or the ''Q'' button, 
 and you'll be able to fire both weapons with both trickers. There are also a lot of new other cool 
 weapons. Only the sad thing is, there's no more MA5B Assault Rilfe. New is also the AI of the Covenant 
 and UNSC troops. The UNSC marines can now drive any vehicle except the Scorpion Tank. The Covenant 
 Elites and Brutes can also highjack your vehicle and kick you off it. So you can see them cruise 
 away in your ride! But you can do the same of course, so just highjack another ride from a little 
 Grunt or Elite or Brute. So there's tons of new things that make the gameplay perfect.
  
  The visuals of Halo 2 are nice, but haven't got upgraded ever since the XBox version. Halo 2's 
 superb at any point of it's great ringworld and space worlds full of great nature and other habitats. 
 Also the light effects are great to look at. But within cutscenes, you'll see that the details 
 of buildings, other surroundings and troops ( including the Master Chief ) need to be loaded in 
 2 seconds, and that can be irritating. Not only within cutscenes, but also in-game. Just take a 
 look at a Ghost, and walk to it, and you'll see the shape changes. But, that was in the XBox version, 
 with Vista it has been reworked and taken care of.
  
  The sound has always been perfect and it will stay that way. Just go outside and compare the sound 
 of Halo 2 with the reallife sound, and then just go play Halo 2 again. And you'll hear no difference.
 
  
  Value. Although Halo 2 has great new online multiplayer, and cool new features, the single player 
 is a total let down for Halo fans and other single player lovers. So, in short, superb.
  
  Tilt, Halo 2 was supposed to be the best sequal game ever to the best game ever, Halo: Combat Evolved. 
 Things like highjacking, online multiplayer and dual wielding, Halo 2 is a nice game that has unique 
 moments, and hardcore action. The single player wasn't what it should have been, but it has it's 
 great moments and shouldn't be missed.
  
  Good points
  
  + Perfect sound effects with a awesome soundtrack.
  + Dual-wielding.
  + Highjacking.
  + Multiplayer 
 can be customized and has many fun features.
  + Live.
  + Custom games and map editor.
  
  Bad points
  
  - Dissapointing storyline...
  - Very short campaign.
  - The Arbiter...
 
  - Kinda weird ending.
  - Graphics are dated.
  - Vista only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterb32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  i have halo 2 for pc but i cant play campen i can play on line i got it going yesterday 4 like 
 30 sec it is gust the computer i gust cant get it going if this is happined to u and u have got 
 it going plz help me get it going my frind has it and i can play it at his house but he might because 
 he got a xbox 360 with halo 3 so if u can help me plz email me or try to get a comat on my page 
 or help me by msn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexpka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  This game has been modded where you can use this on xp, so all you xp users are lucky. Just google 
 it and you will find a mod, follow the instructions and play.
  
  But this game dosent give me any reason to play it now, Halo 3 came out, and i want to finish halo 
 2 before i play that game, but i dont feal like playing it because it feals like you playing in 
 the past especially since the graphics arent so great, and i hate how microsoft
  
  bullshits
  
  us
  
  all
  
  the 
  
  TIME!
  
  
  Why the hell does this game 
 have to be delayed, if its delayed no ones going to buy it! This game is stale and rotten, its 
 been slowly ported to the pc and stuck to vista.
  
  I was mad when i noticed that it was only playable on vista, but ever since i found he mod to play 
 it on xp i gave this game a rating of 7.5 not 5.0, i dont know what microsoft is trying to pull 
 here but i hate the year long waits, and this has to stop now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  I've never been too big on Halo, when I sat down with the original Halo: Combat Evolved and played 
 through its campaign I found it to be below average with sloppy level design, and gameplay that 
 was very console oriented (but that made sense since the game was originally released on the XBox) . 
 When I sat down with Halo 2, I was expecting more of the same and I was right... but I must admit 
 that I was also wrong.
  
  Halo 2 is set almost immediately after the original game, with Master Chief back on Earth along 
 with Sergeant Johnson. Who is Johnson you ask? I have no idea, the story says he was with Master 
 Chief on Halo. There were a few individuals who looked and sounded like him in the original game, 
 but they had no names, and there were supposedly no survivors aside from Master Chief according 
 to the ending, so I have no idea where he came from. Anyway, the big tag line of Halo 2 involved 
 Earth being invaded... and yet the Earth invasion only takes up the first hour and a half of gameplay. 
 The storyline mostly centers around a second Halo, the Flood, and those fruity religious aliens. 
 Halo 2 tries to bring the storyline up to a more complex level in the sequel, but you can tell 
 that the writers are amateurs since there are times when it feels like they have no idea where 
 they're going with the story.
  
  You not only assume the role of the Master Chief in this sequel, but you also get to play as a 
 Covenant Elite called "The Arbiter" who was disgraced by the destruction of the original Halo. 
 This sounds good in theory I'm sure, but aside from story and who attacks you, both characters 
 play exactly the same. They jump the same height, run at the same speed, and can make use of every 
 single weapon and vehicle they come across. Is this bad? No, but it's not good either... if you're 
 going to include multiple playable characters at least make them different in areas other than 
 story.
  
  Halo 2 doesn't depart much from the gameplay mechanics of its predecessor. You can only use two 
 weapons at a time, you can use a melee key\button to beat enemies to death, and you can drive vehicles. 
 There have been some changes, one is the removal of health bars. Once your shield is gone it only 
 takes a couple more shots to kill you, which in my opinion was a fairly foolish design decision 
 since there is often a lot more enemies at once in Halo 2 than there were in the original game. 
 Another major change, and a good one, is destroyable vehicles. In the original Halo you could drive 
 off of cliffs, and get blown into oblivion by three tanks at once and your vehicle would be unharmed. 
 In Halo 2, Vehicles take damage and can be destroyed if they take enough.
  
  One of my biggest complaints with Halo: CE was the poor level design. Halo 2 is somewhat improved 
 in this area. There was a lot of copy and pasting in the original game after the first surface 
 mission, but in Halo 2 there are only several places where areas are copied and pasted and they 
 are far between which is nice. Still, I'd prefer it if they were not present at all. The level 
 design is still far from above average, most of the rooms are fairly bland in appearance, and often 
 you'll find yourself trapped in a room where you have to fight off wave after wave of enemies until 
 a door magically unlocks, or a wall conveniently explodes allowing you to progress. Great, an arcade 
 shooter. Still, the level design isn't all bad, there were some moments of brilliance that took 
 me back to my Unreal days. The levels where Master Chief first lands on the new Halo were very 
 nice, unfortunately the rest of the game does not feature the same design quality.
  
  Obviously Halo 2 is dated, the game is several years old now, and it was created as a title for 
 the original XBox. Still, the graphics aren't too bad and can be nice to look at if you don't mind 
 the fact that a lot of it looks very cartoonish, and like it was taken out of a comic book just 
 like the original game.
  
  The audio is great, you've got solid voice acting, atmospheric sound effects, and like the original 
 Halo a great musical score. I still find the English speaking alien thing a little hard to swallow, 
 but every Sci-Fi game that includes aliens does that, anyway, so its hardly a flaw.
  
  Surprisingly, Halo 2 is a vast improvement over its predecessor. I don't consider it the greatest 
 FPS ever, or even revolutionary for that matter, but the campaign is more enjoyable than the original's, 
 and it feels more polished overall. Still, the "fun" multiplayer is little more than average, I'd 
 rather play something like Unreal Tournament since that is actually fun to play. Regardless, when 
 Halo 3 is inevitably ported to the PC I just might try it. I still don't see what all of the hype 
 is about, though, while Halo was below average, Halo 2 is simply average, am I playing the same 
 game as everyone else? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Halo 2 was originally released in 2004 and the gameplay itself holds up really well. However, the 
 game does show its age especially in the graphics. For those who jumped into the Halo franchise 
 on 3, like me, and are looking to see the origins you wont be disappointed by the game, but you'll 
 probably be frustrated by the many differences.
  
  First, I'd like to make a note about system requirements. This game does require Window's Vista, 
 but this isn't a review of Windows Vista. If you don't have Windows Vista you can't play this game! 
 As for system requirements, this game runs really well on my Pentium D system with 2GBs of RAM. 
 I only have a 7600GS 256MB video card. Of course I'm restricted to the lowest resolution (800x600) 
 to get the performance I need, but on my old 19" CRT Monitor that is just fine.
  
  The single player campaign is very fun on Halo 2. One thing to note is that there is no 2 player 
 co-op like there was on the console. Otherwise the experience is largely the same. Halo 2 has a 
 pretty punishing difficulty especially on the harder modes. One thing that is particularly frustrating 
 though is the level design. There are holes in the floors and ledges that you can just walk off 
 of resulting in an instant death. Even with these problems, the game manages to squeeze in a lot 
 of fun. The story is pretty involving on this game and adds to the motivation. The classic Halo 
 formula works here too. Although, with the harder difficulties you'll find you'll have to be much 
 more tactical instead of just running and gunning. However, should you win you'll feel like you've 
 really accomplished something.
  
  The multiplayer component is pretty good too. Halo 2 PC uses the Games for Windows Live service. 
 Which means you'll have to sign up for a windows live account (hotmail) if you don't have one. 
 You can play online for free, but some options are left out (there are Gold exclusive games, but 
 not many people play them) . If you already have an Xbox Live account, like I do, then you can use 
 that and still talk to your friends from Xbox Live. The game uses a lobby system opposed to the 
 Matchmaking system of the console version. It works well and makes it easy to pick the specific 
 game type you want; deathmatch (slayer) , team deathmatch, capture the flag, king of the hill, oddball. 
 There are still plenty of people playing as of the witting of this review, but not as many as on 
 the console version. The game has plenty of maps built in and also includes a map maker so there 
 is more than enough content. The game supports voice chat, but you can still chat with the keyboard. 
 Multiplayer is very fun and is one of the things that sold the game so well originally. Its still 
 good, but there are some better newer options out there now.
  
  With the delayed release of the PC version of this game, it might have just missed its core audience. 
 Compared to most game released today it could definitely use a graphical update. The surprising 
 thing is how well everything else holds together. The campaign and multiplayer are still great. 
 If you're curious about the Halo Franchise this is good place to get an introduction, and if you're 
 a fan of Sci-Fi shooters at all, I'm sure you'll find something to enjoy in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcardone05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of Halo: Combat Evolved. The PC version was among the top games I have ever played. 
 So when Halo 2 came out for XBOX, I was anxiously awaiting the release of the PC version. Ages 
 later, it finally does, with integration for XBOX Live masked under the Games for Windows Live 
 name.
  As the best-selling Xbox game, it had alot to live up to. It did. The killer combo of Keyboard 
 and mouse provides the game with a new level of multiplayer experience. The maps are stellar, with 
 several exclusives. There are maps for every preference: large, drawn out CTFs to small, quick Slayers. 
 Maps are beautiful and fun to play on. The single player is only slightly better, albeit with better 
 graphics.
  It confuses me how low the scores are, but for me, this very simplistic game is among the most 
 underrated of 2007 for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2 for the p. c is a port of the original and halo 2 was a great game but on the p. c it something 
 that realy doesn't need to bee lookeed at..
  The presentation its halo one of peoples favorite games of all time but its the same game as it 
 was several years ago and hasn't realy changed for the most part wich is a little dissapointeing 
 no realy updated graphcis and same gameplay as before... The Sound in halo is still great it has 
 the same great voice acting and main campiang song that every body knows.... The Graphcis... Are 
 the same as they were before they havn't been updated and so many other games look so much better 
 than it and its kinda dissapointing... The gameplay halo still has its realy short but great single 
 player in it you play as master chief and you fight the alien race the covenatn and you don't aim 
 down you sights its realy about jsut the fun in the game wich it is but the bad thing is that the 
 you also play as a alien called the aberter and his missions are not as fun so the campaingn is 
 still the same you will ride arond in your vehicles and tanks and lay wast to anything that comes 
 in your way.. The multplayer.. has your game modes like TDM and CTF and it can be fun becasue the 
 multiplyaer will let you drive tanks warthogs and flying machine called bacnhies but to break it 
 all down halo is the same and theres no realy any new addition to the game and with other games 
 on the p. c that are better halo just doen'st quite stand out in any way
  
  The presentaion 4.0
  The grpahics 7.0
  THe gameplay 7.0
  multipalyer 7.0
  value 7.0
  
 oveall 
  
  6.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  So I don't own an Xbox360 and so I only played Halo2 when visting relatives. But I never had a 
 chance to finish the game. I'm not too big on multiplayer so this review will completely ignore 
 that subject.
  
  So on with the review ; I enjoyed the game very much. Switching from Master Chief and The Arbiter 
 was interesting enough and a good change. Much easier than on Xbox, mouse being more precise and 
 all. Graphics are what they are, dated. But that wasn't a concern when I got into it. My pc isn't 
 the best, so this was limiting my visuals.
  
  Story was good, makes me want to play the 3rd. Though I hope it won't take 3 years to release again. 
 May borrow a 360 and play it instead.
  
  I tried to install Vista (legal copy) and it didn't work very well. (My pc is 4 years old, P4 2.4 
 GHz, 128 Mb GT6600, 1.5 GB DDR)
  
  So I sold my store-bought game and downloaded the damn game and with a fix for the game to run 
 on XP. I don't like to endorse piracy, but sometimes companies like MS just don't deserve our respect (and 
 $) when they make us wait 3 years just to make that extra buck off Vista. Had it come out on XP 
 a while back, I would have willingly bought it then and enjoyd it.
  
  So a 7 instead of 9 for that screw-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxy456
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Halo has always been a popular series Halo 1 for PC was awesome but us pc ppl waited 3 years for 
 Halo 2 for pc and then we need vista like what the heck. The graphics aren't very pleasant to llook 
 at if your pc meets the minimum requirements and this game needs some pretty hefty requirements. 
 The story is good except the end sound is awesome it's unfortunate that gamepad ppl get autoaim 
 like that's whack at least Live silvermembership is free but gold get everything . In the end Halo 
 2 for PC is not fulfilling my hopes to play Halo 2 on pc. 2 years ago would be a great release 
 time for halo 2 but no they waited for vista that's unfair and mean BASTARDS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  WOW! Halo 2 has been released on Windows Vista. The game that all of the Xbox gamers have been 
 enjoying for three years has been released on the platform its been destined to inhabit since the 
 beginning! So, what's the truth?
  The game may have been great... on consoles... three years ago.
  
  Halo 2 starts off where 
 Halo dropped off, leaving you on Earth right before the eventual Covenant invasion. What follows 
 is a twisted sci-fi plot of betrayals, discoveries, and unexpected new alliances.
  
  Unlike the first Halo, the plot, being told through various cutscenes, is extremely confusing and 
 convoluted, literally taking you across the galaxy and into opposing characters far more times 
 than one can count. The game feels rushed, with an ending that will leave many people pissed and 
 wanting to get Halo 3 (which I wholeheartedly recommend playing if you have a 360 and just skipping 
 this)
  
  The gameplay itself isn't much changed from the original Halo, keeping the old shield system and 
 two-weapon limit. One notable addition is the dual-wielding mechanic, which allows your character 
 to hold two small weapons at the same time. It is fun, and makes you wonder why the first game 
 didn't include it when Bungie's own Marathon series had the mechanic half a decade before. You 
 can still go into vehicles, and there's one or two new alien ones, along with a variant of the 
 famous Warthog.
  
  The enemies remain pretty-much unchanged from the first Halo, adding in new characters such as 
 Brutes (large apes with a major melee attack) , Drones (flying bugs) and a few other additions. 
 The new ones don't really add much to the game, and you'll probably have the most fun mowing down 
 Grunts, taking out Elites' shields, and flanking Jackals, all holdovers from the original. The 
 gameplay is uninspired and derivative of the first game, making you wonder if the game was merely 
 reskinned and rearranged from the first one. However, if you're a fan of the first game, there 
 isn't much to hate in terms of the gameplay.
  
  Multiplayer is standard Halo fare, meaning it is quite good, especially when you consider it comes 
 from the consoles. There is a plethora of gametypes, and overall, the gameplay is much less quick 
 and more tactical than other sci fi multiplayer shooters thanks to the shield. However, most weapons 
 are highly inaccurate and fights will often wear down to guys rushing each other weapons blazing, 
 and then hitting each other with over-powerful melees to get rid of each other. The multiplayer 
 is further hurt by its integration with Microsoft's live network, which is so popular on the Xbox 
 platforms. While you aren't required to pay for a Gold account to play online at all, you will 
 need one to host games or quickmatch, and to gain multiplayer "Achievements" Making PC gamers pay 
 for things they've essentially had for free for years gets a big thumbs down.
  
  Where Halo 2 might disappoint most is with its graphics, sound, and overall presentation. Whether 
 or not the engine is now extremely old, there's no getting around the fact that Halo 2 isn't pretty. 
 Enemies are badly-detailed, energy weapons leave weak-looking blue trails, and grenades fizz out 
 the second they explode. Environments are very low-end and weapons models are blocky. The lighting 
 is completely static. The game can't stack up against Half-life 2, Doom 3, Far Cry and the other 
 beautiful shooters that came out in 2004, let alone newer graphical benchmarks such as Gears of 
 War and Crysis. There are no environments that make you go wow as they did in the first Halo, even 
 though this game technically has the better graphics. Added to this is a strange color selection 
 encompassing the entire game which seems much less eye-pleasing than that in the first one.
  
  The weapon sounds in general lack the oomph that they had in the first Halo, the SMG making 
 an insignificant popping noise, and the plasma rifles sounding as if someone had dialed them down 
 to their lowest settings. Grenades don't shake the screen or the room as they used to, and voice-acting 
 (besides that of the Covenant during cutscenes) is very drab and bored.
  
  Overall, Halo 2 is a pass-over this year on the PC market. It simply offers nothing new to appeal 
 to pc gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluebusiness
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Already in the Halo 3 era hype and craze has engulfed us gamers. Halo 2 for the PC was not a good 
 port for it was a very late transfer from the Xbox platform to the pc one. The game does not provide 
 any new aspects from its original Xbox version. I highly do not recommend this game to any Halo 
 fan, it is not a good investment due to old gameplay, graphic and story port.
  The multiplayer, like any, is entertaining at first but eventually dies out to be quite boring. 
 If microsoft could port Halo games to the PC much quicker they would attract many more customers! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pops1966
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I create my live profile, only to discover that live gaming is not supported in my region yet. 
 Clearly, South Africa is a bit behind. Oh well, on with the campaign then. I select my difficulty 
 and start. I am blown away by the complete lack of any decent modern standard graphics in the intro 
 videos. OK, so they must have jazzed up the game graphics, give it time. I suddenly become Masterchief, 
 the most uninteresting looking uber-warrior I have ever played. The graphics, I fear are really 
 as bad as the intro videos proposed. So, what is the appeal of this game. When I started playing 
 Halo 2, I still had a stereo set-up, and I lost interest in the game within half an hour. I then 
 upgraded to surround and decided to give it another go. The game is a bit slow in starting, gradually 
 getting you more involved in the story as you go along. Using the wide variety of weapons adds 
 to the fun of the game. I ran out of ammo several times, ultimately being whacked into the afterlife. 
 This to me adds to the fun of trying to beat an opponent to death to get another weapon. Or simply, 
 running around trying to find a weapon you can use. The challenge of staying armed and alive is 
 a good balance for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGremlin1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  I rushed home to install, this, the First game for Vista. I cracked open seal, installed and ran 
 with baited breath. HALO 2 starts loading. I am anxious to see this much anticipated masterpiece 
 of the XBOX on PC. Bearing in mind, that I am not a console gamer at all.
  
  I create my live profile, only to discover that live gaming is not supported in my region yet. 
 Clearly, South Africa is a bit behind. Oh well, on with the campaign then. I select my difficulty 
 and start. I am blown away by the complete lack of any decent modern standard graphics in the intro 
 videos. OK, so they must have jazzed up the game graphics, give it time. I suddenly become Masterchief, 
 the most uninteresting looking uber-warrior I have ever played. The graphics, I fear are really 
 as bad as the intro videos proposed. So, what is the appeal of this game. When I started playing 
 Halo 2, I still had a stereo set-up, and I lost interest in the game within half an hour. I then 
 upgraded to surround and decided to give it another go. The game is a bit slow in starting, gradually 
 getting you more involved in the story as you go along. Using the wide variety of weapons adds 
 to the fun of the game. I ran out of ammo several times, ultimately being whacked into the afterlife. 
 This to me adds to the fun of trying to beat an opponent to death to get another weapon. Or simply, 
 running around trying to find a weapon you can use. The challenge of staying armed and alive is 
 a good balance for me.
  
  In short, this game is definitely not all I expected it to be, the graphics are lacking. But with 
 that in mind, I find it all just a good bit of shooting fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I was astounded when I heard that Halo 2 for PC had gotten trashed. I had to try it out myself. 
 The price tag was healthy, and sure, I will admit; I am not a graphics gamer. If the game does 
 not have excellent top notch graphics, I am not going to trash it. That is the story of Halo 2 
 for Vista. The game first of all, should be for XP also, big mistake by Microsoft there. Second 
 of all, you should be able to play with xbox liveg gamers throught Halo 2's games for windows live, 
 but you cannot. Finally, yes I admit, it could have had better graphics, but to a certain extent, 
 how good does the game have to look for it to be a 95%+ game? The game was very underrated, and 
 it has excellent gameplay. The battle rifle is the coolest weapon, and I love dual needlers + dual 
 SMGs. Sure the magnum stinks, but the battle rifle makes up for the old pistol. I personally liked 
 the story line, (not the cliff hanger) and was very impressed with the new experience on Vista. 
 If you are an FPS fan and have Vista, heck if you have Vista and like good games, then Halo 2 is 
 the right game for you, especially if you have an existing xbox live account to use for Games for 
 Windows LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I have played many first person shooters but none like this... This one just blew me away... I 
 am a hardcore PC gamer and once this title released I had to play it on the PC (due to my friend 
 Filaria who's a die hard HALO fan) .. I was not a fan of Halo due to Combat Evolved but after Halo 
 2.. I am just too big a fan to deny it..
  
  A DX10 card max-xes out the performance in this game even though it isn't essential... The game 
 has some performance issues but on the whole provides great gameplay and its already immersive 
 storyline style gameplay gives it the edge.. From the graphics generated videos to the awesome 
 action that you need in any Sci-Fi FPS it has all... This title has combined great frame rates 
 with awesome smooth gameplay to make an unbelievably great game.. The details in the game are great.. 
 The weapons and dual wielding especially knocked my socks off... The new shield system was a great 
 improvement.. and the new features in the vehicles... the new weapons- covenant and human.. all 
 were absolutely awesome.. I wrote this review right after I finished the game... The last 4 levels 
 are virtually some of the most enthralling levels that I have played.. The fact that we play using 
 both the Arbiter and Master Chief make the game a bit more interesting but yet I missed the presence 
 of the Master Chief while thrashing the crap out of the Flood and its minions.. I think that I 
 the Arbiter's camouflage was awesome but frankly, i could use a flashlight instead at some places.. 
 I dont think vanishing in to the dark really helps at some levels.. LOL.. You'd think the blessing 
 of the prophets would yield more.. but hell, they die in the end, anyways.. so their blessings 
 mustn't be worth much either.. LOL..
  
  On the whole this was a fantastic game and the AI of both the enemies and allies were commendable.. 
 I especially liked the fact that most of the comments that the characters gave out were new and 
 weren't repeated time and again like in Halo: CE. The game rocked me to the core and I feel that 
 this game would have been much better had it been launched unto the PC platform quite as soon as 
 it was launched into the mainstream consoles..
  
  P. S.: Please forgive me everyone who find my use of periods disdainful. I, myself don't know why 
 I like periods so much... If you know why, then do tell me or else JUST DEAL WITH IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I dunno why people complain so much bout h2v.... they say that the gfx r bad n all, if u compare 
 em to GOW or sumthin like that then they r but not to an extent that u wud wanna get it off ur 
 screens..... from a Halo perspective they r definitely a huge improvement over the prequel. The physics 
 engine is awesome, the havok engine utilised by the likes of Max Payne 2 generates gr8 destructible 
 environments n other stuff, bump mapping is definitely a gr8 inclusion,.... these r'nt all new stuff 
 but i really njoye em in this game in particular. For me Halo 2 PC is by far the best FPS i hv played 
 till date, hands down. This game offers plenty of variety.... it gives u all that u wanna do in a 
 FPS plus more. Halo 2 probably is one of the few games that has everything u wud want an FPS to 
 have had it released 4 yrs back with the Xbox version i wud hv called it innovative. The single 
 player campaign is short but fun n i mean lots of fun.... i cant remember njoyin myself so much 
 as while playin Halo 2 PC.... its probably the only game that i hv played that made me go 'wow' 
 so many times. This is one game that has a  arsenal of 
 weapons n vehicles. The weapon cache is filled with an enormous variety of weapons frm which u cud 
 choose any to take care of the baddies. Enemy AI has really been improved over the prequel n the 
 Brutes make a perfect addition to the game. I njoyed the sound much more than the gfx, flawless job 
 by bungie in this department, it was also one aspect of the xbox version that made it so popular. My 
 favorite weapon in the entire game wud b the plasma enery sword, an innovative inclusion to the 
 FPS genre which was good for almost nething in the game...... this game can spew enemy driven vehicles 
 at u like a volcano...... ther r levels where ull encounter very many vehicles.... dont bother counting... n 
 i almost forgot to mention a very lovable feature of halo 2-dual welding... people say this wasnt 
 the major inclusion of halo 2, i disagree..... there r'nt many games that allow u to dual wield the 
 way halo 2 does..... most games hv the bad habit of givin u either dual uzis or dual pistols which 
 cant b changed..... halo 2 on the other habd allows u to dual wield weapons of ur choice.... ofcourse 
 that doesnt mean u'd b able to dual wield rocket launchers..... there r a set of weapons u can choose 
 frm n they neednt b the same.... now that what i call variety.... u can vary ur choice according 
 to the situation. Hijacking vehicles is another feature u dont see very often in FPS.... n this ones 
 way better than the GTA hijacking... its difficult to execute but is a rock solid inclusion. Martin 
 O'Donnell has done really well with music, i wud say halo 2 is one game that successfully creates 
 the right environment for the right situation with its music, really spectacular.... specially on 
 the flood levels.... Cutscenes in this game r the best u can get in any game with flawless voice 
 over acting... impeccable..... though the story may b difficult to comprehend for some no halo geeks...
 
  
  In comparison to Halo 1..... this is definitely a huge improvement. Halo 2 has been given innumerable 
 tweaks that make the Halo franchise a lot more popular n gr8. Every feature of Halo was given a 
 huge boost n increased a notch higher to produce this immortal piece of software that we lovably 
 call Halo 2...... Hats off to Bungie.
  
  what i dont like about this game is only the exorbitant requirements to run it which makes it a 
 rather expensive affair, but if one can get their hands on this, it offers an indelible experience 
 sure to last for a lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2 for the PC was a great game, It was better than Halo 2 for the xbox, but it wasn't 4 years 
 better. The graphics were improved a tiny bit and everything was polished for Windows live, but 
 the game was too old to really do much. I enjoyed it just as much as I enjoyed the original halo 
 2, and the new maps that could be bigger than the other ones were great, but overall, it wasn't 
 something I wanted to buy vista ultimate for (I did get vista because Ultimate costs $40 for me) . 
 The game was fun, but it didn't pack the punch I had expected. I never really figured out the map 
 editor, and the multiplayer died down once people realized they had the same content on their dusty 
 old xboxes so I ended up playing the single-player campaign most of the time. Overall, the game 
 was not only just as good as Halo 2, it was better, it just wasn't THAT much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: primative_tribe
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  i recently purchased a copy of halo 2 2 hand because i never buy a game new unless its a really 
 good game that i want badly so i went to install halo 2 and didn't have a problem until i came 
 to activate it where it claimed that the product key had basically been used to many times so i 
 phoned the Microsoft support team to get a new product key and the informed me that i couldn't 
 get a new one because i had bought the game second hand and that it was illegal even though i had 
 bought it from a high street shop so eventually after taking the time to talk to them I've ended 
 up phoning them because i said i have upgraded my PC and i doesn't reconise my hardware, because 
 the way it works it registers a code on you hardware but if you have to format your harddrive you 
 lose this coding or is you upgrade you PC.
  
  so finally when i got to playing it i found that there was hardly any difference and i can't believe 
 it took them all this time to produce this and release it I found this game to be one of the most 
 disappointing games I've played for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathcage1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  it's just so addictive, you have t keep playing in the so well known multi-player.
  As it was never really meant to be played in single player, the SP is far from good. But who cares 
 it's the best MP game for PC-gamers at this very moment.
  although the graphics aren't quite as good, certainly not for a guy who has a 8800 GTX graphical 
 card. But it's quite alright for people who have a mid range system.
  
  decision: best MP game ever for PC-gamers, just too bad there isn't a halo 3 or 4 for on the PC. 
 It would be great. lol why do reviews have to be that long :s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinfirst002
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  What you expect from Halo 2 is there, good gameplay and story. The graphics are just a tiny little 
 better than the Xbox version but so little most people would not realize it. I do not think the 
 game is that well optimized since it is for the PC; there are still low frame rates even though 
 the graphics are not that good. The developer did a great job at fine-tuning it and making it the 
 same as the original Xbox game, this includes Easter eggs, exploits, minor bugs, etc. This means 
 that you can use the exact walkthrough for Halo 2 Xbox for playing on the PC. The game starts to 
 get boring sooner than I expected since the current standard for games are higher. Personally, 
 I think this games price tag is not worth it; Lost Planet would be a cheaper and better game to 
 play on the PC instead. Halo 2 for PC is also a little too late for it to come out. However, if 
 you never played Halo 2 before, never heard of the story, never owned the game or if you do not 
 have an Xbox, I recommend you to get this game if you are more of a PC fan, but be aware of the 
 worst cliffhanger ending in the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2 is the sequel to the best selling Xbox game of all times, Halo: Combat Evolved and has been 
 released for the XBox in 2004, but finally arrives for the PC. In Halo 2 you'll continue the fight 
 against the alien union called the Covenant. This time, the Covenant reached Earth after the destruction 
 of Reach and Halo, they headed straight for Earth. So this time you'll fight on Earth, but also 
 in space, spacestations and, another Halo. ''Welcome back Master Chief!''
  
  The gameplay had some changes, like the dual-wielding of onehanded guns. Just simply walk over 
 a one handed gun with another onehanded gun, and press-hold the ''Y'' button or the ''Q'' button, 
 and you'll be able to fire both weapons with both trickers. There are also a lot of new other cool 
 weapons. Only the sad thing is, there's no more MA5B Assault Rilfe. New is also the AI of the Covenant 
 and UNSC troops. The UNSC marines can now drive any vehicle except the Scorpion Tank. The Covenant 
 Elites and Brutes can also highjack your vehicle and kick you off it. So you can see them cruise 
 away in your ride! But you can do the same of course, so just highjack another ride from a little 
 Grunt or Elite or Brute. So there's tons of new things that make the gameplay perfect.
  
  The visuals of Halo 2 are nice, but haven't got upgraded ever since the XBox version. Halo 2's 
 superb at any point of it's great ringworld and space worlds full of great nature and other habitats. 
 Also the light effects are great to look at. But within cutscenes, you'll see that the details 
 of buildings, other surroundings and troops ( including the Master Chief ) need to be loaded in 
 2 seconds, and that can be irritating. Not only within cutscenes, but also in-game. Just take a 
 look at a Ghost, and walk to it, and you'll see the shape changes. But, that was in the XBox version, 
 with Vista it has been reworked and taken care of.
  
  The sound has always been perfect and it will stay that way. Just go outside and compare the sound 
 of Halo 2 with the reallife sound, and then just go play Halo 2 again. And you'll hear no difference.
 
  
  Value. Although Halo 2 has great new online multiplayer, and cool new features, the single player 
 is a total let down for Halo fans and other single player lovers. So, in short, superb.
  
  Tilt, Halo 2 was supposed to be the best sequal game ever to the best game ever, Halo: Combat Evolved. 
 Things like highjacking, online multiplayer and dual wielding, Halo 2 is a nice game that has unique 
 moments, and hardcore action. The single player wasn't what it should have been, but it has it's 
 great moments and shouldn't be missed.
  
  Good points
  
  + Perfect sound effects with a awesome soundtrack.
  + Dual-wielding.
  + Highjacking.
  + Multiplayer 
 can be customized and has many fun features.
  + Live.
  + Custom games and map editor.
  
  Bad points
  
  - Dissapointing storyline...
  - Very short campaign.
  - The Arbiter...
 
  - Kinda weird ending. 
  - Graphics are dated.
  - Vista only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcavoybn
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The game is good for anybody who has vista (halo 1 will not work) and doesn't have an Xbox. If 
 you have an Xbox get he game on that system. Lots of fun to be had. Graphics Aren't wonderful unless 
 you have like a Nvidia geforce 7000 . Also on the back of the box the equirements say you need 
 1gb of RAM. My computer has 2gb of RAM and the game still lags. g good gamegood gamegood gamegood 
 gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood 
 gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood 
 gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood 
 gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood 
 gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood gamegood game. ood 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Well, not much to say here... This game is basically just Halo 2 for the X-Box, ported to the PC. 
 Sure, it has a few new maps, and some new weapons, but it doesn't really change the game at all... 
 This is basically Halo 2.5. Now, that said, it is just like the original, and the original was 
 GREAT, hence this game is GREAT, but don't expect anything new from it, just get use to using the 
 mouse, instead of a controller, which surprisingly, is a little bit harder to do, yet not quite 
 as hard as in Halo PC... All you need to know is, if you want a good game, then buy this one......... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andres_nk1
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  When I played Halo: Combat Evolved, i was stuned, excelent production, Storyline, graphic, action 
 (the vehicles, covenent or human) , from the first moment you feel somethig special about this game, 
 I really Love it. Played in storyline like 5 times.
  
  Talking a bout this production, Im very disapointed , the worst graphic, the driving is the slowest 
 I ever proved, literately you got to move your hand almost 30cm to make a 180&ordm; turn, this 
 game look like an expansion of the first, the only new thing that I get to see was the double handed 
 guns, but DONT WASTE YOUR MONEY!!!!!. Hopefully i tested this game before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonytehtiger
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Halo 2 is an average FPS whose only real claim to fame is that the other xbox titles suck. When 
 it comes to the PC three years later, its underwhelming. Just because its not anything special 
 doesn't mean it sucks though.
  
  First off, the graphics. Though the textures and such were improved over xbox, the game shows its 
 age. Also, these graphics are incredible resource hogs. My comp isn't the best, but I can max and 
 play hl2 and the expansion and lost coast at consistent frames with no lag or whatnot. This game 
 completely halts to a slowdown when I tried it on max AA and resolution. Supreme Commander ran 
 better than this. For a game that doesn't look better than Half Life 2, its system requirement 
 are too high. They should have optimized it more.
  
  Sound: Overall, I think the sounds are slightly worse than in Halo. The music is similar, but I 
 liked it less than in the original. The weapons sound pretty good except for the SMG which sounds 
 like some sort of pellet gun. The voice acting is pretty much the same as in Halo, which is to 
 say pretty good. However the Covenant enemies sound strange speaking english. Gameplay: Pretty 
 much the same as in Halo. You can dual wield weapons which is pretty interesting, and there are 
 more vehicle sequences. The AI has improved over Halo, and allies don't die as fast as they did. 
 They still die pretty quickly, just not as quickly as in Halo. They also have improved vehicle 
 driving ability and usually don't flip over. Some new weapons add some more fun to the game, and 
 the level design has VASTLY improved over Halo.
  
  Overall: Halo 2 isn't a bad game, and in fact it is quite fun. However, it is not the best FPS 
 ever, not even close. The story development is better than in Halo, but is still not up to par 
 in my opinion. Cortana and the other characters are pretty well developed, though it would be fun 
 to have them around more. I have to say my favorite character is Sergeant Johnson, with Cortana 
 a close second. I'm a sucker for lighthearted humor. Character development helps build immersion, 
 and I think Halo could use more of that. I also liked the introduction of Gravemind, though I wish 
 more characters would be as unique as he/it is. Also, making Vista a requirement is such an obvious 
 ploy that I sometimes wonder if Microsoft hires apes to do their thinking. I played this on XP, 
 and I am pretty sure many others did as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Spartan192
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I never get tired of the Halo games, and I mean never. I must have beat both games single player 
 campaigns at leat 20-25 times each on PC and Xbox. So I got my new gaming rig with vista and I 
 thought, what better game to get than Halo 2 Vista? Well after finally getting all of the Live 
 bugs fixed (More on that later) I was neither impressed or dissapointed. Ok so here is the main 
 review:
  
  GRAPHICS
  -------------------------------------------------
  This is the biggest difference between the Xbox and PC games. The textures have been sharpened 
 up quite a bit and the intoduction of 4x anti-alanising makes the aging game look slightly newer. 
 If you end up getting it make sure to use the 4x anti-alanising because this should have almost 
 been part of the default graphics code.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  --------------------------------------------------
  The same game from the Xbox. Covenant and 
 Flood to kill, lackluster ending, its all there. Even the glitches which one (The Scarab gun) has 
 become an achievment for 20GP.
  
  CONTROLS
  --------------------------------------------------
  They are your standard PC FPS controls, not 
 much different. But in multiplayer if someone is using the Wireless Controller Adapter with a 360 
 controller they will get an auto aim feature that was supposed to balance the mouse and keyboards 
 precision but in CQ battles wih the shotgun or sword it seems unberably cheap.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  --------------------------------------------------
  Many people have had a problem 
 with the Games for Windows Live service, me among them. I will not go in depth into the many problems 
 but needless to say it was almost more trouble than its worth. Other than that any of the features 
 that are exclusive to the PC game require a Gold account such as Quick Match, Multiplayer Acheivments 
 and the ability to play with 360 owners.
  
  So as a summary I give:
  Graphics= 8.0
  Sound= 8.0
  Single Player= 7.0
  Controls= 7.5
  Multiplayer= 7.5
  
  Overall= 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Halo was, and still is, a great game - providing hours of great gameplay with a loud and really 
 satisfying pistol :D and aliens of all types (who had absolutely brilliant voices, i might add) .
 
  
  Halo 2 is different though. I don't really know how to describe it properly expect that... contrary 
 to halo 1... it's not a great game - it's just... fun. I, personally, really enjoy this game as 
 it is a fun shooter with some awesome new weapons - but when you really think about it, Halo 2 
 isn't all that good. The storyline isn't satisfying at all... it's somewhat unoriginal as it seems 
 pretty much the same as Halo 1. Nevertheless it's great if you just want to blast the **** out 
 of some more covenant then it gives some enjoyable game time. Watch out though... if you're a Halo 
 fanatic then you may be disappointed by this second installment in the pc series.
  
  Graphics: by today's high standard, the graphics are poor, and apparently are no better than the 
 older xbox version. They certainly don't warrant it being called a next-gen game .
  
  Sound: the sound remains great, with more hilarious covenant comments, although the game perhaps 
 lacks a nice loud gun like the Halo 1 assault rifle.
  
  Gameplay: the AI seems to have been improved a lot since Halo 1, and now cant just blast your way 
 through a room full of elites. Tactics such as hiding and throwing grenades around corners come 
 into play more than before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazgolu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  When Bungie released Halo to Xbox around six years ago, it instantly became one of the most popular 
 FPS-game for consoles. Three years later came the follow-up and that one became a great profit 
 for the developers.
  
  The PC-version of Halo showed up in 2003 and recieved a mixed opinion. I thought that the Xbox-version 
 was great in multiplayer but not much more. I liked the story and campaign aswell, but that was 
 not the strong side of the game. My opinion about the PC-porting was more positive though. I am 
 the type that consider FPS are not belonging on consoles and that is why I liked the PC-version 
 better, even if the game just had an average story.
  
  It's been around a half-year (I think) since Microsoft published their new operative-system. With 
 the new creation there was also a new Direct X-version published, and a new mark for games, Games 
 for Windows . The new functions that Vista offers for games specially designed for the operativ-system 
 are, besides a new Direct X-version, somewhat trivial: a gamebrowser and a so called Live-service 
 that Xbox 360-users recognize. So far you can't count the number of games that support the Live-service, 
 and one of them are Halo 2 that now are out on PC, two and a half year after the Xbox-version.
 
  
  --------
  
  The Covenant are back
  
  By story, Halo 2 is a direct sequel where part one ended. The Covenant are back and begins the 
 game with an attack against the gigantic space-carried guns that lays in orbit around the Halo 
 that works as a first protection against Covenants. The attack takes place under a ceremony on 
 Cairo Station whare you in the role as Master Chief gets a distinction for your deeds in the first 
 Halo-game. After the intriducing attack, the Covenant starts to dock with their stations and fills 
 them fully with footmen.
  
  After the introduction there are no questions, it is action from the firsta moment. You, together 
 with the soldiers onboard the station, finally succeed to resist the invaders. The battle then 
 continues in the Halo.
  
  My first impression of Halo 2: s single-player campain is how alike it is from the first game. Sure, 
 the game is a direct sequel of the tre year older original, but I would expect it to be more unique. 
 You have for example the ability to dual-wield some weapons, but that is just a small bonus. It 
 is hard to say exactly what is unsatisfying. After a while the fights become very repetitive, rigid 
 and without finess. It is always full of action, but I rarely get surprised by the same enemies 
 that are coming from every possible direction.
  
  --------
  
  Now there wasn't the single-player that made Halo 2 popular. With the so called Live-service, Halo 
 2 is on PC a different multiplayer-experience compared to the 360-version. If you rather prefer 
 to play FPS -games with an Xbox 360-controller, you get a litte aid - autoaim! Another reason I 
 don't think FPS-games belong to consoles.
  
  After some multi-playing in Halo 2, I can say that it is much more fun than the single-player. 
 There are a total of 7-modes to choose between, and they vary between simple Deathmatch and Capture-the-flag. 
 Though here is another track of the games age and console-background. The tempo is way too slow. 
 Still, the multiplayer-mode is the most advanced part of the game, with tons of maps and more varied 
 gametypes. In other words, a little over average experience.
  
  --------
  
  Windows Vista-exclusive
  - Both good and bad, but mostly bad
  
  Halo 2 is the first Windows 
 Vista-exclusive game. Why, is almost incomprehensible (thank you, translation-site) . Microsofts 
 recipe seemed to have been: take a three year old game, make it a little better, and release it 
 on a new operative-system that you not yet need. That is Halo 2 in a nutshell.
  
  With the Vista-exclusivity there are also higher system-requirements, something that could have 
 been avoided if they had skipped the Requires Windows Vista -mark. The only reason that I can see 
 is that this game is Vista-exclusive because of the new Live-service. After all, it works good, 
 but to make commercial for it with Halo 2 and with such a high price (around 500 swedish kronor 
 (1 dollar = 7 kronor. Practice your maths -section ;p) for one years gold-membership) Microsoft 
 really shoots themselves in the foot, not just one time, but two.
  
  So in the end of my review of Halo 2 for Windows Vista, I'm not sure where to start. I can understand 
 why this game became a success on Xbox, but it doesn't belong on a modern PC. This is like old 
 food in a new package, hyped to the skies in an attempt to give Microsofts new operativesystem 
 a boost up. Also, if it was released to Windows XP, I would have a different opinion about it. 
 The game is not bad, it is just an old game that's not designed for a PC. If you want to play Halo 
 2, do it on Xbox instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slappymoe66
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I just found the Multiplayer to be very annoying and frustrating.
  
  Like youd have to shoot 16 headshots to kill and its just not fun.
  
  And MicroSoft made it 
 so that its just annoying to someone who doesnt want to pay monthly for friendlists and crap like 
 that.
  
  There are just annoying pop ups that say features you dont have and theres no way to turn it off. 
 And other things like you have to subscribe to make your own games. Thats explotation at its best. 
 If your already a gold windows live subscriber then this is nothing to you but still the multiplayer 
 is just really bad.
  
  As for story mode I have know complaints. Good solid story great gameplay and graphics.
  
  
 For the most part I'm going to keep betraying on Halo trial.
  
  My record in: Halo 2 Vista usually 12 kills 24 deaths 22 assists
  
  Halo/Trail 125 kills 11 
 deaths 2 assists 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbayay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  What really pisses me off is that Halo 2 is finally out for PC, everyone was really excited for 
 it, then all of the sudden everyone is b****ing around about how the game came out late and the 
 graphics don't follow up with todays games (especially gamespot) . Like holy flippen crap, obviously 
 the graphics don't follow up, it's an old game! The graphics are actually very good, if you guys 
 were expecting much more out of the graphics from an old title, then you guys are idiots! The gameplay 
 is smooth and easy. The controls for the keyboard work perfectly. The enemies are fun to kill, 
 and you've got much more animation then the original Halo 1. The missions are fun, and some are 
 challenging. Multiplayer is also a great feature of the game, giving you a chance to play with 
 friends. If you guys are looking for a great first person shooter for vista, this is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NADERG
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  the very begining of the game makes u want to play even more and not stop
  and the fact that u can change from the master chief to the orbitor is so cool too. the only, one 
 problem is that when u get stuck or can't find a way out of the place, u tend to stop playing the 
 game. The multiplayer is awesome, but it takes getting used to, a long while before u can actually 
 call urself an ok player seriously , when u start off in multiplayer, well it's not exactly a walk 
 in the park... more like a walk in hell... it's really hard... but really fun.
  
  oh and P. S. the flood is so much damn scarier omg it's not even funny!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus1
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  After years of waiting for Halo 2 on the PC It arrives. With one heck of an expensive thud. I first 
 fired up single player to be greeted with three year old graphics. Even thought the game requires 
 Vista it doesn't support Direct X 10. Which i find just baffling. Well I bought it, so I soldered 
 on. After the first two hours I was treated to a strange clicking sound in my rear and center speakers. 
 This sound would only stay for about two minutes and only pop up at random times. But it was extremely 
 annoying. Also you can barely hear Cortana over the radio about half the time. The gameplay shows 
 off what made Halo famous. The story is great and its very fun to play. However the Camping is 
 to short way too short. And after playing it I went online to play multiplayer and thats when I 
 got buyers remorse. You receive a free month of Live gold. I say free cause at an MSRP of $59 USD 
 free becomes relative. I didn't even bother playing multiplayer cause things like player matching, 
 achievements and player search, have always and should always be free. Maybe xbox owners don't 
 mind coughing out money casuse they don't know any better but we PC owners do.
  
  So what can Microsft do next time? 1. Release it earlier
  2. Ensure that bugs dont get ported
 
  3. Make multiplayer free!!!!
  
  My advice is to do what i did got to Amazon and buy ti new and cheaply at $30 USD. But You really 
 should wait till it goes down to about $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xman_mha
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps somewhat unfairly for Halo2, I was playing Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl on and off while 
 playing this game. Consequently the two contrasted each other quite markedly. For Example: while 
 Stalker was stark and very gritty, Halo 2 was some clinically sanitized kids game. The scenarios 
 in Stalker were many and varied. Whereas Halo 2 produced a much less emotionally intensive game 
 play experience. In fact - I was hardly even aware of the games end - in terms of intensity and 
 excitement. It just ended - and I was pleased that was the case. Halo 2 seemed to drag on and on 
 and by comparison as a means of entertainment, it was rather boring and uninspiring. Don't get 
 me wrong - Stalker is no creation of perfection either, but it is a much more rewarding and entertaining 
 experience. The storyline does get a little lost at the end. However, lets remember that while 
 all this is very subjective. Gaming is about entertainment and value for money in relation to that.
 
  Halo 2 did not deliver (for me) anywhere the level of excitement and entertainment that Stalker 
 did. While I appreciate the level of intensive man hour labor involved in producing the game (Halo 
 2) . I can not help surrendering to the temptation to come to the conclusion that the Halo 2 Developers 
 simply have run out of steam with this story. Halo 2 game design and styling appeared more child-like 
 and Disneyland than anything else. Given it is meant to be an environment for a FPS game, sanitizing 
 it to the extent that is obvious (when compared to Stalker) - for example - has quickly used up 
 any potential in the game to attract me to purchase the next release. Halo 2 for me joins what 
 is becoming a very quickly lengthening list of recent game releases, that really are rubbish. Try 
 a review search of the most popular games and you will find very few released in the last year 
 or so in the top ten if any. Why is that? Is it simply too much reliance on technology and not 
 enough on creativity, innovation where telling a good story and surprising the gamer without using 
 the same old Hollywood style attempts and methods to entertain.
  
  The PC gaming environment seems to have become very much a reflection of the US driven film industry. 
 Poorly conceived, reliant on formula driven style production design. Where fresh ideas and thoughts 
 seem to be in very short supply. It is all about the money, and the money to produce rich gaming 
 environments that entertain appears to be stuck in reverse. Well done the Stalker Game development 
 Team. Microsoft Game Developers - time for a serious pay cut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are Master Chief and The Arbiter. As Master Chief you must save Earth from the Covenant. 
 As The Arbiter you must destroy the flood and the puny human race.
  
  Graphics: Average on PC terms but could look a whole lot better.
  
  Audio: Average, funny covenant 
 voice-overs.
  
  Missions: A wide range of objectives, kill the enemies to get to buttons, destroy the flood, etc.
 
  
  Controls: Common FPS WASD control, Can't map to your liking that is unacceptable
  
  Features: Great gameplay, good story, what you expect from the Halo Series
  
  A. I.: usually 
 smart, you will find yourself saying I can't believe I just got owned by that covenant a few times.
 
  
  Loading Times: A long load on startup and medium length between levels.
  
  Multiplayer: Makes the games worth it but doesn't compare to other PC Multiplayer games.
  
 
  Requirements: Medium High
  
  Weapons: A wide range, I like the sword and battle rifle the best.
  
  The Good: A worthy sequel 
 to Halo: Combat Evolved.
  
  The Bad: It looking and feeling so bad compared to the Xbox game that was released 2 YEARS ago.
 
  
  The Ugly: Requiring Vista. Why Microsoft/Bungie? Why?
  
  Replay Ability: Single Player once or twice, MP can get really into it.
  
  The Bottom Line: 
 A sad Port from the Xbox that should have been a bar higher than this release actually was. This 
 doesn't really help the Games For Windows incentive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaabnaze83
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Halo 2 finally came to PC with new graphics, but does this means that it's better than the XBox 
 version?
  
  PROS: Is Halo, Great campaign game and story line that answers some questions about the original 
 Halo game, the floods and the Covenants, New enemies and weapons (now you can carry two weapons 
 on different hands) , Master Chief story and Covenant Arbiter story.
  
  CONTRAS: The price ($49.99) , The textures althought better they aren't that amazing in these times, 
 needs Windows Vista to play it, the abrupt end of the game.
  
  Halo 2 came too late on PC, but it's a war that you want to continue because this isn't a bad game 
 is only a old game in a new computer technology age.
  
  PD: Pardon my english! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  The Halo series has achieved legendary status on the XBox, and with good reason. The first game 
 is probably the finest console shooter ever made. It featured an unparalleled combination of weapon 
 balance, enemy AI, great use of vehicles, and an unforgettable soundtrack. It also featured an 
 excellent regenerating shields mechanic that was so successful that it has become a popular feature 
 emulated by many other shooters. A port of Halo came to the PC in 2003, and even though the port 
 seemed sloppy, it was still an enjoyable experience, despite poor frame rates and repetitive level 
 design.
  
  Halo 2 came out for the XBox in 2004, and now it arrives on the PC in 2007. In the past three and 
 a half years, PC gamers have played Far Cry, Painkiller, UT2004, Half-Life 2, Doom 3, F. E. A. R., 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R., and Battlefield 2. These games have featured terrific graphics, controls, and/or 
 gameplay depth. The standards for a PC shooter have increased substantially, but youll be sorry 
 to find that the quality for Halo 2 hasnt. It is an outdated game with a few major flaws, like 
 badly outdated graphics. Fortunately, the underlying gameplay mechanics are already so good that 
 the game still can be enjoyable. If this game had been available on XP for a budget price, it would 
 be an excellent choice. However, this game is a full-priced Vista exclusive. It is $10 more than 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R., a game that is superior in a lot of ways. Its a game that you are supposed to 
 upgrade your PC for. It should be a killer app for the new operating system, but instead, its 
 a showcase for six year old technology. As just a first person shooter, its a good game. As a 
 showcase for the future of PC gaming, its a complete failure.
  
  If you are upgrading your computer to take advantage of new technology, then what is one feature 
 that you expect, perhaps more than any other? Graphics. If you are going to spend money on your 
 computer for a new game, it should look great. Halo 2 doesnt look great. It doesnt even look 
 good. It doesnt even look mediocre. It looks bad. Halo 2 is a very ugly game. It is the ugliest 
 game that I have seen on the PC in a long time. The engine was built for old hardware, and it was 
 filled with mediocre artwork. Environments are boringly crafted with minimal detail, square shapes, 
 and flat surfaces everywhere, and it is all textured with a low detail, blurry-looking covering. 
 Enemies and NPCs are have low polygon counts, like something out of the year 2001 and special 
 effects like explosion are archaic and unimpressive. The only part of this game that looks good 
 is the Master Chief  as long as the camera is about ten feet away. Ports from the original X-Box 
 tend to look worse than native PC games, but Halo 2 looks bad, even for an X-Box port. I can think 
 of at least a dozen games developed for last generation consoles that look far better than this 
 one (e. g. Fable, Jade Empire, the Prince of Persia series) .
  
  The better part of Halo 2s presentation is the audio. The weapon sounds have been upgraded since 
 the first game -- especially the sub-machine gun, which sounds as powerful as it should. The voice 
 acting and writing are generally pretty good. However, there is one major disappointment with the 
 audio  the soundtrack. The first game had an unforgettable and spectacular soundtrack that added 
 an element of drama to all of the games major action sequences. Halo 2s soundtrack falls completely 
 flat and it doesnt include any memorable tracks. The sound bites from fellow Marines and the Covenant 
 arent as entertaining this time around either, and all of the Elites speak English. They sound 
 rather dumb doing this.
  
  Ultimately gameplay should trump presentation, and youll be happy to konw that it is still in 
 great shape. Halo had some excellent gameplay mechanics, so what you would expect from a sequel 
 is that same core, but with a few refinements. In this regard, Halo 2 delivers. The AI is still 
 very impressive, especially in close quarters. There are a couple of great new weapons that round 
 out your arsenal. The battle rifle is like a good all-purpose weapon with medium range sniper capability, 
 and the energy sword is an extremely powerful one-shot kill weapon that makes you deadly up close. 
 The energy sword, especially, is a ton of fun to use, since now you have a defense against those 
 annoying Covenant Elites when they get close to you. The game also still only gives you two weapons 
 slots, but it does allow for dual-wielding of small weapons. You are going to need this ability, 
 because Halo 2 is harder than the first game. Your shields dont seem to take as much damage, and 
 you no longer have a health bar. Once your shields are gone, you die almost immediately. As if 
 that werent enough, the Flood are much faster and smarter in this game. They use more weapons 
 and later, they use vehicles and turrets. Veterans of the first game will still have trouble on 
 the higher difficulty levels. Ultimately, the Halo series has some of the best firefights in the 
 genre. Unscripted, tactical battles can turn an otherwise mediocre game into a good one. The enemy 
 AI, the regenerating shields, the superb weapon balance, the seamless integration of vehicles  
 they all combine to create some unforgettable action that never plays out the same way twice. If 
 a battle is too hard, you can always approach it in an entirely different way. As with Serious 
 Sam and F. E. A. R., the game can remain fun even without a lot of variety in the level design.
  
  Insanely repetitive level design was the Achilles Heel of the first game. It has been improved 
 for Halo 2, although its still not a strength. The hour long sequences through copy-and-paste 
 empty rooms and hallways have been cut down substantially. A higher percentage of Halo 2 involves 
 battling with vehicles and teammates, and the game changes the scenery and the set-ups much more 
 often. The levels are still rather featureless and empty though, and by the end of the game youll 
 be tired of seeing the same grey ramps and purple blocks over and over again.
  
  It doesnt help the game that Halo 2s story is pretty much worthless. The game alternates back 
 and forth between the human and Convenant perspective. By about halfway through the game, the story 
 is a convoluted mess that makes little sense. When you get to the end and kill the games big villain (?) , 
 the game just sort of ends. The single player campaign is kind of a standard length 10-12 hour 
 adventure without any satisfying narrative.
  
  In 2006, Microsoft announced a renewed focus on PC gaming and a revival in the platform. As a Vista 
 exclusive, Halo 2 seems to have been chosen to spearhead this Renaissance. This decision shows 
 a stunning lack of insight into the standards that PC gamers have in 2007 for gameplay and graphics, 
 and that is why Halo 2 is a failure as this lead game. Its a good FPS and a functional port, so 
 Halo 2 would be marginally worth buying at full price for Windows XP. It is certainly not worth 
 upgrading your machine to Vista for. Perhaps after you have upgraded to Vista and played other 
 games first, Halo 2 may be worth getting out of the bargain bin. Hopefully, PC gamers wont have 
 to wait until 2010 to play Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Halo: combat evolved was a fantastic game. It delivered a new feel to the FPS genre due to its 
 good use of vehicles, especially in multi-player, its special halo environment, and its great game-play. 
 Its storyline was simple interesting and fun ..... enough to make you never feel bored.
  
  Moving on to Halo 2, it succeeds to deliver a portion of the good old stuff, but at times it felt 
 a little bit repetitive, Where you go on to another halo... visit another halo library and so on....
 
  
  The game-play is the same ... which also becomes boring at times.. but enough to keep you going 
 throughout the game. I really liked playing as that covinant character more than playing as a human
 
  
  The sound is good just like the first halo...
  Moving on to the graphics... As known the graphics are not as good as 2007's games are.... but in 
 fact the graphics were ok, the characters were really good, well detailed and great lighting effects. 
 On the other hand the environments were poorly detailed and blurry.
  
  The Game is not as good as the first but not bad as well, it is a fun simple game. A game played 
 to consume time, if you have nothing better to do.
  
  ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sutherlandc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, plain and simple. There are other games being reviewed on Gamespot that score 
 higher than Halo 2, and I've played many of them, but they don't seem as fun.
  
  This game is the most fun PC game right now IMHO, and the graphics aren't bad at all, especially 
 when turned up to make things look nice.
  
  This game sounds great, the music is very intense and soft in all the right parts, unlike other 
 games.
  
  I like how you can go to other levels and play them over and over.
  
  The multiplayer is very, very good. Exciting is the word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horney89
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Well compared to some complaints Halo2 has for its age some pretty good graphics but maybe at the 
 end of the day it all depends on what hardware you got going on.
  
  So anyways not really got into the single player mode as it seems not all that action packed and 
 thrilling to myself but some of you may feel different towards this and others of you may agree 
 but it all seems like your just roaming around with a few enemy bad guys thrown in here and there 
 and almost every computer controlled character that follows me around and this may just be because 
 I dont care about them but there basically dead when they touchdown on the ground. All things 
 considered am sure this may pick up further into the game which at some point may get around to.
 
  
  The main selling point that drawn me in was the xbox360 control factor and the multiplayer mode 
 which at times can be a little hectic but all good fun, you may find some games empty on multiplayer 
 but they do tend to fill up pretty fast with some good players ready to pounce. More on the controller 
 point would be having all the controls to hand without moving one hand half way across the keyboard 
 to perform it so its all rather quick game play and I suppose in some way provides a better ability 
 to kill your enemy whilst jumping through the air. Thanx for reading my review is all I can say 
 an happy gaming :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  For anyone that has been hiding under a rock since mid 1999, Halo 2 is the follow up to the hugely 
 successful Halo: Combat Evolved that came out in 2002. Halo is one of those games that have become 
 a cultural phenomenon invading its way into action figures, books and even posters. It has been 
 a hailed as the greatest FPS shooter to hit the Xbox, but has not lived up to that expectation 
 on the PC. With Halo 2 hitting the PC circuit now, it is a fun game, but still falls far from being 
 the pinnacle FPS shooter that it could be on the PC.
  
  You start the game out in the familiar shoes of Master Chief. The Chief and Sarge have made it 
 back to Earth and are going through a celebration for their heroism, when an advance fleet of the 
 Covenant show up and crash the party. After the initial attack, you switch characters and start 
 playing as The Arbitor. The Arbitor was the main general responsible for the protection of the 
 first Halo ring that was destroyed in the first game. He has been given a scarlet letter and given 
 the role of Arbitor to root out the false prophets of the Covenant. The Flood makes an appearance 
 as well, being brought to the Halo ring by a false prophet. At first, the two different characters 
 did not make a lot of sense. It felt like a cheap plot device, but after playing through the full 
 game and seeing the whole story unfold, it was a wise decision to include the Arbitor path as a 
 playable element of the story. Not only do you see the battle from another side, you get to learn 
 a little more about what makes the Covenant tick and how their religious structure works. The story 
 is what has always made me enjoy the average play of first Halo and what really hooked me into 
 Halo 2. The twists and turns and betrayals come at you fast and furious and will keep you playing 
 to find out what is going to happen next. Graphically, the game is a mixed bag. Essentially, the 
 PC got the exact same game as the people that played in on an Xbox, two years ago. There have been 
 no real improvements in the look of the game. Character models look sharp to say the least. I did 
 like the sense of emotion that was displayed on the faces of the characters. And the main Brute 
 was a visual spectacle. Weapon blasts were also done nicely. Plasma Grenades have a nice pulse 
 blast, while rockets explode in a cloud of thick dust. But all of this is nothing that we have 
 not already witnessed in other games in the past two years on a PC. There is a nice mix of outdoor 
 and indoor environments, but the textures are reused so often, I had a tendency to get lost. I 
 could never always figure out which way I had come from because the room would look almost the 
 exact same as the other one I had just been in. A game that was delayed from the Xbox to the PC 
 for two years should have had more done to spruce up the graphics.
  
  Ambient sound has always been a factor in Halo and it is the same in Halo 2. While playing the 
 game, hearing the echo of a faint voice, or the sliding of doors up ahead, it always has your head 
 turning, wondering where the next menace is coming from. Walking into a dark room, and hearing 
 a growl of the Flood made me hit the flashlight and start looking for the rush of bad guys. Music 
 in the background is present most of the game and includes the haunting main theme song along with 
 a mix of rock tracks and classical pieces. The music mixes together quite nicely and the right 
 type of music plays at the right points. Weapon sounds are solid and give the player a fulfilling 
 sound. Rock off a blast from a shotgun and it gives a resounding blast. Fire off a plasma rifle 
 and you are rewarded with a high pitched whine as it cuts through the air like a knife.
  
  While the game has been highly anticipated by PC users, even bigger is the fact that this was 
 a launch title for the new Games for Windows Live campaign. You can view the Live menu at any time 
 just by pressing the Home key or from the main menu by pressing the guide button. Live really adds 
 to the experience of the game. It was cool to see my friends pop up when they came online. And 
 it was a snap to send them messages through the Live system. The system does need some work however. 
 While achievements were huge and seeing them add to my total Gamerscore was sweet, it never gave 
 me an indication of what the achievement was for. All you get is an Achievement Unlocked message 
 at the bottom of the screen. Also, Live is only available from inside the game. In the beginning, 
 this is acceptable, but at some point, it needs to become part of the operating system. But that 
 is more about Live in general and not so much about the game. But overall, I hope more games sign 
 on to this, as getting achievements rocks and will add so much to the game in regards playing the 
 game several times to get all the possible achievements. It could even help with piracy as to get 
 achievements; you have to have the game.
  
  Halo 2 really shines when it comes to the multiplayer component. Having a gold membership already 
 to Live, it was as easy as selecting Live from the main menu and Quick Match. Within 20 seconds 
 I was joining a game on a gold level server. Multiplayer is fast and furious and is designed for 
 those that just want to shoot and kill. No real team strategy is involved here. It is every man 
 for himself. There are several play type and about two dozen maps to play through. Multiplayer 
 achievements are also available and for the most part, are easy to get. It does nothing new in 
 regards to the multiplayer genre itself, but the fact that I can jump into a game faster that any 
 other game in the past makes for a satisfying experience. The only thing that flawed the whole 
 experience is the juvenile crowds. This seems to have carried over from the console side as I have 
 heard countless times about how people start dropping f-bombs and complaining about cheaters and 
 dropping hate bombs on anyone that makes a small mistake. My first day playing Halo 2 online resulted 
 in at least a dozen people calling me an a-hole, because I was not helping in the team scoring. 
 This was after two matches of playing multiplayer. So while multiplayer has gotten easier to get 
 into, it has not taken care of the idiots that inhabit the rooms.
  
  While my experience with Halo 2 was good, there are some noteworthy problems that may deter some 
 people from taking the jump. The first is the requirement of Vista. Yes, you will have to break 
 down and install Vista. You will not play this game on XP unless you are willing to break the Terms 
 of Service of the game. It is also extremely buggy. Several times, it caused a failure of the graphics 
 card driver or crashed to the desktop. Twice it rebooted my machine. Also, a huge irritation was 
 the fact that I would finish a level, and then get a message telling me that I was not logged into 
 Live and that I could not gain the achievements I had earned unless I logged in and played through 
 the level again. This is hugely disappointing after playing through some of the more difficult 
 levels. This is not an issue on the console side of the fence, so it is something that should be 
 fixed as it disrupts the flow of the game.
  
  The biggest problem that the game has is the fact it brings nothing new to the PC players. No 
 extra levels or plot. Beyond the great story, the action is rather basic and never challenges the 
 player. You never have to worry about death, because your shield regenerates rather quickly and 
 enemies never seem to stack up too much to cause any difficulty with the exception of three points 
 in the game. A lot of this leads back to the lack of competition in the FPS arena on the console 
 side. The PC offers the player a plethora of FPS games for the player, and when compared against 
 those game, Halo 2 just seems average.
  
  Overall, Halo 2 provides a great story that attempts to draw you past the rather average play 
 of the game. The multiplayer component really shines and with the combination of Games for Windows 
 Live, it saves the game from being a completely average experience. This is a game that waited 
 for two years to come to the PC and never quite lives up to the hype that was built during that 
 wait. It is a good game, but not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  There are two kinds of gamers out there: those who played Halo 2 on the Xbox and those who haven't. 
 For the first group, the actual value of this PC version is wholly dependent on their interest 
 in the editor. While it's not enough for me to recommend it, gamers who are keen to create their 
 own maps and game types will be rewarded by what the PC version of Halo 2 has to offer. Gameplay: 
 Good AI and interesting spaces to fight in. Love the new dual wield system.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were disappointing, has good art style but the actual execution is dated 
 and leaves a lot to be desired. Performance is poor.
  
  Sound: Best thing about the game, music and effects and voice acting are all well produced and 
 smartly used to support the mood of the game.
  
  Value: The campaign is short but multiplayer adds life. I don't like the pay to play service but 
 some people might. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game I love the plot and nice graphics but in total not really one of those great 
 games as you would expect since this is titled HALO 2 what was a smashing hit on the X-box.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty but I'm afraid that about it. Not as 
 AMAZING as you would expect from a VISTA only game. The effects are nice and you can see some good 
 lighting. The textures are pretty detailed but for some reason it looks very rugged the buildings 
 very square like lacking in detail.
  
  The weapons are cute and the Monsters are pretty well made good detail cool look about the most 
 amazing thing in the game actually are all the characters.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is actually fun. The new dual gun action is is relatively simple to use and made in 
 a manner that its also fun and adds to the diversity of action.
  some new guns give you a wide range of ways to fight you way through your enemies. So if you like 
 gunning like crazy or sniping a lot this is a game that gives you it all.
  
  AI:
  
  Nothing impressive here the aliens are mostly mindless charging and in some cases you might see 
 them going for cover or grouping but nothing too advanced.
  
  Sound:
  
  The gun sounds are original and not too annoying to the years leaving them enjoyable even for long 
 sessions of gameplay. The dialogs are acted very well which only adds.
  
  All in all this is not a bad game it just isn't great either and the fact that it is a VISTA only 
 game (retail) does not help one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraggoonX12
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I've wanted to play Halo 2 since launch but lacked a Xbox. So when I got News of H2V coming out 
 I went crazy. I would have bought H2V any way but improved it from it's xbox brother in a couple 
 of ways. It has better Graphics (if you got the PC to Handle it) . It has a Map Editor, Which Rules 
 BTW first off the game comes with 23 maps including 2 exclusive to the PC and with the Map Editor 
 there's no limit to how many maps you could play on. I have downloaded over 10 maps, each unique, 
 creative and fun. Some look look real nice... others not so much. It's not easy to make your own 
 Map so don't expect to make your own unless you know what your doing.
  
  The Windows LIVE is a great Upgrade to the prehistoric system of Halo PC. It includes Achivements, 
 which weren't on the Xbox version. You could play on Dedicated Severs or you could play in Custom 
 Games. Only Gold Accounts could play Custom Matches And Download Custom Maps. Silvers still Get 
 to play online on the Dedicated Severs. If you have a Xbox LIVE Gold Account, then your good You 
 could use your XBL on the PC.
  
  The Multiplayer is fun. I consider it better than That of Halo PC.
  
  The Only Flaws I find 
 On This Game are: Gold's Have more fun than Silvers and that the Game is only for Vista. Besides 
 That it's the best there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Bungie software and Microsoft Game studio 's Halo 2 available on P. C now after a long time . First 
 i'll point out the plus points of the game , then move on to its negetive aspects .
  
  Halo 2 is a Excellent FPS game and in some missions superior to original Halo .You get to play 
 the game as Masterchief and another new hero Arbiter who also rocks .Halo 2 graphics / visuals 
 are nice , AI okay . Halo 2's music and soundquality rocks . Voiceacting of the characters fine. 
 Cutscenes very cinematic and impressive . Halo 2 storyline continues from where Halo 1 story ended 
 . The main characters in the game ( Masterchief and Arbiter ) gets to ride Banshee , wraiths , 
 warthogs , Tanks , Ghosts etc in the game . You get cool weapons in the game plus the main characters 
 now can melee fight too. The main characters can now weild dual weapons too ( gun in each hand ) . 
 You get tremendous action in the game . Halo 2 for P. C is a port game from Xbox and it shows . 
 The game requires vista O/S to play it whereas many gamers still now use XP O/S and contended with 
 XP. Halo 1's multiplayer is still now popular online but Halo 2 's multiplayer is messed up . The 
 game needs a patch for further optimisations ingame . The gameplay ( single player campaigns ) 
 are short . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4Sith
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Well folks it is finally here Halo 2 on the PC. The first downfall of Halo 2 Vista is it is only 
 for Microsoft Windows Vista. This means people are getting fed up because they have to not just 
 upgrade their OS but possibly buy new PC components so Vista could run decent or run at all.
  
  Now let me tell you about the control feedback.
  
  Two words: It's Jumpy 
  
  The controls 
 with the look setting set at one still jumps around a lot to the point that I needed to buy an 
 Xbox 360 for windows controller. This is a problem because the game is a too expensive for a remake, 
 $50 dollars I mean come on Microsoft! and the controller cost another $40. With tax and all this 
 little gaming purchase cost me $110. Now to talk about the graphics.
  
  How do I put this in the most polite way....? Um Halo 2 Vista's graphics are so DirectX7. They 
 graphics are not great a make Microsoft look like they can't design character models.
  
  Now I shall bring up the sound.
  
  The sound in Halo 2 Vista is extraordinary! Hands Down this 
 is probably the one thing Microsoft and Bungie redid before rereleasing the game.
  
  Value do I want to talk about this?
  
  The value just sucks just plain sucks. $50 for an old 
 I mean old game. $40 for an optional controller (most will need) and for multi-player achievements 
 you need a LIVE subscription which cost $50 a year so don't expect to bring your girlfriend (and 
 girlfriends don't expect to do anything with your boyfriend if he has this game) for a while -_-.
 
  
  Tilt okay I still hate this attribute....
  
  Over all the game is good that is about all it can say good.
  
  Gameplay....... Oh Boy!
  
 
  Gameplay in Halo 2 Vista is a two edged sword..... One side has a soft pillow the other chops your 
 head off. The single-player is too damn difficult you need to unload like 120 bullets to take out 
 one little foe!
  
  On the other hand Multiplayer is the soft pillow side it is addictive and fun but may not be as 
 fun once the LIVE 1 month Gold trial runs out.
  
  Ok Now My Scoring:
  
  Gameplay 7 of 10 [2 for single player + 5 for multiplayer]
  Graphics 5 of 10 [I have seen much 
 better and much worse]
  Sound 10 of 10 [The best part of the game]
  Value 3 of 10 [The worst part of the game is buying the damn thing -_-]
  Tilt 6 of 10 [The average 
 of all the above scores]
  
  A grand total of 6.1 of 10.
  
  Final Remarks: Not the best, but not the worst. ~K-Wall A. K. A. SS4Sith 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waldo15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The game is good. By good I mean it has a solid single player storyline and campaign, although 
 the ending was less than perfect. And the multiplayer is decent but it's nothing at all like other 
 similar online-based games. Lack of people playing the game, servers, etc. make the multiplayer 
 a very limited experience.
  
  The multiplayer section is what made this game the #1 in the Xbox Live charts. The port over to 
 the PC brings over the sould of the Halo 2 community but it gets lost pretty fast by the lack of 
 people online (since the game IS NOT crossplatform) . Only a handfull of servers with people playing 
 in it (I can count 5 servers any given day) will make the experienced users get bored pretty fast 
 and new gamers frustrated by the lack of a leveled playing field. One very good thing that unfortunately 
 did not make it into the PC version is precisely the ranking system. With that you always got games 
 with a decent match between players. The PC version completely lacks any form of online matchmaking.
 
  
  Another weak point is the extremely short list of available games. You can count on always finding 
 a Slayer type (free-for-all or team-based) with Battle Rifle (BR) but if you want other type of 
 games... good luck trying to find those or even beter convincing the host to switch to a different 
 game type. It's a shame that Microsoft neutered this game for the PC so much. It could have been 
 a killer app for Windows Live but it failed miserably. But the only saving grace is that the essence 
 of Halo 2 is still there, and if you happen to be an XBL suscriber and have not played this game 
 yet give it a try and rack up achievements. If you don't have an XBL account, get the game only 
 if it is dirt cheap at the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, after three years of waiting , This is the new halo (not to mention several last-minute delays) 
 Microsoft has finally managed to deliver up a PC version of Halo 2. Beyond just being a port of 
 a very popular Xbox game, the new PC version of Halo 2 also happens to be one of the launch titles 
 for Microsoft's new Vista platform and its new Games for Windows Live! features. For gamers who 
 missed Halo 2 when it came around on the Xbox, the experience of playing the PC version will be 
 rewarding but more than a little dated. For gamers who already blasted their way through the Master 
 Chief's second adventure, Halo 2 for the PC is a very tough sell. The game really doesn't offer 
 many surprises to those who already played it on the console. There's no new content and very few 
 graphical improvements.
  But the game is very fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Halo 2 was the game that got me trying out the FPS genre. Before that, I wouldn't even dare. But 
 what could I possibly say about Halo 2 three years after its release, though? Wait and see. This 
 PC version has a little bit more up its sleeve than its Xbox predecessor.
  
  You can start playing Halo 2 even before you're done installing the game. This new feature is called 
 Tray and Play , a Windows Vista trait that allows you to play as the game is loading.
  
  The interface will look familiar, something like a more boxy version of the Xbox 360 Dashboard. 
 I was never very good at controlling my character in Halo 2, and FPS on a computer make my clumsiness 
 even more evident. For those already experienced in PC first-person shooters, they will feel right 
 at home. You can only go through the storyline so may times, but the online multiplayer is what 
 keeps the game alive. Not only Halo 2 Vista comes with the original game and all content from the 
 Multiplayer Map Pack, but it also includes two exclusive maps - District and Uplift - and a map 
 editor that lets you create your own and share them with other users.
  
  Windows Live games allow Xbox 360 users who already have a Gold account to sign in with their gamertags 
 and hop online to play some multiplayer matches. There is a TrueSkill Matchmaking system that attempts 
 to match you with players of the same rank or similar, but it doesn't always work well, spreading 
 out people through several servers, sometimes even placing them on their own.
  
  Gold Live members can also create and host their own custom online matches. There is a list of 
 both offline and online achievements that will be added to your gamertag, but sometimes it would 
 take a day for them to appear on the achievements list.
  
  Halo 2 went through a graphical facelift, with higher res textures, sharper graphics and better 
 particle and lighting effects. I didn't find the cut-scenes to look any more spectacular, but all 
 the improvements really show during gameplay.
  
  There are two downfalls that I see for this remake. The first, it's a shame that Halo 2 so too 
 long to come out. II honestly have always been hopeful for an Xbox 360 release that would give 
 us our Halo fix until the third episode came out. The second downfall is that it will only run 
 on Windows Vista and a pretty powerful computer. If you don't have both, no Halo 2 for you, which 
 seems to be a forceful way to get people to upgrade their systems. Even with the required (there's 
 no recommended anymore) 1GB of RAM, the game experiences occasional moments of lower frame rate.
 
  
  However, the Halo franchise is great and the game looks better than before. You also have the advantage 
 of experimenting in new maps, creating your own and getting a few more achievement points. For gamers 
 who enjoy their FPS games on a computer, it's a buy... provided they meet the requirements.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=halo2vista 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guy79
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2 is what it's all cracked up to be. The arbitor missions are a bit long and unsatisfying 
 in my opinion. This game is about chief, not arbitor. The graphics are very good for a 3 year old 
 game. it could have been much better. There also needed to be more resolutions to choose from. 
 The sound is top notch! The battle rifle sounds incredible! All in all, a great port that could 
 have been MUCH better. The vista only option is why I hate it, I am running on XP patch. Dual wielding 
 is a very nice addition that is loved by all who play it. Could have been better, but still a very 
 good game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Yes, I have to admit that Halo 2 is a dated game. It has been two and a half years since the game 
 came out for the Xbox. For those of us that believe that an FPS should be played with a mouse and 
 keyboard, we have waited (maybe not patiently) for the game to finally be released for the PC. 
 Then it was announced that you had to have Windows Vista to play the game. I was planning on buying 
 the operating system anyway, I believe its an excellent platform, and you won't have a choice soon 
 anyway (but that is an argument for another day) . There is also that little issue of the new game 
 price tag on an old game port, I'm sure they new people would buy it anyway. Finally, though, the 
 game was released and we the computer crowd were allowed to play, and with the magic of Vista, 
 to even compete with Xbox users! Unfortunately the first impression of the game is not a good one. 
 Installing the game was not as easy as it should have been. The Games for Windows system of installing 
 while playing was broken and required a complete uninstall and reinstall before the game would 
 work properly. I was never able to get my digital sound to work and had the play the entire game 
 using headphones (or else have the game crash) , which wasn't bad, but wasn't what I would have 
 preferred. Finally I never go Xbox live to work until I had completely finished the game through 
 the first time. For a game that was just a port, and had years to complete, I was fairly disappointed 
 with the overall technical presentation. Obviously the graphics were years out of date, but Bungie 
 did put some effort into updating them for this release of Halo 2 and I was fairly impressed by 
 how good it looked. Once I was into the game I rarely worried about any graphical lacking there 
 might have been. There was some loading lag every once in a while, but the movies played well and 
 the game was pretty much problem free. The game sounded great, with sold voice acting and good 
 production values (even if it was all through headphones) . Everything in the game had a good solid 
 feel to it. I'm still not sure why the digital sound didn't want to work, there was very little 
 support for the game. What makes this game great, of course, is not any of the technical work that 
 went into it, but the Master Chief himself. You don't play this game because it is new and amazing, 
 but because it's Halo 2, and you just have to find out what happens next. In this respect the game 
 did not disappoint, with plenty of twists and turns and even humor to keep the plot moving through 
 the entire game. The game was not especially long, but there is some replay value to it, as well 
 as multiplayer content. The cliffhanger ending only makes me wonder how many years it will be before 
 I get to play Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  There really isn't much to say about this PC port apart from that i myself would recommend that 
 people should buy it for the Xbox if they're gonna buy it at all. The Campaign doesnt change from 
 the Xbox Version and neither does the Mutliplayer, your just playing it on a keyboard and mouse.
 
  
  People said the graphics are better on the Vista version, well really... No. The graphics look 
 better on the Xbox in my opinion because the Vista version makes the graphics look a little duller 
 than usual.
  
  One thing i like about the Vista version is the maps. There's no need for the Halo 2 Map Pack because 
 it gives you them all and more that you can download from websites.
  
  The multiplayer on LAN is great, but playing online can really be annoying now that there are even 
 more hackers and modders. People cant help it but make flying Warthogs and SMGs that shoot rockets. 
 Luckily, Bungies version of Punkbuster should sort some of those guys out.
  
  Halo 2 has and always will be one of the greatest games on the planet, but the Vista version doesnt 
 really make you wanna line up outside a shop to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shot_gun
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Pro: hype and cool factor. new and improved weaponry. complimenting makeovers for star characters. 
 Interesting enough storyline
  
  Con: controls and movement. Menus feel too Xbox'ish. Sorta like they just created a keyboard mapping 
 to an Xbox port and didn't fully tailor it to Vista despite the what 2,3 year lag in release. OMG 
 the cliff hanger ending, less satisfying then Half Life 2.
  
  Contrary to popular feelings, I like the story and the new features like dual wield and better 
 shield capability, even the new and improved weaponry. Interesting enough spin on the storyline 
 by getting to play the Covenant (enemy) character. I also can get into the COMPLETELY revisited 
 and elaborated storyline which Halo (1) just didn't have (though it did keep me intrigued) What 
 gets me is the controls. There are some options just lacking (like setting zoom to something other 
 than your scroll mouse) and the un smooth ness of movement. I can't tweak my mouse just right and 
 the awkward low gravity-higher than you expect JUMP and finally a hesitating crouch do not make 
 for smooth stick-n-move flow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingcommanderIV
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Pros: It's name? Wielding dual sub-machine guns can be cool.
  
  Cons: You're gonna have to chuck your dual sub-machine guns, because the ammo wont last more than 
 5 minutes. The graphics suck, it's buggy, enemies are hard to kill, Live seems taped on at last 
 minute.
  
  I really don't like this game, in fact I hate it. A lot. Sure it has achievements, but I, and I 
 can't believe I'm saying this, don't care. It's not worth forcing my way through this piece of 
 covenant trash. I'll admit that I wasn't a huge fan of the first one. There's something about it, 
 for instance the weapons and enemies. I hate how it takes an entire clip to kill a single covenenant 
 soldier. You basically know you're in for a fight every time the most basic soldier comes around 
 the corner. Not because he's particularly hard, but because you're gonna have to pump a hundred 
 bullets into him before he'll so much as get dizzy.
  
  And it's so much worse in Halo 2. In Halo 1 ammo was some what sparse, and it gave challenges, 
 and even some suspense, wondering how you'll get past the next group of flood with only 3 shot 
 gun blasts left. But this game takes that whole thing, and takes it way to far. Your guns will 
 be good for killing about 3 bad guys, and then don't expect to see any more ammo for them for the 
 next half hour, instead you'll have to trade your guns for the covenant weapons, which are way 
 to underpowered, and also have a limited number of shots.
  
  So there's no point getting used to a gun, because you'll have to swap them out every 5 to 10 minutes.
 
  
  And that's the game. Running around, changing guns, and shooting people who take forever to die. 
 And you do that for 12 hours straight, with some sparse cutscenes in between, telling a story that, 
 by half way through, you really couldn't care for. Or I couldn't, in any case.
  
  And the multiplayer is in shambles. Every game I found online had some sort of stupid gimmick, 
 like snipers only, or rockets only, or no vehicles, and absolutely no one is playing the original 
 multiplayer experiance. Well for those who didn't have a chance to enjoy Halo 2's multiplayer action, 
 these special games will be absolutely no fun to you, and that's that. This is a case where it 
 seems like the fan community has actually damaged a games mutiplayer action, perhaps irrevocably.
 
  
  Oh, and if you are most looking forward to the new integration with the Xbox Live service, you're 
 in for a buggy mess. It's obvious that, unlike the Xbox, where the service is in place, and the 
 games are merely played from it, with Halo 2 for PC, the service is tac'ed onto the game, in such 
 a way that they might as well have just had a seperate program that kept track or your achievments 
 and friends. In fact, I do say that would have been better. If Microsoft wants this Live integration 
 to work, they need a standalone Live program that acts as the Live interface, and interacts with 
 games, rather than in them.
  
  In summation, this game sucks. Thank You.
  
  (P. S. The music is pretty good on the title screen... there something positive, enjoy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  When Halo 2 was annouced for the PC, I was so happy... until I read that it was coming only to Vista. 
 Well, with the XP patch already online, I finally got to play one of the best Xbox games to date. 
 Halo 2 picks up right after Halo without missing a beat, with the Covenant bent on activating the 
 Halos and wiping Humanity. All the old favorites return, Master Chief, Cortana, and all the weapons 
 of the first Halo, plus some new ones. The first new feature is the duel wielding system and you'll 
 learn to pick up on it fast, cause its damn fun when you're using 2 plasma rifles. Graphics are, 
 as they say, look like they're from 2.5 years ago, but the sound is still top notch. The music 
 is excellent and when Master Cheif speaks, you get pumped for battle. The Arbiter also provides 
 a welcome change of pace, but his levels are somewhat boring, yet tension-filled because thats 
 where you'll encounter the Flood most of the time. This is game is more about the Covenant then 
 Master Chief but that's okay. I have not tested the LIVE service since I'm running it on XP but 
 I hope that is fixed soon. Some gripes are the high system requirements, bare video options and 
 still no reason as to why it was only Vista exclusive anyway. Overall, if you've never played the 
 Xbox version, the PC version should bring you up to speed but I don't see this game racking up 
 alot of sales, since its 2.5 years old already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Well to start off Microsoft Vista really stink there I said it I got it off my chest.
  
  Single Player: Rocks for Great Graphics, Sound and a Whole Lotta fun.
  
  Multiplayer: Microsoft 
 what were you thinking!!!
  
  Its terrible online and what ever happend to the cross platforming? I've never played a Xbox-360 
 user yet and I've got Gold!
  
  Graphics: Very Very Good but Not all its hyped up to be.
  Sound: The best Sound I've ever heard in a game.
  Multiplayer: not good yet very very annoying 
 and glitchy.
  Microphone: The Microphone Talking is terrible for every body I believe its windows vista causing 
 it but the Microphone's are almost un useable.
  Controls: Very Easy just like every other FPS.
  
  I would Not reccomend buying this game yet 
 Unless you want a Good Single Player game Hopefully in the future Microsoft fixes the Multiplayer 
 part of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trongod05
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  It was easy to see from the beginning of this game that the graphics were terrible. I know I have 
 seen better graphics in games that are nearly ten years old. What's really disturbing is the fact 
 that the console gamers made such a big deal about the game when it came out in 2004. This is definitely 
 not a game of the year title in my opinion. Half Life 2 which came out in the same year is light 
 years ahead of anything in this game and Half Life 2's graphics continue to impress. Halo 2 has 
 a compelling story line but it's just not enough to keep it afloat in the PC gaming world. Lets 
 hope Halo 3, if it ever comes to the PC, will have a completely new graphics engine that will make 
 it's way past the year 2000 and at least match that of last-gen gaming because I definitely don't 
 miss the graphics from the DirectX 7 era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Everything i could have hoped for. I`ve been waiting this game for about three years to pc and now 
 its true! Halo 2 for the pc is a good game if you have the pc and the right gear for it. Now every 
 one likes multiplayer, well is Halo 2 you have 2 new maps that never seen on the halo 2 for the 
 xbox. Really nice game and multiplayer is great!. Graphics gould be just litle better
  , but its nice. I dont have no tilt at all in this game. That suxs that its only windows vista 
 but no matter to me: D But halo 2 is better than halo 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mes4ever00
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Well Halo 2 is a cult classic. Its one of the best if not thy best FPS for console. But when stacked 
 up to todays computer FPS FEAR HL2 BF2 and any other up coming game it looks realy out dated which 
 is ok. Cuz you play a game for game play. Halo 2 keep to the console game play for the most part.
 
  Halo 2 is a lil slower pased then alot of FPS that arn't tatical based.
  But it still extreme fun.
  
  So if you love halo 2 and you're not sick of it. And want to trade 
 in a control for keyboard and mouse. Halo 2 for Vista is good choice for you . If not,
  There are alot better looking games. on the PC. They won't have the same Multi play Halo 2 has. 
 But that not a bad thing. There are just more epic FPS out there. So don't think you have to get 
 it just cuz its halo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorofin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Everything i could have hoped for. I`ve been waiting this game for about three years to pc and now 
 its true! Halo 2 for the pc is a good game if you have the pc and the right gear for it. Now every 
 one likes multiplayer, well is Halo 2 you have 2 new maps that never seen on the halo 2 for the 
 xbox. Really nice game and multiplayer is great!. Graphics gould be just litle better
  , but its nice. I dont have no tilt at all in this game. That suxs that its only windows vista 
 but no matter to me: D But halo 2 is better than halo 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Sad to see that so many people reviewed this game so disparagingly. I would have hoped that, considering 
 by the sounds of it that most of the low score reviews are by people who don't even like the series 
 in the first place, people could have been a bit more mature about this.
  
  However, on with the review. Well, for gameplay it's everything i set my PC Gaming expectations 
 to. It's got some solid level design, some fantastic artistic sci-fi world design and the weaponry 
 feels solid and it's fun to use them. The story ain't half bad either, it's along the lines i'd 
 expect from a middle episode of a trilogy. No major beginning or teeth smashing ending, but some 
 pretty interesting plot twists and expansions along the way. Perhaps one or two puzzles to make 
 use of the Havok physics engine it employs wouldn't have gone amiss, but that's not truely Halo 
 style. I think the characters have really come a long way, somehow they seem more.... alive, more 
 animated than before in Halo 1. Something definitely seems more real to them. I love Cortana's 
 new hair cut... hehe. (yes that is completely random) There is some really clever and witty dialogue 
 between the characters, something that does help lighten things up a bit in the face of impending 
 possible doom. New weaponry set certainly keeps things fresh and dual weilding is extremely fun 
 and useful at times. There are only a few quirks i have for this category, so i give it a very 
 happy score of 9.
  
  The visuals are perhaps beginning to show their age, but only just. In the shadow of looming games 
 such as UT3 and Crysis, Halo 2 can't hope to compete. However, i personally i never expected it 
 to compete and graphics aren't everything. Hired Gun certainly put some effort in to smarten the 
 textures, effects, models and in-game HUD. There could be a few more graphical tweaking settings, 
 but that's not really very important. Having the game in Shader Model 2.0 by default REALLY does 
 make a massive difference to how good it looks. The overall effect is as such: Low settings give 
 you roughly Xbox looking visuals. Textures are set right down, lighting is downgraded, models less 
 detailed and there are less decals and details to the environments. It only uses the basic feature-set 
 of Shader Model 2.0. Medium settings give you slightly above Xbox looking visuals, with higher 
 quality Shading and textures, with some extra effects available. High settings turns on Full Quality 
 Bloom, full decals, full special effects and highest quality textures and it all looks significantly 
 improved over the Xbox version of the game. There is some absolutely stunning use of cinematic 
 depth of field in the cutscenes, something i haven't seen used properly very often before. While 
 i'm impressed with the visuals, they do still not look as good as a 2007 bred game. So depite me 
 always insisting that graphics aren't everything, i have to by default give this category a score 
 of 7. However, that score suggests how i feel, they're still good.
  
  The sound is simply fantastic, Hired Gun really did well on this front. Although not using EAX, 
 as this is no longer an available technology in Vista, the game uses the Miles sound subsystem. 
 This sound platform is tried, tested and very well optimised on your PC. The result is crisp, clear, 
 concice, unfaltering and atmospheric bassy sound. The lack of EAX support is MORE than made up 
 for using features of the Miles sound system which simulate atmospheric sound refraction, echo 
 and natural quality. There is nothing to fault on this category, so a score of 10 here.
  
  For &pound;30, it wasn't exactly cheap, but i'm sure after a few months the price of that will 
 come down. You get a free month's Xbox Live Gold account subscription card, which would otherwise 
 cost you about &pound;4, so that's not a bad deal. You're getting a game which i personally believe 
 was worth the wait by a longshot and as long as you meet the requirements on the back of the box, 
 i can ASSURE you you will get it working no problems. My PC i'm running it on has: Pentium 4 2.8Ghz 
 CPU, 1GB DDR400 RAM and a Geforce 6200 graphics card. So, in all honesty, not an altogether spectacular 
 PC. However, even at Medium settings, Halo 2 runs acceptably, though on High it becomes unplayable 
 but fair enough. For this category i give it a 9, i don't see a problem with &pound;30 for a PC 
 game when most other PC games come out around that and console games are up to &pound;50...
  
  Halo games are one of my favourite series of games, of all time. Hence i give my tilt as a 
 10. There is nothing like running into a room filled with grunts, firing a rocket and hearing their 
 terrified squeals. There's nothing like that first moment where you walk into the Control Room 
 on first Halo. There's nothing like stepping up the the cliff edge on Delta Halo and seeing for 
 miles across the lake, with it's structures and gondolas. In my mindset, i don't think there ever 
 will again.
  
  So go out there, get Halo 2 for PC, and enjoy! For gods sake upgrading to Vista isn't THAT much 
 of a big deal, i did it without blinking an eye despite Halo 2 and i certainly haven't had ANY 
 problems with the OS, nor does anyone i personally know. I know 7 people personally who are running 
 Vista like me, seriously not ONE of them has had any troubles at all. It's safe, secure and packed 
 with functionality well above what XP had to offer. After almost 6 years, it's really time to move 
 on for PC Gamers anyway, Vista is showing some good signs with Live and DX10 gaming of progressing 
 our somewhat, shall we say, flagging platform.
  
  I definitely recommend this game to anyone who enjoys Halo games, is a map editor at heart, likes 
 a good Shooter, loves cinematic Sci-Fi games or simply wants to get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niccoolnic
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Even though the halo series is one of the best, its amazing to know that all the content we loved 
 on the xbox version is now less than today's standards. Even though the classic feel of halo like 
 the sound and music is still here, the overall feeling of playing the best shooter around is lost. 
 Now that does not mean that the fans of the series won't love it. All of the original content from 
 the xbox version is here, including new maps and a world editor. If your like me and have played 
 the xbox version, you might not need to try this version, if you are new, then give it a try. Also, 
 the fact you have to have vista is a major hassle for those who can't afford/use it. And if you 
 do have vista, this another game that is compatible with the 360 controller. For people who played 
 the xbox version, this might be great, but for regular players with keyboards, the have a significant 
 disadvantage; the players with controllers automatically target the head when close. For people 
 that are either new or just are cheep, this may be exciting, but for a hard core gamer, this is 
 a waste of time. In conclusion, the xbox version brought something revolutionary in first-person 
 shooters, but the pc version has taken the fun of playing the best shooter around. It still might 
 be a favorite with halo fans, but for a regular gamer who has played the most recent shooters, 
 this may seem a little disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neilwars
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  u u ju uj huu uh uu u u o p y y o u i y i hy i h h i i y y u i j j j j j j j j i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i ii i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i ii i i i i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mes323
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  OK, its been 3 years since this game has come out on the original Xbox. Until gears of war came 
 out it was the single most popular Xbox Live Game.
  
  Now its making its debut on Windows Vista *yawn* and? am I supposed to be excited about a game 
 I played 3 years ago? gameplay, PC shooter fans have seen it all before. its still fun, just nothing 
 new.
  
  the graphics, well, they look better than the xbox version. that being said it really doesn't compare 
 with the most modern PC FPS graphics. games like FEAR and the soon to be released CRYSIS make this 
 game look more dated than it is. that being said they really aren't bad just dated 6/10
  
  moving on, sound is an area of the game they really cant improve upon. Halo 2 already had pretty 
 good sounding weapons and what not. 8/10 for not messing with it.
  
  At the very least Micro$oft decided not to charge PC users for multi-player which they had enjoyed 
 for free for so many years on so many other shooters. they also had the sense to join their new 
 games for windows live with xbox live so if you're a gold member on Xbox Live you're also a gold 
 member on Games For Windows LIve at no extra charge. The one thing I would have liked to see though 
 is cross-platform support to which there is none. I have to say that would have made this game 
 so much more than what it is. If Microsoft can release a patch that allows that sometime before 
 halo 3 comes out I'll be a happy man! until then, its 50 bucks for a game I played 3 years ago... 
 no thanks.
  
  Halo 2 will always be an Xbox classic and will remain one of the best Xbox games of all time and 
 its no doubt a great game I just wished they could have given it a windows port that would have 
 done it justice.
  
  If you're a rabid halo fan who doesn't own an Xbox or an Xbox360 (and there's probably only 5 of 
 you) buy it, play it, love it. If you're everyone else save your money for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fishworm
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  PROS: This is the first game which will allow you to play on Windows LIVE.
  
  PROS: Includes multiplayer editor.
  
  PROS: Uses Direct X 10.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  CONS: Too short Single player campaign.
  
  CONS: Only Vista users can play it (Sorry no candy for XP users) .
  
  CONS: Graphics looks out 
 of dated. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Well as for the graphics the game is not for serious FPS game players. As compared for the last 
 good FPS games released as for the S. T. A. L. K. E. R. the graphics seems to be a little out of dated. 
 The game doesn't feel like to be taking advantage of Direct X 10. The FSAA is just upto 4x samples.
 
  
  Audio, ok the audio side has been always good (the theme music awesome) . The audio effects are 
 good. Now the Voice overs had worked well but sometime it feels dull. The single player mission 
 is small and repetitive. It will be over in not more than 10 hours.
  
  NOW the big part the multiplayer (ya man!) . The multiplayer component is the best in the all of 
 the games. Windows LIVE component helps it out stand aside. 24 multiplayer packs and map editor 
 helps to create more maps and gives more possibilities for multiplayer arena.
  
  At last it can be said the game is over hyped and could have been more better if were worked upon 
 graphics. The game doesn't has any replay ability. Really if you have XBOX version I will suggest 
 its the best of HALO 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Up2U
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  Originally this game was pretty good, it continued the first Halo story adding some new twists 
 to the multiplayer and overall user experience.
  After long waiting period it finally came to PC users, but Microsoft had to ruin it all with its 
 monopoly approach, due to the lack of public interest in Vista, as people refer it Windows ME2 
 (Windows ME was total failure) .
  The most expensive, hardware demanding and useless operating system ever created.
  
  Originally 
 Halo 2 was a DirectX9 game, which means that this Vista Only label is nothing more than just a 
 cheap advertising trick from MS.
  I hope they get a grip on themselves and release a patch allowing WinXP users to play it too, this 
 could help them save their reputation, and increase their sales.
  
  Pros:
  Good storyline
  Pretty good multiplayer
  
  Cons:
  Vista only game = poor performance, lack 
 of public interest
  Outdated graphics
  Discrimination regarding multiplayer players (Gold user &gt; Silver user) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2, was one of the most anticipated game or sequel to the
  successful X-box classic HALO: Combat evolved. Not only was Halo the biggest, most sucessful game 
 on the x-box console, but also has proven worthy to be considered the trademark of X-Box in some 
 sense. Much like Sonic the Hedgehog for SEGA, or Mario for Nintendo, surprisingly Master Chief 
 is the mascot for X-Box in my opinion. Originally meant for PC games, Microsoft took a chance, 
 and released this sci-fi FPS on the X-box, eventually they brought it on Pc a few years later. 
 When word came out about Halo 2, the world was overjoyed and excited. Many wonder, whats gonna 
 be new?, will there be new characters?, what gonna happen to Master -chief?, who will he be fighting 
 this time? We all wondered and waited, and when it finally came out.... too our surprise... It.. was 
 disappointing? Why? Well, there are several reasons why Halo 2 was somewhat of a disappoitment 
 for many. Although it was an entertaining experience in Gaming wise, the plot and answers we seek, 
 dont necessary create a huge impact. But Halo 2 on Pc is even more disappointing conpared to the 
 x-box, why is that? Well first off, ill talk shortly about the plot, cause ofcourse in many great 
 games, there is a plot. ***WARNING THERE MIGHT BE SOME SPOILERS IN THIS SECTION*** After Master- 
 chief and Cortana disabled HALO, the chief is given a medal of honor for his bravery of etc. Suddenly 
 theyre attacked by once the Covenant, who manage to break through earth defences. Apparently theres 
 another HALO found, codenamed Delta Halo, and once again the baddies want to activate it for good. 
 So its up to Master-Chief and Cortana
  to battle all of these goonies while discovering deeper truths about Halo and about the enemies 
 plans. Halo 2 on the Pc, plays much like as if youre playing the X-box version, only your using 
 your keyboard and mouse. The gameplay is straight forward similiar to the original, but one of 
 the difference is the absent of the Health bar. Players must rely on keeping their Shield bar as 
 full as possible. Many consider this easier, rather than searching like mad for health pack. Its 
 the same as CALL OF DUTY 2, but honestly, not having the Health doesnt really appeal to me. In 
 fact trying to find health around the game, actually gives the game more edge, but also gives somewhat 
 of a realism. The fact that you gotta wait for your Shield Bar to recharge, while your in battle 
 is a tad frustrating. Of course Halo 2, introduces weapons the player may have been familiar with, 
 such as the Shotgun, the Sniper Rifle, the Needler, the plasma rifle and another cool new weapons. 
 Another neat feature in Halo 2, is giving the Chief the chance to wield 2 weapons at the same time, 
 only down fall is the inability to perform a melee attack on your opponent.
  
  The graphics on the Pc verson, isnt as close, or should i say, not much an improvement compared 
 to the X-box. You would figure that a sequel should have better graphics, Halo 2 graphic are acceptable 
 but not much of a spectacular impact, and there are some issues as well.
  
  The game is defiently fun dont get me wrong. Its a great FPS shooter and its action packed, however 
 the campaign or the game itself seem a little too short compared to the 1st Halo. But, still it 
 a good 10 to 12 hour of fun, depending how much you play. The multiplayer is fun aswell, with the 
 new vehicles, weapons, and maps, it something you can do after you finish with the single player 
 mode. The sound in Halo 2 is one of it highlights, fantastic sound if i must say. Impressive Voice 
 acting, great musical score, cool sound effects.. pretty good!
  
  But the ultimate question many people wonder, is it worth you time and money? Well, that actually 
 a hard question to answer really. One of my biggest problem of Halo 2 , and many may agree with 
 this. WINDOW VISTA. That right the only way you can play Halo 2 is if you have Windows Vista. Many 
 people havent had the chance to actually use the Vista, due to the fact of either spending, or 
 probably by the fact most of us are used to using the good old Windows Xp. It s big let down for 
 those who've got a super computer, or those Alien ware like computers, and the only thing keeping 
 them away for playing a simple Halo 2, is this Windows Vista. In my opinion, putting Halo 2 exclusively 
 for the Windows Vista wasnt a wise choice. Maybe it was for marketing purposes in introducing New 
 games for the Vista, but considering there are many gamers still deciding on this questionable 
 Vista, it would have been better to make halo 2, at least Windows Vista and Xp compatible. So... is 
 Halo 2 worth it? Well ill put it in a few situations to make a choice.
  
  If you already got the Vista, or your pc is Duo Xp and Vista, Yes you should buy this game. Though 
 it maybe a disappointing storyline, or the fact there few minor problems, it should stop you from 
 playing this
  
  However if you only have the Xp and are planing to buy the Vista, just so you can play Halo 2, 
 save your cash, pal. It isnt worth buying the Vista just to play Halo 2. Let alone is Halo 2 worth 
 going through the trouble It hard to believe that a sequel to one of coolest and hottest game in 
 our generation, can be a disappointing. But it still Halo, you cant hate the game or the Master-chief, 
 just because of a bad storyline or a few glitches of problems in this sequel. It similiar to Indiana 
 Jone 2: Temple of Doom, many were disappointed, but did they hate good ol Indy, no cause it was 
 still Indiana Jones! So, it Halo 2 was entertaining and it was a good experience, it gave us all 
 a cliff hanger ending. So what will HALO 3 give us. Will it answer all our questions, or is it 
 gonna disappoint us? Master Chief, mind telling me what you're doing on that ship? The Master Chief: 
 Sir. Finishing this fight!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  The instant Halo 2 hit the XBox, my very first statement was: when'll it hit the PC? A couple years 
 later, here it is, Halo 2 for the PC. Very worth it if you don't have an XBox, and it loses none 
 of the original XBox version's awesomeness.
  
  The graphics are pretty cool, with some nice effects and detail everywhere you look. Watching a 
 Plasma Grenade explode on a Brute's head in 1680 x 1050 resolution with high graphics settings 
 is damn satisfying, as is some rapid-fire bursts from your dual Plasma Rifles. Nothing really to 
 complain about here.
  
  Halo 2 also sounds pretty awesome, sporting some nice music by Breaking Benjamin, Incubus, and 
 of course, the original music of Halo 2. Sound effects are all pretty nice to listen to as well. 
 Explosions, weapons fire, screaming Grunts, you name it. It all sounds great, as it should. Grab 
 yourself a subwoofer and this game becomes even more audibly pleasing, with some nice bass behind 
 your explosions and such.
  
  Controls are pretty simple, and you can use either a gamepad or the keyboard. Personally, I think 
 every FPS is much better with a keyboard and mouse, so I use them. Neither control-type, however, 
 allows for much customization, with just a few select presets to choose from. I found myself cursing 
 everytime I pressed tab to change weapons (thanks, Halo 1) and watching a grenade land beneath 
 me and blow me up. It takes some getting used to, but once you've got it, the controls work well.
 
  
  The game plays great, looks great, and sounds great. Multiplayer is fun, definitely, although I 
 find myself annoyed with Microsoft's Live service, which just makes things a bit too complicated 
 and confusing. It took me a while to set up a Live account, which I'll only ever use for Halo 2 
 (and 3, if it hits PC) , get signed in, and get playing. Once you're playing, however, it's fun.
 
  
  The only real problem with multiplayer is that there just don't seem to be many servers to choose 
 from. This may well be because not many people have the game yet, but it doesn't usually take long 
 for a multiplayer community to get going. I only find about 1 or 2 servers at any given time of 
 the day with more than 10 people playing in them, and this dissapoints me a bit.
  
  All that said, however, there's no reason not to pick up Halo 2 for the PC (unless you have an 
 XBox, mind you) . It's a solid shooter with an awesome storyline, great graphics, nice sound, and 
 good gameplay. I need a weapon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattisgod01
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Like Most People i was looking forward to this game, especially after just upgrading to vista and 
 reading all the good things the game will have (the graphics where suppose to be pretty good) . 
 when i started the game up i set the graphics to max and started a new game... as one does, but 
 as soon as i got in game the graphics looked old and overrated. i was a huge fan of Halo 2 on X 
 box and i wanted to see the difference in graphics myself (because maybe after playing Gears Of 
 War and Rainbow Six Vegas my expectations where set at unrealistic levels (i make a habit of doing 
 that) ) so i go to set up my X Box but then i remember that i had sold my Halo 2 and my X Box on 
 Ebay . So without a Halo 2 Or and X Box i was forced to improvise... and after half an hour of improvising 
 the best i could come up with was putting Halo 2 For Vista into My X Box 360... no surprises there. 
 After spending a few hours playing single player and realizing that i had done it ALL already on 
 my X Box i decided to give Multi player a go, at least that was still good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  1st off i must say i was kinda disappointed that bungie scrapped the dx10 version of the game, 
 but even that did not take away from the game any. I nevered played halo or halo 2 on xbox so this 
 is new to me and i must say it is awesome. Also i would like to go to say the vista is the best 
 gaming os i have ever used of corse unlike some noob gamers i spent the time and money to build 
 a vista gaming machine ie. the 8800gtx. After using the custom setting of this card i can run games 
 at 24x aa which makes even old dated graphics look new and state of the art. I found one player 
 review of this game laughable he whined about have to update drivers to play a pc game well duh 
 you have always had to do this since windows 3.1. Welcome to PC gaming, but if maintaining a gaming 
 pc is to much for some of you would be pc gamers to handle i hear tha HEllo kitty island adventure 
 jsut came out on mac you all should check it out it my be more your speed :P, but for you hard 
 core pc gamers our day is coming dx10 games are right around the corner and the ps3, wii, and even 
 xbox will be left in the dust come august of this year. Good Game microsoft keep up the good work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IiIdimsum7
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 31, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Campaign mode is the worst possible thing you can do to spend time. Do not even attempt this mode!!! 
 It really sucks so much. So the only option left is to play multiplayer. I don't really mind the 
 Vista upgrade. I have a Mac, so my Vista is in a separate partition and I downloaded Ultimate for 
 free. I tried multiplayer and it was pretty disappointing. First of all, you need headphones and 
 a friend with you. If you play alone in your room without microphone like I first did, you will 
 feel lonely and ultimately bored. I would rather play Halo 2 on the console against friends. Keyboard 
 and mouse does not feel right for me either. It works just fine, but I seriously think that keyboard 
 and mouse users cannot compete against gamepads because of auto-aim. If you are using a gamepad, 
 the game will be more fun... just try gamepad some time. Overall, multiplayer gets boring if you 
 can't matchmake (you need Gold Account for this) . I thought I was a noob, but there obviously were 
 people worse than me, so you won't get owned to badly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  With the 360 people will be finishing the last chapter of the 3 part game and with the pc going 
 into its 2nd chapter we will have to wait longer than 2007 to finish the fight. Halo 2 for the 
 pc is a good game if you have the pc and the right gear for it. With most pc game you think you 
 would have the better chance of winning with the key borad and mouse but with game its different. 
 Most people that are winning have a gamepad. I know when I 1st started I getting mad that every 
 one is killing me but than I found out about how good the gamepad is to the keyborad. Halo 2 has 
 the same story line from the one for the xbox. So cliff hanger at the end. The graphics are nice, 
 I really like them on this game, they are the best part of this game. The sound is ok, not the 
 best but it will work. Now every one likes multiplayer, well is Halo 2 you have maps never on the 
 halo 2 for the xbox. You also get to make your own map set ups with the new map editor. So thats 
 all good. Well at the end of it all I would say you should just get the halo 2 for the xbox you 
 will have a better time playing. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregrout
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 31, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping for a sequel that played nice and smoothly on the PC. The original Halo achieved this, 
 it played nicely with the keyboard and mouse. To my dismay, Halo 2 doesn't live up to this. While 
 the graphics are neither horrible or stellar and the sound is about average for the genre, there 
 are issues with the gameplay. I think the Gamespot review touched on this a bit with the auto-aim 
 feature, that benefitts joystick users and hampers people that like to use a keyboard/mouse. Some 
 people have suggested that the game plays significantly better with a joystick, I would tend to 
 believe them. I think the real issue that the Gamespot review downplayed is the amount of effort 
 required with the mouse to get the target lined up. It's downright depressing playing around with 
 different hardware and game settings to get the game close to acceptable. I've been focusing on 
 using two of my gaming mice (Logitech G5 &amp; Microsoft's (Razer technology) Habu gaming mouse) 
 at different (mouse) resolutions and screen resolutions with mild success. Hopefully I'll find 
 the sweet spot where the pixel resolution, mouse resolution and sensitivity all line up smoothly. 
 It would have been nice if this was done by the developers before the game was released. Instead 
 it looks like they kept the X-Box controller as their game controller foundation and attempted 
 to add mouse &amp; keyboard support on top of it. So don't expect smooth HL2 type control using 
 the keyboard/mouse out of the box. I'm sure this will be addressed in later patches. I suspect, 
 that they will need to enable a similar auto-aim functionality into the keyboard/mouse configuration 
 so that the crosshairs will at least be in the general area of the target, thus reducing the time 
 it takes to line up the shots. As you can imagine, the smaller the target (e. g further away) , the 
 smaller the pixel footprint is that you have to line up, the worse it gets, add a resolution of 
 1920 x 1200 to the mix for those of us with highend video cards and it gets worse. You can expect 
 to do a lot of tweaking with the settings to get it to a tolerable level of playability if you're 
 used to using a keyboard/mouse configuration. I'd recommend you hold off, until we know how Microsoft/Bungie 
 plans to address this issue.... and believe me, it is an issue that's creeping into review after 
 review across the gaming industry, not just on Gamespot. For that reason, I'd give them a hit on 
 the gameplay scale. I think they'll address this soon enough, it's just very unfortunate that the 
 game was shipped before this was addressed. That said, I wouldn't give up on this title, Bungie 
 and Microsoft have stood very strongly behind the Halo brand and have done a lot of keep the orginal 
 going strong for quite a some time (don't forget the free Custom Edition released for the original) . 
 Based on this history, I've given them an inflated Value rating. The history of support for the 
 brand, coupled with the included map editor leaves me to believe that this title will get better 
 with age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneHusky
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2, expected by many to be a very good shooter certainly failed noticeably by the many blunders 
 from both Microsoft and Bungie together, both companies expected to bring customers rather than 
 avid players aching to enjoy a game with great story behind, amazing effects and a plot that would 
 make having sequels worth it. Instead they brought a title that had a great success in console 
 and pc alike, and attempted to use that to make people buy a new operative system in order to play, 
 promising visual improvements, capabilities and to be a title that would debut when windows vista 
 arrived.
  
  Almost 6 months after vista was released and no signs of halo 2 anywhere... great way to keep your 
 promises bungie.
  
  Don't take me wrong, I am biased against vista right now, changing OS in order to play a game that 
 could have been played with the existing tested OS with the same or greater quality just to promote 
 new, untested, and potentially glitched software... no thanks. Add insult to the injury by allowing 
 gamepad users have an advantage over mouse users, (go aimbots go!) in multiplayer games and the 
 biggest blunder of halo which is repeated... AGAIN! no co-op campaign mode, not even using direct 
 IP connection.
  
  Then Microsoft made the biggest mistake here by trying to force the OS down our throats.
  Bungie 
 made the same mistake by following the money-hound.
  
  Halo has a great story, more deep if you read the existing novels, hard to imagine spectacular 
 scenes and an unimaginable alien fleet attempting to destroy humanity, and at the same time begining 
 to battle its own people in a escalating civil war. and mankind stuck in the middle trying to survive 
 the hail with its small forces and rapidly draining resources.
  
  Had Halo 2 been made available for XP it certainly would have raised the favor of the gaming community 
 that enjoys FPS's but since that' not the case, more compatible games are chosen (BF2142, Sup Com, 
 Half Life)
  
  Halo was a great success in Xbox since it brought upa new innovative gameplay, and gotlimitedby 
 thelack of multiplayer via internet, when Halo PC debutted bungie gave players several bonuses, 
 improved gameplay by network and internet, extra weapons and the capacity to create maps and play 
 them using HaloCE, but Halo2 for PC does not include anything new, its exactly the same game as 
 Xbox, even though graphics improved in size and quality the content is the same without any extras 
 and now, to play online you have to pay?
  
  So if you are a devoted halo fan and want to spend $50.00+$250.00+$??.00 in this game, consider 
 that your hardware might need upgrading to accomodate windows vista and then pray to whichever 
 deity you like and hope vista's bugs don't prevent you from playing your hard earned game, but 
 if you are like me who wants companies to appreciate the consumer more rather than leech them off, 
 just play something else.
  
  You'll have more fun.
  LH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2 has finally came out for the PC. You will need Windows Vista to play this game. The system 
 requirements are not that high this is reasonable because this game ran on the original Xbox. So 
 most modern PC's will run Halo 2. The graphics are a little better but not like a modern first 
 person shooter has. It still has the polishing graphics like the xbox had. The single player in 
 Halo 2 is same as on a Xbox. The covenant comes to earth to set hell on the humans. Then the covenant 
 retreats to another Halo and the Covenant and the humans are fighting to control of this ring world. 
 The ending in halo 2 will hit you in your soal. Its a cliff hanger ending that might hit you like 
 a frae truck and leave you hanging. The multiplayer in a halo 2 is probley why halo 2 is so sucessful. 
 Its a 16 player battle with gametypes or you can make your own. The bad thing about the online 
 you will need to subscibe to xbox live. This time around there is Xbox Live achievement points 
 you can get. They are not really hard to get. There are single player achievements like beat each 
 levels and difficulty. There is alot a multiplayer achievements that are the easy to get. they 
 are like hijack a warthog get double kills and so on. This is also a map editor that comes with 
 the package. You not need to wait for more maps. There are also 23 maps that come with the game. 
 It just great to create them .Was halo 2 worth is of course it is if you never played the game. 
 It is also if you love the halo games. There are some problems like the Xbox 360 Controller and 
 the gamepad gets auto aim. Then the mouse and keyboard players dont. They had to support the Xbox 
 360 controller because they certified there game for Windows. Halo 2 is now out you can pick it 
 up now. Its great fun and easy to play. I hope to see more players on halo 2 so the developers 
 make a huge sucess again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecbsx38
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  1st off i must say i was kinda disappointed that bungie scrapped the dx10 version of the game, 
 but even that did not take away from the game any. I nevered played halo or halo 2 on xbox so this 
 is new to me and i must say it is awesome. Also i would like to go to say the vista is the best 
 gaming os i have ever used of corse unlike some noob gamers i spent the time and money to build 
 a vista gaming machine ie. the 8800gtx. After using the custom setting of this card i can run games 
 at 24x aa which makes even old dated graphics look new and state of the art. I found one player 
 review of this game laughable he whined about have to update drivers to play a pc game well duh 
 you have always had to do this since windows 3.1. Welcome to PC gaming, but if maintaining a gaming 
 pc is to much for some of you would be pc gamers to handle i hear tha HEllo kitty island adventure 
 jsut came out on mac you all should check it out it my be more your speed :P, but for you hard 
 core pc gamers our day is coming dx10 games are right around the corner and the ps3, wii, and even 
 xbox will be left in the dust come august of this year. Good Game microsoft keep up the good work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomamathe4th
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  ok yes i know halo is like the best game ever on xbox but that is not the story on the pc o no 
 unlike the halo combat evolved for pc this is worse than the original which was awsome. Now im 
 not a sony fanboy or a nintendo fanboy but this game just sucks on pc. I expected so many more 
 improvements for online play due to the fact that online play is the best thing in halo 2. The 
 graphics are far from improved you think with the new all mighty vista finally out the graphics 
 would stand out to be awsome but you would be wrong these graphics barely improve from the halo 
 2 graphics which by todays standards are very dated. I was also hopping for mabye 1 new weapon 
 well its not here which by the way sucks. The map editor is very nice but not nice enough to save 
 this game. Considering how much windows vista costs not to mention upgrading your pc in ram and 
 everything you are better off buying this game for xbox and xbox live heck you might as well buy 
 a 360 while you are at it. Oh and did i mention the controles oh ya to tell you the truth i would 
 rather have unfair controls than cheap auto aim thats why i stopped playing halo 2 in the first 
 place it got to easy and it was not fair. Some of the glitches are fixed up but there are still 
 alot more left and if you thought modders where bad on the xbox wait until modders move to the 
 pc it is so much easier to hack a pc game than an xbox game trust me on that. overall id say pass 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogswarts
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 31, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  I was wanting for this game to come out on Vista, but now I wish I hadn't because the only upgrade 
 I could see was just some upgraded graphics wich help a little bit. There aren't really any technical 
 issues (well at least what I've saw there aren't) . The game sounds pretty good, you can here all 
 the gun shots and everything. The story is the same so that wont help it at all. But what your 
 probably wondering about is the multiplayer and for the most part it's the same as the xbox, except 
 for the fact that if you are using a controller you have auto aim. Windows Live looks really nice, 
 even though it's just Xbox Live on the PC with a new name. I don't think you can invite people 
 on Xbox Live to join your game, because I tried that with my friend and we couldn't. I haven't 
 played around with the map editor yet, but I bet that is pretty straight forwards. Anyway if you 
 haven't played Halo 2 on the xbox I'd really try to look into this game, other wise you will jut 
 be wasting your time unless you want to make some maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 29, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Halo 2 has finally come out on pc and I was very much exited to get started. We already know that 
 Halo 2 is an awesome game so theyre isnt much to say about this. The graphics and sound are the 
 same as the Xbox so they're isnt real improvement in that which I find extremely disappointing. 
 And the main reason for that is because of Vista, everyone knows that Vista has multiple bugs and 
 problems and the fact that Microsoft only released Halo 2 for Vista frustrates me, I have Vista 
 Ultimate and yet I had to go through far too much to get Halo 2 working properly. One of the main 
 problems is with the graphics, Vista could not recognize my graphics card to be high enough and 
 i know for a fact that my graphics card is well over the requirements for most new games. I and 
 to download an update for the graphics card and an update for other things as well, this was ridiculous 
 and just stupid considering that the graphics had not changed at all. Halo 2 is always fun to play 
 but the fact its on Vista is appalling and I dont see why they couldnt release it on XP besides 
 the fact that they Microsoft would make more money this way. If you want to go through the trouble 
 of Vista then you should buy this game otherwise it not worth it and I would wait until they bring 
 it out on XP or until Vista is reliable enough. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
