-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Halo: Combat Evolved
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 29, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.6, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 13,917 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 30, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've been holding out for the PC version of the game all these years, then don't deny yourself 
 this experience any longer, and see what you've been missing. 

  When Microsoft released its Xbox game console in late 2001, easily the best launch title for the 
 system was Halo. Originally announced way back in 1999 and slated for release on the PC and Macintosh, 
 this first-person shooter became an Xbox exclusive after Microsoft bought the developer, Bungie. 
 Halo for the Xbox has gone on to sell more than 3 million copies worldwide -- which isn't proof of 
 the game's superior quality, but certainly is evidence of it. Yet, the game was never officially 
 canceled for its originally intended platforms, and at long last, it's available for the PC. For 
 the most part, this new version of Halo is a straight port of the 2-year-old Xbox game. You'd think 
 a high-end PC could handle such a game easily, but this port, which was done by Gearbox Software, 
 is surprisingly taxing even on very fast PCs with tons of RAM and the latest video cards. Halo 
 for the PC also loses the original version's much-vaunted cooperative play mode. But in spite of 
 all that, and in spite of the very high standards for first-person shooters on the PC, Halo is 
 still an incredible action game. It's a true classic -- a game that hasn't lost any of its impact 
 and intensity over time.  

          The PC version of Halo is mostly identical to the original Xbox version, but it's still 
 a truly impressive game.     

  Halo consists of an intense, story-driven single-player campaign and a multiplayer mode. The campaign 
 is a good 12 hours long at the normal difficulty setting, and the dynamic nature of the battles, 
 along with the multiple, well-balanced difficulty settings, gives it good replay value. The multiplayer 
 component only supports up to 16 players and includes a bare-bones integrated server finder. The 
 game tends to play smoothly online if you can find a server with a low enough ping, and it features 
 an assortment of different modes, which are variations on the standard modes of play found in your 
 typical multiplayer shooter: They include slayer (meaning, deathmatch) , team slayer, capture the 
 flag, king of the hill, and some others, though slayer and CTF are by far the most popular choices 
 judging from the servers that are up and running.  

  Halo is famous for integrating powerful, fun-to-drive vehicles with the on-foot action, and this 
 is what distinguishes its multiplayer component from that of other shooters, though some other 
 PC shooters have also integrated vehicles more or less successfully since the original release 
 of Halo. The PC version exclusively features a couple of multiplayer-only weapons not found in 
 the Xbox version -- the flamethrower and the fuel rod gun, sort of a plasma grenade launcher -- though 
 they're not as interesting as the game's core weapons. There are also six new multiplayer maps 
 that were made for the PC version of the game. All in all, Halo's multiplayer component can make 
 for some good, chaotic fun and seems to have a lot of potential for when the fan community gets 
 hold of the editing tools that Gearbox has promised.  

  For the time being, it's Halo's single-player component that's the main attraction. If you've played 
 it on the Xbox, then you already know why -- and you may still wish to pick up the PC version of 
 the game just to go through this outstanding campaign with higher-resolution graphics, virtually 
 non-existent loading times, and more-responsive controls than what can be found on the Xbox. The 
 standard first-person shooter controls work flawlessly with this game, so you'll be able to pick 
 it up and start playing in no time if you've played any other shooter lately.  

          The Master Chief is very strong and can effectively take on groups of enemies alone, but 
 he can't afford to be reckless.     

  Longtime fans of Bungie's games know that one of the company's greatest talents is to tell a great 
 story in its games. Halo is no exception, and it easily features one of the best stories to date 
 in a first-person shooter, though that's not necessarily saying much. In any case, this is some 
 great science fiction. The game picks up as the Pillar of Autumn, a human warship, is under heavy 
 attack by the alien race called the Covenant. As a last resort, the ship's captain issues the order 
 to awaken an experimental soldier from his cryogenic sleep. Referred to only by rank, the Master 
 Chief is a skilled solider equipped with a very durable environment suit. He's tasked with protecting 
 the ship's AI, Cortana, and escapes with some human marines toward a mysterious ring-shaped planetoid 
 called Halo. Halo has its own atmosphere and ecosystem, but clearly it's no natural construction. 
 There, the Master Chief (along with the surviving human marines) will continue the brutal fight 
 against the Covenant and, with Cortana's help, will uncover the secrets of Halo and hopefully find 
 a means to escape.  

  As the Master Chief, you're highly skilled with all types of ranged weapons, which you can even 
 use as deadly bludgeons when up close and personal with the enemy. You're also able to commandeer 
 human and alien vehicles and hurl grenades accurately at a great distance. You have a motion tracker 
 that detects any enemies in the vicinity, as well as recharging energy shields that allow you to 
 survive against direct impact from energy or ballistic weapons. And your armor prevents you from 
 being killed outright by such attacks should your shields be depleted.     

  The Master Chief is powerful, but he's far from invulnerable. He can only carry two weapons at 
 once (plus a stash of human frag grenades and alien plasma grenades) , and he's vulnerable to concentrated 
 fire or heavy weapons. The way the Chief's energy shields work is one of the game's innovations. 
 The shields will recharge in a few seconds when the Chief isn't taking any fire, a life-saving 
 feature that forces you into strategic retreats and to fight from behind cover whenever possible 
 during the course of Halo. Having those shields not only makes for some tense firefights, but also 
 means you won't find yourself in situations where your health is too low for you to possibly survive 
 the next fight. It's little wonder that other shooters have started copying this play mechanic, 
 since it works very well.  

          You'll sometimes find yourself in the thick of pitched battles between the Covenant, friendly 
 marines, and others, and these make for some incredible action sequences.     

  The most impressive aspects of Halo are its friendly and enemy artificial intelligence, its physics 
 for vehicles and explosions, and its weapon design. These elements are what contribute to the outstanding 
 quality of the action, and though they are technically the elements of a 2-year-old game, they 
 remain unsurpassed by just about any other shooter. Halo isn't a squad-based shooter, but in those 
 instances when you're fighting alongside fellow marines, these troopers will naturally look to 
 you for guidance and provide you with covering fire.  

  Your enemies, meanwhile, offer a significant challenge. The Covenant's elites are imposing-looking, 
 arrogant alien soldiers who have recharging energy shields of their own. They'll attempt to dodge 
 your fire, use cover, and flush you out with explosives or flanking maneuvers if you try to stay 
 hidden for too long. They're supported by grunts, which are weak little creatures that serve as 
 Halo's comic relief. These cowardly foes will scatter, flailing their arms in terror, if an elite 
 is killed in their vicinity. Yet grunts are not to be underestimated, for they can carry heavy 
 weapons and grenades. They can also use stationary gun emplacements and will draw your fire away 
 from their more-dangerous comrades. There are other Covenant foes, such as the jackals, which are 
 skinny little creatures who defend themselves with energy shields, and the hunters, which are enormous 
 and fearsome shock troopers. The Covenant aren't the only enemies you'll face in Halo, but they 
 are the most prevalent and the most interesting to fight against. There aren't many varieties, 
 but since they're armed with different types of weapons and are capable of effectively fighting 
 both in close quarters and from long range, there's a great deal of variety to the types of battles 
 in the game.  

  That's thanks in no small part to the vehicles. The best parts of Halo take place in sprawling, 
 wide-open areas in which you're free to fight on foot or in any of the game's four drivable vehicles 
 that you can find. The human's warthog is a sturdy 4x4 all-terrain vehicle -- you can't shoot while 
 driving it, but a marine can use the high-powered chaingun mounted on the back, and another can 
 ride shotgun, providing support fire with his weapon. The warthog, like all of Halo's vehicles, 
 automatically moves in the direction in which you're looking, and this works very well to allow 
 you to pull off some great stunts. The humans also have the rhino, their main battle tank, which 
 can lay waste to small armies of Covenant single-handedly.  

          Halo's vehicles are fun and easy to drive, and they're great in multiplayer.     

  
 The Covenant's vehicles aren't as durable but are still very useful. The Ghost is a hoverbike armed 
 with twin plasma guns, and the Banshee is an assault aircraft that can devastate ground forces. 
 Each of these handles uniquely from all the others, looks great, and has its own unique advantages. 
 They're put to use in memorable moments in Halo's campaign, and are a lot of fun in multiplayer, 
 but what makes them particularly impressive is how seamlessly they're integrated with the action. 
 Your perspective smoothly transitions to a third-person view when you get into the driver's seat 
 of one of these.  

  The arsenal of weapons available in Halo is also terrific. Rather than include a progressively 
 more powerful lineup of guns as in most shooters, Halo's weapons are all well balanced and uniquely 
 suitable to certain situations. Plus, the human and Covenant weapons are very distinct, thematically -- the 
 humans' ballistic weapons are well matched against the Covenant's plasma and energy-based firearms. 
 You'll probably gravitate to a few types of weapons in particular. The standard marine assault 
 rifle practically steals the show, as it offers a high rate of fire, looks and sounds great, and 
 has a built-in compass and ammo readout. Better yet, it's perfectly suited for smashing an ugly 
 Covenant's face in at close range. Indeed, the Master Chief has a unique way of using all of the 
 game's different weapons as a bludgeon, and these powerful attacks are incredibly satisfying to 
 use as finishing moves, especially in a tight spot when your ammo clip is running low and you need 
 to finish the job, fast.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (679 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  Halo.... the mention of this game put people into a rage... halo the mention of this game brings 
 joy to peoples eyes as they remember playing it back in the day. If goldeneye and perfect dark 
 got me into console FPS games then halo was the game that relight that fire and got me playing 
 console FPS games all over again.
  
  I do not even know where to start..... The flood levels may have been somewhat of a pain and the 
 SP was not the best in the world (still alot of fun mind) .
  
  What realy got me going was the split screen MP. Man the great battles that me and my mates waged 
 on each other..... Running other other people when they where not looking has never been so much 
 fun...
  
  Yes the second one may not have been as good and there are as many haters as there are fans/fanboys. 
 To me that just means the game did its job. It got people talking it made people sit up and say 
 my lord what is this.
  
  Halo people hate/love/do not even know what its like because they have not played it. To that third 
 group.. If you have a 360 or a PC why not go and check it out.... Weather you hate it or love it 
 at the end of the day you will never forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega189
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Instead of being content with just rating games, I have taken it upon myself to review every game 
 that I own that I want to. Halo: Combat Evolved truthfully got me into playing games that were 
 not real time strategies on the PC, at which I was horrible. Halo is just one of those games that 
 just plays well, looks good, and is actually the best game in the whole FPS series (I haven't played 
 Halo Wars) . Throughout the first half of Halo, you, John (I read the books) , Master Chief Petty 
 Officer Spartan 117, are fighting against the Covenant, an alliance of aliens intent on slaughtering 
 every human in the universe (Why? Read the books) . I found that I enjoyed using the human weapons 
 more than the Covenant's. The MA5B Assault Rifle is particularly effective, third only to the M6D 
 Pistol and the Rocket Launcher. Until about halfway through, you are accompanied by Marines (referred 
 to as "Helljumpers" in Halo: The Flood", a novel) in all of the missions. They're somewhat smart, 
 though most of the major thinking and shooting is up to you, as they can hardly take on two Grunts 
 (The game's weakest enemy) without a few dying. Vehicles, introduced in the second mission, control 
 well. The game is pretty straight forward (kill all Covenant) until the level "343 Guilty Spark", 
 where things delve into Sci-Fi cliche, though not diminishing the fun (after you complete the level 
 after, that is) . I do think that Halo outclasses both Halo 2 and 3 in gameplay, but some people 
 may disagree. If you haven't played it, though, you're A) not "Mature" B) A Microsoft Hater C) 
 An FPS Hater D) don't own a PC or XBox (though if you don't have a PC, how could you read this?) . 
 But, in total, and sorry to end with a bad conclusion, Halo: Combat Evolved should not be missed 
 by anyone... Even Microsoft Haters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecoldfighter
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  At first I didn't like SF Shooters with aliens, spaceships and so on. Not at all. My cousin proposed 
 me to play Halo and Halo 2 ("I can guarantee you that you will have a great experience. Just try 
 it!") . And yes, I've tried it. I've got a 1680x1050 22" Wide Monitor and the max resolution for 
 Halo was: surprise! 1440x900. I said in my mind: "Another crappy game with a crappy graphics. My 
 cousin just wants to annoy me!" And so I passed the first level. After that I just couldnt stop! 
 He was right, the game was fantastic! With great gameplay, great story and great multiplayer Halo: 
 Combat Evolved offerd me a great gaming experience. The dialog is intelligent, can't say that about 
 the AI because the NPCs made the game so easy. It would have been even easier if they weren't so 
 many! But inspite of these little bad things Halo: Combat Evolved remains one of the best SF Shooters 
 and you definetly shouldn't miss it! 
  
  The Good: good gameplay, good multiplayer, great story and it has a special ingredient (I can't 
 tell it, can just feel it)
  The Bad: kinda poor graphics and stupid computer (at least it created no difficulty to me) 
  
 
  
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10 (just try it with a controller)
  Storyline: 9/10
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  -----------------------------------------------------------
 
  My rating: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figsnake12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 1:02 am PT
Review:  This is a good game and very fun to play. Personally, I like the health regeneration and even if 
 you find it to easy, just stick up the difficulty setting. This game is not even close to as good 
 as the xbox owners will tell you, but it hardly deserves half the criticism thrown at it either. 
 I do find all this rubbish about how the game "revolutionised FPS gaming" quite humorous, what 
 over-exited ten year old came up with that? Half Life got there three years earlier. 
  
  Halo is a innovative FPS with some good ideas, it features a strong story, well designed waepons, 
 good vehicle sections and decent, if somewhat simple AI. While I can happily play a few hours on 
 it it is not so good that I am left drooling over gameplay videos or rushing anyone who criticises 
 it in a forum. 
  
  In short, it is fun and I will happily pay anything up to a tenner (ten UK pounds) for it, but 
 it never "revolutionised" anything (exept mamey the publics ability to overrate games) . It remaines 
 a good, cheap bit of fun, a bit stupidly macho at times and often very linear, but nothing you 
 cannot live with. 
  
  It will also work on more or less any system from this millenium which does not show in the graphics. 
 The xbox release has been given 9.7 by players. How? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  this is just plain pitiful, i mean what kind of crap game is this.... the singleplayer is 100% 
 straightforward, and you have no freedom to explore or do things the way you want, and there isnt 
 much variety to weapons, and vehicles. but mostly it lacks in physics, story, and gameplay, 
  
  a hardcore PC gamer like myself would find it near impossible to enjoy halo or any form of 
 it, as there is nothing to really see, or do except do what your screen tells you, and shoot people. 
 those are the minimums for a below average FPS and it doesnt go too far beyond that.
  
  but seriously, ANYBODY can be good at halo, the weapons are fitted to kill people without the need 
 of a good aim and coordination, and that is what matters in the element of skill.
  
  
  i cant see how a below average game like this could be rated so high when the game is so average, 
 little to no core configuration, somewhat buggy controls, and interface.
  
  the weapons are just rediculously designed for people who want to make themselves look good at 
 shooters, and the weapons themselves make no sense, i mean really, the weapons sound like POPCORN! 
 this is a shooter, so make them sound like something deadly instead of something you play with 
 in a pool.
  
  this is the most overhyped game- no, series to ever hit a game box, now i would suggest going to 
 another well designed game that goes over PC gamer standards.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  Halo has been described as the greatest first person shooter game since half-life with which i 
 definately agree on becasue this is such a great game it leaves you wanting more and also has you 
 enthralled from the first time you walk out of that cryo tube to the epic conclusion.
  
  Gameplay: Halo seems to be an average shooter from the looks but that is not true, it does everthing 
 right, unlike other shooters where they just put in shooting dumb squadmates and pointless objectives 
 Halo puts you with a great set of weapons intelligent allies and enemies aswell as interesting 
 and important missions. The backbone of any shooter is the shooting itself and halo excels here 
 with awesome weapons and sounds and a great selection of them too which all have a unique feel 
 to them from the standard assault rifle to the alien needler. The story in halo starts out with 
 humanity fighting a losing war with a coalition of aliens called the covenant, a religious group 
 too and your ship makes a blind jump into hyperspace to lead thwm away from earth and it is sucessful 
 but you stumble upon a giant ring called halo, but as the covenant attack you are awoken from your 
 cryogenic chamber, you are the master cheif the last of the spartan II's and you are about to begin 
 the fight which will be one of the most epic stories ever told in a videogame.
  Halo only does so well because it has so much to offer for example a wide array of vehicles are 
 at your disposal like jeeps and tanks but they are so good because they way they are driven, instead 
 of the normal controls you move forward and use the reticule to steer as you drive towards the 
 reticule.
  The covenant are no pushover either with some small soldiers to collosal hunters, each enemy has 
 a personality and reacts differently to the situation and has a great set of weapons. Later in 
 the story you learn more im not going to tell you but i highly reccomend you to play.
  
  Graphics: At the time halo was released the graphics were supurb and are still great today, there 
 are no real graphical flaws but the marines all look the same except for key characters of course 
 and some of them look quite ugly too but it depends of what settings you are playing them on but 
 are still good. Explosions look great and the weapons look great and feel as they should the vehicles 
 all look as you would imagine them to aswell.
  
  Sound: Halo does great here too with all the guns sounding incredible and voice acting some of 
 the best i have heard in recent years making you totally immersed in the situation and leaves you 
 wanting more.
  
  Multiplayer: the multiplayer is quite standard but is insanely fun and is far superior to that 
 on the xbox with 16 player online and the standard game modes but all with vehicles and all weapons 
 and a few exclusive to multiplayer like the fuel rod gun and the flamethrower.
  
  Conclusion: Whether you like FPS games or not you should play halo simply becasue it is an incredible 
 game, whether to begin the halo saga or simply to enjoy it either way you should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: William6058
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  All these years, I've thought Halo was just an overrated game, so I didn't pay much attention to 
 it. But I thought I'd give it a try since my friends are playing, so I bought one and... OMG.
 
  
  As I went into the campaign, the storyline is shocking and could pull your mind deeply into the 
 game within literally minutes. You can't even afford to keep your eye out of the screen because 
 it is so fun.
  
  The muliplayer is just about the same story as campaign. It is entertaining and on the low lagging 
 side of multiplayers. (unless u join a high ping) 
  
  But, sometimes the pings can change rapidly , like from 68 to 734, and that's where the bad (but 
 not really gameplay-effecting if you know what you're doing) parts come in. Too little security 
 and unpredictable actions in multiplayer are two. But the one I hate the most is the vehicles physics 
 engine. When a warthog just bumps 1 mph into a hunter, the hunter's going to heaven. Looks like 
 Bungie didn't add in the speed and crash comparison, let us say. I heard that it was fixed in Halo 
 2, but I don't have an Xbox nor a Windows Vista (I hope XP will come out at least in time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:55 am PT
Review:  Halo CE has everything that a PC shooter game should have. After Max Payne this game was the one 
 that revolutionized the FPS gaming industry and took it by storm. Lets deal with the various aspects 
 one by one.
  
  1. Graphics - Halo CE used one of the most advanced game engines of 2003. Now in spite of the fact 
 that the game engine in itself has become outdated, the game has not. The graphics provided for 
 Halo proved to be a massive success then and is still proving to be one now.
  
  2. Music - Ask anyone who has played Halo CE and they will swear by the theme music. A music of 
 that actually beats all other games. Even the Max Payne theme song falls drastically flat in front 
 of this game. The entire ambiance of the game is only half of what it is had it not been because 
 of the music.
  
  3. Story - Halo's story line is linear and absolutely simple. However that doesn't stop it from 
 becoming one of the best story lines of the era. Competing with the story lines of Blizzard Games 
 and Max Payne, it should be said that it stands with them in the limelight of brilliant stories.
 
  
  The story starts off with a prologue not in the game. Earth's peace keeping force of the universe 
 - UNSC (United Nations Space Command) had created a project SPARTAN-II (after the failure of SPARTAN-I 
 project) by which they were creating supersoldiers. This project used several candidates being 
 trained from a very young age and having titanium infused into their bones making it virtually 
 unbreakable (The candidates were kidnapped and replaced by imperfect clones who soon died of "natural 
 causes") . Due to these severe traumatic experiments only 33 of the original 75 candidates survived 
 and went on to become one of the elite fighting forces of the UNSC maintaining peace and stability 
 throughout the galaxy. The SPARTANs were however still covert until an alien coalition known as 
 the Covenant attacked the 'Harvest' colony. They declared that the destruction of humanity was 
 the will of the gods. To raise the morale of the people the SPARTAN project was revealed by the 
 UNSC. The SPARTANs however had been used previously on other peace keeping missions and most of 
 them were either "missing-in-action" or "wounded-in-action" (the government version of Killed-in-action) . 
 These SPARTANs were sent to far reaches of space to destroy the covenant using a secret base known 
 as "Reach". Most of the SPARTANs died on their missions with only a few surviving. One of them 
 was John-117 or "Master-Chief". However the Covenant had come to know of Reach and had attacked 
 them on their base. Master-Chief was injured in action and was taken aboard an escape ship named 
 as "The Pillar of Autumn" being captained by Captain Keyes. The game starts from here and I would 
 like you all to play the game to know the rest of the story.
  
  4. Gameplay - Halo is a milestone in gameplay. Nothing seems to be awkward in Halo. You can not 
 carry more than 2 guns at the same time unlike other games where you can carry enough guns to start 
 World War 3. In Halo, there is no honor in using Human guns only. At times it is wiser to use Covenant 
 guns when there is a shortage of ammo. It is the first game to incorporate such ease in interior 
 and exterior gameplay. Unlike Max Payne, Halo has a non-linear gameplay. That means that in Max 
 Payne you may find doors that lead to the goal much easily but they seem always to be invariably 
 locked. In Halo if there is a door it can be opened. There may be fire to deter you or obstacles 
 to block your way, but there is no part of the game where you will not be allowed to explore. Even 
 on the sea, you may ride your jeep as far into the sea as it may go without sinking. These various 
 aspects make Halo's gameplay the best in any FPS of late
  
  5. Physics - If you understand Ragdoll Physics and Animation techniques, then this is for you. 
 Halo was the first game to use Inverse Kinematics instead of Verlet Integration procedures for 
 dead body physics.
  
  The final verdict is that if you haven't played Halo you should probably do so for you are missing 
 out a really cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the first FPS which I have completed so I hope I will review this game correctly.
  It starts off in a mothership, called the Pillar of Autumn. It has been heard that an alien race 
 called The Covenant will soon attack them. Thus, captain Keyes decides that it's time to call upon 
 Master Chief, the last of a race of super-soldiers created to protect mankind. As you have guessed, you 
 are the Master Chief himself. During the attack which you can't prevent, the captain get's captured 
 and you are commanded to save yourself and get to any nearest planet via a drop ship. On the planet, your 
 mission is to recover any and all survivors who have landed on the same planet. Once rescued, you'll 
 have to board Truth and Reconciliation, the Covenant mother-ship to find Keyes. As you rescue him, he 
 says he heard the Covenant planing an attack on the control room of the Ring world (the one on which 
 you landed) . They have discovered that the Ring world itself is a weapon. So now your objective becomes 
 to get a blueprint of the control room's architecture and prevent the Covenant from getting to 
 it. This is the biggest mission in the game, and also the hardest. As you recover the control room, Cortana-your 
 computerised assistant reveals that the Covenant have discovered something terrible in the Ring 
 world, something dangerous. Something called the Flood. From now on, you'll be betrayed by a hovering 
 ball-shaped machine who earlier promised you it'll help destroying the Flood.
  You finally discover that the only way to destroy the Flood is to destroy the Ring world itself. So 
 you go through a lot of trouble to activate the fusion generators of the now-crashed Pillar of 
 Autumn, and trigger the destruction of the world. In the end, you escape with an inch of your life, board 
 a drop ship and leave the Pillar of Autumn to self-destruct and shatter the Ring world in the process.
 
  In the game, the graphics look top-notch with a brilliantly designed sound system. The only draw-back 
 is you don't have possession of a lot of weapons, though you can drive a lot of vehicles. You'll 
 enjoy the game, and find yourself asking for more even after the end of the game.9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Halo combat evolved is a great PC and xbox game. The story is that you are John-117 aka masterchief, 
 spartan super soldier. The story unfolds nicely and keeps you entertained. If you did not consider 
 goldeneye 2 be the shooter that started the series halo 1 did. It has rebounding health bar and 
 the best melee attack ever but into a FPS. Shooting aliens is so much fun, there are different 
 types of aliens 2 shoot, and different guns 2 use. The graphics are kinda blocky and don't look 
 that good, but the music and sound effects are great! Sometimes the frame-rate lags really bad 
 2 wear the sound even lags. 11 levels sounds like a short game but the levels go on at least an 
 hour or longer. Re-playing this game is so much fun and there are some levels that are so much 
 fun to play again. Controls can be used with the mouse and keyboard or a game-pad or xbox controller, 
 and all 3 work nicely. The multiplayer is amazing there are so many players and servers on so dont 
 worry about little amount of people online. Each map and mode is different and some players can 
 really test your skills for the ultimate battle. If love FPS's Halo will be your favorite shooter, 
 but it has some problems.
  
  Story: 9.5
  Gameplay: 9.6
  Graphics: 7.7
  Controls: 9.2
  Re-play Value: 10
  Overall: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaa0c85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Not since half life 1 which was released in 1998, there has been a better fps out there in the 
 gamig world. Halo redefines this genre with its explosive gameplay and multiplayer action. It just 
 took too long for it to arive on the pc.
  
  Masterchief will go down as the greatest action hero in video gaming history. 
  
  With high 
 pace action from the start of the game you will battle through alien like creatures and later on, 
 zombies, which will test your shooting accuracy. Using your own weapons is not enough, you have 
 to use there guns as well. Battle through many stages in the game set in different atmospheres, 
 snow, alien ships and many more. ride vehicles such as the on road warthog and the flying ghost 
 ship.
  
  The sound effects and the background music add more of a dramatic effect to the game. Multiplayer 
 which is the most addictive part of the game. You can spend hours and possibly days battling people 
 across the world.
  
  
  
  If you havent played this game shame on you, go and get this game and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timblake9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played the halo series on xbox, you will know how good they are. Everything about 
 it rocks, the gameplay, the graphics, the vehicles, the enemies, and especially the story. All 
 this is made so much better by playing it on PC
  
  The reason i gave the pc version a score of 10 and the xbox version a score of 9.5 is simple, the 
 online play on the PC. The original xbox version was great, but had some levels that just seemed 
 too repetitive, such as the library level. It seemed to drag on too long, and as a result meant 
 the game wasnt gonna get a score of 10. Put that aside though, the PC version is the same as the 
 xbox, but because the controls are now more suited for fps (in my opinion, mouse and keyboard over 
 controller any day, especially for those headshots!) , and an online play that anyone can use if 
 they have internet, and which doesnt cost, means Halo is the best fps for the PC ever
  
  btw did i mention the story behind it all rules... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allaroundfan_-1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Halo (Xbox/PC) review 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  [IMG] 
 
  
  [/media] [/media] [/IMG]
  
  Halo: Combat Evolved
  
  
  Release Date: November 15, 2001 (Xbox in North America) / September 30, 2003 (PC in North America)
 
  
  
  Developer: Bungie Studios (Xbox) / Gearbox Studios (PC)
  
  
  Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
  
  
  Genre: First-Person Shooter 
  
  
  ESRB Rating: 
 Mature
  Blood and Gore, Violence
  
  
  Intro
  
  Halo: Combat Evolved, a game that has been called the best game on the Xbox by multiple gaming 
 sites and magazines, has been available for about 7 years now. It has also been available for the 
 PC for about 6 years now. This edition has also recieved rave reviews. The game effectively combines 
 narrative and frenetic combat into a cohesive game, but is it overrated?
  
  [IMG] 
  
  [/IMG]
  You will fight against multiple opponents with various UNSC or various Covenant weaponry.
 
  
  Story
  
  Halo's story begins with an alien invasion of a Naval space ship called the Pillar of Autumn. To 
 counteract the assault, one man and one AI chip have to rise up to the challenge and overcome all 
 odds. The characters have believable human emotions and take actions that will come back to haunt 
 them later, but the story, in my opinion, is a little contrived. The generic superman complex, 
 the overcome all odds theme, and the alien storyline all seem fairly weak looking back. Most of 
 the characters are well portrayed and believable; human emotions are expressed through simple cut 
 scenes and dialog, but rarely will the player see or learn of his feelings. As this super soldier 
 proceeds across "Halo", a mysterious ring the Pillar of Autumn crash landed on, he will discover 
 unknown secrets and have to deal with the consequences. Perhaps I'm a little biased because I read 
 the novelization before playing the game, but I never felt satisfied with the provided story. There's 
 nothing inherently wrong, it just seems like so many other plots before it.
  
  This image has been resized. Click this bar to view the full image. The original image is sized 
 1024x1150 and weights 407KB. 
  
  Vehicles take a large part of the game play in Halo, but a soldier can always take one out with 
 enough skill and a little luck.
  
  Game play
  
  
  
  The game play is what I call standard first-person shooter game. There are two main types of guns: 
 Covenant (alien) and UNSC (human) . Within each section, there are further subgenres with side arms, 
 rifles, anti-vehicle weaponry, etc.. The game tries to vary the objectives throughout its approximately 
 9 hour storyline, but the generic objectives will remain very similar. You have to kill N amount 
 of enemies or create a path to this point by going up to here and activating light bridge number 
 1. To progress through the story, you will have to improvise with the weaponry on hand while listening 
 to your Computer AI, Cortana. Master Chief or John-117 can only carry two main weapons with him 
 without utilizing a glitch of some sort, but he can always carry up to 4 of each kind of grenade 
 (plasma or fragmentary) . Plasma grenades will stick to an enemy if thrown correctly and consequently 
 kill most of the enemy types. Fragmentary grenades will explode and injure or kill opponents depending 
 on the type and the damage they have previously sustained.
  
  The types of enemies (beware, some spoilers will occur) : Grunt ( basic enemy/weak) , Jackal (moderate 
 enemy/ average) , Elite (leader enemy/ strong) , Hunters (rare enemy/ extremely powerful) , Flood 
 infection forms (weak) , Flood carriers (weak, but will explode) , Flood combat forms (varies, but 
 in general strong) .
  
  In addition to ground combat, there are multiple vehicles available to the Chief at various points 
 in his struggle. Each vehicle has its advantages and disadvantages, so they remain somewhat fair 
 to all players and opponents. 
  Master Chief will endure quite a few blasts, but he can survive thanks to a high tech suit called 
 the MJOLNIR armor. This suit will form a refillable shield against all attacks, but John can also 
 heal himself through health packs scattered throughout Halo. 
  The game play won't win any awards from me, but it works and remains fun for the majority of the 
 time spent in game. Besides, explosions are fun no matter how many times you create them. 
  
  
  Audio
  Halo's music is the kind of music everyone should aspire to. The music enhances 
 any emotions you experience during the course of the game. It is energetic, well timed, incredibly 
 immersive with the world, and just plain amazing. The voice acting is admirably done with only 
 a few lines I was chuckling at, but usually they were meant to create a sense of humor. Some incredible 
 production values really show how much effort the sound designers gave. There are no annoying lyrics, 
 just an inspired track list that seems to sound akin to Gregorian Chant. The music maintains the 
 caliber of high quality movies and will intensify enjoyment for most players. 
  
  Controls
  
  The controls for this game utilize the standard first-person shooter controls for 
 both available versions, with camera control/aiming handed to the mouse or right analog stick. 
 
  [IMG] 
  
  [/IMG]
  For the pc controls, go to
  
  http://download. microsoft. com/download/b/1/8/b180af00-6eae-490e-88d6-71ec4f4af01a/HaloPC_Manual_EN. pdf
 
  
  The controls are responsive, tight, and in general placed well. On the Xbox controller, the flashlight 
 and switch grenade buttons are a little annoying to hit, but everything else seems to work fine. 
 
  
  Good Aspects
  The controls, story isn't bad, some amazing user mods/hacks on the PC, multiple profiles running 
 through campaign and multiplayer, multiplayer community still alive, fairly long and interesting 
 campaign, great maps, interesting characters, varied weaponry, chat box on PC, information displays 
 in both campaign and multiplayer are well designed, multiple vehicles, some amount of balance, 
 multiple difficulties that can unlock some small bonuses, multiple multiplayer modes, melee is 
 fun and brutal, editions for both PC and Xbox, free online multiplayer for PC, free PC demo with 
 some multiplayer content, AI is in general intelligent, some hilarious extras, well designed enemies, 
 system link on Xbox for more than 4 player LAN parties, and cooperative play on Xbox.
  
  Problems
  Locations of certain functions don't fit well, lag on PC version, AI can cheat (they 
 can waste ammo forever, but they never seem to run out unless you kill them. Fancy that?) , continuity 
 errors (Sergeant Johnson appears throughout the campaign, but even if you purposely kill him during 
 the campaign or unlock the bonus video on Legendary for the PC  
 , he shows up in Halo 2. Just keep him alive while he is shown to me, it's not that hard) , no cooperative 
 modes on PC other than team death match, ammo can pop up in the most unlikely places, game feels 
 stale now, certain weapons are somewhat overpowered, health packs (Health depletes far too quickly) , 
 no adaptation to multiple Chiefs for coop mode (some change or recognition would be nice) , the 
 energy shield takes a long time to recharge, your military teammates that join the Chief on his 
 journey are moronic to the highest degree, and in my opinion the plot never really lived up to 
 the novelization's version. 
  
  I could go on, but I feel I have written enough.
  
  Summary
  
  Halo is definitely a good game, but it is nowhere near the best Xbox game or shooter 
 game. If you want a solid FPS (first-person shooter) experience, you can definitely do worse than 
 either of Halo's versions. However, the corollary is that you can easily find better games. If 
 you haven't tried Halo, I would recommend a rental for the Xbox and at the very least to try the 
 PC demo if not purchase it for the PC. No one will really care about the Xbox edition, but the 
 PC one is still thriving, at least until Vista becomes the standard operating system and everyone 
 can play Halo 2 five years after it released on the Xbox. 
  
  I'm not going to give game scores anymore simply because the reader and I will never agree completely 
 and our various forms of hierarchal ranking will differ drastically depending on our experiences 
 with the subject.
  
  Thank you for reading! Make sure to check out my user page to find other reviews from me and if 
 you want to, subscribe to me on any of my sites.
  
  Sincerely,
  randomduded12
  __________________
  Feel free to repost on other sites or whatever, even if you just want to 
 point out I committed a solecism on page three line 8, you smarmy grammar Nazi. One condition: 
 maintain my username within this review/article under any and all circumstances. 
  Contact me with a PM for information regarding online gaming with me or other accounts I have.
 
  Don't hate on videogames, they suck more than they should anyway. "I'm a hypocrite"
  -Randomduded12 "LOGIC IS GOD!!!11!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedjos08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Welcome to review number 1 of many reedjos08 reviews, if you havent halo combat evolved before 
 then your not a very good gamer, but i'll let you of this one time. lets get my first review ever 
 started right with the story fo halo
  story:
  Our story begins on a ship called the pillar of autumn, captain Keyes has only just escaped the 
 evil hands of the covenant, but the marines are in for a big shook when the evil grunts, eletes 
 and hunters brake in through the defences and invade. there is only one hope for there survival, 
 they have to awaken the Spartan super soldier, the master chief.
  
  concept:
  After you are trained to look around using the mouse and are given your energy shield and skip 
 the bit when you are given a weapon to fight with it's of to the bridge to meat the brave, cunning 
 and old fart of a captain you are given a pistol with no amo (that helps) and a cyborg super chick 
 (thats cortona to you and me) you have to run the hell out of here, you dont even get time to back 
 your tooth brush. After getting of the ship in a crowded pod. You then crash land and exit stage 
 left and find your not the only one alive and have to save all the humans, and so on and so forth.
 
  what i love about this game is that you never know whats coming next, there are so many plot twists, 
 awesome. so your job is to destroy all the covernent scum and save your self from a secret alien.
 
  
  controls:
  the controls can be what ever you want them to be so there isent much purpose for me to explain, 
 although most people will probably ues the right mouse button to through grenades and the left 
 mouse button to fire your gun.
  
  design:
  for a old fps halo looks quite good for it's age, the maps, the charter and the vehicles all look 
 great.
  
  BAD!:
  the bad whould be the lack of customisation options and how stupid the gunts our, although the 
 midgits our fuuny when you stick plasma grenades on them. the online has one problem, its when 
 people kill you when you come back from being shot, when the wepons are so good you die every four 
 seconds and when people think they are so smart when they jump on your dead body, thats it.
  
  GOOD!:
  the online, the campain, the maps, the wepones, the story line, the tanks, cars and 
 ships and dont forget the melee attack.
  
  conclusion:
  the graphics are good, the online is great and the soundtrack is allso good, thats it i hope i 
 did well. Next time i will be reviewing mario Galaxy for the wii, if you want to see my review 
 list, look at my page, good night and see you next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Just incase you haven't noticed I haven't reviewed a single Xbox game and thats because I never 
 did own a Xbox, I'm not going to lie this is the only Halo game I put effort into beating and actually 
 playing online which was very fun and definitely worth the 20 dollar price tag which is very cheap, 
 you could more then likely fine this about 8 to 10 bucks cheaper now, review time kiddies.
  
  Graphics 10/10: Very great graphics master chief looks awesome environments looks amazing and 
 the covenant look pretty good. also 
  
  Gameplay 10/10: The story is kinda short and easy but the online is where the moneys at very fun 
 and addictve but do get ready to get your arse handed to you a few times. 
  
  Sound 8/10: I do love the whole "Halo music" thing going on quit a bit in this game but unlike 
 most people I'm not like "OMGZ DAS SO AWESUMZ" and the voice acting is good also.
  
  Replay Value 8/10: It is replayable in the story with more difficulty modes to choose from and 
 the online play is very addictive most of the time.
  
  Overall 9/10: The game does have flaws but all the good stuff going on in the game kills the flaws, 
 a definite must own for Xbox or pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: an0fel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  best game of you life.
  If Not played Of Game You Lost A Perfect Game.
  Play & Happy.
  you Go to World & War With Alien For Human.
  It's A Chance For You At World Of game So Buy & 
 Play This Game.
  A Very Big Game. A Very Beauty Game. A Very Specialy Game. A Suprised Game. A Star Game. Guns In 
 your Hands & You Fire. What Firing? It is Bullet? NO. It's Leizering Gun. You Fire & You Fired 
 Go To Your Enemy And Died Them.
  World Of War. You Swim In World. You See Star & You Is RelaX in World.
  Best Of Music In Game.
 
  Geraphics:10 Of 10
  Sounds:10 Of 10
  Music:10 Of 10
  Gameplay:100 Of 10
  Story:10 Of 10
  best Of Game. Not Angry. You Win War That End Of Game So War War War.
  I Compelet 
 This Game At 11. Big Game. At game You see Boss & Fight With Them With Plasma Gerande & Rifle Gun. 
 Com On Play it.
  PERFECT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  When this game first hit the shelves it became a must have game in every xbox/PC owners household. 
 Fortunately for me, I joined in on this epic discovery and have never regretted it. This game sparked 
 my fanatic approach to all branches of FPS gaming. 
  
  Halo: CE, to me was the DOOM for that time period. It's amazing storyline and fantastic game play 
 got me fixed to the controller in an attempt to fight the covenant in a battle to save humanity. 
 Halo: CE for those who haven't played it, is a space FPS mostly set on home planet, Earth. 
  
  The graphics are fairly basic although the simplistic game play setup compensates for this. 
 Halo: CE's weaponry is fairly extensive with weapons ranging from pistol to rocket launcher, FPS 
 fans wont be disappointed. For the best experience, go straight online. With a large selection 
 of game types and variants who would miss out on such an opportunity. It is the online experience 
 that makes halo: CE so different from DOOM but in a better way. 
  
  In a way, halo: CE is a large step up from all other FPS games in its generation, and it will be 
 noted down as a classic among classics, i assure you. So I would not need to tell you to go buy 
 it, you probably have it lying around somewhere. But on the small case that you DON'T have it. 
 GO BUY IT NOW. I assure you, you won't be disappointed. If your an old school gamer looking for 
 some online fun, halo: CE is the game for you.
  
  Summary - 9.5/10
  Online: Excellent
  Campaign: Long and fun
  Storyline: Magnificent and structured
  Multiplayer: Inevitably enjoyable
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeltergon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have an Xbox, but still want to experience Halo for yourself, then deffinantly buy 
 this game. Halo for the PC is the same game as the Xbox version, but with a different controller.
 
  
  
  You get all the basic maps from the original Xbox version, as well as some new maps ramping the 
 map total to 19, so you'll be playing for a while to find all the great sniping posts, or the next 
 great rocket camping spot.
  
  You also get 2 new weapons that you didn't have in the Xbox version, and FlameThrower, and the 
 Fuel rod you see the grunts carrying late in the Campaign mode. These weapons are only avaliable 
 in the Multiplayer setting however, so you'll have to use your basic weapons for campaign.
  
  Speaking of Campaign, with the PC version, you're on your own, you can't team up with a friend 
 this time, which makes the Legendary setting just that much more difficult. Can you handle the 
 preasure of 4 elites, 2 hunters, and 15 grunts.... by yourself? Well find out and try the Campaign 
 out. Just watch out for this invisible Elites carrying those *GAH*.....
  
  you'll find out.
  
  The multiplayer for the PC version is free, you just need a good Internet 
 connection, and your good to go. You simple load up all the servers that are up, and pick from 
 them. You want to pick servers that have the smallest Ping possible, the higher the ping, the more 
 lag you get. Unlike the Xbox version, when versing other players, you need to aim ahead, which 
 is wear Ping comes in, for example, if you have a ping of 1000 (VERY BAD) You have a full second 
 of lag, so the people you see, are actually 1 second behind on your screen, so you need to shoot 
 where they will be in 1 second.
  
  over all it's a fun game and if you have a PC you should deffinantly get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddie92hg
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Halo PC is truly a masterpiece, don't let its release date fool you. This game will get you hooked 
 and bury you in the story of the master chief.
  
  The campaign is undoubtedly the best in the series and has a great storyline to back up the game 
 play. It's a lot more simpler than any of the other titles, but the levels last much longer and 
 have more substance to them.
  Extremely high replay value, only a level or two at most will get "old".
  
  Multi-player will 
 have you sitting in front of your monitor for hours without noticing time has gone by. Always thousands 
 of people to play against in every map available. It also gives you more freedom than its XBOX 
 counter parts. Instead of having to wait for players to join in a random server provided, you can 
 join any of the hundreds already running with players.
  
  Don't hold back, go out and buy this game immediately if you haven't already. Even if you have 
 it on the XBOX, the PC version will make it look useless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewilderedRonin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of a great game and took me by surprise. I had played Halo 2 on a friends' XBox, 
 and I just couldn't get into it. I can play 3rd person shooters easily with a control pad, but 
 FPS just irks me. 
  
  The great thing is that Halo is a wonderful port to the PC. The menus are clear and well tailored 
 to the PC experience. Controls were solid and it ran very smooth.
  
  Halo's gameplay is excellent as well. The character moves somewhat sluggish. Even when you're running 
 you really aren't moving very fast, especially compared to the Quake series. The guns are great 
 and have a magnificent feel to them. The kick they give, the animations, the reload times, it's 
 all done just right. The game is fairly easy with a recharging health bar, but it doesn't mean 
 you can charge right into a heavy battle. If you're experienced with shooters, I'd recommend starting 
 off on Heroic, otherwise Normal mode should be easy enough.
  
  The weak points of the gameplay come out when using the vehicles. You can man the machine guns, 
 which is nice, but you will have to disengage and then run up to the driver's door to get in and 
 drive. It would have been nice if you could have switched positions while mounted inside the vehicles. 
 They also feel slippery. It makes sense that there would be bad traction on the dirt, but your 
 vehicles slips and slides about no matter the surface and sometimes the sliding seems a bit excessive.
 
  
  The sounds are great and all the weapons, even the alien weapons sound like they're packing a punch. 
 The music is appropriate and good enough. There's nothing that really sticks out in my mind, but 
 I never felt like I wanted to turn off the music. That might seem like a put-down, but i assure 
 you it isn't. It's not easy to make music that is pleasing to hear over and over for 20-some hours 
 of gameplay. The death grunts and groans are great for the humans, but the aliens sometimes sound 
 a bit cutesy.
  
  One of the first things you'll notice about Halo is COLORS! The palette in this game is very saturated 
 with bright neon colors. The aliens range from weird, kind-cutesy hermit-crab looking aliens to 
 some of the more badass looking Hunters fully decked in armor. The level designs are well done, 
 but tend to be circular and sometimes highly repetitive. The enemy AI makes good use of their environment 
 and the layouts of cover are well placed.
  
  The storyline of Halo is fairly good, at least good enough to be negaging. It's presented in a 
 fairly linear fashion. Complete mission, watch cutscene, repeat. It's not bad, but it's not as 
 seamless as Unreal was.
  
  If you don't like FPS on consoles and you want to give Halo a try, I highly recommend this game. 
 Halo 2 for the PC, on the other hand, I would avoid unless you just really, really, like the storyline. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polish_Assassin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Do not doubt the power of a guy and his PC especially with his lucky mouse in action on one of 
 the Great games Halo 1. Have fun on both The multiplayer and campaign maps as you expose the covenants 
 plan, find the new species which turns out to be a weapon that can detroy species of all kind, 
 And destroy it all! I have come to reason with the fact that this game has possibly endless glitches 
 in the campaign, some found harder then others.
  At least you can have a blast on more then like 20 maps! Aw god do i love this game and it may 
 sound just a bit "noobish", but you cannot escape the fact that you can completly own the game 
 in the amazing modded maps! You will have endless fun, its not even funny! ( techinacally its quite 
 funny) I mean this game would not be the same without its countless mods. Of course i like playing 
 a lil ol' fashion realistic style to enhance my pure sniping skills. Enough about me you have to 
 focus on buying this game for any PC you have at home. I havn't even realize that i have played 
 over 400 hours of this game! You can also interact with your xfire at the same time ( which is 
 how i know how many hours i've played and trust me i've played about 900 by now!) I do dislike 
 one of the sequel features of halo 3 and the unrealism it has compared to halo 1. I am not critizing 
 to much i just do hope they fix there little mistake of just point and shoot from 5 miles away. 
 Only oter thing i have to say is, PLAY THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blargblarg-1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Out of all the games i've played, Halo: Combat Evolved is by far my favorite one. An amazing and 
 intriguing story line, a really fun gameplay and amazing soundtrack make this a must have! Even 
 though released several years ago, i still play it today and i still have as much fun as when i 
 first played it. The multiplayer option is really fun and so is the campaign. Every level of the 
 campaign let's you have fun. From gloomy surroundings to snowy chasms, you have fun all the way 
 through. And the graphics are actually very nice considering how old this games is. Anytime i have 
 no work to do, i start playing and i get into it so much i don't see the time go by.
  
  The bottom line is, if you haven't got Halo: Combat Evolved, i STRONGLY recommend it even if, like 
 i mentioned earlier on, its a rather old game. Plus, it is very cheap now so you don't need to 
 worry about spending lots of money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoy123abc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game to me is THE BEST in the Halo series because the multiplayer was really fun and the campaign 
 was not only AMAZING but it was also replayable. This game can be laggy at times so dont be surprised. 
 The maps were really simple and most of them were really fun. If you didnt like the maps then you 
 can get the custom edition off of download. com for free and you can look up maps online and play 
 on maps played by other users and even make some yourself. The maps on the original though ACUALLY 
 make me want to play CTF and oddball. I had such a HUGE problem waking up at 5 in the morning and 
 playing the game until 3 AM you need to try this game I have played it since about 2003 and I'm 
 still not tired of it. Of any game I have ever owned I would recomend this one THE MOST and let 
 me tell you I've play a lot of games. You should definitly get this game if you like multiplayer 
 but if you dont you might as well just get it for xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  ____________This review may be saying what everybody already knows, but I just want to reiterate 
 how awesome this game is. First of all nothing beats the original. They pretty much sucked it up 
 in Halo 2 for me. The reason this games is awesome is, first of all, the story. _____One of the 
 greatest stories you can have for a game, it makes you want to fight on until you kill every last 
 one of those convenant and also the flood. The fighting mechanics are just right for this game. 
 Has all the weapons you need and they feel just right for the environment and the era your fighting 
 in. There are numerous enemies from the grunt to brutes that give you a good diversity of monsters 
 to kill. Although the graphics aren't the most detailed, they also aren't too bad and won't get 
 in the way of the really enjoyable game play. Overall this game is one of the best out there and 
 the only way to find out why is to try it out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dude1096
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Good game. I feel sorry for anyone who has not played it because it is fun. good story line. good 
 multiplayer maps. a must have. played it it is good. my favorite level is truth and reconciliation. 
 i have not gotten past it. you should play it and halo 2 and halo 3 not sure about halo wars but 
 play them they are fun. the game has good graphics. enough levels long enough levels big enough 
 maps. if you get it get halo custom edition download at www. halomaps. org no sign up needed for 
 maps or game and no fees. over 100 maps in halo custom edition halo combat evolved has about 15 
 i think. so get it soon its fun. its one of my favorite games. halomaps is a good site its not 
 mine it has no virus. for your information halo custom edition has no story mode. halo custom edition 
 has devmode (have to download at halomaps) fly cam (have to download at halomaps) devmode is a 
 code console it has alot of codes fly cam is like a flying camera you can teleport to the camera 
 with a dev code. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Bob7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass Kick-ass 
 Kick-ass Kick-ass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chessmaster1989
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the only two negatives of this game, because they are few and inconsequential: 
 first, the graphics are not amazing, but they are good enough; second, there is no co-operative 
 play, which was a fun element of the game on the Xbox.
  That said, the benefits of this game far outweigh the minor problems.
  I will begin by talking 
 about the campaign, which has an engaging storyline and, of course, lots of action. The cutscenes 
 are never so long that they get boring, and certainly add to the plot. Although some of the levels 
 can seem rather repetitive (at times, you practically experience deja vu when you move from one 
 room into another room that is nearly exactly like it) . However, there is overall enough diversity 
 to keep one from getting bored. The campaign is long enough to keep you entertained for a decent 
 period of time, and the different difficult levels make the campaign enjoyable to play multiple 
 times.
  Of course, the multiplayer is always fun. For those who like serious fighting, there are servers 
 where advanced players can go to prove their talents. For those who just like messing around, there 
 are numerous servers that give options like snipers only (with no shields) and unlimited rockets.
 
  Halo: Combat Evolved, costing only $9.99, is well worth the investment if you like less-serious 
 first-person shooters. Although it is not as intense as some of the newer games, it's a great one 
 for those who want a slightly more entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1390562
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  it starts off as y am a playing this to kill all who stand out in front, it is fast paced but also 
 tread lightly for a beginner at fps this is a must grab. no learnig curve just in and out For an 
 x-box game extremely pleasing pc this game is great will be a legend for generations to come the 
 storyline is self explainitory but also hard to figure in points but will always leave u wanting 
 more and more
  
  it starts off as y am a playing this to kill all who stand out in front, it is fast paced but also 
 tread lightly for a beginner at fps this is a must grab. no learnig curve just in and out For an 
 x-box game extremely pleasing pc this game is great will be a legend for generations to come the 
 storyline is self explainitory but also hard to figure in points but will always leave u wanting 
 more and more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticR83r
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty awesome all its cracked up to be but the game is a lilttle to short and they 
 r a few conrtol problems with the wort hog But over all ur playing as a captian that was i unno 
 frozen who has now come to help kill the covenent i say its pretty awesome you kill aliens who 
 r trying to use this wepon and a place as a wepon not the place so they can take over the worlds 
 basicly i dont usally like war games but this is defently acceptible its a very kool game with 
 lots of awesome big wepons a exellent story line and characters are incredible when the xbox wuz 
 inb its time the graphics would of been amazing they r still goood now even with the xbox 360 ps3 
 and psp. if there was a graphic novel halo or even a novel it would be great because of the exellent 
 story line in the game even a cartoon for halo would be great halo is awesome even for 10 year 
 olds to 50 year olds and even lower 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Halo means a lot to many people. I know that every Xbox owner has played at least one game in the 
 series. I always thought that this game was so popular because the Xbox fanboys always made it look 
 good, and that it was that one true great game that the Xbox had.
  I was wrong, I got a couple of days ago a copies of Halo: Combat Evolved and Halo 2. They were a bargain 
 and I thought that after so many years in which I was always wondering what do people see in this 
 game, it was time for me to try it.
  The installation was short. So I thought it won't be good as the game is pretty small by today's 
 standards and that maybe I won't like the game because it's 7 years old and also that probably 
 I didn't play it in time.
  Anyway, I started the game and there I was, for the first time in my life, playing a Halo game. As 
 most people know, you play as Master Chef and are basically a super soldier who needs to kill some 
 alliens. I won't really get into the whole story, cause it isn't that good and also because most 
 of you already know what happens.
  It was a big impact when the game started and I saw 7 year old graphics. I changed the resolution 
 to 1280x768 and the game looked a little better. At the beginning of the game you only get a pistol, which 
 is pretty standard for FPS's and I went off. I played for a couple of hours without even noticing, and 
 that for me is very rare.
  Eventhough the graphics are old, they seem to do the job of "not disturbing the eye with square 
 pixels". The game has some visual problems, the frame-rate drops very often when there's a lot going 
 on, like when there are many enemies nearby or explosions happen. This can become a little annoying, and 
 they won't go away even on a high-end PC.
  The sound in this game is splendid. From the sounds of the guns and explosions, to the sounds of 
 the enemies who laugh like some kind of crazy Chucky, and all the way to the soundtrack which is 
 staggering, it suits the atmosphere so well that you sometimes really feel alone facing dozens of 
 alliens.
  The game-play is also perfect. It will take only a couple of minutes to get used to the controls, and 
 after a while they'll just feel right. This game makes many games look bad in terms of sound and 
 game-play. The story isn't that great but it makes you want to know what happens to Master Chief.
 
  I would recommend this game to any hardcore FPS gamer or to any newcomers. You are not a real FPS 
 gamer until you play Halo.
  
  My Score 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raimgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total masterpiece! The levels, the difficulty, everything! Just the first level 
 is intense! This game is a total suspense, nonstop action! Though it is better to beat it on higher 
 difficulties, for more challenges. Maybe there are no bosses, but you get to fight great armies 
 of villains! Great weapons, design and everything. Some places may not be the best designed, but 
 is an all-out warfare in every step. Though this is no game to just go and put a gun in the front 
 of your enemy. It is better to kill them more, fast, without anybody knowing. The vehicles are 
 sweet! The Banshee is a nice ship to fly! So what are you waiting for? Go to a store and play it! 
 Plus, the enemies don't care of where you are. You may be on the longest place of the universe 
 and they'll shoot you! Hard enemies, no bosses but this sure proves who is top guns in the gaming 
 experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangman
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved is a game that was originally released as a launch title for the XBOX in 2001, 
 developed by Bungie. The game was also released for the PC in 2003 - developed by Bungie and Gearbox 
 Software (of Brothers in Arms fame, Half-Life: Opposing Force and Blue Shift) . I played it in 2008.
 
  
  The reason I started playing Halo earlier this week is because I heard so many things about it 
 and finally wanted to check it out for myself; particularily because this game was praised into 
 the heavens when it was released and many other people felt that the game was overrated or even 
 downright bad.
  
  The game's plot - or at least the part of it that was relevant to the gameplay - seemed fairly 
 straightforward: Mankind is at war with an alien race called "The Covenant" and a super-soldier 
 called "Master Chief" (the player) has to pair with the AI called Cortana to attempt to defeat 
 this alien race. Of course some third party that is hostile to everyone is introduced in the game; 
 The Flood. There are some other plot elements that seemed to make very little sense; for example 
 the function of the "Halo" weapon in the game is not to destroy The Flood as one might think, in 
 order to prevent them from eating the entire universe.. No, the function of the device is to kill 
 off the entire universe to starve The Flood to death. You figure that out.
  Also the characters were not that convincing, Cortana didn't feel like an AI character at all. 
 I was hoping she would behave somewhat like a benevolent SHODAN (System Shock 2) but alas that 
 was not the case. Instead we had an AI that was not omniscient and a little too emotional.
  
  The game has some innovative elements to it; the usage of vehicles, the health system, the 
 weapon system (only allows you to carry 2 weapons) , the grenade system.. All of these things have 
 slipped into mainstream usage and are now used by most games out there - Though I think it wasn't 
 until Call of Duty 2 that these innovations really became popular.
  
  The level design is average at best. It's not because the level design itself is lacking anything 
 - it's just that it seems to be copy-pasted quite a bit and once you get past a certain point in 
 the game, you have to replay most levels in reverse and with different weather conditions and different 
 monsters - that felt rather lazy. The first and second levels are easily the best of the bunch, 
 once I crashlanded on the alien planet I felt like I was playing Unreal for a moment; but that's 
 probably because the Covenant Elites felt like straight copies from the Skaarj troopers (at least 
 what their behaviour was concerned)
  
  The best thing about Halo is probably the soundtrack - It seemed masterfully created and is used 
 well throughout the game (although the main theme song might've been used a little too much) .
 
  
  Not everything is positive about this game however. Most of the levels had plenty of copy-pasted 
 areas and The Library level is easily one of the most boring levels in any game that I've ever 
 played. It starts off promising with you walking through a large hi-tech facility, shooting at 
 creatures with a shotgun... But this process is endlessly repeated. Copy-pasted rooms with copy-pasted 
 gameplay for about an hour. Not fun.
  
  But that's really about the only criticism I can think of for this game - It had one really crappy 
 level and several lazily designed areas, but these didn't bother me too much.
  
  Supposedly the multiplayer is what makes this game really really good but I don't give much of 
 a crap about that. The multiplayer portion of the game shouldn't be an excuse for a game being 
 only half-good (Yahtzee's words) .
  
  Overall the game was fun to play - It's definitely not a bad game. But it's not the gift from God 
 that a lot of Halo fans seem to think it is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been a great game for the PC, but it was badly ported (which means not great 
 gameplay) . The story itself is OK, nothing good either. It suffers from bad story telling and I 
 didn't find the story that interesting in the first place. Most the time it's mostly about just 
 killing aliens or finding people. That leads to one of the major problems in this game, which is 
 getting lost. There is a lot of backtracking which will surely confuse you and make you lost in 
 the game, it also doesn't help how all the corridors and hallways look the same. Single player 
 will probably have you go around once, and that's about it. Nothing spectacular and really no replay 
 value for you to go over it again. It's also pretty short, even though legendary boots up the playing 
 time, it still is a pretty short game. 
  
  The multiplayer also suffers from problems. The biggest one is the lag. A lot of servers are player 
 hosted, which means the host will have a BIG advantage in the game. I've gone somewhere between 
 60 kills and like 3 deaths as a host. But when you aren't host, it just gets frustrating. You will 
 lag, and the host will not. Where the host shoots you, that's where you get shot. But, if you aren't 
 the host, even if your crosshair is on somebody's head and you shoot, odds are it won't hit the 
 person. This is because of lag. Site/dedicated hosted servers aren't much better either, only better 
 thing is everybody seems to lag so nobody has the host advantage. It can be fun, but the lag issue 
 is a big problem. Also, the patches haven't solved the problems of lag online, which is a bit of 
 a disappointment. 
  
  Overall, this is a game that could have been great, but instead was badly ported and not worked 
 on enough. Should have definitely worked more on the multiplayer to get it running better, but 
 sadly the makers didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  After a year of being out on the Xbox, PC Gamers eagerly awaited this amazing FPS game to come 
 to the PC. With games like Half-Life, Halo cant be called the best FPS shooter on the PC, not by 
 far but its still very enjoyable.
  It can be used with a controller or the classic K/M which is great for FPS.
  Singleplayer is 
 fun, and everything about this game is like the Xbox version, great vehicles, fun guns, crazy aliens, 
 cool maps make is a great game!
  Whats the difference between the Xbox version and the PC Version? Multiplayer. My favorite part 
 of Halo on Xbox was playing with all my buddies, that was the best experiance. Co-op with friends 
 while drinking pepsi and eating chips on a saturday afternoon. PC's Halo sucks with Real Life friends. 
 But ONLINE Gameplay is so much better! Its much funner online on the PC, jumps you right in the 
 game and is a much better online experiance.
  
  Anyhow, its still a great game, very fun, and you owe it to yourself to check it out.
  
  
 
  My rating scale depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games 
 on it, i mark much harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of 
 other awesome PC games of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game 
 is a great game, on the system. I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you 
 and get to the point. If theres an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read 
 it because they are the best reviewers in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Fun 9/10
  Replay 8/10
  Single+Multiplayer 8/10
  
  
  Overall = 41/50 
 = 82% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewing55
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Duh! anything with master chief on it is awesome. it is an awesome first person shooter with great 
 multiplayer. and on the pc, you can turn the blood off. its great for any body who likes first 
 person shooters or any shooters for that mater. The story is really suspensful and awesome. in 
 short.... its the best game ever. and its cheap too! plus the sound track is great and i just cant 
 explain how great it is. you will just have to play it to figure out what i mean. what are you 
 doing still sitting there? go buy  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmansBullet
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This was a total letdown for me. 
  When the last game in the saga (halo 3) came out I thought it was time to finally play through 
 the first one. It began pretty good. The story seemed ok, and I was ready to begin my journey. 
 
  The game gives you plenty of freedom, but not in a good way. I dont see whats so good about have 
 nothing but a bunch of objectives when you`re not even have a map, so that was real pathetic. But, 
 atleast you were in the spacecraft. And not to reveal to much, it crashes and you`re on a field. 
 Ok, a field. So I have to find my crew (which was a pain in the ass and blah, blah, blah...) , lol 
 Iam not totally stupid, I have completed the game and everything but I look at myself as pathetic 
 just telling you all this. It feels like in half of the game you just wondering what the heck to 
 do, but thats ok, its the first of the series and Halo has after all a huge fanclub, so thats ok. 
 But, after a while it begins to feel like torture, like REAL torture... 
  
  I might have given this game a 7.0 score, because I might not have been so patient and all, but 
 its one level that ruins all for me.
  One level, that makes this game fall from decent to horrible.
  One level, that really makes your 
 frustration goes to a new level!
  The FLOOD. THE FREAKING FLOOD!! Yeah, thats right... The game just goes from Sci-Fi to horror after 
 half of the game. But, thats ok. Thats not my problem. My problem is just that you have go through 
 thousands of corridors killing everything you see, and everything looks the same. Its bad. Iam 
 starting to think that Microsoft was on drugs making this level, but its in Halo 3 too so I dont 
 know... But it sucks. It sucks bad... Its real pathetic. 
  It dont find words for how bad it is. It might aswell just said Game Over and then giving you a 
 choice to either play through the level or just watch the ending cause thats what we want right? 
 RIGHT?! 
  But, if you just ignore this one level the game might be worth a try. And if you like SCI-FI shooters 
 this is a good game to try out.
  But, dont think the FLOOD is some "ALIEN"-like level, its just a badly designed level that you 
 are going to have nightmares (not because its scary, but because its boring!) about if you play 
 to much in a row!
  
  You have been warned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyKoeffler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Well not as good as the XBox version, the PC version features online play, all XBox missions, all 
 the weapons, and all the vehicles. And not only does it have human weapons like the sniper rifle 
 or rocket launcher, but it also has alien weapons like the Needler and the plasma rifle. Even for 
 a game in 2003, you have to admit it has good graphics for its time. And the even better thing 
 is you don't need a 6800 or 8800GT (ahem, Crysis) graphics card, heck I only have a 6150SE. The 
 story makes sence and Master Chief is definetely a cool character. The game wouldn't be the same 
 without him (or her?) . And what's really fun is the online play with up to 15 of your friends (16 
 total) . It's arguable that this is better than Halo 2, but it's definitely a close call. This is 
 definitely a great instant classic game for the PC.
  
  I give Halo: Combat Evolved for the PC a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acesoron
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I have only played this game on PC so I am by no way rating the XBOX version, just to make that 
 clear. Back to the point, I found myself wanting more from this game, with all these good ratings 
 and the crazy large fan base. But for a FPS on the PC it really doesn't hold a match to the greats. 
 
  
  For the single player it really was just a simple story with attempts at wit. If the gameplay was 
 outstanding it would have more than made us for the story. Towards the end I found myself struggling 
 to finish, which is a sign of an uninvolving story. A good game makes you want to finish and want 
 more afterwards. That being said there were moments that were fun, like watching grunts run away 
 screaming did make me laugh. Some epic battles with your friendly AI, who never impressed me but 
 rarely pissed me off. So all in all the single player was OK, just that, nothing more.
  
  For multiplayer, there really are better games out there. The gameplay is SLOW and with some of 
 these maps you can be going ages before seeing anyone, even with a populated server. While I have 
 fun at times with the pistol, which by the way is the most unbalanced weapon I have ever seen. 
 The pistol, pea-shooter, or whatever is not suppose to be one of the best weapons you can have. 
 Be that as it is, the other weapons were diverse which is pleasant. While the plasma rifle has 
 never done anything for me all the other weapons come into play well at some point. The fuel rod 
 with its quick firing blasts, to the Needler for it humorous tracking ability. So just like the 
 single player the multiplayer is just OK. And just want to emphasize once again it is way too slow. 
 
  
  So in the end, just an OK game. 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingHiei42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I love it how this version of Halo has health bars, which allows for very interesting and exciting 
 battles when shields are turned off. The multiplayer is excellent and, if you ask me, better than 
 halo 3's because there is no waiting times, you just click a server and go.
  
  What is more is that if you have Halo CE you can get endless mods for the game, which obviously 
 helps the game push itself above its console counterparts.
  
  Handling
  I believe that it is much easier to aim with a mouse than a controller, and a lot of people would 
 agree with me on this. It makes the gameplay much more enjoyable and doesnt lead to you cursing 
 after you hold down the analogue stick down for too long and the camera movement speeds up unaturally 
 and you miss :/
  
  I also think that in Halo 3 there is a feel of less gravity, which may be fine for some, but I 
 find it makes the game slower and detracts from the overall feel of the game.
  
  Well I know a lot of people will disagree with this but its my review and my opinion k?! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraOfKingdom
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  This game's been popular for an outstanding multiplayer but to me, the multiplayer isnt that great 
 and seems dull and boring. But first of all, i'd like to comment on the single player, ok to start 
 off you're Master Chief, and the galaxy depends on you to defeat a weird alien race and destroy 
 their ring, the story is umm.. ok but what bothers me is the not-so-good graphics even on high 
 settings and the bad set of weapons you can choose but other than that it's great, the character 
 design is great, the dialogue is great, the maps are great and the enemies are challenging to say 
 the least. But if this game would've been released earlier than 2003, I would've gave it a higher 
 rating understanding the not-so-good graphics but this game compared to the other ones released 
 in the same year, the graphics arent good enough. They should've improved it rather than just releasing 
 a port blindlessly without any improvements to an old game. I give this an 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playaslaya11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  So Halo on the PC, does it live up to its Xbox counter part, well read on.
  But, who cares its a chance for PC gamers to get their mits on the number one shooter on the Xbox.
 
  
  Now this Game is an exact port of the Xbox version, which means the Graphics are allready 3 years 
 old. But thats no biggie for me, they are still decent today and graphics dont really worry me 
 that much anyway. The gameplay remains as action packed as always and the delicious Sci-Fi story 
 line is still there. And here is where a potential worry lies, for those that are into the whole 
 story part of games will probably be asking, since this is the first in a trilogy, is there any 
 annoying cliffhangers? (especially since the whole trilogy isnt out yet) Well you can sleep soundly 
 tonight because (im comparing to Star Wars again) like Star Wars IV this game wraps up the story 
 neatly and the game could be expirienced by it self, or as a trilogy.
  
  This game is probably the best Console-to-PC port Ive seen. (And trust me, Ive seen terrible, terrible 
 things) While some of the controls really dont work like PC controls should, you can easily map 
 out your own so no problems there.
  
  Now that thats all done were onto the sweet, sweet multiplayer. And yes, it rocks. The multiplayer 
 is the only reason I would buy this if I allredy had it on the 'box. The multiplater obviously 
 works much better than on the Xbox simply because you dont have to pay subscription for Xbox live. 
 There are also plenty of servers to choose aswell as the abillity to run lan matches
  
  So is it better or worse than the Xbox version? Well the multiplayer on PC has far more servers 
 than the Xbox version and you dont have to pay but the multiplayer dosent live up to say, Battlefield 
 2, but it is the best Sci-Fi shooter on and off line, great for the battlefield wary online gamers. 
 As for the single player, great story and gameplay but it the Same as the Xbox version. In the 
 end it just depends on whether you prefer an analog stick or a mouse under you finger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 6
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9
  
  When Halo was released back in 2001 it was regarded as the darling and saviour for the Xbox. To 
 be honest, I have no idea of why this is so. All I know at that point in time was Halo was originally 
 made for the PC as a strategy type of game with a 3rd person viewpoint. Well, things have changed 
 back then and eventually what will be a success for the Xbox will eventually be ported over to 
 where it once belong; to the PC.
  
  I've always asked the dying question of What's so great about Halo?. Naturally I 
 really couldnt get any decent answer besides It rocks hard or super 
 co-op mode. Really people, the PC already have these super traits. Nevertheless, 
 I bought the game, installed it and played it  twice! Yep, you heard (read) it. I really 
 enjoyed Halo as for me it was a different approach to that ever-saturated FPS genre. So sit back 
 and enjoy reading this review.
  
  Halo starts off in the cruise ship The Pillar of Autumn. After narrowing escaping 
 The Covenant during the Reach Wars, they catapulted close to the orbit of Halo. The 
 ship has a precious cargo on board, one of the last Spartan Warriors named Master Chief 
 who is a bio-engineered freak-a-zoid is the centre of all things. Well naturally, the ship is under 
 attack, Keyes orders Chief to escape to Halo with the most important cargo, the AI named Cortana. 
 If Cortana is captured (along with Master Chief) the last known place of humanly will be discovered 
 and ultimately destroyed. Now this sounds like a typical Sci-Fi story however as you participate 
 further in the game, the tale does actually gets interesting and to say the least, the third party 
 named The Flood is one of the best introduction in any FPS game I have witnessed 
 and the forth, the Forerunner Sentinels will provide that aura of mystery.
  
  The gameplay is naturally in the style of a FPS. However because its a ported Xbox game, 
 I felt that the controls are a little awkward at first. All the weapons have no alt fire and the 
 entire pace of the game was a little too slow. However as you progress in the game, it actually 
 suits fine as the combat in Halo is not what youll expect in most PC FPS. 
  
  Firstly, Master Chief can only carry two weapons so theres going to be some tactical thought 
 in those firefights. Secondly, duck and cover will be your bread and butter of this game as the 
 AI are extremely cunning. Speaking of which, I thought the developers have made considerable effort 
 with the AI as every enemy and allies act accordingly to what youll expect. To those lowly 
 Grunts whose main game is strength in numbers, to those Jackels that will hide behind their glowing 
 shields, to the elites who are painfully hard to kill as they tend to use cover to heal their build-in 
 shields and to those extremely tough Hunters that uses pure brute strength. To add all of this, 
 there are different variants of Grunts, Elites and Jackals (some have invisibility whilst some 
 will carry very large weaponry) and naturally there are many different variants of The Flood (Ill 
 keep this one a secret) . Lastly, Master Chiefs armour regenerates (if stationed long enough) 
 therefore health packs are very limited.
  
  As mentioned before, the combat style in Halo CE is what attracted me to this game. Combined with 
 the intelligent AI, one thing I have noticed that many other FPS failed to utilised are the grenades. 
 Im a big fan of grenades however always disappointed in their role. Yet in Halo CE, expect 
 plenty of lobbing grenades and finding cover. And what is good for the goose is good for the gander 
  that is the AI will do the same. Another distinctive innovation was the perfect balance 
 of the entire vehicle collection. All vehicles are distinctive in style; that is the Warthog which 
 is like a buggy with a nasty gattling gun in its rear; the scorpion  a battle tank; The 
 Ghost - Covenant Reconnaissance and Rapid Attack Vehicle and the Banshee - Covenant Aerial Assault 
 Aircraft. As you can see, there are land and air vehicles to suit all needs.
  
  If there is a weak point to this game I say it will be the graphics. Considering the PC's release 
 date was 2003, even though the entire outdoor environments are visually beautiful with cascading 
 waterfalls, soaring mountains combining with nice looking architectures and less not forget that 
 awe-inspiring Halo that archs upwards from the horizon, the indoor environments reminded me of 
 Tron; not a bad thing however certainly behind the times. You have the Unreal 2 engine and the 
 Chrome engine in its fullest glory and comparing these to Halo CE, I wished that the entire engine 
 was rending by one of those. Nevertheless, the movements of friends and foes are very fluent and 
 nothing to complain about.
  
  When I initially heard the soundtrack to Halo CE, it really caught me by surprise. I was expecting 
 some grungy type rock scores however Bungie used more of that melodic, Georgian monks chants and 
 surprisingly enough blends very well within the game. It was so pleasant to hear I actually bought 
 the CD. Other sounds are also well constructed. The sounds of gun fire and explosions are well 
 composed however I was more impressed of the sounds that you normally dont take any notice. 
 Im talking about the shuffling sounds when you spin around on shiny surfaces, those horse-trotting 
 clatter when the Grunts move around to those sickening sounds produced from The Flood. If you decide 
 to play the game, take notice of those sounds that you normally take for granted; they are really 
 impressive. The voice-acting was also on par and well performed. Master Chief does sound like a 
 heroic type, Captain Keyes a proud commander and so forth however I really didnt like the 
 sounds of the Grunts. They sound like little children  literally.
  
  Halo CE is quite a lengthy game as far as FPS goes. Even though the entire single player is not 
 that long however considering the style of combat as noted above will slow down the game hence 
 will take some time to finish; maybe 15 - 20 hours max. Halo CE also have four levels of difficulty 
 and if you managed to finish off the legendry mode, there is a small bonus ending which is definitely 
 worth viewing. 
  
  Just because you finish off the single player is not the end of the game. The PC version has a 
 well developed multiplayer mode thats not to be missed. I personally not a fan for multiplayer 
 however considering all the efforts of polishing it up, I really enjoyed this aspect. There are 
 many game modes to choice from (from Death Match to Capture the Flag and so forth) however as mentioned 
 before, because of the perfect balance of Halos CE vehicles, there are even game play styles 
 that specifically taylored for vehicles, like racing! Take note that just like the single player, 
 going gun-ho with all guns ablazing will guarantee death therefore slow-and-steady will win the 
 race. I was burnt many times as coming from fast-paced multiplayer action like Unreal Tournament 
 and Quake this came to me as a surprise however I have paid my dues.
  
  I felt that Bungie have made considerable efforts to make Halo CE a successful port as normally 
 ported games are just that  ported across with no efforts to adjust to a different platform. 
 The reality is that consoles are consoles and PCs are PCs and it seems that Bungie understood this. 
 That said, there were some aspects that I wished they improved on, namely graphics however graphics 
 isnt everything. For what I have read, I felt that most PC FPS veterans thought 
 that Halo CE is nothing more than a boring ported console game. I beg to differ as even though 
 its tagged as a FPS, the tactics behind this game is what made it different therefore if 
 players alter their game play style (and admittedly I was one of them as Im a huge UT/Quake 
 fan) they will also appreciate this wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Albiewan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Halo basiclly set the standard for modern fps's. The rebounding health meter, wide selection of 
 weapons etc. But what really keeps me busy these days is the legendary multiplayer mode. I can 
 seriously play this endlessly. Lots of vehicles, wide array of weapons, a lot of maps. 
  
  What also makes Halo a great game is the story. Normally fps's don't have that good of a story. 
 But that's what i can appreciate from Halo is the story. Planet Earth is at war with the Covenant. 
 A Covenant of Alien planet's. Captain Key's ship, the Pillar of Autumn, is being attacked while 
 floating through space. You play as a man in a Spartan (not the ancient Greek, but an elite group 
 of warriors that help Earth through this war) suite with a helmet, so you can't see his face. He 
 is only known by his rank; Master Chief. He is on the Pillar of Autumn. This is the first stage. 
 After escpaing in an escape pod, you land on he planet Halo (that explain's the title) , an artificial 
 planet created by prophets from the Covenant thousands of years ago. You don't find out what the 
 function is till the end of the game. Explaining Halo's function is not only a spoiler, but i would 
 have to explain the entire story, wich would take a few weeks. 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. But one of the most awesome parts is the enemy a. i. (artificial intelligence) . 
 The enemy's will send each other forward, they will throw grenades tacticly, they will take cover, 
 and when they're outnumbered they will run away screaming. The singleplayer campaign will take 
 some time to complete. And you will enjoy every second from it. With lots of plot twists, awesome 
 cut scenes, great multiplayer, great campaign, great storyline. This is one of the greatest games 
 ever. Even if you don't like fps's, i'm most certain that you will like this. A must buy for everyone.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrenthsSlayer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Quite possibly one of the greatest series in gaming, Halo is definitely a must buy. As you'll see 
 in my review, no arguments can hope to bring it down from its reign. Halo is also a bargain - it's 
 as good as Halo 3 (to me) and is a lot cheaper to buy and play.
  
  1. Campaign
  
  Halo's Campaign mode is an absolute treasure. The difficulties range from "Eh, not too hard" to 
 "OMG HOW'D HE JUST KILL ME???" and this is good because when I look at a game I need a challenge 
 and Halo's Legendary mode (once again, to me - I'm a Halo novice) is saying "We know you're a gamer 
 - that doesn't mean we'll go easy on you though". The way the story is told is amazing. It starts 
 as an action FPS, but halfway it goes into the horror setting, with the parasitic race known as 
 the Flood. All in all it can't be compared to completely unoriginal games like Mario - excluding 
 Super Paper Mario.
  
  2. Conclusion (I'm skipping multiplayer because everyone knows that it is amazing - it would be 
 like talking about single player in the Sims) .
  
  Halo is certainly an amazing game from start to finish. Though it is practically ancient by today's 
 standards that doesn't affect the fun you have. If you have a PC or Xbox - buy it. By the way though 
 this is a Halo PC review I'd still say it counts as a Halo Xbox review as well. So that's it then. 
 Hope you agree with my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitoMysterio619
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  First I must admit that I had no plans on ever playing this game. It completely set a level of 
 standards that everyone began using as a comparison with other FPS games. So basically, before 
 I even played this game, I already hated it.
  
  I first played the game at a friends house on the PC (it had already been available on Xbox for 
 quite some time) . I thought it was ok, but nothing spectacular. Then somehow I ended up borrowing 
 the game for a while. It sat on my desk for ever without even being played. Then one night I was 
 really bored so I started playing it. I must admit that at first I thought it was pretty bland. 
 Nothing stood out that said, "This is the ultimate FPS." So at first I thought it was just a bunch 
 of stupid hype.
  
  Next thing I knew, I was on Chapter 3 and things were starting to get very interesting. I think 
 if it hadn't been for such a great story that was starting to unfold, I might never have been so 
 drawn in. But I felt that I had to keep playing just to see what would happen next (kind of like 
 a really good book) . Not only the story, but the action as well make this game a truly unforgettable 
 experience that no one should miss out on.
  
  One of my favorite, but yet most irritating parts of the game is trying to decide which gun to 
 go with. I never really cared for any of the Covenant's weapons. I always stuck with the Standard 
 Issue Marine Firearms. I actually seemed to really like the handgun better than the damn assault 
 rifle. However, the shotgun was by far my favorite. I also like the sniper rifle, but it sure doesn't 
 hold much ammo. Since you can only carry two weapons at a time, it was very difficult for me to 
 decide which firearms to select when I would find a weapons-cache.
  
  What is even better is that the graphics are so great, they actually help out the gameplay. Never 
 would I have thought that being able to see so far away would actually add to some of the fun. 
 Now I can snipe off any enemies that I can find before I even come close enough for them to see 
 me.
  
  The visuals are just about perfect. My only complaint is that when you're using the scope on the 
 sniper rifle, the enemies seem to look a little clunky through the scope lense. I don't know if 
 this was done on purpose or not. Also a little more attention to detail in the environments, and 
 this game could quite possibly be up there on the top 5 games of all time.
  
  Explosions, gun-fire, creature noises, covenant back-talk, marine chit-chat, whatever it may be, 
 it's all present and done very well. Again, almost perfect, only downfall is that the music needed 
 to chime in a little more often with some changes to add to the atmosphere. Also maybe a little 
 more socialism from the Chief would've helped. He seems a little shy, especially in the first half 
 of the game.
  
  With online play and a great story, you can't go wrong either way. Even after you've beat it once 
 and played online a few dozen times, there is no reason why you wouldn't want to play through the 
 story again (maybe with a higher difficulty level) . This game has been out for a while now, so 
 I'm willing to bet you could pick it up for peanuts.
  
  Just about anyone could and SHOULD own this game. I usually played the game on my laptop (which 
 is a huge powerhouse) because I could get the most out of the game. However, I was still able to 
 run the game on my 500Mhz Intel Celeron, 256MB RAM, but yet 64MB stand alone video card. I'm sure 
 that if I had tried it without the stand alone video card (meaning I would've just used the shared 
 video) , it would've sucked really bad. So with the independent graphics card, I adjusted the displays 
 to lower settings, and it played beautifully. So that means that the majority of computer owners 
 would be able to play this without a hitch. GO BUY IT NOW!
  
  I hate to say it, but I think the story line beats my original FPS all-time favorite, which was 
 Red Faction. Sorry Parker, but the Chief needs my help to stop the Covenant and the Flood. Mars 
 will just have to wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_kenny13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Halo is a one of a kind game. Everyone who's reading this has probably played it, or at least know 
 what it is. I'm just doing this review to pay tribute to the game. Halo: Combat Evolved is perhaps 
 one of a handful of truly perfect games! The graphics: awesome, the sound: awesome, the lag: none 
 unless your playing on a computer not made for games. The story line is very well thought of. The 
 action sequences are very well done. The colors of all the characters are done very well. Very 
 addictive, but surprisingly not very hard, the game will seem repetitive at first, but as soon 
 as you think that, some surprise jumps out at you! A warning though, you might want to put a note 
 at your head saying that you wont here anyone that talks to you, because you will be very immersed 
 in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved was released almost 2 years after the initial release on the XBox. It was 
 originally hailed as one of the greatest FPS's on a console. However, since the PC is known for 
 great FPS's, it doesn't really shine through the hords of other great FPS games out there.
  
  Halo starts you out as Master Chief, an elite marine on the Pillar of Autumn, a great military 
 ship. The Covenant, an alien race, board the ship and are trying to find the coordinates to earth. 
 Cortana, the AI aboard the ship, goes with Master Chief as the escape and land on a strange planet 
 shaped like a halo, hence the name. The planet is covered in Covenant, but there is a deeper evil 
 lying on the planet. 
  
  This game is pretty old, so the graphics don't hold up to todays standards. However, even when 
 this was released on the XBox, it was not one of the best looking games out there. With games like 
 Doom 3 being ported to the XBox, this game looks a little subpar. That doesn't mean it looks bad. 
 There happens to be a lot of blues, purples and other odd colors that make up the game. They work 
 well, however, but it would have been nice to see some more "serious" colors that make up the atmosphhere. 
 
  
  The sound is pretty good. The voice acting between Master Cheif and Cortana is top notch, and the 
 military grunts do a good job too. The Covenant are more amusing than anything. Guns sound off 
 in a realistic tone, all but the shotgun. The shotgun comes across as flat. The music in the game 
 is really great as well, but sometimes you will trudge through long parts of the game with no music 
 whatsoever. 
  
  As far as gameplay, this game is just a little weak for a PC game. Master Chief is very slow, jumps 
 really high and seems to "float" down after a jump. This may have worked well on a console where 
 it is a little harder to be precise with a controller, but with a mouse and keyboard, it slows 
 the action a little. The aiming reticle is also different for every gun, but they are huge. It 
 really makes it seem like this was ripped straight from a console. The guns are really great though. 
 You have your standard guns such as assualt rifle, pistol, rocket launcher, shotgun, sniper rifle, 
 and frag grenades. But you also have free access to the Covenant weaponry. They have unique laser 
 weapons such as a pistol with a chargeable shot, a repeating laser gun, a needler weapon that pierces 
 the enemy with exploding needles, and a really satisfying plasma grenade that sticks to the enemy. 
 There are also a large supply of drivable vehicles in the game, and they all translate over to 
 mouse and keyboard flawlessly. 
  
  One revolutionary feature is the rechargable shields. Most games give you shields or armor to compliment 
 your health, but in Halo you don't take a bit of damage until your shields run out. If they do, 
 all you need to do is hide for a few moments to recharge the shields. You do have a health meter, 
 and it is whittled down quickly once the shieds are gone, so it doesn't feel unbalanced. 
  
  Halo was hailed for it's great multiplayer, but it is a little slow paced for the average PC 
 gamer. When I started a CTF game, everyone was going very slow. This was the opposite of what I 
 was used to in Unreal Tournament or Quake. There is also standard fare deathmatch and race mode 
 where you race Warthogs (a jeep like vehicle with a gattling gun on the back) . The most fun in 
 multiplayer comes with the maps with the vehicles. Without these, the maps are kind of boring. 
 The PC game also comes with 2 new weapons, a flamethrower and a plasma bazooka. 
  
  I should also note that my gaming rig encountered crashes with my nVidia card. This is a common 
 problem, but I cannot blame Microsoft for this. This game is very old now. The problem arose from 
 a rare texture that could not be rendered properly. However, it was very annoying because the only 
 way I could proceed is to turn it on safe mode.
  
  Halo is nothing revolutionary to a PC gamer. It can be called "been there, done that," but makes 
 for a satsfying expierence. I can't come across and recommend it to the seasoned PC FPS gamer, 
 however if someone who has never played a FPS asked me to recommend a FPS game to get started with 
 FPS gaming, I would definitely recommed Halo. It is not too difficult, nor is it a cake walk. The 
 early levels seem too easy whereas the later levels pose a greater challange. Thankfully the story 
 is also top notch, rounding out a good expierence. Unfortunately, it seems Halo may never be the 
 next great PC FPS game, but it sure is a sold one, especially for console gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HackerSP
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  oh hype you truely do make games seem like there going to be good but really its not ok here we 
 go.
  
  1. the framerates in single player is really really really bad.
  
  2. ALMOST all servers LAG insanely bad the on servers that dont lag are the ones not hosted by the 
 players but hosted by a server.
  
  3. Driving is like driving on ICE ok your car slips and slides way to much but to over compinsate 
 for that they gave the cars invinceability, gun with unlimited ammo and speed but the invicebaility 
 is probley bad because you take the damage and not the car
  
  4. No spawn protection=snipers kill you alot or spawn campers.
  
  5. Team Killers ya there is 
 a 50 percent chance you will run into and team killer and he will start killing your team off while 
 snipers and other guys are assaulting your base.
  
  6. weapons just need a little tune up in accuracy
  
  ok if you can truelly get past all that 
 this game will be good
  for you but not by much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electric-Guitar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  
  First.. Hi
  ---------------------------
  Second.. Halo, the best selling game on Xbox, makes its highly anticipated move to the PC, courtesy 
 of Bungie and Gearbox Software. Halo, enhanced for play on the PC, contains all of the action-packed 
 combat and thrilling gameplay that made the title a smash hit for video game fans everywhere. Armed 
 with a brand new arsenal of weapons and vehicles, Halo delivers challenges and surprises, as well 
 as intense online multiplayer competition exclusively for the PC, including new multiplayer maps. 
 
  Rich sci-fi experience. Halo transports you into a science fiction universe fresh out of a Hollywood 
 movie, with a detailed, twisting storyline, complex characters and cunning enemies. 
  
  
  Vehicle- and foot-based action. Tackle missions any way you choose, be it storming an enemy base 
 or taking the wheel or gunnery position in a variety of powerful vehicles. Vehicles range from 
 stolen Covenant flyers to human tanks and more. 
  
  
  Intense online multiplayer shootouts. Take the battle online with gamers from all over the world 
 in a variety of individual and team based games such as Capture the Flag, Death Match, Oddball, 
 King of the Hill, Race, and more. Includes brand new multiplayer maps in addition to all the classic 
 originals. 
  
  
  Huge weapon variety. Crush enemies with a vast array of human or Covenant weaponry, ranging from 
 the stealthy semiautomatic pistols and Needler to the fierce Rocket Launcher and Fuel Rod Gun. 
 
  
  
  Incredible mission variety. Fight the Covenant in a variety of missions as you uncover the dark 
 secrets of Halo: attack outposts, raid underground labs for advanced technology, rescue fallen 
 comrades, steal alien vehicles and weaponry, and snipe at enemy forces. 
  
  
  Indoor and outdoor combat. Fights are seamless in Halo's ultrarealistic indoor and outdoor environments. 
 Hunt the Covenant continuously in a variety of single-player and multiplayer battles continuously. 
 
  
  
  Optimized for the PC. With the precision of mouse and keyboard support, play Halo like never before. 
 Exploit high-end graphic cards with Halo in 1,600x1,200 resolution. 
  
  
  Dolby 5.1 compatible. Enemy troops yell out the front speakers, while friendly troops yell assistance 
 from the side. Hear bullets fired from behind you and watch them strike targets ahead in total 
 surround sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  In Halo: Combat Evolved it's the year 2552 and you play as a super soldier codenamed Spartan 117, 
 but is usually called Master Chief. In the game the humans (you) discover a planetary ring called 
 "Halo". You fight a religious group of aliens called the Covenant who don't want you on there ring. 
 You have other marines fighting with you, but you mostly go alone in the game.
  
  Halo has a great story to the game other than being just a shooter. You have a variety of guns, 
 vehicles, and gadgets with you in the game like assault rifles, pistols, sniper rifles, tanks, 
 warthogs (jeeps) , banshees, grenades, etc. The guns fire well have a nice sound and feel as well 
 as vehicles, grenades go boom everything. In the game you have health, but you also have a shield. 
 It acts as a buffer for your health until you really take damage. What's good about it is that 
 it recharges and it can help you beat a mission without health frustration. The are 10 levels with 
 terrain variety like snow, urban, grasslands, etc. The sound and gameplay is good, but the graphics 
 are kind of outdated.
  
  Halo: Combat Evolved is a great game for the PC and is lots of fun. If your a fan of a shooter 
 than you better go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crapman785
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Yeah the muiltiplayer is awsome and i'm suprised so many people still play halo combat evloved 
 with you know halo 2 and halo 3 out. You get to just play with your regular internet connection. 
 broadband preferbly for maximum preformence and the ability to create servers. The two new weapons 
 for halo CE for the PC are the flamethrower and the fuel rod cannon. Many new features can be added 
 too. you can download mods and different maps.
  
  The campaign has no different storyline and you still have the standard weapons from the xbox version. 
 you cannot connect to play co-op. the controls take about 2 hours to almost fully master them.
 
  
  Most halo fans know all this stuff but if you have never played halo and want to start playing 
 I reccomend playing halo combat evolved for the pc first, then play halo 2 on the xbox and if you 
 have a 360 get halo 3 its an awesome game but you need to play 1 & 2 first. 
  
  I hope this review helped you to understand this game a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 021294
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  This game is smooth, indoor to outdoor, vehicle to foot, the door opens, you walk in, the camera 
 smoothly zoomes from first person to third person when you enter vehicle, and reverses when you 
 get out. with immersive indoor and outdoor enviroments, to me, and to hundreds of other gamers, 
 the word HALO means fast paced, adreniline pumping action. heaps of different adversaries, weapons 
 and vehicles make this game good in that there are many different ways to complete a level. multiplayer 
 is realy fun, with dogfights and tank battles with snipers and guyes with rockets and grenades, 
 multiplayer brings the masses.
  but in the end, the story line (not just in this game but through the whole series) is what made 
 this game so good. it has been made into many books, and it keeps you hanging. this is gaming at 
 its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliblabla2007
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved was originally released for Microsoft's Xbox console in 2001. It received 
 great praise and critical acclaim, but also was criticized and called an overrated, average-quality 
 shooter.
  
  But is it? 
  
  As a PC-only gamer, I enjoyed the Single Player Campaign for Halo: Combat Evolved, though I have 
 not tried the multiplayer. I think it is a tad bit overrated (not deserving of the 9.7 that it 
 received from Gamespot) but I would not call it "mediocre" or "average".
  
  What are the faults? Well, it has an uninteresting "Space Marine" techy character with no personality. 
 Master Chief seems to be the type of guy who follows orders around like a robot. His backstory 
 isn't even explained in the game, and game tries to make him "kool" by not revealing his face.
 
  
  It has repetitive level design that involves a lot of back-tracking. Often, each map you will feel 
 like you have been through the same corridors over and over again, and in some of the levels you'll 
 be moving back and forth.
  
  It is poorly optimized.
  
  And the weapons of the "good side" are generic and boring "Modern Earth-like" weapons used by the 
 UNSC. From the "Pistol" to the "Assault Rifle" to the "Rocket Launcher" which are pretty common 
 FPS weapons only without interesting names.
  
  The Halo Universe itself is interesting, though little of it is fleshed out in the game. Master 
 Chief's background, as stated, is not revealed in Halo: Combat Evolved - nor is much of the background 
 of any faction in here.
  
  However, there are good sides to the game. It is good if you want some "simplistic" fun with maybe 
 a bit of thought involved. You can find yourself sneaking around while cloaked and wondering which 
 enemy to stick a plasma grenade on. 
  
  You can slowly and quietly walk up to an enemy and whack him on the back with your Shotgun. You 
 can choose to rush in an area full of Grunts using an Assault Rifle and let your shield take the 
 brunt of the damage, while lauging evilly as your bullets cut them apart.
  
  The enemy weapons are interesting and varied, from the charge-up capable Plasma Pistol to the explosive 
 spike-throwing Needler. Covenant Plasma Grenades are like sticky bombs, except that you throw them 
 and they attach to organisms as well, not just vehicles.
  
  Enemies, too, are varied and interesting. You will be fighting enemies such as the puny, weak but 
 numerous "Flood Infection Forms" to the cowardly "Covenant Grunts" and the walking tank "Covenant 
 Hunter" which requires you to kill it via weakspot blasting.
  
  The sound is okay. But the music is astounding. The Halo theme song is one that is worthy of an 
 orchestra, and it certainly sounds like it's made by one. It is used for the game's large-scale 
 epic moments at the correct time, and the effect can be quite dramatic.
  
  The graphics are okay - Physics are fairly up to date, with weapons and NPCs flying around whenever 
 there's a boom to throw them. It's certainly up to standard for a 2001 game. Not as good as say 
 Max Payne 2s, but still acceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  This game is great. The story is great and once you're through with that you can go right onto 
 multiplayer online! Which is free for the PC version! It's fantastic! The online play is the key 
 of fun in this game. Every thing else will keep you entertained, but multiplayer is what will keep 
 you coming back for more.
  
  The graphics are great for a PC game. I love them and I'm sure anyone would. The sound track gets 
 a solid, well earned 10/10 because of it's uniqueness and legendary theme. There are some cool 
 ways to customize your spartans too for when you get to go online!
  
  Though the gameplay is the A+ feature of this game, everything else in this amazing title is done 
 right as well. I recommend this game to anyone who doesn't have an Xbox, loves Halo, and wants 
 to spend 20 dollars for a game which people used to pay 50 for. Highly recommended by me, and probably 
 anyone else. Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  ======= Why was Halo hyped ? =======
  
  Halo has a great story and some good missions but really, it's over-hyped. Especially for gamers 
 who have played PC games. For PC users, Halo will be easy to pick up, a shooter with multi-player 
 online support has been done many times. For people who seldom play on PC and lean more towards 
 home consoles, Halo was the first really embrace online features. This is probably why Halo has 
 become the phenomenon it has, it's gained a "special" place in console player's hearts and thus 
 many loyal fans of the series.
  
  ======= Overall Review =======
  
  Technically, Halo has great visuals and sound, great firefights with turrets and cool vehicles. 
 It's worth playing (mainly to see what the hype's about) but is far from doing anything revolutionary 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomtom_93
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. The storyline is fantastic, and graphics pristine for the year it was 
 made. The multiplayer section of the game gives it excellent replay value. With the addition of 
 the Halo custom edition program, the multiplayer just gets better. With more downloadable maps 
 and other content it adds up to a revolutionary multiplayer gaming experience. The only downside 
 is that the single player sometimes lags a lot when a several characters are in the area you are 
 in.
  
  Should be added to every pc gamers collection! It is great value for money and although its older 
 graphics and technology does not live up to some of todays more modern games, it is classic gaming 
 everyone should own, no matter what format.
  
  I have scored the difficulty just right because the game is not too hard, but challenging.
  
 
  I put the time spent playing score at over 100 hours because of the excellant replay value. For 
 the same reason i also classified it as highly addictive.
  
  SUPERB!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfouad
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Halo is an action packed game and is by far the best first person shooter I've played. Most fps 
 don't have that much of a story line, you just have to kill everything that moves and that's about 
 it, but in Halo, there's a whole story line, and missions to accomplish. Oh wait, okey.... everyone 
 already know how the game is. Now then, this is where the main changes to Halo have been made; 
 you finally get the chance to play the game over the internet. Now on the Xbox, multiplayer on 
 split-screen and over linked up Xboxes was great. One major omission has occurred in the port over 
 from the Xbox  there is no longer any cooperative play which was one of the best parts of the 
 multiplayer game on the console.
  
  As for what is new  we have six new maps, a few new weapons and a couple of new gameplay modes 
 such as changes in the Assault mode and the chance to fly the banshee. Like the Xbox version, you 
 can create your own games from scratch. The six new maps are pretty good too, the best one being 
 based on the Silent Cartographer level (which is the brilliant beach assault stages in the Single 
 Player mode) .
  
  The net code seems good too, although the problem with the frame-rate that crops up in the Single 
 Player mode too also shows its face in the multiplayer game, which is a disappointment when you 
 consider how much more advanced PC's are compared to the Xbox.
  
  If you wanna play one of the best games ONLINE. Go and get it on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilled_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  this game is many feature, variety of games to play, online ability, 10 campaign missions. This 
 game has a good graphics and a good variety of online games to play, there is no registration required 
 play to on-line. this game allow u to play, CTF (Capture The Flag) Slayer ( team or free for all) 
 oddball and many more. there are 10 campaign missions for you to play. each level is lengthy and 
 has frequent checkpoint so if u leave without saving, you'll reload to your last checkpoint. u 
 can pick a variety of different color for when playing online. there are many strong weapons. the 
 range of weapons are sniper rifles to fuel rods. you can interact with player across the whole 
 world, meeting different people and friends, there are over 20 online maps to choose from. there 
 are 6 playable vehicles online, ranging from tanks to banshees 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  HALO was a huge hit when it hit xBox but for completely different reasons than why a FPS is a hit. 
 The main reason why it became so popular and so over hyped was because it had the first great multiplayer 
 since Goldeneye for the n64. PC fps game already HAD great multiplayer but consoles.... that was 
 a different story. Sure HALO had some unique weapons but the story was a little jaded. Things got 
 explained along the way but not to well and that left the player feeling a bit like "why the hell 
 is this going on? What does it have to do with anything?" only to recieve a poor explaination later 
 on. By the time HALO reached the PC most had already played it through and several games had already 
 hit the PC that were superior and more fun. There really wasn't enough new stuff added to justify 
 the full price for the game and it should have been released on the PC with a discounted price. 
 
  
  The gameplay itself though is smooth with little to no bugs or flaws. Not much was changed from 
 the xBox version so there's really not much to comment on. Bottomline though: if you have never 
 played HALO and/or don't play many shooters, then it's a really good game and you should definitely 
 play it on the PC hands down! However, if you played it on xBox, then save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardock138
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I had first been introduced to Halo through Xbox at friends house and what not, but at the time 
 I had no idea it even existed for the PC.
  
  When I started getting into gaming about oh... 4 years ago... I had just picked up guild wars and 
 had seen Halo PC on the bargain shelf but thought nothing of it at the time, until a little later 
 that year I downloaded the demo and loved it. Bought the game the next day.
  
  This is an overall great game, not for the campaign which I don't find too special to be honest, 
 but for the great multiplayer.
  
  This game really got me into FPSs. My first ever clan was a halo clan and that opened me up to 
 CSS, BF2, etc etc. So this game is like my gateway drug into the world of gaming.
  
  Overall the game is pretty old, but it's really fun. So if you were like me and didn't have enough 
 money to buy a xbox at the time, then this is a great alternative considering it still has a vast 
 community of players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yogyiscool
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I install this game on my PC in the strong of the hypes that around this game when it first came 
 up for the XboX. Maybe it's a bit dated right now, but a game with lots of FUN factors in it, wont 
 be bothered about how old it has been.
  
  The FUN factors, yes. Things that will keep you excited to play the campaign mode of this game 
 over and over again. Say, the shoot outs. It's really fun to wipe the enemy hordes out with your 
 highly-rendered greatly-modeled and loud-sounding assault rifles. Leaving trail of corpses, blood 
 splatters all over the place and of course bullet holes on the walls are really amazing masterpiece 
 to look at. Since you can only have 2 weapons to carry, the other weapons such as shotgun, rocket 
 launcher, pistols and sniper rifles are also smartly available for you when in time you need them. 
 That mode works really well. Its rarely seen in other shooter games to date. It also proves that 
 not being able to carry 10 big guns with you will not reduce the enjoyment of your killing spree.
 
  
  But don't think killing your enemy will be made easy for you. Even with the easy difficulty, the 
 enemy a. i. will sometime outsmart you. They, really, really smart. They will try to always seek 
 cover from you, and suddenly they will appear from your flank. Oh, And also be prepared for their 
 grenades being thrown at you to force you out from your cover. 
  
  But you wont fight alone, in some moments. Your squad-mates will effectively back you up. Their 
 taunts and their yelling will also add the realistic atmosphere of a battle. 
  
  Also you wont be always fighting on foot. You can freely drive the amazing vehicles to help you 
 roam the vast battlefield of Halo. Your squad-mates once again effectively help you out by ridding 
 the gunner seat on your vehicles. All those fun factors, the enemy a. i the squad a. i will make 
 every winning from a battle, achieving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The original Xbox game released by Bungie, has been ported by Gearbox Software, developers of Brothers 
 in Arms, a popular World War 2 shooter. Microsoft Game Studios helped out in the effort, but is 
 this game really worth the buy?
  
  Game-Play: 9 out of 10
  
  It's exactly the same as the first Halo game, but you have a mouse and keyboard controls. If you 
 have an Xbox 360 controller, you can play with Xbox controls. One major feature any Halo fan would 
 buy this game is, the on-line Multi-player, yes Gearbox added a feature that the original didn't 
 have, although this is 2 years down the line. You have all the same maps that were in the original, 
 and all the same game-types, and its 16 players on one match over the internet, which makes for 
 16 player free-for-all, or 8 on each team which is the staple of on-line gaming. There are options 
 which you can swap around, but there aren't really a lot of things to change. 
  
  There is one problem with the on-line multi-player; you have to manually swap the game-type. What 
 this means is that the server host, hosts one game and when it ends, it starts over again and then 
 you change the map, and game-type. You would think that Gearbox would fix this, but Bungie fixed 
 it with Dedicated Server. A program using the console of the Halo PC making an automated map cycle, 
 so you don't have to do anything, and usually when the host leaves the game ends. Now with Dedicated 
 Server, you can leave your server and it will still be running when you get back to it. To track 
 servers, write down that Server IP, and you can automatically get to the server from the multi-player 
 menu. 
  
  The game-types are Slayer, Oddball, King, Capture the Flag, and Race, all of which were in the 
 first Halo, but I wish there were some new ones. There are 2 new weapons, the Flamethrower and 
 the Fuel Rod Gun, both exclusive to this game. Only the Fuel Rod Gun is a game changer of the two, 
 as the Flamethrower is a proximity weapon that can back-lash onto one self, probably resulting 
 in a suicide. Another feature of the multi-player is that you can fly the Banshee, the Covenant 
 air vehicle that was in the first Halo, but was not useable in the multi-player component. This 
 has created new strategies, and ways to get around. 
  
  If you wonder why you can't hit people in multi-player even if you are firing at them, the problem 
 is that Halo on the PC has a horrible Net Code, meaning you'll have to fire slightly in front of 
 the person you are firing at. That isn't much of a problem because it doesn't detract from the 
 fun. 
  
  A very annoying fact about multi-player is that most of the maps are Blood Gulch no shield with 
 Snipers which is annoyingly common. Another fact is that most Death Island maps are with rockets. 
 Death Island is a map where rockets can miss very easily. There isn't much originality any more.
 
  
  If you're looking for some new things to do, try using a map editor in the free custom edition 
 and making some custom maps. Also try joining some modded servers. As you expected in a PC game, 
 you can mod certain maps into your liking, like the POQ clan has done with their Blood Gulch maps. 
 
  
  The old weapons are all there, and there is the same kick-a** story that you'll play over and over 
 again! The only differences in the games, is that there are more glitches in this game than the 
 original one on the Xbox.
  
  Any ways, Halo on the PC should be bought by PC gamers who haven't experience the first Halo. Gearbox 
 hasn't done a lot to change the game, but that might be a good game, keeping the formula.
  
  Graphics: 8 out of 10
  
  Let's get this straight. The Graphics look nearly the same as 
 the original, only Master Chief, the Elites, Cortana, and the Grunts. That's about it. All the 
 other parts of the game look un-impressive. When you boot up Halo for the first time, Halo's texture 
 kind of shakes and looks and it looks like it vibrates. The grass looks nothing like the first 
 Halo's grass, and with 2 years of new technology on the PC, it should look better than the original. 
 Captain Keyes looks retarded compared to the original, and the Elites colours look different than 
 the ones in the original. I mean, green Elites replace the Gold one? What the bloody hell! Gearbox 
 should have really gotten their facts straight. 
  
  The new maps are just a treat, but considering the ones that are considerably liked the most are 
 from the original. Maps like that are Blood Gulch, Hang 'em High, Battle Creek, and Chiron TL 34. 
 One of most played Gearbox maps is Death Island, and one of the most hated is Infinity which is 
 completely horrible to play any game on.
  
  Sound: 9 out of 10
  
  The same old classic music from the original Halo, but the sounds of the weapons sound a bit warped, 
 but the vehicles are the same. The flamethrower sounds alright, and the Fuel-Rod gun sounds exactly 
 like the ones the Grunts used in the original Halo, which is exactly how it's supposed to sound.
 
  
  Value: 8 out of 10
  
  This game is of great value, as this game is now 19 dollars. The campaign, like the original will 
 keep you playing over and over again, and the multi-player is just a great addition to the game, 
 but there is it really enough for the players of the original Halo, who can just wait until Halo 
 2 to pass around? My advice say is just getting it for the multi-player and play it until Halo 
 2 blows around. It just isn't enough for past Halo players now. 
  
  Tilt: 10 out 10
  
  If you know me, I absolutely love Halo! A PC port with multi-player is just a treat for me. This 
 game opened up the Halo universe for me, as it was my first Halo game. I bought it for 19 dollars, 
 and I played it for more than it's worth. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str1keR-S1R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This almost perfect shooter will keep you dreaming about it at night. Although it is not as good 
 as the XBOX version, it is definitely worth it's buy. Before buying, just make sure you can run 
 it smoothly at high settings if you want a good experience with it. Let's see, grenades can be 
 thrown with your left hand while holding a weapon (plasma grenades stick to targets) ? - Very fun 
 to watch enemies fly from their blasts. Being able to melee enemies - very handy when low on ammo 
 or in tight corners. Being able to hold 2 weapons at a time? - very realistic and tasty. Very dangerous 
 enemies that can do anything you can do better? - Very challenging and fun. Rechargeable shields 
 that keep you focused on the battle and forcing you to scour corners for med packs? - Very strategic 
 and relieving. Weapons that have their own uses against specific enemies? - Very useful and selective. 
 
  
  So as you can see Halo has a lot of things going for it. It might not be as beautiful or as smooth 
 as the XBOX version but it is a definite success on the PC. My favourite thing about it was definitely 
 the variety of vehicles. The enemy is so smart that you will be taking cover yourself... it takes 
 a while to take down larger enemies. As I've mentioned you can operate a huge variety of vehicles, 
 but so can the enemy, making you react quickly and smartly. I say you should definitely get it 
 if you're a fan of science fiction first person shooters, or even horror games, as the game can 
 keep you on the edge of your seat at some points. There are also a few surprises (shocks?) that 
 make the storyline excellent. This highly addictive game is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jac5232
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Halo 1 is pretty solid but it's not the system seller it was hyped up to be. (and yes, 
 I've played the X-Box version as well so I can fairly state this) Enemy AI is pretty good, especially 
 when it comes to the Elites. They'll hide from you when trying to recharge their shields (which 
 operate just like yours) , smack you one if you get too close, and actually try to kill you while 
 saving their own hides. Almost as good as Half-Life's AI. However, that's really the only exceptional 
 part of Halo. The main character, Master Chief, is pretty generic. (course that goes for almost 
 every FPS hero these days but people seem to be hailing Master Chief as "the next big thing since 
 Doom Guy") As for vehicular combat, well Halo ain't the first FPS to do this. Really, the only 
 innovation is the recharging health/shield system. (in this case, shields)
  
  The core game-play, however, is solid. Again, not the next big thing since Doom or Half-Life but 
 it doesn't do anything really wrong. As previously mentioned, the AI is pretty solid. The weapon 
 balance is pretty decent, and sticking an Elite with a Covenant Grenade has that certain "Boo-yeah" 
 factor to it. As for multiplayer, well it hasn't aged that well and there's a lot of 'weird' servers 
 (rockets only, or no shields, and etc.) so unless you can find a good server (or if you prefer 
 the 'weird' ones as I call them) , I wouldn't bother with the game's online play.
  
  For 20 bucks, this is a decent buy. I pity those who bought a X-Box JUST for the X-Box version 
 of Halo though as it doesn't scream "system seller" to me. It's a solid FPS, worthy of your play 
 time, but that's it. It's not the Messiah of FPS's.
  
  7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm probably one of the few people on the planet who's managed not to play Halo all this time, 
 which is really too bad because even after all these years, the game holds up quite well. It's 
 more of an appreciation in hindsight, as Halo has obviously been eclipsed by modern shooters like 
 Call of Duty 4, Half-Life 2 and Crysis. Open-field battles, two-weapon fighting and regenerating 
 shields were really popularized here first and still make a great impression.
  
  The game world borrows a lot from action sci-fi like Aliens, but manages to establish a dramatic 
 mood with the fantastic score and fights that build up in momentum through levels. The game definitely 
 plays up your ego as NPCs continuously make comments to you like you're a savior and battles often 
 make you feel like you're coming to the rescue just in the nick of time.
  
  Unfortuantely I was only able to play about half the game before graphic problems kept me from 
 progressing. Game freezes on a game this old are pretty ridiculous ... FEAR had the same problem 
 with a certain point in the campaign just stopping you from progressing b/c the game would just 
 lock up at a specific location.
  
  I got the game used for dirt cheap, so not a huge loss, but just a warning if you're paying full 
 price for this -- maybe you'll be more patient and willing to try different graphic drivers to 
 get past the problem.
  
  I enjoyed what I saw and basically got my fill of Halo. Ah well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinchincredes1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  its an awsome game and has a better multiplayer than the xbox halo CE, you have lots of mods and 
 more people play halo in the pc than xbox i guess because of the better experience you get playing 
 it. The halo for pc has 6 more multiplayer maps than the halo for xbox and 2 weopons that were 
 not on halo for xbox. the fuel rod gun and the flamethrower. the flamethrower was on halo 3 and 
 halo for pc. The campaign has a little bit of changes to it but is still the best. halo 2 and 3 
 are better because of the graphics and the new weapons and the ability to duel wield weapons. so 
 i give HALO CE 9.5 its awsome for the P. C. because of all the mods you can use!!!! thats all i 
 have to say about that game! 
  
  thats all i have to say about that game! thats all i have to say about that game! thats all i have 
 to say about that game! thats all i have to say about that game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egess2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  This game has a good graphics and the game is created in 2001!
  Well the weapons are also good designed. The story... perfect.
  But the best thing maked in this 
 game is the musics!!!!!!!!!
  
  So if you're searching a good FPS game, you must buy this game! The artificial intelligence in Halo 
 has been favorably received. Enemies take cover and use suppressive fire and grenades. Some enemies 
 retreat when their superiors are killed. The player is often aided by United Nations Space Command 
 (UNSC) Marines, who offer ground support, such as manning gun turrets or riding shotgun while the 
 player is driving a vehicle.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: conflict_rules
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  well i gotta say halo was a great game , I think the best thing about this game is the weapons 
 you have a bunch of diffirent weapons and there all unique , I mean there all usefull every single 
 weapon is great in hes own way and thats awesome .
  
  the story is pretty nice for a fps its about the your on this ship and its get attacked by an alien 
 rase known as the covenant and you crash down on this halo thing which you wanna destroy . the 
 levels in the games have really awesome parts in out you know great epid outside battles whit vehicles 
 and stuff but when you'll get indoors the game gets so repative you'll spend like sometimes an 
 hour in the same building all the rooms look alike and you'll find yourself doing the same thing 
 over and over again , it just gets boring .
  
  the game is kinda split in 2 the first 5 levels and the last 5 levels in the first 5 you'll fight 
 whit your allies against the covenant and there really fun to fight but the other half the stupid 
 floot comes and man it sucks to fight them and by then almost all the humans on halo allmost dead 
 so its just you alone aginst the floot and also the covenant and thats not as fun .
  
  another great thing about this game is hes soundtrack , you know the famous halo theme is awesome 
 and it is in diffirent versions like a rock version , and the theme always start and the right 
 moments always when some awesome battle is coming .
  
  overall this is a great game and espacially the single player well only the single player , I think 
 the online multiplayer in halo sucks . and its a pretty long game wich is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scamisimran
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Yep, I said it and although this review may offend many hardcore Halo fans , I have to voice my 
 opinion of what was probably the worst FPS I have played since Daikatana (yeah remember that? That 
 was bloody awful) . Now before you all come knocking on my door with pitchforks and flames hear 
 me out as this bad review is not without reason.
  
  I first played Halo when it was released on PC not the Xbox so when I did finally sit down in front 
 of my PC, it felt like I was playing a game barely able to stand up next to the already competitive 
 market of great PC shooters. Halo felt dated, old and most of all it just wasn't fun. Comparing 
 this game to the likes of Half-Life and Quake III would be like comparing several kilos of gold 
 to a pile of sand. 
  
  First and foremost, the covenant were just the most ridiculous enemies I had ever faced in a game. 
 The opening level was pretty exciting at first but as soon as you catch a glimpse of the covenant 
 for the first time it was just such an anti-climax. They just didn't look like super cool aliens 
 that threatened the existence of humanity. In fact they were more suited to something like sesame 
 street. Especially the stupid noises the grunts made. 
  
  Secondly the level design. Yeah the outdoor levels were great at first but its not long until you 
 realize this is few and far between and most of the time you are stuck to corridor fighting. Hardly 
 revolutionary for a game many hail as the greatest FPS ever. And not just this, the way these indoor 
 levels were designed was just plain lazy. Seeing the same re-used bit of corridor again and again 
 and again, is not my idea of fun. 
  
  Probably the most annoying thing about Halo however, is the damn ******* flood. The most (and I 
 stress MOST) , frustratingly mindless, idiotic, stupid looking enemies I had ever seen. It was bad 
 enough that the game had the covenant... but the flood? Who the hell designed them?? A fight with 
 the flood was just basically the same thing time and time again. Repetition? You'd have to think 
 of a whole new word to describe the flood.
  
  I could go on but I want to keep this review short. For me Halo is more of a novelty game. I can't 
 take it seriously. I find it funny how people can get so worked up over it and hail it the best 
 FPS of all time, when its more like watching a really bad B-movie, with Jean Claude Van Damme playing 
 the lead. Maybe I am being too harsh, cause there were parts of Halo I did enjoy, but the repetition, 
 silly plot, and idiotic enemies were more than enough to make me want to see my very own Halo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: attila1975
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Well I`m not sure I have the required number of words to say about this game, but I had to express 
 my utter disappointment.
  
  Again, another FPS with a story that was written by a 12-year-old. The target audience? Maybe 9-year-olds 
 max. I can`t understand how adult reviewers can pretend like Halo has a great story. Helloo??? 
 Wakey wakey, come back to planet Earth, would you?
  
  I`m absolutely disgusted with developer`s continual efforts to give us cheap stories full of absolute 
 idiocy. Don`t these people have a life, and real life experiences?
  
  Why do so many game developers feel the need to try and create something Sci-Fi and ridiculous 
 every time they need a story for a video game? If you must use sci-fi, at least give some feeling 
 and personality to the characters, and make the quest very personal. Does Deus Ex ring a bell? 
 And more recently, Chronicles of Riddick?
  
  But honestly, you shouldn`t need Sci-Fi for a good FPS. There is plenty of opportunities for drama, 
 adventure and action on planet earth with real people, but you won`t know much about these if you 
 spend your life designing silly video games for mindless children.
  
  Ok well that`s the end of my rambling, Halo is just another stupid Sci-fi shooter, but the very 
 impersonal quest and soulless characters make it even worse that it had to be. Not to mention about 
 the ludicrous creatures that you have to fight against. Give me a break! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAlphaGamer
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  i love the gameplay setup its normal layout for an FPS. I really appreciated the fact that bungie 
 put a free demo on their website for the game. here is the link for the demo if you would like 
 it. if i recall the game got game of the year a few years back for XBOX. Microsof has always had 
 great games. and on the record in my opinion XBOX 360 is WAY better than PS3 I have both but i prefer 
 to play xbox 360 because of mostly the online game setup and i thought they could make a different 
 layout for it than the one for the psp. i mean cmon BE CREATIVE!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  http://www. gamershell. com/download_3784. shtml there are three download links for the game.
  for 
 people who would like a clan to join here is a website link. its a small clan because it is only 
 about 2 weeks old
  
  http://h4z4rd. webs. com/
  
  please take the time to check it out contact is on the website 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 10
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Halo: Combat Evolved is the first addition to one of the best series on Xbox and maybe even PC. 
 Known as one of the greatest games, but for 2003. It is now 2007 and we probably found way better 
 games than Halo: Combat Evolved. However, you can still have a blast and stick this game in the 
 top with the best... still today. Halo is actually the first Sci-Fi game that I really enjoyed. 
 It has a great gameplay were you can destroy thousands of well designed creatures and robots. You 
 can drive many vehicles such as a scorpion (tank) , a ghost (hovercraft) , and much more. You also 
 have many guns to choose from, such as, a assault rifle, rocket launcher, shotgun, plasma gun, 
 sniper rifle, and many more modern or futuristic weapons. The graphics are great, even for 2007, 
 with a amazing sky were you can see a full moon and millions of stars, from the characters to the 
 building. The sound is good and all, nothing amazing. Moving on to the multiplayer, were it used 
 to be great fun, but it isn't anymore. I don't even bother will the multiplayer because everyone 
 is supposedly very "talented." But there not, about half your opponents (16 players per room) have 
 auto-aim or other hacks. So if your getting Halo 1 for online, I highly recommend you don't. Overall, 
 Halo: Combat Evolved was one of the best games in 2003 but is still a great game today. The single 
 campaign is literally non-stop action. Your heart will be pumping when your surrounded by hundreds 
 of enemies when trying to reload your gun. The single player is still gold. If you want the most 
 out of this game play it on the normal or hard difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonPulse
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  halo combat evolved for the pc version gives the gamers who enjoy some serious online and at the 
 same time offline action on the pc more things to do such as use mods, use flamethrower, and just 
 a bit more but even though not much has changed the pc version definetly proves it can stand up 
 to even its 2nd and 1st game on the xbox proving that it is better. keep in mind not all sequels 
 beat their previous games like they are meant to. I myself love to switch back and forth between 
 mods and enjoy some serious editing in this game to make it a lot more fun and with all it has 
 to give i see no problems at all in it. the online play may have what players call lagg most of 
 the time if your internet is low speed and sucks but that wont take you away from installing yet 
 a mod that is for singleplayer and enjoy a very changed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Halo Combat Evolved is one of the best games ever to come out for any system. Anyways, in my X 
 Box review on this game I talk about the single player compain but, in this review I will talk 
 about the multiplayer online. Seriously, it is hands down, the best online game I have ever played 
 in the world, at any time, any were! If I added it up I probably played over one hundred hours 
 online with this game. Theres a wide verity of levels and so many things your can do to challenge 
 others online. I loved just playing and trying to get recruited into clans it stuff, it is very 
 fun and will keep you entertained for hours and hours and hours and hours. This game is such a 
 good game that leads to so many other first person shooters out there. Thank you Microsoft for 
 making such a ambitious game that will keep people talking for years. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS_Gamer123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The original Xbox game released by Bungie, has been ported by Gearbox Software, developers of Brothers 
 in Arms, a popular World War 2 shooter. Microsoft Game Studios helped out in the effort, but is 
 this game really worth the buy?
  
  Game-Play: 9 out of 10
  
  It's exactly the same as the first Halo game, but you have a mouse and keyboard controls. If you 
 have an Xbox 360 controller, you can play with Xbox controls. One major feature any Halo fan would 
 buy this game is, the on-line Multi-player, yes Gearbox added a feature that the original didn't 
 have, although this is 2 years down the line. You have all the same maps that were in the original, 
 and all the same game-types, and its 16 players on one match over the internet, which makes for 
 16 player free-for-all, or 8 on each team which is the staple of on-line gaming. There are options 
 which you can swap around, but there aren't really a lot of things to change. 
  
  There is one problem with the on-line multi-player; you have to manually swap the game-type. What 
 this means is that the server host, hosts one game and when it ends, it starts over again and then 
 you change the map, and game-type. You would think that Gearbox would fix this, but Bungie fixed 
 it with Dedicated Server. A program using the console of the Halo PC making an automated map cycle, 
 so you don't have to do anything, and usually when the host leaves the game ends. Now with Dedicated 
 Server, you can leave your server and it will still be running when you get back to it. To track 
 servers, write down that Server IP, and you can automatically get to the server from the multi-player 
 menu. 
  
  The game-types are Slayer, Oddball, King, Capture the Flag, and Race, all of which were in the 
 first Halo, but I wish there were some new ones. There are 2 new weapons, the Flamethrower and 
 the Fuel Rod Gun, both exclusive to this game. Only the Fuel Rod Gun is a game changer of the two, 
 as the Flamethrower is a proximity weapon that can back-lash onto one self, probably resulting 
 in a suicide. Another feature of the multi-player is that you can fly the Banshee, the Covenant 
 air vehicle that was in the first Halo, but was not useable in the multi-player component. This 
 has created new strategies, and ways to get around. 
  
  If you wonder why you can't hit people in multi-player even if you are firing at them, the problem 
 is that Halo on the PC has a horrible Net Code, meaning you'll have to fire slightly in front of 
 the person you are firing at. That isn't much of a problem because it doesn't detract from the 
 fun. 
  
  A very annoying fact about multi-player is that most of the maps are Blood Gulch no shield with 
 Snipers which is annoyingly common. Another fact is that most Death Island maps are with rockets. 
 Death Island is a map where rockets can miss very easily. There isn't much originality any more.
 
  
  If you're looking for some new things to do, try using a map editor in the free custom edition 
 and making some custom maps. Also try joining some modded servers. As you expected in a PC game, 
 you can mod certain maps into your liking, like the POQ clan has done with their Blood Gulch maps. 
 
  
  The old weapons are all there, and there is the same kick-a** story that you'll play over and over 
 again! The only differences in the games, is that there are more glitches in this game than the 
 original one on the Xbox.
  
  Any ways, Halo on the PC should be bought by PC gamers who haven't experience the first Halo. Gearbox 
 hasn't done a lot to change the game, but that might be a good game, keeping the formula.
  
  Graphics: 8 out of 10
  
  Let's get this straight. The Graphics look nearly the same as 
 the original, only Master Chief, the Elites, Cortana, and the Grunts. That's about it. All the 
 other parts of the game look un-impressive. When you boot up Halo for the first time, Halo's texture 
 kind of shakes and looks and it looks like it vibrates. The grass looks nothing like the first 
 Halo's grass, and with 2 years of new technology on the PC, it should look better than the original. 
 Captain Keyes looks retarded compared to the original, and the Elites colours look different than 
 the ones in the original. I mean, green Elites replace the Gold one? What the bloody hell! Gearbox 
 should have really gotten their facts straight. 
  
  The new maps are just a treat, but considering the ones that are considerably liked the most are 
 from the original. Maps like that are Blood Gulch, Hang 'em High, Battle Creek, and Chiron TL 34. 
 One of most played Gearbox maps is Death Island, and one of the most hated is Infinity which is 
 completely horrible to play any game on.
  
  Sound: 9 out of 10
  
  The same old classic music from the original Halo, but the sounds of the weapons sound a bit warped, 
 but the vehicles are the same. The flamethrower sounds alright, and the Fuel-Rod gun sounds exactly 
 like the ones the Grunts used in the original Halo, which is exactly how it's supposed to sound.
 
  
  Value: 8 out of 10
  
  This game is of great value, as this game is now 19 dollars. The campaign, like the original will 
 keep you playing over and over again, and the multi-player is just a great addition to the game, 
 but there is it really enough for the players of the original Halo, who can just wait until Halo 
 2 to pass around? My advice say is just getting it for the multi-player and play it until Halo 
 2 blows around. It just isn't enough for past Halo players now. 
  
  Tilt: 10 out 10
  
  If you know me, I absolutely love Halo! A PC port with multi-player is just a treat for me. This 
 game opened up the Halo universe for me, as it was my first Halo game. I bought it for 19 dollars, 
 and I played it for more than it's worth. 
  
  True Score: 9.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denter21
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  If anyone cannot understand my frustration with Halo, I suggest you take a look at The Escapist 
 online magazine and watch Yahtzee's critical review of Halo 3, as the problems are rampant in all 
 3.
  
  For this review I'll stick with Halo: Combat Evolved for the PC though.
  
  First off, I absolutely loathe those small alien creatures. They are completely ridiculous. What 
 age range was this game geared towards again? Fine. Whatever. I can deal. As long as the shooting 
 is good right? Wrong. 
  
  Framerates dogged for absolutely no reason, levels were dull, repetitive and basically just uninspired 
 altogether.
  
  I did enjoy driving the vehicles though, they were pretty cool, but really it's nothing unreal 
 tournament 2003 didn't do a heck of a lot better.
  
  I'm not sure whether it's the general lack of FPS games for the XBOX that makes people think this 
 is to be considered a crowning achievement in gaming history, but it's certainly nothing new in 
 terms of PC gaming, and that makes the port stick out like a sore thumb.
  
  Ok great Bungie, your game did well in the FPS starved console market. But it just doesn't cut 
 it here. Take a few hints from Half Life, AVP2, Deus Ex, System Shock... etc. If you're gonna roll 
 with the big boys in the PC market you had better bring your A-game (and I hope for your sake this 
 was not it...) .
  
  Overall, it didn't kill me or cause me any sort of bodily harm whatsoever... plus some of the sections 
 were borderline enjoyable at times, but by no means comparable to other PC greats. 
  
  6.5/10 for an okay game... in the same sense of the word that my 65 in physics still counts as 
 "passing". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medevil_blader
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This is the one that started this masterpiece video game series.....
  
  Well I guess Ill start with the game play. The controls for the PC version are pretty good, and 
 a standard for PCs. You use the mouse for shooting and grenades, and the keyboard for other things, 
 like the spacebar for jumping and g to change grenades. I've had multiple moments just fooling 
 around in the game having fun. Saying the game play in Halo is enjoyable is an understatement, 
 its more than that. Defeating tough foes like the hunters makes for a good challenge, and you feel 
 pretty good after having thoroughly beaten them to a pulp. The multiplayer is fairly well done 
 for the PC; it gives you a list of servers you can play on along with what map its on, how many 
 players there are, the game type, and etc. I find that this set up for the multiplayer is good; 
 you can choose what types of games appear in the list, from what maps, to what servers only have 
 certain game types.
  
  The graphics for the PC are pretty much what we saw in the Xbox version; even with a higher end 
 PC it doesn't really seem much better. There isn't much more to say other than that, I really can't 
 find any differences.
  
  The sounds for Halo are great at most times, when you're driving a warthog on grass and dirt it 
 sounds like it should, making its sound for kicking up dirt, and the same goes for on more solid 
 surfaces and water. The sounds of the guns being fired are pretty varied, but they do repeat nonetheless. 
 Even though they can get repetitive, you'll barely notice at all while you're playing, or maybe 
 not even at all.
  
  There are some weird and funny glitches and such throughout Halo that can make the game even more 
 interesting and fun to play. There are only two things that have been brought to my attention as 
 being at least semi-worth mentioning. First is in the last level, The Maw, there is a grunt that 
 supposedly says a funny line; I myself haven't found him yet. Second; and last, is the scene with 
 Johnson standing outside the Pillar of Autumn with an Elite, and well everybody whose played the 
 game already knows. (No spoilers for those who haven't!)
  
  The requirements would be 733 MHz processor, 128 MB RAM, 32 MB video card, and 1.2 GB free hard 
 drive space. So basically, a PC that has been purchased within the past two years should suffice 
 to play this game fairly well, though it does have some lag problems.
  
  The release price was $49.99 U. S. for the original Xbox version, so about $20 U. S. right now for 
 this version is worth it. 
  
  Well what is there to say? It's a good game, even seven years after its release. It may not be 
 up to par with some of the newer more fast paced shooters that have been coming out, PC multiplayer 
 is still thriving with Halo 1, there are probably hundreds, if not thousands or more playing online 
 per day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uberman2321
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  The overall game is great but sometimes in the game in multiplayer if your ping reaches around 
 68 to anyother you are in serious trouble . The bullet lag in this game is only good for LAN or 
 a game with a ping of around 30. I garentee you: you will LAG in 1 out of 4 games played. The maps 
 in this game are fun but most people like to play with rocket launchers, you wont see any game 
 with weapons setting of the pistol-AR. The campain is great but pretty short.
  
  If you want htere is a custom edition of halo were you will find PURE custom maps (not modded) 
 with a pure custom weapons that were made from one person from scrach or from tags.
  
  In anyway possible This game is still pretty fun. 
  
  This game contains possiblilities of 
 a server closing and loss of a connection and a ip adress negatiation falure. I like this game 
 for its graphics and its scenery. any computer could handle this game with the high color and high 
 clean picture that shows, your apple computer wont work for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thematrix101
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Halo is hard to describe since It sooo awesome and the graphics so smooth and I'm gonna get Halo 
 very soon and see for myself if the whole game is worthy like the my peeps at school say It is.
 
  
  Halo is a very real good looking game with realisic blood and gore but make sure to play this first 
 to under stand Halo 2 and 3.
  
  Oh dang it the great graphics and physics ( But not as good as Super Mario Galaxy.) and the game 
 feel so real with a controller because the rumbling for it make you feel like your on the battle 
 field be cause say for some reason you were acting like a noob and then get shot (I don't know 
 why people do this in games.) you can feel the rumble and when your riding a Worthhog the rumble 
 is also activated because in a bump road rumbling happens right?
  
  Now yea games like these can make me give a 10 east but really if I played Dora and Barney games 
 I woud rate them all a 0 because this game is for people who is made such greatness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Many people regard Halo as the savior of Xbox, which didn't have a lot of games worth mentioning 
 at the time of its launch. Halo helped Xbox compete with Sony's PlayStation 2. It was released 
 on PC two years later, in 2003.
  
  I have only just finished Halo, and I can see why the game is as famous as it is on console.
 
  
  First let me talk about the game, which is set in the 26th century. You play as Master Chief, a 
 cybernetically enhanced human solider, equipped with regenerating battle shield and accompanied 
 by an AI program known as Cortana.
  
  There is a battle raging between the inhabitants of Earth and an alien race known as the Covenant. 
 During this battle, the space ship containing the Master Chief travels to unknown and random coordinates 
 selected by Cortana and they find a ring shaped planet called Halo and they are forced to land 
 on it to escape the Covenant. This is where it all beings, and Master Chief will soon learn the 
 secret of Halo.
  
  I have never played on console, but I know a good port when I see one. Halo is among the very best, 
 it works flawlessly on PC. The controls are like your standard FPS game, and they handle perfectly. 
 The Mouse/Keyboard combination handles very intuitively, and I never faced any problem with the 
 controls.
  
  The graphics are a lot better than the Xbox version I am told. Judging the game by itself, the 
 graphics are brilliant. I was amazed at the lush scenery and the water effects in the outdoor levels. 
 Everything is polished till it gleams; the bump mapping effects see to that. Some of the levels 
 are a sight to see, the Silent Cartographer level comes to my mind; very beautiful.
  
  Halo is one of the first games to feature vehicles that can be driven by the player, and believe 
 me you are going to do a lot of driving in the game. There are a lot of levels in the game which 
 require you to drive around, and it's a lot of fun. Its not only land vehicles, but the game gives 
 you a chance to fly one of the Covenant's aircraft (Banshee) as well, I loved flying those. 
  
  The levels with vehicles are very lively and trigger happy gamers are going to enjoy those 
 immensely and fortunately all the vehicles handle quite well for most part. There will be an odd 
 occasion when they don't, but that isn't a problem at all.
  
  Coming to audio, I first have to mention the soundtrack. I think its one of the very best in video 
 games. Martin O'Donnell has done a brilliant job with the music; it made the experience so much 
 better.
  
  But all is not well with the game, there are a few nagging issues that blight the experience.
 
  
  The level design in the game can be extremely repetitive, and this is very annoying. For a game 
 which has set such high standards, to employ this sort of dubious ways to prolong gameplay is quite 
 unbecoming of them in my opinion.
  
  Few hours into the game, you have this feeling that you have been going through the same rooms, 
 killing the same monsters over and over, and yet you are not making any perceptible progress. This 
 can be very annoying and it made me stop playing for a while because I got really tired.
  
  The audio can be a little erratic at times. The gun fire is suddenly muted during battle; dialogue 
 is lost when a cut scene is playing, and other such irritating glitches. It will not affect your 
 gameplay too much, but it is annoying.
  
  All in all, despite the problems, playing Halo has been a great experience. It does give you the 
 feeling of being a part of something truly epic.
  
  Some games have this quality about them, they are destined for greatness. In spite of the problems 
 Halo is one of those games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrasher91604
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this one ... up to point. Many of the levels were way too repetitive. Some had 
 constantly respawning enemies, that wouldn't stop until you crossed a magical invisible line. This 
 was way too tedious.
  
  And worst of all, is the console based checkpoint save system. You can't save anywhere, only the 
 last checkpoint. Makes for more tedium and repetitive play.
  
  But figuring out what weapons to use against which enemies, and having to manage your limited weapon 
 carrying choices made for some fun tactics. But backtracking to swap weapons or pick up ammo also 
 became tedious.
  
  The story was cliche, but the setting was cool (even if the levels were repetitive) . The music 
 was OK.
  
  The friendly AI was for the most part horrible. Companion marines were almost completely worthless 
 (terrible shooting, cover, and dodging skills) . The enemy AI was much better. They were smart enough 
 to use cover, and dodge grenades.
  
  There's much better shooters out there, but this can still be fun in small doses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriousminds
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, your one sad.. sad person. You have a 2004 model Compaq computer which lacks the pentagon pounding 
 performance of a shiny new GTX encased in the battle hardened steel of a Antec beast, because your 
 not really an enthusiast or anything. Your limited to the most basic functions of a computer, which 
 you use to trawl the same websites over and over again as if something big and exciting will be 
 there next time, but it never is. Most of the time spent at your computer is on msn or writing 
 up assignments in Microsoft works 8.5. Your idea of heart-pounding action is beating your own minesweeper 
 high score or drawing stick figures in paint.
  
  What you want is a cheap, relatively old pc game at the lowest price just to go to ease the boredom 
 every so often! So what you do, is you pass by EB games, negotiate your way through the hordes 
 of four eyed nerds clambering for the nearest RTS or salivating over the newest edition of "PC 
 powerplay" ( yes.. my freind gets it -.-' ) and make your way to the corner of the pc section where 
 all the outdated 4 year old games are. The only reason you don't pick up half life 2 is cause your 
 a freaking idiot who remembers playing halo on your friends xbox sometimes and is oblivious to 
 the fact that PORTS SUCK ICYPOLE!
  
  so thats the story of how i came to own halo: combat evolved for the pc. on to the review!
  
 
  Well everyone knows what halo was like on xbox, "revolutionary" you could say. The halo series 
 is Microsoft's moses in a way, lead by bungie to guide the small, pathetic Israelites through the 
 crushing walls of water which is playstation dominance. So yes, it was good on xbox, very good 
 in my opinion and most of the good things about the xbox game have made it to the PC, hence the 
 8.5. But what counts here is why it was to **** to get a 9.7 like gamespot gave the original xbox 
 game.
  
  One of the things that fails the whole halo series is level design. As the series has gone on though, 
 it has got better due to the fact that after they realised that several million fools had bought 
 each game, bungie hired about 300 more geeks to slave away at computers so as not to upset these 
 people. Think the movie "300" except the Spartans are a quivering bunch of software praising wimps 
 and the Persians have 10 times the numbers and consist of massive robot people wielding biological 
 weapons on every skyscraper-sized limb. Thats about the destruction you would have if halo's sequels 
 turned out to be an even more bland ****-o-rama.
  
  However, this is halo 1 we are talking about , before they had all the scrawny little game designer 
 pricks and a generic brand budget. The level design is absolutely abysmal! I'm not talking like, 
 all the rooms and corridors look the same, i mean they ARE the same, over and over again! They 
 are so damn lazy that they made the story so that they only had to design about 3 areas worth out 
 of something like 11 levels of play!
  Seriously, I had to run out of the piller of autumn, run into the pillar of autumn, run out of the 
 pillar of autumn 3 times. I had to go through the snow level, come out of the snow level, go into 
 the snow level and come out again 4 times. Truth and reconciliation: 5 times. The swamp place: 
 2 times. The flood place:2 times. The library: 2 times. the silent cartographer level included 8 
 times of running in and out of a whole place. thats what about 12 hours is taken up with, running 
 in and running out of levels over and over and over. Its pathetic. The people at bloody "planet 
 ark" would be appalled at the amount of recycling going on here!
  
  Now, to the frame rates.
  Ok so this computers hardware includes: 2.0ghz athlon XP
  nVidia 
 GeForce 5200 FX
  256mb RAM.
  
  guess what frame rates i get on full settings?... 3fps
  This port is so bad that i have to dumb the settings down to medium-high effects at 800x600 just 
 to squeezed 12 fps out of it, and i don't mean a smooth 12, i mean they are schizophrenic. That 
 is with TRIPLE the recommended specs. Absolutely terrible.
  
  Speaking of schizophrenic, so is the difficulty. In most parts its easy as all hell, in others 
 you might be stuck in the same place for ages without even getting close to the next checkpoint, 
 while all your cool AI marines are dieing and it becomes a frustrating boredom fest where you only 
 friend in a sea of little aliens is the occasional moment of silence where your shield warning 
 isn't blaring for all its worth.
  
  The only real redeeming factor is the multiplayer. if it wasn't for the online multiplayer i would 
 give this game 6.5 so if you don't have broadband forget it. Now the xbox game didn't actually 
 have online multiplayer, so it is quite a bonus here. It uses that crappy game spy arcade system 
 so the system isn't exactly flawless and the i don't fancy the lobby, but it does the job alright.
 
  
  It doesn't feel quite suited for a computer game, but it is certainly better. the maps are very 
 good and so is the overall play, but the only map you'll really want to use will probably be blood 
 gulch - capture the flag style. Unfortunately, the actual players are complete pricks, which i 
 guess you could also expect from a halo game. you can divide them into several catagories:
  
  Hackers:
  you wouldn't believe how many people use so called "aim bots" and "sight jackers" 
 on this game. At least half the people who play are using them depending on which server your at 
 and you can guarantee' no matter how good you are some hacking wang is going to come and ruin it 
 for everyone cause they are so bloody sad that they have to use an aim bot thingo to play a 4 year 
 old computer game online.
  
  Losers:
  there are several subcategories which i could name but this has gone on long enough so ill just 
 wrap it up a bit. There's some people that just think they are completely better than everyone 
 and are so arrogant that they chat themselves up the whole bloody time and when the games over 
 say something like "good game everyone who got above 5th place".
  Then theres the people who cant take that they got killed like one time so they have to have to 
 shed a tear and try and insult people by calling them "noobs". One group i find quite funny is 
 the ones that try to prove they are better than everyone by getting into an argument or chatting 
 themselves up, then attempting to seem articulate and intelligent by using "big words" which they 
 clearly don't now the exact meaning of, therefore using them in completely the wrong place and 
 looking like one major fool. People who like to argue over the internet:
  You can almost guarantee that these people are either 10 years old and about to get told by their 
 mum to clean their room or are in their 30's and living in the aforementioned mum's basement. These 
 people could also fit into the category of losers but this is more specific.
  
  Nice people who mind their own business and play but also make it fun:
  There are actually quite 
 a few of them but this group is unfortunately overshadowed by the ones mentioned above. Its really 
 all about which server you are on and finding one you like then sticking to it. Occasionally it 
 will be flooded by idiots but thats ok, it almost always goes back to normal the next time you 
 play.
  
  So all in all, if you can put up with all these things then yes, Halo: combat evolved for the pc 
 is a good game. Just please don't buy it for anything but the great multiplayer. The alternative 
 for single player is half life 2. * So called best pc game ever, crappy port, best pc game... crappy 
 port. I choose..* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DI_666
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I got Halo: Combat Evolved as part of a bundle of free games that came with my sound card. 
 I had played it for short periods of time before at various places and houses for the Xbox, and 
 I thought it was okay. That was probably because I was only playing it for short periods of time. 
 Actually owning it and beating it, I realize that this game is not as fun as I thought it was. 
 In fact, it was MUCH worse...
  
  I don't really know why people love this game. It is one of the most repetitive, overrated, and 
 boring FPS titles I've ever played. The only reason I kept playing was to see the ending, which 
 totally was not worth it. I also kept playing as I can only review a game I have beaten. In any 
 case, the only thing I'm glad about is that I got the game for free, because in my opinion, even 
 Doom III was more worth the $20.00 than this s*** kicker.
  
  The story is absolutely stupid no matter how you cut it. Bungie clearly tried to mimic famous sci 
 fi movies with it's cheesy plot, and appropriately came out very stupid. Earth forces are at war 
 with the Covenant, an alien force which is far superior to them (if the friendly AI says anything) . 
 They just so happen to come across a gigantic ring world as they are running from the Covenant 
 . They then wake up a cyborg, the very stupidly-named "Master Chief" (you can tell the developers 
 were up all night trying to figure out a name) , who is far superior to the soldiers in the ways 
 of strength, knowledge, and strategy (once again, if the friendly AI says anything) . They crash 
 land on the ring, and then must fight off the Covenant armada, and find out the secrets of the 
 ring world.
  
  Now, cheesy plotline aside, you probably noticed my comments about the friendly AI in Halo. The 
 AI in Halo 1 is one of the most broken AI systems I've ever seen in any FPS title I've played. 
 One of the strongest examples of this is in the fact that friendly NPC's drive with the ability 
 somewhere between Billy Joel after a gallon of moonshine, and a retarded hamster. I hear people 
 say "well they have really improved the AI now in Halo 2 and 3". Well that's great, but it doesn't 
 redeem the fact that the AI in the first game is about as intelligent as a drunken special ed. 
 student. Your teammates can never hit s***, they will run right into enemy gunfire; and yet they 
 won't hesitate to be annoying a****** if they DO happen to kill an enemy, saying stupid s*** like 
 "Get up so I can kill you again." It's supposed to be comic relief I'm guessing, the problem is 
 that it's not even funny, it's just stupid and annoying. 
  
  When I said your teammates couldn't shoot for s****, that was a bit misleading. Lots of FPS titles 
 have stupid NPCs who can't hit s***; the AI of this game is even worse than that. When I played 
 through the entire game once, I never saw my teammates get even one kill... unless of course you 
 count one teammate running over another one a kill. It's bad enough that most of the Earth weapons 
 have little to no accuracy (unless you count the pistol, which is only good against grunts anyways) , 
 but it's even worse when your own guys couldn't hit the broad side of Chris Farley. I also had 
 my suspicions that the enemy had been smoking pot, as they had a tendency to just stand there while 
 I shot clips of ammo up their a****.
  
  The AI wasn't the only bone I had to pick with this travesty either. The only thing I hated more 
 than the AI was the repetitive, dull, poorly rendered levels. The only level I liked was The Pillar 
 of Autumn, and that's because it was short, and a bit varied. Every level is way too long, way 
 too predictable, and most irritably, way too repetitive. Here are some examples...
  
  Halo (Outdoors) : wide open area-wide open area-wide open area
  Halo (Indoors) : Circular  
 room-tunnel-bridge
  The Truth and Reconciliation: tunnel-big room-tunnel-big room
  Index Building: Tunnel after tunnel after tunnel after tunnel after etc.
  
  Every single level 
 is just an alternation of up to three types of areas. That or it's just one type of area throughout 
 the whole level. There is no redeeming feeling in fighting across a bridge, then fighting through 
 a circular room, then having to do it all over again.
  
  The levels aren't the only thing that is painfully repetitive though. The enemies in this game 
 are so boring and stupid that I found myself wishing I had Alzheimer's. Then at least the fights 
 would seem new and fresh each time. You will literally be sticking to one strategy throughout the 
 entirety of the game, since almost all enemies follow the same three patterns.
  
  1. The enemy just runs at you (The Flood & Hunters)
  2. They get close and shoot you, since they 
 couldn't hit you at a distance with a tactical f******nuclear weapon (Grunts and small enemies)
 
  3. They run for the nearest vehicle/turret, only to not hit you with that either.
  
  Another incredibly annoying part of this game is the weapons. I mentioned the inexcusable inaccuracy 
 of the Earth weapons earlier. The Earth weapons are the pistol, assault rifle, shogun, sniper rifle, 
 rocket launcher, and frag grenades. The pistol is almost useless, since although it is powerful 
 and accurate, it fires slow and doesn't carry hardly any bullets, so unless you are going against 
 grunts (in which case even a melee attack is more useful) , you should just throw this away as soon 
 as you possibly can. 
  
  The assault rifle is the Earth weapon that pisses me off the most. It isn't powerful, accurate, 
 or useful for anything other than rifle butting, although most of the time you will be too busy 
 doing real damage with other weapons to try to rifle butt someone. The only time you will ever 
 really want this gun is when you go against The Flood, in which case you use the "Spray n' Pray" 
 method anyways. 
  
  The shotgun is the most inaccurate gun in the game, and as such is almost completely useless unless 
 the enemy is close enough to smell your breath. It is only good against the Flood, and that is 
 only because they are weak and attack in large groups. It is slow to fire, slow to reload, horrifyingly 
 inaccurate, and the melee attack goes at half the speed of smell. 
  
  The sniper rifle is the only weapon I find moderately acceptable. Of course, my standards had to 
 be lowered significantly for this little f******* of a game. It fires very slow for a semi-automatic 
 rifle, and even the amazing damage of the shots doesn't make up for the little p**** ant clip you 
 get that can only hold four shots. It is also stupid how the game tells you to reload after just 
 two shots. 
  
  The rocket launcher is amazingly useless in normal combat (unless you are suicidal) . The only time 
 it is practical to use is against Hunters (which doesn't happen very often) , and Banshees (which 
 in most cases you won't even have a rocket launcher) . It fires slow, the rocket travels amazingly 
 slow (trying to hit a banshee is extremely frustrating unless it is diving straight at you) , the 
 melee attack is 100% useless, and the reload takes a g****** century. 
  
  The frag grenades are incredibly frustrating, as an enemy will usually have enough time to get 
 away from it before it goes off.
  
  With this line of thinking, you would naturally go for a Covenant weapon instead. Unfortunately, 
 only two of the weapons are worth using anyways. 
  
  The Covenant weapons are the plasma rifle and pistol, the needler, and plasma grenades. The plasma 
 rifle and pistol are the only weapons worth using for any extended period of time. That does not 
 mean, however, that they don't both suck. Do they have better auto-aim and damage? Yes. But you 
 cannot reload them, and they can actually overheat quite easily, making you wait for them to cool 
 down while an elite is raping you up the a**. 
  
  The needler is probably one of the coolest-looking weapons in the game. Sadly, it's pretty much 
 pointless. It takes almost half a damn clip to take down an enemy, if not more. Plus, some enemies 
 are able to easily deflect the needles. The melee attacks looks totally f****** sweet, but there's 
 no point in using it in battle.
  
  The vehicles are actually surprisingly fun to drive... on the occasion that you don't crash it into 
 a f****** wall. The driving controls (at least for the PC) are way too touchy. I had to retry the 
 last level over and over again because I couldn't keep the car going straight. The banshees are 
 clumsy and slow, not to mention the fact that the plasma gun onboard the banshee is slow and weak. 
 The ghost is fast, but very weak in terms of health and power. The warthog is not very responsive, 
 and can barely take a jump without rolling over, and although the mounted MG is powerful, you'll 
 be hard pressed to find a gunner that can hit something smaller than Sherman f****** Klump. The 
 tank is a good transport vehicle, being able to have 4 soldiers sit on it's sides. The problem 
 is, you can easily wipe most of them out with just a misplaced tank round.
  
  Another thing that pisses me off is the recharging shields. The premise in itself is pretty good, 
 "Hey, lets make the main character have to take cover so his shields recharge" sounds like a good 
 premise. The execution, however, fails terribly. The first thing is that your shields take way 
 too long to recharge. I spent more time taking cover, waiting for my shield to recharge than I 
 spent actually fighting. The other thing is how little actual health you have once you lose your 
 shield. You keep hearing about how much of a b***** Master Chief is, but when he loses his shields 
 he turns into the ultimate f****** pussy, and you could trip the fucker and kill him. Gordan Freeman 
 could kick his a** any day. Bungie makes players pray that the shield survives the next corner, 
 because if it doesn't they are f*****.
  
  Last but not least, the online play. Now nowadays you won't find many people playing the original 
 Halo, but I'm guessing it was full of a******* back then too. The multiplayer feels so d*** standard 
 it's sickening. It's pretty much just a bare bones minimum of online play, pure and simple. Plus 
 you have to put up with the numerous a******* who play Halo, which are high in number.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC-Daniel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Halo: CE for PC is overall an excellent game, with an amazing and original story, great game play, 
 great graphics for it's time, and a host of other amazing qualities that make this a must have 
 game for any gamer. The fact that it was released on PC makes it available to many more people 
 who don't have an X-Box. 
  
  The game play in Halo is frankly amazing. I personally love the life, shields and ammo system, 
 as it is easy to quickly glance at it and know whether to hide, continue shooting, reload or change 
 weapons. The tracking system in Halo could be viewed differently though, as some might think it 
 makes the game easier or too easy, but I think it only enhances the game play and makes it more 
 enjoyable. 
  
  The enemies in Halo have some good AI, but some are a bit lacking. The hunters for example, only 
 have two main attacks, an energy blast and hitting you with a shield. Although some things make 
 up for that, like the huge amount of damage they do when they make contact with the character, 
 or the fact they are only killable in their back and neck, they could use a little work, like incorporating 
 strategies in their attacks. Since Hunters always travel in pairs, they could use that to their 
 advantage, instead of acting as two individuals. Others enemies in Halo though, are expertly programmed, 
 and are fun to shoot full of lead! Grunts especially, as they scream and run away when you shoot 
 them. That always gives me a laugh!
  
  Halo's weapon choice contains both the usual and some different types. You have the normal pistol, 
 machine gun, shotgun, rocket launcher and sniper rifle. There is also a burst machine gun called 
 a battle rifle, which I quite like. The covenant weapons in the game are all laser/plasma based, 
 and some, like the plasma rifle, are a bit generic, but things like the overcharge effect of the 
 plasma pistol and the arc trajectory of the fuel rod gun are more exotic weaponry types. All in 
 all, when you fire a bullet into a covenant skull, or another player's helmet in multiplayer, you 
 get a fuzzy warm feeling in your heart. At least I do. 
  
  The multiplayer in Halo is just plain awesome. You would think that even after a couple years, 
 and both Halo 2 and Halo 3 coming out, people do still play Halo's multiplayer. A normal game of 
 multiplayer in Halo is really fun, with natural sniping posts and vehicles and such, but the real 
 fun comes when you mod the game. When modded, you can have extra teleport to a sniping post that 
 is inaccessible normally or even create your own map and weapons, and then get everyone to play 
 it.
  
  All in all, Halo: Combat Evolved for the PC is a great game, with lots of pros and only a couple 
 cons. I know I didn't cover all I could have in this review, but I think I did a good enough job 
 of informing you that you should buy this game. Even the price is amazing, 9.99 on Amazon. com! 
 
  
  I pity the fool who doesn't own Halo: Combat Evolved!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelukey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, it is frickin awesome! Its the best first person shooter on PC. I might say 
 the second one is but its for Vista, which is a load of crap. But this game doesn't leave anything 
 to be desired, you can shoot or beat up aliens (and marines) , you can blow stuff up, you can blow 
 people up, not much to not like about this truly awesome game. I would get the second if was cheaper 
 and not for Vista, and I hope they come out with Halo 3 on the computer. You can drive tanks and 
 alien machines to mow down ranks of Covenant or you can run throwing grenades and shooting lke 
 a wild man. Either way its fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeftyJoeF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The original halo is still my favorite FPS to date (haven't tried Crysis yet though) . Great action, 
 smooth gameplay, and a great original story combine to create a great game that gives you a sense 
 of being a hero. Master Chief has become an American icon that continues to push all other FPS 
 to the test. Looking forward to playing the 2nd (whenever Microsoft lowers the price) and 3rd (if 
 they ever put out a PC version) installments of the series! Would have liked a bit longer of a 
 campaign, but a minor quarrel that does little to drop the value of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Halo was an awesome shooter on the Xbox and now it is on the Pc. Halo on the Pc is a great shooter, 
 and now it has an online multi player.
  
  Halo for the Pc still has the great single player, but there is no co-op play, but to make up for 
 it you have an online multi player. The online multi player is really fun, and you will get into 
 a bunch of intense battles. There have been two new weapons added to multi player. The freeze cannon 
 and a flame thrower. The new weapons are pretty cool.
  
  The graphics have been updated a little so they look better than the xbox version, but they do 
 not look really good. Some of the character models look messed up. The things that have been updated 
 on the pc version are the weapon models and the environments a little bit.
  
  If you want a fun multi player game then you should play Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  As a teenager, I had grown up playing video games but never really gotten into them. For a 2 or 
 3 years, there was hype about the series but it was something I had never indulged myself in. A 
 year ago I picked up the game for the first time and beat it on normal in 15 hours. Groundbreaking, 
 no. But for me, it was life shattering. The game instantly got me into other things. Halo was a 
 ground breaking game when it first came out for the gaming industry. Retelling it's history is 
 pointless. But what it isn't known for is a good game for beggining gamers. It's controls are easy 
 to understand and the gameplay is addicting. Even the story line isn't that bad. Easing you into 
 the universe, the game creates awesome game play areas that are impressive to anyone. The ability 
 to select and choose weapons is something I find better done then in most games. There are combinations 
 that are for people who prefer to hang back, or barge in with guns blazing taking no prisoners. 
 The ability to quietly slip by a fight to regain health with a few melee blows was astounding. 
 From having to worry about what level Pikachu is on to now destroying whole armadas of alien races, 
 Halo is astounding. Halo offers a good starting first-person shooter because of the way the guns 
 handle. In Halo, a shot gun will blow close range enemies away with awesome power. Even in todays 
 top games like Bio Shock, in later levels the shot gun feels like a weak peice of metal in your 
 hands. The pistol and sniper rifle are fine to play with, but for anyone who wants to get down 
 and dirty, the assualt rifle is the altimuate weapon. And for the ultimate thrill, the ability 
 to take a rocket launcher and take aliens out of existance. Even more fun for me were the covenant 
 weapons. The plasma rifle was fun, but the homing in ability and how powered blasts of a fully 
 charged plasma pistol give me a thrill. Even better is the needler which allows you to shoot arrow/crystal 
 looking ammuntion at enemies and watch them die in a pink explosion. The one draw back of the weapons 
 is not to be able to pick up the covenant's plasma versions of the rocket launcher. After experiencing 
 the ability to pick and choose my weapons in early levels, the let down in one of the later levels 
 was a bit of a shock. Another great item of the halo games is the vehicles. Everything from ghosts, 
 which are hovering vehicle with large guns, to scorpion, a large tank with missles and machine 
 gun, to the banshee in later levels which allowed you to fly through the air attacking everything 
 in your path. But the unimous vote goes to the warthog, which in theory is just a dune bugy with 
 turret, it sounds like it would need to be a bit more. But in reality, the warthog is a blast to 
 drive with more kick then some of the other vehicles. Even the ground mounted plasma tourettes 
 are fun to blow enemies away with. My chief issue with the vehicles was not being able to access 
 all of them. What would have been especially fun to do in this game would be able to grab the wraith 
 towards the end of assualt on the control room and shell the pyrramid. It also would have been 
 nicer to have the ability to have larger level maps to fly the banshee on. They were a fun thrill, 
 but the small amount of gameplay actually spent on them seemed like a bummer, especially since 
 their only real purpose was to ferry you back and forth from halo's pulse generators. Down as you 
 may be, the level maps in halo were astounding. They were huge, leaving you free to roam and opening 
 up many types of battle styles from sneaking by enemies, to hanging back and picking them off, 
 or just blazing through fights. There was a little exploring involved, but you were always led 
 in the right track with few misshaps. The maps offered wide variety, suiting all tastes from natural 
 to man ( or alien ) made. Their were several levels aboard ships and many others out on the ring 
 of halo. Halo itself offered everything from a more cheerful meadow areas with frotresses, to desertish 
 plataues, to snow covered ravines at all times of day. The level make ups helped put suspense into 
 the game and added alltogether to just the basic feel. Characters in the game just upted the ante 
 for me. From the almost stupid human marines, to the brutal covenant, I felt that they were very 
 well put together and helped me understand the importance of a good cast and good enemies in video 
 games. It's no longer pointing and shooting at something that looks like you dog digested it and 
 somebody put it in your tv. But what got me was the introduction of the flood. They made me rethink 
 all of my weapon combos, going from an assualt rifle/pistol matchup to a shotgun/plasma rifle combo 
 so I was well prepared for most situations. Also the fact that some enemies carry shields while 
 other are downright cowards, and that the elites were strong and could blow you away was something 
 that made the game interesting. Whenever I went into battle, it was always nice to know if this 
 was going to be a 1 minute grunt issue with an elite carrying a needler, or several elites with 
 plasma rifles and shielded jackes running at you from all sides. And the coloring of covenant dictating 
 power levels was nothing new, but it was interestingly done. Even the pair of superpowered hunters 
 was fun, new, and exciting when you met them. Which leads us to the gameplay itself. Flying ships 
 and drving cars are fun, but shooting guns is the best. All of the weapons in the game are fun 
 to shoot and play with, and it's challenging to see what kind of weapon combos you have the most 
 issues with to force yourself to play differently. Until a little while ago, I didn't appreciate 
 that fact that the needler and plasma pistol homed in on targets, but had written them off as low 
 powered covenant weapons. Another fun feature is the melee attacks. From behind they are an instant 
 kill and are noisless, creating some pretty tense moments that have a very stealthy assassin sense. 
 There are some rooms while you are moving from one ravine to another on assault on the control 
 room level where you can take out a whole room without taking a single shot if you stop and think 
 instead of going in with guns blazing. The melee attacks have some very interesting animations 
 to view and also the ability to mutilate enemy bodies. Thats not a very interesting feature until 
 you feel the stress of battle and get very pissed off at one specific alien, then it's quite fun. 
 My only issues is that the melee attacks for bigger weapons like the rocket launcher don't have 
 a stronger attack when used from the front because it still requires 4 or 5 hits on an elite on 
 the higher difficulties to take it down. All in all, halo is an incredibly well done game for it's 
 time and still now. It has created an multi-billion empire that now finished, is open up to many 
 new items that we have heard about including a George Lucas game and a movie. Halo set up two very 
 ground breaking games and will be one of the most notable classics ranking with Pong and Mario 
 64 for it's shaping of the culture and gaming world. It is an incredibly great game to get into 
 and opened up a whole new world to me. Halo is by far one of the greatest games Microsoft studios 
 has ever put out but shouldn't be written off as a great game or a horrible game because of all 
 it and it's sequels hype, but a trilogy of games that need to be experienced and explored, opening 
 up a whole new world for first-person shooters, sci-fi, and the multi-player online experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyplant4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  As a teenager, I had grown up playing video games but never really gotten into them. For a 2 or 
 3 years, there was hype about the series but it was something I had never indulged myself in. A 
 year ago I picked up the game for the first time and beat it on normal in 15 hours. Groundbreaking, 
 no. But for me, it was life shattering. The game instantly got me into other things. Halo was a 
 ground breaking game when it first came out for the gaming industry. Retelling it's history is 
 pointless. But what it isn't known for is a good game for beggining gamers. It's controls are easy 
 to understand and the gameplay is addicting. Even the story line isn't that bad. Easing you into 
 the universe, the game creates awesome game play areas that are impressive to anyone. The ability 
 to select and choose weapons is something I find better done then in most games. There are combinations 
 that are for people who prefer to hang back, or barge in with guns blazing taking no prisoners. 
 The ability to quietly slip by a fight to regain health with a few melee blows was astounding. 
 From having to worry about what level Pikachu is on to now destroying whole armadas of alien races, 
 Halo is astounding. Halo offers a good starting first-person shooter because of the way the guns 
 handle. In Halo, a shot gun will blow close range enemies away with awesome power. Even in todays 
 top games like Bio Shock, in later levels the shot gun feels like a weak peice of metal in your 
 hands. The pistol and sniper rifle are fine to play with, but for anyone who wants to get down 
 and dirty, the assualt rifle is the altimuate weapon. And for the ultimate thrill, the ability 
 to take a rocket launcher and take aliens out of existance. Even more fun for me were the covenant 
 weapons. The plasma rifle was fun, but the homing in ability and how powered blasts of a fully 
 charged plasma pistol give me a thrill. Even better is the needler which allows you to shoot arrow/crystal 
 looking ammuntion at enemies and watch them die in a pink explosion. The one draw back of the weapons 
 is not to be able to pick up the covenant's plasma versions of the rocket launcher. After experiencing 
 the ability to pick and choose my weapons in early levels, the let down in one of the later levels 
 was a bit of a shock. Another great item of the halo games is the vehicles. Everything from ghosts, 
 which are hovering vehicle with large guns, to scorpion, a large tank with missles and machine 
 gun, to the banshee in later levels which allowed you to fly through the air attacking everything 
 in your path. But the unimous vote goes to the warthog, which in theory is just a dune bugy with 
 turret, it sounds like it would need to be a bit more. But in reality, the warthog is a blast to 
 drive with more kick then some of the other vehicles. Even the ground mounted plasma tourettes 
 are fun to blow enemies away with. My chief issue with the vehicles was not being able to access 
 all of them. What would have been especially fun to do in this game would be able to grab the wraith 
 towards the end of assualt on the control room and shell the pyrramid. It also would have been 
 nicer to have the ability to have larger level maps to fly the banshee on. They were a fun thrill, 
 but the small amount of gameplay actually spent on them seemed like a bummer, especially since 
 their only real purpose was to ferry you back and forth from halo's pulse generators. Down as you 
 may be, the level maps in halo were astounding. They were huge, leaving you free to roam and opening 
 up many types of battle styles from sneaking by enemies, to hanging back and picking them off, 
 or just blazing through fights. There was a little exploring involved, but you were always led 
 in the right track with few misshaps. The maps offered wide variety, suiting all tastes from natural 
 to man ( or alien ) made. Their were several levels aboard ships and many others out on the ring 
 of halo. Halo itself offered everything from a more cheerful meadow areas with frotresses, to desertish 
 plataues, to snow covered ravines at all times of day. The level make ups helped put suspense into 
 the game and added alltogether to just the basic feel. Characters in the game just upted the ante 
 for me. From the almost stupid human marines, to the brutal covenant, I felt that they were very 
 well put together and helped me understand the importance of a good cast and good enemies in video 
 games. It's no longer pointing and shooting at something that looks like you dog digested it and 
 somebody put it in your tv. But what got me was the introduction of the flood. They made me rethink 
 all of my weapon combos, going from an assualt rifle/pistol matchup to a shotgun/plasma rifle combo 
 so I was well prepared for most situations. Also the fact that some enemies carry shields while 
 other are downright cowards, and that the elites were strong and could blow you away was something 
 that made the game interesting. Whenever I went into battle, it was always nice to know if this 
 was going to be a 1 minute grunt issue with an elite carrying a needler, or several elites with 
 plasma rifles and shielded jackes running at you from all sides. And the coloring of covenant dictating 
 power levels was nothing new, but it was interestingly done. Even the pair of superpowered hunters 
 was fun, new, and exciting when you met them. Which leads us to the gameplay itself. Flying ships 
 and drving cars are fun, but shooting guns is the best. All of the weapons in the game are fun 
 to shoot and play with, and it's challenging to see what kind of weapon combos you have the most 
 issues with to force yourself to play differently. Until a little while ago, I didn't appreciate 
 that fact that the needler and plasma pistol homed in on targets, but had written them off as low 
 powered covenant weapons. Another fun feature is the melee attacks. From behind they are an instant 
 kill and are noisless, creating some pretty tense moments that have a very stealthy assassin sense. 
 There are some rooms while you are moving from one ravine to another on assault on the control 
 room level where you can take out a whole room without taking a single shot if you stop and think 
 instead of going in with guns blazing. The melee attacks have some very interesting animations 
 to view and also the ability to mutilate enemy bodies. Thats not a very interesting feature until 
 you feel the stress of battle and get very pissed off at one specific alien, then it's quite fun. 
 My only issues is that the melee attacks for bigger weapons like the rocket launcher don't have 
 a stronger attack when used from the front because it still requires 4 or 5 hits on an elite on 
 the higher difficulties to take it down. All in all, halo is an incredibly well done game for it's 
 time and still now. It has created an multi-billion empire that now finished, is open up to many 
 new items that we have heard about including a George Lucas game and a movie. Halo set up two very 
 ground breaking games and will be one of the most notable classics ranking with Pong and Mario 
 64 for it's shaping of the culture and gaming world. It is an incredibly great game to get into 
 and opened up a whole new world to me. Halo is by far one of the greatest games Microsoft studios 
 has ever put out but shouldn't be written off as a great game or a horrible game because of all 
 it and it's sequels hype, but a trilogy of games that need to be experienced and explored, opening 
 up a whole new world for first-person shooters, sci-fi, and the multi-player online experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackwhite1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  well, well, well. where to start? halo is a good game, massively overrated. the single player has 
 a diffeculty curve that goes up and down alot, i. e. your running downhill and then suddenly you 
 run headlong into a brickwall. the storyline isnt that good, and bassicly, you are called upon 
 as a last resort of the human race to protect earth from aliens. right from the beggining, u have 
 to carry around some computer... girl... thingy.... on a small chip, which, when in covenent (alien) 
 hands could give away the location of earth and destroy mankind. however, some of your npc helpers 
 (other soldiers) are so dum, they make you want to hand the chip to the covenent and say \ here, 
 detstroy them. now.\ 
  
  what i am saying is that the single player sucks something large, hairy and salty, it just has 
 you running around alien ships all the time killing the same monsters over and over and over and 
 over again, and then some more. the guy who you play as, master cheif, is a total idiot, and will 
 do his best to pick really s*** moments to reload his gun. acyually, thats my fault, but i just 
 needed something to moan about. in conclusion, if you buy this game looking at the single player, 
 have a knife ready to slit your wrists when it all becomes to terrible.
  
  and now, the wounderful, wounderful multiplayer. 24 hours a day, there millions (ok, thousands) 
 of people waiting to get owned. you can only play with 16 people, but thats enough by far. its 
 NOT LAGGY, ignore the dickweeds that say so. the multiplayer will never die and is worth the dwonload/money 
 you pay for this game. to break it down totally, multiplayer lasts forever, campaign is boring 
 and annoying, good game, but just good, not amazing, not outstanding, just good, ok? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  My brother plays Halo on the Xbox. I always wondered why my brother was and is so much into Halo. 
 He absolutely loves the first game, and also the second game.
  
  I don't understand why. I don't understand what is so great about this game.
  
  I only beat 
 the game a month or two ago, a week or two after I bought it. I put it on easy, because I sucked 
 so bad at it, and I wanted to see what was so great about the story, or gameplay, or anything. 
 I put it on easy because I just wanted to get through it, to say that I had beat it, and to also 
 just get through the experience. I don't care about bragging that I beat it on such and such difficulty. 
 I swallowed my pride.
  
  The story was quite unremarkable - you're a good guy trying to save the world and you have to shoot 
 a bunch of bad alien monsters.
  
  That's really original, groundbreaking, revolutionary. How did they think of that?
  
  The game-play 
 was nothing special. It was pretty standard with all the weapons and such. Nothing we haven't already 
 seen on the PC.
  
  The graphics are completely horrible compared to other shooters that have come out on the PC. They 
 are completely unspectacular and will not blow you away.
  
  I will give credit where credit is due, though - the graphics are smooth, and there are no huge 
 gaping bugs technically or game-play wise that would dramatically detract from the experience.
 
  
  All this being said, I actually specifically bought the game for its multiplayer. And the multiplayer 
 is extremely bad, and unbalanced - it is extremely wonky and I didn't enjoy it at all. Practically 
 all of the servers are modded, or they have stupid weapon setups, like give everyone a grenade 
 launcher and have that be the only weapon on the map, and you get 8 shots.
  
  About the (un) balance - snipers can kill you with one shot, and same with a shotgun, but it takes 
 two full clips (of 30 bullets or however many it is) of a machine gun to kill someone? It's extremely 
 frustrating to hit someone with 50 bullets and then they blow you away with a shotgun or a sniper 
 hits you.
  
  I just think that Halo is completely overrated as a game. The game-play isn't as spectacular as 
 all the console gamers want you to think it is.
  
  The story was completely unremarkable as well.
  
  I just don't understand what the fuss is 
 about.
  
  But that's just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ztoky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is soooo good! I was suppose to write this review long time ago but I write it now instead 
 then but will be short. 
  The first Halo game gives you a good start to the Halo series that gets better and better. It's 
 a first-person shooter and it all is so classic. Aliens as the enemies and you are the super hero. 
 But still it's really gooooooood!
  
  Buy this game if you love shooters, Warning! It's not the best graphic right now but if you're 
 goin' to get Halo 3 now and haven't played the first game first then I really advice you to play 
 the first games first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owenben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved
  PC
  
  Halo has a one of the best story lines in vedio game history, With detail graphics and challeging 
 levels. has one of the most fun muitplayer ever with online play that work well.
  
  Halo is a Sci-fi shooter, you play a soilder called Master cheif or sometimes called Saptarn 117. 
 The action starts right from the begin with a ship under attack by these aleins called the convertnet 
 and Master Cheif is called into action. The weapon are banlce between the humans and the convertnet 
 each weapon has different versions.
  
  The levels are very challeging and will make you use vechails and your own feet to take down the 
 convertnet, later on in the game you will meet a new enermy the Flood that will make you play the 
 game alot hard for you with both enemys at your neck.
  
  Overall Halo is revolution in frist person shooters, with online play its just the best game you 
 can buy. The game could of been better with online story mode so you could play with your friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  This is possibly my favorite game of all time. I know that some Nintendo fans hate games by XBox, 
 but since Bungie left microsoft, there is talk of Halo Wii! its graphics are okay for 2002 graphics, 
 but some people expect better i . For the most part, Halo is enjoyable and there's the internet 
 play once you finish the campaign. There are also the downloads for some1 tottaly bored. Theres 
 a little something in Halo for everybody: Cortana's humorus jokes, decals, and the biggest, an 
 engaging story. My favorite thing is internet play. I want vista to play halo 2!
  4.8 out of 5 9.9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoh-a-sakura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all when you get in the level you should'nt have to start with a really weak weapon. When 
 I get the sniper and start sniping people while they're moving "say to the left really fast" you 
 have to snipe where they are about to go. The bullet from the sniper is a bit too slow to catch 
 up with the pace of the player, but I find it takes quite a bit of practice to do this regularly. 
 The controls are pretty strait forward. W, a, s, d is up, left, right and back shooting is obvious 
 and same with grenade chucking. All in all i would say this game wont really take a lot of time 
 to beat in campaign but is pretty much boring unless you have the full version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: averywhite
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skinny92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was great. It wasn't short, it was actually a challenge at some points in the game. Great 
 storyline, which is rarely found in games made earlier on. This games shows you that you don't 
 need life-like graphics to make a great game. Now, for the multiplayer. It was among the best ever. 
 There are tons of different modes to choose from, like CTF, King of the Hill, Racing, and of course 
 Deathmatch. There are even more variants of those games. You can create you own games modes, by 
 adding certain weapons, vehicles, and wether there are teams. Over all, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halojugernut2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Hello i will be reviewing Halo: Combat Evolved for xbox and pc. 
  This is one of the few epic games that have been releasted ever. This game has good a. i, story, 
 and gameplay. Halo was anounced back in 1999 as a 3rd person shooter (with more weapons) on the 
 pc and mac but because it took so long to make it, it was ported on the Xbox in 2001. Fans were 
 pleased. What most made this game one of the beast was miltiplayer mode witch people with Xbox 
 live could battle each other via the internet. The campain mode was also one of the best because 
 of 4 different difficulty levels, easy - for first timers, normal - for people who want a little 
 bit of a challenge, herotic - for people who want to be brave, and finaly legandary - for people 
 who want to play in a heck like difficulty. About have way throught the game when people were fighting 
 the covonent the incountered a new foe the flood. When I saw this I was amazed at what halo did. 
 Then in 2003 came the pc port for Halo witch included 6 new miltiplayer maps and you didn't need 
 xbox live to play online. The a. i is good too, because when an enemy sees you, you might want to 
 take cover because he will call all of his buddy's to come kill you. The story is one of the beast 
 also because it has sad moments, awsome moments, and oh no what happened moments.
  That is what makes this game one of the greatest anyone has ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemist19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  ____________This review may be saying what everybody already knows, but I just want to reiterate 
 how awesome this game is. First of all nothing beats the original. They pretty much sucked it up 
 in Halo 2 for me. The reason this games is awesome is, first of all, the story. _____One of the 
 greatest stories you can have for a game, it makes you want to fight on until you kill every last 
 one of those convenant and also the flood. The fighting mechanics are just right for this game. 
 Has all the weapons you need and they feel just right for the environment and the era your fighting 
 in. There are numerous enemies from the grunt to brutes that give you a good diversity of monsters 
 to kill. Although the graphics aren't the most detailed, they also aren't too bad and won't get 
 in the way of the really enjoyable game play. Overall this game is one of the best out there and 
 the only way to find out why is to try it out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  As the wheel spins, it creates centrifugal force that mimics gravity on its inner rim. An entire 
 world exists inside this wheel, with huge developed structures and vast, open landscapes. But something 
 else exists in the Halo as well -- something mysterious and powerful. All that is really known 
 is that a force of alien invaders is desperate to find it and they are leaving death and destruction 
 in the wake of their search. This mystery of Halo must be solved and the aliens must be vanquished, 
 before they find what they are looking for and destroy us all.
  
  The action in Halo is squad-based. While gamers have lots of options when making decisions about 
 the individual characters they will play, many missions are best accomplished through teamwork 
 and certain multiplayer capabilities are supported with this in mind. The 3D engine's default view 
 switches between first-person and third person, depending on the situation. Much of the action 
 takes place in the wide open spaces inside the mammoth space station, with no level breaks or load 
 times as the player moves from one place to another.
  
  Some of the basic themes and plot points in Halo may be familiar to gamers who have played Marathon, 
 Bungie's successful first-person shooter which was released in 1992 for the Macintosh platform. 
 Among other elements, Marathon is known for intelligent level design and a deep, intriguing story. 
 Though Halo should not be considered a sequel to Marathon, the two share common plot elements and 
 have related back-stories. Initial development of Halo was done simultaneously for the Macintosh, 
 the PC, and the Xbox.
  
  A futuristic shooter with aliens as enemies and exploration of alien lands and environments. Influences 
 include genre classics like Half-Life and Quake Arena. Incredibly fun in both one player and co-op 
 modes. No real loading times, rather, Halo loads on the fly, making the action nonstop. Once you 
 start playing you'll be hard pressed to put down the controller. 
  
  From the opening cinematic, it's clear Halo has an opportunity to be a remarkable game. Fans of 
 first-person shooters will become immediately immersed, for Halo possesses an uncanny ability to 
 reel you into its virtual world. The character detail and huge environments will aesthetically 
 please both gamers and non-gamers alike. The animation on each Marine you encounter is remarkable, 
 possessing almost endless moving parts and distinct facial features, while the lighting, textures, 
 and massive landscapes prove Halo and the Xbox to be without equal on the console market. 
  
  The futuristic story revolves around the Marine Corps battling an enemy called Covenant over 
 a supposed "super weapon" codenamed Halo. The ring in space where the game takes place contains 
 its own ecosystem and environmental effects like rain and snow. At the start of each chapter, a 
 letterboxed cut-scene will appear along with the chapter's title on the bottom right corner of 
 the screen -- a nice cinematic touch that helps Halo move along more like a movie than a game.
 
  
  After you land on Halo and trudge across the planet's surface, your aid Cortana (a holographic 
 female companion who exists on a microchip in your armor) will warn you of incoming ships. Looking 
 up across the vast landscape you'll notice dots in the sky moving closer: it's the enemy and they're 
 landing. If you're feeling brave, you can stop and fight, but it's usually safer to wait until 
 your marine friends arrive to aid you.
  
  As with other console shooters, such as Medal of Honor and Perfect Dark, Halo incorporates stealth 
 tactics, which involves sneaking up on unsuspecting foes without being detected. Fire a gun or 
 walk too quickly and your cover may be blown. Fortunately, the dual analog setup is near perfect, 
 rarely using the controller's face buttons and predominantly using its triggers, making for an 
 ingeniously ergonomic design. Your fellow soldiers also display remarkable AI, shadowing your movements 
 and crouching into position to fire on the next unsuspecting enemy. Many will even remember if 
 you hit them with friendly fire, not trusting you to cross their path without drawing down on you. 
 
  
  Enemy AI is also strong. Enemy creatures range in variety and intelligence, as some will crouch 
 behind rocks and hide behind walls, or occasionally be caught sleeping. Some of the less gifted 
 will make humorous comments while fleeing a potentially dangerous situation, while others will 
 meet you head on, seeking you out wherever you choose to hide. 
  
  The Warthog is one of a handful of vehicles that can be overtaken and used in Halo. From hovercraft 
 to huge tanks, if you see a vehicle unoccupied, chances are you can drive it. Most impressive is 
 the realistic physics involved in crashing into objects, enemies, and obstacles. Driving the tank 
 and smashing into vehicles is pure fun, especially if there are enemies standing nearby. There 
 are also several weapons to be found, though in the spirit of realism you can only carry two at 
 a time. Most weapons replicate what has been previously done in the genre (such as the grenade, 
 sniper rifle, shotgun, machine gun, and rocket launcher) , but there are a few unique to Halo, such 
 as the plasma grenade that sticks to whatever it lands on and the Half-Life-influenced Needler 
 gun. The Needler fires its projectiles repeatedly, homing in on its target and then sticking to 
 it, only to explode afterwards.
  
  The multiplayer options are extensive, offering you split-screen action with up to four players 
 in games ranging from cooperative Regular missions to competitive Tag to King of the Hill. Should 
 you decide to mix it up a little, a game edit feature allows you to customize the rules of the 
 multiplayer games. This is more than handicapping features such as time it takes to regenerate 
 after being killed and walking a bit slower after every kill you make, but enables you to actually 
 change the game's objectives. When finished, edit the name of the game and save it to the hard 
 drive.
  
  Those with an unlimited budget can network up to four Xboxes together to play with total of 16 
 players (or with four players, each with their own system, on four separate televisions) . Fast 
 and furious with seemingly no loss in frame rate or visual quality, the multiplayer games are highly 
 addictive. The development team at Bungie has done a remarkable job with Halo, taking many successful 
 elements from previous standouts in the genre to make one very playable game. 
  
  Great textures and lighting complement incredible detail in both environment and characters, making 
 Halo the best-looking console game to date. Quality voice-over work and realistic sound effects 
 complement a perfect score. The music does a great job in adding a cinematic feel to the game. 
 Getting through the game on the easiest level will take roughly 15 hours. Should you decide to 
 completely conquer each of the games levels, completion time could grow to up to 100 hours. Add 
 to this the co-op and multiplayer deathmatches and you have yourself one of the highest replay 
 values of any game to date. 
  
  Full-color documentation does a good job in explaining the story behind the game. Documentation 
 of weapons and characters is also present though there is limited info on objectives, which is 
 to be expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Halo combat evolved for the pc was a perfect game. It is a straight forward of halo for the pc. 
 Ther graphics are great, the story is great, the computers are smart. This game is very fun. You 
 will play alot before moving on. You should buy this game. You will love the multiplayer accept 
 that the players are sometimes dicks. If you get this game, send me a message, and you can join 
 my clan. This game is addicting. Send me a message if you want. The game's diffuculty is allright 
 depending on mode. gdgdfgh gtdg fdg gfg fdgte gtdg etgy etght gtg tgdtf gdfgdfg gfdg gdfg fdgdfs 
 gdfg fdg fdg dfg fgdg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX-GamerBot-Xx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a fun and exciting game you should get. You play as a super human named Master Chief trying 
 to save Earth from this alien race called the Covenant. In the campaign it spans 10 missions which 
 would take you about 15 hours to complete, but after that there's the multi player which is really 
 fun up to 16 players online. The weapons are well balanced with each other you have the usual weapons 
 in other shooters like the and assault rifle, pistol, vehicles like tanks and jeeps. The AI is 
 really smart. They will throw grenades at you and use cover a lot and try to kill you and all that. 
 The game can be a little laggy for some reason on low-end computers. Halo took a long time coming 
 to th PC after the Xbox version came out. It was originally announced in 1999, but it took a long 
 time. The multi player is the best part and it's competitive. You don't wait around before the 
 round is over like other shooters you just jump in the game and kick some butt. I really recommend 
 people to get this game it's superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  In 2001, a game came out. It was so popular, it went down in history. It was promised for the PC. 
 That was a long time ago. Now it has come out for us PC users. It's Halo, but already, it has it's 
 flaws. It came too late. I don't need to go into full detail about the game, seeing as it's a legend 
 and every respectful gamer owns it. The graphics were never made to astound people, they were just 
 made to make the game work without it looking like garbage. The graphics are better than before, 
 but by today's standards they might as well have kept the graphics exactly the same. Bungie has 
 added the Banshee & fuel rod gun just so they can say it's not just to expand the market to the 
 PC (although I must say the Banshee was a nice touch to multiplayer) . Despite all these things we 
 must all remember this is HALO we are talking about, and compared to that, these losses are quite 
 minimal. If you don't have an XBOX & have been waiting for it to come out, I'll put it simply: 
 GET IT. But if you are just a Halo fan who has the XBOX version I hate to say it, but it's not 
 worth your while. The game's still great, though, and I'd reccomend it to anyone who does not already 
 have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game is overrated, is not so great in 2003,, i dont know, i finished in some hours,, and i 
 not very happy, i get irritated with the few scenarios,, and the poor design,, floors and floors 
 and floors of the same, and i have to say i saw a lot of reminiscense of anothers games, like,, 
 the zombies with "thinks" in is head, is the same that the zombies with "thinks" in is head of 
 Half Life and the "thinks" when walk for the walls, looks like "thinks" of House of the Dead, or 
 Resident Evil. But what the hell, this is a good game after all, is innovative for is time, and 
 great shooter,, one of the thinks i like is the shooting, is great, with the correct sensibility, 
 shoot that "funny" corvenant that say "wowow" and run awway, is amazing. 
  And play this with friends,, is not so great now, but is funny
  
  Hail to Master Chief
  
 
  Let the force be with you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Good enemy AI considering when the game was made; Well balanced weaponry; Campaign scales 
 well to each difficulty; Fun online multiplayer; Fantastic sound; Most things in the game hold 
 up to the standards today
  
  Cons: However, some things in the game haven't held up so well; Some lag online; Levels often have 
 many repeating halls; Some of the online maps just aren't that fun; No co-op; System requirements 
 are too high for a game with these graphics
  
  Ah, HaloWhere would shooters be without it? It is the game that introduced so many new features 
 considered standard nowadays. It is the game that helped create good AI (again setting standards) . 
 It is the game that set the standard console controls. So yeah, it help mold the shooters of the 
 last 6 or so years, but how has it held up? Surprisingly well.
  
  The premise behind Halo is a simple, albeit original one. It is the future and the humans are at 
 war with the Covenant, an alien race bent on the humans' destruction. They are planning to use 
 a superweapon called Halo (it's a ring that hangs near Earth) . When one of the last large ships 
 is about to be destroyed, the captain has people evacuate and try to land ON Halo. You play as 
 a supersoldier of sorts, called the Master Chief. Your goal: to destroy Halo.
  
  What's particularly cool about Halo is that it keeps its universe and its gameplay pretty close 
 together. Your enemies are the Covenant (and a few others who show up later in the game) , and each 
 one has their own type of AI. For instance, the Elites are aggressive and will try to charge you 
 if you get too close, but if you take down their shield they will go for cover if you give them 
 a chance. Grunts are easily frightened, and thus run away when stronger enemies are destroyed. 
 It works rather well.
  
  The weapons also factor in to the universe rather well. You'll get fairly standard weapons such 
 as the Assault rifle (a machine gun) , the shotgun, and the pistol, which the humans use. But then, 
 if you kill a Covenant unit, you'll get more unique weapons that you'd expect them to use. These 
 include the plasma rifle (a laser shooting version of the assault rifle) , the plasma pistol (a 
 weaker slower plasma shooting weapon that can charge for a really strong blast) , and more. Also, 
 Halo takes a page from Half-Life and never has these weapons floating around. Usually they are 
 on your allies and enemies, or on dead bodies.
  
  Besides weapons, you get vehicles from both sides to play with too. You got tanks, off-road vehicles, 
 hovercraft, and many more. They each have their own unique feel to how they drive and shoot, and 
 you won't be mistaking one for the other very often.
  
  However, probably the best things that Halo did were the more unique things. For instance, Halo 
 started regenerating health. You have a shield and health bars. If you get shot too much, you'll 
 lose a shield, and when your shield is down, you lose health bars. However, avoid getting shot 
 too much, and the shield goes back up. Another unique thing Halo did was limit your weapons. Previous 
 games would allow you to be a walking armory and hold dozens of weapons. Halo limits you to two 
 weapons, forcing you to think about what weapon you really need to bring with you for what purpose. 
 Both of these were probably scoffed at, at the time, yet are now standards in most great shooters.
 
  
  Unfortunately, not everything has held up. The level design in the game isn't incredible by any 
 means. There are some cool set pieces (one particularly cool one has the humans land on a beach 
 and face off with just as many Covenant forces) , but many parts of the game aren't quite as brilliantly 
 designed, and often repeat parts of the level as if Bungie fell in love with the copy & paste (I'm 
 looking at you, Library) . Mind you, Halo is still an excellent run & gun shooter, the levels just 
 aren't even in quality.
  
  The story-telling in the single player hasn't aged well either. The lines and voice acting are 
 still quite good, but the animations to go along feel kind of stiff (it's horrible watching Captain 
 Keyes speak the way his mouth moves) , and the lighting just doesn't show much mood anymore. Is 
 it downright bad? No, it's just that many games take this to the next level these days.
  
  When you finish the fun single player, you can rejoice in the fact that Gearbox made multiplayer 
 online in its port of Halo. Thanks to solid mechanics and weapon balancing, as well as multiple 
 modes, the core gameplay is quite fun. Unfortunately most of the stuff around it doesn't hold up 
 as well.
  
  First off, the level design is a VERY mixed bag. You have a few genius levels (such as Blood Gulch, 
 or Beaver Creek) , and some levels that are so gimmicky that they don't make much sense (such as 
 Longest or Boarding Action) . Second, there is often lag online. It's not game breaking bag, but 
 even on great connections, you'll run into lag more often than you'd want to. When you find a good 
 server running a good map, multiplayer is a pure blast, it's just that more than a few things can 
 go wrong when you're searching.
  
  Both online and off, the graphics won't impress you. Sure Halo came out in 2001, but in 2003, the 
 graphics feel like a slap in the face sometimes (actually you'll want to slap some of the characters 
 for their faces) . Everything except the humans tends to look okay, but everything has a certain 
 ugly blockiness to everything. But then again, in a 2001 game, those were actually okay graphics.
 
  
  The sound on the other hand is exceptional. The voice acting is top notch showing all the emotions 
 needed. The aliens all have great sound effects that give them a surprising amount of character. 
 And the musical score makes the game feel extremely epic every time you run into a large battle.
 
  
  Everyone should play Halo at one point or another. Of course you have to realize that you are getting 
 an old game with old issues. But then again, you are getting a GREAT old game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeak123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Halo for the pc.
  WOW! This game is amazing! But let's break it down first.
  
  Graphics- Alright back when this game came out they were pretty good but compared to today's standards 
 like crysis they aren't great but there sufficing. Back when the game came out I'd give it about 
 a 8 but now a days it's about a 5 . 
  
  
  Sound- The sound is awesome! I rely on it some much, when your in intense battles and you need 
 to hear the enemy's foot steps to stay alive. Wow it just great! I give it a 9 maybe 10. 
  
  
  Game play- It's Halo the game play is awesome. 
  
  
  Bottom line Halo is a great 
 game. The only thing that really sucks is that even on a high end computer like the review said, 
 the frame rate starts to lack when you're in big battles. The other thing is that in the campaign 
 it seems that you're doing the same thing over and over and it feels really recycled at times. 
 Even though the review says that the multiplayer sucks, it doesn't. The multiplayer is the reason 
 this game rocks. The reason that the multiplayer is so good is because there is this free version 
 of Halo's multiplayer that everyone can get so there are a lot more players online all the time. 
 Rather then those flaws, this game is incredible and if you don't have vista or the Xbox 360 this 
 multiplayer is definitely for you or you can just get the multiplayer for free from Robert Nye 
 I believe. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stargategamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Halo: CE is in fact the greatest game any first-person shooter game hands down BIG time and I mean 
 big. I played this game over and over again. The grafics are outstading for a PC game in 2003. 
 For thoses who don't yet know that Half-Life is similer to Halo. The reason is that when you get 
 to a certin point in the game you will come across simler eneimes from Half-life. The gameplay 
 however is cool as real life itself. Some times you have back up from mairnes but some times they 
 staybehind and have you secure the area yourself which is a disadvatchge for anyone who needs back 
 up. Some times you see your freinds die and you wanted to save them but couldent, is a bit sad. 
 On top of all that it is the best game in the world. No dought about it the best game... again hands 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved is a great FPS.
  Personally I'm not a big fan of the Halo series but when i played it for the computer i was dazzled. 
 The game play is amazing!!!! Besides the fact there's so many people playing.
  The campaign is excellent.
  I love the story. This was fun. I dont know what else you could say.
 
  Sticking people is great. Intense multiplayer is whats the best of this game. Just play the game 
 what else to say?
  
  The graphics are what's expected of a game 4 years ago but it's just a great game to play.
  If 
 you enjoy fps You must get this game, you will enjoy it tremendously! HALO: COMBAT EVOLVED IS JUST 
 PLAIN FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogg74
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  Halo is one of the best FPS games that I have played and im a Sony fan. When Halo 3 was about to 
 be released I thought well maybe I should get in on all the hype and I did and this is definitely 
 a #1 Microsoft Game. The graphics are just basic and are nothing special the storyline is good 
 and it doesnt take long to get used to the controls.
  
  For those who havent played Halo before you play Master Chief an Elite soldier sent so a planet 
 that is shaped like a halo and you have to destroy an Alien race known as the convent. The ship 
 you are on is being attacked by the convent and then you have to fight your way through the ship 
 to survive and get to a life ship. That then crashes on Halo and you have to fight your way through 
 the game to survive.
  
  This is definitely one of the best FPS games I have ever played and even hardcore Sony fans will 
 like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bill900
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  PLEA: Before you rate this review, please actually read it.
  
  When I saw this game for $20 in my local Gamestop I though why not? and decided to buy a copy to 
 see if it lived up to the hype surrounding it. It didn't.
  
  Let me just say that I will not knock the graphics for being 4 years old, however I will criticize 
 them for having little to no difference from the graphics of the xbox version which was released 
 in 2001. When I compare the graphics of this game to other games also released in 2003 I am shocked 
 at how lackluster this game appears. Case and point: Max Payne 2, Freedom Fighters, and Star Wars 
 Knights of the Old republic
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/maxpayne2/index. html
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/freedomthebattleforli/index. html
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/rpg/starwarsknightsoftor/index. html
 
  
  Now on to the campaign. I went into the campaign expecting to be blown away by the most expertly 
 crafted story I'd ever seen in a game. Instead I got a generic advanced alien race wants to destroy 
 mankind for religious and only one guy can stop them story that was filled with cliches and was 
 difficult to follow. I found myself thrust into missions with no idea why what I was doing was 
 so important (yes I did watch the cutscenes) . And then there was the library level. This level 
 alone was almost enough for me to decide that finishing the game just wasn't worth it. It seemed 
 like it was designed to point out everything bad in that game. From the fact that it was basically 
 the same thing over and over to the fact that they tried to make it scary and failed. For those 
 who haven't played the game already the level basically consisted of running through hallways that 
 all look exactly alike (would it of killed the developers to make the rooms look different from 
 one another?) while my annoying floating companion directed me toward the next objective. And when 
 I got to the doorway to the next bit of the level he would always dash off for some reason and 
 leave me to deal with the hordes of zombies that for some reason always chose that moment to attack 
 me. Yes, I said zombies. Actually they are almost exactly like the headcrabs from Half-Life. I 
 mean would it of killed them to think up an interesting new creature for the segments that try 
 and fail to be scary? I guess it would of, because instead of just going with zombies they had 
 to almost completely copy the concept of alien parasites that attach themselves to people and take 
 over control their bodies from Half-Life.
  
  Now let me say this: The graphics actually look pretty decent in the parts of the game that are 
 outside. Unfortunately most of the game consists of killed generic alien #293 in generic corridor 
 #162. In fact there were times when I became lost just because all the rooms looked the same.
 
  
  Now I can't really knock the enemy AI because that was pretty good, but the friendly AI doesn't 
 seem to understand the concept of stealth. They will, at all times, run into a room with guns blazing 
 and be promptly killed.
  
  The only thing in this game I can't really find anything bad with is the multipayer. The multiplayer 
 in pretty good, if lacking the depth of other games.
  
  Well, I feel a lot better now that I've put my thoughts on this game out there, even though I expect 
 that this will be voted down by hordes of fanboys who don't even bother to read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonlygamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best shooters I've played. The controls are great, the story is awesome and 
 the graphics were great for their time. The single player campaign is alot of fun and the multiplayer 
 is a blast.
  While the single player mode is cool it's really fun to play against others online.
  There was 
 only one level I didnt like but other than that the game is awesome.
  Even with the release of Halo 3 I still enjoy playing Combat Evolved.
  Overall, it's a great 
 game if you like games that are sci-fi with cool storylines and online multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeameRCF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  People have complained that the campaign has repeating level designs, but I still think it is an 
 amazing game. I've been playing for over three years and I still play whenever I'm not busy or 
 with friends. The campaign has four great difficulty levels, ranging from ridiculously easy, to 
 pulling the hair out of your eye-brows frustration, and one finger saluting the general area of 
 that jerk elite with the sword. I find heroic to be a nice balance between the two. On easy mode 
 you can practically run through a whole level just using melee attacks. On heroic or legendary, 
 you have to utilize every weapon around you. The plasma pistol, one of the first weapons you come 
 across, becomes your best friend. Also, head-shots are a must if you use human weapons, and using 
 the Assault rifle is suicide unless your popping the flood spores, where it is extremely effective.
 
  
  The multiplayer is great fun too, and I recommend this game to anyone looking for a fun PC shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistervengeance
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  all righty. i'm gonna keep it short and sweet.
  
  story: great story with sweet enemies that are so much cooler than the good guys.
  
  campaign: 
 filled with levels that will bore you after the first round through. the only level that i would 
 play over and over is the beginning of the level truth and reconciliation until you actually got 
 into the ship that part was fun.
  
  multiplayer: speechless. the multiplayer in halo is really supreme, beats any other console fps 
 out there. whether you're doing a free for all match, or classic red vs. blue, be prepared to have 
 some F-U-N.
  
  online: i don't know if it's just my connection, but i could never get and maintain a good enough 
 connection for halo on the pc. if the actual framerate wasn't lagging, i would get a head shot 
 and then 5 minutles later it would say i killed him and wherever his body was roaming around he 
 would just fall over dead.
  
  gameplay: halo gameplay is amazing. not too slow, like gears of war, not too fast, like counter-strike, 
 it's just the right balance for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Really I fail to see why people think this game is the best game ever. Its nothing short of below 
 average.
  
  rating: 4.0 out of 10
  
  Detailed rating:
  
  Graphics: 7.0
  Story: 2.0 the story suckes, what is more, there is no logical reason to not have real names for 
 main characters (Sarge and Master Chief? give me a break, MS and Gear box can do better then that, 
 its completely devoid of imagination) .
  
  Also, this story compares way too much to Half Life 2's for my liking, like they were trying to 
 mooch money from valve by following hl2's equation.
  Music: 7.0
  the music is fairly good
  Replay Value: 3.8
  
  Really, after playing this game, the only 
 cool thing is weaponry.
  
  The multiplayer sucks because of all the noob-pro people that call you a noob when you kill them 
 and all the immaturity.
  
  story line is crappy at worst and a copy of hl2 at best.
  
  really, all in all, this is one to stay away from, go with half life, more mature people in the 
 multi player's, better storyline, more solid background story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_Fear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  NOTE: I've only played this game once for like 6 hours and didn't even beat the third level. This 
 is just first impressions.
  
  
  Halo is very popular. Anybody should know that as its mentioned on YouTube, on Gamespot forums, 
 and even on the news. There's good reason. Halo started with Combat Evolved. Now it has two sequels 
 which are both bestsellers, a prequel titled 'Halo Wars', and even Hollywood has found some interest 
 in making a Halo movie.
  
  Anyways, Combat Evolved just looks like your average 'shoot the aliens' game. However, there was 
 just something that made it spectacular. I think that it was the fact that every new game was trying 
 to be different than your average shoot 'em up game. But Combat Evolved was just a regular one 
 in the midst of all the others. Boy, did it work.
  
  But, Halo is not perfect. The graphics will sometimes annoy you. The mini map isn't very helpful. 
 That's pretty much it.
  
  Overall, Halo: Combat Evolved is practically perfect.
  
  Over And Out,
  
  Never_Fear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticadvance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The Halo franchise has swollen as more and more Halo lovers believe it to be the best FPS their 
 is. It isn't; don't get me wrong, it's a great game, but their are better games that actually develop 
 on the now aging FPS genre. I purchased Halo PC because I am a PC gamer, rather than the console 
 gamer I once with the old PS and N64. The first problem I met was a compatability issue that was 
 fixed by the 1.07 hot fix; An ordeal Xbox gamers don't have to go through. The moment I started 
 playing however I was addicted. The game 'fun yet childish' plot had me entertained for a good 
 seven hours. Being an UT and Joint Ops fan the multiplayer was to small for me, but the single 
 player was enough to keep me from selling the game. It's fun and thats what's important, but it 
 really dosn't deserve it's overenthusistic fanboy's views that it's 'revolutionary' or a 'land 
 mark'. The Halo franchised has bloated and has become popular for being popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Halo is second best to what Half Life was a few years before it and to what the two franchises 
 are now. I'm gonna lay that one down right now.
  
  Halo is a very cool/mediocre game at best. The idea is very neat, but the plot is shallow, leaving 
 maybe only the dim witted amused. For example, Cortana loads up into the Halo mainframe and has 
 the Master Chief there for a good few minutes, with enough time to explain the impending flood, 
 but she does't and its supposed to be dramatic when the Master Chief finds out. It's not. It's 
 lame. There aren't many characters in the game, making the plot even more shallow. I did get sad, 
 however, when Echo 419 crashed. The friendly AIs ability to fight is stunted at best. They're slaughtered 
 horribly. I played the game, having not played it since its original PC release, on Legendary because 
 I enjoy a challenge. It was... for the friendly AI who were not even able to ever take cover against 
 the Covenant. No help at all. It was tough for me too though, mostly when I was going into the 
 Index and blowing up the core was a pain in the ass too. The two weapon standard wasn't a new theme 
 in gaming, but it makes things interesting here. Every once in a while I would just let the Flood 
 and the Covenant duke it out and I'd just watch, later to go in an dissect the remainder with the 
 shotgun. Each of the two armies you fight against comes with a strategy to be used against it. 
 The Covenant, for example, is best dealt with by using their own weapons. They're powerful and 
 you can use them at long range. The flood, however, you'd really want to use the Marine weapons 
 such as the shotgun for the big guys, the assault riffle for the little things. Chuck a grenade 
 while reloading and you can hold off either without much effort involved. Vehicles are fun, but 
 they bother me too. For example, while inside a heavily armored tank, why do I get hit directly 
 every shot? Where's the armor? I didn't like the physics of the warthog either. It was too light. 
 A small bump sent it off all four wheels. Makes it a pain to drive at the end. It's a short game, 
 and the plot is light, which makes me dislike it a bit. I don't really feel satisfied. The bulk 
 of the appeal of this game is in the multilayer too, which is typical of all XBOX games. I don't 
 find immediate replay value very appealing, maybe in a few years I'll come back to it.
  
  Eh, I give it an honest 6.7. It's a bit overrated. Was then, is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virivirivapp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Really all in all, Halo: Combat evolved is one of the best first person shooters that I know about.
 
  take the role as Master Cheif and kill convenct scum. While playing I really felt sorry for the 
 Elites which you will understand when playing Halo 2.
  
  This game has everything that a game can offer. Wide range of guns, alien guns (wow!) bad ass vhiecals 
 and scared grunts, running in fear for your might.
  
  The only downside, is that the game isent as long as you'd wish it to be... and you cant kill 137 
 Guilty Spark (Oh how I wish I could) .
  
  This ranks and deserves a 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Halo is one of those few games that would pick up every word in the dictionary to mean great or 
 exhilarating.
  The story line seems quite basic at the beginning but rapidly develops with a few twists and turns 
 as the game progresses. One of the great things about the game is the combat modes and interaction 
 with the game environment. Walking around, tracking your enemies (convent) is superb. Then there 
 are the added extras of driving or flying in later levels plus my personal best, the tank, makes 
 the gaming experience great.
  The game A. I is pretty impressive. One pointer would be the response of your enemy according to 
 the difficulty level one is in. put it at easy and your enemy would run away screaming at the very 
 sound of your footstep and gunfire, while cranking up the difficulty level ultimately creates a 
 much bolder response to the point where you would be the one to chicken out.
  The only minor down bit would be the repetitive nature of the game world. After a few hours in 
 the game, everything soon starts to look the same, adding to the fact that you would have to go 
 through some areas more than once. Some of the areas look too much alike that it becomes tiring 
 going through them.
  The game music/ sound tracks should have been more varied. They are highly repetitive and though 
 really good, way too few.
  All in all, halo is a must have, full of suspense and thrills that would keep you glued to your 
 seat till you survive to the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacred_Pie
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  I couldnt belive how basic this game is when i played it. Run, shoot, drive, shoot, nothing realy 
 unique (such as slow mo in FEAR or sould cube in Doom 3) sure theres the sword thing, but every 
 other game has a physical weapon (doom 3 chainsaw) . I could probably over look its basic gameplay 
 if it look decent but its graphics were baic, if it had been on X-Box for so long couldnt they 
 do a graphics upgrade for PC?
  
  The enemy were realy stupid (in terms of Ai) and looked realy more like a childrens action figure 
 then a blood thirsty alien 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolokowoh
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Back in the day Halo was the king but that King as been dethroned. I know Halo a great shooting 
 that set a standard but common it isn't that impressive anymore. Halo was revolutionary and extremely 
 fun game that even know is given credit for all shooting games. there were shooting before Halo 
 people. Even all of them were on the pc. I hope that one day people willl refer to it as a great 
 game but not the best. Halo even now is still considered the best thing that ever happened but 
 it should be recognized as a revolutionary game that is overrated and overappreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Well, not much to say here... This game is basically just Halo: Combat Evolved for the X-Box, ported 
 to the PC. Sure, it has a few new maps, new weapons, and an added multi player, but it doesn't 
 really change the game at all... This is basically Halo 1.5. Now, that said, it is just like the 
 original, and the original was GREAT, hence this game is GREAT, but don't expect anything new from 
 it, just get use to using the mouse, instead of a controller, which surprisingly, is a little bit 
 harder to do... All you need to know is, if you want a good game, then buy this one......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahayobutmama
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing i got a few days ago and i cant stop playing! also the aliens in it arent 
 like horrifying so you can even let kids a little under seventeen watch you play. It has nine levels 
 that will last you like half an hour to an hour a piece depending on what difficulty you put it 
 on. there are actually four difficulties. The main enemies are aliens called the covenent and you 
 spend the game killing them. so i give this game two dead covenents up!!!! this is an all out amazing 
 game and DEFINATLY worth only $19.99! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Halo was never the next Timeless classic as Half-Life was but it was still a greta game for it's 
 time. However it never really did anything special apart from be one of the firsts to have a regenerating 
 shield. Many people love the storyline and the main characters but i found them quite average and 
 bland. Speaking of bland aswel the graphics were just really generic and nothing special.
  
  Halo puts you into the role of Master chief which is a pretty unimaginative name to say the 
 least. You'll have a little tutorial type thing and then isntantly put into the action on a spaceship 
 which you'll escape and land onto the halo planet. It's a really great intro but the level just 
 seems sooo generic and pre generate like some pattern you'd see. For example it looks like they've 
 just pasted the same corridor over and over again until you get to the objective. It's a shame 
 because you'll get alot of this in Halo and alot of things just seem pre generated and not much 
 effort gone into them.
  
  The animations of the game aswel seem really poor, specially on the weapon reloads which look very 
 jerky. Speaking of weapons aswel they didn't impress me and nothing stood out but what was kool 
 is you culd pickup the enemy weapons and use them aswel. The best part of the game was the driving 
 levels which at that day was still quite new but it has been done before on some PC games. However 
 today they scream below average and arn't all that great anymore, sort of like a gimmick for the 
 time. However there are some lovely looking levels like when you go underground to the covenant 
 homes which are epic and look nice but quite empty.
  
  The graphics and look of the game are really bland and generic which i'm not fond of because if 
 you look at the game it doesn't have a artistic style and you wouldn't know it was Halo if you 
 never played it.. Also the sounds are very generic too and don't really stand out, nothing here 
 was memorable and the weapon sounds were poor.
  
  The game is again like every FPS these days between 6 - 10 hours. There is a multiplayer but it's 
 not very good and quite below average compared to many games these days and even back then too.
 
  
  So i don't have alot to say about Halo other than for its day it was a great FPS but it's strange 
 how badly it's aged compared to other games like Half-Life which is even older. Still it offers 
 a satisfying experience for the &pound;5 it costs now and your chance to play what many consider 
 to be one of the best FPS ever made, mainly fromt he xbox crowd however. It just feels very generic 
 which really just makes me score it down because it has no soul or personality.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uzamiki1011
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Like legions of PC gamers, I was pretty pissed when Bungie's awesome Halo wound up coming out for 
 the Xbox instead of the PC. It had been touted as a PC game since its inception. It was a slap 
 in the face, as if the love of my life decided to shack up and wrestle sheets with Bill Gates. 
 I was dejected, betrayed, bamboozled, hoodwinked and thoroughly upset. Then I reviewed the Xbox 
 version, and suddenly all was forgiven. The game proved sensational and is still one of the best 
 first-person shooters on any system. So after four long years, we finally get to see Halo running 
 on a PC thanks to Gearbox, who took over the port job from Bungie. Even though the game doesn't 
 do for the PC what it did for the big black box, it's still a very impressive FPS offering. Intuitive 
 mouse and keyboard control coupled with a variety of online multiplayer options have earned this 
 Halo admittance through the pearly gates. But be warned: you'll need a divine system to enjoy this 
 gem to its fullest. For the most part, the story and single player gameplay remain unchanged. The 
 drama unfolds in the distant Halo galaxy, named after the huge donut-shaped object that floats 
 there. Humanity's long standing war with the amalgamated alien race known as the Covenant has brought 
 you to Halo via the Pillar of Autumn (a mini SDF1-sized battle cruiser) . Before long, you and a 
 handful of crew members find yourselves stranded on the giant ring, fighting for your lives and 
 possession of the planet itself. You assume the guise of Master Chief, a cybernetically enhanced 
 super Marine with some very handy rechargeable armor. Offering suggestions and general navigation 
 is the Pillar of Autumn's onboard computer, Cortana. This little construct has been transplanted 
 into your hi-tech helmet for easy transport and it plays a vital role in Halo's story. And that 
 story is compelling, with enough twists to keep you guessing. From the smart writing to the well-scripted 
 voice talent, Bungie was obviously serious about Halo's plan from start to finish. But this isn't 
 a book, people. Shooting hordes of ridiculously intelligent aliens and driving a variety of vehicles 
 serves as the bulk of Halo's gameplay. All the weapons from the Xbox version make a return, including 
 the machine gun, pistol, frag grenades, sniper rifle, shotgun and rocket launcher. Covenant weaponry 
 (which can be picked up and used, remember) is back as well. These are energy-based and brutal; 
 Covenant weapons more easily slice through Covenant energy shields, which obviously comes in handy. 
 The Needler and adhesive plasma grenades are two of the coolest weapons you'll find in any FPS. 
 Handling these noise-makers is made easier than ever thanks to the mouse and keyboard support, 
 arguably the way Halo is supposed to played. While the Xbox control's ease and intuitive use amazed 
 us, it pales when stacked against the tried and true WASD control scheme. You just feel like you 
 have complete control, which can never be overstated. But if a controller is what floats your boat, 
 then Halo offers full support for Direct X compatible gamepads. Or just go turn on your Xbox. There 
 are plenty of instances where being a foot soldier just won't cut it. Not to worry, because you 
 can still drive, hover and fly across many of Halo's gorgeous landscapes. Driving the Warthog buggy, 
 Scorpion tank, Ghosts and Banshees is pretty easy. Each vehicle handles differently - the Warthog 
 is the most difficult to drive due to its point-then-accelerate control, but this is made much 
 easier with the mouse and keyboard. Despite what you hear on Dr. Phil, looks matter. Halo is still 
 one of the best-looking games on the Xbox, and lucky for us the port kept in most of the goodies. 
 Reflective surfaces and photorealistic elements such as grass and skies really show off the game's 
 eye-candy. Great bump-mapping and attention to detail gloss over the fact that many of the textures 
 look a bit flat when up close. It doesn't look quite as good as the Xbox version, but after all, 
 it's a port. Catering to a countless number of system configurations can be costly. Speaking of 
 which, I hope you spent last month's salary upgrading your rig, because the system requirements 
 needed to turn up all graphical goodness is just unforgiving. On a 1.2 Ghz CPU w/ 768 MB of DDR 
 memory and a new Radeon 9800 card, the game still chugs horribly at any resolution above 1024x768 
 with moderate anti-aliasing. Things fared slightly worse using an Nvidia FX 5900, if you'd believe 
 it. Unless you have an uber-rig you'll have to scale things back quite a bit to get it running 
 smoothly. I guess the game is all about processor power. During multiplayer matches (more on that 
 in a bit) , people often stop mid-game just to offer advice to other gamers on how to properly adjust 
 their settings for smooth gameplay. Where's our tech-support kickbacks? At any rate, you'll need 
 a great rig to get this looking right, a far cry from the sweet standardization of console gaming. 
 But far from standard is the game's A. I. Your enemies are smart and legion, two things we don't 
 often see in FPS games. You'll occasionally team up with various Marine NPCs, who are a great help 
 and add a good deal of realism to the mix. They'll split up, charge, grab their own vehicles, ride 
 shotgun or man Warthog gun turrets. And most importantly, they'll accurately cover your behind. 
 Plus, their banter is fitting, varied and often comical. However, a keen battle sense is required 
 when dealing with the Covenant warriors, who are still formidable adversaries. They too will split 
 up and try to flank you. They will often seek cover, charging or retreating depending on the odds 
 of survival. Some of them have impenetrable shields, some have cloaking devices (ala the Predator) , 
 some have swords and many have at least two of the three. The game's A. I. really comes into play 
 when you raise the difficulty settings. I have yet to play another FPS this realistically challenging. 
 The hardest setting is a love/hate relationship of frustration and sheer enjoyment. I heartily 
 recommend it. In our review of the Xbox version, we didn't really get into Halo's level design. 
 The seamless indoor/outdoor environments are fantastic, but they do repeat a lot. You'll cover 
 the same ground often, which at times gets repetitive. The one area where Halo PC really differs 
 from its Xbox brother is its online multiplayer support for up to 16 players. Along with the familiar 
 maps from the Xbox version, six new multiplayer maps are here for a total of fifteen. Games include 
 Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Last Man Standing, Race, King of the Hill and Oddball, all of which 
 (except Oddball) can be played as Team games if you desire. In Oddball, one character must hold 
 a skull for a given amount of time while everyone goes crazy trying to take him down. You can't 
 fire a weapon, but the skull does devastating melee damage. Capture the Flag and the Races are 
 easily the most fun. To spice things up, Gearbox has included some exclusive online content for 
 the PC version. You can now choose between the normal Warthog and a black version fitted with a 
 rear-mounted rocket launcher. Two new weapons are here as well: the Covenant fuel-rod cannon and 
 a flamethrower. The fuel-rod fires consecutive plasma blasts in an arc and boasts a speedy re-fire 
 rate, while the flamethrower is, well, a flamethrower. Rounding out the new bits is the ability 
 to add the Covenant Banshees to just about any multiplayer map for added strategy and fun. However, 
 after all these years you still can't play as the aliens in the online multiplayer, which is the 
 way Halo was originally advertised so many years ago. Red and blue versions of the exact same character 
 models are a bit silly considering the inherent warring sides already built into the game. Color-coded 
 Marines fighting each other seems more like a watered-down training simulation than a full-fledged 
 war between factions. The multiplayer modes also feel a little too simplistic considering the potential. 
 Halo was originally designed as a Tribes-esque game featuring a compelling mix of team play and 
 mission-based multiplayer. This changed when it moved to the Xbox, but I really hoped they would 
 have rethought it for the PC version. Instead, it simply feels like just a port of the Xbox version 
 rather than the phantasmagoric PC game we have all been waiting for. Plus, the super-cool co-operative 
 mode is grossly absent from this installment. It's a real bummer since that was one of the best 
 ways to play through the original, and the multiplayer doesn't entirely make up for the omission. 
 But there are still countless hours of fun to be had with Halo. If you couldn't stomach the control 
 pad and the lack of online support (or Xbox itself) really turned you away from the Xbox version, 
 then this Halo is sure to please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joser15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Same as Xbox but with the twist of using a mouse and keyboard. I like this better than the xbox 
 version just cuz how different using Computer than an xbox and it seems way harder than the xbox 
 and just getting use to the thing takes while.....
  on my third time i played i got the controls..... it alot of differences just because of the controls 
 u use it was the first First person shooter game i got for the Computer.. it was worth those twenty 
 buck i spent.
  if u havent tried the PC version, u should. i loved this game so much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrac_Warrior
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Ah Halo, one of the most accliamed FPS of the modern era. It's easy to see why. The story is gripping 
 and intense which will keep you going fron the first cutscene, The levels are long and have plenty 
 of checkpoints so if you die you won't have to go all the way back to the beginning. It's not as 
 complex in design as other shooters but the way you can pick-up and play in halo is brilliant. 
 It won't be long at all till your scoring plenty of kills online or sniping Covenant miles away 
 in the dark.
  
  The vehicles are great, The speedy Warthog, the Banshee, the ghost and my favourite the scorpion. 
 It's weird how they are never damaged when you are but it's no bad thing. The Vehicles are not 
 overpowered but can still deliver a good amount of damage however people can still take you out 
 without huge diffulcity. Halo's soundtrack is perfect and definately one (or if not) the best in 
 the modern gaming. Bungie studios won praise by many critics and it's easy to see why. After 4 
 years the game is still buzzing online, 16 players in a server isn't much compared to some FPS 
 Shooters but the game modes and fun you will have online makes you forget this. With online there 
 is only one gripe and that's players using aim-bots which has always been a problem in FPS. These 
 aim-bots do ruin an online game and that's a shame.
  
  With halo now easy to buy from &pound;5 to &pound;10 it's worth playing if your a PC Gamer. It's 
 still got it after all this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Right up front let me say that this is the first time Ive played Halo. Im told by those in the 
 know that a version was released previously on one of those console thingies, and that it was considered, 
 in those quarters, to be the **** Whatever its storied past, Halos blend of entertaining storyline, 
 magnificent combat sequences, and unadulterated visceral appeal is as satisfying as a bag of chips 
 when the munchies hit.
  
  Intergalactic space-marine sagas are nothing new in games, but this story of a strange ringworld 
 and the aggressive alien Covenant is extremely well-constructed and -paced. As the marine Master 
 Chief, youre thawed out of cryogenic sleep to help avert a potential disaster for humanity as 
 the Covenant seek to uncover the mystery of the halo  and youve got to beat them to it.
  
  Youre not given a weapon for the first few minutes, which is quite unnerving when marines 
 aboard your ship are holding off a ferocious Covenant attack and you have to dodge plasma shards 
 rather than get your hands dirty.
  
  That comes in time, however. And how.
  
  Halos combat is stunning. In the indoor environments, bland and detail-lite corridors can still 
 be smeared with hundreds of bullet holes, grenade scorch marks, and swathes of alien blood splattered 
 willy-nilly. Youll craft vistas of utter destruction, making you proud to be human and relieved 
 to have lived through it.
  
  But its the outdoor areas  roughly 25 percent of the games 20-plus hours of playtime  that 
 host the kind of epic confrontations that youll tell your buddies about. Many outdoor encounters 
 feature your marine colleagues as friendly AI support. Through forests, canyons, swamps, and colorful 
 (even beautiful) fields more suited to vacationing than alien onslaught, youll grab any weapon 
 you can find and lay the smack down.
  
  Better yet, to cover the large expanses of ground in these areas, you get to commandeer some very 
 cool vehicles. The ATV Warthog has space for one AI marine to ride shotgun while you drive and 
 another to man the mounted gun on the back. The slip-sliding control of the Warthog may take a 
 little practice, but soon enough youll be leaving a trail of roadkill in your wake, and if youve 
 kept your pals alive, theyll handle themselves effectively in the other seats.
  
  For one fleeting level, youll also drive a Scorpion tank that gives you control of the powerful 
 main gun plus an erratic machine gun (the main gun fired with the left mouse button, the machine 
 gun with the right  its easy to pick up) . Again, squadmates can join in, jumping onto the sides 
 of the tank and picking off targets at will. Youll also take to the skies in the zippy Ghost and 
 powerful Banshee  aerial vehicles that are not only plain cool to futz around with, but which 
 also open up some entertaining level design, with you even flying hundreds of feet in the air to 
 reach new objectives.
  
  Cortada, your in-helmet holographic helper, provides directions and makes it almost impossible 
 to get lost. Inside the various structures, accessible doors are always conveniently bordered in 
 white or green, funneling your forward progress.
  
  My major criticism of Halo is in the interior areas. Those bland wall details become so much more 
 apparent when the layouts of the buildings are repeated several times. Door, corridor, go left, 
 go right. Repeat. Repeat again... and again... and again. This repetition is in stark contrast to 
 the varied, stylish outdoor segments; its a true relief when an in-engine cut-scene tells you 
 that youll be fighting outside.
  
  Halo is never short on surprises. A key turning point in the middle of the game (the arrival of 
 The Flood) has sufficient impact to change your whole tactical approach to mass combat situations 
  suddenly enemies are appearing out of holes in the walls, floors, anywhere.
  
  The style of battle changes throughout. Sometimes ammo conservation is a serious consideration, 
 given that you can carry only two weapons at a time, though you can pick up the dropped arsenal 
 of any creature. In such cases, the game rewards a more thoughtful approach. Other times youll 
 be packing the biggest weapons
  you can find, slinging every grenade you pick up and barely releasing your trigger finger as you 
 watch the screen sizzle with glorious explosions.
  
  Halo does look amazing for the most part. I had no framerate issues at all on either a 2.4GHz machine 
 with a GeForce3 card or a 2.0GHz system with a RADEON 9700 card, although the image quality was 
 startlingly better with the RADEON, yielding better-blended colors and crisper textures. While 
 Ive dissed the environment textures, the detail on the characters is absolutely astonishing. On 
 numerous occasions youll get too close, forcing a reload of your last checkpoint since the game 
 lacks a save-anywhere option (which brought me to vitriolic outbursts at least twice) . But even 
 as youre dying, youll pause to marvel at just how brilliantly disgusting the alien design is.
 
  
  And youll stick with this game to the end. The conclusion  a timed countdown level thats perfectly 
 executed  is one of the most entertaining thrill rides Ive played.
  
  Once youre done with the single-player campaign, give the multiplayer modes a whirl. Over 500 
 servers were already thriving at press time. While the gameplay wont offer anything that Battlefield 
 1942 veterans havent already seen, the CTF match-ups on some levels are fantastic in their simplicity. 
 Blood Gulch is a straightforward map thats tremendous fun, as is Timberland. Some of the others 
 tend to be a little too big, even for 16 players, although the mix of flying Banshees, snipers, 
 manned gun turrets, and fresh game modes makes the multiplayer bouts well worth the time investment.
 
  
  Halo delivers on numerous levels. Some people have reported hardware issues, and I did experience 
 a couple of hard locks on my RADEON-equipped system. I cant really recommend this game for those 
 with PCs meeting the minimum system specs: if you have to toggle off every visual treat, it does 
 remove a fair amount from the experience. But if youve got the juice, youll get a real kick out 
 of piloting Master Chief to galactic glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperMelbourne
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : It's a first person shooter that requires little skill. The storyline is linear, the 
 actual shooting of the guns requires little skill, aim, shoot, doesnt matter if you just hit an 
 arm, it'll kill most guys regardless. So yes, you start out aboard your ship which is about to 
 be destroyed and your mission is pretty much to get off without being killed, no time limit however. 
 You'll find it's a pretty cool start as your AI teammates will help you destroy the aliens as you 
 search for a way off. This leads to you crash landing on Halo and trying to unravel the secret 
 behind the mysterious planet. This also leads to a very repetitive game where you see similar level 
 designs, the same monsters, the same everything. You'll get no new cool weapons, the human standard 
 shotgun is the best weapon throughout the game. You'll keep doing similar chores over and over 
 and to be honest it felt like a chore finishing the game.
  
  You also get to drive vehicles but in all honestly, the vehicles are not that good with perhaps 
 the exception going to the alien banshee, a flying machine with a dread like sound as it flies, 
 probably the best feature in this game.
  
  The cut scenes are decent enough, so you get some reward for finishing a level. The sound is excellent, 
 the value of this game is about right, worth about a tenner, no more.
  
  Summary: Ordinary weapons and vehicles and repetitive gameplay make this a so so shooter. I played 
 Vampire the Masquerade recently, while that is a RPG, the shooter element in that game blows this 
 game out of the water, which doesn't say a lot for halo unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  There's no denying that Halo was one of the best games that came out back in 2001 on the XBOX, 
 but in 2007 the game is still an enjoyable ride but a few things keeps it back to reach eternal 
 greatness. Let's start with the good stuff, Halo gives us a lengthy enjoyable single-player campaign 
 with a excellent story on top of it. The in-game cut-scenes are really great and sets you up nicely 
 to continue on with the objectives. Master Chief is a cool character and a welcome addition to 
 the video hall of fame in the near future. Pretty much all the weapons are fun to use and packs 
 a punch... some of the them are better then others for certain situations but all in all they are 
 all great! The sound and music is above average, the music is low-key but picks ups whenever you 
 reach a certain location of objectives.
  
  Another thing that Halo does very well is adding different kinds of vehicles that all will serve 
 their purpose during the course of the game. Once you get used to the loose controls you'll be 
 just fine... remember this ain't a driving simulator. The enemies you'll face do lack in variation 
 until the Flood comes into play, but the excellent AI will make the fire fights refreshing every 
 time. The AI of the marines that tag along once in a while is also excellent.
  
  The graphics are very good considering this is a 2003 PC port of a 2001 XBOX game. The thing that 
 holds the game back is the indoor level designs. Certain sections of a particular level are copy/pasted 
 to a great degree. A lot of the times I was wondering if I was going in circles (The Library level) . 
 If the game didn't have an excellent story and great combat, I would of quit the game (probably 
 in the middle of the Library level) . To the contrary, the outdoor levels are nice.
  
  In retrospect :
  
  THE GOOD
  ----------------
  Great Combat and Weapons - Drivable Vehicles 
 are great - Excellent story - Outdoor levels are great - Good AI - A great Port
  
  THE BAD
  --------------
  Bad indoor level design - Not much variety in enemies until later 
 stages - Music is not memorable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  You hear it all the time... Halo this and Halo that. Now with the upcoming release of Halo 3, the 
 end of the trilogy, we have even more talk and more buzz. What is the big deal and how did it all 
 start? Well it started with this game, though it began with the Xbox version which turned out to 
 be a wonderfully fun game. The PC version does its best to take that a step further.
  
  The story stays just as intact as the original version, and it isn't bad. It is a nice little sci-fi 
 story that is simple but just complex enough to keep you interested as you run through the campaign. 
 The story doesn't become more deep until Halo 2, but really this was a great way to start off and 
 shouldn't have been done another way. It introduces the characters, the conflict between aliens 
 and humans and introduces the concept of the Halo systems. I will admit that the game sometimes 
 doesn't do very well with transitions (the novel Halo: The Flood clears that up better, but you 
 shouldn't have to read a novel to fully enjoy a game) , but that is ok because the transitions are 
 slow points that a person wants little of in an action/fps.
  
  Speaking of which, the action is great. It starts off with an invasion are your starship, then 
 turns into an all out war where you need to do your best to help your comrades while accomplishing 
 a mission at the same time. With the very limited enemy types and the major lack of bosses, this 
 game somehow manages to hold the players attention by throwing at him various situations and environments. 
 This gets the job done and allows you to be a bit more forgiving of the lack of enemy types. At 
 least there is a decent selection of weapons, and the ability to only carry two at a time adds 
 a level of strategy that most FPS games don't require. It forces you to think on your feet. Especially 
 with the later levels where you will be attacked by an endless barrage of enemies, it is important 
 to know which weapons to have and when to use them. I will tell you right now, that the final part 
 of the last level has to be one of the most exciting and exhiliraing sequences I have played through 
 in an FPS. In fact the whole last level was just exceptionally fun.
  
  There are also a decent variety of vehicles to use throughout the game...4 that I can think of 
 at the moment. They each control great and have unique properties. That brings me to the controls. 
 This game is clearly meant for a controller, as you will feel with the slightly clunky controls 
 with the mouse and keyboard, but overall, with the simple controls, it is very easy to get used 
 to the game.
  
  As far as the game's looks... well they are pretty good, but a little dated for 2003. The Xbox game 
 looked beautiful for its time, but the 2-year late PC port falls a little short. I am not saying 
 the game looks horrible. It has great artistic direction and the variety of environments are great, 
 it just lacks the graphical 'oomph' that newer games have. Still, the resolution is pretty good 
 and you don't see many blurry textures which is nice. There are some little effects I noticed that 
 were in the Xbox version but weren't in the PC version, and vice versa. It could just be my video 
 card, but considering my video card can play Quake 4 at max settings without any drop in framerate, 
 I doubt that is the issue. At least the game is extremely scaleable in quality, allowing a wider 
 variety of players to enjoy the game.
  
  The sound is absolutely great though. The sound effects of each weapon are very well done, the 
 voice acting ranges from decent to wonderful, and the ambience and other sound effects are just 
 great. Add to that a beautiful musical score that changes dynamically based on the situation, and 
 you have a winner in the sound department.
  
  The last, and most noteable thing about Halo on the PC is its multiplayer. The extremely fun co-op 
 from the Xbox version is unfortunately missing, which is very sad because of how fun it always 
 was. Bungie didn't want to make people sad though, so they made up for it with an extremely beefed-up 
 multiplayer. They included a handful of new maps (all of which are great) , a map editor, two new 
 weapons for multiplayer (the fuel rod cannon which is the Covenent rocket launcher, and the flamethrower) , 
 and even a new vehicle type (a Warthog with a rocket launcher mounted on it instead of a minigun) . 
 As if this weren't enough for you to forgive them for keeping the co-op out, there is more. The 
 multiplayer is 100% online capable. That means unlike the Xbox version, you can play this game 
 with anybody around the world. THAT is what makes this game worth the purchase, and is a smart 
 move as far as I am concerned. You want co-op? Get the Xbox version. You want online multiplayer? 
 Get the PC version. The online multiplayer always ran smoothly for me. I used to be able to play 
 with up to 4 people on my dial-up and now with my dsl I can play with 16 players and still have 
 no lag.
  
  If you own the Xbox version, ask yourself if you would really make use of the online multiplayer 
 when Halo 2 is already out. If you don't own and have not played this game, then you owe it to 
 yourself to purchase this. I would personally suggest the PC version because it has a longer lasting 
 value thanks to online multiplayer, not to mention that most new computers can play it just fine.
 
  
  As I said before, this game doesn't add much new to the FPS genre, but it sure does take the old 
 and make it fun all over again. If you enjoy FPS games, action games or are open to anything, don't 
 hesitate and just buy this game. If you absolutely despise action or FPS games, then avoid of course, 
 but there aren't many of those people around. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0 (9/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HandstaKingame
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Back when the xbox was still fairly new, a little game called Halo: Combat Evolved started a revoloution 
 in video game history. Now a well deserved port of this game has made its way to the PC. Since 
 I loved Halo for xbox and didn't have an xbox of my own yet I naturally got the PC version, which 
 in my opinion lives up to and surpasses the xbox version. With the same gripping single player 
 mode this game could still hold its own without a multiplayer mode. But this game DOES have a multiplayer 
 mode like the xbox version (dropping the co-op mode of course) , and adding online gaming capabilities, 
 never before seen mutiplayer maps, and more easier aiming with the mouse over a thumbstick. This 
 game is definetely worth purchase and if you're trying to decide between the xbox version or this 
 version choose the pc version (that is if you have a decent graphic card (256 mb for best results) and 
 a decently fast computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I've tried, honestly i've tried to enjoy this game. But it just get's so tiresome after the first 
 hour. The same wacky little red aliens, the same mean blue ones, guns run out of amo too quickly 
 and 90% of the time you're using the basic laser handgun.
  
  It's a repetitious Single Player Experience. Repetition even bleeds over into the areas you explore; 
 the same damn waterfall that was georgous to look at the first time, is annoying the next; the 
 jeeps were fun at first, but finally settled on frustrating because of the way they handled, so 
 slippery.
  
  I did find it easier to play on the PC than the Xbox, with what using the mouse and all. I'm not 
 even going to try Halo 2, I already bought into the hype, even 2 freaking years after the first 
 one, no updated graphics, still looks like ugly 16-bit textures. I've played better games in between 
 the release for Xbox and the PC, so maybe it just took too long to be released for the PC. I don't 
 know why it took so long, nothing's changed, not even the graphics.
  
  Gameplay: Exciting for the first 20 minutes or so, but very quickly gets repetitious and boring.
 
  
  Sound: Above average sounds, booms and gunshots sound really good. Just as well as they sounded 
 on the Xbox.
  
  Graphics: Low-res 16-bit textures are so last decade.
  
  Bottom Line: I don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan678
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  I cant understand all the hype and good reviews about this game, its a first person shooter and 
 a pretty average one at that. the best shooter on the xbox is farcry instincts, it has better graphics 
 and gameplay than halo.
  
  overall im disspaointed with halo as i had read so many reviews gving it 9/10 or 10/10 and i dont 
 see why, you cant give this such a high rating beacuse that would put it in the same category as 
 games such as geras of war and the gta series, and in my opinion halo doesnt have anything on those 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Consequence
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a sci-fi FPS adventure, which pits you the Master Chief against various enemies called 
 The Covenant. First of all, when I first played Halo it was on Xbox, it was a fun game and was 
 pretty fun in multiplayer, but I was expecting a lot more. From what I had heard it was this awe-inspiring 
 experience that was highly addictive. However, from what I've played, both on Xbox and on PC, it's 
 just not that great. Their are only a few weapons, and are fun to use (with the exception of the 
 plasma pistol) . However I find it hard to believe that technology
  has not progressed from projectile weapons since they have giant space ships and energy shields. 
 This aside, the gameplay is quite entertaining, and though the AI isn't the greatest, it's more 
 akin to Call of Duty that to say... Black Hawk Down?
  
  Now on to graphics and sound. The graphics look good even on medium settings but down on low it 
 gets real blurry. The Chief is animated well, and is very detailed. The blood is unrealistic, as 
 hitting an Elite repeatedly and then nading him leaves a big pool of blue blood. The weapons sound 
 nice and punchy, and the plasma guns sound good as well Sometimes you can even hear one of the 
 little ones jabber when a plasma grenade is attached to it and then scream when it dies.
  
  The story is the generic, 'OMG super advanced aliens want to kill us!!!', but it kicks up to 'The 
 super advanced aliens uncovered some ancient unspeakable evil!!!' about halfway through and it's 
 fairly short as well. It's not really anything thought-provoking or original, although it hasn't 
 been overused like certain others generic stories. Overall, it's an entertaining game, but has 
 been waaaaaaay over hyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Halo is one of the greatest console shooters of all time, ranking up there with Goldeneye 007. 
 The problem with this is that pc shooters are alot faster paced and a based around the keyboard 
 and mouse. Sadly i believe that bungie intended for halo for pc to convice everyone to buy a gamepad. 
 The game feels alot more sluggish on pc comparing it to unreal and quake. The graphics and sound 
 have been upgraded to match your pc of course, but if your a pc gamer, or have already played it 
 for xbox, id stick with the console. I found it a letter easier to play on xbox, because the bullets 
 actually are a little more accurate than on pc. When shooting with the pistol on pc, it actually 
 seems to shoot around the reticle, instead of where you aim. The game just doesnt seem to keep 
 up with the hardware its running on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved, or simply Halo, is a first-person shooter video game developed by Bungie 
 Studios, and the first installment of the Halo trilogy. It was released on November 15, 2001 as 
 a launch title for the Xbox, and is considered that a platform.
  With more than five million copies sold , Halo is second only to its sequel, Halo 2, in sales for 
 the Xbox.
  
  Widely considered to be one of the best, and most influential, first-person shooters on a game 
 console, Halo's acclaim rivals that of GoldenEye 007 and Half-Life.
  
  In the game, the player assumes the role of the Master Chief, a SPARTAN super-soldier with MJOLNIR 
 battle armor. He is accompanied by Cortana, an artificial intelligence who occupies the Master 
 Chief's neural implant. Players battle various types of aliens on foot or in vehicles as they attempt 
 to uncover the secrets of the Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajh20
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  
  is amazing game that i never forget in my life. every one know who are involved in the gaming industry. 
 Microsoft game studios best FPS game is halo.
  
  the game play is really grate. but it is little easy to play. every one can play. the graphics 
 are amazing i ever seen before like FPS game in my life. the aliens are funny and interest to play. 
 the guns are good. the Vachel are fantastic. maps are sup erp. if you sit to play halo you did't 
 like to move from it. the sound are sup erp.
  
  the multi player of halo is better than the single player campaign. the multi player gaming of 
 halo is really amazing.
  
  you must buy this game....................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davekirchner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Whenever you can take a console FPS and adapt it to the PC, you automatically improve it in at 
 least one way- the control setup. Keyboard/Mouse play is much more satisfying than traditional 
 console gamepads; as any other PC player can attest. The hard part is not losing anything in the 
 translation which detracts from the game. Granted, the lack of co-op play hurts the presentation 
 a bit, as this mode was very enjoyable. But assuming you're like me and have played the single-player 
 campaign to death, multi-player is where it's at. And the PC version has all of the fun of the 
 console deathmatch mode, plus a few new vehicles, weapons, maps, and the ability to scale the matches 
 dependent on the number of players you have. Yes, the XBOX could do LAN mode, but how often can 
 you get multiple XBOXes, TV's, and enough people to make it worthwhile? Everybody and their dog 
 has a PC already, and you can just log in to the server and bang: you're in the game blasting your 
 friends with shotguns, rocket launchers and flamethrowers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is simply the most amazing first person shooter I have ever played. I don't really play 
 the story mode, so I'll review the multiplayer aspect of this game.
  
  Gameplay: This game is the best of the best, it's super fun and always has me coming back for more 
 at least once a day.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good, not the best but still amazing.
  
  Sound: The sound 
 in this game is great, you can hear bullets firing, people walking, and the sound of vehicles. 
 Not beautiful sound, but it's effective.
  
  Value: Since it's $20, it's a great game for the price!
  
  This game is definately a buy if 
 you like First Person Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The good: Amazing online mulitplayer'nice graphics'very great story line'the PC version has loads 
 more cars guns and more!'gameplay is very fast and exciteing'shadows and lighting effects can be 
 amazing at times'starting you own server is free and it takes 5 minutes'it's old so it's fairly 
 cheap
  
  The bad: For some reason the banchis and ghost don't have the NOS'if you already finished the game 
 on XBOX a million times the online play may only apeal to you'can't save gamming friends'can't 
 put servers in a Favourates section 
  
  I downloaded this game back in 2003 diden't realy like it dumbed it then for chirstmas that same 
 year i got a XBOX pack and halo came with it and then i realisd just how fun it was i played with 
 all my bros and cousons for hours and i diden't realy think about online until halo 2 came out 
 but halo for PC was no wear to be found but last April i found it for 30 bucks at EB games and 
 without hesatation i got it before i even looked into Single player i wen't stragh to options and 
 put every thign on high and what did u know when i was playing online it barly dropped from 60 
 FPS in a pretty crowded area! the cars are very fun and easy to use in online play but that tanks 
 just make it TO easy and theres a few extra levels and depending on what server u are on it may 
 get fun or booring so if you wan't to play halo online but can't afford LIVE or just wanna relive 
 the halo single players get this game you will enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tydus121212
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Halo is really good and addicting. The single player campaign is over 100s of hours loads of fun. 
 The online play is just awesome it's so good that I can't even describe it. Although I don't have 
 this game on the XBOX I think the PC version is much better. The Graphics of Halo is really good 
 for a game in 2003, it makes me feel like I am playing a game that just came out. I think this 
 game is worth every penny I used on it, and by the way this was only 20 bucks. I don't know about 
 Halo 2 on the PC but I think you should try out this Halo first. Hope my Review helped. OVERALL 
 8.4 GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Buttery smooth gameplay. What else is there to say?
  
  Graphics: The graphics at the time were absolutely astounding and with a decent PC you can make 
 it look even better than it did originally.
  
  Sound: Good music, voice acting, and nice gunshots.
  
  Value: A decent length campaign and 
 a few more maps for online multiplayer help keep the action going. Tilt: It is a great game that 
 will keep you playing it for hours on end.
  
  PS: DL the Halo Custom Edition mod. Then DL the Custom Map Team's Singleplayer campaign. It is 
 available on filefront. com. You can use Halo2 weapons with silencers and GLs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Graphics weren't top of the line when Halo hit the PC in 2003, and now they already seem awfully 
 dated compared to recent PC shooters. But if you can get over this you can still enjoy the frantic 
 combat and decent story that Halo offers. You'll be playing as the Master Chief, a futuristic super 
 soldier with an armor that has automatically recharging shield, who can carry two weapons at a 
 time, and has to save the mankind from an alien race.
  
  Let's start with the good, Halo's story is quite interesting for a FPS, it starts off a bit slowly 
 but picks off when you progress in the game. The first time around I quit playing Halo before it 
 really got good but decided to give it a second chance, and I'm glad I did. Tho the story isn't 
 that extraordinary compared to some RPGs or space sims, but it still beats those seen in majority 
 of first person shooters and provides for a great excuse for causing some mayhem. You'll be using 
 many different vehicles from tanks to hovercraft, and a wide array of weapons from futuristic alien 
 energy weapons to more traditional human pistols and shotguns.
  
  Combat is also mostly the way it should be, it's a bit strange that in Halo all the weapons are 
 so effective, I'm not sure if I like it or not, but it does mean that you can use variety of weapons 
 throughout the game without hindering your progress. Enemy AI is very good for a game this old, 
 the enemies duck and take cover, and throw grenades which makes the combat quite enjoyable even 
 on the lower difficulties. And the AI team-mates also do their job by getting on the gunner position 
 in the vehicles etc.
  
  The combat isn't perfect tho, the crosshair is the size of a small house and the enemies come in 
 the same formations time after time, but at least they don't seem to be respawning or cheating 
 in any other way. Also some physics are a bit poor, maybe it's just the low gravity in the Halo 
 ring, but when jumping it feels like the Master Chief is floating in the air, and the Warthog (one 
 of the vehicles) seems like it's sliding on ice all the time.
  
  My biggest complaints come from the poor level design and the enemies. In the very beginning of 
 the game I was a bit dissapointed by some of the the aliens; they look, sound, and behave like.... Pokemon! 
 It just hurt the atmosphere when the supersoldier of the future is saving the humanity .. from Pokemon... 
 Well I got over this since I don't like Pokemon so it's relatively satisfying to get the chance 
 to blast them in the face with a shotgun. Other enemies early in the game are pretty colorful too 
 and thus not very intimidating. And then the level design... Even tho you'll be fighting enemies 
 from Alien ships to outdoors and buildings, some of the levels were just cheaply made by copy pasting 
 the same room over and over again. For e. g. The Library level you'll follow your guide through 
 a level in this large building enemies swarming from everywhere, it's all very hectic and entertaining, 
 but then you come to a big door and your guide tells you that this is the first of 10 doors... 
 And yes indeed, you will basically repeat the same level 10 times while the same enemies come from 
 the same predictable places with the same predictable tactics. And it's not the only level using 
 copy paste design, this is even more annoying since the game is relatively short, I passed the 
 SP campaign in less than 10 hours, and lots of this time was spend in the copy paste levels. And 
 when the levels aren't very detailed, mostly just grey or brown hallways with poor textures, there's 
 a big chance you'll get bored before finishing the game.
  
  Despite the problems I can recommend this game to most players, the combat holds up to current 
 shooters, you can quickly toss grenades and hit enemies with your weapon, AI is good and as such 
 creates some very exciting moments. Add a solid story and you've got a good game wort playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  HALO (PC)
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Gameplay 7/10
  - Story 2/5
  - Graphics 3/5
  - Sound 2/5
  - Effort/Innovation 2/5
  - Replay Value 0/0
  
  - Overall 
 16/30 or 5.3/10
  - Monetary Value $15
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY : 7/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Good: Fast paced with lots and lots of enemies to obliterate and plenty of guns and ammo to 
 do it with. The story mode is executed well and the game progresses in such a way that you always 
 know what your next objective is. I encountered only 1 bug (enemy froze mid air) but it was nothing 
 important nor did it interfere with the gameplay. You get to control 3 different vehicles at various 
 times including an off-road vehicle, a pod racer type vehicle and a flying vehicle. All of them 
 are fun and are easy to control on the PC but I have heard that they are a nightmare on the console.
 
  
  The Bad: There is very little variation in everything.
  - Very few guns to select from. All in all I think there were 8 guns altogether as I played through 
 the single player game. They included a machine gun (with laser equivalent) , handgun (with laser 
 equivalent) , missile launcher, sniper rifle, shotgun, &amp; needler homing gun. Nothing interesting 
 about any of them really and they were all fairly common throughout the game. The only unique weapon 
 is of course the needler but it was somewhat weak except when used against you since the spines 
 home in on their targets albeit slowly.
  - Very few enemy variations. The entire enemy lineup is made up of about 7 models not including 
 vehicles piloted by the AI which where very few. These models are then re-colored and retextured 
 to create variations and even those were lacking. I got bored of killing the same mindless enemies 
 throughout the entire game.
  - Very few unique areas. Most of the game is explored in about 5 hours of gameplay, the rest of 
 the time you simply go back and forth to complete your objective. Many of the areas were copied 
 over several times making the game seem even smaller than it already was. Seeing the same places 
 over and over got extremely boring for me.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  STORY : 2/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  You find a big circular thing around a planet and you are competing against an enemy race to explore 
 and understand the structure. Along the way you learn a few things about the structure and realize 
 that you will have to destroy it. The story is fairly weak. Characterization is none existent for 
 the most part and the plot is very linear. You play as the Master Chief, a super soldier with 
 a seemingly unique shield regenerating armor. Your armor has an AI interface and a ships AI becomes 
 your partner on your missions. Many points about the events are not explained in the game and some 
 events didnt make sense, in the way that everyone seemed a bit to dumb. Overall, somewhat boring 
 and un-interesting but I have seen worse.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS : 3/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Considering Half Life 2 was released only about 1 year later with significantly better graphics, 
 the quality of this game was mediocre upon release. The character models were fairly disappointing 
 but the vehicles and environments looked good. Water and liquids looked horrible in my opinion 
 especially those coolant ponds. Please note that despite the shortcomings of the graphics I actually 
 felt they were sufficient for the gameplay and they didnt really detract me from playing. I will 
 give this an average score.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND : 2/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I though the music was good in the game. I didnt get annoyed at any point. The voice acting was 
 good for what little of it there was. Sound effects were about as good as any other games. The 
 enemy grunts got old since they all sound exactly the same.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; INNOVATION 2/5
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  Given how most of the game was just repeated over and over and that there is very little variation 
 in enemy and weapon I will have to give Halo a below average score. There just wasnt enough meat 
 in this game.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL : 5.3/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  An ok 
 1st person shooter. Certainly nothing legendary nor memorable but it does hold its own especially 
 when it was released but it couldnt compete with anything that came out within the next year of 
 its release. Even the older Half Life was a better game in almost every way imaginable save for 
 the vehicles of course.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE 0/0
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I cannot comment on the multiplayer aspect of 1st person shooters. I simply do not enjoy the twitch 
 style gameplay they offers against.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  $15. This game should have been sold at a bargain price to PC owners. It was already old when 
 it was released on the PC and it just isnt very good compared to other games even during its time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hckiller
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome i picked it up on release and played it every day.
  The A. I is great and gets smarter if u crank up to legendary.
  The main reason everyone wants 
 to play it is the multi-player mode.
  It&acute; s fun addictive and when a match is over u want more.
  All in all an older game but 
 worth playing on the PC.
  The mouse and keyboard configuration is great u can edit it all to wat u want no problems.
  U 
 can also play it with a game pad if u want.
  But the real PC players use the mouse and keyboard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whtddusy517
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, the multiplayer is really fun. But, online it flat out sucks. With groups of people 
 you actually know is where it gets good. Of course, graphics are dated, I'm sure at one point they 
 looked amazing. The only time they actually bug me is when you can see a persons face, or the blood. 
 Some animatons are pretty crappy, but from when it came out, once again it must have been pretty 
 amazing. I won't even go into the single player. Personally I hate it. It took me a month just 
 to beat the first level because I got so bored of it, and after a whole year of owning it I have 
 only gotten to the third level. Sad I know, but it just doesn't rank up with any of the new FPS's 
 that are out now a days. It's slow and repititive and it doesn't give you that urge of hey i want 
 to go kick some covenant ass! . It's more along the lines of, oh theres some bad guys, might as 
 well kill them so I can go fight the next swarm to beat this damn level, only to find out that 
 you got a long way to go. Personally I like fast paced, and Halo is well.. slugish.
  
  The sound is good, when there is sound of course. I found myself wandering around with almost no 
 noise, and then during fights its just screaming midget aliens and occasional gunfire. Boring.
 
  
  Remember, this is all my opinion. To put it in a sentence, why this game gets so much rave confuses 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BonzaiiC
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Don't believe all of the hype. Halo is a the most over-rated game for the following reasons:
  
  Lack of weapons.
  Lack of the types of enemies you battle.
  Lack of a good story; the story 
 was a little generic.
  Lack of character. In other words, I didn't much care for the character I was playing. That would 
 never happen in the Metal Gear Solid series (except for maybe Raiden) .
  Lack of any fun. You're doing the same thing, but in different backgrounds.
  
  The only good 
 things about this game are the sound and the graphics. I really don't know why everyone likes this 
 game, because I found it really disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtimegamer413
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Halo. Sounds good doesn't it? Just that word. Ha...... Halo. This game, is one of the best first 
 person shooters ever created. Its not too hard for newbies of fps and its not too easy for hardcore 
 shooter fans. Halo is definitely not to be missed by anyone. It has a great storyline and should 
 be able to grab peoples attention right away. The gameplay couldn't be any more smoother. Graphics 
 are amazing and are pretty to look at. For the sound, its perfect. The first time I heard an alien 
 coming..... it was epic. So, I recommend picking this game up ASAP. Also, since Halo has been out 
 for awhile, try looking in your bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for the first with a friend shortly after it came out for the XBox. Despite 
 the fact that my friend threw me, an GC fanboy who was utterly inexperienced with the XBox, into 
 co-op legendary mode, it was still an awesome experience. In the last few years I've quickly added 
 the title PC fanboy to my repetoir, and so picked up the appropriate version. Even on my laptop, 
 the controls were beautifully fluid, which I appreciated greatly. The graphics, although a little 
 outdated, are awesome, and the storyline is absolutely riveting. Sadly, I've yet to try the multi-player 
 option for PC, but I've done extensive multi player action for both 1 and 2 on the XBox, so I'm 
 sure it'd be equally as enjoyable. For the few unfortunate cave dwellers who haven't played this 
 game, find a way. You'll thank yourself for it later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably known as one of the best FPS video games of all time and that is because 
 it has a very good storyline and also some pretty good weapons too.
  
  The storyline is pretty decent and I enjoy going around and shooting aliens... the mouse controls 
 are also very great too, you can shoot with the left, throw a grenade with the right, and aim (if 
 you're using a sniper) with the middle clicker, although I prefer pressing z to zoom in.
  
  Its pretty easy to get used to the controls on the game, depends how you play PC games... I find 
 it pretty easy however, just move with w, a, s, d... shoot and throw a grenade with the mouse buttons, 
 etc... learning curve is easy
  
  The graphics are really amazing... since this is on PC of course, its better than the xbox version... the 
 environments and cutscenes are on point.
  
  You also get online play on Halo and mostly it was the reason why I got the game to begin with... I 
 wanted a very fun online FPS to play for my system and well, I got it and Im satisfied.... the players 
 on here are far from noobs and they will kill you easily... however, its great to always play and 
 learn how to own... I still am not a pro however but I always try my best to learn how these excellent 
 players move and always get to own other players online.
  
  However, if you do not like losing easily... I advise stick to playing the campaign because the 
 multiplayer is faaaaaar from easy and you will have to practice a lot to become a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Halo Combat evolved is game that really needs no introduction, so I'll just skip right past the 
 basics. Alot of people skipped this version. It's understandable to. How many people really want 
 to buy a second copy of a game they already have. To the illinformed it's understandable why they 
 may have skipped this, but they missed out on a really good.
  
  Gameplay: Halo Combat Evolved got the PC is still packed with the gaming goodness you've learned 
 to love from the original version on the X-box. You'll still be carrying around a limited amount 
 of weapons making due with what you have while fending off some aliens that know what their dealing 
 with. And with the keyboard and mouse the excelent gameplay only feels better. for those who never 
 played the X-box version, you would have never known this was a port. the controls were perfectly 
 transitioned.
  
  Graphics: Halo on the PC looks for the most part alot like the X-box counter part. Which means 
 it looks great still. Suposedly there were some visual touch ups, but since my computer is not 
 insanely powerful, I really didn't see it. So for you high end computer people, you'll have a better 
 looking Halo on your hands. The only problem I encountered was some small lagg issues in online 
 play, but this was a rare occurance.
  
  Sound: The voice acting for the humans are great, and the chatter, roaring and gunting of the various 
 aliens you'll encounter in this adventure is convincing. For each aliens come a differet sound 
 that will become immidiatly recognizable as you make your way through the game. Each of the weapons 
 also have distict firing sounds as well. And the sound effects are great. Even better is the composition. 
 The music is excelent. this games has got one of the best sound tracks in gaming history.
  
  Value: The single player is pretty long. Surprisingly long for a shooter. it'll take around 
 fifteen hours to beat. Pretty much a couple weeks, maybe less unless you just never have anything 
 else better to do. For the perfectionist, they'll wanna be the game on the hardest difficulty for 
 the secret ening. And that in itself is a feat. Once you've finished up the campaign you can head 
 on into the competitive multiplayer. The multipler game types include the famous capture the flag, 
 king of the hill a game where you or you team based on game mode must occupy a small space on the 
 map the longest) Slayer which is bassically death match, odd ball where you or your team based 
 on mode of play must keep a skull for the longest amount of time till the match ends, race where 
 you must get to certain checkpoints a cetain amount of times scattered around a map first and two 
 new game types Assualt where one team must take the flag to the oposing teams base and juggernaut, 
 it's bassically oddball without a skull and score is based on kills not time. All of this modes 
 can be played in a every man for himslef style or in teams. And with almost twenty maps to play 
 all these games on, this wont get old. While co-operative play for the campaign is gone the game 
 more than makes up for it with online multiplayer and an additional downloadable caled custom edition 
 where player can play on user created maps. With additinal weapons, vehicles and the inclusion 
 of online play and jacked up graphics theres deffinatly enough here for any Halo fan to want to 
 pick tis up. It's pretty much the definitive version of Halo Combat Evolved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Believe it or not, I played Halo 2 first before I bought the first. I don't think it was a mistake, 
 but I was left a little in the dark. I finally got it on my Xbox, and I could see why it was it 
 was a 9.7. I personally think the PC version is an improvement, with the multiplayer and all. The 
 graphics are slightly improved on the highest settings as well.
  
  Positive- Great Multiplayer, slightly updated graphics, still the great Halo we know.
  
  Negative- 
 Multiplayer is still no Halo 2, has some rare slowdown moments,
  (My opinion) Physics should have been updated.
  
  This PC version is still the great Halo, 
 but with the addition of online multiplayer and fine tuned graphics. Anyone who hasn't played Halo 
 on the Xbox and has a good computer, or a Halo fan who needs online multiplayer, (Me for instance) 
 this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalFreekz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing single-player campaign with epic battles and awesome AI and awesome online multiplayer. 
 KILLER sound.
  The Bad: For the most part, the Marine's AI is not so great, some level design is repetetive.
 
  Won't The Flood: Just stay dead, damnit!
  
  Halo is an amazing shooter that first appeared on the XBOX as a launch game. While it was an amazing 
 game, the PC version is basically a Director's Cut, keeping the exact same game while adding one 
 incredibly crucial element: Online Play. First off, the single player. The first thing you'll notice 
 is how suprisingly long the game's campaign is. My first play-through, it took me about 10 hours 
 to complete. While it may not seem long compared to some games, like Soul Reaver (which clocks 
 in at about 35+ hours) , for a FPS, its a pretty long time. Not to mention, the storyline is very 
 immersive. Im not gonna go into too much detail, but long story short, Aliens attack Marine Ship, 
 Marine Ship lands on mysterious interplanetary ring, all hell breaks loose.
  
  Now, the reason that the PC version edges the XBOX version: Online Play. The first Halo only had 
 split-screen and system-link. While the PC version ixnayed the split-screen, it has LAN and Internet 
 games available. Also there are 2 additional weapons not in the XBOX release: the Flamethrower, 
 and the Feul Rod Gun. The maps are extremely fun to play, especially the extremely popular Bloodgulch. 
 The multiplayer has given me countless hours of fun and I STILL play it to this day.
  
  In short, this game is better than the XBOX version, and thats tough to beat, because the XBOX 
 original was completely amazing. And it is, without a doubt, better than the 2nd game. I hope the 
 3rd game will be as good, if not, better than this. Hands down, you must play HALO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearhead95
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best pc game ever the story is good and then there is online combat that 
 is amazing. There are many weapons assault rifle, shotgun, sniper rifle, pistol, grenades and then 
 there are guns from the aliens side. Then there are vehicles ther is the warthogs one with the 
 automatic machine gun and the missle launcher then there is a huge tank and then there is a hover 
 craft thenat floats around with a gun. The thing is the online mode can get so addicting that it 
 is hard to step away. Yet again this game is easily the best PC game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dart_The_Slayer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Summary
  
  I felt this was a great game. It was the best game i have played since Half Life! I just finished 
 Call of Duty - which i liked but felt it was too short. Halo (like Half Life) is an epic game that 
 is a real value. Brief Pros and Cons Pros - gameplay - variety of weapons &amp; vehicles - little 
 restriction on movement - variety of environments - good story line - long epic game - very creative 
 Cons - Some system bugs with the portal. - Cannot turn up graphics settings - Some repetition in 
 indoor enviro. - Very beginning starts out slow
  Sound
  
  The sound is good, nothing to write home about. I don't put much weight into this when rating a 
 game. I thought the game had creative ways it used the sound.
  Gameplay
  
  The game play is where this game excels. It has a great story and gives the player a lot of freedom 
 to roam around. You have tons of weapons and vehicles to use. Most other games when you get a vehicle 
 or a space ship you cannot roam far off a certain path. But Halo lets you go almost anywhere. I 
 ilke how if you remembered seeing a weapon several stages back you needed, you could still return 
 and get it. The A. I. is also good. The begining of the game started out a bit slow but once you 
 got going it was great. I had the same feeling with Half Life. At first with both these games I 
 was wondering what all the hype was about, but stick with it and you find out. A reviewer mentioned 
 limited weapons. At first this is true but their are at least 5 guns to use and just as many enemy 
 weapons to pick up and each one is very unique. The amount of vehicles to use was amazing and you 
 could take the vehicle anywhere you wanted. The fighting is also very great. It is a good balance 
 between strategy and just pure shoot whatever moves. Sometimes you have other marines with you 
 and sometimes you are on your own. All the aspects made the gameplay great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  One of Microsoft's main reason of why they put Halo on the PC is because they wanted to have on-line 
 play for Halo 1, it was too late to make Halo 1 work for live so they made it for the PC. Although 
 the PC version is identical to the X BOX version except that now you can use the fuel rod-is that 
 the on-line part of Halo was not like it should. The problem is with aiming. When playing on-line 
 you have to aim a little to the right or to the left, it might not seem like something I should 
 make a fuss about but it is a problem. When it comes to playing Halo for X BOX and Halo PC on-line 
 there is a big difference. It is almost impossible to shoot someone with a sniper rifle. I have 
 gotten pretty good with the pistol though. Microsoft has the ability to fix this problem but they 
 chose not to. That aiming problem leads to making it look like you hit someone or something but 
 in the game you really did not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  This game is frikin amazing!!!! It has the best gameplay of any game on the PC! Not to mention 
 it stars Master Chief, WHO KIKS BUT! Halo is definately worth $20!! This game has the best soundtrack 
 that I have ever heard in a game, In this game spartan 117 must destroy halo before it falls in 
 covenant hands! You and your marines (useless) must fight and kill covenant grunts, jackals, elites, 
 and hunters, and the elites are mad hard on ultimate difficulty. Have fun with this game! But dont 
 get scared when you see the flood, they wont suck your guts out or anything, they will just posess 
 you and then use you as food!! YEAH!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldelite60
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Since I've had Halo on xbox since it came out I can say that the PC version is better in a few 
 ways. Firstly, the addition of new maps and weapons in multiplayer and being able to play with 
 people online is sweet. Of course you can also do that now with Halo 2; both for xbox and PC. The 
 first thing I loved about this game was the fact that you can use the banshee in multiplayer, which 
 is something I thought that people should have been able to do in Halo for the xbox, but for some 
 reason Bungie didn't put it in. Anyway the new maps in the game give players more maps to use vehicles 
 in and since you can type to players on your team you can coordinate strategies to be the first 
 to capture the flag or whatever you may be playing. The only down side to this game is that you 
 may need to buy a better graphics card or else lower the visual display so that the game runs smoothly. 
 Of course in addition the the game's action-packed campaign and online multiplayer players can 
 also use mods or upload them from halomods. com to make it just as fun as it was the day you bought 
 it. People have given other players the oppurtunity to fly pelicans and upload enemy AI into multiplayer 
 maps. Overall this game is anexcellent addition to anyone's game collection and should not be missed, 
 whether you're a hardcore Halo fan or just a fan of FPS you'll love this game just the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  The pc has seen a lot of good FPS games before Halo, like Half-life and Unreal series, but Halo 
 is considered a gem even in the PC gaming context. A rarely good sci-fi story complimented with 
 good gameplay pacing and complex physics allows Halo to gain a strong reputation in the gaming 
 world.
  
  Personally, I enjoyed Halo for its depth of play, including opportunities for flanking and stealth, 
 as well as the fore-mentioned real-world physics (vehicles too) which is an eye-opener. Also, I 
 like the fact that you can't carry a lot of weapons in this game and there are lots of gear for 
 you to choose from, including conventional military types and alien guns, forcing you to make strategic 
 choices or conserve ammo to heighten the excitement.
  
  One thing I really get a kick out of it is the ability to sneak up on those dwarfy little aliens 
 and give knock-out kills, which is really satisfying and fun in a way. Anyone who's an FPS lover, 
 don't leave this one out!
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenny_Chen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Everything about the game except the bad!
  
  The bad:
  
  1) minimal number of weapons carried simultaneously. Even in those realistic games such as Rainbow 
 Six Lockdown you can carry more than 2 weapons at a time. Is a super soldier's strength weaker 
 than a real soldier? Since everything on Halo, including the ring itself is so unreal, why should 
 the main character's ability to carry weapons be so realistic?
  
  2) backtracking! In order to get the best-suited weapon for an enemy, you need to backtrack a lot 
 to pick up a right one! If you don't want to backtrack so much, you'll suffer from the sheer reduction 
 of enjoyment slaughtering enemies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hip-hop-cola
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Halo may be amazing on the consoles, I dont want to take away from halo: ce on consoles at all. 
 In the pc arena it simply doesnt stand up.
  
  The story for halo is short and but slightly hard, there are moments that you may struggle but 
 nothing more than a maybe half and hours struggle. So halo is relying on its multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer? Well its good, its fun, but better than other shooters out there? no, there 
 are so many better fps out there for multiplayer that halo doesnt deserve its 9.0 just to name 
 a few, unreal, far cry, GR, operation flash point...
  
  Halo is definitely nice to look at, there are shiny halls and master chief looks great. the sound 
 is also great with music that will keep you up and alert.
  
  sadly i would say halo is a good fps on pc but to say its up there with the best is just wrong 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gassy_human
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Halo is not at all what its cracked up to be but still has an enjoyable single player campaign 
 that never gets boring. This is what makes the single player camapign so unique, it never gets 
 boring but it also never gets exciting. The games AI is extremely impressive but the games strongest 
 point has to be the story. The voice acting in this game is awesome. The multiplayer is funny. 
 The online players compose mainly of a large latin speaking and arab community. But using the melee 
 attack on a teamates genitals is the best part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ovp87
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  First time i tried Halo was a few years ago on a friends 360, i didnt get what the big deal was 
 back then, and after trying it on the pc now is still cant. I honestly cant find a single thing 
 that makes this game worth all the nonsense reviews it gets:
  
  Gameplay: 6 - (nothing innovative or new about it, just several long hours of blasting aliens with 
 not-so-impressive AI's.)
  
  Graphics: 7 - ( Well, since the game is a bit dated i cant really complain, it looks ok, but its 
 hardly breathtaking.)
  
  Sound: 7 - (Sounds are well enough done, once again tough, im not seing anything good enough to 
 warrant all the attention this game is getting)
  
  Its also pretty suprising how high the specs are, perhaps it was just a bad fitt with my test machine, 
 but i experienced more tech problems with halo that i did with more recent and better looking games.
 
  
  To sum it all up:
  
  Been there done that, might be fun for about half an hour, at wich point you start to feel bad 
 for the little grey men running arround like mindless sheep while you smack them on the head with 
 your weapon. (wich according to the gamespot review feels rewarding ....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suker21_2001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I've gotten Halo through in two versions in two countries, one is the traditional Chinese version 
 when I was in China, one is the English version when I'm in Italy. So I wanna classify it as a classic, epoch-making 
 game. You can reminisce the impression of combat when you play other analogous FPS games. I reinstalled 
 it when I was playing .The feeling of Halo burst out ,the suitable graphics to the theme in that 
 age, the breathtaking tensity, crazy firing, incessant plot one after another to push your step forward. Although 
 some places are monotonous and seem to be mechanically repeating. But all told ,no one can negate 
 the great success of Halo. Master  
 fabulous game star. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odeclogne
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Unless you've been living under a rock for the last two years, you've already heard about Halo: 
 Combat Evolved. Easily one of the best launch titles for any console and still one of the best 
 games available for the Xbox, it's a game that transcended the market. Though it hasn't quite enjoyed 
 the same visibility in the public consciousness as titles like Grand Theft Auto or The Sims, Halo 
 is, nevertheless, one of the industry's premiere titles. As we said in our Xbox review, it's the 
 excuse to buy an Xbox and vice versa.
  
  So there are a few ways to approach the review of Halo: Combat Evolved. One is as a fan of the 
 Xbox version; another is as a player completely unaware that the game even existed. I'll try to 
 straddle the fence as best I can in the review but, just so my bias is out in the open right away, 
 I'll tell you that I'm a definite fan of the Xbox version of the game. To further bare my soul, 
 I suppose I should also tell you that I've been excited about this game since it was first demoed 
 to us four years ago (as a PC-only Tribes-killer, no less) .
  
  Gearbox's conversion (which is a nicer word than port ) preserves much of what I loved about the 
 original game. The pacing, the weapons, the enemies and, in fact, the entire content of the game, 
 is exactly as it was when we played it a couple of years ago. That, as you'll see later in the 
 review, is both a blessing and a curse for the PC version of Halo: Combat Evolved.
  
  Most video game science-fiction is of fairly low quality and, thankfully, Halo is the exception 
 to the rule. Boasting a story that draws the player in to an alien world, Halo presents us with 
 enough information and background to keep things interesting while still allowing for real surprises. 
 The player steps into the shoes of an elite soldier just as his ship is attacked by an alien force 
 known as the Covenant. The player is forced to crash land on an alien ring world and uncover the 
 secret of its purpose. Suffice it to say that the whole style and presentation of the story is 
 good enough to stand on its own -- a quality few game plots possess.
  
  Along the way you'll meet a range of enemies who all exhibit very distinct behaviors. The basic 
 grunt units of the Covenant are small, chicken-like aliens who rely on numbers to overwhelm the 
 player. You can even intimidate these tiny guys by taking out the large enemies first. Left alone 
 on the battlefield, these grunts will scurry off to gather their courage before attacking you again. 
 The shield-carrying Jackals are next on the list and their forward-facing protection and tendency 
 to roll from side-to-side while dodging your fire forces you to adopt entirely different tactics 
 when facing them. The big Elite troopers (in a variety of colors, no less) begin to offer more 
 of a challenge as they're protected by armor and capable of beating the crap out of you if you 
 get too close. There are a few more enemies beyond these guys that have their own tactics and weaknesses.
 
  
  And without giving too much away, you'll find that the Covenant makes up only one half of the roster 
 of enemies you'll be facing. I won't say much more for fear of spoiling the surprise but I will 
 say this: the unit types for the second group of bad guys you encounter aren't as varied as the 
 Covenant, either in terms of purpose or personality. This lack of roles and behavior seems intentional 
 to me so it's less of a criticism but you still won't identify as much with the second batch of 
 bad guys once they show up. Since you'll be blowing them to pieces in either case, it's not that 
 much of a limitation.
  
  Halo does more with its ten weapons than most games do with twice that many. Each has an entirely 
 unique role and, while gamers are sure to develop a strong preference for a small subset of weapons, 
 the entire arsenal is so well designed that you owe it to yourself to at least try every weapon 
 for a few minutes. You'll find the range of tactics each require offers one of the best surprises 
 in the game. And, even more surprising, Halo avoids the tired convention of merely duplicating 
 weapon roles on either side. There's a tremendous difference between even the basic pistols for 
 both human and Covenant forces.
  
  While many Xboxers enjoyed playing through the game cooperatively with a friend, no such feature 
 is offered on the PC version. I tend to be a bit more forgiving of this omission than some of the 
 other editors around here, but it's still unfortunate that PC players won't have the same chance 
 to take on the entire game alongside a buddy. Gearbox's explanation that the code required to include 
 this feature would involve a substantial overhaul seems a sufficient enough reason to go ahead 
 and release the title without it.
  
  But as a consolation, they have added six new maps and a couple of new weapons and modes. The more 
 directed Assault mode (which alternates in placing two teams on defense and offense in a CTF format) 
 is a nice addition, but those players who want more can use the game's custom multiplayer mode 
 to create their own versions of the game, including game type, vehicle mix and a few other options. 
 The team has also allowed gamers to pilot the flying Covenant Banshee in multiplayer. Those of 
 you who've managed to snag this baby during the single player game will relish the thought of swooping 
 down on your enemies from above and laying them out with the craft's formidable weaponry.
  
  The six new maps offer a range of interesting spaces in which to play. I quite like the level 
 based on the beach assault during the single player game's Silent Cartographer level. Conversely, 
 the large bridge level offers something that we haven't really seen before but it still quite compelling. 
 Given the game's 16-player limit, we won't find fault with the relative intimacy of some of the 
 levels. But even on the smaller levels, there are interesting and hidden routes you can take to 
 seemingly inaccessible areas.
  
  The networking code seems stable enough but the single player game's occasionally choppy performance 
 occurs here as well, particularly when you've got a full roster of players all tossing grenades 
 about. Since the game's not due out till next week, we've had to content ourselves with LAN games 
 here at the office and the occasional online match against industry-insider types who already have 
 their gold versions. Once more players start flooding the servers, Gearbox will have an opportunity 
 to address some of the network performance issues. Hopefully, they'll be able to do the same to 
 the game's overall graphics performance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El-Player
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Halo PC I have played the game and the demo and beat both i have been to the world of halo and 
 what i have to say is
  where was this game all this years? the halo series has been one of the most popular first person 
 shooters out there
  and the one with the best multiplayer action. the story is great capturing the intesity of the 
 war and the great missions
  on every game. i enjoyed all of the missions and the demo had a really easy mission where you don't 
 have to figure a lot
  about the game just kill enemies until the back up can actually come and than you get to be the 
 hero. the halo world and
  great eviroments are amazing and well created. the character and the the enemies are a the level 
 and the weapons are unique and well personalize for the used on every mission. The multiplayer 
 is the best i ever played and
  the actions of teamoing up with a bunch of friends on capture the flag is great.
  
  i rate 
 the game in perfect and i plan to buy the three halo for the xbox 360 soon!!
  thanks for reading
  *Oscar* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadManMatt5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game brings PC gaming to a new level, to say that it is not to your taste may draw rased brows, 
 because it covers things one could hardly expect of a shooter. Through a conscise and interesting 
 campaign the game hooks you, combined with internet play it gets stuck in your head. However this 
 game is somewhat lacking when it comes to keeping a player hooked for long periods of time, but 
 when rediscovered it takes gaming to a new level all over again. Overall Halo is a must have for 
 PC as it brakes ground as a PC shooter. The games drawbacks are slight, and what pushes it forward 
 is not slight. Through multiple levels of campaign and great difficulty control Halo Combat Evolved 
 is an exellent game to invest in. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Wow!
  Well everyones heard of Halo ( if not you live under a rock)
  If you think that its not really as good as everyone says?
  You are wrong!
  I have always wandered 
 why halo was so great
  Now i know why...
  The graphics in the game are beautiful! Although the game was created in 2003 the graphics of the 
 game are still great at this time. A lot of effort has been put into player models, trees, landscapes, 
 vehicles etc. Excellent work
  
  The games gameplay is excellent. The pc version has better aiming which makes it alot easier. The 
 sheer amount of weapons and vehicles makes the game better than other games. And the size of the 
 levels are awesome! Its not like one of those games where your team are like potatoes. Your team 
 are so useful that even though you control master chief its like your all as good as each other 
 especially when 3 people go on a vehicle
  
  The sound in the game is also very good. Bulelt sprays and explosions sound excellent and your 
 team talking to you and cries from the your enemies sound very clear
  
  The online in the game is amazing! On the pc version depending on whoevers hosting the games internet 
 speed depends on the lag and glitches. But if you forget thoses its great. Theres alot of different 
 matches ( a few of my favourites are king of the hill and capture the flag) and you can get ships 
 aswell. There are also caves in mountains with hidden weapons like flamethrowers! You can play 
 up to 16 people in a game
  
  Overall this is a masterpiece of a game which is just amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Well the game is great, the gameplay, the graphics, etc.
  And the singleplayer is just excellent. I'm not going to make this a long review so lets just get 
 to the point, The mutiplayer lacks features.
  If you could level up, have clan wars (Some people make their own clan but it doesn't work very 
 well. I would like to add more but i forgot them. So basically Halo multiplayer is just Play For 
 Fun, But it might get boring sometimes, Well that was my review. But i must admit, it is a very 
 fun game.
  
  Oh and the vehicles in this game are excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  OK, i'll be quick about this one: the gameplay is very good but could have been better, the graphics 
 are very very good but the characters themselves ( the soldiers, Cortana, Keyes, the aliens) don't 
 look too real. The sound is actually the good part of this game because it has very good music 
 that kicks in at the right moment in the game wich gives a more epic feel to the whole story and 
 combat. Also the environments are very cool, you could just stand there and admire them if it weren't 
 for those aliens bugging you almost all the time. In conclusion Halo is a very good game even on 
 the PC not just on the XBOX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsluka
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Halo 1 is the best shooter of it's time, hands down. The graphics are great, for the time it was 
 released. The plot is amazing and it leaves room for many more games (as there are) . The enemies 
 introduced are intreging and terrifying (the flood, ewww) . The game isn't to hard, and isn't too 
 easy, it's just good enough for anyone, on the correct dificulty for your skill, of course. My 
 favorite weapon has to be the sniper rifle, very accurate, but it has a shollow clip at times (ex. 
 close range, teehee) . The vehicles are great, but can be n00bish, especially the banshee. Multiplayer 
 is great and the levels are good. halo 1 rocks. Halo 1 for PC is much easier than Halo 1 for Xbox. 
 The controls are much simplar and easier to learn and remember. One downside to the PC version, 
 if your graphics card isn't good enough, like mine, the game graphics sort of suck, but its still 
 halo, so who cares! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a-wasp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  halo for the pc rocks !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I love halo1 and i love trying glches on it. if 
 youdont have it get it. best fps for the pc . the grafics can be better but they didn't have enogh 
 time and recorses. myfavort glich are warthog jumps. the wepons are great and the phisics are better 
 than halo 2's. the best game ever for the pc. my name on it is a-wasp and i do trick servers alot 
 so look for me. the best map i think is a tie between crion tl34, death island and blood gulch. 
 beter than halo1 for the x box lke i said don't haveit then buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a nice game, the soundtracks, the enemies, and the original little storyline is fun. Effects 
 and details are well defined and the maps are pretty big, so you have plenty of roaming around 
 to do and lots and lots of enemies to kill =D. You play as the master chief but you ever get to 
 see his face, though when I heard him speak for the first time, I thought it was David Hayters 
 voice (Soild Snakes VA) but it wasnt him. The aliens you fight can turn out to be pretty annoying 
 at times especially when they run for cover instead of opening themselves to the barrel of your 
 gun, not what an FPS fan would want, right? Luckily, the other species we fight are of a completely 
 different nature, so it so much fun going wild on them =D.
  
  What sucks about Halo is its monotony. You start a level, enter a new map and when you clear it, 
 and move to lets say level 2, youll end up in the same map with all the same enemies you encountered 
 before at the same places, the only difference, its level 2. This happens a few times in the game 
 and you keep on laying the same levels over and over again which is very annoying and shows the 
 lack of creativity. The other annoying thing about Halo is just when you start realizing the game 
 would end, another mission comes up and it keeps on going like that, so much that youll probably 
 start banging your head on the wall as the game though always seems to end, but never does, there 
 is always something new and stupid that comes up your way. I was surprised when I finally finished 
 the game and thanked God that it was finally over.. phew. If somebody can play this game a second 
 time, that person is definitely not a human. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coyote32
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Good: Good? VERY GOOD. Amazing game. Started Bungie into one of the best companies with the help 
 of Halo 2, and soon to be Halo 3. The weapons are great, the gameplay is awesome, the story is 
 the best. Its just one of the world best games IMO. God-Like. Halo PC Multiplayer is one of the 
 best I ever played. Theres a range of the terrible noobs and then the legends. There are a lot 
 of games up and clans to join. Including mine, C {I} A. Theres stunts servers where you go and mess 
 around with friends or the Fighting servers where you go and kill the enemy or even Race servers 
 where you get in a warthog and drive around the map until one team wins.
  
  Bad: Bad? WHAAA? NOO. You must be crazy.
  
  My Rating
  10.0
  
  Gamespot's Rating
  9.0
 
  
  You peoples Rating
  8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  i got this game a couple of years ago not long after it came out. What inspired me to get it was 
 when i played the Xbox version of it over my friends house on cooperative and i loved it, But i 
 like it more on PC.
  
  The Good: This game has a good storyline, you are the master cheif, spartan 117, your ship has 
 been invaded after fleeing from planet earth by aliens known as the covenant, you get in an escape 
 pod and land on the ring world Halo. The multiplayer is good fun too, as there are lots of modes 
 to play such as CTF and Slayer (deathmatch) and a tonne of human and alien weapons and vehicles.
 
  
  the bad: the only bad thing i can think of really is the lack of main characters. That's how good 
 it is! that's all i can think of!
  
  overall: give this game a shot it is worth it. I'm not sure how much it is worth now but whatever 
 you pay should be reasonable for such a good game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  this is a really fun game to play online! the story mode is pretty cool too. ok the graphics in 
 this game r pretty bad, but it makes up for the GREAT gameplay. The sound is good. OK the online 
 play is the best part of the game, there is lots of weapons to choose from like machine guns, grenades, shotguns, 
 and also you can use vehicles. There is also alot of different maps to choose from. If you complete 
 story mode theres still online play, which will keep you hooked for hours. By the way you might 
 want to practice before you go online lol because its not easy.. i did it and i sucked.. but u will 
 eventually get the hang of it and u will really start to enjoy it. alright if you got an extra 
 $20 and a good working computer u should go get this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurul_ali
Rating: 5
Date: May 25, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  this is a one of the good game. it's make me scared to go to another level. even after finished 
 again still scary though
  to all who make the review and make the walk through. well done i have to say. i like this game 
 because some fun in it. like covenant blowing off say thing like GRENADES and other cool and funny 
 kinda stuff. but i get scared when meet the hunter :D. it's the scaries and the fun part LOL. anyway 
 it's been dissappointed to see only vista can play HALO 2. : (. but this is good game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tt1tt1tt1
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 21, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved, or simply Halo, is a science fiction first-person shooter video game developed 
 by Bungie Studios, and the first installment of the Halo trilogy. It was released on November 15, 
 2001 as a launch title for the Xbox gaming system, [1] and is considered that platform's killer 
 application . [5] With more than five million copies sold worldwide, Halo is second only to its 
 sequel, Halo 2, in sales for the Xbox video game console. [6]
  
  The titular Halo is an enormous, ring-shaped artificial space habitat, which (according to Bungie 
 Studios) has a diameter of ten thousand kilometers. [7] Halo sits at a Lagrange point between a 
 planet and its moon. Rotation provides the station's gravity. [8] In the game, the player assumes 
 the role of the Master Chief, a cyborg super-soldier with battle armor. The Master Chief is accompanied 
 by Cortana, an artificial intelligence who occupies the neural implant between the battle armor 
 and the Master Chief's brain. Players battle various types of aliens on foot or in vehicles as 
 they attempt to uncover the secrets of the Halo. The game has been called easy to learn, [9] and 
 has been praised for its engaging story . [10]
  
  Widely considered to be one of the best, and most influential, first-person shooters of all time, 
 Halo's acclaim rivals that of GoldenEye 007 and Half-Life. For example, Edge gave Halo a full score 
 of ten out of ten, only the fourth such designation in the magazine's 12-year history. [11] Nevertheless, 
 Halo has its critics. The game was tenth on GameSpy's Top 25 Most Overrated Games of All Time ; 
 one reviewer stated that the game recycl [ed] the same areas over and over until you were bored 
 to tears. [12]
  
  The game's popularity has led to labels such as Halo clone [13] and Halo killer , applied to games 
 either similar to, or anticipated to be better than, Halo. [14] In addition, the game inspired and 
 was used in the fan-created Red vs. Blue video series, which is credited as the first big success 
 of machinima [15]  the art of using real-time 3-D engines, often from computer and video games, 
 to create animated films. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchido-josex
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Halo CE is a great FPS like you never seen before the storys stars out in the mother ship when 
 these aliens try to destroy it you evacuate and crash in this distant planet with a wierd giant 
 ring around the name H. AL. O is the name of this super secreat gun well I'll stop spoiling the game 
 for yall and talk about other stuff.
  The multyplayer in this game is a 10/10 one of the best the multy player may see repetetive like 
 just killing goin for flag and back to base but dont be fool you'll find that you will end up goin 
 back to the multy player for hours some people have play the game for 1000+hours in multy player 
 its just that addictive and many maps and wepons like my personal favorite the sniper there are 
 bazucas flametrowhers hand guns shotguns and more what about the vehicles well guess what my friend 
 you will find planty in this game like banshees warthogs ghosts and more what about the game types 
 pwell there are planty here to keep you bussy my friend like CTF slayer oadball king of the hill 
 team slayer and about 2 more
  well what do I think of the game I think the game is a must have for any pc owner no matter what 
 so stop reding this bad grhamer review and go but the game for crying outloud 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedMan72
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  there is one thing about this, why did it take like 2 years for halo to make it to the pc! anyways 
 this game is awesome, its some of the best multiplayer i have ever played (but no co-op like the 
 xbox) and its awesome if u like 2 have music playing at the same time (like me i like to have linkin 
 park playing on multiplayer) .
  the singleplayer story is great and its fun to play more than once.
  in the end its one of the 
 best pc games ive ever played and i just cant stop playing online, so if you dont have it go get 
 it now!! its only $20 so go get it, ill  
 your back and if you didnt get it your going to be sorry (lol) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklinuxmaster
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  It was totally worth 20 bucks to buy it it has wonderful multiplayer and great graphics!!!!!!!!!!! 
 when i first bought it i was blown away.
  I suggest that you download the demo of it on here, it is a big file but it lets you play multiplayer 
 and a whole level on it!! Don't buy it from target because they want 30 bucks for it, buy it from 
 amazon they have it for 20 bucks and free shipping. Another great thing about this game is that 
 you can choose how hard or easy you want to play. The multiplayer is so much fun, it is free and 
 you can drive all sorts of ships warthogs and other things, some times you use team mode letting 
 you on the team of a slayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who plays video games most likely know about Halo and if you don't... well thats kinda 
 sad. Halo is a FPS (first-person shooter) , it was originally a multi-platform game by Bungie but 
 after Microsoft bought the developers it was an xbox exclusive released in 2001. Then about 2 years 
 later it was ported/released for the PC and a sequel Halo 2 came out as well in 2004 for the xbox 
 (which is coming to PC in May 2007) . There is a free download-able trial version of Halo, you can 
 find it here on Gamespot as well as a lot of other places. I got the trial and it convinced me 
 to get the game.
  
  So whats the point of getting the PC version? well if you have a xbox or a 360 then there is no 
 point really, but if you dont have either of those then this game is a must. First, it is one of 
 the best innovative and revolutionary FPS next to Half-life. It is cheap and most PC's can handle 
 it, my piece of excrement PC can run it smoothly and it never crashes.
  
  Anyways here is a traditional 5 step breakdown of Halo.
  
  Gameplay- 9
  Normal mouse and 
 keyboard FPS action, anyone can pick it up right away. Only thing is the default controls are not 
 that great, but the controls are fully customizable and you can use game pads and xbox controllers 
 (not sure about the last one) . The thing that stands out is the action, you have health, but you 
 also have shields, so you can have one health bar and still take a few hits, because your shields 
 recharge but your health stays the same. Your armor allows you to jump far, has a flashlight and 
 thermal when using a scope, holds an AI program and is darn cool looking. The enemies and weapons 
 make an FPS right? right, I knew you would agree. Halo does not have any ground breaking weapons, 
 but is there any ground to break in the field of firearms? yes, but we're not there yet. The human 
 weapons are your basic ones, but the Covenant (religious fanatical aliens and the main enemy) have 
 some crazy weapons. There is a plasma pistol which can be charged up, a plasma rifle the basic 
 Covenant gun (both the plasma weapons can't be reloaded but most Covenant carry them so you can 
 get a new one almost anytime) , the needler a magazine fed-homing-explosive round-automatic gun 
 (my favorite gun ever) and plasma grenades which like blue fireballs and stick to enemies. There 
 are more online and in Halo 2 etc. but those are the Covenant ones you can use, also you can only 
 carry 2 weapons and 4 of each type of grenade (frag and plasma) . Your opponents are smart and tough, 
 they take cover, attack in numbers and come in many different sizes and shapes. Throughout the 
 game there are automatic save points and nice level transitions, they are shown by removing the 
 HUD, black bars come on top and bottom and the level name is in the bottom right corner. Online 
 is a different story, being added in from the xbox original, it isn't fully implemented. But if 
 you can find a server with less than 10 people and a low ping, then it is quite enjoyable. Dont 
 expect that much from online though, treat it as a bonus. Also there is no co-op mode, bummer. 
 Overall, Halo is just darn fun to play.
  
  Graphics- 8
  Not much to say, game looks great and everything and there is very little lag/hold-up. The frame 
 rate can get some weird jumps on elevators and checkpoints but it doesn't ruin anything. The art 
 style and character/enemy models look fantastic. Unfortunately online is kinda muddy and a bit 
 washed out, but that is most likely my computer, your case my be different (and most likely better) .
 
  
  Sound- 10
  A highlight of the game, superb voice acting, weapons sound amazing and the soundtrack is just 
 awesome. Cant complain about the music/sound really.
  
  Value- 9
  Campaign is lengthy and there isn't a lot of replay value, but trust me, you will want to play 
 the campaign again. Also playingbeating it on Legendary (hardest difficulty) is very fun and challenging. 
 Online is a mixed bag, but it is still pretty good.
  
  Tilt- 9
  Halo is a classic FPS, polished and filled with detail... yup, tilt-o-factor reads a nine. (By 
 the way, the difficulty is picked and there is no variable option like GS reviews sometimes have, 
 also just right is not the same as normal ... GS really has to give us more difficulty levels to 
 choose from, where is impossible and don't fall asleep come on GS) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Halo consists of an intense, story-driven single-player campaign and a multiplayer mode. The campaign 
 is a good 12 hours long at the normal difficulty setting, and the dynamic nature of the battles, 
 along with the multiple, well-balanced difficulty settings, gives it good replay value. The multiplayer 
 component only supports up to 16 players and includes a bare-bones integrated server finder. The 
 game tends to play smoothly online if you can find a server with a low enough ping, and it features 
 an assortment of different modes, which are variations on the standard modes of play found in your 
 typical multiplayer shooter: They include slayer (meaning, deathmatch) , team slayer, capture the 
 flag, king of the hill, and some others, though slayer and CTF are by far the most popular choices 
 judging from the servers that are up and running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehEnergy
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 9, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  If you don't own an Xbox and want the join in with the Halo hype, buying this game will get you 
 in. The single player is identical to that of the Xbox version but the multiplayer is totally different. 
 Although the game is a bit old, millions of people still play it everyday. Well populated servers 
 mean lots of fun. New weapons have also been added such as the flame thrower and the rocket firing 
 Warthog. The multiplayer maps are good too, infact so good, that two of them have just been remade 
 as downloadable content for Halo 2 on the original Xbox. Even if you own the original Xbox version, 
 the online multiplayer alone is enough to make you want to purchase this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I can remember the long sittings of mutliplayer Halo and Halo 2 all those summers ago, getting 
 nothing done and forgetting about life itself. Through user-made mods and the intensity of combat, 
 I could gorge on the simplistic-yet-complex combat for days at a time. I never thought to tackle 
 the campaigns until now, a couple weeks from Halo 2's Vista launch date. While I was impressed 
 by the magnanimous story and adrenaline-fueled first-person shooter mechanics, I was sufficiently 
 frustrated by the backtracking and useless sequences.
  
  If you are not one for games which force rather large amounts of backtracking, uninstall and shelve 
 Halo, because the second half is nothing more than a rehashing of the first half, albeit with Flood 
 and a reversal of directions. While for some this isn't bothersome, I found the recycling of locales 
 and the demands of objectives were unbelievably annoying, as well as stupid save points which can 
 all but destroy the experience.
  
  Since Halo has been out for around six years, I will not shy away from specific plot points. Once 
 the Flood is released, Halo takes a turn to the negative, and begun my hatred of design decisions. 
 I have no specific problem with the Flood in their various forms, from self-detonating zit heads 
 to the jumping arm bodies. However, when there are a half-dozen zombie-like aliens with rocket 
 launchers and needlers, I loose patience and my mouth begins its quest to spurt the maximum amount 
 of profanity possible. Coupled with immense amounts of backtracking and the reusing of locations, 
 sequences, textures, and so on, this takes what could have transpired as a stellar latter half 
 into a horrible rehashing of the former.
  
  I have to say it was worth it to beat the campaign, as it only took around ten or eleven hours, 
 but I can't remember much of the superior first parts. Regardless, I will play though it on Legendary 
 simply to say I did, and to occupy me until May 22.
  
  The FPS mechanics are well done, and are reflected in almost every game since, more often than 
 not the regenerating shield or some variation therefore. Combat is outstanding and each weapon 
 has its purpose and specific time of use, which can also be part of the challenge in knowing which 
 two weapons to wield or when to hang on to a couple grenades. Enemies aren't too difficult to dispatch, 
 including the armed and dangerous Flood, although restarting from checkpoints upwards of ten times 
 will happen at least two or three times in beating the game.
  
  This also draws me to another point of distaste which is found in a majority of contemporary games, 
 which is developer's incapability to discern appropriate challenge from insane and inane difficulty. 
 A challenging campaign would feature minimal backtracking and trial-and-error and would rely more 
 on the ability of players to decipher spur-of-the-moment encounters while under fire. Backtracking 
 through a differently-populated area, however, is stupid and not challenging. Perhaps Bungie did 
 this assuming the difficulty of the Flood would be offset by familiarity with the surroundings; 
 but one thing is for sure and that is I do not appreciate it.
  
  In any case, Halo is definitely an experience not to be missed, and I guarantee every FPS nut or 
 anyone who has missed out of Halo 2 should pick up a cheap copy and play though it in a couple 
 days. While I am severely frustrated be design choices, I have no reservations in putting Halo 
 in with the monuments of games upon which others are built. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Aresnal7
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The story line was a little short for me but the coop is asome!!!!!!!!!! I love the multiplayer 
 I havent tried it online but I hope to soon I found that without the great coop and multiplayer 
 the game would lose lots of fans but Bungie was able to pull it off!!!!! Yet I mostly spend time 
 playing multiplayer with my cuzins!!!! I like the coop to but not as much as the multiplayer my 
 favourite map to play on multiplayer is BloodGulch!!!! Well I dont have much to say but I love 
 the series for its great multiplayer and coop I like the story but to short and well thats all. 
 !!!!!!!!!! THANKS BUNGIE FOR A GREAT GAME!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastdownload117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  This is essentially the first FPS I played on my computer, and it completely blew me away (really 
 my first FPS ever- the only other one I had played was Duke Nukem for the PS, and even that was 
 borrowed for a few days) .
  
  I was first introduced to HALO through its demo- the campaign portion was pretty decent when I 
 played it, and the multiplayer one of the busiest, and best for a demo I have ever seen- even to 
 this day.
  
  So I eventually purchased the game, and enjoyed its campaign everyday, interspersed with multiplayer. 
 The game's settings appear at times to be somewhat repetitive, but they are for the most part unique. 
 Some of the campaign story lines get your adrenaline pumping, and there are some mediocre puzzlers 
 in the game.
  
  Overall, this game is worth your time, and has some very good graphics, for a great number of systems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm tired of console hippies giving this PC version crap. We know it's not as good as the Xbox 
 version. But it still is an excellent game. If you have an Xbox, then get the Xbox version, if 
 you don't, then get the PC version; you will not be dissapointed. The overall campaign is well-designed 
 and of good length. The campaign, to me, is not what makes Halo an excellent FPS; it is the online 
 gameplay. The many customizable online modes create an excellent replay value.
  
  The graphics are not OK graphics for 2003, but instead awesome graphics from 2001. It has good 
 widescreen and high resolution support.
  
  It's sound is OK, with some issues, but these issues are fixed with the latest patch.
  
  Halo 
 for PC is a solid game, while not as good as the original, still is worth playing for anyone who 
 is interested in FPSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game has taken everything great from every other FPS and has put them together to create the 
 most fun unique expierience ever. The gameplay has you going from point A to point B killing every 
 enemy with the different weapons. Even though it can get sorta repetitive, it's still fun. Depending 
 on the difficulty, you can play a different game . If you play on Easy, you can go all Rambo on 
 every one and mow down all the enemies. If you go on Hard or Legendary, you have to hide behind 
 cover, and out smart the enemy (like Gears of War) . You can go through the level anyway you like. 
 With the weapons, you can be stealthy (Sniper) , you can be like Rambo ( Assault Rifle, all the 
 automatics or semi automatics) , or you can go all Terminator on them with the missile rifle and 
 the gattling gun on the back of the Warthog, or finally you can pretend to be Clint Eastwood and 
 shoot them with the pistol. There are many different weapons to choose from and each one has it's 
 purpose. I will go through them. The Plasma Pistol is one of the last-resort weapons, but it can 
 take down enemy sheilds easily with it's charged shot. The Plasma Rifle Takes down the Covenant 
 and the Robots super easy. The Needler is another last-resort weapon that is bascally useless unless 
 you want to kill the enemy from far away if they are standing still. The Plasma Grenade can stick 
 onto enemis. The Pistol is the best weapon in the game. It is good in short-range, medium range, 
 or long range (it can snipe) . The assault rifle is super strong for taking down health, but not 
 sheilds. The Shotgun is best for taking down every enemy and makes one-hit kills in short range. 
 The sniper rifle and the missile launcher speak for themselves. The Gattling gun on the Warthog 
 is geat for mowing down enemies. The regular grenade can bounce off walls. So all of the weapons 
 are good. The enemies are smart and fun to kill. I didn't enjoy fighting the Flood (zombies) as 
 much, but it makes the game more interesting. This game is interesting becuase of the awsome story. 
 It also has a nice twist 2 thirds into it too. Vehicles are a big part of this game and they are 
 incorperated so well that they are almost as fun to drive as it is to fight on-foot. They all serve 
 a purpose like the weapons. The single player is surperb. Now for the multiplayer. The modes include: 
 Slayer, CTF, King of the Hill, Oddball, and Race. You will never get bored playing the multiplayer. 
 The splitscreen is always fun, and a great experience. The graphics aren't any thing new, but the 
 desgins for the weapons and the enemies and everything is so perfect that it makes the game cool 
 and replayable. Some things are subtle that make drastic changes to the gameplay. The sound is 
 very well done. The sound effects are perfect and the music sets the pace well. To wrap this massive 
 review up, I would just want to to know that this is one of my favorite games ever and you need 
 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon_Lord_914
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Halo in its PC incarnation is simply a wonderful FPS. I've played both, and thought the console 
 was better, but if you, like me, are cheap and aren't planning on getting an Xbox or 360 then there's 
 no reason you shouldn't pick this up. There is no aspect of this game that isn't wonderful. The 
 storyline for the single player is particularly good in my opinion. It's like your standard FPS, 
 only better. The only competition it should really have is from the games that come after it, like 
 Halo 2, F. E. A. R., etc. But you can pick up Halo for just 20 bucks, so go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Halo Combat Evolved is an better than average game at best. The enemy AI isn't amazing, at higher 
 difficulty levels they shoot shoot faster and take more damage.
  
  The graphics are decent, they are not mindblowing are spectacular. The mission design is the worst 
 thing in the game. All of the elevators, floors, and hallways look the same. For mission 5 and 
 the library mission 7 there was so much cut copy paste you think you already went there when really 
 your just following the map.
  
  The sound is good. Vehicles, but this wasn't the first game to introduce the concept. Only wielding 
 two weapons sucks. Sure there is a level of realism, but that is lame. In Call of Duty, Far Cry, 
 FEAR it is at least 3. 4 for Far Cry.
  
  Yeah the story. Save Earth, alien race, another 3rd party in the mix. Then a 4th party the 343 
 guilty spark. Halo is a decent game at it's best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I did not hear about Halo before this one came out; I was not aware of any Halo hype and I did 
 not know there already was a fan base. I simply picked it up because of Gamespot's high review 
 score, and also because I trusted in the quality of Microsoft's games.
  Halo is a full-course action game that comes along with hordes of monsters and freaky creatures. 
 But at the beginning of the game, I had no idea about monsters and all that. As the hero of the 
 game on board a starship, you are awakened by your colleagues to fight invading enemies and you 
 land in a troubled planet to help your people. The game kicks off fighting human enemies and for 
 a few levels its all about fighting your human enemies. Then at one point you suddenly realise 
 that there is another force working against the humans -- and that, like HAL of Arthur C Clerk's 
 Space Odyssey: 2001, is a computer enemy. You have to fight through hordes of creatures that this 
 enemy has fetched from other worlds and destroy the computer.
  The difficulty of this game progressively becomes so challenging that at times I had to cheat. 
 The game is so involving that it can claim your eating habit, sleeping and even going to the loo. 
 The player perspective is like that of Doom -- which means when it comes to jumping from one point 
 to another or jumping up, you might miss your target or fail to assess whether one problem can 
 be solved by merely jumping up. Even practices won't make it perfect, because I had this jumping 
 problem even at the final level. Otherwise this game is a flawless fun. You might consider having 
 an extra mouse after killing all those monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraggoonX12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  If You Are looking for some good multiplayer but dont want ot empty your walet. Halo: Combat Evolved 
 for PC is a great choice. It has alot of depth in Multiplayer. I've played hundreds of Multiplayer 
 Matches And Something Memarable has happened in all of them. It has a Great Multiplayer, but i 
 felt that its single player droped out at times. Although its single player isn't the best i've 
 seen it good enough to keep you entertained. I also like the differnece in difficulties. halo acually 
 makes you want to play all of the difficuleties. The game also has a wide range of Mods. If you 
 like mods you
  wont have to go far to obtain stuff like extra skins, extra weapons, alternate maps, etc.
  
 
  But if you just want good multiplayer for a low price Halo: Combat Evovled Should Be First On 
 Your List. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the__vagrant
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  'Halo' is one of the most impressive video game offerings that I've ever seen. The game is tense, 
 thrilling and downright creepy at times. The game's graphics may not push the XBOX completely, 
 but they're often brilliantly crafted, with worlds and interior environments that I would love 
 to see realized in a film. 
  'Halo' is one of the most impressive video game offerings that I've ever seen. The game is tense, 
 thrilling and downright creepy at times. The game's graphics may not push the XBOX completely, 
 but they're often brilliantly crafted, with worlds and interior environments that I would love 
 to see realized in a film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00tcolors
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Halo: Combat Evolved. Created by the developer Bungie, this title earned itself a remarkable 
 9.7 out of 10 honor from Gamespot when it was first released for the XBOX back during the system's 
 launch. After years of waiting we finally get our hands on a pc version of this game. It's still 
 the great game from the XBOX but it had indeed lost a bit of it's charm during the port. Still, 
 if you have yet to play this title it is a must buy for pc.
  
  Halo's gameplay was what really set this game apart from other XBOX games from the era. It was 
 simple, shoot or be shot but it was executed very well. Each and every Covenant you managed to 
 blow up felt like a great achievement. Every level felt like an influx of challenge and fun. Halo 
 somehow makes you feel better playing it than other games. Of course the fun does not end at single 
 player! In the original version XBOX system link allowed you to play with up to 16 players. In 
 the PC version, you can play online against 15 other players. The multiplayer itself is something 
 to behold.
  
  Unfortunately I cant be so enthusiastic about the production values. Sure, the graphics and sounds 
 are okay and they do suit the game but after such a long time there were no graphics updates. Even 
 on high detail Halo looks could be classified as mediocre and if someone did not recognize the 
 name they would never consider purchasing it. However they can get away with us because everyone 
 knows Halo.
  
  If you have yet to buy the game, this is as good a time as ever. The online multiplayer in this 
 game is worth the purchase. Thanks for reading, I hope this review helped you make the right decision 
 on whether this game was for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GANGSTASAN
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  WEll, i buyed this game after 3 years it came out. its pretty cheap (about 20 buks) . And was worth 
 it. I know the singleplayer is'nt that great but it's fun for the first time playing. Multiplayer 
 is great thx 2 halo custom edition it makes it past worhwhille. allowin custom maps and new content 
 all the time, it helps, givin u a better exp. The single player can be very fustrating because in 
 lv6 (or higher) most of the time ur own ur own and theres loads of enimies and when u think u finished 
 them all -they come back and kill you. And the weapons are not good enuf, theres only 8 guns in 
 singleplayer and most of them are weak, but the weapons are cool. And thx to custom edition u can 
 download maps with new weapons from halo2! (like smg and battle rifle) and adds a great exp. so, at 
 this time the game doesnt cost much and is worth buyin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timdabrat
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Halo 1 started it all. And now it's on the PC. This is a direct port of the original xbox's version 
 but with a bit more content added, like 5 new maps, 2 new weapons and 2 new vehicles. This game 
 has amazing graphics (even still they look great) , Amazing storyline, and Perfect Gameplay! Multiplyer 
 is always good fun, with up to 16 spartans running amok causing wanton destruction in several multiplayer 
 modes, such as CTF, Slayer, Team Slayer, Oddball, king of the hill, and custom-made games that 
 have been made by users all around the world! If you want more user-created content, weapons, maps, 
 and more, then pick up the free download of Halo CE, made by gearbox. This game is a must-pwn for 
 anyone who like FPS, Action, Adventure, driving, or just plain killing! So grab your assault rifle 
 now and shoot up some grunts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a great port from xbox. Everything is pretty much the same from the orginal xbox version 
 but Pc version quality is a bit better something you would not except from a console to PC port. Graphics 
 are nice and shiny for a 2003 game and runs on any modern PC. Gameplay is simpke killing things 
 and point a to point B movement with a intresting story and cutscens. Sounds is amazing with nice 
 weapong sounds and voice acting. the game is only 10 to 20 dollars now and a good game to pass 
 the time.
  
  The Good: Graphics Sounds, Story line, cutscens, fun to kill things
  The bad: some lag at times repitive gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RitcherBelmont
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Many people say Halo is the best FPS ever. I disagree, the game is just another unremarkable shooter 
 with a gimmick. The weapons are slightly interesting but enemy design, vehicles, level design and 
 story are all below average. Compared to unique games like UT2004 and Timesplitters, Halo pales 
 in comparison. The shield is an interesting feature but it hardly redeems the game, some of the 
 weapons seem totally uninspired like the assualt reifle and pistol, it seems humans can colonize 
 worlds, create spaceships and even a wonderful shield but they cannot invent weapons that are any 
 more complex than something from the 80's. I bought the game for $5 and got a free game. I regret 
 it to be honest, it's worth much less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people i know have always said that Halo was the best sci-fi shooter ever! Then one day 
 i just got tempted to buy this game because it was so cheap and i installed it and began to play 
 one of the best shooters in modern gaming history. I was immensely impressed by the graphics, for 
 a game out of 2003 the graphics for was just ...... do i even need to say it? Superb! The graphics 
 were amazingly lavish and detailed in every aspect. Game play is a another story entirely. The 
 game play was like a movie script because it had the element of horror, suspense and betrayal. 
 All of this add up to make one of the best sci-fi shooters in history. Levels in the game are very 
 fun and interesting because it isn't like Doom 3, where all the fighting and shooting were indoors, 
 instead it takes you to the open fields of Halo, interiors of a alien battle cruiser and all the 
 way to icy and glacier like battlefields. This game is a must-buy for every FPS or sci-fi fan, 
 so if you haven't got this game yet and you're a sci-fi fan, I think it's really time for you to 
 pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revord1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Campaign mode is quite intriguing, and has good plot and a very nice twist in it. However, where 
 this game gets its longevity has got to be in the multi player mode. With a variety of game types 
 that are available as well as customisable, there is plenty of action to be had. Solid mapping 
 definitely is a huge benefit, and this game has definitely benefited from some quality mapping. 
 Biggest drawback: Custom maps. You have to download and play Halo CE in order to get custom maps. 
 My opinion is that Halo PC should have been designed to accept custom maps instead of forcing users 
 to use a different program. Overall though, I felt that this game hasn't outlived itself yet, and 
 is proving it on a regular basis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatWat06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  I have bin playing this game since the day it came out and i still think its a EXCELLENT AMAZING 
  The gameplay is good with OUTSTANDING story line. This 
 game is the best First Person Shooter on the PC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The difficultys are Easy, 
 Normal, Heroic, and Legendary. I fined the game very easy by completing it on legendary. The story 
 is presented through an instruction manual, scripted events and conversations during the game, 
 and in-game cut scenes. The game begins as the Pillar of Autumn exits slip-space near a mysterious 
 ring-shaped space station, called Halo by the Covenant. A Covenant fleet attacks and heavily damages 
 the Pillar of Autumn. Jacob Keyes initiates The Cole Protocol , a procedure designed to prevent 
 the Covenant from learning about Earth. While Keyes prepares to land the ship on Halo, the Master 
 Chief and Cortana escape via an escape pod, which crash lands on the ring.
  
  Captain Keyes survives the Autumn's crash landing, but is captured by the Covenant. In the second 
 and third levels of the game, the Master Chief and Cortana gather human survivors and rescue Captain 
 Keyes, who then orders Master Chief to beat the Covenant to Halo's control center and to discover 
 its purpose. The Master Chief and Cortana travel to a map room called the Silent Cartographer, 
 which leads them to the control room. There, Cortana enters the systems and, discovering something 
 urgent, suddenly sends the Master Chief to find Captain Keyes, while she stays behind. While searching 
 for his commander, the Master Chief learns that the Covenant has accidentally released the Flood, 
 a parasitic alien race capable of spreading itself by overwhelming and infesting other sentient 
 lifeforms. Keyes falls victim to them while looking for a cache of weapons. The release of the 
 Flood prompts 343 Guilty Spark to recruit the Master Chief in retrieving the Index, a device that 
 will activate Halo and prevent the Flood from spreading beyond the facility. The Master Chief (left) 
 converses with 343 Guilty Spark (right) . After the Master Chief retrieves and begins to use the 
 Index, Cortana re-appears and warns him against the activation. She has discovered that Halo's 
 defense system is a weapon designed to kill all sentient life in the galaxy, thus effectively starving 
 the Flood. When confronted with this information, 343 Guilty Spark states that the installation 
 technically only has a maximum radius of twenty-five thousand light years, but that its pulse would 
 trigger other similar installations as well, killing all sentient life in the galaxy.
  
  With Cortana's help, and while fighting the Flood, the Covenant, and Guilty Spark's Sentinels, 
 the Master Chief attempts to destroy Halo before 343 Guilty Spark activates it. Cortana discovers 
 that the best way to destroy Halo is to cause the crashed Pillar of Autumn to self-destruct. However, 
 Captain Keyes' authorization is required to destroy the ship. By the time that they reach Keyes, 
 he has been infested and turned into a Brain Flood. The Master Chief retrieves Keyes' neural implants 
 directly from his brain, and Cortana activates the Autumn's self-destruct sequence. However, 343 
 Guilty Spark reappears and deactivates the countdown, discovering the record of human history in 
 the process. The Master Chief manually causes the Pillar of Autumn's fusion reactors to begin to 
 melt down, giving him and Cortana only fifteen minutes to escape. The Master Chief and Cortana 
 flee in a small starship before Halo explodes. The ending reveals that 343 Guilty Spark survives 
 the explosion of Halo, and the story is continued in Halo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Halo, as most all gamers know, came out first on the Xbox and was one of the main reason it did 
 so successful later it the consoles life span. Now a few years later it is also on the PC and it 
 still plays as good as ever. The graphics are noticably better than the original version along 
 with some better looking animations. The real thing that lures most Halo players is the single 
 player and it's deep story. The story pits you as Master Chief, one of the last Spartan's left 
 in USMC, to fight and hopefully stop the Alien threat that is the Covenant. While the Alien thing 
 has been done many times in games Gearbox did a great job of capturing the futuristic feel and 
 overall plot that makes Halo as good as it is. With 20+ hours of gameplay in single player it can 
 be played many times over in different difficulties including legendary. While Halo's single player 
 is one of the best around, its later added PC Multiplayer is also a blast. The Xbox version while 
 not built in to the game it did have MP capabilities via Xboxlive. net (or something) but now it 
 is a whole lot easier with instant acess MP for the PC. It may not be Unreal or Counterstrike but 
 Halo's MP is still very fun. With this said, Halo: Combat Evolved is definately an unforgetable 
 experience that has left it's mark on gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightbarier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  The game is great and fun to play and dosn't seem to lack much if not at all from the x-box version 
 and yes the online play is free. The new weapions don't seem to do well much since you can only 
 use them on multiplayer as far as I know. The new vehicles are gox ood such as the banshie don't 
 bug me if I spelled that wrong. All around it is a good game and if you don't have a x-box know 
 is the time to get it. Not to mention that it is only twenty bucks and if that is to much for you 
 then I guess there isn't much you can get off the game market no offense so pick it up and look 
 at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaAndy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Halo 1 Is proburly a great old shcool shooter there is. The story is yet epic and fun and the gameplay 
 is good but I had to changs the controls to play on the keybored. the Multiplayer is very full 
 of players figthing it out over the world and yet this game is but only 4 years old and many still 
 play it! I will get HALO 2 when I get the XBOX 360 when I can. For now this is but the first part 
 of the epic Halo trilioge and by this fall we will know how it ends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I've been a long critic of this game but i have to say for it's time it was a very good game, just 
 not as good as everyone makes it out to be. I must say though i played through it once and thought 
 this sucks lol but i gave it another go and i actually see why people liked it compared to games 
 out that year.
  
  The gameplay is simple standard FPS but it added nice vehicles and bigger levels than other FPS 
 and it had the best Ai for the time. The story aswel is pretty good for a FPS but basic in itsself.
 
  
  I found the graphics too be actually very good for the day and only thing that lets it down IMO 
 is the generic bland art style.
  
  The sounds are great too but standard.
  
  The value is good cause it's 8-10hours of gameplay with a standard multiplayer for &pound;5.
 
  
  Overall it's a good game however i didn't find it to be great like everyone said it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakensou
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  My review on this game is a total attack on the game's weakest point... It's a BORING game... You 
 spend almost the entire story of the game fighting the same enemies. Although the A. I. of the game 
 is a good aspect to it, the fact that you kill those irritating little guys everywhere all trough 
 the game is terrible.
  And changing their color doesn't make them new enemies.
  The vehicles in the game are nice and cool to drive, givin' the game a fun way to blast enemies. 
 But in the technical department, both Graphics and Sound suck enormously... Like I stated earlier, 
 that kind of mistake might fly on a console world where fps are looked upon in a weird fashion 
 and are both rare and basic. But on the PC, it's a whole 'nother ball game. PC is the kingdom of 
 fps games and as such a lot more was expected from this game or any other fps for that matter. 
 Halo PC simply doesn't cut it compared to the kind of fps games we in the pc world are so accustomed 
 to...
  Microsoft thumbles it, once more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Halo : Combat Evolved is one of those few games that are bound to carve a niche in the great rock 
 of gaming. The game is essentially one of the best First Person Shooter games available on the 
 PC platform. Its an experience no one should miss out on. Its graphics is good and it delivers 
 a great many hours of addictive gaming to those gamers looking for a game that puts up a challenge. The 
 game has specular and decal effects that make the game more graphically presentable and essentially 
 requires a lot more memory to play in higher resolutions. But, the game also is very adaptive and 
 allows the players to play even without these effects. The game starts in a disinteresting manner 
 when the Master Chief is awoken from his cryogenic slumber . But matters gets heated up as the 
 Covenants attack the ship. The Master Chief, after a brutal fight with the Covenants lands on the 
 mysterious Halo. Here, his journey begins and an ever-exciting story starts revealing itself as 
 the game goes on and uncovers the secrets of the Halo and what it quarantined in its captivity.
 
  
  The soundtrack of the game also fills us with more excitement while playing the game and diffrent 
 elements in the game mix up to form a great game on the whole.
  
  The developers at Bungie deserve a hats-off for their endeavour at making such a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rykerita
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game... Just go to the store and get it... Graphics is good, lots of multiplayer 
 and multiplayer mods in store along with a full moding community, the gameplay is wicked, with 
 all the bad guys and the awesome story line, and the sound makes everything excellent.... It's 
 a great game... The simplicity of this game makes even better, even though it one of the best ever 
 made... Simple as that. Do me a favor and go to your local EB Games and pick up this game. ok? ok... ok 
 ok ok. Do it. Or else. The Game Is Great. Everything is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS games since 007 Golden Eye. This definitly raises the bar for all FPS 
 games just like Golden Eye. It has a great story, Sound, and will last you a long time. While the 
 low point of the game aren't really bad. Th gameplay gets a bit repetitive and mindless, but you 
 get so caught up in the game you dont even think about it. The graphics are pretty nice. They arent 
 the best the PC has to offer and I had hoped they wouldve been enhanced a little, but they are 
 still pretty good looking.
  
  The Sound track for this game really is one of the best that has been done next to the catchy Nintendo 
 tunes. So this is the best SERIOUS soundtrack in a game. The voices are awesome. Its fun to hear 
 even in the middle of the game what the marines, grunts or elites are al saying. It keeps things 
 interesting. Then the gameplay is pretty cool and definitly makes the game. The best part about 
 the gameplay is the online. Its just a bunch of fun that never gets old even if it is repetitive. 
 So the gameplay is a little repetitive and recycled at time, but you are so into it you dont notice. 
 There is tons to keep you interested. This rivals Golden Eye what many people including myself 
 call the best FPS ever made.
  
  This is a game you must have in your collection if you are even remotely interested in FPS games. 
 One of the best parts are its only $20. IT may be a little old, but even now, Its still a game 
 that never gets old and is fun no matter how much you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorcererofhell
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a great game when it comes to the Single player gameplay and storyline, and has a good 
 online multiplayer. It has an easy to use interface, and simple, yet enjoyable gameplay. The music 
 is great.
  
  One thing I don't like, however, is that it is a bit too easy for an experienced FPS player, has 
 a punitive inventory of weapons, and simple gameplay. Still, it is a good, solid game, which runs 
 smoothly, and has a good multiplayer.
  
  The graphics aren't too bad, and you don't need an expensive PC to run it.
  
  Good game, but 
 could have been better in some ways. An essential PC game, and one not to be turned down, it has 
 firm, straightforward gameplay, and a good multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Firstly i'd like to introduce you to the bright sides of this good game.
  In my opinion the graphics are on the highest level for that time, reflections are good and real, 
 even antialiasing included. When the battles occured in the spaceships or indoor facilities there 
 was nothing fascinating about it: the same corridors over and over and the same copy-pasted walls, 
 ceilings, floors or whatever.. But when you appear on the snowy landscape or the sea shore - it's 
 amazing; i shot an enemy aircraft and it slowly was landing in my direction burning and smoking, 
 and finally it crashlanded on the frozen pond tearing the ice apart (nothing actually happend to 
 the pond, it stayed the same, without any marks) and making small pieces of ice lift up in the 
 air, and my first impression was: OUTSTANDING, is this ice REAL?! The music is great, i've even 
 been rocking my head till i got a headache. The bodies of the dead has ability of jumping meatsacks 
 when triggered on the grenades or rockets - it can spin it out up to 50M in height that looks hilarious 
 yet natural ( Now whatcha gonna do wit' stars in your eyes?! ) You can use human war machinery 
 as well as the alien (further will be known as Covenant race) which has infinite ammuniion. There 
 are two types of weapons - Covenant energy weaponry &amp; Human classical assortment of firepower. 
 Some of the weapons are useless against specific enemy, but it can be the best weapon in some other 
 situation. Looks like Doom 3 has stolen flashlight effect from Halo , because it looks identical 
 to the bottom of the heart. You have an energy shield that restores in some time after taking some 
 damage; shield power-ups can be found in glass boxes to add some more protective layers to it, 
 they don't restore though. Time to get down to some bad parts of the game:
  1. Do we really need a squad helping you out? I think not. They are pain in the arse - shoot their 
 own party members to kill, even throwing grenades before their own feet, one word - poor A I, unless 
 they ride a warthog or scorpion and don't cross your path to mess up things.
  2. Until the middle of the game maps are changing and everything seems different, but in the second 
 part of the game you return back to the places you've already been and everything looks pretty 
 much the same, except there are more enemies and they are more powerful.
  3. The FLOOD (a. k. a. zombie union member/group) ! U_U.
  One of the flood is surrounded by Covenant 
 army in about 500M away from me and i'm camping with the sniper rifle behind the hill. Well, he 
 suddeenly starts to run in my direction, but i don't see anything suspicious here and stay calm; 
 100M difference now, i become aware and intrigued... what now? In the end he's 3M away from me 
 and makes a jumping slash hit. NO MORE COMMENTS. PERIOD.
  4. Game tips: make a melee attack on the enemy and it will instantly die . Yeah, whatever. Try it 
 yourself.
  5. The rocket launcher is the worst i've ever seen.
  6. For example the ending - You ride the Warthog straight, suddenly it turns over, you fall down 
 from it on the ground, while you figuring out what the hell happened, the warthog falls on you 
 and you die.
  7. Gravity system - inconvenient. There are places you can't walk around and have to jump over. 
 The enemy on the other side makes a smart move, shoots you and you fly back a couple of meters. 
 Sometimes this routine takes more than dozen times until you're pissed off.
  8. Infinite amount of enemies &amp; appearing out of nowhere? We don't need that!
  
  STRANGE 
 THINGS: Why do the Covenants afraid of the grenades so much that they even willing to jump from 
 a cliff to avoid explosion?
  How come the flood may jump up to 15 meters high to hit Sentinels? Ufair and unnatural. The stuffed-up 
 body of flood with explosive balloon-like creatures. When the body falls and explodes it SUPPOSED 
 to detonate the fragile creatures within. But it doesn't. (Well, someone can say - Wow man, chill 
 out, it's just a game, things like that may happen ; But i says it is stupid and they could have 
 created something more sane) . Camouflaged Flood member says anything to you? To me it says - IT'S 
 A BUG, NEEDS A PATCH. When i layed my hands for the first time on the Banshee i thaught - YEY, 
 I'll be flying EVERYWHERE. Well, i just had to be disappointed, when i went up to the skies, something 
 that reminds ceiling stopped me from exploring the universe. FAIL.
  
  Okay guys, overall is: you should play it. That's it. Have a nice day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjorgo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game is a classic, the controlls are easy to master and the enamy is intellegent. The Vehicles 
 are excellent but i couldent help but think that their could be more kinds and more in the story 
 mode. The most impressive peice of this game is the multiplayer, the fights are fast, brutle, and 
 spectacular. you will have to use stratigy to fight your foes. their are numerious veicules spreed 
 in the maps. and if you don't like all the game types they give you, you can make your own, and 
 it is easyer then you would think. i would seriously recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macpop
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  even if it came out a while after its xbox counterpart, its still best on the pc, the controls 
 graphics look more clean than the xbox. the single still rocks and doesnt get boring after playin 
 it after a million times, the multi is out of this world. the multi is as good as it gets for halo 
 fast action gaming and fun that will make u play non stop. from its awsome story line to awsome 
 multi this game is superb and AAA for sure and deserves more than the xbox version score, but the 
 delay is wat maybe wat gave it a 9.0 but it gets a 9.5 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeinc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  What a great game. Such balance in all aspects of a game are rarely seen but Halo brings this into 
 the FPS genre and comes out as on of the best games ever made and one of the best series to ever 
 be started.
  The single player of the game not only involves basic gun to gun fighting but overtaking of vehicles 
 in the game that can be used to your advantage. A diversity of enemies and terrain keeps you entertained 
 the whole way. Different types of mission whether it be stealth or a race against time all show 
 up in the game changing your gameplay style in different aspects.
  The balance in the weaponry is well done, where each gun has a disadvantage on some weapons and 
 an advantage over others, making the multiplayer even more addictive. An excellent game, all should 
 play and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechwarrior_bob
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  It just is completely overated look there is about 8 guns (assault rifle, pistol, c pistol, c rifle, 
 sniper rifle, rocket launcher, needler, shotgun and in MP the pulse launcher) woo hoo what do most 
 games have 20-30. Plus what 5 vehicles (hog, tank, ghost, banshee, and in MP rocket hog) . Look about 
 halfway youll be going through the whole game again and you run into the same enemies over and 
 over and over and about at 2 hours you relize they have been acting the same way over and over 
 and over again. It just get's repetitive. I mean like in CSS pure infantry has around 20 guns a 
 faction with 2 factions. The maps in Halo are mah no big variety in any of the maps and 16 people 
 only? Come on BF2 supports 64 player maps on large and 32 medium and 16 small. Why can't Halo? 
 This game is meant for Xbox because the Xbox has no really good shooters. Look the PC has HL 1&amp;2, 
 Doom, Battlefield, Farcry, Unreal and others. What does the Xbox have besides all the good games 
 from PC ported to it. So really this game isn't meant for PC. If u have a Xbox pick it up, if u 
 have a PC drop it and get something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  The X-Box version is over glorafied... and the PC version is overyly buggy...
  Everything about the base game has been done on the PC for years with the exception of the vehicles... 
 You can get just as solid of a FPS experience playing any of Valve's games, Call of Duty, Far Cry, 
 or any other number of top notch PC shooters.... To add insult to injury, the game is buggy as 
 hell... The online severs are laggy and impossible to log in to, the gameplay has been done better, 
 the graphics are okay but dated and blocky, and it just doesn't work.... The sound is amazing though 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Halo was shown off at E3 originally on the PC. Bungie made a very smart decision by bringing Halo 
 on to the Xbox before the PC. It is a good thing they did. Now they have blessed Xbox owners all 
 over the world. Halo is just a plain out awesome game and anyone who has a chance to play it should. 
 The Story is absolutely incredible.
  
  Graphics
  
  Halo graphics are... good, and bad. The graphics in the landscapes and environments are nice... 
 but nothing more than average. Some of the environments are pretty cool, and most are just normal.
 
  
  Sound
  
  There's some cool music and stuff in halo. It sounds nice. Not the best, but pretty good for a 
 regular old FPS shooter. The sound effects are okay. You know, guns sound like guns. The voice, though, 
 is another story. The voice of the people is nice. They're actually voice acted pretty well, which 
 is surprising for a videogame. The alien voices are totally crap, and really lower the sound score 
 for this game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The single player mode is decent. Its not phenomenal, but it is definitely good. The guns are fun 
 to shoot, the vehicles are fun to drive, and the graphics make you feel like you are really there. 
 The game really succeeds in making you feel like a part of the environment. The AI is severely 
 lacking though, which is surprising considering how much some reviewers have droned on and on about 
 how the game isnt really about one man versus an army, but one man as part of a team versus an 
 army. Your AI-controlled squad mates are just as likely to run under the wheels of your buggy or 
 stand there and get torn to pieces as they are to help you. Usually when they do try to help you, 
 they simply run straight forward and shoot blindly until either they or their opponent is dead. After 
 playing through the single player game, you'll probably never want to play through it again, unless 
 you're a big fan of FPS single player campaigns. There isn't really anything that drives you to 
 try again or to play on a higher difficulty.
  
  In Conclusion...
  
  In conclusion, Halo is a boring, old FPS with nothing special or cool about it. There is a countless 
 number of FPS games out on the market, and Halo falls right in the middle of the batch, with nothing 
 setting it apart from any of the others. There are a few really great FPS games, there are a few 
 really horrible ones, and Halo is right in the middle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier_of_Halo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  You may have noticed that I rated this games difficulty as Very Hard. This is only applicable 
 to the Legendary difficulty setting, in which winning is almost an impossible task. The truth 
 is, the difficulty really depends. On easy, for example, you can easily kill a room full of elites 
 and grunts with no more than a single clip in your Assault Rifle, while at Legendary it could 
 take you an hour to progress past that same room.
  
  On to the review. I am a PC gamer, and have little experience with the original Halo for the Xbox. 
 Like anyone in my generation, however, I have played countless hours of Halo 2 with friends and 
 decided to bring that fun home with me to the PC (minus the friends, obviously) . I was disappointed 
 to find that I could not dual wield, but quickly lost that disappointment in the excitement of 
 the game. As I stated above, I am a PC gamer and have played more than my share of Call of Duty 
 and Medal of Honor, but this game outranks them both in terms of intensity, density, and overall 
 appeal.
  
  The creators have managed to create a future world that is actually believable, unlike many other 
 games, and this realistic environment makes the game all the more heart-throbbing. The Flood is 
 perhaps the best aspect of this surreal world, and the prospect of saving the galaxy from a fate 
 far more brutal than death certainly has its appeal (though there are illogical moments, such as 
 when Cortana decides to stop Guilty Spark from activating Halo {wouldnt an AI with all its far 
 seeing capabilities decide to destroy this galaxy so others can survive?} ) .
  
  I think one of the most appealing parts of Halo is the gameplay itself- it can and will keep you 
 occupied for hours on end, and the final sequence in the game can actually make one sweat! Another 
 aspect of Halo that sets it apart from other sci-fi fps games is its acute lack of lasers. The 
 idea to substitute instant-striking lasers for slow-moving plasma gave the game a unique appeal 
 and added balance to the shootouts in the game itself.
  
  All in all, Halo and its derivatives are awe-inspiring games that will be played for generations 
 to come, whether on the Xbox, PC or PS8 down the road. It is a classic game whose few flaws were 
 fixed in the sequel, and will be a testament to the imagination and innovation of the designers 
 at Bungie for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinnDS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved still stands the test of time, and does so in a fashion that few others do 
 .. I still come back to playing this game, be it just fooling around on single-player, or playing 
 some co-op with a friend, this game is still alot of fun, all these years after its initial release. 
 This is a FPS that has just about everything it needs - cool weapons, challenging and fun enemies, 
 different difficulty settings to quench the most hardcore gamer, frantic multiplayer session, vehichles 
 (which I always appriciate in games, but here in Halo is a prime example on how it's supposed to 
 be!..) The story about the destruction of the universe is, ofcourse, slightly clich&eacute; d, but 
 Master Chief is such a badass he pulls it off with style. For me, there is truthfully only good 
 words about this game. Everything about it still deserves a 9 - making it still one of the must-play 
 games of the old XBOX. Bottom line; if you haven't played this terrific FPS, then do so. Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NADERG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Halo is a good game. has good weapons but some are hard to figure out how to use them properly. 
 like the sniper for example, when someone is far away and their moving, you have to aim ahead of 
 them not directly on them and in snipers you never stand in one place ALWAYS keep moving. A lot 
 a vehicles and creative things to do with them. the game has also good graphics. To raps things 
 up if you want a game to keep you busy if you are trying to kill time Halo multiplayer for PC is 
 awesome but one probem, some ppl know how to put mods in their games and then it's not fair so 
 yah... but great game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahharow
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  It is an old game that is visually superior to a huge number of todays games. I enjoy it very much. 
 I installed it on a stronger machine on my primary living base, on athlon3000, 1gb ddr2 and x1600pro512ddr2, 
 and also on one of my historical machines, duron 800, 770 DDR and geforce n6200 or radeon 9600xt 
 - I change them sometimes, which is on my village secondary living base. It has a powerful story, 
 not deep as ex. sys shock, but deep enough for this kind of game. There is only one thing that 
 is not perfect for me in this game, to linear moving in the game, I would more like to get lost 
 sometimes, like for example in sys shock, where I got so lost that I had to play the game again. 
 I love it. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahfire
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  2 years after the Xbox release, we finally get our hands on the PC version. The main additions 
 here being multiplayer and improved resolutions. So have Gearbox gone ahead and made the best possible 
 conversion of the Xbox's best title?
  
  Halo is an action packed game and is by far the best first person shooter I've played. Most fps 
 don't have that much of a story line, you just have to kill everything that moves and that's about 
 it, but in Halo, there's a whole story line, and missions to accomplish. Oh wait, okey.... everyone 
 already know how the game is. Now then, this is where the main changes to Halo have been made; 
 you finally get the chance to play the game over the internet. Now on the Xbox, multiplayer on 
 split-screen and over linked up Xboxes was great. One major omission has occurred in the port over 
 from the Xbox  there is no longer any cooperative play which was one of the best parts of the 
 multiplayer game on the console.
  
  As for what is new  we have six new maps, a few new weapons and a couple of new gameplay modes 
 such as changes in the Assault mode and the chance to fly the banshee. Like the Xbox version, you 
 can create your own games from scratch. The six new maps are pretty good too, the best one being 
 based on the Silent Cartographer level (which is the brilliant beach assault stages in the Single 
 Player mode) .
  
  The net code seems good too, although the problem with the frame-rate that crops up in the Single 
 Player mode too also shows its face in the multiplayer game, which is a disappointment when you 
 consider how much more advanced PCs are compared to the Xbox.
  
  If you wanna play one of the best games ONLINE. Go and get it on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorughfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Readapted from the High Rated Halo For Xbox, this is a great addition to the halo family. with 
 more maps and weapons not avalible on Halo for Xbox, this alwoys the gamer to experiance more gameplay. 
 This game always you to play with multiply people around the world and to test your Halo skills 
 and see how good you really are at it. This game has very good sound and OK graphics, i believe 
 this game is a must have for any serious gamer but you better be ready to put up a serious fight 
 cause there is some good compotion out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harpiessnow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is a great game it comes in handy if you don't have a Xbox it follows the same story line 
 as the Xbox counter part but the thing that makes me mad either from my old graphic card the games 
 graphics are kind of low compared to the Xbox but all in the same it is a great game has a great 
 story I like the way that it has the difficulty separated but the real challenge is legendary which 
 I say is almost impossible.
  
  The controls are very easy to learn all you mainly have to do is glance at the instruction manual 
 and you know many things which makes this game pretty easy aside from most computer games that 
 can be a hassle just to learn to switch weapons but the downfall to the greatness of the controls 
 is that it is just to simple to learn it they could make everything just a little more difficult.
 
  
  Another great thing that I have come to love about this game is the online it is so easy to just 
 get this game and save the hassle of setting up your Xbox so it can play online games but the online 
 gaming is just astonishing aside from those people who join your game spawn kill you till you can't 
 even move a inch before dieing then leave calling you bad names but aside from anything this game 
 is great the best to play to wait for the next game in the trilogy to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  I remember this game very well as it was the game that I actually went out and bought an Xbox for. 
 A crazy decision some may say, but the cash i layed out was repayed many times over by the fact 
 that Halo provided me with hours and hours of gaming, and now upon the eve of the release of Halo 
 for the PC worldwide this is my review: The graphics are a lot sharper than the Xbox version, mainly 
 because you can have resolutions up to 2048x1024, that is to say, if you have the hardware for 
 it, however the game ran quite admirably on my P4 1.9ghz with 512MB RAM and a Geforce 3 Ti 200 
 even with all the details turned to high and 800x600 resolution, i am sure that it would still 
 run well on lower spec machines, the reflective surfaces and lighting looks more at home on the 
 PC. However im still trying to get a Radeon 9800 Pro so that i can enjoy this game with the highest 
 resolution. Come on people... This is Halo?? Of course it's to be playable! The same levels from 
 the Xbox version plus some new multiplayer maps and added modes for multiplayer on the PC. The 
 developers Valve really went for the 'mulitplayer' aspect of the game and have polished up the 
 game a treat if theres more than one involved. Very pleasing, but the single player has nothing 
 new if you have played the Xbox release to death. Online is a great way to play this game, and 
 the nuances of the Xbox live version have been polished up, on a plus side the sniper rifle is 
 far easier to use with a mouse than it has ever been with the original clunky Xbox controller. 
 Sounds are exactly the same as the Xbox version, but you have the choice of hardware acceleration 
 this time, and you get to hook your PC up to 5.1 speakers for a surround sound event. Clean sound, 
 crisp effects and a good soundtrack while playing, great stuff! Although it might sap a lot of 
 CPU power if you have onboard sound. Halo is as Halo does. The second best FPS in existance (you 
 didnt think i'd forget Half-Life did you?) , a sound purchase for those who have seen all of Gordon 
 Freeman's world a hundred times over, or for those who are mad at Valve for their shocking release 
 delays of HL2. Great game, great quality and I can't think of a better way than to pass hours between 
 HL2 release date delays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxR0gu3Go0sexX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  While this is a port of an old game for the Xbox it was good great. The best thing about Halo for 
 the Xbox and this game brought that same feeling online. They added some new maps which are also 
 very fun. They also allow people to fly Bansees in Multiplayer...
  
  The graphics look better for the Xbox, but that does not mean they look bad for the PC. The Guns 
 don't shine the same way as the Xbox, but some people would say that the PC looks nicer...
  
  The Gameplay has not changed, but they add new vehicals and weapons into multiplayer... You 
 can use the Fuel Rod Cannon which is very cool and has the best melee attack that I have ever seen.
 
  
  You can also drive around in a Rocket hog with only shoots 3 rockets before you have to reload... 
 that was probley done to make if far to people around the hog so they could get some shots in before 
 they have to jump out of the way of the rockets, but it still is an over powerful weapon.
  
  Everything that Was in Halo for the Xbox is back along with a few things that make this game 
 even better then the Original Halo...
  
  Even if you have Halo for the Xbox this game is worth picking up... if you have never played Halo 
 then you should get this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariospardaGS
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved is THE BEST computer game I have ever played. I have to say (In MY opinion) 
 I like this better than World of Warcraft. Probably just because I love shooting, action/adventure, 
 and sci-fi games. I also cant help but like survival horror games. I havent played any other Halos 
 due to no X-BOX, so I have to say best Halo SO FAR. While the graphics are not the best and the 
 diffuculty of a certain 'Legendary' mode may have players running back to easy for quick thrills, 
 Halo: CE is definetly one of my favorite games EVER. I also love the fact i have a gamepad now! 
 Yippee!*Jumps up and down* So if your PC is just sitting there, go, BUY HALO: CE!! .... and maybe 
 a gamepad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadskies
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Halo, one of the most over-rated first person shooteres ever made, it's over-glorified, over-rated, 
 just not very interesting at all. Now you are wondering why I gave it a 8.5 if it's not interesting? 
 Well read on.
  
  Graphics: They are nicely done, for it's time, but you got to figure, it's time was 2001, the port 
 didnt come out untill 2003, that doesnt really justify anything, they could of easily taken advantage 
 of the hardware, but that's nothing really. The game is nice to look at.
  
  Gameplay: Mixxed here, first of all the single player is uninspiring, bland and just not very interesting. 
 Pretty much there are two different types of enemies that flood the rather bland levels. You have 
 these infant aliens and these huge aliens. And that's it pretty much. The gameplay is very-repetitive, 
 you do have team-mates but their AI is soo stupid it's not even funny. The enemy AI is good but 
 sometimes it is choppy.
  
  Now the saving grace is infact, the gameplay. What do I mean? Pretty much it does alot of things 
 right. Instead of being able to carry 10 weapons, you are limited to two. Instead of having to 
 search coutnless game-time for a medpack, you get shields, which can easily hold you over. You 
 also get med-kits if you run low on shields, but if you are only down to lets say one bit of life, 
 you can hide, the shield can recover and you'll be good to go, it is a saving factor.
  
  Another thing is the multi-player. It is generic but add the gameplay enhancements that Halo gave 
 in the first place and it makes a wonderfull experience.
  
  Sound: Amazing voice acting, amazing music, nothing to complain about.
  
  Story: They really 
 dont go into depth on what exactly is going on, its a standard humans vs aliens type thing, the 
 main character has zero depth, and acts like a robot. The other characters are interseting but 
 there is just no depth to the plot.
  
  Bottom line:
  
  The single player game is un-interesting, probably wont hold manys attention that long, infact 
 it's soo bland I never even finished it. The thing to hold you over is the multi-player. It's the 
 games saving factor and I think the 20 dollar price tag is worth that, one of the best online experiences 
 i've had in awhile. I say: if you are bored with other FPS's give this a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: last_the_ride
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Halo is a sci-fi shooter with tons of weapons and levels. The first day I got it I played for 6 
 hours straight. This game is amazing and highly addictive. The online mode is easy and free, and 
 very fun once you got the hang of it. Some lobby's have glitch's that you use to your advantage, 
 like there is a lobby which takes place in a level called Infinity and you can get up on the cliffs 
 and on top of your base. Everyone knows about this so you will probably die when you get up there. 
 The vehicles are fun to driving but a bit hard to get used to, because you have to use your mouse 
 to turn. It took me awhile to actually get the hang of it and become a good driver. Personally 
 my favourite mode online is CTF, capture the flag. CTF is fairly hard in some levels and hard for 
 begginers. For really new begginers the hardest online mode for them would be the oddball mode. 
 In this mode you have to hold a skull without dieing for a certain amount of time to win. Now lets 
 get on to the pros and cons.
  
  Pros-
  
  -Fun, easy controls
  -Nice level design
  -Nice enemy designs
  -Great online mode
  -Fantastic game play
  -Good weapons
  -Fun levels
 
  
  
  Cons-
  
  -The vehicle controls are kind of hard
  -Some mode online are really hard
  
  Thats it for my review people, hope I get you to buy it!
 
  
  -last_the_ride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graygibbo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 7 Single player is more deserving of a 5 for gameplay whereas multiplayer is more worth 
 a 9, so obviously there is a difference of 4 so meet in the middle and you get 7 overall. Single 
 player is massively repetetive with very bad level design using reused areas over and over. Mapping 
 the grenade throwing to the right mouse button was intuitive move.
  Multiplayer is where it is at and presents an amazingly fun experience.
  Difficulty is massively 
 variable so you should be able to find a setting to suit you.
  
  Graphics - 6
  
  Massively reused areas and VERY bland level design together with bland a enviroment means it gets 
 a very low score. The reason it has managed to keep the score from being totally a joke is at the 
 time it came out the particle, shader and texures where all great.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  This is about the only thing I dont have an arguement with, the sound is good.
  
  Value - 7
 
  
  Again singleplayer is a joke but multiplayer is great same 5 single vs 9 multi = 7 overall
  
 
  Tilt - 8
  
  Single player is basically worthless but the multiplayer saves it and makes it really fun. If you 
 want a good multiplayer shooter this is a good game for it. If you want a good single player experience 
 expect to be disapointed and frustrated at the repetitive level design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieDucky
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The campaign mode is mediocre, with a very corny story. Dialouge is alright though. Multiplayer, 
 on the other hand, is very addictive, almost on par with games like Counter Strike or Wolfenstein. 
 Players can choose whether they want to play online, use a direct IP, or use LAN. However, I wished 
 the game had bots.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics, much of an improvement, though not as incredible though when compared 
 to other FPS games.
  
  Sound: The theme song and sound effects are great. Nothing annoying or out of place.
  
  Value: 
 A must-buy for PC owners if they didn't already have the Xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbomagic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, when this fist came out on the XBOX, i didn't like it at all. then one day, in early 
 2006, i saw it for PC.... very cheap and decided why not! since that day, i have not regretted 
 buying it.
  At the moment i am still playing the game on single player, taking it nice and slow, and i've only 
 just got into the game since the beginning of December when i left University for the Holidays. 
 IT IS ONE OF MY TOP (PC) GAMES I HAVE BROUGHT...
  The story is brilliant, characters are great, aliens are great, weapons are great, and the music 
 is superb. when i finish this i'm going to ask my neighbour if i can borrow his XBOX to play halo 
 2 (because halo 2 for PC is only for VISTA.... which is a bi***h) .
  
  (i have been a playstation gamer all my life... but since i've played halo, WILL be playing Halo 
 2 , AND NOW HALO 3 is coming out soon, i think i might convert to XBOX360.)
  
  i would defiantly suggest to anyone with a Laptop or PC..... buy this game.... you'll love it
  
 Single player is good... and if you like Multiplayer Action, your'll like it just as much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron97850261
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  The game was fantastic it had everything you could imagine from multiplayer to aliens. The game 
 was incredible, the graphics where fantastic as well as the gameplay. I liked the fact that there 
 was heaps of levels and that they made the scenes so great. It may not have been as good as the 
 2nd one but it was still great! I think that halo 3 will be the greatest yet and i can only hope 
 that they come up with a halo 4. so it was a great game and i look forward to Halo 3 and hopefully 
 halo 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMPACT_17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Lets start with single-player. It has a great story, very creative. The voice 
 acting was perfect and the vehicles were fun. The aliens were nicely done. Weapon design is just 
 right, not to screwed, not to powerful. Now to multiplayer, best I have seen in ages. Not just 
 modified from the single-player mode, but looks like really worked on. You finally experience team-work. 
 One gets the Banshee, others attack on foot, and 3 in the warthog, one driving and distracting, 
 one gunner, and on getting the flag. Put that and much more together, and you get a great game. 
 Worth the money, worth the wait. Way to go Bungie and Microsoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakishi1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Well this game is awesome, when i first saw the comercial for this game i was mesmorized, and when 
 i first played it I wasnt disapointed. Im able to play the mission over and over with different 
 difficulties and still have fun while getting better. And then theres multiplayer which is like 
 awesome, when i can play my friend or go online and challenge so many others. This game is deffinitly 
 worth playing. I prefer pc verson then the xbox verson cus pc has more maps, weapons, vehicles, 
 and theres mods which changes the whole game. The game battle style is different then others, theres 
 no recoil, the guns are always accurate and when facing your opponite it all comes down who has 
 the better skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herviross_2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  Master Chief may sound like a dorky name for an anti-hero, but dont be fooled by names because 
 Halo is a mind-blowing FPS game that is guaranteed to blow you away.
  
  Unlike traditional FPS games having modern weapons, Halos inventory of weapons and gadgets is 
 more.. futuristic. Apart from the pistol, assault rifle and rocket launcher, everything else is 
 high tech with a bigger bang to it. The enemies also represent a higher class of species with 
 a heightened A. I.
  
  The games graphics are fairly good for a XBOX-to-PC conversion. The environments are beautiful 
 but at times get a bit old because of backtracking from point A to point B. Sound is comparatively 
 better than the graphics. Gunshots, voice acting and riding a Warthog (weird name for a vehicle) 
 are just some of the brilliant voices you can hear in the game. With the exception of some repetitive 
 gameplay, Halo proves to be one of the best FPS titles available for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PopSuperFly
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  As a member of an elite military force, you must fight to defend the Earth from alien aggressors 
 on the ancient alien artifact known as Halo. You must fight your way through Halo's mountainous 
 terrain and underground labyrinth to discover the secrets of the mysterious world, and protect 
 the human race. Escaping Halo with your life requires a cunning wit and a major arsenal of weapons. 
 Switch between foot-based fighting and vehicle-based attacks, where you can pilot flyers, tanks, 
 buggies, or dropships, or man the guns while another squad member drives. Multiplayer action in 
 Halo: Combat Evolved gives players the option of co-op missions or free-for-all shootouts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazetek3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  It's really good. But I would recommend that you should try to get the Xbox version first. But 
 this is a good back up, especially for PC lovers. But a big let down was the absence of a co-op 
 mode. I mean it makes sense, but it is a bit disappointing. And the multi-player it just a total 
 disaster but it can be entertaining for a while. Although its not the greatest you wouldn't want 
 to deprive your self the opportunity to play one the best first person shooters in history.
  
  And of course the graphics are not as good as the Xbox, but they still get the point across. 
 The story is still one of the greatest. If you don't own an Xbox go out and get this version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toritofine
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, graphics arent good. Sounds is, though. The story is amazing, the idea of stopping some aliens 
 from destroying humankind is old and is used a lot, but halo felt different. Theres a good variety 
 of weapons to use, and the enemies are well designed with a decent AI. There are elites, hunters, 
 grunts, jackals and the flood. For me, the flood were too annoying and completely pointless, but 
 anyway...
  The campaing was amazing, but it got boring on some parts. I just hated going on on missions by 
 myself, with no marines and vehicles, only you and a bunch of covenants and flood. And that was 
 like half of the whole campaign, so it sort of let me down. I expected a better ending.
  Multiplayer is really fun, with so much options to play. it gets really exciting, and its the best 
 mutiplayer ive played. So, if ure looking for a good shooter that conentrates more on multiplayer 
 than the campaign, then i guess this is your best choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Much as i dont like this game, i will try to review it as fairly as i can.
  
  PROS: Game starts with a bang, very promising from the beginning. Rifle butting is pretty cool. 
 Decent enough multiplayer. Almost identical to xbox version regarding the single player, some nice 
 vehicles in there, cool grenades
  
  CONS: Frequently re-rendered hallways and rooms, only 4 types of enemies for most of the game, 
 backtracking across levels is very frustrating, firefights are too easy, AI is lackluster to say 
 the least, game is far too easy on normal mode, multiplayer is only okay, very linear, next to 
 no puzzle solving, long boring cut scenes, aliens are pathetic and pose no threat to you not to 
 mention they can talk, useless allies, useless alien weapons GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is fun for 
 the first hour or so, you will soon realise your asssult rifle is weak as a kitten, requiring 60 
 bullets to take down a single covenant elite, while clubing them kills in a few hits. There are 
 only 4 types of enemy for the most of the game making it show stoppingly repetitive. The alien 
 weapons in the game are next to useless, you cannot reload some of them and others fire such slow 
 projectiles you might as well just run up to the enemy and club them in the face. When the game 
 is set outdoors it can be somewhat enjoyable, but even still you'll just be romping around in an 
 invincible jeep or picking off your foes with the insanely powerful pistol. Most of the game, however 
 is set indoors, now i quite like indoor fps but this game takes re-rendering to a whole new level, 
 entire corridoor patterns, whole rooms and structures are used half a dozen times throughout the 
 game, not only will you gat lost countless times, be bored stupid fighting the same 4 enemies over 
 and over in the same combat locations several times but you will actually have to backtrack throught 
 the whole damn place again. I would expect that kind of stuff from a third party mod not a full 
 retail game.
  
  GRAPHICS: I dont really care about graphics at all, the graphics have style which i like but textures 
 are rough and blurry and seeing the same rooms over and over again, this doesnt do the game any 
 favours
  
  SOUND: This game at least sounds great, the guns sound powerful and pack that umpf that guns in 
 many games just lack. The talking grunts are incredibly annoying and just make the game sound stupid 
 and childish, sure theyre only there for comic relief but killing crowds of these guys ceases to 
 be fun after 20 minutes.
  
  VALUE: You can pick this game up for about 25 euro, the campaign is about 8 hours long, which is 
 awful in comparison to games like half-life. The multi player only adds a negligable amount to 
 the total value of the game, while the multiplayer is alright theres no point playing it if you 
 have unreal tounament or counterstrike, there arent many populated servers to play on any way.
 
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS: I can see why half-life and halo fans will never mix, the games are the polar opposite 
 to each other, halo lacks grittyness, enemy variation and mods. Overall i hated this game i beat 
 it for the sake of beating it, it was boring, repeditive and showed all of the signs of a poor 
 quality shooter, i wouldnt advis buying this game, borrow it from a friend first or get halo 2 
 when it comes out , thank you for reading my review and hearing my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Many good things have been said about Halo. There was so much talk about it that I decided to give 
 it a try. My first impression was that Halo: Combat Evolved is similar in some aspects to Star 
 Wars: Republic Commando (a game I enjoyed very very much) , so I was looking forward to get into 
 the action.
  
  After the first impression faded I was left quite disappointed... and the feeling didn't leave 
 until I finished the game. There was one aspect that I enjoyed and made me persevere: vehicle combat. 
 Although you can find better, the vehicle combat is solid and with a bit of tweaking it could have 
 been even better. But the on-foot game-play is unpleasant because of the way the character moves, 
 jumps, crouches etc. You simply don't feel like you character is walking, it just feels like he's 
 floating. Things like view bob, dodging or weapon blow-back are too discreet to notice and this 
 simply destroys the feel of interaction.
  
  The technical side also has a fair share of problems: the engine that powers Halo is mediocre. 
 I know, this game is 4 years old... but it still looks bad even for 2003 standards. The level design 
 is repetitive and although exteriors look decent, interiors are almost ugly. And if that wasn't 
 enough, the engine also performs bad, it has massive frame-rate drops and few special effects. 
 The sound is also weird: the covenant voices are ridiculous, most of the time you feel sorry for 
 killing them because they make the most pathetic sounds, like "Ruuun, they're gonna kill us!" or 
 something like that. The game's music is pretty hard to notice (which can only be a sign of its 
 quality) and the menu music makes you feel like you're in an orthodox church... very fitting for 
 fps isn't it? On the good side, the AI is pretty good: enemies will run for cover if you throw 
 a grenade and move quite a lot... but it's too little to save Halo from its other flaws.
  
  I've heard the multi-player is spectacular and dynamic but that's a bit off base, it is good but 
 not spectacular. I guess the right word is conventional. If you seek online thrills though, you're 
 much better off playing Unreal Tournament or Half-Life 2: Deathmatch.
  
  The game's story is nowhere to be found. Most of the time you run around knowing almost nothing 
 about you motivations. There is no info on Earth's state (other than that it's in danger) or who 
 these Covenent are (except the obvious alien invaders crap... but nothing deeper) . As a matter 
 of fact the main character himself is quite a mystery and the occasional human companions are flat 
 and uninteresting.
  
  It seems to me Halo is a wannabe-epic-game that fails... big time! I don't want to be harsh but 
 come on! 9.0?!? It's a solid experience but I could name many first-person shooters that are easily 
 above this one. Consoles is where Halo should stay, it simply can't compete in the PC arena. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennis2845
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a terrible game. I have played the game on the Xbox and the PC. It sucks eather way. I 
 don't see what you people find so interesting here. You have your standard layout in a game that 
 shoots. Graphics, shooting, walking, running, driving, blowing things up and so on. These are so 
 basic and boring. The online is no fun. It gets old so fast. The single player consists of the 
 same crap throughout the whole game. Whoever made Halo has wasted their life and whoever played 
 it all the way through, has done so as well. The worst Xbox and Computer game and Game in general, 
 that I have ever seen. A big boring headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lol_waffles
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing out of the way first. I'm not going to talk about the single-player campaign. 
 Unless you've been living under a rock for the last six years, you'll know all about Halo's single 
 player. But no.... today I will be talking about the multiplayer component of Halo.
  
  Halo for the PC is quite possibly one of the WORST console to PC ports ever created. There are 
 several reasons for this. One being that the game is horribly optimized. You'll need a high-end 
 PC to make Halo PC look as good as it did six years ago, on the Xbox. Halo PC doesn't even have 
 anti-aliasing, so you'll see jaggies no matter how high your resolution is. Then there's the completely 
 and totally bare-bones multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer is the weakest aspect of Halo PC, which is surprising. Want to vote to kick an 
 abusive player out of the game? Too bad, Gearbox didn't include that in Halo. Want to mute someone 
 who is spamming the chat? Too bad, Gearbox didn't include that in Halo. Want to specifically pick 
 out weapons that you don't want to include in the game? Too bad. Want to filter out servers that 
 have certain weapon types enabled? Too bad.
  
  Gearbox farted out this game, gave us a few patches, and then abandoned it. Cheating is very common 
 online, but Gearbox really doesn't give a damn.
  
  And then we have the community. Halo's online community is quite possibly the worst for any online 
 game, apart from Halo 2 on Xbox Live. Halo is full of stupid kids, punks, racists, homophobes, 
 jerk-offs, and people tho think they're cool when they spam the chat in all caps.
  
  If you're going to buy Halo for its single player campaign, go ahead. But if you want to play online 
 multiplayer, just stay away from Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumboforme
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved is probably the best first person shooter EVER! You play as Master Chief and 
 pretty much go blast your way through the covenant alien army. With many, many weapons and brilliantly 
 designed levels Halo won't dissapoint anyone. Halo doesn't have the best multiplayer, but the single 
 player campaign makes up for it. That's pretty much all there is to say, Halo is Awesome! Go Buy 
 the game right now! Enjoy one of the greatest games of all time! Right, I need to have a hundred 
 words in this review so ummmmm, just go buy this game right now, do ypurself a favor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  Straight forward, you have to do someting and you do it, often you pick up an extra objective while 
 doing one another. However its fun, you rarely get bored and the controls are outstanding, however 
 they should have inserted 2 options, one is the fact that you can press control once to crouch 
 and press it again to stand upright (you can change it to the original if it doesnt suit you) secondly 
 is the fact to lean sideways left and right like F. E. A. R because say you are playing on legendary 
 and are taking damage instead of showing you whole body it would make more sense to lean so only 
 your hand and the gun come out.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The graphics are good however they could have been immensly improved, however i liked the detail 
 shown when an enemy is shot. In its time this game set benchmarks, but now its hard to play a game 
 with graphics like that. Especially on PC..
  
  Sound: 
  
  Right sounds at the right time. I especially liked the opening screen and the walky talky talk 
 between the base and Cortana. It tells you what to do without being to obvious, then Cortana tells 
 you the mission after done speaking, also the when you are in danger it is really nice to hear 
 Cortana say, "Its 2 of us in hear.", "Get out of here quick.", "You are dealing too much damage." 
 and my favourite, "Echo 4-19, do you copy."
  
  Value: 
  
  Despite the graphics which mean little. This game will keep you hooked for a while due to its legendary 
 mode which will take you a while to beat and the online system which is great fun, escpecially 
 "Sidewinder." & "Blood Gultch." This game should be baught.
  
  Lifespan: 
  
  After completing easy, you will go to normal then heroic and then finally legendary and it will 
 take time beating all four, Legendary will keep you hooked as it is really hard. It is a challenge 
 and you will be too addicted and dying for a challenge to forget about playing Legendary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkeyMan2000
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  I used to be a big fan of shoot em ups but this game takes the mick. I played this game for over 
 2 hours and just saw the same damn thing over and over and over and over... you get the point. You 
 fight two different enemies, midgets who you can kill with one shot or normal sized things with 
 sheilds which do not challenge you to one bit. The range of weaponry sucked more than a whore in 
 a brothel. There is about 2 minutes of storyline, and thats it. If you want to play a good shooting 
 game, choose either Quake 2, Killzone, AvP or Medal of honor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playwrite
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  I finally borrowed a copy of Halo in order to find out what all of the fuss was about. i like to 
 think that i approached it with an open mind and that any prior bias (lets just say that i own 
 every Nintendo system, VB inclusive) was ignored. After all, i did it for Katamari, why not one 
 of the biggest games of the generation? Surely over 10 million people cant be wrong. Oh wait maybe 
 they can. Usually are too.
  
  I was astounded, therefore, to find that this massive game is possibly the worst experience I have 
 had in any game. Ever. Ill start with the good because that is quicker. The AI is fantastic and 
 its nice that they throw enemies that are smarter after you in the harder difficulty, instead of 
 increasing health (which they also do) . The sound design is also great, especially all of the little 
 phrases that the grunts throw at you. Um... the melee and grenade combat are nice additions... and 
 there is one cool map for multiplayer... Halo itself is pretty cool... yup... Thats it... Im out... on 
 with the bad.
  
  Firstly the graphics are iffy. The characters and CG look good but the frame rate is terrible unless 
 you have a really good computer and the environments are just awful looking. All of the rooms look 
 identical and the outdoor environments are un-inspired. This leads to the main problem of Halo: 
 repetition. I had to run through 3 areas that were exactly the same and then run back through them 
 again. This is common in the game. But so what as long as the game is fun right? Well, the combat 
 has the same problem. Run... shoot... run... shoot... melee... shoot... you get the picture. Even 
 sniping has lost its charm. Of course things should get mixed up with new toys and targets to use 
 them on right? Nope. By the end of the 6th level you have seen most everything. All of the weapons, 
 ships (driving is kind of fun) and enemies are completely run dry. There aren't even any boss battles 
 to speak of. The end of a level consists of fighting a particularly large number of enemies. Not 
 fun. Compare this to a game like Metroid where the game is played for the bosses. Its just not 
 right.
  
  Another serious problem is the total lack of innovation beyond the introduction of melee combat 
 and grenades without switching weapons. Ok, so they have limited you to 2 weapons, but thats a 
 BAD THING! When you are banking on your cool arsenal of weapons (of which there are only about 
 8 anyway) to sell a game, let people carry them all around for Petes sake. And there are even 
 weapons that they don't allow access too, namely the plasma sword and fuel rod gun (though to be 
 fair, the sword is in the second game and the fuel rod gun is in multiplayer) everything is extremely 
 detailed but never is caution thrown to the winds for a new idea. DOOM was more creative than this 
 (the levels were better too) . oh yeah, why does the pistol have a zoom mode? it's just a pistol. 
 no sniper scope, just a gun. and forget about silencers.
  
  Oh yeah the multiplayer. That has been a huge selling point for the game and there are plenty of 
 modes and maps to choose from. Sadly there are major flaws here too. Most of the modes are not 
 very fun and the maps often suffer from the same problems as the single player game. There are 
 a few good maps, but they really should be better. There are also terrible lag flaws, to the point 
 where you can sometimes randomly jump up several meters and fall to an untimely death. They have 
 also introduced banshees to some of the maps (including my favourite, blood gulch) which makes 
 the game unplayable to everyone not in the air.
  
  Oh yes, about the title of the review. After playing this game for a day (and beating it in that 
 time) I was so utterly depressed by the constantly regurgitated level design and game play, along 
 with the grey un-interesting environments that I couldn't pick up a controller. Not to finish Max 
 Payne (a much better game which is still nothing but shooting) , not to play super smash bros (best 
 multiplayer ever) . not even to play C&amp; C renegade (you like Halo multiplayer try this one on 
 for size) . Lets face it. This game is running on empty in the creativity department and should 
 have been buried a long time ago, along with all those E. T. carts (under them preferably) . I think 
 its sad that this will be the first generation to be remembered most fondly for such a completely 
 un-inventive game. Maybe it should have stayed a real time strategy game. Now THAT would have been 
 interesting. I guess Halo wars will show us right?
  
  Games to play instead: Metroid Prime (GCN) , Command and Conquer: Renegade (PC) , Max Payne (PC, 
 XBOX, PS2) , Metal Gear Solid (PS1, GCN) , Half-Life (PC) , DOOM (PC) , Wolfenstine (PC) , E. T.: the 
 extra terrestrial (Atari 2600) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunnaplaya
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the XBOX classic! It was the first xbox game i played and i was highly addicted. 
 Once I bought a worthy computer, I was super excited to see the PC version of the game. When i 
 bought it I played almost 24/7. A while later i bought a new computer, and oh man. With the the 
 hardware added effects of a geforce 7 series, 5.1 stereo, and fiber optic internet for multiplayer, 
 there aren't even words for it. The multiplayer was really cool with the new weapons and second 
 style warthog. Halo will definatly be around for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byonfrontier
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Well. What can I say? You probably experienced it already. One of the best XBOX selling games of 
 all.. Halo. What the heck, there're so many things to it I don't know where to start from. Halo 
 consists of an intense, story-driven single-player campaign and a immersive multiplayer mode. The 
 campaign is a good 12 hours long at the normal difficulty setting, and the dynamic nature of the 
 battles, along with the multiple, well-balanced difficulty settings, gives it good replay value. 
 Halo is famous for integrating powerful, fun-to-drive vehicles with the on-foot action, and this 
 is what distinguishes its multiplayer component from that of other shooters, though some other 
 PC shooters have also integrated vehicles more or less successfully since the original release 
 of Halo. The PC version exclusively features a couple of multiplayer-only weapons not found in 
 the Xbox version -- the flamethrower and the fuel rod gun, sort of a grenade launcher in a way -- though 
 they're not as interesting as the game's core weapons. The game picks up as the Pillar of Autumn, 
 a human warship, is under heavy attack by the alien race called the Covenant. As a last resort, 
 the ship's captain issues the order to awaken an experimental soldier from his cryogenic sleep. 
 Referred to only by rank, the Master Chief is a skilled solider equipped with a very durable environment 
 suit. He's tasked with protecting the ship's AI, Cortana, and escapes with some human marines toward 
 a mysterious ring-shaped planetoid called Halo. Halo has its own atmosphere and ecosystem, but 
 clearly it's no natural construction. There, the Master Chief (along with the surviving human marines) 
 will continue the brutal fight against the Covenant and, with Cortana's help, will uncover the 
 secrets of Halo and hopefully find a means to escape. As the MC, you have a motion tracker that 
 detects any enemies in the vicinity, as well as recharging energy shields that allow you to survive 
 against direct impact from energy or ballistic weapons. And your armor prevents you from being 
 killed outright by such attacks should your shields be depleted. All in all, Halo is still a tremendously 
 entertaining game on its own merits, and it can easily be placed in the same category as other 
 all-time greatest shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickolaslai
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  A lot of people i know have always said that Halo was just another boring sci-fi shooter and wasn't 
 worth the money for it. Then one day i just got tempted to buy this game because it was so cheap 
 and i installed in and began to play one of the best shooters in modern gaming history. I was immensely 
 impressed by the graphics, for a game out of 2003 the graphics for was just ...... do i even need 
 to say it? Superb! The graphics were amazingly lavish and detailed in every aspect. Game play is 
 a another story entirely. The game play was like a movie script because it had the element of horror, 
 suspense and betrayal. All of this add up to make one of the best sci-fi shooters in history. Levels 
 in the game are very fun and interesting because it isn't like Doom 3, where all the fighting and 
 shooting were indoors, instead it takes you to the open fields of Halo, interiors of a alien battle 
 cruiser and all the way to icy and glacier like battlefields. This game is a must-buy for every 
 FPS or sci-fi fan, so if you haven't got this game yet and you're a sci-fi fan, I think it's really 
 time for you to pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  We all have seen the big black box that led us to experience seizures while killing the Covenant 
 or the Flood. Im sure most of us played it and enjoyed it or played it and said it was for noobs. 
 We may have been arrogant enough to say, Xbox sucks Gamecube is better or Xbox sucks PS2 is 
 better. Then the pc gamers will always say, The pc is a superior game machine compared to all 
 of them. This is still true but the game Halo doesnt lend itself to helping the pcs superiority 
 situation. Three years ago, Halo made the jump from Xbox to the PC. Naturally most of us wouldnt 
 buy it because we said, its for noobs. Three years from that launch, I finally picked up Halo 
 for the pc and for $20 who can complain. I owned an Xbox for one year and had maybe five games 
 for it that never really held my attention. Except Halo 2 held my ADHD at bay for at the most two 
 days and whenever friends ever came over to play games. I sold my Xbox after a year to buy Call 
 of Duty 2, and F. E. A. R for my pc and to have some extra spending money. Halo while it had mouth-watering 
 visuals on the Xbox falls through on the PC because Gearbox failed to upgrade the graphics for 
 the PC version. While not always aesthetically pleasing the game lends itself to just how far graphics 
 have come in the years and for a game made in 2003 it still plays well. Which is what brings us 
 to what Halo really is; a game with intense interactive game play and a engaging story that looks 
 to bring you into a unique Sci-Fi world. Out dated graphics usually would lead someone to think 
 that the in game sound is not up to PC standards. Well this is wrong as when the action gets intense 
 in this one-man war the music score will rip through your speakers and command you to listen to 
 it. Random pops and static will rip through headphones and speakers occasionally and especially 
 when you see the LoadingDone in the top of the screen. With that transition, we are at the loading 
 times for this game and it is almost none maybe five seconds at the most when loading the game 
 from the menu screen. Loading times such as five seconds to load has been unheard of for a while 
 with games like Battlefield 2 taking a minute or more to load. This is true for loading into multiplayer 
 also. If you are not one who is good at console games because of the controllers used then you 
 may find Halo multiplayer fun. On the other hand, if you are the opposite you will like it better 
 on the Xbox. Then again, you could be like me and not like it on either one because you for some 
 reason just cant grasp Halo multiplayer. Even though I didnt enjoy multiplayer over the internet 
 I can guarantee that you will have fun if you have a LAN with some friends and smack talk a lot. 
 Those are just my quick thoughts on this outdated game for the PC. Everyone knows the story no 
 matter what console you play and while Gearbox didnt do the best job bringing the game to the 
 pc because some textures look horrible and like your grandmas outdated 1950s home this game is 
 enjoyable if you have $20 to blow. The game really wasnt optimized much so even on high end systems 
 you will run into some performance problems. So if your waiting for christmas or just dont have 
 the money to buy Battlefield 2142 or a brand new game pick this up to keep you going till December 
 25h or 24th if youre greedy and want to get yelled at by your wife, girlfriend, or parents. The 
 game is enjoyable and fun and most pc gamers will like the story and very intense game play. Reviewed 
 on:
  Pentium D 3.2ghz
  ATI X1900XT w/256MB
  2gb G. Skill 160GB Hard Drive
  Audigy 2 ZS Sound Card 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is too addictive. I put it in my cd-rom and i installed it. So i click single player 
 first to get the hang of it. Some parts of the people were a little blockish at times but i'll 
 let it go. The is awesome but thats not why people like this game for PC. They like it because 
 of the fact that you can play online, i'll tell you more about it right now. Multiplayer has tons 
 of games such as capture the flag and slayer which are the 2 most popular ones. Then you have choose 
 the map. Everymap has diffrent weapons and even some wheels and planes. Then you can join a game 
 with others to compeate to see who is the best. well this was a short review but oh well. Bye! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmiity
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Halo 1 on Pc. My friends pestered me so much, and I heard so much hype over it, I finally bought 
 it.
  
  I love this game.
  
  The campaign is decent at best. I had no idea what the heck was going on, maybe it was just me, 
 but the story was so-so. The FRAMERATE SUCKS, and is totally lame, makes the campaign seem laggy. 
 But, I loved just pumping people full of lead, very fun.
  
  Another Rant, the level design is so recycled, your probably using it as paper right now. Everything 
 looks exactly the same, but its actually not that confusing. There are many checkpoints, so if 
 you die it doesn't matter, you start up 5 seconds before you died.
  
  Moving onto the gold of this game. THE MULTIPLAYER!
  
  Holy crap, the multiplayer is absolutely 
 amazing, the most fun thing I have ever played, and surpasses even most MMORPG games. Join a server 
 and just blast people, absolutely astonishing. It never gets old, never gets frustrating, this 
 is Halo. This game gets a Great for the multiplayer only. Do the campaign if you really just want 
 to know the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  its a good game because the multiplayer i realy good only sometimes its laggy but there also special 
 anti marjor patches (not tested yet) sound is realy nice! only one thing i had see in the singel 
 player that blue monster
  dont know the name likes on the monster of metroid prime! thats a little rip off but the vehicles 
 are good to they have good thinking on the design of the vehicles graphics are a little bit poor 
 now but thats comes because the new consoles new hadware games i mean it whith other words next 
 genaration games they are realy much better with the graphics but thats not botter me
  i have seeing to a Fake halo game The name of it is Halo Custom Edition
  that rip off is realy 
 muc better because developed people can creat their own maps and make Robots as well! thats a little 
 bit badly that the makers of Halo combat evolved not make a plugin to make your own maps and weapons! 
 do you like to download the custom maps and the halo ce (halo custom edition) go to this site http://www. halomaps. org 
 this not illigal because you must use you real serial number! one thing of halo ce is
  you cant do singel player but its a exelent game! good job microsoft! and the maker of halo custom 
 edition! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanverse
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best First-Person-Shooter that I have ever played ever on any system. I 
 know that there have been other greats like Doom, but Halo is something different. The game play 
 is so smooth, its nuts! And, I could play the game 100 times and it still would be fun. Ive beaten 
 the game on Legendary 15 times, and the game is different every time that I play it, the AI is 
 awesome, and the weapons are the best of any game that I have played. The only part of the game 
 that I dont like is the level the Library, it gets so monotonous it really makes me mad. Other 
 than that, I Love This Game!!! Peace Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicpotter
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a FPS that places you as the main character Spartan-117 a. k. a. Master Chief. Coming from 
 someone who has never played the X-Box version it's a great title filled with creatures that scared 
 me at first and some annoying ones that run away afer every shot you take at them. I have only 
 played part of the first level of the X-Box version at my cousins house so i can't really compare 
 them but I'll try to review it as a stand alone game.
  
  STORY The game starts when Master Chief (the character you control for the game) Is woken up from 
 a chronilogical sleep. It seems some aliens, The Covenant, are pretty ticked off at Earth and decide 
 to take an assault on the spaceship, Pillar of Autum. This is where you come in. I won't go any 
 further into the story but the plot information that everyone saw as great and unexpected just 
 wasn't interesting to me. I didn't see SPOILER!
  super ninja space zombie pies coming /SPOILER!
  but I wasn't suprised that it happened.
  The 
 setting is pretty basic, aliens want to kill Earth, only one man can save Earth, He grabs a gun 
 and has himself mocked as stupid in newgrounds paradies..
  
  GAMEPLAY The gameplay is like many FPS are pretty linear but there's something about the vehicles 
 that i just like. Maye since you use your mouse to direct the vehicle around instead of a&amp; d 
 (I, myself perfer arrow keys over the whole wasd thing) The levels you go through are pretty long 
 and the shoot 'em up style gets boring after awhile in story mode. (Yeah fan boys I know campaign 
 but thats hard to type and I'm tired.) Thats the only flaw in the gameplay, repetitive but you 
 still come back for more which i guess helps bungie.
  
  MULTIPLAYER The best thing about this game is the multiplayer. The CTF is really fun and willl 
 grip you in as you jump in your first game. Everything in this game has a downside though. For 
 this it's 7 year-old kids that play hookey during grammar &amp; english classes to play this. Hopefully 
 you won't end up with one.
  
  OVERALL The game once again id great and has few but aggervating downsides (pikachuluvR911 I'm 
 looking and holding neon signs that point at you!) If you ask me, ' Is that a real username?' My 
 ansewer's gonna be, ' I wouldn't rule it out.' I digress, Halo is a great title that you should 
 definatly pick up if you haven't allready since the past five years. My score: 8.2. Thanks for 
 reading my review and have a good day or night or whatever the hell it is where you are. Not you 
 pikachuluvR911 you have a bad day at scholl like i do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  I really adore this game more than the Xbox version. I have a pretty decent P. C. and my PC runs 
 this game like a mother **** and it looks amazing much better than the XBOX game I really like 
 it and I can't wait for Halo 2 on PC cause I really like the graphics for that game so far too. 
 But just as amazing as the graphics is gotta be the great dialogue voice acting and Awesome Orchestral 
 Score it's just one of my fav right now. The gameplay really works out on both a controller and 
 keyboard mouse set up because it's so slick, but playing with joytech controller that looks exactly 
 like the XBOX controller is very fun. When it comes to value the game goes over the minimum lasting 
 value for the game took more than 12 hours to complete, then the multiplayer which I owned at alot 
 lol I mean there's just so many modes and it's so fun. The story for this game was really really 
 great it mixes up the Flood the Covenant the Spartan Warrior all in a friggin' Halo that of which 
 can not be spoilt of what Halo really is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I got this recently for my b-day and never thought it was going to be so good!
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. Its got a great story line but the best part of this game has to be 
 the online multiplayer. You can create or join any games in a matter of about 30 seconds! I play 
 with my friend all the time. Good wepons ( i love the sniper!!! lol ) .
  
  The graphics are pretty good aswell. Nothing really special but trust me you dont give a **** when 
 your playing. It also looks cool when you die and thats a bonus.
  
  The sound is also amazing. Each gun having a unique sound and you can even hear your own footsteps 
 as well as others. So you can hear people coming lol. But seriously alot of detail has been put 
 in the sound. It has great value as you can go and pick it up for around 14.99. Or if you go to 
 gamestation they sometimes even sell it for 10.00. Great value.
  
  You have to buy this game as it is probally one of the best pc games of all time. Great value for 
 your money so you get good fun for a cheap price. A definate buy for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoopDog1027
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This Halo for the PC is almost the same thing as the Xbox version but with even more.
  
  Since the Xbox didn't have Xbox Live when Halo come with online modes and they didn't make a remake 
 with Xbox Live. (Which they should've.) Thank god for Halo on the PC then! The online is smooth 
 and fun. I haven't gotten lagged out of one game yet! And there's mods, because everyone likes 
 a good cheater! Graphics look the same as the Xbox version and the controles are well layed out.
 
  
  Yet, there is a downfall. The PC version has a lot of framerate problems when something blows up 
 on any computer! So your forced to turn off the dust particles on the options screen.
  
  In the end, Halo is a great experience for anyone who owns a computer, and the online mode gives 
 you more of a reason to get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Though it 1st release for x box, but later it make a great victory in the pc over the other 1st 
 person shooting game. Thanks for Microsoft, Bangi and Gearbox software to make a great game like 
 this and specially thanks to release the pc version. In easy word, the game is really amazing. 
 Its story is good too, though not as much attractive as the others. Offcourse you have seen that 
 1st person shooting games stroyline is not a fact right? This is a science fiction game. The plot 
 is future. Where alien rules the planet by planet. and mankind going smaller and smaller day by 
 day. So, in this situation, the captain of the mother ship of mankind decided to raise the super 
 solder called master chief. This is our hero. for your kind information, Halo is the name of a ring 
 shaped planet, where our hero try to stop the allien with the help of most powerfull talking super 
 computer. Everything is clear here. You have a rudder to locate the enemy and your allied. Our 
 masterchief is strong enough to take care of a group of enemy. bt the life system is some how different 
 here from the other games. here you have a shield which can take moderate damage from the enemy. n 
 when u r not infront of enemy, it will recharge itself. the AI of the opponent is great. They will 
 try to put u out from hidden place and force you to shield you down and make you die! So beware 
 of these! Here you have to visit many place to complete yout object. Vehicle drive is one of the 
 most amazing part of this game. You can drive almost all vehicle that seen in this game. like tank, zeep, fighter 
 plane and so on...... You can also drive the machine gun, plasma gun site. This is so much fun. 
 Sometimes you will fight enemy when man force are sight by sight with you. And sometimes you are 
 all alone. The graphysics is great. Sometimes when you play the game, you can see the ring shaped 
 planet's half one and that is superbe. And the sound. thats amazing. one thing i must say that you 
 never feel bore to play this game. as there are many weapons, and many ways to kill your opponent, this 
 is to much fun to play the game. While you playing tha game, the HALO Fever will impact both of 
 your body and mind to the game. This is really surprising. The game have own world. A world where 
 u have to fight through the enemy, to save the mankind. Man i can never finish the review lol..... 
 If you need my opinion, play the game. And become a member of HALO era! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10: The gameplay on Halo is some of the best FPS gameplay that you can find. There are 
 more weapons, and more ways to kill your enemies in Halo than there is in other shooters, and the 
 gameplay is always more intense. The enemies you face are very smart, and you must be very tactical 
 to outsmart them. Halo doesn't have a lot of innovative things to seperate it from other shooters, 
 yet the core gameplay in it is far better than in most other FPS's. Graphics 8: The graphics in 
 Halo aren't entirely excellent at times, and some of the backgrounds don't look so excellent, yet 
 it is a pretty old game, and overall the graphics are still pretty good. Sound 10: All the audio, 
 sound effects, and voices are all executed nearly perfectly. Value 9: The single player campaign 
 in Halo isn't especially long, yet it does have mutliple difficulty settings, and extremlly fun 
 online multi-player will keep you coming back to this game for awhile. Overall 9.3/10 Overall Halo 
 is a game no shooter fan should miss out on. The story is good, the gameplay is fun, and the audio 
 is excellent. If you're a fan of shooters, definetly don't miss out on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Even if this game is an old game for todays standards, if you play it today you will still think 
 is a great game. The story is the strongest piece of it, which is rare for what is basically a 
 traditional shooter with a nice set-up. The gameplay is also very good, but not much different 
 from any other shooters around, however the surrounding environment is something that will keep 
 you on your toes all the time as you advance through the game, and sometimes, if you play it with 
 headphones and in a relatively dark room, it can scare you as there is no place to hide from or 
 to stop the multiple attacks while the music and weapons firing keeps you looking around like a 
 mad man. I would say that this, together with the great history, are the strengths of the game.
 
  
  One of the good things is that you dont have a real clue on whats going on and why you are really 
 there or what are you fighting for. Confusion is all around you, and even if your are forced to 
 fight for survival, youll never get a real grasp of the massive events that are developing in 
 the galaxy, and you will even end the game without a good understanding on just what happened, 
 and will understand that the future is very uncertain, as usual. This is something not very common 
 in shooters, and I recommend you keep this in mind while you advance through the game
  
  In terms of the character, your character is a bit of a mystery, but the way he acts is very predictable 
 as in other shooters: Shoot your way around to move forward. Period. I know, thats why the game 
 is a shooter, but if you had played other shooters before you will feel that Halo is not much different 
 from lets say, Quake I, and that can make you feel bored in some levels where the only thing you 
 have o do is shoot, shoot and shoot. Thats why I recommend you to always remember what I said 
 in the previous paragraph. The addition of vehicles is a nice touch that helps to differentiate 
 Halo from other shooters the Banshee ship is a very nice machine to fly-, but it is seldom determinant 
 on the outcome of the game, basically until the end of it.
  
  Another good thing worth to mention is the soundtrack. The way it is structured and how it kicks 
 in the different situations you are facing is very well coordinated with the environment and the 
 kind of fight you are in. In this regard, this a very well though game, and even if the soundtrack 
 doesnt reach the level of preeminence it reaches in games like Beyond Good &amp; Evil, GTA Vice 
 City or Grim Fandango, it is still something that differentiates the game from the horde of PC 
 games available
  
  Taking aside the expected outdated graphics, the only considerable regret I may have for the game 
 is that it becomes repetitive too often. Several times you have to just shoot, shoot and shoot 
 endlessly to a point that you get bored, because the game is not that difficult, even at the hardest 
 levels. It is rare to find you out of ammo or in a situation you cant escape by just running or 
 hiding, and that is not something that really challenges your ability as a gamer. Many times I 
 found myself just advancing through the game to see whats next, without enjoying the situation 
 I was in, which is not a good thing to say of an action shooter But overall this is a great game, 
 and I will recommend it to anyone that enjoys shooters. Also, think about that if you dont play 
 Halo and live the history building around you, you wont be able to enjoy Halo II or the upcoming 
 Halo III the same way. You need to play Halo to get a real grasp of the whole series, even if you 
 think it maybe an old game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I remember me and my friend playing this game in a Toys R Us and not being able to put it down. 
 It was then that I decided I needed an Xbox. So i got one for Xmas, along with this game. Truly 
 superb was my first impression, and it has lasted. However, there are some sloppy things about 
 this game. For example, the later levels, you actually have to go back on yourself and replay through 
 certain maps you have already visited. This doesnt help in making you feel like your progressing, 
 and replaying maps is never fun. My other problem with this game is the Flood. As much of a novel 
 and interesting idea the Flood is, in the end, theyre just incredibly tiresome. The Flood, if you 
 dont know, is some sort of alien race that is out to kill everything in pure zombie/facehugger 
 fashion. This isnt the main species of alien you fight, and if I remember rightly you only face 
 them a couple times in the game, but while you do fight them, the game turns into a brainless, 
 tiresome blast em up, so unlike the rest of it. However, the rest of the game sparkles incredibly 
 and the multiplayer is a pure blast. Definetely the best game on Xbox, only rivalled by Halo 2.
 
  
  The Good - Top notch graphics - Vehicles are fun - Good multiplayer
  
  The Bad - Campaign starts to repeat itself later on - The Flood!!! - Possibly a little overrated? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  halo combat evolved is a nice game with a nice single player, with a HUGE multiplayer, it's a legendary 
 game on XBOX but also on PC, the gameplay is nice but if it would have a bit more weapons, it would 
 be a very good game but the guns are so inacurate or they are very strond but very low-range, there 
 is not a weapon you can play a whole map with, you need to switch weapons the whole stime, sometimes 
 that's nice but sometimes not.
  nice game
  
  some positive sides:
  -nice single-player
  -nice multi-player
  -low price!!!!!! (about 15)
  -good graphics
  
 -sweet timeline
  
  some down-sides (like every game got some)
  - not a large choice of weapons
  - don't plat multi with a small broadband (20kb/sec is to low)
 
  
  that's about it, buy the game and play you all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair29
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I think this game rules. I have played it with multiple friends and it was a blast. This game is 
 perfect for parties (assuming you have the xbox version) and the story is excellent. The AI kinda 
 sucks, but it is still a lot of fun to flank jackals and grunts, but elites are a little too hard 
 to flank without suppressing fire. Hunters might be some of the hardest enemies in the game. They 
 are covered in armor and there only weak spot is their backs. The weapons are some of the coolest 
 I have seen yet. The needler that shoots explosive needles that can bounce off walls and the plasma 
 weaponry which shoots plasma are both extremely cool concepts that I haven't ever seen before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jriley84
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Fun game to play if you are just wanting to relax and not worry about the extra area over here, 
 or the special item you have to pick up. It sticks to the basics and lets you just find your way 
 through the game it is like. Great game can't wait to finish it. The hardest part about the game 
 was learning were to go or if you were going back in the direction you came from in less you were 
 cut off or the door was there ect. My whole outlook on the game is that it is easy it was not hard 
 to learn how to do certain thing in the game they made it very good and also very easy and even 
 more from how long i have been playing it very very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_boy286
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is great is just one really fun FPS. The story and actual game are the same as on the 
 x-box but insted of buying x-box life the online is free and very simple. in online play you get 
 the flame thrower and th fuel rod gun. these are only for the pc version of this game during online. 
 Also the grafics are the same but look much more clear on the pc moniter then on the x-box dont 
 ask me why it just dose! over all its a fun game ide rather get this then the x-box version because
 
  1) much more clear pictuer
  2) has new online only guns
  3) the online is free 4) i just plane think its a better deal then on the x-box 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juniordief
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a great first person shooter. The campaign was lengthy enough to keep me occupied for quite 
 a while, and even when you beat that you still have the multiplayer gameplay. The graphics are 
 great. The gameplay is great. The sound is pretty impressive. And it only costs 20 bucks! So all-in-all 
 its a very nice game. GO GET IT NOW!!!!
  
  This is a great first person shooter. The campaign was lengthy enough to keep me occupied for quite 
 a while, and even when you beat that you still have the multiplayer gameplay. The graphics are 
 great. The gameplay is great. The sound is pretty impressive. And it only costs 20 bucks! So all-in-all 
 its a very nice game. GO GET IT NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  First off, if you are an xbox halo player, there is nothing in this game for you. it is essentially 
 the same game. this is a great game. its one of those games that you just get into. You start playing, 
 times flying by while you're completely immersed into its brilliance. I love halo. I used to play 
 the game online at my friends house, and didnt get the opportunity to buy it for myself since i 
 do not own an xbox. And luckily for me, they made it for PC as well. And as far as I can tell, 
 its just as good, if not better. though the frame rate slows a bit sometimes, that might just be 
 my computer. And while there may be better looking games on the market now, its still not bad looking. 
 it looks really good. It is not to late to pick up this title and enjoy if you've never had the 
 pleasure of playing it. Classic's are never too old to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Well pray that your computer has thousands of dollars put into it. Also I will begin using more 
 grades for this game.
  
  Story: You are Master Cheif [stupid name, but kick ass cyborg] who is fighting the Covenant with 
 the Marines and in the middle the flood is released and you need to kill an entire planet.
  
  Gameplay: Great since it is Halo with a keyboard, but if you have a weak computer tou will 
 get 5 FPS at times. The AI is smart and will dodge you using several weapons and work as a team. 
 And your marines [if you have them that is] will follow you and use great stratgey.
  
  Controls: Being able to make your own really helps make Halo better for those who have controlers. 
 And a mouse is a far better aiming tool than a analog stick.
  
  Graphics: That depends if you are using a high end PC or a hand me down Windows 98 [me : ( ] . The 
 graphics can be barely under the X Box one to looking like a great N64 or a bad PS2 game with horrendous 
 Frame rate. But if your PC is good you can get some pretty pictures out of the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  It sounds a lot like the X BOX one so that is great. The Guns sound like Guns, the 
 humans sound good, the Covenant sound good. Multiplayer: Great, you can play online with 2 new 
 weapons. The hunter cannon also used by Grunts later in the game and a flamethrower. You also got 
 a lot of levels [but most just go to blood gulch] but sadly lag can plague you. no matter how good 
 your PC is.
  
  Replayability: Good, you have multiplayer and a fun single player mode. But when the game slows 
 down you may want to fling the disc out a window.
  
  Overall: A good port but the high end requirements of this age screw it hard.
  
  Rent or Buy: 
 Buy if your PC can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_mario_128
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Some would call it the best FPS ever. Some say it's overhyped. I say it's a little hit and miss. 
 The single player campaign isn't as good as many shooters campaigns, it is a little short and boring 
 in some bits. The graphics are very good for a console, there isnt much music but the sound effects 
 of the vehicles weapons etc are quite realistic. When you play into 2 or 3 levels the game seems 
 very epic with large areas and great vehicles. The online is probably the best multiplayer experience 
 ever for me. The only problem is the lack of maturity, you get people saying stuff not suitable 
 for this review but otherwise it's a very enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  this game , i think its the best game in the world (my opinion) . i have it on computer and xbox. 
 the computer one, ill give it around 8.5 because there is a glitch were yo could go up in the air, 
 the tanks fly is u shot it some times, when you move, you move to another place. thats the bad 
 part, but the good part is, the game is easy to control, prety good graphics and good campain. 
 lots of people say that halo: combat evolved have a better campain then the halo 2. in xbox, the 
 halo's graphic is much better (ill give it 10) and better controll then computers. when i first 
 played this game, i whent to online and play some people. you'll get better by playing the multiplayer 
 and a little in campain because the covents are weak (exept hunters) . i beat the game in about 
 2 day, 3 day because i spend more time in multiplayer then campain. this game is old but i still 
 think its a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 5, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Bungie studios hailed Halo as the evolution of the first person shooter on the computer when it 
 was first announced at E3 many years ago. This might have been true if the game had been released 
 on the computer first, but it went to the Xbox first, only later to be brought to the PC. The delay 
 has turned a game that had a sense of originality and substance into another me too clone that 
 is saved from total mediocrity by its epic story.
  
  Halo puts you in the role of a super solder simply known as Master Chief. Not much is known about 
 your past except that you were genetically engineered for the role of expert combat soldier. The 
 story wastes no time putting you into the thick of action as you awake in the middle of a Covenant 
 invasion of your ship. The Covenant is a race of beings that have been at war with the human race 
 for some time. They are competent fighters that have a simple grasp of the English language. The 
 only way to escape the impending loss is to take the AI of the ship, named Cortana, and set the 
 self-destruct sequence before any emergency codes are compromised. Cortana is your guide and assistant 
 on your journey. She is an Artificial Intelligence construct that gives you advice and helps move 
 certain story elements along. A lot of times, she helps with getting you in the right direction 
 when you get lost. She is never really annoying and we only hear her for the most part. She also 
 saves your butt by directing you to an open escape vehicle with the destination of Halo.
  
  Halo is a flat world that is formed on the inside of a giant ring. It is a massive structure that 
 looks like it would possibly wrap around the Earth. It has a bustling environment with mountains, 
 beaches, and many grassy plains. It also is swarming with Covenant soldiers that are looking to 
 put a big time hurt on Master Chief and anyone associated with him. Halo is full of ruins that 
 may have the key to destroying the Covenant. It is investigating these ruins where things start 
 to take a turn when you find an unheard of third faction called simply The Flood. The Flood, is 
 a mysterious entity that shocks you with a sheer numbers and turns the story on its end.
  
  This is Halos strongest point and that is the sheer amount of back-story that is built into the 
 game. Halo is not defined by its actions, but by its story and environment. The action in the game 
 is generic and lacking any true sense of innovation. You have an imposed weapons limit of two weapons 
 at any one time along with grenades. Your health is never really of an issue as you have a constant 
 recharging shield that helps with defending you during the more challenging attacks. It never really 
 takes any steps to stick out from the crown. This isnt a bad thing, but with all the hype that 
 has followed the game over its development, you are given a sense of the next coming of the first 
 person shooter. The story, however, takes control and makes sure to keep you entertained and guessing. 
 Without the amazing script that fuels the game, you would be left with an average shooter at best, 
 albeit with good looking visuals.
  
  The world of Halo is allowed to star in front of the characters. With the improved draw distance 
 of a computer video card, the world of Halo truly becomes a sight to behold. Snow-capped mountains, 
 rolling hills freckled with green grass and beaches with soft surf capture the beauty of Halo. 
 Stopping to look around, you never get tired of the scenery that surrounds you. Interior design 
 is not as unique, but locations like the Library certainly stand out and grab you. Character animation 
 is good, but never great. It lacks originality. Master Chief and Cortana are afforded a lot of 
 complex detail and this stands out with their emoting. Master Chief is a man of few words, but 
 emotes with a lot of posturing and the engine captures this with amazing results. The downside 
 is all this focus on the main characters trades off with a lack of other enemies and squad mates. 
 You will only come across four to five enemy types from both faction and none stand out with any 
 sense of imagery. It is amazing feat to have the backgrounds stick out over the main characters, 
 but Halo has done this with its visuals and boosted by its amazing score.
  
  The music in Halo never plays second fiddle to the story. It goes hand in hand with its classical/ 
 new age style. Never overbearing, the score is dramatic and really invokes feeling in the game. 
 Not since Call of Duty, has a soundtrack used dramatic scoring to such effect. You feel the battles 
 turning towards or against you as the dynamic score changes. It is an effective tool and has set 
 the bar for how a score should influence the game. Muzzle sounds from the weapons in the game are 
 good, but never have that added push that you want to stimulate the ears. Voices are minimal for 
 enemies and friends alike, but even with limited dialogue, Master Chief sounds great with his deadpan 
 delivery. Think Arnold Schwarzenegger back in his heyday without the corny one-liners and you have 
 a good idea of the Master Chief. Vehicle sounds are good and have a nice throaty sound. Mashing 
 the pedal in a Warthog results in a lion-like roar from the engine in response.
  
  Vehicles are present in the game and play a small but important part in the game. Using a Warthog, 
 you can transport several troops that will rid on the rails of the vehicle. They will even work 
 the turret. Taking over the flying vehicles of the enemy is a different experience altogether and 
 is a bit difficult to get a handle on with the mouse/keyboard control scheme. While the vehicles 
 are nice and do get you through some major plot points, it never feels like they give you a big 
 advantage over the enemy. There is a passionate community that has built upon the game to expand 
 it with countless mods and maps that will add to the value of the game. Multiplayer is present 
 and gives you more bang for your buck. Getting online is pretty simple and you will find a decent 
 sized group of people that are still playing the game online. Personally, I did not spend much 
 time with the multiplayer component, but there is enough there to expand the game for you at the 
 end of the single player campaign.
  
  Halos biggest problem is that it is just like its Xbox bretheren. There is no added content in 
 the single player experience on the PC. The multiplayer makes up for some of this, but if you already 
 own the game on the Xbox, you may have to convince yourself whether it is worth purchasing this 
 game on the PC. Also, beyond the story, there is nothing
  
  Halo offers a standard first person shooter experience that is raised above most of the competitors 
 due to a solid story and pacing. Orchestral effects add to this to provide more drama. You will 
 have fun with the game as long as you arent looking for a revolutionary experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanchuman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  most of u guys are probably familiar with halo 2. great game fair cussing here and there. but the 
 storyline, it stanked. halo has everything except for the cussing and should be one of the best 
 fps. there are simple guns, easy control over vehicles and nice gameplay. the graphics were probably 
 the best when it came out. i just regret that i didn't get it immediately when it was just released. 
 what though would be better if u could duel weild or have the new halo 2 sheild. that would have 
 mad the game a lot more fun. but it can't be more fun than chasing a grunt around. overal, this 
 is a game i would play over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved received rave reviews when it was released, but I failed to see why. To me, 
 the game resembled so many other first-person shooters which preceded it.
  
  The storyline did not strike me as remarkable; the player assumed control of a futuristic soldier 
 whose job it was to eradicate aliens.
  
  While the graphics were impressive, and the play areas were large and nicely rendered, the repetitiveness 
 of blasting scores of aliens became quickly tiring.
  
  The one enjoyable aspect of the game that I found lied in piloting the Warthog jeep. Bombing through 
 the landscape in an all-terrain vehicle was a nice addition to a genre which has neared being played 
 out.
  
  While Halo: Combat Evolved was a fun game, I have played better first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bushidoboi1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  well, HELPED make shooters. yes, I know fps's were made a while ago, but this was a major stepping 
 stone in fps. any-who, on to the review. the gamepaly is incredible! I never thought running up 
 to small aliens and bashing them in the head with a gun was so fun! but, some of the levels were 
 long and repeditive...9/10 for gameplay. graphics were a bit disippointing, but I guess the designers 
 had to make sacrifices...8/10 for graphics. sound was excellent! gunshot sounds really suited the 
 weapon they were for, but something was missing...9/10. This game is a must have, if you have never 
 played, heard, of seen this game, you live under a rock, 10/10 for value. altogether it has it's 
 faults, but has even more strong points. 9/10 for tilt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbayay
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing but awesome. Entertainment like this really puts you in the mood to want to 
 keep playing and find out what will happen next in the level. The gameplay is simply great because 
 the controls are easy to memorize allowing you to switch weapons quickly and plan your shots. The 
 aliens are very smart, and they know when to take cover (usually) . They are also funny at times 
 like when you sneak up behind a grunt, and it sees you, it screams and runs away. One of the greatest 
 features of the game is multiplayer. Very entertaining, especially when you want to take a break 
 from the campaign and play with your friends or just any random people. The one problem about it 
 is that if one person lags in a game and you have a great server, it might affect other people 
 and make them lag. Otherwise there isn't really any other problems. This game is worth your money 
 if you love shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDICK_2005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Hey just bought this game, had nothing really else to do. Halo has so much hype around it and that 
 usually wreaks that game. And it almost did for me but then i accomplished alot in the game and 
 fould that this game is cool and worth playing. But now that i am playing in this day and age that 
 graphics needed help. But the AI is surprizingly good for that time, and the story is cool to, 
 but the level design is to repetative, all the zigzags and round abouts, it get bouring and a little 
 frustrating at times.
  
  But overall this game is worth buying and i have only played the campain, the on-line is a whole 
 new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much every gamer out there has at least heard something about Halo. It is the most popular 
 first person shooter for the console but now it's moved onto the PC where first person shooters 
 live. Even with all the competition of other computer fps out there, Halo: Combat Evolved still 
 holds up nicely and it's just a fun game to play. Halo is starting to get pretty old now, especially 
 with Halo 2 out with the xbox but it still holds up nicely. The main reason is because the gameplay 
 plays out really well. It's hard to describe but it's just a solid fun shooter. There&amp;'s nothing 
 that stands out from the game from other good fps but even then, it holds up nicely.
  
  It's that everything is really solid. The weapons feel great, the control is nice, and the HUD 
 really works well. Vehicles work surprisingly well and are controlled quite differently from other 
 games with vehicles (takes a bit of getting used to if you're new) . The AI is really good as well; 
 the enemies are realistic in the way they act. The game takes place in the future but it's not 
 totally a run and gun shooter but its not completely tactical either. It's a very good mix and 
 it's one of the main reasons why the game works out so well.
  
  The story is also something to take note of. It's really well done and the campaign works out really 
 nicely. I especially enjoyed fighting the covenant and the last timed mission is a great way to 
 end the game. I, however found the game surprisingly short. I never played Halo for the xbox but 
 I played Halo 2. Everyone complained how short it was in comparison to the original Halo. I found 
 Halo 2 a descent length for a fps. However, I found Halo: Combat Evolved, the same length or even 
 shorter than its sequel. I beat the game in one day (I don't think I ever did this before with 
 a full length game) . I played a lot of it but I still only got 7 hours out of the campaign on the 
 first run.
  
  The multiplayer is also really well done. It's one of the reasons why Halo 2 is so popular for 
 the xbox. What's more fun though is the lan. Most of my hours probably went into playing lan into 
 the game. I wish there would be bots in this game but even without any, the game is still enjoyable. 
 The game's style just makes it a fun game to play with friends. Also, lan is a great choice because 
 you can get around the lag issue that's online. I experienced pretty bad lag online. A 'good' server 
 I went to, most people had 220 ping or more. And that's one of the better ones. The game just has 
 a terrible anti-lag system. It takes quite a bit away from the experience but the game does have 
 a bit more content in the online portion compared to the xbox version.
  
  Overall, Halo is just a fun game to play, especially with friends or just replaying the campaign. 
 The great campaign and gameplay really boost the value of the game and the multiplayer aspect doesn' 
 hurt either. The singeplayer could have been longer and the online experience could have had better 
 anti-lag support and servers but other than that, it's defiantly a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesbox
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I haven't seen that many of Microsofts games, but the ones I have seen seem a bit of a let down. 
 Halo is a fun game to play but I think with a bit more thought and less nannying you through the 
 levels it would be exhilarating.
  
  There are some good ideas put in to the game and it was very popular when released, but it doesn't 
 get me going like other first person shooters.
  
  The weapons are a bit un-inspired and the gameplay seems a bit limiting. What could have been a 
 hair raising FPS seems to be a bit too sloppy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adams95
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Halo was originally released exclusively for the X-Box but a couple of years after it has finally 
 come to the PC. Halo for the PC is missing the co-op single player mode because of coding or something 
 like that but there is some new content for multiplayer. This includes online multi-player, maps, 
 weapons which includes a flamethrower!
  
  The single player is lacking a bit compared to other first-person shooters. The main game mostly 
 consists of shooting the same enemies for ten levels. What helps the main game to be better is 
 the fairly large more open ended levels. Also different vehicles can be used to which include Warthogs 
 and Banshees. The single player part of the game is good overall, there should have been some bosses 
 in the game and be longer. The multi-player part of the game is a totally different story. There 
 are lots of well designed maps in the multiplayer the best of these maps are Blood Gulch, Sidewinder, 
 Timberland and Ice Fields. There are many different match types to like slayer which is the same 
 as a death match. There is also capture the flag, oddball, race and king of the hill. Capture the 
 flag is the same as on other first-person shooters where you need to steal the enemies flag and 
 bring it back to your base, this is a lot of fun especially with lots of people. Oddball is another 
 fun game where you need to hold a skull for as long as possible. And the other great game king 
 of the hill is a lot of fun too probably the best on Battle Creek its pretty hectic. In king you 
 need to stay in this ring for as long as possible and fight off the enemies.
  
  The weapons in the multi-player offer a lot of different types like the single player game. There 
 are Covenant weapons such as the Needler and Plasma rifle which gives the game a more wider variety 
 of weapons. There are also all the normal weapons to if you dont like using unrealistic guns although 
 I like them. All the vehicles in the single player can also be used in the multiplayer mode which 
 makes the multiplayer even better than it already is. When using Warthogs other players can get 
 on the back and shoot the gun on the back which is really cool. The game-play of Halo is very good 
 its very much like any other shooter on the PC. The aiming is smooth an accurate, although you 
 can only carry two weapons at a time, this in my opinion makes the game more realistic. Its not 
 like someone can actually carry 20 guns at one time.
  
  The graphics remain pretty much the same as the X-Box version. The graphics are quite good but 
 not the best Ive seen. The games levels look nice but there tends to be a lot of jagged lines 
 on buildings. Halo is not the best looking, but needs a pretty powerful PC to play the game on 
 the highest settings. The sound really adds to the experience of the game. The gunshot sounds are 
 authentic and the covenant weapons all have there own sound effects. Halos music is often outstanding, 
 the music usually bursts in at certain parts of the main game and makes the game more enjoyable. 
 If your looking for a great single player then your not going to get a anything amazing. If your 
 looking for a awesome multi-player game then get this. There is also a downloadable extra for Halo 
 called Halo Custom Edition. This lets the player do many new things which could not be done before 
 with the option to download Halo 2 maps for multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Ive started to play Halo only some weeks ago, because I had many games to play and short time. 
 Normally I dont like these Blockbusters titles, but Halo really change my view of FPS.
  The gameplay is exciting, and the enemies AI is one of the most accurate I ever seen. For example, 
 when you throw a grenade toward an enemy, he will actually jump aside, trying to avoid the explosion. 
 The enemies also hide behind trees, rocks or any present obstacle.
  The soundtrack is dense, following the action moments during the game. All the symphonics during 
 the missions sounds really great, and the sound effects are brilliant.
  With a well balanced gunnery system, its hard to get tired with the action. My choice, when it 
 was possible, was the shotgun, sppecialy against those flood enemies.
  Another great feeling is when you ride the vehicles, specially the Banshee flyer. Fantastic game!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  With so many FPS titles available for the PC, it isn't that hard to judge Halo and say that other 
 FPS for the PC are WAY better than this.... because its true. OK, so....... this game is a classic 
 for Xbox gamers, i wonder why?. Did the Xbox had any great FPS at the time? or maybe it was because 
 how fun the game is playing it on live! but enough talk about the console version (this is a review 
 for the PC version of course) As many people know, this game was intended to be only for PC's and 
 Macintosh, until Microsoft bought bungie and the rest is history (makes me wonder how the game 
 would have turned out if Microsoft didnt stick their greedy little hands on bungie hehe) . Basically 
 is the same game many people played on their Xbox, the only downside to the PC version would be 
 the poor performance you get when playing on higher resolutions and no Co- op mode. So the game 
 plays great on the Xbox but why doesent it play as good or better than the console version? i dont 
 think Gearbox software took more time to optimize the game or at least time to add the Co-op mode. 
 One would think that a 2GHz P4 with 512MB of DDR and a GF4 4200 would be capable of performing 
 at least on the same level as the Xbox version  but, it cannot. The game has been delayed so much 
 already for the PC, a few extra months to code in co-op and some performance enhancements. I could 
 spend the rest of the review dissecting Halos problems and shortcomings  because there are many 
  but I could spend just as much time focusing on what it does right.
  
  The story is pretty good, not the best compared to other gamess (you thought i was going to mention 
 Half Life didnt you?) but it gets interesting in the end. At first its the usuall aliens vs humans, 
 but the story has its twists.
  
  The action in Halo is intense, alot of fun gunning down a group of enemies. The action can get 
 hectic, and once you get a hold of your own 4 wheels like the warthog, or fly around on the Covenant's 
 hoverbike armed with twin plasma guns, and the Banshee is an assault aircraft that can devastate 
 ground forces. The arsenal of weapons available in Halo is also great, and are all well balanced 
 and uniquely suitable to certain situations ( all though yo ucan only carry 2 weapons at a time, 
 but its not bad since it makes you use more strategy ) . You can eve use the Covenant's weapons, 
 wich i dont prefer over the marines weaponry. You ge tthe usual: siper rifle, SMG, grenades, rocket 
 launcher, pistol etc. The game offers one of the best enemy AI, the Covenant forces really do a 
 great job trying to take the hero down, all though later in the game, the other alien force starts 
 to make the action feel boring since all they do is jump at you and it becomes repetitive.
  
  now the graphics..... Dated. Theres just no other word to explain Halos graphics. Considering 
 that other FPS on the PC look better. The most glaring issue is the size and quality of textures 
 and models. For all intents and purposes, Halo hardly looks better than the typical game that aimed 
 for a GeForce 2 baseline system. There are a few tacked-on effects like bump mapping, but in general 
 its difficult to get excited by the games texturing. Halo starts to impress more with its environments, 
 particularly outdoor settings. really demonstrate the immense beauty of the setting. Although its 
 easy to pick apart the individual pieces  blocky boulders, low-resolution textures, poor water 
 effects by todays standards (all though the models animations are well done) . The graphics engine 
 has been gone over by Gearbox to include some basic shader effects and higher resolutions, but 
 runs surprisingly slow. The front end GUI is also in need of an overhaul, as seeing gigantic text 
 and icons at 1024x768 or even higher resolutions on a 19 monitor is primitive, to say the least.
 
  
  The sound technology hasnt advanced all that much over the years and thus the games stellar effects 
 on the Xbox remain just as impressive now. The music is as moody and powerful as it ever was, while 
 combat effects have a crispness that is rarely heard even now, and the music score is outstanding. More 
 importantly than that, the abundant use of voices and voice effects is still above and beyond most 
 any other recent game has done. From the friendly, reassuring voice of Cortana, through the chatter 
 of marines, and the surprised yells of the Covenant , to the frustrated rage of elites.
  
  The singleplayer game is where the game shines, the best pure action on the PC since Half-Life, 
 and maybe ever. Never mind the repetitive sequences in some levels, theres just no other experience 
 like Halo when it comes to its single player. But i have to say that later on the game gets a bit 
 repetetive and dull. The controls are fit perfectly, mous and keyboard works like a charm and the 
 game also supports Gamepads.
  
  Multiplayer is alot of fun but there is no co-op. Gearbox may not have had the full two years to 
 put it in, but Microsoft and Bungie did. Its their fault that it didnt make it into the game 
 and quite frankly, its a huge mistake. The PC market is starving for any co-op experience, never 
 mind one as impressive as Halos. Multiplayer is basically nothing but a faithful translation of 
 Halos multiplayer, with a few new levels and two new weapons. The only thing that could piss you 
 off are the certain "jerks" who go for team kills, lets put it this way: Remove the sniper rifle, 
 add a simple voting interface to boot teamkillers and create a proper chat window.
  
  In conclusion, the game is worth it for its great single player, because MP isn't enough compared 
 to Counter Strike, Battlefield series and other great FPS available to the PC. This may be a classic 
 ( or so i like to say... overrated) on the Xbox ,but compared to other great FPS titles, it just 
 wont be the king of FPS on the PC.
  
  Graphics
  +The environment provided by the overall graphical experience and sound is extremely immersive.
 
  +/- The texturing is great, for a game released in the previous millennium. The models are blocky, 
 though have great animation.
  
  Sound: +Great sound effects and soundtrack, music is immersive.
  
  Game Play: + Long yet it 
 can get dull at moments, full of action, interesting without gimmicks  it just plain rocks.
  - No co-op
  
  Replay Value: + Enough action to bring you back for more, at least for the wide 
 open environments of the game, some levels in the game get boring (flood anyone?) +/- Fun Multiplayer, 
 exclusive maps and weapons, but needs a simple voting interface to boot teamkillers and create 
 a proper chat window. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drake733ca
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay first things first.
  We got exactly what Halo needed.
  I know I know I am writing a review for this game and its old and so on and there is Halo 2.
 
  But come on you know we are all still playing halo 1 on our pc's.
  You want to know why?
  Cause it is great.
  Its better than xbox as long as you keep your pc running in good shape.
 
  And You get to play online.
  And design maps.
  How can it get better than that?
  All it needed was a built in editor.
  And we would have been set.
  I love this game for the 
 sheer fact that Alot of us Halo gamers can only play halo gamers.
  I cant play games with people offline anymore because they get mad because I beat them and so on 
 but With the online function it is so much better.
  
  I say the graphics sure they arent perfect and halo on Xbox is a bit better,
  But they are still 
 good enough to play for like what 2 years or more...
  
  Sound. I found that Halo beat Halo 2 for sound.
  I love sitting there and blowing people away 
 with the old pistol.
  
  Gameplay...... All I have to say is its amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke6Lily
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm not usually into Sci-Fi type games, but rather FPS war games. I thought I would give it a try 
 and I have found it to be a lot of fun. It has a nice variety of options as far as driving, walking, 
 etc. It was a bit hard in the beginning to figure out which weapon to choose but that is easily 
 solved by reading the manual that comes with it. I'm not the best with that! I think I'll have 
 to move on and get Halo 2 since it's bound to be as good if not better than the original.
  I would highly recommend this game for all of the features of graphics, and value. The music does 
 sound a bit like a church, though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The Master Chief is finally going to appear on a PC game: Halo Combat Evolved. It's very similar 
 to the Xbox Version, but different, still. The game will introduce the main character, the Master 
 Chief, a super-enhanced soldier trained to eliminate any threats on his way. He's not any soldier, 
 he's got a super armor, known as Mjolnir Armor. It's the most advanced weapon in history, and he's 
 the only capable of using it. The armor as incredible capabilities, like having an AI aboard, helping 
 the Chief. Cortana is the AI, and main assisstan that helps the Master Chief when he's on a mission. 
 Speaking of missions, the levels in Halo are extremely big, and complex, and sometimes you might 
 get lost quiet easily. The thing that makes Halo such a great game, well besides its awesome story, 
 is that it makes First-Person Shooter a lot different. For example, in a cool FPS like Doom 3, 
 you get to carry all that many guns, and ammo, but there's simply no way that a single person could 
 carry that many guns. Because of that, in Halo you only get to carry two weapons, and only 8 grenades. 
 There are five human weapons-The Assault Rifle, The Shotgun, The Pistol, The Sniper Rifle, and 
 The Rocket Launcher. And one kind of human grenade-The Fragmentation (Frag) Grenade. The alien, 
 or rather the Covenant also have their weaponary. They have three weapons, and only one kind of 
 grenade-Plasma Pistol, Plasma Rifle, Needler, and Plasma Grenade You really have to put some thought 
 to which weapon you're going to take, and which you're going to left behind. You can carry four 
 Frag Grenades, and Four Plasma Grenades. Each weapon is quiet useful in many situations. Like the 
 Pistol, it's small and only has 12 rounds, but it also has a mini scoop that can kill an enemy 
 quiet easily. Don't judge each weapon by the way they look, you might end up being surprise what 
 these guns can do.
  
  The story of Halo is very easy to understand. It's the year 2552, and Humanity is now able to travel 
 through the Universe at the speed of light. They have colonized many planets, and planetoids. Everything 
 appear to be cool, until they lost contact with one of their colonies. It seams that they were 
 attacked by a superior race of aliens, later known as the Covenant. Whila all that was happening, 
 Humans were starting a new project: Spartan II. Spartants were super-soldiers capable of doing 
 anything, and everything. When the Covenant found the planet that was the headquaters of the Human 
 miliary, they destroy the planet, and everything in it. A ship escaped with the last Spartan, The 
 Master Chief. This ship, The Pillar of Autumm, stumbled upon a strange object. A ringed world, 
 Halo. They have to land there, or else they're doom. After they land, something weird happens, 
 apparently, the Covenant digged something hidden, and very bad. The flood, a parasitic life form 
 that will kill every single living organism in the Universe. Halo is an unormous cage that was 
 never meant to be open. Now all living things in the Universe will be destroy, unless someone does 
 something to stop it from happening, you. The Master Chief is the only one that can stop it, and 
 he will.
  
  All in all, the game is awesome, and is defenitely going to keep you playing for at least 10 hours 
 straight, like I did. Buy it, it's worth it, that much I can assure you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a very fun game worth playing. Like i said i don't think it defines the FPS genre. Very 
 great story that drags you in with Master Chief and all the other characters... For probably the 
 first 2 to 3 Hours not a DRYYY moment. But then something called the Flood comes in to play... 
 Then thats when i get very bored. You see it's not that the flood is not creative it's just to 
 me it took a big turn from what you were fighting before (the covenent sp) While Bungie and Microsoft 
 did a very good job on a game i just don't think that it's what everyone says it is... Brilliant... 
 I really enjoyed this game don't get me wrong... The weapons are fan foogootastic. The AI while 
 not the brightest around but still a great challenge in some parts. I do think it was a great move 
 for Microsoft to put Halo to the PC's to give everyone else a chance. I'm glad i got this game 
 but not for the single player... the multiplayer on the other hand was FANFOOGOOTASTIC!!!! I never 
 get sick of it. This game is great i deffinatley suggest buying this game if you dig on FPS games. 
 I just don't want anyone to set the bar to high for the single player. If you just buy this for 
 the single player you might not like it but hey you might like the flood... But if you like multiplayer 
 games you won't regret you buy. Now the sounds in this game are Phenominal! the guns sounds are 
 very well done! I do think they could have done just a tad bit better on the graphics considering 
 this is on the PC. Now like i said it just depends on why your buying this SP or MP? if your buying 
 this for SP just see if you can get this used 10 bucks or so... But for MP I would suggest going 
 out to Walmart (or anywhere else) right now and get home and install it and play MP through the 
 night
  In closing It's not that this is a bad game I just don't think it defines the FPS genre Half-Life 
 does instead. buy HL for SP instead... Thanks for reading everyone!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Robert
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  6 years ago when I first began to play PC games ,I heard of agme called Halo. I first saw cool Master 
 Chef, amaizing  then It became a game I was alway looking forwards. Finally 
 I played this game in these day.
  Firstly this is a FPS instead of the origanl third-person one, this game become easier to learn.
 
  As a flagship game of Xbox, this seems to be too short a little bit. Since I spent a week to finsh 
 Call of Duty and three week on FarCry. I only spent three days to finsh this game, totally about 
 15 hours including Game Over time. But this is truely the best FPS I even tried, since it isn't as 
 hard as FarCry and one can use the vehicels freely. Though by the end of this game the maps are 
 the same as the one in the begining, this game is worth playing times again.
  If you are an FPS fan, this game is the only game you must try if you can play a gme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  Being a PC gamer I had to wait two years for Halo after it was released for the X-Box initially.
 
  
  As Spartan 117, better known as Master-chief, you're sent out to explore a ring-shaped planet. 
 Assisted by Cortana, an artificial intelligence integrated in your MJOLNIR suit, you'll have to 
 find out why the Covenant activity is so high there and what their interest possibly can be.
  
  Though the game play is pretty linear you have the freedom to run or drive around to explore 
 the area and clear up some paths you'll be needing to go to after finishing certain tasks. Several 
 actions are scripted, so after hitting a button somewhere to open up a door and traveling to that 
 certain construct you've explored before, you'll find the immediate area not to be empty anymore, 
 but guarded by Grunts, Jackals, Elites or worse: Hunters.
  
  I've found the game somewhat repetitive when you're some levels up and get to clean out a construct 
 consisting of large hallways and big rooms after your first contact with the Flood. The hallways 
 and rooms just keep going on and the Flood keeps coming and coming at you draining your ammo. I 
 most certainly hope Bungie will take notice of that for Halo 2.
  
  The surroundings look wonderful, nicely detailed and good lightning effects. Also the effects of 
 the weapons look great. A surround sound set makes the game more intense, most certainly when you're 
 font of the multi-player. I myself am a solo FPS player, but I can imaging it could be the difference 
 between life or death.
  
  After finishing Halo, I bought and read these books:
  Halo: First Strike (How Masterchief was recruited)
  Halo: The Flood (The story of the first Halo 
 game)
  Halo: The Fall of Reach (The Covenant are looking for Earth)
  
  The good news for us PC gamers is that Halo 2 is coming, I've first found it a shame I couldn't 
 continue to follow Master-chief's adventures without having to buy an X-Box. Microsoft made a wise 
 decision to not let us down completely, bad thing is that we're probably gonna need Windows Vista 
 with DirectX-10 to play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipe_You_Out
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Halo was origanly an RTS and has gone through many stages to see what you see now did I like the 
 outcome?.... Yes althoh the gameplay does repeat itself it is still a fun experience on the PC 
 because you have online multiplayer Which gives it a lot more of a replay value. Another thing 
 that I liked about halo was the sound The title mucic and the in game mucic was always Great! it 
 made you feal like you were running into a battle while you were in a game and the VOs were great 
 as well. About the onl problem I had witht the graphics was because it looked a little flat to 
 me But other than that it was realy good looking. All in All Halo is a good game but seems a little 
 bit better on the PC so if you can run it Buy it for the PC
  
  Ill also list some pros and cons!
  
  Pros
  -online play
  -fun multiplayer
  -Great Mucic
 
  -Weapons thaat arent in the xbox version liek th flamethrower
  
  Cons
  -Seemed a little flat to me
  -Gets a little repetitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first installed this game on my PC, I was not sure what to expect. At the time this game 
 was huge talk. When I first began campaign, I saw what they meant, then I began to talk about this 
 game to.
  
  This game is really Combat Evolved! This First Person Shooter has you playing as the Master Chief. 
 The Master Chief has a power suit that gives him super human strength and stamina. Now you begin 
 off in space in a ship called the Autumn Pillar. From there you learn that your ship has been breeched 
 by foes that go by the "Covenant". You are sent along with marines to clear the ship out. This 
 time period allows you to get a handle on the game controls and features.
  
  As you progress through the game you will have the chance to use vehicles of human origin or of 
 alien. There is also a wide arsenal of weapons at your disposal too.
  
  The story line of the Campaign is great. The storyline is also divided into chapters which is great 
 for saving points and intermitent breaks in the action.
  
  The Multiplayer action is absolutely great. You get to challenge your friends or total strangers 
 in different game modes to reign supreme. Vehicles and the full arsenal are supported. The online 
 maps are great fun too. The maps offer different locations which in turn mean new tactics for team 
 play on each location.
  
  You will not be disappointed in this game. Totally worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Good Graphics physics and sound. Multiplayer is pretty fun sometimes. Enemy AI is good. 
 Vhehicallar parts are great.
  
  Lows: Latter half of the singleplayer is very annoying and repetitive. Multiplayer maps can be 
 too large. Controls for lsome vhehicals is odd. HUD is console geared.
  
  Now as you well know this is considered the best Xbox game out there, but two years later on a 
 PC it does not really show incredible excellence in any place other then sound and Graphics. The 
 single player puts you in control of a Cyborg called Master Chief (or just "Chief") . It starts 
 off in an UNSC (earth's space marines) mega ship that is under attack by Aliens called the covenant. 
 This first level is pretty much a tutorial but it is a very fun level, actually one of the better 
 ones, the CQC of the ship and some of Chief tricks, such as melee attacks and a quick grenade throw 
 thing make this a funner part. Chief however can only use two weapons at a time, wether pistol 
 and shotgun or sniper rifle and rocket launcher only two guns, this is a good thing, but in a hard 
 to describe way. You (surprise) escape the ship with its AI construct, Cortanna. She servers as 
 the voice in your head seen in to many video games. So you get off the ship and are on this space 
 station called "Halo". Now this level is about you trying to save the survivours of the ship. Here 
 you get introducted to the vhehicals. They are very fun to driver, due to the good physics but 
 unfortuneatally they cannot stear with the A and D keys, only the mouse. While ths is not a probelm 
 with the covenant ones (when you get to use them you will see why) but on the earth ones it is 
 a probelm. Though a minor problem on the jeep it is a huge problem for the tank because it means 
 you cannot look one way (and more importantly shoot) and drive another, so you cannot drive away 
 from an enemy and still attack him (you cannot revease either) . So the plot continues and you find 
 these aliens guys saying that Halo is a weapon that can destroy everything. So you head for the 
 control room and then Cortanna says she found out something big that will cause alot of **** to 
 go now. so you ship off and in the next level meet the gus who kept this game from getting a nine 
 on gameplay; the flood. The flood are this horde of creatures that turn thier prey into host zombies, 
 so they are head-crabs but not anywhere near as fun to fight. They turn the game completely around 
 for the worse, while the game is still pretty fun now it is also repetitive, unorigenal and annoying. 
 So the plot end with you killing Halo and a couple hints of Halo 2 are made and now you are done. 
 Okay multiplayer time!! the MP can be an excellent death Match experience or a borring walk around 
 oversized maps. Too many maps see to be geared toward 32 players but the limit on all maps is 16, 
 this takes alot of fun out of the Multiplay. But the good news is the maps that do not have the 
 vhehicals are perfectly sized to 8-16 players and offer alot of great times. So this game is either 
 an exellent one or a mediocre one.
  
  bottom Line: A good game but as some bad parts to it. No where near the revelution people say it 
 is but a good game nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th31337mc
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  I am big fan of the whole halo series so far.. but when i recently purchased the original halo 
 for pc, I was let down. This game was a high quality console game, but when this game was cloned 
 for pc, it seemed to lack that little extra zest that the game had on xbox. The price of the game 
 is fair, but i was expecting the same amount of entertainment that its twin dealt out by the handful. 
 Overall i would say that this game is great if you have never played halo on the xbox, but if you 
 have played its twin, you will be left with a tiny little whole in your gamers heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoes_fan88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Unique is really the only way to describe the gameplay in Halo. It certainly doesnt boast a 
 great amount of innovation in it, aside from the distinctive shielding system, but it does have 
 lots of cool stuff to keep you interested. Things such as air and ground vehicles, turrets and 
 grenade physics, although this sort of stuff didnt originate from Halo, it still does a good job 
 of adding to the feel of the game.
  With the weapons system in Halo, you are able to melee if you ever happen to run out of ammo and 
 u can only carry 2 weapons just to add a bit of realism, meaning you will find yourself switching 
 weapons a lot and sometimes even backtracking to get the gun you want.
  In the opening sequence of the game, the Pillar of Autumn looked very nicely detailed and the textures 
 admirable. Really the only problem I had in the cut scene was Keyes and some of the soldiers 
 animations, then again this is an Xbox launch title. When you land on Halo, the very first time 
 I saw the artificial planet from the edge of the cliff arc upwards into the sky all I could think 
 of was wow. Halo has some of the most beautiful environments in a video game that I have seen 
 in a while. The bump mapping looks pretty sweet along with other visual treatments, though its 
 usually only noticeable when you have your flashlight on.
  Its safe to say that the character and enemy models live up to the environments in detail, and 
 are varied enough throughout the game to stop them from being repetitive.
  If theres one thing good about the sound in Halo its the music. It ranges from the catchy main 
 theme track to the downright creepy Flood noise youd probably find in some zombie flicks. The 
 speech that you hear from the covenant during combat is well executed, and can be very unforgettable 
 and humorous. Gunshots and grenades setting off are aurally believable, and add to the sense that 
 you are in the game especially when you are fighting large groups of Covenant alongside your allies.
 
  There isnt much point doing story mode again unless you are trying to complete it on a more difficult 
 level, once you are tired of that theres always the multiplayer option if you have a decent net 
 speed. I wouldnt recommend this game for anyone who would play it just for the multiplayer, as 
 there are many other shooters around that are better designed for that area. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who wants a unique FPS with an epic storyline, or for something to simply kill 
 boredom.
  
  I give this game an 8.3/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrivateHudson
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  After becoming a hit on the Xbox, Halo finally went to the PC. The port of this game was alright 
 but I was kind of bored at times. Graphics don't look as great as the Xbox version and the frame-rate 
 is terrible in this port. The game still sounds great and the campaign still is fun to play especially 
 during the first two and last levels of the game. Even though the campaign is good the multi-player 
 is great as you are able to play against up to 15 others in all types of matches. Overall Halo 
 is an ok port but I wanted more fun from the campaign. This is definitely a must-buy for online 
 multi-player gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clouded_Death
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  It's a great game but just one thing annoys me,
  The fact that the 1st one was released for Xbox and Pc the 2nd one was released for the Xbox now 
 the final one is been released for the Xbox 360.
  
  Anyway the graphics are one of the best i've seen on a game up till now
  and the sound is perfect 
 plus some of the remarks the aliens and marines come out with are comical and give you abit of 
 a laugh.
  
  This is also a good game to play online even though hardly any1 does anymore and neither do I.
 
  
  So kudos to Bungie and good luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluedog007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- The campaign is really fun, lots of enemies to fight, and a pretty good replay value 
 with the different levels of difficulty. There are plenty of weapons to help you fight and the 
 action is very fast-paced so you're not sitting there shooting at the same enemy for 5 minutes. 
 But this doesn't mean you can just run through the game. If you want to beat the game on the hard 
 or legendary difficulties, you'll have to plan you attacks and use a little bit of strategy. The 
 storyline is good too, it wasn't just slapped together like so many other game's stories are today. 
 But what is REALLY fun is the multiplayer. Like I said before, the action in this game is fast-paced, 
 and with up to 16 players in a server, you'll fight some really sweet battles. The map selection 
 is excellent too, there's everything from a small industrial-like room to a huge island with team 
 bases on opposite ends. 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are up to par with today's games, they arn't excellent, but with gameplay 
 so good who needs high-end graphics?
  
  Sound- The sound effects are all standard, you'll get the sounds from guns, vehicles, enemies. 
 The music is fine, although you only get music in the main menu. 
  
  This game is definately a must-have, and for prices as low as $10 (from what I've heard) it's worth 
 more than it's price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resistance_8
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Why is it that i can have fun with this game on the Xbox, but if i play it on the PC it is just 
 a disappointment. Don't get me wrong, it's okay, but today there are better shooters for the PC 
 out there. 
  
  The story is really interesting, one of the games better points. Not so much how it tells it, but 
 the story itself is great. 
  
  Graphics: Really good transition to the PC. Great graphics, for their time anyway.
  
  Sound: 
 Weapons sound really weak most of the time. Grunts are still annoying. : ) Everything else is good.
 
  
  Value: If you enjoy the multiplayer (Which I am sorry to say I do not) it adds to the game's life. 
 Different difficulties also prolong this game's life.
  Although, this game isn't amazing in terms of actual length.
  
  Gameplay: *Sigh* I don't know 
 why shooting stuff in this game seems so much better on the Xbox. I don't know if it is because 
 the weapons seem so boring, or if its the atrocious and repetitive level design, the almost non-existent 
 enemy variety, or the seemingly pointless missions that ruin it for me. I just didn't like this 
 game. It wasn't fun, which is a big problem. It came off as boring. Also, I don't enjoy the multiplayer 
 as many do. (I guess I'm more of a counter strike guy.) So this game didn't hold anything for me. 
 
  
  Tilt: I tried to like this game, I really did. After awhile, it gets really old and I lost all 
 intrest and I can't play it anymore. Is it just me?
  
  Final Word: Others seem to enjoy this more than me, so you can't go wrong with trying it out. Both 
 singleplayer and multiplayer are loved by many. Besides it's really hard to go wrong for $20. In 
 my opinion the good still outweighs the bad. If you enjoyed it on the Xbox, interested in the multiplayer, 
 or want a good singleplayer FPS, this game is for you. (but not for me.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klobot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Halo was one of the first "great" fp shooters out there. And the PC version fills out all the few 
 missing things from the original.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Singleplayer: The singleplayer of Halo is no worse from the multiplayer aspect. The storyline is 
 very compelling. You'll actually feel sorrow for the dead marines at the end, you'll enjoy the 
 small quirks that the Sergeant throws at you, and you're heartbeats per second will multiply after 
 you see Private Jenkin's recording tape. The atmosphere in Halo is perfect for the Sci-fi genre. 
 It's not completely unrealistic like Unreal Tournament (hence the title) , and it's not a repetative 
 'shadow' game. It's a quick realistic game, that adds in aliens for the thrill. You're on a large, 
 but out-of-date space cruiser called The Pillar of Autumn. It has just came out of slipspace (lightspeed) 
 after barely escaping the lost battle on the military planet of Reach. Since time was a factor, 
 you made a blind jump with random coordinates. Even so, the covenant (a group of several different 
 races of aliens joined together so vow to destroy the human race) seems to be right on your tail 
 as soon as you stop. They seem to be guarding an artificial ringworld known to them as "Halo". 
 Since victory on the cruiser is not an option, Captain Keyes decides to try and land the ship on 
 to the ring, find out what it is, and get back to Earth in one peace. That's where you come in. 
 You, the last remaining Spartan Supersoldier, known only as Masterchief, must take the Ship's AI 
 (artificial intelligence) Cortana and protect her at all costs. If the covenant find her, they'll 
 learn all about Human history, and worst of all, Earth. You'll down to Halo and fight your way 
 through the many Covenant ranks; the tiny, yelling, almost harmless grunt warriors, the mysterious 
 stable jackal soldier, the tank-like hunters, an the quick, strong, and intelligent elites. While 
 on Halo, you learn its darkest secret, and are forced to fight yet a new enemy, this one even stronger 
 than the covenant. Then eventually, you'll have to destroy Halo, and get off of it in time.
  
  Multiplayer: Although not exactly as thrilling as Halo's singleplayer, Halo's multiplayer is 
 still very fun in its own way. On public servers, however, don't expect to have such a great time. 
 You'll find many people who kill their teammates just for the fun of it, you'll hardly ever have 
 any type of teamwork whatsoever, and anyone who manages to find that one scorpion of banshee, will 
 dominate all the others. The weapons are all interesting, and it's very fun to find better ones 
 throughout the story, but in multiplayer they can get very uneven. The pistol at medium range can 
 kill anyone very quickly. The sniper rifle in skilled hands can dominate at far range, and at close 
 range, the flamethrower will hardly give you a second to realize what's going on. But on clan server 
 or private servers with your friends, it'll be the best LAN party you've ever had. It's always 
 fun to hop in to a warthog with 3 friends, one flipping across the hills, and running over everyone, 
 another riding shotgun... with a shotgun. And the gunner who'll try desperately to get that dang 
 banshee off of your tail. That'll be a great party anyone will enjoy.
  
  Graphics: Not exactly what expected. Yes, Gearbox didn't exactly do such a great job porting Halo 
 to the PC. The Xbox graphics are smoother, have more detail, and greater lighting effects. However 
 at full detail it won't really matter to you. There's another bright side to the graphics being 
 lower, more people can play it. The graphic are Halo's weakest feature, but they're good enough 
 that you won't really notice while you're stuck in the gameplay.
  
  Sound: Halo's sound quality itself is very clear, even if you're in the middle of several frag 
 grenades you'll understand Cortana's advice over your speaker. The guns and explosions are what 
 you would expect, not too loud, but loud enough that you can realise how much power it has stocked 
 inside. The voice acting is the best I've seen in a long time. You can hear the disparity in Cortana's 
 voice, or the hope and the dread in the Marines' voices, and even better; the harsh yet cheerful 
 tone in Sergeant Johnson's voice. There is no flaw in Halo's sound.
  
  Tint: This game should appeal to anyone who likes any type of game. Before Halo I hated fps's. 
 I found them too hard of linear. But Halo is just right, and is anything but linear. You're either 
 in a maze of small dark corridors, aboard the bright, purple covenant cruiser, in the creepy darkness 
 of one of the underground forerunner structures, sloshing through the snow around the control room, 
 or out in the HUGE open fields and canyons of Halo's outside. You'll often get lost, and have to 
 follow clues of the dead covenant corpses you left behind to get to your goal. I'd recommend people 
 who like any type of fps, including Doom, Half-life, Quake, and even Metroid Prime, to buy this 
 game, and even if you don't like first-person shooters, at least try out this game.
  
  Overall: One of the greatest Sci-fi genre fps's out there, even still. If you want a bigger multiplayer 
 community, then yeah buy Halo 2, but if you're interested in the Story at all, try out the first 
 Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runeskaper
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  okay here it goes, halo for PC has a great story with about 20 hours gameplay on normal difficulty. 
 this game has the best online play of any game i have played ever (the main reason i bought the 
 game) and best of all it's FREE yea i said it FREE thanks to gamespy. multiplayer modes do have 
 some faults like lag, camping, autoaim bots (cheaters download them and they aim for a players 
 head automaticly, sometimes you can't find a good game to play because sometimes everytime you pick 
 a game to join it's like all rockets or snipers (i like playing with map default weapons) but some 
 people dont and i respect that, and lastly there is a program that you can dowload where you can 
 modify games ( like giving the blue team rockets and snipers and giving red plasma pistols, this 
 is a very rare situation and it doesn't happen very often. i know what your thinking because i 
 told you a lot of bad things but actually they dont accure that often or they arent very severe. 
 bottom line great multiplayer, great story, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Halo for the PC can use a little more maintence to the game, in order for it to be as good as the 
 Xbox version. Yep! I remember playing this game the first time on the Xbox. I was playing it on 
 co-op mode with my friend. And let me tell ya, I was one of the millions of people in the world 
 that got hooked onto it immediately! And when it was released for the Xbox, I did not own that 
 console. But luckily, 2 years later they came out with it for the PC. And this is what I thought 
 to myself, "I am glad that they released it for the PC!" After playing a demo for it, I knew I 
 wanted that game badly! But then a few months later I had finally gotten it for the PC! When I 
 first started playing it on the PC I had noticed some negatives about it! First thing I noticed 
 that the graphics in this version is not as good as it is on the Xbox version. The second thing 
 is that the controls are not as great as the Xbox version also! But the good thing about this version 
 is that it has online play, which does make you want to come back for some more gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titoserbianhero
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Well here it is, my review for the PC version of the greatest game of all-time Halo. The game that 
 single-handedly destroyed the PS2 and brought the X-Box to the top of the console dog pile. This 
 game is years ahead of its time and the graphics are stunning even today 5 years after its release. 
 The gameplay and the graphics are stunning as well the sound effects. The story is amazing and 
 quite compelling as well as some interesting plot twists. The game is boring if you think you can 
 just play the campaign over and over agian on easy. This game is all about beating it on Legendary 
 no easy feat. And when you are done with that your ready for Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Halo was my first fps on my PC and I haven't hated a single moment of it till date. This is probably 
 the most unique game I have ever come across. All in all whatever you encounter in the game is 
 mostly uncliched. This is probably the best that PC gaming has to offer. This should definitely 
 be a choice for any hardcore gamer. Another fact I love about this game is the graphics. First of 
 all the graphics are totally new and the dynamic lighting is beautifully presented which doesn't 
 bear any resemblance to anything as such. The gameplay is by far the most dominant feature of this 
 game which I think has yet to be outclassed .From the beginning to the end Halo: Combat Evolved 
 delivers thrilling, exciting, fun, jaw dropping, palpitating moments which make it the one of the 
 best in this next-gen genre. But, unfortunately a but, Halo is not PC friendly
  ,meaning to say that it is a huge hardware dependant game, you'll need a beast machine (high end 
 PC) to run it in all of it's graphical glory. By far THE BEST FPS TILL DATE. Believe it!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  solid fps shooter. It has a pretty cool story line with an awesome multiplayer, that alike golden 
 eye for the n64 made this one such a classic.
  
  There is a real cult type following of this game series, they even have halo literature none of 
 which I have read. Personally I liked this one, didn't love it but I had a good time playing through 
 it in between class. 
  
  Personally I'm not the hugest fan of shooter games, unless I'm killing my buddies. So to attest 
 further the main feature of this game is the multiplayer. You can play multiplayer for hours and 
 hours and it's great, and at the same time profound how adept you become at killing. 
  
  If you havent played halo then you should I guess, I'm not a dictator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzms
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  At first I was not a fan of the Halo series when it was on the Xbox but now that I have played 
 the PC version of it I can tell just how good it really is. So first off this is a big advancement 
 on a game that was on Xbox for 2 years, before hitting the PC, and since its on PC I really like 
 what they have done to it. They've upgraded textures, added new weapons and vehicles to the game, 
 and I would guess the most important thing that was added to this game was the online play. 
  
  The story for Halo is really long and doesn't take long to get into, the graphics are really 
 well done some of the best I've seen. The A. I. is one of the things I admire about this game, you 
 toss a grenade in the direction of some enemies they run, you kill the little ones and they start 
 running (reminds you of the Fallen in the Diablo series doesn't it?) . The one thing that took a 
 little time to get the hang of was using the mouse to steer the vehicle that you were driving, 
 after a while it becomes second nature. Overall this game was good and it needs to find its way 
 into all FPS fan's collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiefay
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  amazing game! i meen no one can beat it ? but the xbox version is alot better but for pc it rocks! 
 the halo 1 for pc or xbox... there are things better for halo 2 but all out for pc HALO 1 IS ON 
 THE WAY!
  
  but i cant wait till halo 2 comes out for pc and halo 3 for XBOX 
 
  
  if your good at halo you know what i am saying if you play halo every day then your a halo rock 
 fan just like me...............
  
  i dont care what ppl think about halo all i care bout is how good i am at halo 1 .... halo 2..... and 
 then i will be good at halo 3!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidus_reeves
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  Okay you've played games, you've played PC games, you've played Shoot 'em up games. BUT HALO FINISHES 
 'EM ALL. Halo has got to be The start of one of the BEST shoot 'em games. It lives to tell a great 
 story. Great combat. Great characters. Great Guns. Great ALIENS. You couldn't ask for more. AND 
 ON TOP OF AN UNBELIEVABLE CAMPAIGN. THERES OUTSTANDING MULTIPLAYER. Added on to the wonderful Xbox 
 Live And/Or the XBConnect service and also the system link power you can play wonderful Multiplayer 
 for up to 16 people playing at once or more makes the Halo Experience better with free multiplayer 
 playing on the Gamespy Arcade, also the amazing PC available only maps!. All this is bundled in. 
 Just think of playing with an amazing character. With amazing Vehicles and Amazing Weapons. Think 
 oaf playing as the most destructive force on earth with a Weapon of Human technology or an Alien 
 weapon of Plasma and pure energy.
  
  And now the unnoficial Halo Custom Edition which is available: this allows you to put Custom content 
 on. How cool is that, think about going around the suburbs armed with a heavy machine gun and an 
 energy sword. Or think about driving the Pelican or the Covenant drop ship (which is possible!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategyking92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This is 2 games, the single player (what was on the xbox version) and the multiplayer part.
  After you defeat the covenant and the flood as mastercheif in the long and story rich version of 
 halo's single player, you can go ahead with the multiplayer. the multiplayer mode is where the meat 
 lies within the game though, with a 16 player limit and over 5 modes thisll keep you busy (theres 
 a large community still!) . The graphics are still sharp also (!)
  This is also a bargain game (20$ at wally mart)
  You have no excuses to not pick it up, so go 
 now the earth needs YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blademaster237
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game changes the way we look at a first-person shooter. Whenever I start playing I refuse 
 to stop. The graphics are awesome, gameplay rocks, the voice talent and music are phenomonal, and 
 I never get bored from playing. This game also has a incredible storyline and plot. The multiplayer 
 is also very good. It's just endless fun blowing the living heck out of your opponents. I made 
 my point, this game is the best game I have ever played.
  Microsoft and Bungie, well done. You have created a revolutionary game. One more thing, if you 
 don't have this game buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  I could not believe my eyes when I saw how much better the graphics were over the Xbox version. 
 Man Halo PC looks better than Halo 2 does.
  Way better in fact. It is so nice to be able to crank up the resolution on a game like Halo. I 
 think the bad reviews are just from Xbox fan boys.
  They probably don't even have the PC version.
  If you are considering buying Halo PC do not listen 
 to the stupid reviews.
  This is one hell of a great game.
  I would reccomend it to anyone unless you have a totally crappy computer of course. No one can 
 be blamed for that but you.
  I am so sick of people giving a NEW GAME bad reviews because it requires a big cpu and video card. 
 Keep up or go play your stupid consoles.
  Just my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstareo1
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Halo isn't really all that great of a game. You spend 89% of your time shooting aliens while walking 
 somewhere, 10% of your time getting bored on the level where you follow the monitor to the index, 
 and 1% of your time wondering just how this game got such great reviews when it doesn't stand out 
 from the rest of the FPS crowd. Halo was the first game I bought for my PC, back when I was obsessed 
 with Halo without actually playing it becasue it looked cool and was really the first FPS I had 
 ever played. It's great fun blowing the **** out of grunts for awhile, but really mastercheif every 
 single alien in the game, so it's no challenge since you can pwn everyone. And how many grunts 
 can you pwn before it becomes tedious? about half the game, really, then it becomes "shoot any 
 aleins on your way, get to your objective, press E, watch a cutscene describing waht is happening 
 in the story, the immediatly jump to your next objective."
  I've come to expect more from the FPS genre, with amazing games like Half-Life 2, or even Half-Life, 
 a game from 8 years ago the still knocks the socks off of Halo. Your enimies are anything but smart, 
 and your allies are even worse. If we left the fate of mankind to the infantry of Halo, we would 
 all be very dead, very fast. There are no gameplay puzzles in Halo, nothing the ever makes you 
 use your brain instead of your index finger, just run around and shoot whatever isn't human. It 
 has a compelling, interesting story that made me buy the 3 Halo books (The Fall of Reach, The Flood 
 and the First Strike) , but the unispired gameplay almost squashes that.
  The multiplay is really fun though, although it has no VOIP features, something that it needs desperatly. 
 And, of couse, the Oddball, CTF Last Man Standing and every other gameplay mode in it has already 
 been used. So that's pretty much it.
  Gameplay that doesn't offer anything new, or interesting, or even challenging on its hardest mode, 
 stupid AI, "Been there, done that" multiplay but an interseting story pretty much describes Halo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_complete
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 8, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Now, I will not rate this based on the previous halo on the xbox platform, unlike many others. 
 Instead, I will on an independant PC basis, because many who have an xbox have no reason to purchase 
 the game for PC other than the online play. I open the box, and start reading the manual.... hmmm. 
 Fairly interesting story, it's the year 2552 (Pretty far in the future by most peoples standards) . 
 First alien encounter, blah blah blah we're getting our asses kicked, etc. Slightly cliched, but 
 straightforward, and in the end, it does the job. Then an interesting note about a 'cyborg supersoldier' 
 piques my interest. I think to myself Wouldn't they have thought of this 300 years ago? , but ignore 
 the thought. I'm anticipating some cool, original and futuristic weapons though.
  
  I turn to the next page, and our character looks pretty cool. His armor and the technology behind 
 his interfaces are the pinnacles of hundreds of years of technology. Wow, awesome. I skip to page 
 eleven, and see the section labeled 'human weapons'. 'You're probably already familiar with them', 
 it says. I assume this is because most people have already played it on xbox. But alas, it is because 
 they are the same exact weapons we use today. Pistol, grenades, machine guns, shotgun, sniper rifle, 
 rocket launder... blah blah blah. Boring. I try to ignore this for now, and start playing the game. 
 Fun, at first, but a little slow to start. Some guy leads me to a door, and surprise! it blows 
 up right near me. I finally get to the chief, and he sends me to the lifepods, and gives me a pistol. 
 But the guy doesn't keep it loaded? Ahhh. So then I finally pick up some ammo, and shoot some aliens. 
 Wait, what? Aliens? These things look like goblins, and they speak english in a high pitched voice. 
 Is this cartoon network? Blah, so trying to ignore this, I find an assault rifle. I try it out 
 on a cooler alien, and find that an M16 would probably do the job better, because this thing fires 
 much more slowly.
  
  Whatever.
  
  Finally I get to the lifepod. Then we crash, and I survive while standing up as everyone strapped 
 in dies. Of course, we had no landing system or anything. But it's okay, i get to pick up some 
 goodies. Blah blah blah.... I finally get to the point where I have to rescue some guys from the 
 Covenant (aliens) , and then I get a warthog. Wait, what? What year is this? Our little assult vehicle 
 is pretty much the same as a 2006-era Assault Jeep, with a few modifications. Whatever, it's fun 
 to drive, but it's pretty slow. I get through a lot of the game this way, and finally I come to 
 the little cutscene, where the flood stars. They begin to tear through my shields and armor, if 
 I don't blast them to pieces. Oh wait, this is supposedly the pinnacle of modern technology 550 
 years in the future, and some bugs can tear up my sheilds and heavy armor easily? Organic creatures 
 really do not belong in futuristic shooters. How lame. Finally, I complete the game, and we blow 
 up the planet with our fusion reactor. Yay!
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  
  Uninspired, limited weaponry. We have developed faster than light travel, advanced spacecraft, 
 and superpowered computer, yet our armarments are virtually identical to c. 2006. Saving Earth 
 in the 26th century, 21th century style! Funny, I thought governments usually shove money into 
 research before space stuff.... Also, we've got lame aliens, who fire whimsical weapons that are 
 a pain to use sometimes. The flood definately ruin the end, as well. The exception to this is the 
 hunters, and the elites aren't that bad. The grunts are very annoying, and the jackals.... errr.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10. Explosions are decent, grunt and flood sounds really annoy me, but besides that it's 
 pretty good.
  
  Graphics: 9/10. Good graphics, even by PC standards. You probably should have a decent graphics 
 card to run this on high settings though, or the graphics will not be so great.
  
  Value: 8/10. Fun to play, kept me busy for awhile, and overall enjoyable combat, while pretty simple. 
 It still was fun though, in the end.
  
  Tilt: 8/10. Had me addicted for some time, despite the uninspired and scarce weaponry, annoying 
 covenant, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emh4652
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved was the reason to buy an Xbox when it came out, and really always will be, 
 perhaps with the exception of its sequel. One reason Halo 2 sells so well is that it supports online 
 play, something that Halo 1 did not. But then Halo was released on the PC, bringing (nearly) all 
 of the features that everybody loved from the Xbox version and adding a bunch of stuff. The only 
 problem is certain things in the added bunch of stuff category make the game worse, but retained 
 a lot of the good aspects from the Xbox.
  
  In General  8/10
  
  The default control scheme for Halo had a few things that I would have changed about it, so I did. 
 The controls are extremely customizable. If you want to change crouching to a key that isnt Left 
 Control, you can, and the menus make it easy. The only disadvantage for control schemes is the 
 support for gamepads; on the Xbox version, there is autoaim so you can shoot your opponents better, 
 but Halo PC lacks that. Either way, I prefer the mouse and keyboard to a gamepad any day, no matter 
 how much autoaim.
  
  Halo for the Xbox had weapons that were all pretty much equal, and were all pretty enjoyable weapons. 
 In Campaign, no weapons were changed from the Xbox version and I have no complaints. In Multiplayer, 
 where most of the changes happened, there are a few problems. The Fuel Rod Gun, a new addition, 
 allows people to launch explosives in fast succession and requires very little skill to use, as 
 does the Banshee, the flying/killing machine. The Pistol requires skill, but is still overpowered 
 and someone who is good with it dominates the game. Otherwise, the weapons are well-made.
  
  Halos engine is made well if youre just playing the game. It isnt glitchy (more on that 
 in the next paragraph) ; you can play the game without getting stuck in the ground, and it is also 
 extremely smooth and natural. Walking isnt robotic, looking is fine, the animations when throwing 
 grenades and reloading are pleasing. Though when driving a car in real life, you cannot see everything 
 around your car, in Halo, you can, as the game switches to third-person, which is extremely nice 
 and allows you to look at your character a little bit (before you get killed) .
  
  One thing that becomes fun after you beat the Single Player game and play some of the Multiplayer 
 is to screw with the engine. There are an almost innumerable number of glitches found on various 
 Halo websites that are fun to perform; to see if you can launch a car to the other side of the 
 level, to try to fall through a wall, to try to get a tank where it isnt supposed to go. These 
 are all entertaining to try, and, surprisingly, adds a huge amount of replay value to the game.
 
  
  Single Player  10/10
  
  Retaining its near-perfection from the Xbox version is Campaign, now known as Single Player. Nothing 
 was drastically changed about it from the Xbox version with the exception of two-player Campaign. 
 The game starts a bit slowly, but once you start playing through it, even just for the storyline, 
 its great. It features a rather straightforward sci-fi story until a gripping plot twist which 
 kept me up another two hours past when I intended to go to bed, just so I could beat it. 
  
  Here is the basic story, without giving away the thing that will keep you up for two hours 
 past when you intend to go to bed. The humans have been losing a war against a hostile (but colorful) 
 alien race known as the Covenant in the year 2552, a time far in the future for those of you without 
 knowledge of what year it is. The humans have machine guns, the Covenant have giant exploding laser 
 beams that can destroy a planet, which has already happened to a planet of the humans, called Reach.
 
  
  But the humans have something up their sleeves. Theyve got this genetically modified supersoldier 
 known as Master Chief, who you play through the game. Hes got this energy-powered bullet proof 
 armor that makes him much more powerful, and hes been trained to be a wonderful military combatant. 
 The Master Chief sits in a cryogenic tube inside a human spaceship, called The Pillar of Autumn.
 
  
  The Pillar of Autumn, while escaping from a Covenant ship, stumbled upon a strange world, not a 
 planet, but a ring world. This ring world, called Halo (hence the games creative title) , is like 
 a ring, but on the inside is terrain, filled with tall mountains, wide plains, deserts, oceans, 
 and anything youd find on Earth before the human race turned it into one giant casino. The Pillar 
 of Autumn decides to land there after the Covenant spot them, and thats where your game starts.
 
  
  Multiplayer  8/10
  
  Multiplayer is fun to play because you can kill people you do or do not know. The major disadvantage 
 is that there is a terrible netcode (see Performance section) . This means that you cant hit your 
 enemies by pointing the gun at them and shooting, no matter how accurate the gun is. You have to 
 aim in front of them, because the programming was done so badly. A good (and more fun) remedy of 
 this is to bring all your friends over and have a LAN party where you hook up a number of computers. 
 There are no online latency problems there and its just more fun anyway.
  
  Though Campaign had no major changes from the Xbox version, Halo PC has a number of new additions, 
 some of which are good and some of which I could easily live without. Halo PCs multiplayer features 
 two new weapons, three new vehicles (two of which were always in Campaign) and six new maps. I 
 will discuss these additions and how fun they are later.
  
  The addition of online to Halo was useful, even if they didnt add anything to the weapons or levels. 
 All of the old weapons are still fun to use, and you can only have two. My favorite combinations 
 are the Pistol + Shotgun and Pistol + Sniper Rifle, but other people have different preferences, 
 and its fun to pick them. The only disadvantage here is, the Pistol is easily the best weapon 
 in the hands of a master; someone whos good with just a Pistol against three people who are good 
 with all of the other weapons will probably be beaten by the wielder of the Pistol. Still, it doesnt 
 take much away from the gameplay.
  
  The additions of the new weapons, vehicles, and maps are a mix of good and I want to kill this. 
 One of the new weapons, the Flamethrower, is useless in any level that is popular and extremely 
 cheap in any where it is useful. The other new weapon, the Fuel Rod Gun, is the cheapest weapon 
 you can use in the whole game. So both of the new weapons are flops.
  
  The new vehicles include a new version of the car, a plane, and a turret. Only the first one is 
 new to the game entirely; those familiar with Campaign will recognize the other two. The new car 
 is fine; its extremely powerful but has enough weaknesses. The turret is, more or less, something 
 you can use to hide behind. It isnt useful for anything but that. The plane, called the Banshee, 
 is probably the most annoying thing in the whole game and allows people with no skill to win. I 
 dont know if there are better words to describe it, quite honestly.
  
  The six new maps are the only things that arent annoying and really cant be. Some of them are 
 more fun to play than others, but some are not. My personal favorites of the additions are Ice 
 Fields and Gephyrophobia, though the latter has the hardest name to spell of any video game level 
 Ive ever seen. The other four are fine, not wonderful but not awful either.
  
  All in all, I couldve done without all of the additions they made to multiplayer, but its worth 
 it if I can play online.
  
  Performance  2/10
  
  Because this is a PC game, it needs to run on a variety of different computers with varying graphics 
 cards. Other popular and more graphically demanding PC games, such as Battlefield or Half-Life 
 2, run better on my computers bad graphics card than Halo does, probably because the graphics 
 are coded for the Xbox and are not optimized for graphics cards that are any different. This is 
 still a problem and leaves many people looking at Master Chiefs that only come in one color, have 
 no visors, and everything looks like it was alive but has been dead for at least a decade.
  
  Most people who prefer Halo PC over Halo Xbox like it for its online support, but not many 
 people like its online support. One can get used to aiming leagues in front of other people when 
 you need to hit them, but it becomes frustratingly difficult when using precision weapons such 
 as the Sniper Rifle, because you have to shoot at least twice before you can hit somebody unless 
 youve practiced using it with online latency for hours on end.
  
  Overall  8/10
  
  Overall, Id say this game is one you should buy if you have a good enough internet connection 
 to play online. Even if you dont, the single-player Campaign is fun enough for the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I am reviewing this game by the standards of the time it came out, because by today's standards, 
 all aspects of this game are way sub-par. 
  
  If I rated Halo for xbox, I would rate it a 9, because thats what it deserves in every category 
 for the platform and time ti came out. 
  
  But this is the PC, where there are alot of games much Older than Halo that kick its ass TODAY.
 
  
  Even At the time Halo was ported to the PC, it waws graphically inferior to most games out there. 
 The lighting technology was minimal, and so was the tecture quality. The port took no advantage 
 of the PC's superior hardware, no advantage of the technology advancements since the time it came 
 out, and Took no advantage of the AI upgrades since the time it first came out. 
  
  Gameplay wise, Halo was about as simplistic as Doom 3 was, which is pretty simple. Run and gun 
 was great on Xbox in 2001, but not today. 
  
  The sound was decent, but nothing special, with a few good tracks. 
  
  The value was still 
 good, you got what you paid for. Robust single and multiplayer modes. 
  
  My tilt of 8 is out of simple nostalgia. Halo was great on the xbox, no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombryaTheDark
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is a MASTERPIECE it is so much fun, but people mostly play it for multiplayer I dont 
 blame them. Its very easy to understand you will have so much fun playing multiplayer meeting people 
 of all other skills some amazing and some noobs along the way its is quite an adventure. Campaign 
 mode is also quite fun but nothing beats the multiplayer. For some reason in my PC Master Chief 
 is white and not green and in multiplayer everyone is also white. Colors aside this game is phenomenal 
 and so much fun Get this game you dont know what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chubbydwk
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  The graphic of Halo is great...
  I had this game for a while like 2 or 3 year so but oh well i was being lazy... I gave 10 for the 
 gameplay because it is the best.. Graphic is good everything is good for this game. I hope Bungies 
 makes different kind of categories of game though... Great Game.... When I first got the game, 
 it was amazing. The game is not scary as it sound and look that's not the point but it was good 
 experiment to play this kind of games (I usually play Sports game or like Shooting game but not 
 in 1person shooting) This is must have game for the xbox gamers.... Get Halo 2 to learn more about 
 Halo and Bungie company itself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katanas
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Halo PC has a lot to offer that the Xbox version doesn't have.
  The Campaign is the same but all the changes are in multiplayer. In multiplayer you have "9" new 
 maps to play on, which makes the total around 19 maps or so. That still isn't enough for you, you 
 wanna know how good the Gameplay is?? Well the gameplay is just plain incredible. If you haven't 
 played the Xbox version and were waiting for the PC version let me fill you in on the story. You 
 are the last of your kind, a Spartan (i won't go into detail about what a spartan is) , and you 
 have to stop the Covenant from activating Halo. I would go farther in depth but then there would 
 be quite a few spoilers. Ok i'm just gonna talk about the graphics real quick now, if you've seen 
 the Xbox version of Halo you'll notice a difference in graphics with a high end graphics card Things 
 do look better. Ok now onto multiplayer. Multiplayer has 3 new features!!!! that's right "3" that 
 aren't in the xbox version. First there is the addition of the Fuel Rod Gun/Cannon which hunters 
 have, and Black armored grunts have in the last level of Halo called The Maw. It can be a very 
 powerful weapon when used right. The next addition is the Flame Thrower. The Flame Thrower isn't 
 really an ideal weapon for most maps but when you get in close quarters combat (you have to be 
 fairly close) this weapon can be very useful, but be careful get to close to the fire and you get 
 burned too (you just lose some of your shield) . And the 3rd additon was a pilotable banshee in 
 multiplayer. However ppl who use banshees in multiplayer are often reffered to as noobs.
  I won't go into much detail about what to look out for cause there are a lot of well just think 
 up a couple of sware words and there you go that what a lot of people are like on Halo PC.
  Oh and the game even offers LAN and Online multiplayer but no co-op.
  This game is a must buy 
 for even the owner of the Xbox verson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenwidow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Call me a loyalist... call me crazy... call me what you will, but the first time I was able to 
 aim in halo using my trackball was the greatest gaming moment of my life. I'm not here to bash 
 on the X-box version... quite the opposite, it is still one of the most played games in my collection, 
 but I have always wondered what might have happened if this series was made for the PC rather then 
 ported to it... There is no argument that PCs have the higher potential for sheer hardware performance, 
 but when taking into consideration the fact that PCs are harder to use, more expensive, and not 
 everyone has a Kensington Expert trackball... it makes perfect economical sense that the game would 
 be created for X-box.
  
  It saddens me that due strictly to economic factors this series may never see the glory that it 
 may have obtained... imagine the near photo realistic quality of Doom 3, except within the Halo 
 environment, imagine the noises, the shadows, the fear that could have been provoked... I see a 
 massive amount of potential in this series, don't get me wrong, I love them just the way they are, 
 but I often wish that games could be driven by the desire to create an experience, rather then 
 money. If they were, Halo, however hard it may be to believe... may have been even bigger then 
 it was... 
  
  Technological, and philosophical issues aside the story is great, the voice acting superb, graphics 
 are great despite looking a bit cartoony when compared to the current crop of games... Control 
 is the primary factor in the PC version, whatever your aiming preference, standard or trackball, 
 accuracy is increased and you need to rely less on aiming assistance... taking this game from a 
 top notch action FPS, to a upper echelon, skill based, shooter.
  
  Overall this game dosn't max out my score because of the limitations imposed on a port, but never 
 the less the game is polished, well ported, and well worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingod2272
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Probably one of the best games you can play online. Since I don't have XBOX live I had to wait 
 to play online. PERFECT!!
  
  With a great story and probably one of the best controls on any system/PC this game ranks as one 
 of my favorites. What can I say I've spent many hours online although sometimes lag can be frustrating 
 this game is brilliant. Even with the share of glitches I love this game. The most fun thing are 
 the guns. Never seen before, but seem to work just perfect in the world. The vehicles in this game 
 are so much fun to ride and so easy to control. This game is perfect if you have not played this 
 game you should pick it up immediately and join the hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Halo PC Review
  
  ---
  Introduction 
  I will be reviewing Halo for PC in this review. I love Halo, and will explain why, below.
  ---
 
  
  ---
  Review
  Halo is fantastic, a Half Life beater. Everything about Halo is amazing. Halo was one of the first 
 games for Xbox, which made it such a big success, and since PC hardware can be upgraded easily, 
 Halo looks better on PC then it does on 
  Xbox.
  Halo has good graphics, an amazing environment, the grass looks fantastic, Halo looks tad un realistic, 
 but at the time, the graphics that Halo had were superb. The enemies look great, and generally, 
 the graphics are good. Nothing bad about graphics, but nothing like F. E. A. R. (In other words, nothing 
 fantastic)
  Halo's gameplay is amazing. The game builds a big atmosphere from the start. Killing the Covemant 
 is fantastic, and the free environment is excellent, you can go anywhere you like in a mission, 
 quite literally, like when you need to find 3 passengers with the army vehicle, that was fantastic. 
 Halo just doesn't get boring, the multiplayer helps a lot to that, but Halo's gameplay is always 
 exciting, you won't get bored.
  Halo isn't very expensive now, so getting it for PC shouldn't cost too much, and paying 0-10  
 for a truly fantastic First Person Shooter game is a bargain.
  ---
  
  GET THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenAbeyta
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  And the single player rocks hard. Now i have been playing halo for about, three years, and it has 
 NOT getting old... at all.. 
  Get  you 
 will NOT be sorry.
  W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t W00t 
 W00t W00t W00t get it now.... I'm waiting..................... hurry up! lol. jk..... welll plz 
 try to hurry up..... see im stuck in here and i cant get out till u buy it.... jeez hurry up man! 
 this is what started it all.. Halo 2, and soon to be halo 3. w00t! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_josh9
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved for the PC is incredible. If you have the recommended specs, its even better. 
 The single player campaign is just as gorey and fun as it was on the XBOX, but it now has the at 
 home feel of a PC FPS. If you lack the skillz to pwn, then the easy to use mods are the way. Even 
 if you can mow down the Covies with ease, the mods can be fun, especially the multi-player mods. There 
 are some interesting mods for both single and multi-player experiences, and with the mods, you 
 can get what we've been wanting ever since we first played Halo on the XBOX: bots. The visuals 
 are stunning and gorgeous, and show beautiful craftsmanship in them. With my PC, I realized markings 
 on weapons and vehicles that I could never see on my XBOX. The enhanced sound features are also 
 nice, which can also enhance the multi-player experience. The story is the same as before: Master 
 Chief and Cortana have to defeat the Covenant and stop them from finding Earth. The online and 
 LAN multi-player game can get fun, if your enemies aren't using mods against you that is. It lacks 
 a voice chat system, but it has the standard in-game text system. Furthering the multi-player experience, 
 Microsoft and Bungie released Halo: Custom Edition, an extension to the multi-player experience. 
 With the ability to add new maps, Extend the fun, and pwn more than ever, Custom Edition was a 
 hit. You can download it for free from Gamespot if you want. The maps are great fun, especially 
 if you like to go head-2-head. If you're looking for an awesome fPS, then Halo PC is your game. 
 Download Custom Edition while your at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Halo. I never heard of it until Halo 2 came. This game is probably the best made 
 FPS on a console ever. The controls are so awesome.
  Gameplay 7/10
  The story line is just kick ass. and there are many plot twists and great weapons. But every game 
 has a flaw. There are no great games that are not flawed. The flaw in Halo is Multi player the 
 weapons are just so unbalanced. The pistol is just too godly its like a freaking sniper rifle.
 
  Graphics 5/10
  The graphics may be pretty good but Metroid graphics are better... thats just a shame cause its 
 a gamecube game.
  Sound 8/10
  You can hear all the enemys scream and run and there are all sorts of cool sound effects.
  Value 
 10/10
  This is really old and its bound to be cheap now. So its a pretty good value. Even though i own 
 Halo 2 i never stop playing halo 1
  Reviewers's Tilt 4/10
  I dont like FPS on consoles they are just horrendous because of the horrible control. So i dont 
 really like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say that this is not a recreation of the best Xbox game of all time, but more 
 of an updated port with better multi-player and no huge updates in the single-player campaing.
 
  Single player is fantastic in this game. The story is that of movie quality, the action is well 
 placed and well thoughtout and the difficulty can be adjusted, ranging from very easy to so hard 
 you'll bust your computer with a slugde hammer just to vent out your rage. The enviroments are huge 
 and expansive. The only draw back is one level were you go thourght the same room over and over 
 shooting Flood... I don't want to ruin the game to much, but the huge ploy twist is a bit of a 
 departure from the games central action roots.
  Perhaps the biggest dissapointment is that there is no Co-oP, which was a huge highlight of the 
 Xbox version.
  However, the online multi-player aspects are the much better part of the game (campaign is still 
 great, though) . You can play all the origonal maps from the Xbox version, plus some very well made 
 maps that are exclusive to this version of the game. Most of these maps support vehicles and make 
 well for interesting CTF matches. Multi-player supports up to 16 players, and blasting a guy with 
 a shotgun then fragiing his buddies with a grenade never gets old.
  The graphics are a bit updated from the Xbox version and it has an adjustable framerate option, 
 but if you don't have a decent PC, the graphics will look like a cross between an Xbox and N64 
 game.
  The sound is great. The voice actors perform very well, the music is the most memerable to date. 
 The weapon affects are fitting to each gun, the sound cues are easy to learn, and the coolest weapon 
 to use is the games machine gun called the Assult Rifle (cool name) .
  The controlls are highly adjustable and aiming is spot on and very accurate. Another great feature 
 is that you can hook up and Xbox controller and use it as the controller. Ain't that cool?
  The other bounus is the addition of two new weapons: the Flamethrower (human) and the Plasma Cannon 
 (alien) . While they have their ups and downs, you will see them be used as much as any other weapon 
 in the game.
  So basiclly, this is a fantastic game from begining to end, and multi-player is spatacular. So 
 whether your new to Halo or a vetran of the series, do yourself a favor and buy this game. It's 
 only $20-$30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobhutchinson22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Opening Halo PC from the box and installing it into my computer, I imagined the hours of enjoyment 
 i had gained from the original Halo: Combat evolved for the xbox. The Online multiplayer was a 
 step in the right direction and all the components for a solid PC game are present. However if 
 one is expecting for the next Halo revolution, then Halo 2 is the way to go. The sound stands out 
 well in this game and the variety of maps helps to maintain a long time flow for gamers. Halo PC 
 is a complete first person shooter for the computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordlunch2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  this is a first person shooter i think everyone should have. the graphics are pretty good, if not 
 a little old since i just bought it a few days ago. The music is nice and fits the game well, giving 
 it the epic feeling it deserves. the controls are much like any other first person shooter, and 
 they all work great. i never had a problem aiming so far. The gameplay is where this game truly 
 shines, its got a great story line and makes you feel just like you are in a movie. Although level 
 take a while to get through and the environments can get really boring. The online is pretty good 
 too. Theres alot of vehicles to drive around in and cause havoc. For a FPS fan, this is a must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meischris39
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  From the grandeur of the pc shooter franchise, the competition is hot, half life, counter strike, 
 unreal tournament, quake, doom, these are seamless with the word fps, names that bungie weren't 
 about to mess with all that fast. Halo was originally schedualed as a pc release for 01, but with 
 the impending release of xbox and microsofts' hostile takeover of bungie, the biggest money making 
 idea was born, a great, console fps. The market had been dead for well ever, console fps's never 
 really caught on, mainly due to the gamepad's linear control scheme, sure you had ports of quake 
 and unreal, but aside from that the only impeding threat was the aging medal of honor series, the 
 industry needed something fresh, halo is that freshness.
  
  Halo itself, is a futuristic fps, which takes place mainly, amongst the ecosystem of the halo ring, 
 the basic story is, a ship crashes on the ring, swarms of aliens, destroy the ring. That is about 
 as much as you need to know, on the story front. The hero of the hour is master chief, a legendary 
 human mercanery, dressed in a titanium body shell, for the most part this is very cool, but considering 
 master chief has the human personality equivialent of beige, hes not the most interesting of characters, 
 this is mainly reflected in the storyline which at the beginning is grinding at best, coupled with 
 the bore of bungie cutscenes you don't really feel much for the games epicity until well into the 
 2/3rd of the game. Onto the meat of the game, is a pretty linear fps, it has all you would come 
 to expect, quickfire gameplay with lots of gore. To create gore, you need a selection of kickass 
 arms, and while halo does deliver on the selection of weaponry you get, there just really isn't 
 enough of it, to warrant some serious selection. Whilst halo is mainly a linear game, the revolutionary 
 physics make it all worthwhile, they may not be all in your face, but its the little things that 
 really catch you eye, like the bullets from your gun, bouncing to the floor (which you can hear) 
 and then rolling down a cliff side, or the beautiful suspension of the vehicles tires, mainly the 
 warthog. On the note of vehicles, this is also another shining distinction for halo, there are 
 about 5 vehicles in total, which may not seem alot, but the hard work, and realism you can feel 
 in them is intense, its clearly something that, bungie have thought long and hard about and it 
 really pays, off, you cant just blast your way through the game with a tank, as some parts require 
 flying, some require quick maneuverability and some just physically wont let you use vehicles. 
 For the pc halo has a pretty predictable layout with wasd coming into full force with movement, 
 for xbox its a different story, and the button placement is superb, vehicles and character control 
 have never ever worked better on a joypad. Level design is pretty average at its best times, cramped 
 spaces which consist of alien bases which all are exactly the same, in layout mapping and modelling, 
 these aren't even spread out throughout the game, it is combined into a 1 level strech where you 
 have to make your way through these exact same bases, and then go through them all over again only 
 backwards, it really seems as though bungie were either lazy or just stretched for time, amongst 
 the fools gold there are a few gems, these are the open planned level with flowing waterfalls and 
 long stretches of battlefield, which alow for the games beauty and engine to really stand out.
 
  
  Halo in itself is a beautiful game, only helped along by its luscious environments, and hi res 
 textures. The pc version consists of basic visual altering features, and on full wack, its quite 
 astonishing that a game that uses such little memory can blast out some quite amazing physics and 
 textures. The xbox version is no exception, looking at least 3/4 of a pc port that dates 2 years 
 after the original, sometimes the frame rate can drop in huge swarms of the flood and covenant 
 but for the most part its plain sailing all the way. Cutscenes are a severe disappointment, whilst 
 they do retain most of the beauteous graphics of the core game there isn't really alot of action 
 or even storytelling in them which makes the breaks in the game a big big disappointment.. Character 
 models are pretty good, master chief looks incredible and so do most of the enemies, but for the 
 latter part of the game it consists of rehashes of old characters but with a different colour pallette 
 than before, variation would be highly refreshing. Although the claustrophobic areas of the game 
 look exactly the same as the previous, the open areas are lushous, high res polygons, blend with 
 a living breathing enviroment make the 2nd and the ice level look breathtaking.
  
  The music is indescribably some of the best ever heard, im downloading the soundtrack as we speak, 
 the music composed by Martin O'donell is mainly just pure gold. Scores of choirs play throughout 
 and from the getgo judging the game on sound you would definately want to keep this game.
  Sound effects are used to perfection bullets bouncing, metal flying, and skulls crashing are just 
 brilliant. If i had to nitpick with the sound, and nitpick i shall, the covenant (one of the main 
 enemy forces in halo) speak english which is irregualar and kind of weird at times, and the voice 
 acting of master chief leaves a lot to be desired, and even some of the other characters.
  
  Halo lasts about 6-10 hours all in all, for single player but multiplayer could keep you up 
 a whole lot longer, modes include capture the flag, deathmatch and the other regulars, for $39 
 you cant really go wrong, it has its ups and its downs, but for the most part halo's 10 action 
 packed levels are well worth their buck. Sure it has its horrible repetitiveness, and its highly 
 unimpressive story but you just cant keep away from the fact that it is an overally impressive 
 game that is reccomendable to anyone of the appropriate age group.
  
  The Sun Lolly King^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frrrkk
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  i have played games like vice city..... and true crime..... and unreal and well alot of different 
 games but so far halo is the most fun.
  
  the variety is great and the weapons are superb, not to mention the hilarity of the creatures wen 
 they see they have been stuck with a bomb.
  
  the ups. great fun not too hard to learn, guns are great and in a wide viriaty. the vehicles are 
 just as good with air units and something to shoot them down on the warthogs. then theirs the special 
 upgreades which add to the feeling of the hunt if you will. and finally, the multiplayer modes 
 are great fun and not in short supply!
  
  the downs: not many at all but the multiplayer lag gets really irritating, the need to find med 
 kits though fun can in some respects ruin the level you were on if you respawn with that health. 
 and the cars are a little bumpy but not too bad.
  
  so all in all i couldnt help but thank God for having some-one make tjhe game, for even the bad 
 side couldnt bring me down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  HALO is really cool. I enjoy it on the PC because I haven't got an Xbox. The levels are really 
 good and challenging. The storyline is great and I like watching the movie clips from it as well. 
 The guns are great and the gameplay is excellent. I like driving the 4WD because it is so cool. 
 Also I play online as well on the PC so I can verus anyone online aroun the world with HALO on 
 PC. The game is really fun to play and challenging. Master Cheif is really cool and the game is 
 excellent. So get this game on either Xbox or PC because it is great. I have played HALO on Xbox 
 before and it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubern
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Halo, obviously, is a classic of the FPS genre. That has been, I think, clearly enough demonstrated. 
 The game is good, and I must admit to having never played it until it came out for PC. (Just because 
 I own no consoles...)
  
  That said, the game suffers from some problems. Repetitive level design, especially a lack of a 
 quicksave. (I can see this for a console, but a quicksave on a PC FPS is generally expected, or 
 else) For the PC, you can tell the code was not well-worked out, graphically, as the game runs 
 badly on many PCs that it should not be chugging on. I've seen it played on three seperate computers, 
 and only on one would it playably run with the details up. The graphics are surprisingly bad for 
 the amount of system resources they require, and in general, the game's graphics smell very much 
 of a console game's.
  
  The gameplay, though, is as fun and entertaining as ever, and the story is at least somewhat gripping, 
 an anomaly for a videogame (And FPS's in particular) . Enemies, at least up till the Flood, demonstrate 
 an astonishing intelligence and canniness.
  
  All in all, a fine game to get, especially with the price so low. Just be sure that you're well 
 over the requirements, even the recommended ones, if you want to have graphics worthy of a computer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Science2000luke
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Some people decided to tweak with shooting mechanics, and VOILA... they created a first person shooter 
 that feels differently than any other one in the past. Halo's characteristics make it a game of 
 great variety in relatively few places.
  
  The science fiction storyline is one of the few outstanding characteristic of this game, particularly 
 because the ability to [erfectly control his/her environment while playing the game. For example, 
 playing alongside AI marines makes the gameplay much easier, but their spontinaeity sucks the depth 
 from a game that could have been much deeper.
  
  The great variety of ways to kill one's opponents (i. e. the Covenant and the Flood) makes the game 
 very fun, but only for a short time, unless you plan on immersing yourself in the multiplayer mode. 
 Only then does the game's depth reveal itself, however the campaign, single-player game is very 
 limiting, for the repetitive shooting, becoming mroe intense at the end when the Flood's involved, 
 is something that makes the game slightly tedious.
  
  Even if Halo slightly suffers from repetitive gameplay, it compensates for it by making the environments 
 very manipulative by the player, until you realize that any object that can be picked up, driven 
 or used can be used as a weapon. The game's great story, fun gameplay and immersive environment 
 make it a fun adventure, evem if it does lack great depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngsunlee
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  this review is going ti tell you all the detail about this game first its gameplay it actually 
 like cs (counter-strike) thats what i like about the graphics ehh not that really good sound is 
 a little cool you barely here them talk when your in campaghn value awsome and tilt its alright 
 so make sure you buy this gane its good and very cool so make surte you buy this game ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok o k ok ok ok o k ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok k ok ok ok 
 ko ko ok ok oko ko ko kok ok ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grease_Bits
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game expecting so much, amazing graphics, revolutionary gameplay, great story 
 and many many other things. But what a let down when none of it lived up to what the game really 
 was.
  
  Where should I start, the single player campaign is fairly good at the beginning but once you get 
 to the mid-way point of the game you start seeing the same levels used over and over again. Then 
 it just starts going completely downhill, you find yourself backtracking through the levels which 
 I have never hade the pleasure of doing in a FPS. Though you may be able to explore the so called 
 new parts of the world while your back tracking it's really the same levels that you've been playing 
 throughout the whole game. Not the mention that the story is very dull, it really feels like the 
 story was thrown in at the last minute, since it's really pointless, there's no need for the story 
 in this game it's completely forgettable. The AI is pretty good (not the best, but it does a great 
 job) , but that gets dragged down by you seeing the same grunts over and over again. In the middle 
 they change it up a little bit, but soon after youre fighting the grunts all over again. Now this 
 would kind of be acceptable if the single player lasted 20+ hours. But the fact is, it's more like 
 10 hours or less (and even that may be too nice) which is really too short considering your basically 
 playing the same thing throughout the whole game.
  
  Now there's one horrible problem with the game that drags everything down with it, the optimization. 
 This is a horribly optimized game, I find it basically unplayable. For someone who has two computers 
 that are well above the requirements and have no trouble at all playing Doom 3 and the Prey demo 
 this is unbelievable. I'm plagued with constant frame rate drops; at times I was playing the game 
 at 5 frames per second, not to mention that I couldn't get the game running at pass 20 frames per 
 second. The graphics themselves are pretty good for the time, but since there are some serious 
 optimization issues with this game I have no choice but to lower the graphics score substantially.
 
  
  The one point of the game which fully lived up to my expectations was the sound. From menu screen 
 music to the sound of the grunts screening (which you will hear alot) . The only bad thing that 
 I can say is that when you fight the same enemies over and over again the noises can get really 
 annoying. The music it's self is beautiful and I can see myself buying the soundtrack in the near 
 future, well done.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is nothing special either, it's run and gun gameplay with vehicles. 
 Your fair better off with a Battlefield game or Counter Strike than this, if you want to get this 
 game for the multiplayer, just don't save your money for something better.
  
  This game was such a disappointment for me, I came in expecting a game better than Half-Life 2 
 and I was completely let down. I'm not saying by any means that the Xbox version is just as bad 
 as this, but I hope you've learned one thing from this review and that is don't buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all, can your computer support this game? If yes, then you have yourself a treat. If not, 
 then you might want to upgrade before the wash of truly taxing games hits the market.
  After determining that yes, your comp. can support it, you'll notice that it's a carbon copy of 
 the XBOX version, though it lacks a co-op mode. Still, that's the least of your worries. 
  Though the single player adventure is very fun to go through, and (for the most part) runs without 
 lag (at least, if you can support it or if you change things around) and looks well done for an 
 older game. The story takes place after a planet known as Reach (barely referenced planet that 
 the covenant destroy) falls to the covenant, you make a blind lightspeed jump, hoping to be safe. 
 Instead, you end up at a device known as "Halo". On this device, you face the covenant, the flood, 
 and a devious little "monitor". The story is brilliant.
  But, that's not where the game truly excels; online multiplayer. Depending on your computer, you 
 can play against up to 16 other people and truly reek havoc. With many multiplayer modes to choose 
 from, you have plenty of options.
  Whatever system you play this game on, I personally like it better than H2, because you have the 
 good pistol, the good assault rifle, and the better armor. However, since this is the only halo 
 game on the PC, you will fall in love with the series (if you haven't already) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimrider94
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  This the best First-person shooter I have ever played on the PC ( probably because I haven't played 
 Half-Life or Doom) . The story is deep and suspenseful. It's just a great game. Now let me break 
 it down for you:
  
  Gameplay: Halo is fairly well setup. It uses the basic WASD config so it doesn't take that long 
 to learn, but driving a warthog was kind of new to me so it took sometime to get used to it. The 
 game gives plenty of time to play and cutscenes are great to watch so you aren't deprived of anything.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good. The frame rate is steady and the characters look good. 
 The environment is really good and well-designed. 
  
  Sound: The sound is the best. The music fits exactly with the game and and suspense to battles.
 
  
  Value: The game gets boring after and the multiplayer doesn't help that much either, but the multiplayer 
 fun however, just not on the trial version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved is a great first person shooter thats really great.
  The sound is amazing. The soundtrack sounds like The Benedictine Monks lol. The graphics could 
 be better but its a port of a four or five year game. The Campaign in Halo: Combat Evolved is done 
 really well and the online is awesome. There are many different game types you ate able to pay 
 online, like Capture the Flag, Oddball, and Slayer. Slayer is basically death match. I love Online 
 first person shooters and this seems to be the best one I have ever played that runs ok on my outdated 
 computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robofan13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  The game was awesome. The storyline made more sence than any other game I've played. I give it a 
 perfect 10. Plus the weapons and characters and vehicles were the best ever. If you haven't played 
 this game, PLAY IT. You will have a freakin blast. I just have to say that the people over at microsoft 
 made a very good decision for helping make this game. Thats all, great game. As i said before, 
 perfect game. Halo for XBOX RULES. Im sure that Halo 2 is also a great game but they better hurry 
 up and make it for PC or people will be pretty ticked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer_SRU
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Short answer, Yes. The game dosn't lack anything apart from maybe a few sketchy graphics. The story 
 mode is exciting as well as challenging at the same time. Its a good buy, with the multiplayer 
 always keeping you on your feet and always exciting you wenever you play it. With a multitude of 
 multiplayer maps and a lengthy story line, you feel that you are the Master Chief and the fate 
 of Halo is on your sholders. There are a multitude of vehicles and no shortage of enimies to kill 
 and claim triple kills with. My verdict: get the game, its cheap and will keep you playing for 
 a long time yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxpoopsicle567
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is just as good on pc as it is on xbox because u #1 can make the graphics and 
 sound as good as u like and #2 u can play online for free without needing to get xbox live. the 
 multiplayer is probably the best part of the game u can do the in game chat of course. u can make 
 ur own multiplayer games u can create ur own server or either join a different server. and there's 
 tons of possibilitys like slayer, ctf, king of the hill....
  u can even choose ur own in game color! The campaign is fun too. u can get to be a super human 
 in a war against aliens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RolandReeve
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  If you always wanted to play Halo and you can't buy an xbox than you can buy Halo for the PC. It 
 is the same game as Halo for the xbox but it packs a little bit more. For Halo for the PC it has 
 Halo online. Halo online is fun but it is very laggy. Besides that the online has more, online 
 you can download Halo CE. This Halo CE is an unofficial update to the Halo online. In Halo CE you 
 can download more maps for halo online. It gives Halo for the pc an extra pack. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaptoR_249
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Simply Addicting, a Game I could play for 8 hours straight on MULTIPLAYER without getting bored... 
 oh and that was only on the demo. I finally bought the full version, man enough cant be said to 
 how well this game was made. I mean its awesome!! I cant put into words how fun it is to shoot 
 down banshees with a Pistol, oh and that Sniper easy kills with the enemy wondering what hit em. 
 Multiplayer is what makes this game so unbelievably fun. The single player is o. k. but its nothing 
 compared to what multiplayer offers, providing you have a computer that can run it well, which 
 now days almost everyone does. Then all the different game modes, there is no way I would lose 
 interest. Every game is different; diff players, levels, weapons, vehicles, settings, its just 
 crazy. The Game draws you into the level almost like you are the one in the game running around 
 in master chiefs gear. Microsoft, Gearbox and Bungie hit the jackpot with this game, and I dont 
 think its yet to be challenged. Rightfully so, its that good!!
  Props!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for an average first-person shooter that's a little different than everything 
 else you might be playing, then Halo could be for you. If you can overlook some of it's glaring 
 problems, then you will have fun with it.
  
  The gameplay is mediocre at best, with the only interesting mechanic being coldcocking, which is 
 already featured in a lot better games right now. The shield is somewhat interesting however. It's 
 a bit unnecessary seeing as it doesn't make the game easier or harder than any other FPS, but it 
 does add a unique touch.
  
  I also might add that the game is EXTREMELY boring sometimes, but the end of the game makes up 
 for it. Don't start wishing there was something differnt than the Covenant to kill, what you get 
 you WILL regret, trust me. Rooms and areas are reused constantly by the lazy developers who made 
 this game, causing you to possibly get lost a freaking lot and get very bored. I do not lie when 
 I say this is the most repetitive game that I have ever played.
  
  The graphics aren't that good, but it is a PC port and it might have been good for it's time on 
 the original Xbox. The lighting is nice in my opinion, and the glares that appear on object as 
 you move around is good-looking as well.
  
  The sound is okay. The walking sounds are really nice, and the character dialogue is EXCELLENT. 
 The gun sounds are so-so, sometimes sounding not very realistic. But I still have a thing for the 
 assault rifle noise, it just sounds so cool. I can't really explain it.
  
  Only buy Halo if you want something differnt, if you want a good storyline (with minor WTFness 
 and plot holisms) , and if you want an epic game that has epic music come in at the perfect times 
 to make you feel like you're the main character in a sci-fi action movie, the latter being what 
 Halo does the best. The end of the game is exhilarating, but I won't spoil anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackad
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Halo fans, This may sound a little fruity but, its true. I have played Halo from the Xbox version. 
 It was good but it gets a little boring without xbox live. But playing Halo for the pc, i have 
 to say that it is much better because there are new maps, new levels for multi player, and some 
 new weapons. Okay I know for sure that 1/3 halo fans have to agree with me. Halo is the best fantasy 
 / action ever!!
  
  
  New Point
  
  During When I was playing Halo, I realized that the lag or compatibility were not so good. I mean 
 my desktop is great but still, I was thinkingwhen will Microsoft continue with this compatibility?" 
 still it is a great game for the pc.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Halo has its own place on First Person Shooting history for all it means for both Xbox console 
 and fortunately PCs. The story puts you in the position to defend planet Earth from an alien invasion. 
 That is pretty simple background but the good and incredible part regards gameplay. There are constant 
 battles, explosions and of course, deaths. Do not expect to keep your marines all the time. You 
 have constant support and many others will show up. That is what Halo is all about. It is not a 
 simple first person shooter. You can find great action playing by yourself, you have co-op of 
 others marines, open field and indoor combat, different vehicles and weapons and also multiplayer 
 support. The game is very good regarding to graphics and sound, so you will not be disappointed. 
 Go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirklightstar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  This is a great addition to anyones collection of games, it is one of the best Xbox to PC conversions 
 ever. Even though it is a great game online and offline as I stated in my review deck it is a bit 
 watered down., The controls are not (suprisingly) the first thing that comes to mind, its the framerate, 
 although it still looks great and plays great the framerate does drop significantly after a large 
 amount of shooting and *death* but this still doesn't mean that you should not buy it. This games 
 multiplayer has had me hooked the day I bought Halo on the Xbox, now it is even better with the 
 added bonus of being able to play with those who do not own Xbox live or even an Xbox makes this 
 games online the best that I have seen for years. Add the immersive story line and the great gameplay 
 and you have a winner, Bungie what would I do without you, oh yeah my homework, God bless you Bungie! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WudaiWarrior5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Halo is one heck of a great game. Even though it is another one of those games where you get to 
 walk around and shoot people, it is still great. Another great thing is that the whole game is 
 somewhat futuristic. It is this way because there's very high tech weapons that we do not have 
 today. Among these things are plasma grenades, hovercraft like vehicles and many more. The whole 
 game is just awesome. Also the levels are somewhat difficult. The first ones are about average, 
 but as you go on the levels get harder and harder to pass. It deserves a solid score of 20 out 
 of 10. However, this is just al my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymondude91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  wow, who tought that being a genetically altered person with big guns, who kills big bad-ass aliens, 
 will be so damm fun, uhm, well, i have seen this before (in doom, except, you use a marine, not 
 an gentically bla bla soldier) 
  ok, so this is halo, the story goes as this:
  one day, the pillar of autumm, a big spaceship, was being chased by a group of covenant, the worst 
 kind of aliens in the galaxy, well, so?
  well, the pillar of autumm, was trapped, as it couldnt go to earth becaues of one thing i forgot 
 its name, but the point is that they were trapped, so, were are the defenses?
  well, the poa, had some gentetically altered soldiers called spartans, but many of them were killed 
 by the covenant, so thats where you come, you are master chief, the last spartan, at last hope 
 for the human life!
  ok so now we know, the story, but what else?
  well this is a FPS and a damm great one, the graphics are great, and some of the levels are inmmense, 
 one of them (the assault) is so loong, i finishe in heroic on 2 hours!
  and yep, this games is diificult, but dont worry my friend, there are easy, normal, heroic and 
 legendary, difficults, (heroic should be played after finishing normal so you can know how it goes, 
 and legendary should be playe after finishing all other difficulties and played multiplayer after 
 a while so you are a little bit experienced) but man, legendary is so freaking hard!!1
  but hey, this is great, also the music is great, great because i have a good sound system, but 
 yea is great!
  so i recommend buy it when you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McHenry2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't own an xbox, so I waited, and waited, and eventually bought it for the computer for arond 
 $20. This game has GREAT VALUE FOR THAT KIND OF MONEY. If you do not have xbox, GET THIS GAME. 
 You can have modded servers, which completely kicks boota. There are WAY more maps than in the 
 xbox version, and if you have a decent computer, well mine is pentium 4 2.4ghz geforce 4 MX with 
 AGP, 256mb ram, and it runs dandy, all you get is server lag which varies depending on the hosts 
 connection, the amount of vehicles, players, etc. Sometime the lag is so bad though, you have to 
 switch servers. Loading a game is painless, 10sec TOPS. GREAT GAME BUY IT ITS REALLY CHEAP FOR 
 THE FUN YOUR GONNA HAVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhead108932
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  this game ROCKS. Its soild with tons of action. but I have to say the multiplayer lags a whole 
 lot. and if your an Xbox player but just get this game for the online and new levels and wepons. 
 Then you will be REALLY dissapointed. Because Its really hard to stick people with all that lag. 
 But if you have two or three people playing on a LAN connection. then the mouse will just Basicaly 
 incress your acruessy. DO NOT buy a controler, my friend got a controler for this Game. because 
 he has x box but he got it for the online play. His controler is fine but when we play against 
 each other then i pretty much own him. because of the mouse and key board. its eaiser to no scope. 
 and stick (2 people doesn't lag that much) . And the new levels are really fun but. they don't fit 
 the halo universe AT ALL. they are just fun multiplaer levels but they don't fit the universe AT 
 ALL, even most of the custom Edition MAPS or better fit for halo. and I haven't fineshed singal 
 player but I've played it on the Xbox. with co-op with my friends. So if you have an option of 
 getting it on Xbox. then get it on Xbox because its 4player split screen is no lag (obvously) and 
 you can system link it. and the new wepons are REALLY CHEAP. you must turn them off befroe making 
 a game because people will use them and they are placed in spaces where people can get right as 
 they spawn. but get it on Xbox. unless you have it on Xbox and just want the new levels. they are 
 fun but its looks kinda wierd with spartans running around like a forest. where you can here squealls 
 in the Backround. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  there really isnt much that i can say about this game, it is simple, the fact is it is jmust so 
 much fun.
  the graphics are the usual, nothing special but they are far from being bad, gun effects and stuff 
 all seems pretty nic when you get into it. i really liked the sounds in this game though, the guns, 
 i thought, just sounded really cool not to mention the grunts as they run around you squealing 
 for help.
  the gameplay in this is what really makes the game shine, things are just so smooth and clear it 
 seems you always know what your doing nd where your going in the campaign and the reloading and 
 firing of gun in general just seems bith realistic and fun, there really isnt anything bad i cn 
 say about it.
  online, well this is a different story, its basically as good as the single player... but better, 
 as you obviousely play other people the game becomes for challenging yet much more fun, the game 
 types d maps are pretty simple but it means you dont get lost and your never too far from a fight. 
 neither does it loose any f it graphical or technical qualities from the single plyer modes.
  the story, i really liked the story in this, it was interesting, and definately original, in al 
 honesty i havent got all the way through the gme yet but so far the missions have been rather eventful.
 
  the only problem is have with thi game is the lack of content, thre are only a few guns, most 
 f which you come across during the first few missions, there are a very small amount of different 
 enemies to fight, i think around 5, but im not sure, and onlnie there anrent many great maps, there 
 are a few, but till, not really enough.
  i really would recommend this game to any fps fan whether you play offline, online or both, its 
 just genrally a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeymoORly
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Halo, being the game that made the Xbox popular, has finally made it's way to the PC. Having played 
 both versions, I can spot out the differences immediately.
  
  - The jackles don't have those patterns on their shields
  - The scratches and shine effects are 
 no longer on the assault rifle
  - The shininess altogether has been brought down
  
  Despite those, the game does look better than it's Xbox counterpart thanks to some DirectX 9 effects. 
 It wouldn't be fair to rate the graphics due to 2006's extremely high standards, so we are going 
 by how the graphics were when the game first came out. The game makes great use of bump mapping 
 and specular effects. The main problem though is that some systems may have their frame rates take 
 a dip. I run on a (crappy) 9600 XT and it runs at 30 FPS on 1024x768. Though that seems reasonable, 
 it is inexcusable since it can run Half Life 2, a game that looks far superior, at 60 fps at that 
 resolution.
  
  But enough about the graphics, lets move onto the gameplay. The shooting is intense and has hardly 
 aged. You can carry only two weapons at once, so that adds a good deal of strategy to the game. 
 You are also put against different enemy types and they are mixed around so you have to plan ahead 
 which weapon combo you are going to use.
  
  The multiplayer has been beefed up from the Xbox version. You can now play up to 16 players and 
 there are new maps. This is probably the biggest reason to come back to Halo, as there are still 
 people playing the multiplayer after 3 years!
  
  The sound is great, and if you have surround sound speakers, you're in for a treat. All the gun 
 sounds have a good punch to them and are really satisfying to use.
  
  Well that sums up my review. If you haven't played Halo for the Xbox and have a PC, go out and 
 buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossyboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  I bought this game long ago, purely because i played the trial and thought it was excellent... 
 the main aspect of the game is multi-player (16 player max servers, slightly laggy, but still...) 
 exellent weapons, awesome maps, and a big community of gamers involved with Halo. The Single-player 
 is also quite good, and long... keeps it going that little further... with an exellent storyline 
 and a great campaign against the Covenent, its an brilliant adventure.
  
  There is also an "Expansion" that was released, called Halo CE (Custom Edition) it allows users 
 to edit and even create Halo maps (With the right equipment, of course) , and there are literally 
 hundreds of ready down-loadable maps available from www. halomaps. org (you can also get the full 
 download of 'CE there)
  
  Overall, Halo: Combat Evolved (and especially CE) , are spectacular games, Single-player along with 
 the Multi-player action creates an amazing game...
  
  ... Halo... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtholtz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  My wife suprised me with an early Father's Day present -- an Xbox 360. So what did I do? Used the 
 360 to go back and play Halo before I get overwhelmed by next gen stuff and miss out on these important 
 video game milestones that I missed these last several years while the kids were very young and 
 rightfully taking up most of my time. Now they can play along with Dad!
  
  This is a great game, age notwithstanding. You want to talk about an aged game, I went online and 
 was looking around recently for playable versions of Ultima III and Ultima IV, games I was totally 
 into as a teen. Nostalgia has a way of glossing over your memory, and past a half-hour of fooling 
 around with a U IV port on PC, I was done. ALl I can say is, I missed the fuss over FPS's the last 
 many years. I had played Castle Woflenstein 3D when it was that shareware download, but I didn't 
 progress into Doom and the rest... just recently I've been wanting to play FPS after enjoying Siphon 
 Filter on PSP (which is actually 3rd person with more tactical elements) , and if Halo is any indication 
 of what I've missed the past few years, I'm going to be playing a whole lot of games like this 
 in the months to come.
  
  This game survives well in my mind because it has a good story, the AI of the Covenent and Flood 
 makes it interesting. The outdoor environments play very well. I've done the single player campaign, 
 now I want to get my kids to play with me so we can do some multiplayer. Yes, the interiors are 
 quite redundant and its easy to go around in circles, perhaps I'm easily pleased because these 
 games are so new to me, but I think it still represents an awesome value based upon its realistic 
 street price nowadays.
  
  Only downside is, of course, not online multiplayer. But for $10 or so on a good used copy, this 
 is so worth either buying or certainly renting to play the single player campaign all the way through.
 
  
  Now all I need to do is complete campaign on Halo2, go make a noob out of myself online, then wait 
 like everyone else for Halo 3.
  
  Play this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squirrelscience
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Halo finally made it to the PC, and it was definitely worth the wait! Halo provides an diverse 
 array of weapons at Master Chief (the protagonist) 's disposal. From the Human Pistol, to the alien 
 design Needler, each weapon has its certain applications, making each of them invaluable at one 
 time or another. 
  Gameplay is fast-paced and exciting, particularly at higher difficulty levels when the computer 
 AI is in full swing. The graphics are crisp and clean, even if the environments are somewhat sterile. 
 Lower level systems should be able to run it, but you'll want at least a Ge Force 6600GT to keep 
 the gameplay smooth at the highest settings. A healthy dose of RAM doesn't hurt either, especially 
 for cutting into load times. 
  The Campaign tells a reasonably solid story over the course of ten single-player levels, which 
 utilize a checkpoint system to save your progress at pre-set locations. While the game does not 
 provide the player with the ability to save at any given time, you'll rarely miss such a feature 
 as the pre-set checkpoints are well spaced. If you die, you'll never have to back track more than 
 a few minutes. All-in-all the campaign should take a good 12 - 16 hours on the first play-through, 
 a bit longer on the higher difficulty settings, even for FPS veterans.
  Halo's sound may not be revolutionary, but it's definitely a solid feature. Weapon fire sounds 
 are satisfying, explosions have a nice concussive feel, and the cries of horror of your enemies 
 just never get old.
  Enemy AI is quite good, but does have the occasional flaw, e. g. an Elite jumps off the side of 
 a bridge to avoid a grenade blast. But those instances are few and far between, and certainly forgivable. 
 
  A word on vehicles. Transportation can be extremely helpful while traversing the landscape of Halo. 
 There's nothing quite like a Human tank, to put you in charge of a situation on the ground. Alternately, 
 if air superiority is more your thing, you can jump in the cockpit of a Covenant Banshee, complete 
 with dual plasma cannons and a fuel rod gun. Unfortunately, opportunities to use the more powerful 
 vehicles during the campaign, are few and far between. All the more reason to use Multi-player, 
 which I won't speak to as I've yet to use it (dial-up is the bane of my existence) .
  In essence Halo: Combat Evolved, is a solid FPS, and a good choice for both beginners and veterans 
 of the genre. Highly recommended, and certainly a bargain at today's prices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  This is really old, but still fun. I played for a short while a few days ago and I ruled at it. 
 The graphics were revolutionary at the time but aren't really good today. Still, that was about 
 5 years ago. Back in 2001. The guns were very creatively made. There is absoloutely no anti-aliasing, 
 which sucks nowadays. The 3D rendering engine is very efficient. This game is also very easy to 
 mod. I created tons of mods for this. Also, the AI was pretty advanced at the time. Most of that 
 is probably scripted but the AI was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth2007
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  the story is kind of stupid because master cheif barely has any dialog and its not challenging 
 enough. i was expecting the graphics to be the same as the back of the box but i was wrong it has 
 the same graphics as the trial version. the multiplayer is awsome though, but sometimes it gets 
 a little annoying when someone is in a banshee and when there r snipers picking u off as soon as 
 u respawn. this is a awsome online game especially if u know the ppl u r playing agaisnt in real 
 life. i think this one is better than the xbox version because of the online multiplayer and the 
 new stuff. its kind of weird that gamespot rated the xbox version better, i think they both should 
 be the same or the PC version higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC_NC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games on the PC. The ability to play with hundreds of people across 
 the world without any monthly fees like with XBOX Live is very welcome in my eyes. However there 
 is a downside. Because people have nothing to lose by mucking about on the servers, you do get 
 the odd n00b who just wants to screw everyone up. Also, many servers are hosted by individuals, 
 especially my favourite - the stunt servers. This reduces the number who can join and once, say 
 over 6 people do join, the game gets too laggy to play.
  
  Talking about stunt servers, Halo has always been fun. I've found it more fun over Halo 2, as vehicles 
 bounce off each other, don't explode so you can send them flying and are capable of doing jumps 
 and flips and things like that. Hence people brought out servers where all you did was that. I 
 find these a nice break from normal Slayer or CTF, but they also suffer from people who want to 
 disrupt stunts with the odd grenade and slow servers.
  
  I would review the campaign, but i think we all know about that. Halo PC was brought out to mainstream 
 the online capability. It would of been nice to have a co-operative campaign, as many people have 
 wanted.
  
  The posted minimum spec is, as always, too low to enjoy this game. At least ATI 9600 (and equivalent 
 nVidia) is what i recommend. I can run this at a resolution of 1280x1024 at the highest settings 
 fine with my 9600XT.
  
  If you get or already have this game, download Halo CE (Custom Edition) immediately! This is where 
 people make their own maps, and home to a thriving halo community. Better fun than the original 
 halo, and that's saying something!
  
  Currently available for 10, so value is high! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeBoy0910
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out on xbox i thought it wouldnt be that good. So when it came out on 
 PC, i decided to buy it as i dont hav an xbox and wanted to try it out myself. I was amaed at the 
 graphics, for a game that came out 3 years ago, it just looks brilliant. I got a little confused 
 in the story line but other thn that, i enjoyed the game very much.
  The best part is the multiplayer. This is just sooooooooo much fun! Especially decent map with 
 16 people, its jsut great. Other than this, mods are always great fun. I havnt actually tried many 
 yet, but when i start playing it again, ill be downloading every decent mod available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winnunez
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  A very nice game indeed when starting out the story copes you in, And the game has a wierd mystique 
 that keeps you going on and keeps you excited and very intense. A game that is very Innovative 
 trying out different stuffs which without this innovative creation probably the game will turn 
 to your average alien shooter. The uniqueness of the game makes you feel as if your part of the 
 story and in the world of halo. You won't put this game down unless your finish with as I said 
 there is something about this game that make you go on. And the multiplayer an awesome additon 
 to this title, Blasting each one with this cool looking plasma guns till judgement day comes totally 
 rocks. You can run this game in it's highest setting without a pricey video card even though the 
 game still looks solid, The sound is excellent some suprising attacks from covenants (enemy) will 
 make you wow; The voice acting is also fine but not quite But I guess that won't matter to much. 
 The gameplay is blasting and pounding, You can even ride Moblies and ships which can help u banish 
 more covenants! Faster and much more Better! Cool guns ranging from your a pistol to a Plasma rocket 
 launcher, Even the Pistols is cool cause you can zoom in! Great gun for headshots (Yup headshots 
 are effective even to the mighty covenants) .
  Overall Halo: Combat Evolved is a very solid game that needs to be played if your starting out 
 in world of halo, If you are a fan of Halo 2 and haven't played this awesome title your missing 
 the whole halo universe, 
  Master Chief Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgames123
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  Excellent Port. 
  I was looking for a good computer game with online play, since I can't get online support for my 
 PS2. Then I found that halo had been ported to the PC. I immediately bought it and went straight 
 for the multiplayer. After getting slaughtered, I played the game's so-so single player mode. It 
 was fun, but a bit too short. The multiplayer is the real reason to buy this game. But I don't 
 need to tell you that. You will need a pretty good graphics card to see all of this game, but it's 
 all worth it in the end. The music is great, and sets an epic tone for the game itself. Definetly 
 buy this game and have a friend buy it too. It's always funner when you play with a friend. Believe 
 me. 
  
  And another thing.
  
  Don't support all rocket games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedominator911
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Its not the first time i play this game but ill tell you one thing, that if you download it you 
 wont regret it because the graphics are great and the gameplay is just fantastic but you know hat 
 the best thing about it taht there incredible mods for that game so yea I run a server and its 
 great. I have Death mod on it. Its so fun come on my server just find the name !DEATH MOD! and 
 youll be playing the best game in your life. YEa so come on and play feel free to right me back 
 no matter what you have to say ill be always glad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for a good computer game with online play, since I can't get online support for my 
 PS2. Then I found that halo had been ported to the PC. I immediately bought it and went straight 
 for the multiplayer. After getting slaughtered, I played the game's so-so single player mode. It 
 was fun, but a bit too short. The multiplayer is the real reason to buy this game. But I don't 
 need to tell you that. You will need a pretty good graphics card to see all of this game, but it's 
 all worth it in the end. The music is great, and sets an epic tone for the game itself. Definetly 
 buy this game and have a friend buy it too. It's always funner when you play with a friend. Believe 
 me. 
  
  And another thing.
  
  Don't support all rocket games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricane04343
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Rarely have I been so disappointed by a game! Why? Because HALO is simply bad? No, definitely not, 
 but I've never seen a game with so many possiblities making so few use of them.
  
  But let's have a closer look at Halo.
  
  First, let's look at a few general things: HALO has 
 a very nice physics engine, one of the best aspects of the game. Throwing grenades will make your 
 foes, as well as stuff like guns etc., soar up into the air, and everything physically correct. 
 Also, you shouldn's try to shoot down an enemy aircraft which is flying directly towards you, it 
 could well fall down directly on your head... So physics are really neat!
  
  A flaw on the other hand is the fact that you'll encounter 4 (!) different types of enemies during 
 the first half of the game. Wow, don't spoil us, Bungie! In addition, these foes behave really 
 intelligent, but look everything but spectacular. But hey, later in the game their numbers add 
 up to an amazing 10 DIFFERENT TYPES. Wow! Doom had about 25, and that was 10 years ago... Also, 
 those strange zombies you'll almost exclusively come across in the later game look horrible ( I 
 mean not frightening, I mean just bad!) , and are as stupid as can be. Hello, I'm playing Halo, 
 not Serious Sam!
  And the story is ok, but not really worth talking about ( the usual "aliens pose a threat to the 
 whole universe"-plot)
  
  OK, but let's look at the game itself:
  
  Mainly, HALO consists of two different parts: Indoor-levels and outdoor-levels. And, you can guess 
 it: the quality is VERY different!
  The Outdoor levels are (despite the enemy-flaws stated above) just great! Graphics are really neat 
 (you can't compare them to Splinter Cell or Max Payne 2, though!) , you get to use all those cool 
 vehicles, which are by far the best part of Halo (you can use a SUV, a tank, a glider and an arcraft) , 
 these scenes are challenging and offer a wide range of diiferent tactics to use: Blazing machinegun, 
 snipering, using the SUV to just drive over your foes, use the versatile but relatively vulnerable 
 Glider, and so on. So far, HALO is great!
  
  But there are also the indoor levels, which are all built after the same pattern: Enter a room, 
 kill a gruop of enemies, enter a second room, which looks exactly the same, kill a group of enemies, 
 which is exactly the same, enter a third room, which is exactly the same... Get the deal? Think 
 of Wolfenstein 3D (from 1990!) , and you get a good idea of how repetitive it gets there! And, by 
 the way: graphics are definitely below average in those indoor levels! So, basically you just try 
 to endure those levels in order to reach the next outdoor part.
  
  So far so good, if the relation indoor-outdoor had been like 20-80, I wouldn't really have complained. 
 But guess what? I'd say it's 70-30 for the INDOOR-PART!!!
  
  Hello, don't they have any playtesters? Why did nobody tell them that they are utterly spoinling 
 a possibly great game by focussing on those stupid, repetitive and ugly indoor-parts? Why did nobody 
 tell them that the vehicles are the best part of the game and it just doesn't make sense to be 
 able to use them for just like 10 percent of the game?? Why can I only use the funny tank ONCE 
 FOR 5 MINUTES? Why did nobody tell them, that Halo COULD easily be great, but is just average?
 
  Sorry, Bungie, but I just don't get it...
  
  Gameplay:
  Read about the flaws and other stuff above, but some general things: Basically Halo is a normal 
 shooter, with the usual (well-working) wasd-controls. Occasionally, you're accompanied by a whole 
 bunch of marines, but don't worry, it's certainly an ego-shooter, no tactical shooter! Driving 
 the vehicles is a bit unusual at first (ever driven a SUV by mouse??) , but ends up working really 
 well! That's it, everything said!
  
  Graphics:
  See above: Nice outdoor graphics, below-standard indoor graphics, nice covenant enemies, awful 
 zombies, low variety. Animations are (except for the zombies!) good to very good. And the warthog-SUV 
 looks great!
  
  Sound:
  Not to bad, but nothing spectacular 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbismonster
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Halo for pc is a great great game. It's graphics are dated, and sometimes kind of buggy and laggy, 
 but they're still good. The lag can be bad, but it can also be virtually non-existant, especially 
 on bungie servers. The gameplay is great, and the controls have been transffered farily well from 
 xbox to pc, although it doesnt feel quite as accurate and easy. The campaign is just as much fun, 
 although there is unfortunately no coop. Overall the game just works great, and its an instant 
 classic, with the new 16 player multiplayer just adding so much more. There are also some new weapons 
 and a new rocket truck, although they dont make much of a difference, they're a niec addition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightFalcon662
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a quite a PC game and lived up to its standards several years ago. The game had groundbreaking 
 graphics and audio to boot when it was released. Halo sets you in a storyline of a struggle between 
 an alien race.
  
  
  
  The gameplay in Halo is simply magnificent. Your weaponry can range from assault rifles, to snipers, 
 and to covenant weapons. All of these weapons have been carefully balanced and each has a use. 
 The game also frequently forces you to use vehicles. Vehicles can range from a ground 4x4 the Warthog, 
 to a one-man airborne vehicle called the Banshee. Multiplayer can also be quite fun and one can 
 place endless hours in it. Though it can be laggy and occasionally frustrating, there is a lot 
 of fun to playing it, especially with friends.
  
  Though the graphics now are slightly outdated as we see it, they were simply groundbreaking at 
 the time. The outdoor maps had a lot of atmosphere and made it very pleasurably for the player 
 to play it. Some particle effects can be seen and also some light specular lighting. At the time 
 if one had a top-of-the-line video card and had a monitor that supported 1600 x 1200 resolution, 
 graphics were simply jaw-dropping.
  
  The sound in Halo also well deserves some recognition. EAX adds a lot of atmosphere. You can hear 
 the chirping of birds and calls of other animals in the background to the intense gunfire and vehicle 
 commotion. Occasionally depending on where you hear gunfire and vehicles in the map can give away 
 the position of the enemy.
  
  Halo is also a game that you can put many hours in it, mainly because of the multiplayer. Multiplayer 
 has been well-done and balanced to fair play so both newcomers and veterans can enjoy the game. 
 Though when comparing this game to a game that is a pain in the neck for newbies like Counter-Strike, 
 Halo will seem like a walk in the park.
  
  Game highly recommended if youre willing to go back in time for a couple of years for graphics. 
 9.5 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyFly
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing i played it day in and day out on the Internet and with friends we loved the 
 game because it has everything you want. Fun single player and there is not to much and not to 
 few maps, different types of difficulties that you will love. Multi player you can play 4 xbox's 
 (16 players) against one and 'nother, if you want to play against others just play on xbox live 
 and play against people from other countries. One of my friends hate future games that have aliens 
 and plasma guns and that kind of stuff but he loved halo. This game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfaction_fast
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  i never really understood the hole halo story, that jst might be cause i only finished it once 
 or twice... this is wat every game freak people wana have, (probly do but ay :P) the hole story 
 line is about your ship is under attack and you are launched out in escape pod and crach landed 
 on the halo ring, then you gota defend your self against many waves of emenys and flying ship thins 
 (cant memba da names :P) as you progress through the game the story line and missions wiff it change, 
 a new enemy emerges, and you have to defend your self to your mother ship, set it to blow up and 
 hopefully make it off the halo ring, all intense as a 1st person shooter game should be :) .... and 
 i have to give the multiplayer a mention, its great multi play, ranging from capture the flag round, 
 death match and team death match, plus more... theres alot of levels set out in multi player, half 
 containing vehicles that you can use to take down your enemys :P
  have fun :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Doom has been the main First Person Shooter, until the Master Chief came along and showed us that 
 there was more to the genre then just plain shooting. Combining innovative features such as a personal 
 recharging shield, powerful melee system, the limited use of weapons and the great importance of 
 explosives, Halo: Combat Evolved has shown us that the FPS genre is still alive and kicking! The 
 story goes for that epic science fiction feel, with you in the shoes of the green armored, man 
 of few words Master Chief. Humanity is embroiled with a war with the fanatical alien conglomerate 
 known as the Covenant and while escaping from them on the ship, the Pillar of Autumn, you discover 
 an ancient ring world that may just turn the tide of the war or doom Humanity's existence. You'll 
 face many enemies and the AI (at the time) will intelligently dodge your gunfire and use grenades 
 smartly, especially during the endgame levels. Some of them even have recharging shields of their 
 own and basically you'll be fighting a group of combat equals who can easily plow right through 
 you! What made Halo so innovative was the all-important recharging shield (a precursor to the recharging 
 health common in all shooters today) and this allows the smart player to survive battles even though 
 they made only have ONE bar of health. The limited use of only TWO weapons forces you to choose 
 what to carry and assess the situation. Typically, you'll need a versatile, all around weapon like 
 the Battle Rifle and a weapon for special purposes, be it the shotgun, rocket launcher or a myriad 
 of others, including some unique alien weapons. You'll also get to pilot many human and alien vehicles 
 and each are easily controlled with the mouse and keyboard, allowing a third person view of the 
 action. The graphics have aged pretty well despite being 2 years old due to high resolutions. The 
 sound is the best as the soundtrack is very cinematic and gives you.... inspiration for lack of 
 a better term. There's also a multiplayer portion to the game so this will definitely be a draw 
 to PC Gamers since the Xbox version lacked any multiplayer feature (it had co-op, which is missing 
 here) . Two years is a long wait but for those who haven't played Halo, then you definitely need 
 to pick it up. It's only $19.99 nowadays and you get to play as one of the most iconic characters 
 in video game history.
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  So, its come to this a rainy Saturday where I suddenly decide to wear off my reviewing slump 
 and come back with a bang. And the game Ive decided to review, is, obviously, the PC version of 
 Halo, which you probably already know, unless you are an imbecile, and are mindlessly clicking 
 links to player reviews since youve got nothing else better to do on a rainy Saturday. 
  
  So, then. The PC version of Halo is, essentially, a straight port from the Xbox, with a few microscopic 
 features added here and there; maybe a few multiplayer tweaks and maps, the odd graphical enhancement, 
 but these changes are barely noticeable. For the most part, youll be reliving the exact same spectacular 
 game that saved the Xboxs launch, undertaking the role of Master Chief and carving his quest through 
 an inhuman amount of Covenant and piloting many vehicles to boot. Nice. 
  
  Before I launch into these comfortably familiar details, let me just rule out that the PC version 
 of Halo is nowhere near the stellar experience that you should have already enjoyed on the Xbox. 
 If you havent already played through Halo at least once, then I would strongly advise picking 
 up the Xbox version. 
  
  Why? Because Halo feels so much more natural on the Xbox. Halo is such a unique and satisfying 
 experience on Microsofts majestic cuboid of a console, and it just feels alien to the format of 
 keyboard-and-mouse control. The core Gameplay is still here and as good as ever, but Halo is simply 
 brilliant when controlling with two thumbsticks rather than the freeform and loose control of a 
 mouse.
  
  And even the Xbox version had flaws. The repetition in the environments is still present, and the 
 recycling architecture, and more than once youll find yourself getting lost. The enemy AI is usually 
 astonishing, but theres an odd moment here and there where they will hold up, suddenly station 
 themselves in the middle of an open range, or throw a grenade at a wall, causing it to ricochet 
 off and glue to themselves. 
  
  But, yet, if you dont have an Xbox, then this version of Halo will give you plenty of opportunities 
 to discover what a magical series this is.
  
  Combat still feels balanced and precise on the PC, and still retains the epic feel of the Xbox 
 version. A sense of growing urgency; a spine-tingling feeling of emergency. In some of the battles 
 your mind will be ablaze with awe, knowing that is the line between a videogame and an experience. 
 There will be fire coming from all directions, vehicles flying all over the place, explosions sending 
 Covenant soaring into the sky with all the elegance of an albatross. 
  
  Master Chief is a truly wonderful character to control. Whereas in some FPS games, your character 
 seems to run at impossible speeds and seems to have more agility than your average peregrine falcon, 
 Master Chief feels different. He feels strong, durable, and heavy, and moves with an almost believable 
 weight. 
  
  And then there are his weapons. In the midst of it all Master Chief is a fearsome fighter, with 
 weapons from the human race and the Covenant race to use. The assault rifle is possibly the greatest 
 machine gun ever seen in a videogame, and pummelling Grunts into a pulp with a continuous blast 
 of bullets is brilliantly satisfying. The pistol is a potent gun also, seeing as this game is set 
 before the pistol got malformed in the transition to Halo 2, and the zoom scope is a beautiful 
 inclusion. The alien weapons, such as the Plasma Rifle and the Needler, are also great weapons 
 to, well, kill things with. I think Ive gone far enough to say that all of Halos weapons are 
 equally deadly and, more importantly, equally satisfying to use. 
  
  Halo also makes good use of vehicles. The vehicles included in the game are possibly the best vehicles 
 ever to be featured in a FPS, and offer huge amounts of fun from a different perspective. It makes 
 a nice change to stop looking down the barrel of a gun and get behind the wheel of a Warthog jeep 
 or to pilot a Covenant Banshee, a versatile aerial vehicle. These vehicles come into their own 
 in the fully-blown battles smattered throughout the game, and they implement an entirely new experience 
 into an already explosive skirmish.
  
  And then there are the actual enemies that youre fighting against. The enemy AI in Halo is simply 
 top-notch from beginning to end. Whichever race of Covenant youre firing at; they all behave in 
 the same intelligent way and create a feeling youre fighting against a formidable enemy. Its 
 the sense of euphoria you receive when you outsmart these seemingly clever beings that give Halo 
 some of its best moments; the brilliant punch-thin-air feelings. (By the way, punching the air 
 is not strictly advisable, just in case you hit your knuckles on a lamp or your computer monitor)
 
  
  But then theres the visual appeal also. Halo: Combat Evolved does not look much more enhanced 
 when compared to the Xbox version. When you have got the game running at a suitable frame rate 
 and resolution, its an undeniably nice-looking game, from the environments to the explosions, 
 but its lacking the jaw-dropping wizardry that only a few games manage to pull off. 
  
  First off, the character models are brilliant. Master Chief, Cortana, Captain Keyes  they look 
 virtually identical to their Xbox cousins, only with added detail and panache. Secondly, the environments; 
 they are still very impressive, even when they are endlessly repeating themselves. Yet the amazing 
 levels of detail arent the real graphical element that make you drop your jaw, its the sense 
 of scale that Halo retains. The battles are absolutely humongous, but while theres an odd glitch 
 in the draw distances, they are undoubtedly gigantic and will bring a grin to your face. Wowza.
 
  
  Moving on, then  the sound quality in Halo is astonishing. Every single aspect of the audio is 
 biblical  the voiceovers, the explosions, the gunfire, the music; absolutely everything is executed 
 professionally. Painstaking work has gone into this element of the experience and it really shows, 
 especially if you are playing through a surround sound system. This is simply a jaw-dropping aural 
 showing.
  
  All in all, Halo is a solid, believable FPS that happens to be very well accomplished in all departments, 
 and its accompanied with a fascinating storyline dripping with science-fiction appeal. From the 
 Gameplay to the graphics to the audio, Halo is a rare breed of game that will impress on all fronts, 
 even for those who played the slightly superior Xbox version. Worth a go for newcomers or the most 
 avid of Halo fans, the PC version of Bungies godly franchise manages to retain most of its lustre 
 in the transition from the Xbox. 
  
  Have a nice day. 
  
  By StevenScott14, 14 May 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamonkey872
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best multiplayer ever period. The game play is just amazing it the whole thing 
 was planned out awesome. The storyline makes you to keep on wondering. The graphics are as good 
 as anything and this game is number one for Microsoft. Anyone who loves first person shooter games 
 should pick this up and have a blast with the online gaming it has waiting for you. The sound was 
 pretty goood yet the weapons were genius and unique. All the plasma guns you can get and the plasma 
 grenades are just awesome. This game is number one on my shelf for Microsoft games. The games storyline 
 aslo made a drag it got pretty long the campaign but what can I say other then that it was a kick-@$$ 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frother
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 11, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in Halo are pretty good for their time. Master
  Chief looks modern enough - he's in armor so there's really no chance
  to look bad - and the 
 people look all right, although Captain Keyes
  has a 3-polygon face and a box torso. The marines are very
  well-animated and their models are 
 quite detailed. The weapons all
  look great, except for the Fuel Rod Gun which is a monster (though you
  never use it in singleplayer 
 mode) . There are a lot of nice little
  effects like sand kicked up by tires and the particle effects are
  particularly (haha) well done, 
 but decals are done badly and
  unconvincingly, and atmospheric effects like semi-persistent smoke
  from the rocket launcher 
 or grenades are bizzarely absent - when dirt
  is thrown 20 feet into the air by a frag grenade it just fades away
  instead of falling to the 
 ground. This isn't a feature I'd expect from
  a game of Halo's generation, but it's certainly one I'd expect from a
  modern game and with all 
 of Halo's modern graphics, little things like
  that stand out. But in any case, Halo's graphics are certainly
  satisfactory (if your computer 
 can handle it; the port was done very
  badly) and it's so well animated that the graphics can look really
  cool. Sniper rifle shots 
 leave long smoke tracers that can stay
  hovering in the air for more than a second, which looks really cool.
  Warthog animation is done 
 perfectly; when driving around your
  passengers will bounce around and lean in all the right directions,
  and you can see the independant 
 suspension on the bottom react to the
  road surface. The places where Halo's graphics really shine are plain
  concrete areas and surreal 
 alien environments. Multiplayer levels like
  Hang 'Em High are simple concrete areas that look great; the concrete
  is shaded with detail 
 and Bungie really did a good job transforming a
  gray screen into a work of art. Concrete areas like the light bridge
  in the level "Halo" are 
 dark and complex and MASSIVE, like most of
  Halo's environments. The sheer scale of the areas suggests
  technological advancement. Areas 
 like Sidewinder are surreal
  enviornents that seem so out of place in typical shooters. A level at
  the beginning of the game 
 puts you on a high mesa at night, and the
  sky is peppered with thousands of bright stars, and the luminous arch
  of Halo rises from the 
 horizon.
  
  Sound: The music is bad (thankfully it's rarely playing) , but the weapons all make convincing sounds. 
 Often you'll experience periods of absolute silence (especially in multiplayer) and sudden sounds 
 cutting in sound rather artificial.
  
  Physics: The physics are done OK.. they're not good at all - they use
  an inverse kinematics 
 post-processing physics engine, which means that
  if you hit something with a Warthog, the game calculates (badly) where
  it should end up and 
 constructs an animation of how it should get
  there. This is a primitive technology, but I'm sure it was
  revolutionary at the time. Grenade 
 physics are good, vehicle physics
  are outrageous (and take a lot of time getting used to) . The sniper
  rifle shots are done pretty 
 well - they're calculated movement vectors
  instead of the typical rayscans. This means that you have to lead your
  shot depending on how 
 fast the target is moving and how far away it
  is. The death animation for the sniper rifle is pathetic (they just
  spin around and fall to 
 the ground) compared to weapons like
  Painkiller's stakegun or Half Life 2's crossbow.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay in Halo is very fun, especially on the higher
  difficulty settings. The story 
 just serves as a device to get you to
  varied environments and to pit you in an offensive, instead of sitting
  at home base defending 
 it. Battles are smooth and fast, although more
  variety in weapons and enemies would be appreciated. And about a
  fourth of the game is extremely 
 repetitive - either playing the same
  area over and over (Library) or playing though the whole level over
  and over (Two Betrayals) . 
 But for the most part its a good ride, and
  the multiplay is phenomanal. The gameplay is very unique.. there are strangely few varieties of 
 enemies, few weapons (you can only carry 2 at once) , but there are several vehicles, fairly varied 
 environments, and very dynamic combat. The fun from the combat basically comes from getting the 
 skill to unconsciously dodge enemy fire while taking out the right targets with a steady hand and 
 experienced tactics. Often you'll need to flush out targets with a grenade, flank Jackals, dodge 
 melee attacks. This game really has potential for mastery; you just get better and better as you 
 play, and the game can handle your skill no matter how good you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  First time halo came out, I heard about all the hype and how they sold so quickly. Than my friends 
 told me how it was the best game ever and blah blah blah.
  So when the PC verison came out, I ended up getting it from a friend and I played it. I was surprised 
 at how fun it actually is and the only thing I could think of that was good about it was the online, 
 weapons, and the missions were pretty cool.
  I Just had a problem with the short campaign as i'm sure it was one of the biggest complaints coming 
 from anyone. I felt like it relied too much on online play and not enough on offline playability 
 and that's where it missed the big points with me.
  I usually hit online after i've had fun unlocking stuff or beating all these difficulties, etc 
 but it lacked the necessary offline component in my opinion.
  Overall, it's an awesome FPS that anyone can enjoy and it's definitely one of the best games to 
 play with your friends or online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Here's a game you will spend playing hours on multiplayer. The simplicity of the game makes it 
 easy to understand and quick to get the hang of. It is a nice game to add to your collection, but 
 you may find yourself straying from the single player campaign mode to indulge yourself in the 
 multiplayer experience.
  The campaign mode has a very linear story line, and the missions range from fending off enemies 
 from hilltops to fending off enemies in tunnels. Occasionally they might throw in a fight-your-way-through 
 level just to make it interesting. The voice acting isn't bad compared to typical, bad sci-fi movies. 
 The music provides counter effect to the game, and it really adds to the whole experience. The 
 graphics are undeniably smooth, but offer little detail.
  The levels in the campaign mode are very linear like the story line, consisting of a set path and 
 an occasional room to run around in. The enemies keep flowing out at you in a barrage of madness 
 that gets old pretty quickly, but the multiplayer makes up for all of this.
  Though multiplayer is limited in the types of games you can play, it provides hours of fun. The 
 levels are well thought out and provide many different strategies to play. The vary in size from 
 vast, to absolutely puny. The games can be a bit laggy sometimes, but you can always tell before 
 entering which games will lag by the ping marker on the far right of the multiplayer screen.
  Despite the lacking campaign mode, this game is worth your money. It's smooth gameplay and usage 
 of weapons and vehicles provide an experience worth your while. After all, we all need games specifically 
 for multiplayer, and this is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementfx
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  I love this game, not just the campaigne, but the online play is awesome. One of the things that 
 Microsoft did right was to make it open for editing. Ever played a mod map? They let you do anything. 
 From walking on walls to jumping 3000 feet in the air and not diing. You can also edit the weapons 
 to shoot tank shells and make the rockets homing. But the best part about the online play is that 
 it's simple, shoot, die, point. Unlike some of the newer games coming out that require you to have 
 graduated from high school (not saying much) . It's also incredibly cheap now, I htink you can get 
 it for around 14$ at walmart. You also don't have to pay to play on the internet! So for a good 
 game with relatively good graphics, and at a good price I say everyone should get out and buy it 
 now, if they don't already have it of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CounterShock
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Halo CE is the greatest game ever made. I could sit here all day and not think of a single thing 
 wrong with it. The story is amazing, the gameplay is flawless and the sound and graphics are perfect. 
 If you don't have a xbox, like me, you must get this. Also the online play is free!
  
  The game isn't short eather. It can take around 10-20 hours to beat, and after you beat it you'll 
 be playing twice as more time online.
  
  The story mode has 10 levels and each one can take up to 1 to 2 hours to complete.
  
  Gameplay: 
 10/10
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Replay value: 10/10
  
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin2d0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Ok, simply one of the best games for Xbox has come to PC. What to do? Play the Xbox version again? 
 Or buy the game? In this review u'll get the answer.
  
  Campaign: This campaign might be a few years old, but in my opinion it's still the best campaign 
 in a shooter ever, together with Far Cry then. Why do I like it? Because: a) the campaign got a 
 good difficulty b) both monsters and 'friends' are very smart c) the weapons; maybe they are a 
 bit standard, but it's really funny to stick a grunt (pathetic easy alien) and to see him running 
 away in panic! Although I think there is something even better in Halo, and that is:
  
  Multiplayer: W-O-W! If you ignore the pretty high ping of this game, and practice much, you can 
 own the whole beeping world! You can do like HEADSHOT! HEADSHOT! with the ownage weapons: pistol 
 and snipers. You need a lot of practice to get to this though, and need much friend willing to 
 play against you. But it's really fun to own the whole multiplayer because clans are sooooo important. 
 That's why I wanna thank www. klanwars. com , because they made some sort of Halo league, and that 
 makes Halo cool. The only thing what's bad about Halo is the massive amount of hacks. This can 
 be funny though if u own like mad and everyone calls u hacker. So, in a few simple words: HALO 
 MULTIPLAYER ROCKS!
  
  Conclusion: Get this game if you like a shooter which has both a good campaign and multiplayer! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Halo : Combat Evolved is an amazing shooter game. Something you just can't miss out on. If you 
 are a fan of shooter games. The entire Halo series, Combat Evolved especially really is great because 
 the game play and sound is superb! Also the storyline, weapons and characters are impressive.
 
  
  Altogether the mechanics of Combat Evolved is superb apart from a few rough edges around the graphics. 
 The value is great because of multi player and the rich storyline so this is a great game which 
 is a must-buy for shooter games.
  
  What: Halo is a shooter game about a man dressed in armour called Master Chief who is sent to single-handedly 
 save the Human Empire from the threat of dangerous aliens called the Convenent but things don't 
 go to plan and a greater evil is discovered.
  
  My Opinion: You must buy Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannuck38
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Halo was the best launch title for developers Microsoft when launching the Xbox. Although many 
 other first person shooters such as Call of Duty 2 and the Half Life series set a high bar that 
 many thought couldn't be broken, Halo surpassed everyones expectations in many areas. 
  
  First the Graphics were simply stunning for both the PC version and the Xbox. Although it probably 
 wasn't as good as DOOM 3, it was still an enormous achievement by Gearbox and Bungie.
  
  The Gameplay was also spectacular considering many first person shooter games "flopped" in their 
 first year because of their gameplay.
  
  The story was also VERY good and even after finishing the game, people just started all over again 
 just to see the cut scenes one more time. And to assist the story was great sound. Games like DOOM, 
 in my opinion had the worst possible sound and music, but Halo was surprisingly good.
  
  This game is a REAL classic and it should have been on the Hall of Games a week after it's launch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randy840000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I think that Microsoft did a fabulous job transferring this game from xbox to the computer because 
 the game is just as fun as on xbox and there is not much of a difference to the game on xbox. Great 
 storyline, as far as why they are killing the Covenant and the flood and those sort of things. 
 Overall, this game is the best first-person shooter that I can think of for any system because 
 of the graphics, and of how many different things you can do. It's such a good game even though 
 it's not a very realistic game but that's okay just try the game out and you will understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  halo for pc is a decent fps which is worth trying
  halo pc is exactly the same as the xbox version except for some changes in there being 2 new guns 
 and some new maps among other things.
  
  the gameplay is as good as always and there is much fun to be had in single and multi player. 
 
  
  The graphics are ok although the coding on the game has caused several issues with fps on comps 
 and laggin even when u have got a very good comp. These issues are bit of a shame and ruin the 
 game in some aspects most noticeable online.
  
  halo pc is a decent game that shamfully has some code issues that ruin it in online and so forth 
 but nonetheless is a great game for the pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOFFERN342
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing, it has everything. The graphics and the gameplay. I am going to play 
 this game until the world go under! When i first started to play the game I was shocked. WoW this 
 is just unbelievable i thought. When i first got the hang on I didnt want to stop play it. My dad 
 actually had to pull out the power before i reacted and came up to eat dinner! When I was finished 
 eating dinner I ran down to play some more. And since then I have been playing it all the way! 
 But i must say that its even better on the xbox... beacuse there you can play it with a friend 
 on co-op thats just lovely! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undertaker335
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Okay this is one of the best First Person Shooters EVER.
  Masive equipment of weapons (Pistol, Machine Gun, Alien Plasma Guns etc.)
  Masive alien armies (from 
 the mini-aliens to the really big and nasty ones)
  Graphics are completely cool, cool, cool, cool they look like real everyone that likes HALO would 
 agree with me.
  The sound well yeah it rocks i especialy love the soundtrack at the main menu.
  Gameplay when 
 you played HALO you won`t forget it your whole life.
  You can Drive Vehicles i like that tough.
  The people (i don`t want to hurt anybody) that don`t 
 like HALO are dumb and fools.
  WELL I SAID IT BUT HALO IS ONE OF THE BEST FIRST PERSON SHOOTERS EVER!!
  And the BEST on this 
 game is the Master Chief.
  He is the coolest character ever.
  I mean he has a green suit and cool sun glasses too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Halo is a great game, with great emotions and a good balance of difficulty.
  
  Today there are many FPS, and day after day new games came to us, there for its so difficult to 
 stand out. The graphics of most of games are every time more and more incredible, but the programers 
 some times made beautiful games but bored and repetitive. Halo offer to us new emotions that many 
 FPS have lost.
  
  The graphics of this game are good, but you will need a super computer t play the game in max video 
 definition and quality. There are some environments as jungle, facilities, snow, and this helps 
 to don't fall down in monotony. There are many kins of enemies, but we missed the "bosses" at the 
 end of every chapter. Here in Halo the final of a chapters have many many enemies, and that is 
 always exiting, but it could be better one or two bosses in every chapter.
  
  The FX are regular, just enough to enjoy the game but nothing amassing. The music of the game is 
 disappointing; very bored to listen the same music in all the game with a few little variations.
 
  
  The vehicles in the game helps very much in the game, and adds a new face to the playmode. The 
 difficulty of the game is very good, but almost all the enemies has just a little intelligence 
 that we would decode in a few minutes. In the middle of the history you will be capable of kill 
 any enemy that you find, just be patience and find the perfect place to attack them.
  
  The best: some parts where you really feels the adrenaline, the vehicles, a good final and the 
 history.
  
  The worst: some parts of the history are so repetitive, few kind of guns, and there aren't bosses 
 .
  
  But still this game is a good one, and you will play it until the end, with long hours of entertainment. 
 The save mode, and absence of ammo will add the perfect difficulty to enjoy the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kasrkin_BA
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  Straight away the game smells like a console port. There has been little to no effort made to hide 
 the fact at all. And seeing as though Halo was, at first, a PC only title its hard to remove 
 the knife in the back at this point.
  
  Im not going to lie to you, a lot about this game is wrong. There are so many niggles you 
 just want to dive in head first. So I will.
  
  Jumping: Wrong. You jump up into the air and then you seem to float down in twice the amount of 
 time it took you to get up.
  
  Pistol: Wrong. How come you can zoom in with the handgun but not the assault rifle? Theres 
 no scope on the sidearm so it must be done using the helmet, surely.
  
  Assault rifle: Wrong. Aside from the lack of zoom from the magical helmet, the gun is woefully 
 inaccurate. Things are supposed to improve as time goes on, not get worse. Todays assault 
 rifles are fairly accurate, especially on single shot. But you fire a single shot on the rifle 
 in Halo and theres no telling where the bullet will go. Its the future equivalent 
 of the AK47. And theres no grunt behind the gun. It doesnt feel like youre 
 actually shooting it.
  
  Bullets: Wrong. How can mankind even think to defeat the Covenant with bullets that go that slow? 
 Its like shooting those foam disk guns hoping to win the war. Bullets going at that speed 
 would harmless bounce off any metal regardless of ballistic protection.
  
  The game, while fun, can be extremely repetitive. It really is as if the map makers gave up about 
 half way in and just made a bunch of uninspired levels for us to wage war on.
  
  Unless youve been absorbed into the hype around the game, theres not really much 
 to appreciate in this game at all. Anything done in this game has been done a million times over 
 in the PC FPS market.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  While revolutionary on the Xbox, theyre pretty tame by PC standards. You have to remember 
 that the Xbox was outdated by the PC as soon as it was released and that gap only widened as time 
 went on. So, it wasnt a surprise when Halo turned up on your door looking like it just ate 
 road kill for breakfast.
  
  The game wasnt ugly, far from it. It just wasnt on the same level as other shooters 
 that were released at the same time.
  
  And as I said before, the levels were extremely tame. The bland and repetitive textures made sure 
 of that. 
  
  
  Sound
  
  While not bad, the sounds of the game were far from blowing anyones socks off. The weapon 
 sounds are pretty lax and unconvincing but the vehicles sounds were pretty impressive.
  
  The voice acting was pretty good too. Unlike most console games, it didnt make me want to 
 shove sharp things into my ears to make it stop. The little Covenant grunts were most amusing as 
 well with their lack of bravery.
  
  The music is where the game stands out though. I cannot fault the soundtrack at all. Its 
 stunning. 
  
  Value
  
  Seeing as though it was nearly 2 years old when it was released, it was not worth the street price 
 that was asked. Multiplayer is lacking in several areas but still fun if you play with some friends.
 
  
  Unless you have good reason to play it, avoid this game like it was your moustached grandmother 
 who simply must plant a sloppy wet one onto your cheeks. Youll play this once and then itll 
 gather dust on the shelf unless you want to impress all of your friends by completing it on legendary. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Halo on the xbox was a good game. its also a good game on the pc, but not he same.
  Bad news first the AI is still stupid. Grapics arent midblowing. so what if thay added new maps 
 and 2 new guns for multiplayer. still is the same, so if you played it on the xbox there is no 
 need to play it on the pc. now one porblem thay didnt fix is the single player lenght. I think 
 its short. everything else is great see my review of the xbox version for more info of this game.
 
  
  ps. plz remove the repetive flood levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin_
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played. I give it a 10 in everything. The campaign is fun, online 
 is fun, it is all fun. I recommend this game to anyone who like fps. This game is for all ages 
 by the way it would not have been rated m it is not that bad except for all the swearing in the 
 campain. So if you like games were you kill evil alien creatures, kill the flood and destroy planets 
 this is the game for you. And to top it all of it is only $20 (which is a incrdable price for a 
 game this good) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  Even now 3 years after its PC release and 5 years after its first release on Xbox, this game is 
 a superb online multiplayer game and its Single Player Story is one of the deepest most involving 
 around. 
  
  The story is backed up by a set of books published at the time of Halo being released for Xbox, 
 which give a spectacular insight into how well the story is scripted, written by some of the best 
 sci-fi authors of today! 
  
  The game itself offers a unique online multiplayer experience, with fast paced and fluid action, 
 using any tactic method or sniping ploy you desire, this game has all the opportunities there for 
 FPS lovers :)
  
  The Graphics and Sound in my view are still on par with Modern releases even now, with superb lighting, 
 texturing and shadowing, with crisp and accurate sound using EAX Hardware support. Models are beginning 
 to show their age, looking slightly blocky compared to brand new games.
  
  This is the classic FPS game of this decade, a true classic. A fantastic effort from Microsoft 
 and Bungie!
  
  Now Halo2 is our for xbox, and soon to be out for PC, Halo may fall back into its vintage days. 
 However, seeing that at any one time 2000 ppl can be on Halo Internet Servers, not to mention on 
 xbox live, this game isn't fading into obscurity any time soon.
  
  Looking forward to Halo2 for PC now ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwngasm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game was a phenomenon and one of the best selling games of all time. It took a long time to 
 get released for PC, but for most of us it was worth the wait! The SP is still good, but unchanged. 
 The multiplayer though is way better than on X-Box, offering more weapons and vehicles and allowing 
 more players to play at a time. The only cons of this game is the sometimes laggy single player 
 and some glitches. If you want to enjoy the full experience of this game, make sure your PC is 
 top of the line! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suspeko0o
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  im not an xbox owner and havent played a game on my pc in a while, but halo is definitly a must 
 have. great single player plot and gaming will keep you occupied for hours. the multiplayer is 
 great as well . it seems like playing the multiplayer made me better on other fps games. the only 
 gripe in multiplayer is that most of the weapons realy arent that effective against other players 
 such as the machin gun some of the laser weapons and the shotgun. maybe i just cant aim or something. 
 ifind myself just using the handgun , rocket launchers, the needler, grenades, sniper riffle, and 
 vehicle weapons. the levels are large and expansive youll need all the space to take cover and 
 dodge. i dont have a powerfull pc like most of you other computer geeks but it worked pretty well 
 on my laptop. i recommend this for anyone who is an action junky and doesnt really want to deal 
 with alot of lengthy bs that alot of games seem to have these days. see you online. (thru my sniper 
 scope) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Halo 1 is one of the best shooters of time. the idea to bring it over to the pc was a good idea 
 but it was sadly not done really good. (GAMEPLAY) The campain was the same but instead of controler 
 u use a keyboard and mouse. i perfer a keyboard and mouse over a controller for fps but halo does 
 not go good with it. the multiplayer is just bad dialup people can play online so it lags everything 
 up like crazy. its soo bad you can barly play. (graphics) the enviroments are the same or better 
 depending on you pc. (sound) the sound is the same really same music same gun noises. (value) even 
 though its 20$ dont waste the money on it. the fact is halo is an awsome game but it does not make 
 a good PC import trust me there are alot better pc shooters than halo pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyboy04343
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Rarely have I been so disappointed by a game! Why? Because HALO is simply bad? No, definitely not, 
 but I've never seen a game with so many possiblities making so few use of them.
  
  But let's have a closer look at Halo.
  
  First, let's look at a few general things: HALO has 
 a very nice physics engine, one of the best aspects of the game. Throwing grenades will make your 
 foes, as well as stuff like guns etc., soar up into the air, and everything physically correct. 
 Also, you shouldn's try to shoot down an enemy aircraft which is flying directly towards you, it 
 could well fall down directly on your head... So physics are really neat!
  
  A flaw on the other hand is the fact that you'll encounter 4 (!) different types of enemies during 
 the first half of the game. Wow, don't spoil us, Bungie! In addition, these foes behave really 
 intelligent, but look everything but spectacular. But hey, later in the game their numbers add 
 up to an amazing 10 DIFFERENT TYPES. Wow! Doom had about 25, and that was 10 years ago... Also, 
 those strange zombies you'll almost exclusively come across in the later game look horrible ( I 
 mean not frightening, I mean just bad!) , and are as stupid as can be. Hello, I'm playing Halo, 
 not Serious Sam!
  And the story is ok, but not really worth talking about ( the usual "aliens pose a threat to the 
 whole universe"-plot)
  
  OK, but let's look at the game itself:
  
  Mainly, HALO consists of two different parts: Indoor-levels and outdoor-levels. And, you can guess 
 it: the quality is VERY different!
  The Outdoor levels are (despite the enemy-flaws stated above) just great! Graphics are really neat 
 (you can't compare them to Splinter Cell or Max Payne 2, though!) , you get to use all those cool 
 vehicles, which are by far the best part of Halo (you can use a SUV, a tank, a glider and an arcraft) , 
 these scenes are challenging and offer a wide range of diiferent tactics to use: Blazing machinegun, 
 snipering, using the SUV to just drive over your foes, use the versatile but relatively vulnerable 
 Glider, and so on. So far, HALO is great!
  
  But there are also the indoor levels, which are all built after the same pattern: Enter a room, 
 kill a gruop of enemies, enter a second room, which looks exactly the same, kill a group of enemies, 
 which is exactly the same, enter a third room, which is exactly the same... Get the deal? Think 
 of Wolfenstein 3D (from 1990!) , and you get a good idea of how repetitive it gets there! And, by 
 the way: graphics are definitely below average in those indoor levels! So, basically you just try 
 to endure those levels in order to reach the next outdoor part.
  
  So far so good, if the relation indoor-outdoor had been like 20-80, I wouldn't really have complained. 
 But guess what? I'd say it's 70-30 for the INDOOR-PART!!!
  
  Hello, don't they have any playtesters? Why did nobody tell them that they are utterly spoinling 
 a possibly great game by focussing on those stupid, repetitive and ugly indoor-parts? Why did nobody 
 tell them that the vehicles are the best part of the game and it just doesn't make sense to be 
 able to use them for just like 10 percent of the game?? Why can I only use the funny tank ONCE 
 FOR 5 MINUTES? Why did nobody tell them, that Halo COULD easily be great, but is just average?
 
  Sorry, Bungie, but I just don't get it...
  
  Gameplay:
  Read about the flaws and other stuff above, but some general things: Basically Halo is a normal 
 shooter, with the usual (well-working) wasd-controls. Occasionally, you're accompanied by a whole 
 bunch of marines, but don't worry, it's certainly an ego-shooter, no tactical shooter! Driving 
 the vehicles is a bit unusual at first (ever driven a SUV by mouse??) , but ends up working really 
 well! That's it, everything said!
  
  Graphics:
  See above: Nice outdoor graphics, below-standard indoor graphics, nice covenant enemies, awful 
 zombies, low variety. Animations are (except for the zombies!) good to very good. And the warthog-SUV 
 looks great!
  
  Sound:
  Not to bad, but nothing spectacular 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vickfan44
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome online gamwplay i must have played it for 50 hours total online proably more 
 than that. But anyways the game has awesome graphics and sound. But the story is one of the best 
 around and even though i am not a big fan of XBOX i can see myse; f buying an XBOX just for this 
 game. The game is already ledgenary and this just adds onto it. There are lots of new choices of 
 vehicles like Banshees. You can even customize your character by color which is cool wish there 
 where more options like a mod or something you know. But overall this game is awesome so please 
 go out and get it if you have never played it before because you do not have a XBOX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyjoe213
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  As most people wouldn't know, Halo was originally supposed to be just on the PC but Microsoft bought 
 Bungie and they made the XBOX version first. About 2 years later or so, Halo made it to the PC. 
 
  Overall, the game hasn't changed very much. The campaign is exactly the same as it used to be. 
 The AI are smart and somewhat of a challenge. One of the games greatest features is the vechicles. 
 You can drive warthog jeeps with a gunner and a passenger each able to fire while you drive. There's 
 the scorpian tank and the ghost which is a fast one man hovercraft which shoots out plasma. 
  Weapons obviously play a big part in the game. You can use assult rifles, rocket launchers, plasma 
 rifles, plasma pistols, needlers (they shoot out plasma needles) , fuel rod guns (new to the PC 
 version) , and pistols which you should never doubt. You can also throw grenades with your perfect 
 baseball throwing left hand and bash someone with your gun while in melee range. 
  The controls work well on the keyboard. Driving with the mouse isn't too hard.
  New stuff includes 
 6 more maps, the fuel rod gun, flamethrower, banshee aircraft, and the rocket launcher warthog. 
 
  If you don't have an XBOX, I recommend that you get this game. If you do have an XBOX, get it for 
 PC anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T2DJake
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  What more is there to say about Halo: Combat Evolved it has a great story line and the Multiplayer 
 helps to balance it out to make it a well rounded game. The Multiplayer is a great way to make 
 new friends and to beat the crap out of other players who are talking crap about your mom. The 
 story line is long and kind of hard if youre playing on Legendary and learning the controls are 
 a breeze if youve ever played a First Person Shooter (FPS) . The only negative thing about the 
 Multiplayer on Halo is the people who cheat or modders but overall its a fun experience. The graphics 
 are fairly good if you have a nice computer to play Halo on; if you set the setting for the graphics 
 on high it will have blood, bullet shells, the weapons will look a lot better, and the terrain 
 will look real. Also I cant think of any other game like Halo I mean I know its just another 
 FPS but its just so solid and the sound isnt bad. Overall dont rent this game go out and buy 
 it because even if you beat the game theres still the Multiplayer part of the game and its always 
 changing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nielz_nl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Though Halo ain't a bad game , it ain't as good as some people claim it to be. The AI is smart 
 at times but at times it is also just plain stupid... And though the graphics look good the levels 
 are just repetitive. Yes the levels are huge but they look so... bland and there is just no variation 
 within them... The sound is on the other hand is just superb. Game should take you about 15 hours 
 to finish and though there is multi-player there is just much better mp games out there.
  
  It may be a classic on the consoles. It ain't on the pc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teodriel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Completely amazing game and everyone should try it, no matter if you love, or hate, first person 
 shooters. 
  
  I always hated FPS, I been saying for years by now that they are the most unintelligent, uncreative 
 and boring genre ever Well this until last year, when my brother introduces to me Halo.
  My first impression was pretty different to others FPS. I was amazed by the gameplay, and shocked 
 by the storys immersion. 
  From this day, I love FPS, and Ive played a lot of them. 
  Halo is impressive from start to finish. The main character, Master Chief, is a freaking genius 
 of soldier. And the voice is so well done, that it hear like a real battle hero.
  The most incredible thing about Halo is the just insanely incredibly good gameplay that break all 
 the rules. Forget the soldier that can carry 20 weapons in some place in the hyperspace. Forget 
 the stupid health packs and of course Forget the stupid soldiers that you can kill while youre 
 watching TV, or going to bathroom (even if sounds impossible)
  The AI is just so well done, that you can get the feel of been in the battlefield. And make every 
 battle different from another. The enemies even laugh at you when your killed... oh Meint Goth!!! 
 It motivates you to go in revenge and kick there ass 
  Now to the specific attributes
  
  The good: Almost everything, the scenarios details, great atmosphere, amazing gameplay, some 
 of the greatest AI ever (Im still playing over and over again) , great sound, and great weapons.
 
  
  The bad: Some characters and textures are pretty ugly.
  
  Resume: If you can buy this game, do it, the single player campaigning is so satisfactory, and 
 multiplayer so. You will not find best gameplay in FPS.
  It just make me love it...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good SCI-FI game. I think this game is going to go down in history. You are this 
 cyborg with a nasty attidude. The staryline to this game is absolutly amazing that combined with 
 the great alienistic covenant aliens make the campain really fun. The weapons in this game are 
 soooo awsome this is what makes the game sooo good. From the assualt rifle to the rocket launcher 
 to the covenant weapons you will be using a varitey of different weapons in a variety of different 
 situations. This game does have a few flaws such as the game is a little too easy in the lower 
 diffuculty settings and the vehicles in the game are waaaaay to overpowering.
  All and all this is a really good game that should not be overlooked by any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebecca_Girl_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the commercials for this a cople years ago I thought the game would stink but when I 
 had a coupl dollars on me I went ahead and baught tit and it was the best shooter game i've played! 
 It was awesome! I like riding in the warthog personally.. but anyway i'm in to you know stuff like 
 finaly fantasy and all that but this game this is the only other game than grand theft auto I play 
 that has blood and gore well I also play games like MGS3 but anyway killing aliens is pretty awesome 
 of course I thought when you had to save captain keys from the alien ship was a little difficult 
 but thi \s game was game of the year and had the best graphics for a game from 2003 I mean seriously 
 gta didnt even have good graphics back them anyway I love this game period.
  
  Please Reccomend My Reviews!
  
  Rebecca_Girl_1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeNOR
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  If you have never played Halo before you should definitely pick this up. The graphics may seem 
 out of date, but for a game that is several years old they hold up well. The game play is immersive 
 and will leave a benchmark in your head whenever playing any other fps. The sound is another high 
 point of the game as you can here the chatter of your enemies and get hints as to what they are 
 planning. Ever explosion, shot, and cry is spot on and will not disappoint. At $20 this is a must 
 buy for the collection of any PC gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I was dissapointed at the platform cross over of Halo. It was a good game on Xbox, but the PC version 
 wasnt up to par. There were no overhauls on the graphics or sound or physics so it was the same 
 thing but felt slower because its a consol game. So i wasnt impressed with it.
  The multiplayer was kind of fun once you got used to slow mo fighting. And there were maps and 
 what not to download but i never really did much with it because there were other PC games out 
 that were better.\
  So basically this is a game for hardcore Halo fans and noob FPS players. I dont really recommend 
 it when you could just play it on xbox and enjoy it more.
  Oh i should mention the story, those of you who have never played Halo, the story is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim345
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  If you haven't heard about this game yet your either my mother or a caveman traveling in time, 
 but in case you are, Halo is an amazing game which first came out for Xbox. Thats how I started 
 to play it, though I find the mouse and keyboard more accurate then joystick so i went with the 
 pc.
  I dont often play the Single Player game, though the story line is good, but I've played it through 
 so many times i actually hate it now... I usually play the multi player, its simple but oh so fun. 
 This game proves that graphics arent everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Current PC configurations (not the greatest computer for gaming but still gets the job done)
  Intel Pentium 4 at 2.20 Ghz
  640 MB of Ram
  ATI Radeon 9250
  
  Also Played On Xbox
  
 
  Halo is a solid FPS with numerous guns, several diffulculties, and a resonable single player length. 
 But current owners of the xbox version, may ask themselves, if the PC version is worth the money.
 
  Personally, if you can find them both cheep, they're both good in different areas. Owning the 
 xbox version benifits split screen, and co-op. While the PC adds a few new guns to the mix, and 
 a largly sucessful online multiplayer. But since this review is for the PC, I will from here on 
 in just focus on the PC version of Halo.
  In the single player of halo, you are in an enviorment with a lot of fun, unique weapons, a lot 
 of enemies to kill, and multiple diffulculties to play. But as with Halo 2, the game really strongly 
 relys on its excellent multiplayer for replay value to be found. I also found that the single player 
 can feel repetive in the later levels.
  Graphics and sound may be a little dated, remember that this game is a direct port from a game 
 that came out several years before the PCs inital launch (2001 if i remember correctly, PC version 
 came out in 2003 or 2004) . Though for the age of the game, these graphics still look very good. 
 
  Worth the purchase, I think so, currently 20 dollars, and there are still several servers to join 
 online. Though slightly overrated, Halo is still a solid game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Knight2000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:   what can i say... its halo...... i mean its a mile stone in the 
 gaming industry and THE GAME on xbox.......
  
  lets start wid graphics, graphics r amazing for its time .... storyline, unbelivebly griping ....... 
 sound, amazing....... mulitplayer, simple...... A LEGEND....... it has it all, the story is basically 
 set in teh future where humans fight the technonlogycally supiror alien race called 'the covenent".. 
 so humans make a group of genetiaclly altere super soldiers called "SPARTANS".... they r then unleashed 
 on the covenet.. but then after the fall of a human outpost called reach.. the fight settels on 
 a strange thing called HALO.... its basically a planet that looks like a ring... well , i dont wanna 
 spoil teh story...... ull see
  
  i cant say more........ just go out and play it........ its a must haev to any FPS lover... infact, 
 to any gamer......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all halo is a great game no matter what version you are playing on but there is some differences. 
 On this pc version there is a online multiplayer mode which is solid but it is very unbalanced 
 since vehicles cant be destroyed anyone in a banshee technically always wins the battle. Sometimes 
 it is pretty fun if you are doing smaller maps but vehicle maps especially maps with banshees arent 
 very fun to play. The graphics arent as good as the xbox version even if you are running it on 
 a high end pc. You dont get that glow you would get with the weapons on the xbox version and textures 
 look flat. If you havent experienced the xbox version yet by all means check this out but for the 
 rest of us we should just stick with the original xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdboy272
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best things ever to happen to planet earth. Those who do not like this 
 game........ should be lined up and shot. People who like driving will love this game. People who 
 like flying stuff will love this game and those people who like going berserk aka me will really 
 love this game. The story line is fantastic I will let you experience that for your self and the 
 graphics are absolutly stunning. Every part of this game is spectacular so you should stop reading 
 this review stand up go get your car keys or ask your parents to drive you and go buy a copy right 
 now.
  
  
  The best part is the free online multiplayer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohandas_Gandhi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Now that I have to pay for everything I own now, I can't play Xbox live with Halo 2. But then, 
 I got this. The graphics were great since I got a new video card. The gameplay is really fun, especially 
 online, and has kept me entertained for about a year now. The sound can be a bit messed up at times, 
 but it is only a minor problem and shouldn't be any reason you don't get this. The value of this 
 game? Priceless! There is really millions of things you can do, especially if you get the Custom 
 Edition. All in all my experience with it was tremendous and truly a spectacle for the ages. You 
 shouldn't listen to any of the sheeps or cows on here that are trying to bash this game around. 
 If you are truly seeking a fun game, buy it. It is an easy way to have great fun without Xbox Live 
 or PS2 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecookiecrew
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has gained great reviews from pretty much everyone, yet I don't like it on any level. 
 Most of you will disagree, others will feel as I do, so here's my opinion.
  
  Gameplay is fairly average. You play a genetically engineered person fighting against alie... blah 
 blah blah. My first observation was how bland the games locations were, and how repetitive the 
 game itself was. The enemies themselves are fairly varied, but not vastly different from each other. 
 When the Flood get involved, it all goes very downhill very fast. They are possibly the worst enemies 
 in gaming history, and are the only enemies in the infamous Library level, which is an atrocity 
 of cataclysmic proportions. It is the most repetitive thing since my GCSE physics years, and is, 
 unbelievably, more painful. It was true endurance that saw me through this level, as I had paid 
 hard earned money for the game and wanted to finish it, which I did. If you couldn't tell, I was 
 ever so slightly underwhelmed by this highly rated piece of electronic entertainment. 
  
  The graphis were, at least, not terrible. Fairly good, but with bland character models and landscapes. 
 In a word, repetitive. 
  
  Sound was uninteresting overall, but I liked the theme tune. It was what got me into the game.
 
  
  Halo is a short game, with only 10 levels. There is online multiplayer, but you can only play as 
 the Chief (in differently coloured suits, no less!) . Lack of variety somehow springs to mind again.
 
  
  Overall, I think you get my drift. I didn't enjoy this game, and I suppose I'm in a minority when 
 I say this. There are better FPSs out there, such as Unreal Tournament 2004, Half-Life 2, Metroid 
 Prime and the TimeSplitters series. 
  
  Play those instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the few that held out way to long to play this game and kinda missed the boat on it. 
 However once I did get it, I played it and played it and played it. Even now I still kick myself 
 for not getting into this game sooner. 
  
  Way back when, before Halo became a microsoft product, I can recall reading the early info on it 
 and thinking to myself, wow, now that sounds like a good game. Then Microsoft bought it and made 
 it an X-Box only game. 
  
  Well that was enough for me to say no thanks. What a big mistake that was.
  
  After finally 
 buying a dicounted version for the PC, I found that ignorance toward this game was something that 
 I will forever regret. This game is simply one of the best games I have ever played. Multiplayer 
 was surprising fun and addictive, not as much fun as TRIBES 2, but still up there higher than UT.
 
  
  I cannot say enough good things about this game. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timdadog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  When tghe XBOX released this game, I really didn't get what the hype was about until the game came 
 to PC. And even then, it took me a while to get it. Let me just say that if you are looking for 
 a good FSP to start off with, look no further because this is your baby. The game starts off with 
 a very interisting story and it doesn't take long to get into the action. The grapichs are good (though 
 a bit arcade like) but the modeling and game design compliment it. It gets a bit repeatitive but 
 otherwise it's okay. There's a lot to say about this title, so my advice, just go get the damn 
 game, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkplayer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Yeah now we have Halo on the PC. Is it worth getting this FPS that was ported from the Xbox to 
 the PC? The answer is a simple yes; Halo on the PC is still the great Halo game that was seen on 
 the Xbox. The PC version is mostly unchanged and that is a good thing. There are some improvements 
 however, in the graphics and most of all the addition of online multiplayer. The PC version is 
 still a great FPS and it shouldnt be overlooked as a console port because its still among the 
 best shooters on the PC.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game play in Halo is some of the best I have ever seen. Its just so fun battling the alien 
 foes. You see them teaming up on you and the battles are not only fun but also divers, you will 
 never see a group of foes attack you the same way, and you have so many options of killing them 
 from shooting the gun, or throwing grenades, or just simply hitting them to death, each way is 
 equally entertaining and only adds to the experience and are so fun to execute. My personal favorite 
 would be using Plasma grenades (which stick to enemies) and then simply throwing them on an enemys 
 back and then watch them run around frantically. Its executed so well in the game that you just 
 cant stop. Also when you die you simply get reborn at the last checkpoint and then you kill the 
 enemies in a totally different way. The enemy A. I. only adds to the experience as they interact 
 smartly, they roll hide and try to punch you up close. Halos huge environments and unique massive 
 battles make the game seem almost open ended and non linear even though on closer observations 
 it is. The controls are also excellent, FPS games are usually familiarized with a keyboard and 
 mouse and its usually difficult to play on a controller, however Halos control scheme is perfect 
 its the closest thing to having a keyboard and mouse, its both precise and responsive. The story 
 is also very interesting and easy to follow along. Another thing I loved about Halo was its exploring, 
 that might sound strange in a FPS, but Halo has a lot of places that you can explore and you can 
 even reach places that the developers didnt intend you to reach, such as the top of the mountain 
 on the Silent Cartographer. There are lots of secrets to see in Halo. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics in Halo are just excellent. There are so many things in Halo that looked breathtaking. 
 The water in the Silent Cartographer has to be my personal favorite, it looked absolutely stunning. 
 The pine trees and other trees also looked remarkably real, they were very detailed. If you walk 
 up to anything in Halo and look at it close up you will see the detail. When you look at the huge 
 boulders close up you see remarkable detail, and the trees, the grass and of course the aliens. 
 The environments are just breath taking, such size and detail has probably never been seen in a 
 FPS before Halo. And the Master Chief himself is also quite detailed the armor looks very impressive. 
 I was very amazed at how the game looked visually. The only downside is that it requires a pretty 
 good system to run smoothly on high settings, which is somewhat unexplainable since this is after 
 all an Xbox port which only shows that the game was badly optimized, also even though the visuals 
 are quite good they are nothing that PC gamers arent accustomed to and its only a slight upgrade 
 from what was seen on the Xbox.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in Halo is also very remarkable. The music is excellent. When the game starts up you 
 are greeted by a tremendous song that gets you fired up for the action. And when you are playing 
 the game music starts playing right when you are about to kick some alien butt. The music in the 
 game is awesome, it gets you fired up and its also enjoyable to listen to. The sound effects are 
 also terrific, from the guns, the vehicles, the explosions, and the aliens everything sounds incredibly 
 lifelike and exact. In one of the levels you can even hear the water falling down the waterfall 
 just remarkable. Halo has high quality music and sound effects and again I was just amazed by all 
 this. Also for anyone who has a surround sound set up, this game will sound incredible with surround 
 sound.
  
  VALUE
  
  The PC versions of Halo exceeds even the Xbox version in value since it has online multiplayer 
 support and more multiplayer levels, and you can get even more by downloading, or you can create 
 your own. The multiplayer component on the PC is everything Xbox owners have wanted for the Xbox 
 Halo, there are a number of levels and they support all the way up to 16 players. The only complaint 
 value wise is the same as the Xbox version, some of the levels repeat so it makes it easier to 
 finish those levels and they are less interesting. And the campaign mode isnt that long if you 
 are an experienced player.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Simply put Halo is a masterpiece, the game is perfect in almost every way and it certainly the 
 best FPS available on consoles, on the PC its still a superb shooter, its up there with some of 
 the best that the PC has to offer. I recommend Halo to anyone who is a huge FPS fan, hasnt played 
 or finished the Xbox version, or is simply is a huge Halo fan and wants to take it online should 
 look no further. Halo on the PC is among the best FPS's on the PC and shouldnt be ignored.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  When Halo exploded on the Xbox, more than just the console was propelled through the roof and to 
 long-lasting fame, but so was the idea that consoles could actually reproduce PC quality FPSes. 
 Halo, a game that was first intended for the PC was dumbed down for the mighty Xbox, and then released 
 some 2 years later for the PC where Bungie expected the same type of success.
  
  Bungie, a well known PC developer, shouldve been more careful with their planning: While Halo 
 mightve sold 4 million copies on the Xbox and saved Microsofts revolutionary console it fell 
 flat on its face on the PC.
  
  As a PC game, Halo isn't very impressive from many points of view. The graphics are good, but not 
 impressive. Even so, the game shipped with game stopping bugs, and a huge amount of graphical slowdown, 
 which came as a total surprise to PC gamers with monster rigs because even at the enormous 1280x1024 
 resolution the game has many jagged edges. The walls and soldiers stand out as the worst examples 
 of this, as even the most inexperienced player can witness the zigzag of the colorful edges of 
 most elements in the game.
  
  The explosions and draw distances are flat and unimpressive giving off a barely-satisfying vibe 
 of light and warmth. Draw distances are poor and animation leaves much to be desired, especially 
 during death sequences which seem very chopped up and slapped together much like an early silent-comedy.
 
  
  On the plus side, the game has a lot of nice and shiny surfaces... even more so than in the Xbox 
 version due to the DX9.0 effects. The character models are suitably well detailed, as are the enemy 
 and vehicle models, with each door or window of the Warthog clearly visible and perfectly waxed 
 to shine like the windows on the Sears Tower. Master Chief and his weapons are all well detailed, 
 albeit lacking in the animation department, with a minimalist lighting effects and decent modeling 
 and design.
  
  Overall, the graphics in Halo get the job done well enough to not make the eyes of PC gamers bleed, 
 but while that's always a plus when analyzing console ports Bungie could have done much more when 
 staging the games transfer to the PC.
  
  Halo has a great sound track that is both inspiring and well made. Different orchestral and vocal 
 scores accompany you in your missions, changing tempos as is necessary and using the Half-Life-effect, 
 where the music doesn't run through the whole game only at crucial moments, adds to the scores' 
 already numerous high points. The choice of music is also impeccable with a good representation 
 of genres, fast paced orchestral scores and uplifting vocal assistance.
  
  The voice actors do a good job of presenting Halos situations to you; however, the scripts do 
 not. Sometimes these scripts are laughable and can take away from the feel of the game. At other 
 times, they're so predictable that you can already tell on whose side some of your partners/enemies 
 are. On the other hand, the sound effects are well made and offer real depth and place in the game 
 world. Explosions give off a powerful boom and the Covenants scream, laugh and grunt with malefic 
 proficiency.
  
  Before I began playing Halo I knew not to expect much as far as the gameplay was concerned, generally 
 reviewers absurdly overrate console games... that's not to say Halo didn't get a fair chance. After 
 2 playthroughs on the PC, and one horrendous one on the Xbox, I came to a short and disappointing 
 conclusion: Halos gameplay blows major chunks.
  
  Halo begins on a ship under attack by the Covenant, the game's nemesis race of
  aliens. You play 
 as Master Chief, a half-cyborg half-human killing machine which is the only thing between the Covenant, 
 the ships impending destruction, and human kinds survival. In a Half-Life-type weaponless sequence 
 you travel through the ship's corridors up until you find a weapon and start blasting; from that 
 moment on the blasting doesn't stop. Soon after the less-than-impressive intro you get a lowdown 
 on what's going on. You were attacked by a race of aliens and are now forced to make an emergency 
 landing. Damaged as the ship is it's able to land on a halo shaped planet and continue its fight 
 against the evil Covenant.
  
  The story in Halo is more over rated than the impact the game itself had on console FPSes. One 
 could really care less for either the story, or Master Chief, or humanity. Part of the problem 
 is that the story very cliched and extremely predictable (sometimes due to the acting) , not to 
 mention youre never told why the hell your fighting in this game. The Earth is a few million miles 
 away, no one knows if the humans are trying to conquer the Covenant or if it's the other way around, 
 no one knows who Master Chief is and why he exists, other than the obvious cause hes the best 
 soldier we got and more. Misinformed and accompanied by a crew of sci-fi cliches (hot holo-chick, 
 idiot soldiers, evil aliens, bad robot) the story quickly becomes a snooze fest.
  
  Where the story fails however, the weapons in Halo are a complete disaster. Not only are they the 
 pinnacle of FPS cliches (assault rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher, need I go on?) , but they range 
 from useless to unbalanced and everything in between. It appears that in Halo, unless you go up 
 to your enemies and shoot them in the face at point blank you won't have much of a chance at success. 
 It also appears that in Halo your pistol is stronger than your rifle, since the latter requires 
 a clip to kill some of the game's stronger enemies while the first requires a few bullets. As if 
 all of those problems wouldn't be enough the weapons have no secondary fire mode. Why? Have we 
 gone back to the days of Doom? The two new weapons in the PC version don't add much to the killing 
 power of Master Chief and, other than the flamethrower, they fall in the same category as the rest: 
 standard.
  
  To be fair, not everything about Halo's weapon system is bad. Grenades are very useful, something 
 no FPS has managed to enact quite well enough yet. And the fact that your limited to only 2 weapons 
 at any time is a big plus since it helps with the "realism". The melee combat in Halo does its 
 job: It's stronger than ANY weapon but it's more dangerous since you have to get up close to smack 
 aliens around. The design of the weapons is also fairly original. The assault rifle is especially 
 revolutionary, through the inclusion of an on-the-weapon compass and ammo check.
  
  On the other hand, the vehicles in Halo are utter crap. Not one positive thing can honestly be 
 said about this sorry excuse for driving sequences. From to horrible control (you rotate the camera 
 where you want to go while you use WASD to get there) , to the fact that this game wants you to 
 perform some stupid stunts with these vehicles, to the fact that they're absolutely useless since 
 you only get them in certain events where you really have no choice if either you should use them 
 or not (unless you like to walk 4 miles in-game) , the vehicles become nothing more than a chore. 
 In multiplayer, things change a bit, but as the only vehicles that can be used in multiplayer dont 
 really emphasize cooperation the changes are hardly noticeable.
  
  Combat in Halo relies on Master Chief's armor  While this might be original, its
  the one thing 
 that ruins to whole game. The armor is the sole reason why you can survive against the Covenant. 
 This rechargeable shield defends your HP from enemy attacks and is pretty durable, but it also 
 bogs the game down like hell. You see, without this shield youre a sitting duck, so when it runs 
 out you should start running up until it recharges, using cover as necessary and waiting until 
 the shield recharges. However, herein lies the problem: While this technique has become more and 
 more popular recharging your shields in Halo takes forever! Spending 2 minutes fighting and 5 recharging 
 shields takes you out of the action and makes the game boring to tears.
  
  Furthermore, combat in Halo is almost ALWAYS the same, you run up to your enemies you blast them 
 in the face from 2 feet away and then you run away and hide so you can recharge your shields. Every 
 now and then you throw in grenade or pilot a vehicle but for the most part this game has more in 
 common with Doom than Half-Life: You enter in rooms and enemies start pouring in from all directions, 
 over running you. And since this game follows the Few, Powerful, Smart routine, youll be fighting 
 these enemies for a long while. Rise, rinse and repeat ad infinitum.
  
  This wouldn't be as painful to endure if it wouldn't be for the lack of diversity in levels and 
 monsters. Apparently Bungie ran out of monster designs after they got done with the 3rd model because 
 all enemies in Halo look just about the same... they do have varying colors though, much like in 
 Diablo. As for the levels, saying theyre horrible is a major understatement. Corridor after corridor 
 after corridor, with sparsely any diversity in a single level: All of Halos levels rely on one 
 template, which they use to death until the end of the level. Not to mention that the same tileset 
 is repeated some 15 times in the course of the game, along with the same general design.
  
  The comparisons between Halo and Doom or Half-Life are bound to be many, however where Halo fails 
 is that it has neither the atmosphere of those games nor is it as fast paced or as interesting. 
 Everything in Halo has been done before: You want story? Unreal and Half-Life have a story at least 
 as good, if not better than Halo's. You want pure shooting? Look no further than Doom, where the 
 weapons kill and the levels are not horrendous in design. Halo is missing even the basic "search 
 for key to unlock door routine" and it suffers from "I don't give a damn about the main character"-syndrome.
 
  
  Halo is not all bad however. The AI in this game is stupendous, easily deserving the award for 
 Best AI in an FPS game this side of Far Cry. And to be completely honest, some levels do make 
 you feel good, even if it's just for a short while, like the end level which has you running through 
 an exploding Covenant base as the clock ticks away. In the end however, that's just not enough 
 to retain much interest for this game. Perhaps if Halo came out in 2001, for the PC, things would 
 have been different but right now, the competition on the PC is fierce, and FPSes are way too many 
 to take Halos sub par gameplay into account.
  
  Microsoft does try to save some face with the multiplayer component of Halo, but it does nothing 
 than to add insult to injury: The multiplayer is a bad joke: Playing CTF Halo with 16 players when 
 there is a Halo mod for Battlefield 1942 with up to 32 players and without the vanilla CTF is an 
 insult to any gamer with 3 or more brain cells. Halos online CTF and deathmatch modes feature, 
 at most 16 players along with sub par maps, bad weapons and useless vehicles. When faced with other 
 PC games, one can just imagine how Halos multiplayer turns out to be as disastrous as the rest 
 of the game.
  
  Therefore we come to the conclusion that Halo fills neither a gaming niche nor is it a genre defining 
 piece of software: Halo turns out to be a decent shooter for those who want a quick fix of action 
 against a big scary alien, but its got no place by such greats as Doom, Half-Life, Call of Duty, 
 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, Battlefield 1942 or Unreal.
  
  If you want game that doesn't have an absent storyline and that's really just chocolate glazed 
 Doom in space, Halo's for you. Otherwise, steer clear.
  
  P. S. And if you really must play this game, heed my warning: DO NOT get the Xbox version. The framerate 
 during some of the more intense firefights makes playing Quake 2 on a 486 seem like a blessing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chblj00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is as fun as it gets with a first person shooter. The gameplay and value are great for 
 this game.
  The multiplayer is really fun and addictive. 
  The story for campaign is the best ever for a first person shooter. Its compelling and very suspensefull 
 and has puzzles and can be eerie at times, especially in the Library level, which is also very 
 challenging.
  The graphics arn't up there with the rest of the game, but arn't bad either.
  Its great fun for a game that doens't need as amazing of a computer like Half-Life 2 or FEAR.
 
  The sound is great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturoMena4
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game has alot of the greatness of the original Halo. Plus free Online Play!!!
  
  I pass all thay (triying9 to kill people on the net.
  All the Story levels avaible
  Multiplayer 
 enhanced with new levels, dowloadable ones, make your own, and more.
  You can easily joing a game, and prepare to kill, or be killed.
  
  You can download a Trial, 
 that includes one mission (the first one) of the many, long ones. Free Multiplayer.
  Althought is not Xbox, it emulated pretty well.
  The keyboard (default) combination is pretty 
 easy. And you use the mouse pointer as the snipe.
  You will be finding yoursell connecting to halo full days.
  
  Anyway, you should try this, 
 is very cheap, and very fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windofsoccer123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  this is a good game overall, good gameplay. graphic is alright. there is a lot of points i don't 
 like about this game. the story mode sucks, i hate when u r battling the flood and one of them 
 shows up in front of ur face when u turn around, is too scary lol. on online is gay when ppl use 
 vecihle, is just gay when they r guarding their base with it, u get kill in a sec. grpahics can 
 improve. but those things improved on halo 2 i think. i will write another view on halo 2 when 
 it comes out and i will compare this to halo 2. have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  Pros: Halo was one of the best games on the XBOX console, the story was very good. The enemies 
 had alot of difference between them and the master chief just ruled! The graphics are good although 
 not as perfect as todays engines, the only real upgrade to the engine was AA and higher resolutions. 
 The controls are a little bit better than on the XBOX. 
  
  Cons: The problem is that this is a console game, it is made to be played with a controller. Now 
 it has been transferred to PC to be played with an Keyboard and mouse makes the game too easy. 
 I played the XBOX version almost 4 times in a row, but when I launched the PC version it was one 
 big dissapointment. I quitted the game within 10 minutes, it was just so easy and it just didn't 
 had the special feeling I had with the XBOX version. If you're looking for a special Shooter then 
 there are much better out there than Halo! (If you own a XBOX console then you must try this on 
 it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Blu3
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Halo is one of those games that rarely come in the gaming era, because many gamers think that "revolutionary 
 gameplay" has ended. Ever since Half-Life 1, the gaming era just stopped there and started making 
 first-person shooter games with Half-Life 1`s gameplay mechanics. It seemed gaming ran out of ideas. 
 Gaming was just doing the same old thing, over and over again. Until games like Halo came by, and 
 revolutionised the genre in big-wide ways!
  
  Halo`s story-line is one thing that makes the game awesome, if possible! You play as the Master 
 Chief, the last of the Spartans which is a cyborg army created by humans to stop an alien force 
 called the Covenant. You see, Master Chief is the last of the Spartans, because the Covenant destroyed 
 a second human planet called Reach, which was created (again) by the humans since the human population 
 on Earth was growing larger and larger, so they made more space for the human population. So, the 
 Covenant destroyed Reach, with the Spartan soldiers on the planet. Master Chief, leader of the 
 Spartan army, was rescued on a ship called the Pillar of Autumn. After the Master Chief`s rescue, 
 he goes into a cryo sleep until the Pillar of Autumns`s crew gets to their destination... A ring 
 world called Halo. The crew is wondering why the Covenant are going to this ring world, and now 
 the humans must find out before the Covenant do their main-objective: to activate the thing. The 
 humans and Covenent are now in a race to find the true secrets of Halo and activate it or the human 
 race, or the universe, will be demolished.
  
  The gameplay is revolutionary, there are many things that make the game-play that don`t connect 
 from point A to point B. It isn`t like "you pick up the gun then you shoot the enemy, now you go 
 tot he other one doing the same thing that you did to the other enemy", instead, you have abilities 
 that are very helpful. First of all, the most important one is the "Weapon-Carryment" system. This 
 is the first-ever game that had this realistic feature. In Halo, you can carry 2 weapons at a time 
 and There are 8 weapons in the game. Each weapon is a strategy to the gameplay. So, it isn`t like 
 you`re looking for the strongest weapon in the game, every weapon has there uses and it will make 
 things useful when you`re in an area with the right weapon at hand. Halo`s abilities are very useful. 
 The most used one are the melee attacks. No, I`m not saying the melee attacks that you have to 
 equip out of your inventory, I`m saying melee attacks that you use any time you want. How you might 
 say? Well, simple queshtion. Every weapon in the game can be used to smack your enemie`s ugly faces 
 by the back of them. So, when your reloading and you`re close to an enemy while doing so, you can 
 smack your enemy down which makes him stun for a short while or to just keep hitting him until 
 he goes down, just to give you a chance to do what you`re doing (reloading, of course) . The game 
 has many enemies packed right in front of your face, and you can die very easily, but don`t worry, 
 it is very possible to take down the enemy since your Spartan suit`s sheilds to protect you. This 
 works by having a gauge at the top left of your screen. When you take damage, you see your gauge 
 lower down a bit. When your gauge is down, your shield are down and you`re vulnerable to the enemy, 
 and you must take cover before your health goes down by the enemy`s fire. When they recharge, you 
 can go back in and do another strategy that didn`t work. And sometimes when you`re taking cover 
 from shots, it is always good to throw a grenade or 2 since there are so many enemies that have 
 you cornerd. Just like the melee attacks, you don`t have to equip the grenades out of your inventory. 
 Master Cheif can throw them with his left arm while holding his gun on the right arm. This ability 
 is very important, and exilerating since there are so many enemies in one group and it is very 
 fun to just throw one in a squad of aliens and see them fly into walls! The main thing that makes 
 the game give you so many strategies is the A. I. Your enemies are very smart. They work as a team 
 to take you down, and they use cover usefully. If the enemies don`thave any cover, they will run 
 toward you while blazing there accurate shots at you just so they can take out your shields and 
 eliminate you.
  
  The graphics look good, but are right now outdated. The bump-mapping looks great and the 30 Frames-Per 
 second makes the game look preaty darn cool. Sadly, most of the effects that are used in the game 
 have been used in other games, except they have been revamped up alot more then Halo. The sound 
 is very awesome! The game`s original, musical score is the best out there in gaming history. The 
 guns sound very strong and the voice acting is top-notch. with EAX, the game will sound better 
 then ever, but if your system is a little bit too powerful, you will hear the sounds skip or crackle 
 out of place, just like when you spray your assault rifel.
  
  As I said, the game is very fun. The AI just gives you an exciting feel to the experience. The 
 AI keeps you on your toes as they think of a good strategy to kill you. The single player campaign, which 
 is worth every penny, is amazing in it`s own right, but the game has a multiplayer mode. It has 
 its basic modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch, ect. But despite the PC port actually having multiplayer, 
 you`d expect it to be better. Sadly, it is worse. The multiplayer has many bugs. If you shoot at 
 an enemy, it won`t to nothing but make a squirt of blood come out of an enemy and it won`t do any 
 damage. The only way to kill an enemy is to shoot there side whcih needs skill since the enemys 
 strafe and keep hitting you with the pistol, which makes things very cheap. Also, the multiplayer 
 of Halo has many amounts of lag. Veichels will twitch sometimes, enemies will teleport to random 
 places, and... Well.... You`ll automatically die for no exact reason! If you do go on a good server, 
 you will have a blast and have some awesome moments as if you were really on a battlefield.
  
  Halo is one of those shooters that belong with one of the best shooters in the market. So, 
 I recommend every shooter fan to have this game in there collection ASAP. Get it for its single-player, 
 it is worth every penny!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Halo consists of an intense, story-driven single-player campaign and a multiplayer mode. The campaign 
 is a good 12 hours long at the normal difficulty setting, and the dynamic nature of the battles, 
 along with the multiple, well-balanced difficulty settings, gives it good replay value. The multiplayer 
 component only supports up to 16 players and includes a bare-bones integrated server finder. The 
 game tends to play smoothly online if you can find a server with a low enough ping, and it features 
 an assortment of different modes, which are variations on the standard modes of play found in your 
 typical multiplayer shooter: They include slayer (meaning, deathmatch) , team slayer, capture the 
 flag, king of the hill, and some others, though slayer and CTF are by far the most popular choices 
 judging from the servers that are up and running. 
  
  The graphics are very well done much better than the XBOX obviously, and the textures really stand 
 out with all settings maxed with 1920x1200. It is not really a system hog but will require a fairly 
 equipped PC.
  
  If you have Halo for the XBOX then there's really no reason to buy this for the PC, but if you 
 want to experience the FPS and your favorite console shooter on the best platform for it, then 
 look no further than the PC version. For those of you who are going to upgrade your sound card 
 soon and already have Halo on the XBOX and don't want to spend the money on it again. Then look 
 for one of the many bundles that Creative has with games, and Halo is in a lot of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SycamoreWolf
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out, everybody flocked to the stores to purchase it. Lots of kids at my school 
 were obsessing over it, saying it could possibly be the greatest shooter game ever created. Hearing 
 this, I decided to buy it, and It didn't quite meet the standards I was expecting. First of all, 
 the concept seems only to be, get gun, kill enemy, move on. I thought maybe they could have added 
 a few more guns, I grew tired of the same old weapons I had to keep using. Also, the graphics aren't 
 the best, especially cut-scenes. Though, it could be a entertaining game if your trying to have 
 fun with it. I'd say the funnest part of the game though, is driving your limited selection of 
 vehicles off the canyons cliffs. The sound is fairly good though. Sometimes sounds like Pirates 
 of the Caribbean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  this game wasnt sooo good i am a very big first person shooter fan and u wuld know that if u look 
 at all my reviewed games almost all are fps and this was probly one of the worst fps or the pc 
 ive ever seen The graphics were not even close to todays standards and the gameplay had several 
 things missing i just didnt like this game the multiplayer came short not enough variety and the 
 single player just got really boring after like the first hour of playing it i would not reccomend 
 this game to anyone i know many ppl think im nuts for saying this but w/e this game is ok but not 
 everyting ppl make it sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NSJx8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest I have ever played. Its got everything. You can say its a more 
 modern Vice City, but without the roaming feature. There are great weapons and vechiles awaiting 
 you. I would say that anyone would enjoy this. And the graphics are excellent, well there excellent 
 if you have more than a decent graphics card. And multiplayer is very addicting, and you can download 
 Custom Editon and play on great custom made maps. My favorites maps are Blood Gulch and Hugeass. 
 So if you havent picked it up already, GET THIS GAME! I know you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Halo came out for the Xbox and was apparently this wonderful and perfect game. Now it is out for 
 the PC and I can finally play this hyped up game. Well, the game is extremely fun but it is not 
 all that the hype made it out to be.
  
  The graphics for Halo are excellent. If your computer can handle it, you will get one of the best 
 looking games that I have ever played. It looks better than the Xbox version as far as I can tell 
 and features some really good effects and monsters.
  
  The sound in Halo is also very well done. The music is great and the sound effects fit perfectly 
 in the universe they are creating.
  
  Now, the gameplay of Halo is where I was disappointed. This is just a standard FPS. You run, you 
 gun, you kill all the monsters. That is it. Nothing more. Yes there is a detailed story in there 
 but the gameplay didn't match, for me, the quality of the rest fo the game. It was all fun, but 
 there was no extra something to the combat that made it stand out from other FPS. It doesn't hold 
 the shock factor of a game like Doom 3 or the historical presentation of a Medal of Honor. 
  
  Halo was a fun and intense shooter. It featured superb graphics and sound and a wonderful story. 
 But when it comes down to gameplay, it is just another FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atoranjugan
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard saw Halo for the Xbox, it looked so incredible. Unfortunately I didn't have 
 an Xbox. So my brother and I waited patiently for it to come to PC. So eventually me and my brother 
 each get it for pc and it slaps us with the biggest suprise- no co-op!!
  
  I usually believe that a game ported to pc will be better, like graphic wise ( which Halo on pc 
 does look better) . But loosing features? That was one of my favorite features of Halo. That was 
 a big disappointment and I've sold it and evenually got an Xbox but I have since been turned off 
 of Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogisman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I have to say about this game that it is great. First of all the game play is amazing 
 if you are a fan of first person shooter (like I am) you will absolutely love this game. There 
 is a good amount of weapons and they have trategical advantages if you use some of them in conjunction. 
 But I was a little disappointed by the graphics. I mean it just looks OK with every thing on medium 
 or high but even if everything is on low it had bad bad framerate issues, even if you have the 
 highest grade PC it would still chug pretty slow in large fights but over all the graphics are 
 decent. What i was impressed by though was the sound, I mean it's Halo. I found that the sound 
 was really realistic and i found myself in the game hearing everything. The voice acting isnt bad 
 either I found the voices sounded like real people so over all the sound was pretty impressive. 
 It also has good replayability value if you first play the game on normal then you find your self 
 craving more you'll probably be playing it through hard a couple of times before you think you 
 are good enough for the ultimate... legendary difficulty. Also the online is great which will leave 
 you playing Halo alllllll the way until Halo 2 comes out for the pc. But one let down for the online 
 is that if you have dial-up the lag on most of the servers it pretty bad but every once in a while 
 you can find a few decent servers to play on for lagless fun! All in all this game is great and 
 i recomend this for anyone who does'nt have an xbox and wants to play the legendary game Halo.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWhatzup
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  The Xbox is only here today because of Halo; Halo is the game that kept Microsoft in the gaming 
 market and its finally on the PC. Although there may be a few downsides and some of the gameplay 
 that made Halo for the Xbox great is lost, Halo for the PC is still one of the best FPS of the 
 Year. Gearbox (the team that made the PC port of Halo) is a mostly known for making most of the 
 Expansion pack for the original half-life, like Blue Shift and Opposing Forces. They or so made 
 Half-Life for the PS2. Gearbox does have a good history and this made me even more exited about 
 Halo. 
  
  Halo has been credited with being one of the best if not the best console FPS ever made, so naturally 
 this made most PC gamers even more existed about playing the game. I do think PC gamers including 
 myself were expecting to much from a console FPS and because I never got an Xbox until late 2004 
 I had no idea what to expect. After all Gearbox has been making the port for two years.
  
  I have been a huge fan of PC FPS for a long time; the original Half-Life for the PC got me into 
 PC gaming in the first place. So this may be the reason why (for me and most other PC gamers) Halo 
 for the PC was such a big disappointment, with all that aside its still a very fun PC FPS that 
 is easy to get into and should be played by most people who have an interest in PC FPS.
  
  Halo for the PC does do a good job of standing up to most FPS on the PC realest in 2003 but compared 
 to ten years of FPS action on the PC (starting from when to original Doom came out) its not up 
 there with the best the genre has to offer, but noun the less if you have the PC to play it and 
 like the a good FPS every now and then go pick up Halo for the PC now if you dont already have 
 for the Xbox.
  
  If you are expecting something revolutionary from Halo then you may be very disappointed, halo 
 does not change the gameplay formula in any way, but it is fun to play and it never gets boring 
 or repetitive. It wont hurt to play the single player campaign over and over again,
  
  The multiplayer side of the game is the better side of Halo; the multiplayer is what made a lot 
 of people who already have the game on the Xbox purchase the PC version. But overall it just has 
 average deathmatch (which is called slayer in the game) and Capture the Flag. There is one game 
 mode that is very fun to play, its called Race, the goal of it is to jump into what ever moves 
 faster than you and you to go around the map 15 times as fast as you can, it fun but when there 
 are four people to every warhoug (the most common vehicle in the game) it can get very boring. 
 Overall the multiplayer side of the game is great and will last you for a long time. 
  
  The unit ally or enemy have great A. I, no battle will be the same. The Covenant will send there 
 elites in first while the weak units (grunts) will follow in behind. But sometimes the A. I does 
 act a bit unintelligent; sometimes if you fire upon one of the elites he/she will run behind a 
 wall and don't move, even if you are standing right next to it, this only happened a few times 
 though. 
  
  PCs will always have better graphics than consoles, maybe not in the first year or so but PCs 
 will catch up, Halo for the PC is just an average looking game, its up to the standard but there 
 are much better looking games on the PC at the time (2003) . If Gearbox realest the game one year 
 ago then the game would have looked stunning but as the average hardware goes up the standard or 
 so goes up. 
  
  The game still looks good though, the vehicles, environments all look great, its just the human 
 character models that let the graphics down, they just look bland and bulky apart from Master Chief. 
 The Covenant models look great, much better than the human models but there is not a lot of Varity 
 in them, it feels like you are facing the same enemy over and over again (until you get to the 
 flood) . 
  
  The particle effects are some of the best seen in a game for 2003, every time a bullet hits a wall, 
 crumbles of concrete will chip away, every time you shoot at metal, sparks will go in every direction 
 and its just a great thing to look at. 
  
  The physics are some of the best Ive seen, they are most noticeable when you driving a vehicle, 
 when you ride off a cliff you land how you should land, when other people are riding with you the 
 vibration makes them move how the should. Overall the physics along with the great particle effects 
 make save the graphics from being outdated.
  
  The framerate is an issue; if you just reach the minimal system requirements then you will suffer 
 a very low framerate, if your computer is up to the standards of PC hardware there will not be 
 a problem, there is an option in the graphics menu that allows you to keep the game at a contest 
 30 FPS. Still 30 Fps is still very playable and you will only notice it at the most intense battles. 
 
  
  In halo Master Chief almost never talks, only in a few scenes does he talk and then is only a few 
 sentences of that. The voice acting for the rest of the characters is spot on, Captain Keys, Cortana 
 (the ships A. I) and the rest of the marines voices all sound like they should. The enemies you 
 will be fighting all sound very strange, the grunts will have a quaky little voice with the grunts 
 will scream as they fall to the ground (dieing) . But the Covenant do sound like they are not human 
 and these voices that sometime dont suit them sort of give them a personality. 
  
  The weapons in the game all sound fantastic, from the small handgun you start out with the Plasma 
 Rocket Launcher they all sound powerful and realistic. The soundtrack for the game is one of the 
 best soundtracks I have ever heard (for a game) , when you start up the game and go strate to the 
 main menu it's nice to just sit there and listen. 
  
  The campaign in Halo is the main attraction and will keep you glued to the monitor for hours at 
 a time; it wont hurt to play the campaign over and over again as you try different difficulties 
 and learn more strategies as you play the game. With all this you may get 40 hour out of a 12-14 
 hour campaign.
  
  When I first played Halo for the PC I thought the series was very overrated but after playing the 
 Xbox version I can say it just a weak port, but still a fun, addictive action game that is easy 
 to recommend to for anyone who has not got the Xbox version yet. 
  
  Even in 2006 there are still a lot of people playing Halo online and still in 2006 Halo for the 
 PC is still a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummerboykhari
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  this games is a must for all xbox lovers out there! this story takes place lightyears from eath. the 
 covenat have found it. HALO! can masterchiefd prevent the covenat and the moniter from using this 
 weopon to wipe out the human race? or will all break loose as masterchief tries to stop the end 
 to the human race! ranging from a ton of weopons and some vehicles! this game rocks all !
  too much enemies? NO PROBLEM! just use your meelee attck and smack in the face! and if you want some 
 very bloody attacks then use your plasma pistol for some gory action! so if you want to save the 
 world or just have fun killing up some dangerous aliens.. this is the game for you.*note*hunters 
 are the most powerful enemies in the game so don't waste ur time shooting them in the face. go for 
 the yellow spot on thier back and BLAST AWAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OO7OO7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The game play is great there is alot to do in this game but the thing i like most is the online 
 play there are a lot of options to choose from. The sound it is very good the guns sound real but 
 the sniper sounds the best out of all of them. The graphics are ok nothing new ive never seen befor 
 but the arenas and turain look very good. The valu is great there is alot to do in this game and 
 its a classic pc game. If you do not have this game for the PC or X-BOX you should get it. It should 
 not be missed its a classic.
  
  I cant wait to get a PlayStation 3 i hope Sony stick to there plan of a 2006 spring launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaSlice
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! The story mode will keep you on your feet and it had some very good twists 
 and turns. The graphics are really good and the sound is good to, but the best part about this 
 game has to be the multi player. It is awsome and set up with just the right options. And even 
 when you get tired of the multi player maps avaiable you can get Halo CE which allows you to get 
 new fan-made maps and is really fun. The mods you get are so fun to play around and you most likely 
 will be hooked to this game for some months. Many people who say it is over rated probably have 
 not played it our are jealous that they can't get it. This game is all that it can be and then 
 some! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr4cker
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay as ive said is very enjoyable, fast and addictive. You have a good ammount of weapons 
 and intelligent enemies to meet them. Your basic weapon is the assualt rifle but later on as u 
 meet more enemies u can take their weapons for ur own. The enemies have interesting tactics - they 
 will duck, run, manuvre themselves all over making it difficult to hit them, and in all they seem 
 to be very intuned with what is going on. The best part of the game is its trademark - the charging 
 shield. This incredible piece of hardware makes it so that u never have to pick up more shields 
 since it refills itself everytime u have a second to spare and this saves u hours of frustration 
 and is the best part of the game.
  Unfourtunetly, the game's amzing gameplay is sometimes put to a hault in certain areas, where the 
 gameplay becomes very repetitive and u find urself having not only to retrace ur steps but ur steps, 
 well they seem to be identical - many rooms look alike and u have dosens of them.
  Another flaw to my taste, is the enemies - u have only a small ammount of enemies and u end up 
 having to fight them over and over again throughout the game.
  Graphics:
  The graphics are top notch. The landscapes shadows, effects, everything just looks great. You can 
 see everything reflecting off ur weapon and when using ur assualt rifle u can actually vividly 
 see the ammount of bullets u have left very clearly ontop of the weapon. Most everything is detailed 
 wonderfully.
  Sound:
  The sound of the game fits the grahpics and the atmosphere, where u leap into an open area u hear 
 chase music, when ur in a scary place u hear frightening sound... Most over this is an intuitive 
 way to highten the enjoyment of the game. The best track in the game, is the one used mainly for 
 the game's menue when u just turn on the game - its a chorus number that i will never forget, hear 
 it for urselves.
  Value:
  Well this game definitly deserved the 50$ it cost when it came out 3 years ago, but now in 2006 
 when it still costs around 20$ (i guess i should be greatfull that its still on the shelves though) , 
 well this is kind of cruel.
  
  All in all this game is one great step for FPSs and a revolutionary one at that. I had an amazing 
 time playing this game, i never needed a use of a walkthrough like so many other games because 
 everything just makes it so easy to make ur way aorund the game and wherver there are enemies, 
 u know that thats where u have to go.
  
  -I would recomend this game to anyone looking for a great time playing a game- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Halo for the PC is a very good game, with an amazing story. If you ask me, the gameplay and controls 
 is pretty much perfect balance of controls and style, and the difficulties vary at a good range. 
 The campaign is the first half of the game, as you play through the story that is from the xbox 
 version of the game. There are about a dozen levels, and all have different variety and memorable 
 parts. The second level is perhaps the worst one, as it takes a long time and a lot of tedious 
 driving, but the resto f the levels are pretty well balanced. The multiplayer is probably the best 
 part of the game, as up to 16 players can play on classic halo maps, and new ones as well.
  
  I also must give a special note to the sniping system in this game. They have a nice thing 
 where you actually have to aim ahead of your target the farther it gets away from you. There are 
 also several new maps, weapons, and vehicles in multiplayer, which add to the experience. The gameplay 
 is excellent, and it flows nicely, as I mentioned before.
  
  The graphics good at best. With an average PC, the graphical settings must be set to lower settings 
 in order to create smooth performance. It looks ok, and the framerate is usually pretty good paced, 
 but at the highest settings, the grpahics look very crisp and great. The sound is basically what 
 you'd expect it to be, and the value is pretty good becuase of multiplayer and different difficulties. 
 The campaign even gives you good value, as on Legendary, it may take you a while to beat, if you 
 can. You will get bored of multiplayer after a while. Even though it is a very good multiplayer 
 attachment, there are certainly some better and bigger games out now, so you will mostly have to 
 be a halo fan in order to stick around for long.
  
  Overall it is an excellent game, which is Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Halo was an average game for X Box. Then it's sequal is on X Box and it is an average game as well. 
 Halo is now on PC and it is now good. This is the way it should be played. With a mouse and a keyboard. 
 The game has the worst story ever. The gameplay is the same as any FPS. The graphics are nice and 
 the sound is not good. There is multiplayer and it is awsome for an FPS. This game is a solid PC 
 game. It should be borrowed or tried out before being pirchased at a store or something like that. 
 
  
  A fun game but still average
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brookville
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Has the pc gaming community gone mad? Am i the last bastion of sanity remaining in a world full 
 of nutters? After all the hype and whining about release dates, Halo finally comes to pc land. 
 It's reputation precede's it, but does it live up to it? No. You start the game in a spaceship 
 which almost immediately come's under alien attack. It's the programmer's equivalent to premature 
 ejaculation. After 10 minutes of mincing around typical corridors which all look the same, firing 
 the same boring gun, shooting 'aliens' who are so cute it'll make you feel guilty for shooting 
 them (imagine blowing Rupert bear's head off with a shotgun.) , and still i was waiting for this 
 'great' game to come alive. 1 hour later i was still convinced that things would get going any 
 minute now. Ultimately they never did. I had some hope when i came across the vehicles, but was 
 left crestfallen that not only are the vehicles as dull as dishwater, but are often surplus to 
 requirements. The environment looks dull indoor's, with plain grey rearing its ugly head again 
 and again. Outdoor the relatively large area's are not made much use of - Linear is the order of 
 the day, though this isn't always a problem with FPS's. Weapons. I've always been of the opinion 
 that if a game that focuses on shooting things with guns does'nt have interesting guns then it's 
 not likely to make any of it much fun. The gun's on offer in Halo are largely generic, boring and 
 weedy, especially the assault rifle which, in keeping with many other pc shooters, like's to fire 
 at an annoyingly unsteady rate regardless of your pc's horsepower. Add to this a banal plot which 
 unfolds so slowly you'll forget your own name before it reaches a conclusion, the fact that iv'e 
 seen better collision detection between three blindfolded Llama's locked in a wardrobe wearing 
 big baggy underpants. All in all, Halo pc is at best mediocre, at worst, a half finished, half 
 hearted and cynical cheap-shot at your wallet. There were far better shooters available at the 
 time of it's release and the are plenty more now. This game smells of wee.
  Cheers.
  
  Jimmy Brooks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Say what you will about the PC, personally I love it, it is in all ways a viable gaming platform, 
 and Halo is a good example of that, you get all that stuff you loved about the Xbox edition, plus 
 some extra features that are great and pretty typical of PC games. The first is the embracing od 
 HD, since all PC monitors are HD, Halo is automatically played in HDTV, a nice feature, but that's 
 not all. Customizable controls are another plus, just think about playing the original Halo with 
 an Xbox 360 pad, or a PS2 look alike, and lets not forget the trusty keyboard and mouse here either. 
 The third thing is the greatest of all: online play. You will be so hooked on Halo's online play 
 that you may even argue that it's better than Halo 2's. Even if you already own the Xbox game, 
 you definitely should pick up this as well, especially at such a low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightjat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game considering i never played the xbox version. i loved it and i know others 
 do too. it may not be exactly like the original but it is good. if only they had halo 2. i should 
 probably just get it for my xbox though. i see this game being one of those where in ten or so 
 years everyone will look back and say that was the turning point. its like the super mario of a 
 new generation, our generation. it can never replace it but it is going in the record book for 
 sure. time will tell this games success and of course the money of it too. microsoft is bringing 
 in the bacon with this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Halo on the xbox is one if not the best xbox game to date and that includes halo2. But the only 
 ting missing was online multiplayer..... untill now. If you are looking for a good singleplayer 
 experience and you own an xbox pick it up for the box instead of PC. BUt if you are looking for 
 the best selling xbox game with multiplayeer look no farther. This Game has two new weapons ( plasma 
 launcher and flame thrower... which has pretty fire particals.) any way there are also 6 new maps. 
 Only draw back is that no diffrence in campagin mode which lowers value. but its all good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonard28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Halo is a awesome game why, well because of this:
  
  The gameplay is top of the line, it feels like any good shooter should feel. The AI is challenging 
 on higher difficulties and there is a great story which gives depth to the game. The graphics are 
 great and everything looks detailed but a lot of things dont look round but cornered wich looks 
 bad. The sound is good, voice acting had been done very well and the music is simply great. The 
 singleplayer is so much fun I played it on all difficulties and then again!
  The multiplayer is the best multyplayer that came along in quiet a while. You can customize everything 
 to your likes and above all it's really fun to play. The only problem with me is that it lagged 
 while other games like CoD didn't.
  
  My advice: Buy this game, you must have played this at least once.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonlc3221
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  First I must admit that I had no plans on ever playing this game. It completely set a level of 
 standards that everyone began using as a comparison with other FPS games. So basically, before 
 I even played this game, I already hated it.
  
  I first played the game at a friends house on the PC (it had already been available on Xbox for 
 quite some time) . I thought it was ok, but nothing spectacular. Then somehow I ended up borrowing 
 the game for a while. It sat on my desk for ever without even being played. Then one night I was 
 really bored so I started playing it. I must admit that at first I thought it was pretty bland. 
 Nothing stood out that said, "This is the ultimate FPS." So at first I thought it was just a bunch 
 of stupid hype.
  
  Next thing I knew, I was on Chapter 3 and things were starting to get very interesting. I think 
 if it hadn't been for such a great story that was starting to unfold, I might never have been so 
 drawn in. But I felt that I had to keep playing just to see what would happen next (kind of like 
 a really good book) . Not only the story, but the action as well make this game a truly unforgettable 
 experience that no one should miss out on.
  
  One of my favorite, but yet most irritating parts of the game is trying to decide which gun to 
 go with. I never really cared for any of the Covenant's weapons. I always stuck with the Standard 
 Issue Marine Firearms. I actually seemed to really like the handgun better than the damn assault 
 rifle. However, the shotgun was by far my favorite. I also like the sniper rifle, but it sure doesn't 
 hold much ammo. Since you can only carry two weapons at a time, it was very difficult for me to 
 decide which firearms to select when I would find a weapons-cache.
  
  What is even better is that the graphics are so great, they actually help out the gameplay. Never 
 would I have thought that being able to see so far away would actually add to some of the fun. 
 Now I can snipe off any enemies that I can find before I even come close enough for them to see 
 me.
  
  The visuals are just about perfect. My only complaint is that when you're using the scope on the 
 sniper rifle, the enemies seem to look a little clunky through the scope lense. I don't know if 
 this was done on purpose or not. Also a little more attention to detail in the environments, and 
 this game could quite possibly be up there on the top 5 games of all time.
  
  Explosions, gun-fire, creature noises, covenant back-talk, marine chit-chat, whatever it may be, 
 it's all present and done very well. Again, almost perfect, only downfall is that the music needed 
 to chime in a little more often with some changes to add to the atmosphere. Also maybe a little 
 more socialism from the Chief would've helped. He seems a little shy, especially in the first half 
 of the game.
  
  With online play and a great story, you can't go wrong either way. Even after you've beat it once 
 and played online a few dozen times, there is no reason why you wouldn't want to play through the 
 story again (maybe with a higher difficulty level) . This game has been out for a while now, so 
 I'm willing to bet you could pick it up for peanuts.
  
  Just about anyone could and SHOULD own this game. I usually played the game on my laptop (which 
 is a huge powerhouse) because I could get the most out of the game. However, I was still able to 
 run the game on my 500Mhz Intel Celeron, 256MB RAM, but yet 64MB stand alone video card. I'm sure 
 that if I had tried it without the stand alone video card (meaning I would've just used the shared 
 video) , it would've sucked really bad. So with the independent graphics card, I adjusted the displays 
 to lower settings, and it played beautifully. So that means that the majority of computer owners 
 would be able to play this without a hitch. GO BUY IT NOW!
  
  I hate to say it, but I think the story line beats my original FPS all-time favorite, which was 
 Red Faction. Sorry Parker, but the Chief needs my help to stop the Covenant and the Flood. Mars 
 will just have to wait.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Techdude99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  halo is a great game, although i don't own it, i borrowed it from a friend once, i almost beat 
 it in a day.
  
  halo has a great story, a very good selection of weapons ( (except for the assault rifle, and thats 
 only good when your fighting the flood..) ) good graphics, the music is fine, the voice isn't very 
 good.. it can get quite annoying to hear the grunts screaming over and over "RUN AWAAY! RUN AWAAAAY!!!"
 
  
  multiplayer is good.. although there are some very annoying people i call "flag betrayers" where 
 you have the flag.. your about to score and all of the sudden your lying on the ground and you 
 here the multiplayer voice saying "blue/red team scores."
  
  well i think thats all.. buy this game.. you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Davila89
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
 ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this ignore this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  In Halo: Combat Evolved, you play as a spartan, mastercheif. Aliens attack, humans fight back and 
 win, and a ton of sequels.... been there done that. This is like one of a million games fighting 
 aliens. 
  Ok first the aliens (covenant) attack the us space station, and you go on from there (i dont want 
 to give away too much) .... Now lets get with the program...
  
  Pros
  + large veriety of weapons
  + Graphics that sure is GREAT like tony's frosted flakes
  + good 
 sound and voice overs
  + the vehicles are really cool (scorpion pwns all!!!!)
  + The multiplayer is the best thing in this game
  
  Cons
  -Story line (been there done that)
 
  - AI might get too hard for some people
  -And AI can be quite stupid to some others (the enemies run often, exccept the really big ones)
 
  - Mulitplayer is the only thing good about the gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyir
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Good stuff. Diverse players online. Sniper CTF in sidewinder is great. I can run it on my laptop 
 w/ 512 RAM and 64mb Integrated graphics w/ the lowest settings. Not too many noobs. A lot of decent 
 gamers online now that this game has been out for a while. Good mods. Nice expansions. Decent maps 
 that are exclusive to the PC. With good a good subwoofer you can almost feel the kickback off of 
 some of the guns. In the Gephyrophobia map the sound of the wind is great. When playing over a 
 lan you can really get into it. Overall good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickoooo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must for any FPS fan.
  
  Story = 10/10 Its a First Person Shooter its not gonna be brilliant but i found it very good and 
 if you don't like it you'll be too busy killing the Flood to care.
  
  Game play = 10/10 Good length and difficulty. However the difficulty levels are more how you like 
 your First Person Shooter. Rampage (easy) or tactics (heroic and up) or a bit of both (normal) .
 
  
  Graphics = 6/10 You need a top of the line machine to run this game well at a steady fps on max 
 settings and even then you might experience slow down. A pro however is that on the lowest settings 
 it doesn't look that bad and the guns always look good. 
  
  Sound = 10/10 Pretty good sound and if you put earphones on it helps you get involved with the 
 game.
  
  Replay = 7/10 ok Multi Player but isn't the best but i always find the last level fun.
  
  My 
 score 9.4 Plenty fun to be had here.
  
  Rent/Buy Buy if you don't have the xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaJohn24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  This game has it all. 
  
  While being a Halo for Xbox fan, I must say I was shocked with the multiplayer on Halo: PC. 
 
  
  DO NOT buy this game for singleplayer only. It would be a waste of your greenbacks. The singleplayer 
 on the Xbox version of this game is much better. It is much more smooth and not as choppy. 
  
  However,
  
  The Online multiplayer is fast, addictive and very fun. The only few downside's 
 being the lower levels of players now playing, and also, the ammount of servers which have terrible 
 settings. 
  
  Thankfully, modding isn't a huge problem either. This game is now relatively cheap in stores, which 
 makes it an even better bargain. You won't be disspointed with Halo, on PC or Xbox. 
  
  This Game is a Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizz624
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  i had heard all the talk about this game, and decided to try it for myself finally. and i was not 
 disapointed. this is a very challenging game and addictive. once you start you loose all track 
 of time, with non-stop action, excellent graphics, and the quest to see what is around the next 
 corner or rock. it will keep your attention all the way thru till the very end with a never ending 
 supply of covenant and flood wanting to get at you. you will find a assorment of weapons and vehicles 
 to help you on your quest. with four levels and multi player you will never be bored with this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max_Power_17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics... beautiful game play..... awsome sound. I don't see why everyone in the world 
 has not fallen in love with Halo. Although the second series was a little over-rated, it can be 
 proudly stated that it all came from here. 
  
  Originals or the first in series are always the best and Halo surly did set the standards very 
 high for the second and now thrid. But games are too be judged. I loved the graphics of it all. 
 I have played it on the Xbox but I liked playing it on the PC better for some reason. Pitty about 
 the multi-player but meh nothings perfect. The game play is really kool and so is the story line. 
 And OMG awsome AI. It's like it's real! As in when your shooting and stuff it feels as though they 
 are actually playing againts you. Awsome work. 
  
  Personal I like number two more.... mainly because of its kick-ass multi-player and live but yeah 
 this game is the perfect starting piont for a beautiful series......... Halo is the way to go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genrallevve
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  your starting up as a soldier i a space craft figting your way to a space suttle landing on a planet 
 log form any help full with enemys.
  the contolles i very good and the only thin that can be bettre is the two weapons abilleties from 
 halo 2.
  the learning curve is very small time spendig is very long.
  the easy game is very fast and is so simple its fun.
  the normal has the perfect difficulty for 
 a first person shooters.
  the legandary is the hard task that makes legends.
  im not a f-p-s m self but i coldn't stop playing this game until the the end.
  thers something 
 from every one. come play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  This game is like the same game on XBOX. Only with some multiplayer twists. There are more maps 
 and you can now use the warhog with a rocket launcher attached to it! The that was annouced back 
 in 1998 as a multiplayer game for the PC but microsoft bought bungie and then they added a story 
 and also a multiplayer. Later on they made it a PC game so you know the original plans were not 
 canceled. It might not have a coop mode anymore but it is still very very fun. The funnest thing 
 about multiplayer is that you can play online and beat the crud out of everyone else. So trust 
 me buy this game you'll love playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snitch498
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  While it is a fun little game on the Xbox on the PC there are just
  too many superior shooters out there. Halo offers nothing
  new or special and the crappy graphics 
 and the lack
  of AI make it rather a tedius game in single player.
  
  The MP and the vehicle camping are not much fun either.
  All in all good I waited so long to 
 buy it for 15$ on ebay.
  
  An ok shooter with dates graphics. Don't believe the hype.
  Call of Duty , Farcry or Medal of Honor are way better.
  So if you dont have them, get them from 
 the bargain bin
  instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVANdaGUY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game. the story line was really well thought up and was lots of fun. the weapon 
 selection is also really good. and the multiplayer is great. tons of maps and weapons and different 
 ways to play. this one opened me up to on=line playing also. if you have an xbox then you have 
 to have this game. i played this game solid for months only leaving my room to go eat or the bathroom. 
 its very catchy and loads of fun. they can do lots of great things with this game if they do it 
 right. so i expect a lot more from the xbox when it comes to Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Halo on the computer is one of the best computer games ever! With good graphics and REALLY fun 
 multiplayer this game will have you hooked in no time at all. Well this on is developed by Gearbox 
 games you may know them from the amazing game brothers in arms, well they must be very good at 
 making games cause this is good. The campaign it the same as the xbox version but with a twist 
 of new weapons and one of them is not even in halo 2, the flame thrower is very cool, and the fuel 
 rod cannon is in halo 2 but it is a bit different, I think I like this ones better. The one thing 
 that will keep you coming back is this multiplayer. This game is I think a port from the xbox and 
 it lost none of the goodness from it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CantTouchThis12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game is one of the best shooting games I ever played. It has a good storyline, 
 considerably good graphics, excellent sound, and it is definitely worth playing. 
  The storyline of this game is very clear, but it also gives a lot of surprises along the way. There 
 is action, adventure, and overall, the gameplay is great. The guns are very good and after a while 
 you will start learning how to use every one. (gameplay = 9/10)
  The graphics of this game are pretty good, and acceptable. All the vehicle graphics are clearly 
 shown and at high resolution, the game has very good graphics overall. The panels, enemies, and 
 allies look very realistic and the graphics of this game is one of the things that can make you 
 start playing. (graphics = 9/10)
  The game's sound is fair, but it could be better. There is not much to say about sound, except 
 that the sound effects sound very realistic and the music tells you when you're in danger or when 
 you just did something good. (sound = 9/10)
  This game is worth playing, and if you are still struggling to see if you want to buy this game, 
 BUY IT! It is definitely worth it, and you won't be disappointed. (value = 9/10)
  I strongly recommend this game to any shooting game fans, and anyone who likes playing good quality 
 games. I give this great game TWO THUMBS UP! (reviewer's tilt = 10/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Halo has been in the works for quite some time. Originally slated for the Macintosh and PC, Microsoft 
 bought Bungie early during the development cycle to give the Xbox a much needed and talked about 
 exclusive. Gaining critical acclaim and being heralded as many as the best action game of the year, 
 Halo was very well received by the public when released for the Xbox. Having heard the wishes of 
 the computer crowd, Microsoft has finally released Halo for the PC, ported by none other than Gearbox 
 Software (makers of the official Half-life expansion packs) . 
  
  Technical Aspects 
  
  The game has some of the best graphics ever seen in a videogame thus far. The voice-acting is completely 
 top-notch, and the movies, all using the in game engine, are simply awe-inspiring. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  But what everything in a game really boils down to is its gameplay. Is the game 
 fun? In a resounding answer, yes. Nothing is more satisfying than pumping the shotgun into a hoard 
 of Covenant. The game restricts you to only being able to carry two weapons as a time, and gives 
 you grenades to battle the onslaught of beasts. While many might think of a two-weapon limit as 
 a limitation, it actually works out quite well. There is much strategy involved in figuring out 
 which weapon works best in which situation. The fact of the matter is, however, that there is such 
 an impeccable balance in the weapon design that almost any combination of weapons can get you by. 
 
  
  The game also features the much hailed vehicle system. From jeeps to flying ships, everything is 
 there to satisfy your craving. The control on the vehicles are completely satisfying. Most are 
 very easy to handle and only takes a short amount of time to master. 
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  The multiplayer in this game has its ups and downs. 
  
  Capture the Flag seems to be the 
 most popular mode online, and for good reason. Featuring a Tribes-like mixture of guns and vehicles, 
 I haven't had this much fun playing CTF since the original Tribes was released back in the late 
 '90s. The networking code seems fairly stable, but occasionaly you will experience the obligatory 
 stuttering or delay of response. One thing I would like to see is something similar to the "consoles" 
 featured in other games such as Unreal Tournament and Quake. Messages typed in by players are quickly 
 off the screen and there is no way to scroll up to see what was said. 
  
  Conclusion 
  
  While Halo is not for everyone, it provides a great single player campaign taking you through 
 the world of 'Halo', and the story is presented in such a way that you always have a sense of why 
 you are doing what you are doing. Once the single player portion is over, the multiplayer will 
 really shine, giving this game unlimited replayability. If nothing else, check out the demo featured 
 on IGN Downloads and give the game a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa_luver
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty good! the story is kinda complicated but eventually u get into it. the graphics 
 r reallly freakin good in this game! the music is really good 2. the only i didnt like wuz the 
 guns. there weren't enuff! but they still looked pretty high-tech so i learned 2 live wit it. i 
 think i liked halo 2 better (mostly cuz the guns) 
  
  this game wasn't one of my favorites. not becuz it wuz bad or anything, but becuz it wasn't really 
 my style. i still like but im more into perfect dark and perfect dark zero (even tho that game 
 sucked) this game is almost perfect but not quite. it's definetly interesting and keeps u occupied 
 but still not one of my faves. 
  
  i would defintely buy the game tho becuz it's definetly a classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghanima_A
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I had never played a FPS before besides a brief jaunt on Darkwatch (which I HATED, but that's another 
 review )
  
  I had never played a PC game either. MY husband got battle for middle earth for me but he hasn't 
 bought the video card I need yet.
  
  That being said I just bought this game today on a whim because EB didn't have Baldur's Gate Dark 
 Alliance II. 
  
  So far I haven't gotten very far in the game but am already Addicted. I love this game. 
  Its 
 great stress relief (shooting aliens is better than shooting the suburban masses) . 
  
  The graphics are good. I'm digging some of the music. And unlike Darkwatch which bored me and I 
 didn't care why the character was doing what he was doing, I find Halo fascinating. 
  I'm not brave enough or good enough ot try it online but just playing all by my lonesome has been 
 pretty f-in awesome.
  
  I totally recommend this game, and I think I want an Xbox now just so I can play Halo 2 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDawq69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  halo one is pretty awsome.
  i love the single player for this one it was way better then the second one, also if it was online, 
 like xbox live not XB connect, then it would have cool multiplayer but playing with 4 friends is 
 ok and lan partys are awsome ive had many of them but this game is full out awsome i still play 
 xb connect with this game from time to time with a couple of my friends because it just never gets 
 old i love it
  when you play this singl player its like your there and i loved it because i mean its a CLASSIC 
 .... very awsome original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Halo follows the adventures of Master Chief, some sort of android or the only soldier the army 
 could afford to equip with proper armor. Regardless, knowing you are a super soldier makes the 
 situations that arise in the game more believable (lone survivor of escape pod crash, anyone?) . 
 
  
  The Halo from which the game takes its title is a ring floating in space above a planet. It's up 
 to you to discover the secret behind it, and although this sounds like your typical sci-fi fluff, 
 the storyline is actually passable and entertaining. 
  Halo would be your average fps were it not for some novel twists. You do have a health meter, but 
 it doesn't last long and your shield is more important. Your shield regenerates after a bit of 
 time if you seek some cover, which forces you to take a more tactical approach at times. It's a 
 great idea and works perfectly. As does the melee button - you can smack enemies upside the head 
 with the butt of your rifle if you get too close, which gives it a great action movie feel. On 
 the other hand, the weapon limitations don't work as well. You can carry only two weapons at a 
 time, which is probably realistic but somewhat limiting. Will you continue along with the rocket 
 launcher or take the sniper rifle instead? Decisions, decisions. While I'm not against spicing 
 up the gameplay with these conundrums, it would have been nice to at least have the weapons separated 
 into small/medium/large, and one of each of those. I even found myself backtracking to get a different 
 'good' weapon. Which leads me to Halo's main problem, its level design. 
  You may at times even sigh in frustration after opening a door and finding what appears to be the 
 same room again. It feels like Halo's length was artificially increased by copy/pasting some room 
 template architecture in between 'interesting' areas. Not only is it a drag to enter the 'same' 
 room again, you also get a feel for where the enemies spawn as the rooms contain 'obvious' places 
 like vents. See, it's not that the rooms are that bad, it's just that they pale in comparison to 
 the other areas the game offers, like the outdoor areas, and any sequence involving vehicles. 
 
  The gameplay itself is exciting and the final levels are well worth the plodding. An adrenaline-filled 
 time-limited dash at the end will really make you feel like you completed an epic, unlike other 
 games that just, well, end. I've heard Halo 2 is somewhat short, so it's possible the designers 
 learned from their mistakes and cut out what wasn't needed.
  The terrain and some of the other graphics are somewhat dated nowadays but frankly if you spend 
 too much time whining about graphics you obviously don't know jack about what makes a game good. 
 Of course, I'm not talking about battling geometric shapes on a black horizon, but if it reminds 
 me of a mountain it's good enough for me. Halo's levels offer multiple 'climates', so you shouldn't 
 get bored with the scenery.
  
  All in all I found that Halo was more rewarding on my first jaunt through. The story was new and 
 exciting and everything fresh, but there aren't enough enemy types or thrilling sequences to keep 
 you glued to your screen on subsequent plays. However, I would recommend it to the FPS afficionado 
 as it's an influential game and you should get some mileage out of the multiplayer too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windofsoccer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  this is a good game overall, good gameplay. graphic is alright. there is a lot of points i don't 
 like about this game. the story mode sucks, i hate when u r battling the flood and one of them 
 shows up in front of ur face when u turn around, is too scary lol. on online is gay when ppl use 
 vecihle, is just gay when they r guarding their base with it, u get kill in a sec. grpahics can 
 improve. but those things improved on halo 2 i think. i will write another view on halo 2 when 
 it comes out and i will compare this to halo 2. have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 48knight48
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 20, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Good game and all but when i bought the full version , finally!, the tgame didnt work , becuase 
 of some strange errors that even on microsoft help didn't have anything on. I had my comp guy come 
 and try to fix it but the same thing kept happening so i thing it was a wasted 30$ that i could 
 have bought a cheaper PS2 game with. So this is just to let you know that there are some games 
 that may not work but i think i just got rotten luck....
  Well cya and have fun playing your games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raider366
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  great game, Multi-player is the best thing in this game, so if you like multi-player pick up this 
 game. Not a hard game! 
  The game is easy, not too hard as long as you play on a normal level, I have not tried it's hard 
 level yet. The game is not too short as are some other games, and will take a bit of time, but 
 not too long. Multi-player is about the best thing in this game, many people on-line always. On-line 
 offers about ten maps but you can download more or make more. There is a custom edition that can 
 be downloaded from this website, which makes the game play more interesting. So if you want a good 
 game that is not too hard, definitely pick up Halo; Combat evolved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidlgs
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Shoot 'Em Up, Kill 'Em Dead game ever made!!! This game and Halo 2 are the best!!! 
 You need to get this game!!!!! I'm just glad it didn't brake when it fell from heaven, 'cause the 
 game is made for Gods! The best part of this game is the multi-player part. Where you run around 
 and kill everyone, Oh YEAH IT's GREAT! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioreaper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, Halo was orginally planned for the PC. But then we all cried when it got ported over to 
 xbox. But as you cansee we got our revange. This is what i think of it.
  The grahpics: When this first came out everybody sucked up to the graphics. They are good enough 
 to not effect the gameplay but still ad to it in ways. However, i find some charecter models confusing. All 
 of the humans looked cartoonish but the aliens were well done.
  Sound: Pretty good. Music can be catchy at times.
  Gameplay: This is were the meat of the review 
 will be. Halo is somewhere between a run-and-gun FPS like Doom etc. and more realistic FPS'S like 
 Operation flashpoint. Bungie have luckly stroke a line between the two. Creating fast but tactical 
 gameplay. However the game can get repetitive sometimes and the design may not seem to make sense.
 
  
  Well thats my opinion on it, i would give it a 8/10. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  When HALO came up, hordes of masses (fickle mob- plebeians) 
  bought the game and indulged in such revelleries. Many a denizen had nestled in their homes a copy 
 of HALO. Now, after a couple of months came HALO for the computer. HALO imports features from XBOX, 
 and has extra features to offer a fine cosmopolitan taste of variety and a certain mood not of 
 Despair!
  HALO graphics are top knotch, polygonal structures and pixels capable of hosting a leviathan of 
 a multitude of color. One can see intricate
  designs such as bullet holes, leaves in the ether, falling snow, missiles flying past, and the 
 advent of chaos all about- carabineer's grace!
  However, at times it may be well to give up high graphics for better performance. After all, wouldn't 
 it be better to slaughter your opponents than seeing each blade of grass?!
  Game play is also good. There is a lot of variety to each scenario of the campaign. One would not 
 find themselves restricted to just one vexillarius but rather to numerous maps, from snow capped 
 mountains and calderas, to coastal areas. The enemies have a good variety, and they also taunt 
 you if you harry them for too long. They may squeal in retreat, and shout words of aid. Cowardice 
 is available in the Covenant it seems.
  You can swim in water, you get to control tanks, warthogs, wield siege guns, fly in the air with 
 banshees, and climb to great heights with colossol towers. Also worthy are the arsenal of weapons, 
 their diversity, and their realistic scale and latitude.
  The sound is good, spurring forth a torrent of aggressive tones when a melee is to have been commenced, 
 or adding suspense in brooding, and ominous settings. HALO for PC is worth its weight in widow's 
 mites, tribute pennies, shekels, oboloi, mina, etc.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowplayinghalo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best online shooters ever, like CS. The main part of this game is multiplayer, 
 because theer is no co-op and the campaign can be very laggy sometimes. The graphics and sound 
 were downgraded a little bit for lag purposes, but other than that this game is as good as the 
 Xbox one. The multiplayer for this game is insanely crazy sometimes. New maps, weapons, and vehicles 
 have been added to make the game even better. However, you should really have high speed internet 
 to play online. Othewise, I would not recommend getting this game. Even if you have Alienware but 
 a 56k dial-up connection, do not get this game because 1. It will lag like hell 2. The graphics 
 still aren't as good as on Xbox, believe it or not. The gamplay online is great. All the new maps 
 have vehicles, making a total of 8 maps with vehicles instead of 2. There are two new weapons, 
 the flamethrower and fuel rod gun. There are also rocket warthogs and banshees for multiplayer 
 only. You should easily be able to find (using filters) at least 7-10 good games with low lag (ping) . 
 16 players can be causing mass destruction in a huge battle with tanks, banshees, warthogs, and 
 ghosts. During a large scale battle (12-16 people fighting) , things can be a bit laggy, but it 
 is so fun i can't decribe it. Random objects, bullets, bodies, vehicles, dust, and blood will be 
 flying everywhere, allies and enemies will be dropping like flies all around you, and vehicles 
 with flag carriers will be getting blown to oblivion all over the map, If yuor computer can handle 
 it, you can even host games. Overall, this is a great game, even if people say it isn't. If you 
 have a nice anough computer, you should definately get this awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusicalGizmo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  After hearing all my XBox buddies rave about this game, I thought it was finally time for me to 
 learn what the buzz was about when Halo came out on the PC. After playing it, I wasn't as blown 
 away by it as the XBoxers were. Perhaps the bar had already been set too high for PC games, but 
 I found Halo to be an entertaining run-and-gun game. The plotline was pretty good, there was ammo 
 aplenty, and it had an online multiplayer component. But I found the graphics to be lackluster 
 and the enemies a little too predictable. Also, there were too many repetitive corridors - not 
 much novelty throughout each level. So, while this is a good game, I think many PC gamers will 
 be slightly disappointed. Perhaps Halo 2 would be a safer bet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Overall good FPS.
  Halo: Combat Evolved is a beautiful game, with some nice graphics.
  You do need a high end pc for this game.
  
  Graphics:
  +OMG looks good but runs awful on 
 a low-medium end pc.
  +Cutscenes and movies are worth it
  +Beautiful game world
  -Characters and stuff dont look that good
  
  Sounds:
  +Overall nice sounds
  +Decent music
 
  +Decent voice acting
  -Stupid enemy sounds make the game sound childish
  -Some stupid weapon sounds
  
  Gameplay:
  This is what halo is about.
  +Good action FPS
 
  +Smart enemies, they dont look that smart but OK
  +Nice vehicles
  +Large Halo campaign
  -Vehicles are hard to steer
  
  Value:
  +Value increases due to the long campaign and multiplay
 
  -Multiplay is not that fun, lots of lag
  
  Tilt:
  +Nice first impression
  +Easy controls
  -Steering vehicles is not that good
  
  Halo a good action FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  How you'll actually play Halo is a result of how your Mark V Master Chief is designed to function 
 as a warrior. Your cyborg's limited cargo space is how things stay nice and balanced. Human weapons 
 include a pistol, the assault rifle, sniper rifle, shotgun and rocket launcher. Weapons you can 
 pickup from the Convenant include a plasma pistol, plasma rifle and the needler (a cool looking 
 delayed reaction weapon that homes in on targets) . Each has a unique rate of fire, ammo capacity 
 and damage potential, which is important because you can only carry two weapons at a time. You 
 can't have doubles of anything so you'd better choose wisely when it comes to the tools of destruction 
 you'll carry. The Sniper rifle for example has 10x zoom and night vision capabilities but it only 
 carries four bullets at a time. Great at long distances, but enemies often like to attack in packs 
 like I said. One of your four concussion grenades or four plasma grenades (courtesy of the Covenant) 
 is usually a better way to go with a crowd of bad guys. You can only carry so much ammo for each 
 weapon so reloading is another great way to make yourself vulnerable in Halo. This is a deliberate 
 move on the part of Bungie to further limit you from dominating the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ownald
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  This game is made for the Xbox. This game was succesful on the box, so they thought: Let's make 
 a pc version. And that was a great fault! Specially the multiplayer mode sucks:
  
  1. With the Xbox it's difficult to aim on the head, with the pc it's easy, too easy. Well lets 
 hide! Nope the aren't any walls or crates to hide and I don't like that. 
  
  2. A banshee "the shees" versus a walking alien, who wins....
  
  3. The deathmatch, or "slayer" 
 mode with more then 10 people really sucks! If aren't in a vehicle, you're death... 
  
  These three things makes the game very bad, so the singleplayer must save the game, and it does! 
 The single player mode is very good, just shoot, move quickly away from the incoming rocket and 
 shoot again! That's great! The offline action is much better then the online one. 
  
  But the Xbox version is much better because the multiplayer mode is much better on the Box ones. 
 Aiming in the head is diffucult, The Shees are still good but not that good and the deathmatch 
 mode works much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The PC version of halo is basically the same as xbox, and allows people who don't have the xbox 
 to play it.***** If you have an xbox and own the copy of halo for it already, you prboably shouldn't 
 get halo for computer because it is basically same thing except no coop mode and graphics are a 
 slight bit worse****Otherwise, i would recommend people to get halo for PC if they don't have an 
 xbox. 
  
  Gameplay: Story line is fun and great, maps are unique and different from each other in, weapons 
 are good, controls are good, reasonable aiming system. Multiplayer is great, although it may lag 
 a bit. No coop.
  
  Graphics: Not as good as xbox sadly, some minor problems.
  
  Sound: Sound is great, almost makes you think your in the game. 
  
  Value: For people who have 
 xbox, no reason to get it. Otherwise, you should get it. 
  
  Tilt: I thought Halo was really fun, not as great as the xbox version, but it sticks with the same 
 great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  We all played first- person shooter games from time to time..
  and no doubt about it .. Halo is definitely a keeper...
  HALO originated from the consel system 
 Microsoft's X-box, and now it can be played on your PC
  HALO MAY BE ANOTHER FIRST PERSON SHOOTER.. HOWEVER, ITS STILL AN AMAZING EXPERIENCE. It offers a 
 wide variety of futuristic weapons.. ranging from the good old pistols and assault rifle... to a 
 plasma rifle.. and even a.... NEEDLER? ( youll see) the story is bold and interestin.. the graphics 
 are impresive.... the sound of the music, voice overs and sound effects are incredible.. This game 
 is about 10 hrs or less of gamplay.. but still is absolutely worth your time
  Try out HALO and be amazed... and just wait for the HALO 2 for the PC.. cause ill wait for it!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWalrusBeast
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has lots to offer. 
  
  The campaign is medium in length but it has the Heroic and Legendary difficulty which are much 
 more challenging to complete than Normal. Its campaign packs a great storyline and it is lots of 
 fun. 
  
  The multiplayer is also great. It has 6 more maps than Halo for PC and it also has the Flamthrower 
 and Fuel Rod Gun. Also the Warthog with a Rocket Launcher is also available. The multiplayer will 
 give you hours after hours of fun and excitement.
  
  Halo is great and it doesn't lag much considering its requirements are pretty low compared to other 
 FPS games. I would definitely get this game as it is a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cervantes_Soul
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  That's right, if you've played a good PC FPS like Unreal Tournament or Battlefield 1942, there 
 isn't anything new to find here. This game was argued as one of the best Xbox games ever made. 
 The way I see it, it worked like this: 
  
  1. Xbox lacks a killer-app.
  2. Xbox has no good FPSes.
  3. Halo changed to release on Xbox first instead of PC.
  4. Halo 
 is launched. It is semi-good.
  5. Xbox fanboys jump all over the semi-decent title and deem it "TEH BEST EVAR".
  6. Halo becomes 
 a big hit due to the overhype it recieves.
  7. Halo is released on PC.
  8. PC gamers know there are better games on PC. PC Halo does poorly.
  
  What if Halo would've 
 been released on PC first?
  
  Anyway, down to the review.
  
  First- The story. The story in this game is a carbon-copy of movies like Starship Troopers and 
 other general science fitction fare. Guess what- aliens have religion. They're out to destroy things 
 and apparently form a cult-like army because of their religion. Wow, this is sounding more like 
 Earth all the time! The story itself is boring and even if you try there isn't much depth to find 
 in the plot. The start of the plot involves your ship finding a large ring-like planet. Nobody 
 knows what it does. You get attacked. You crash. You weep for a better story.
  
  The graphics aren't much about to brag about either. The atmosphere itself is gloomy and ugly. 
 Even the outside areas look extremely artificial. You'll find yourself drudging through the same 
 areas over and over. The most interesting level is only interesting because it takes place at night. 
 The graphics themselves are good, though the art-style is extremely boring.
  
  The audio is perhaps the one thing you'll find enjoyable in this game. The main menu music is amazingly 
 orchestrated, with a movie-like worthiness. Unfortunately, the audio does get repetitive as you'll 
 find yourself listening to the same songs over and over. The audio does a great job setting you 
 up for intense action sequences.
  
  Except the action is very slow. The gameplay in this game is so utterly tiring that I would never 
 have even finished the single-player if it weren't for reviewing this game. The online gameplay 
 is nice, but in no way does it justify the pricetag. Most online matches consist of rocket-launcher 
 and grenade only due to the dullness of the other generic weapons.
  
  All in all, Halo is an okay game. Nothing more, nothing less. But I ask you once more: What if 
 Halo would've been released on PC first? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DazaG
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  Yes. I said it. This game is terrible. It has poor gameplay, poor ideas, basically poor everything. 
 I really don't see what everybody sees in this game. 
  
  From the top. I don't tend to like first person shooters. I don't mind them, but compared to third 
 person shooters, like Star Wars Battlefront 2, they feel like second best. They tend to be overly 
 claustrophobic. Okay, precision is better on first person, but third person shooters offer more 
 adventure and better sense of where you are and where objects and enemies are. 
  
  Another problem I have are the vehicles. First of, when they fall over, the main bloke can flip 
 them back over with no hands. And the controls on them feel lose and made me feel like I wasn't 
 in control. 
  
  My last problem is the lack of original ideas. Group after gruop of the same pathetic enimies coming 
 towards you. O. K., all the enimies are the same on Battlefront 2, but that is based on the films, 
 and the enimies have to be the same one that are in the movies. Halo has no excuse. Metroid Prime, 
 the only first person shooter I love, has loads and loads of enimies, which all have a certain 
 way that they have to be killed. Blasting them to death with the same gun isn't that fun. Third 
 person shooters are allowed to have this consistent enimies and ways of killing, as they are mainly 
 aimed at multiplayer audiences. First person usually aren't. This games multiplayer is better than 
 the single player, but not by enough to save the game.
  
  One of my only good points about the game are the graphics. They are the best I have seen in any 
 game I have personally played on. And, as my friend who owns the game (I don't own it as it is 
 crap, as is the X-Box, which I also don't own) tells me, the graphics in number two are even better. 
 I have no doubts they are. But I don't think the gamelay can improve, but fingers crossed. But 
 graphics can't save this game either. Graphics add nothing to the gameplay, and gameplay is everything 
 in my eyes.
  
  So, in conclusion, I have this to say. This game is nothing but a prettier version of the original 
 Doom. Nothing new. O. K., it is the best looking game I have played on ever. But thats means nothing. 
 
  
  I will try and play halo 2 when I next see my mate, he lives far away, but he comes down once in 
 a while, and I'll probably will review it. I will try and be unbias, and act like I have never 
 played number one. And hopefully the next game can live up to the hype. Hopefully it can be the 
 game I wanted it to be, a cinematic masterpiece. Hopefully, it is better than this one. Cause quite 
 frankly, it would be hard to do any worse. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  as the original, it was awesome! i must say that it was great but Halo 2 for the Xbox i will never 
 find out if it will rock my world because i don't have an Xbox. still if u have a pc this will be 
 really fun even though Halo 2 is only for Xbox. need more words for this review. yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yoyo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo peace 
 out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  What can I tell you...... This game is the best! You play a command chief who's identity is not really 
 know because they don't really give you a lot of details about him. You are supposed to undergo 
 retraining when suddenly some group of aliens come attacking your base, which is the Pillar Of Autumn. You 
 are to find out what is happening in a ring world called HALO. There is something I need you to 
 know is that some of the characters you find in the game are not what they are.
  
  Thee graphics in this game is fantastic with a nice storyline but quite confusing to some. Gameplay 
 is the same,1st-person shooter but with a higher standard you might say, Controls in this game OK, but 
 you may want to change the keys. The guns in this game are way to good. You can even go sniper mood 
 in a handgun. Soundtrack in this game really make this game a lot better and more like a action 
 movie which make your heart beat like crazy.
  
  I gotta say, this game is PERFECT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddyissa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  ok.. first let me get this straight.. if anyone hasnt noticed the reviews of the users have been 
 gettin a bit worse over the days.. did anyone of you people ever stop to think how old this game 
 is???!!?? helloo is anyone out there?? anyway im not here to criticise the other people reviews 
 but just want to tell you guys this much... dont go by those reviews too much cos they dont give 
 you the real deal.. 
  so waht about halo.. is it really what everyone makes it out to be.. DEFINITELY!!. it is by far 
 one of the most enjoyable games i have ever played and still play just for the fun of it.. (i love 
 beating it on legendary gives me a thrill every time) . and why?? now heres what you guys SHOULD 
 BE READING..
  
  storywise this game provides a brilliant and captivating storyline which makes you want to play 
 all the way till the end.. seriously for science fiction it is a brilliant storyline with no loopholes 
 in it.. and a nice teaser at the end too.. ; - )
  
  gameplay - fantastic!! introduces some real cool stuff into this genre.. true it may not have some 
 of the more basic things like a lean function.. (though that wasnt highly popular when halo FOR 
 THE XBOX came out) but with things like shields and motion detectors and very fast fire fights (depending 
 on how much you want to immerse your self into it) the game play comes off as very good. vehicle 
 driving in it though is the major thing i had problems with.. trust me its not the easiest thing 
 to run that wart hog.. or banshee.. or ghost... its a bit of a pain in the neck.. trust me. but 
 if you can live with a few of those itll be jess fine.. after all some of those driving scenes 
 are by far the most memorable.. and AI is pretty good.. specially for that time they are really 
 good as they can and will flank you and pin you down with grenades.. however what is missing is 
 the fact that if you move out fo their area the covenant will not follow you BUT the flood will 
 do that.. beware.. like i said if you immerse yourself in the game and get up front and personal 
 youll get a darn good game.. 
  
  graphics-.. yes a bit dated now.. looks a bit worn down. for today they arent the best.. yet they 
 are good enough to play through.. how ever sadly the enviroments might give you a bit of a deja 
 vu feeling as some of the places feel repeated and the corridors will feel endless.. personally 
 i wished there were more outdoor scenes. cut scenes have all been animated very well and look really 
 good.. and they run for the in game engine.. note that well!!.. and please people.. i have no idea 
 what people are talking about with frame rate issues.. i run my pc on ancient software and at 1024x768 
 resolution with medium to high settings (my card is gforce mx4000 btw) it still runs fine.. sometimes 
 i may lose the green glow when i charge my plasma pistol but most fo the time its good
  
  sound -- ahhh yes!! the most brilliant part of halo.. with superb musical scores which are truly 
 memorable you'll wonder if you are the star of your own movie sometimes.. and voice acting is among 
 the best i have ever heard.. new game old game whatever.. in todays game market.. amongst any genre 
 of games halo's voice acting will be there amongst the best of them.. it'll make you just love 
 some fo the characters.. even sgt jhonson the dude who comes out and commands the people in the 
 first cut scene and orders the people.. master chief is brilliant.. and as for in game sounds they 
 are really good. effects are nice.. grenades give a satisfying BOOM! sound.. rocket launchers and 
 everythin sounds nice.. your enemies sound great too.. specially the grunts (the comic characters) .. 
 listen carefully to their chatter when they run away from you or see you.. sometimes after shootin 
 an elite down the "ogger aaadoo.. jeeeeeaayyy" noise u hear the first time is them shoutin "leader 
 down.. run awaaayyy!!!" hahaha its rather funny those things.. 
  
  and value -- just right.. its brillant and fully worth the buy.. you wont regret it.. atleast rent 
 it out to see for yourself
  
  and thats it.. try it and see for yourself.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellsfire007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Halo, one of the very first games to come out with the XBOX as a launch title brings a new innovative 
 story line, impressive graphics and incredible sound to the gaming world as well as spectacular 
 game play. Possibly one of the newest concepts out there Halo delivers a stunning story line that 
 leaves players wanting more with an interesting plot that normally people wouldnt expect from 
 a first person shooter. This coupled with the amazing graphics that players would mostly expect 
 from a PC system, leaves flawless game play. Halo also delivers on the sound front as well with 
 one of the best video game soundtracks Ive ever heard. With controls that are easy to learn, players 
 can go beyond single player and enter a world of multiplayer gaming. While this game is not supported 
 by the XBOX Live, players will still enjoy gathering with their friends and playing System Link 
 games against each other on some of the most innovative maps some have ever seen. Possibly one 
 of the best first person shooters out on the marker today, any XBOX owner should definitely have 
 this game as part of their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  the story is pretty well immersive, the graphics are above average, and the AI is alot harder than 
 any of the xbox halos. multiplayer levels are alot better than the halo 2 ones, and the mods you 
 can download for it squeeze more fun out when you start to get bored of playing it so much. (trust 
 me, you know it happens) its an awsome game, but i do think its worth around $25 now, the physics 
 are nothing special, but definately not crap. its probably your #1 stereotypical FPS, if not #1, 
 top 5 for sure.
  
  the ledgendary difficulty is so much harder than the xbox version. if you can beat this on ledgendary, 
 im not so sure its worth braggin rights, maybe among other haloists, but youll look about as cool 
 as the guy who plays DDR way too good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roketjack
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Hey first I just wanna say that all you guys saying 'Oh my computer has all this high tech stuff 
 etc but Halo won't play' Well it play perfect on my computer turned up to the max (best quality 
 stuff) and my computers not even that great or I dunno. Even on the Multiplayer It plays perfect.
 
  
  Talking of the multiplayer internet acess required but I assume you have it or how are your reading 
 this reveiw... The multiplayer is a great option. Kill other mastercheifs and mabey even jon a 
 club/clan and have clan wars. 
  I love the basic game play controls are easy to handle and grafic and sound are crystal clear. 
 I had only bought halo sometime in September 2003, but couldnt play it 'till christmas (when I 
 got my own computer with internet dad dont like me playing games on his) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernest132132
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Halo is one of the greatist games ever made, this is the best game ever made! You should check 
 out its graphics. Its really good. The gameplay is so awesome, its great! THe charecters are actually 
 smart and they run for cover when you hit them. Master chief looks really cool! He also fights 
 people and covenent and he has a lot of guts! The flood who are the parasites are really creepy, 
 but they look awesome and amazing for a game! The sound lokks like it came from the future!. this 
 is a really really really really really good game. If you really want this game get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  So finally, a game related to Microsoft, has come to the PC. Yes, we've all heard the nonsense 
 that PC gaming is dead or going to die, but shame on them. As long as there are people and computers, 
 PC gaming is going to live, and it doesn't look like it's going to change. Anyway, the supposedly 
 PC killing game has instead come to the PC and offers what you'd expect from its XBOX twin. The 
 improvement is that instead of limiting yourself to just 3 other players or playing across XBOX 
 live. From what I've experienced, people would rather play with people they can touch for the XBOX 
 rather than XBOX live, I haven't heard good things about it or anything for that matter. The same 
 old, this is old news now. Again, the same thing as you would've experienced if you played it on 
 XBOX, but with the precision of a keyboard/mouse set up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onyxmethod123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  Oh man oh man oh man. I am a serious Halo addict. I've been a shoot-and-kill game addict ever since 
 I played Doom with my dad when I was like five. AH! What a blast. I think that's desensitized me 
 much, oh well. 
  
  I had already played (and beaten) Halo for the Xbox enormous amounts of times already, so I was 
 not a total n00b when it came to the PC game. I had just bought a new Alienware Area-51m (god, 
 what a horrid investment) and looking for some games to play. I had also just grabbed a broadband 
 connection, so I was good for online play. I had heard all the good things about the PC version, 
 so I picked it up. Wow, this post is becoming more of a memoir then a game review. Whatever. 
 
  
  ANYWAY! The PC version was just as polished and as solid as the console version, and even more 
 indepth with the added online play. Yay. It's a year or so later, and I'm still playing it, even 
 with the introduction of Halo 2. 
  
  The graphics and sound are so-so, being one of the older games on the market. But are smooth when 
 you have even a mediocre computer. Woot. 
  
  The online play doesn't have too many features, but thankfully it isn't too laggy, and it is still 
 as smooth as the Xbox Live version. 
  
  That's about all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The game has a massive single player campaign that seems to get underrated. everyone says multiplayer 
 this multiplayer that but nobody seems to care about the single player campaign. The game starts 
 you off as Master Cheif in some sort of device that keeps him frozen. The game starts with him 
 being unfrozen and then trouble starts, the covnent raid the ship and it's up to Master Cheif to 
 stop them. Things get complicated however when Master Cheif is unsuccesful. You are forced to escape 
 to a nearby world, needless to say plenty of covenent come after you. The game is great even if 
 the story isn't all that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  The environment provided by the overall graphical experience and sound is extremely immersive. 
 Not only beyond reproach, its beyond comparison at this moment. Blizzard, and only Blizzard, can 
 claim a rightful challenge.
  
  Graphics
  The texturing is great, for a game released in the previous millennium. The models are blocky, 
 though have great animation.
  
  Spit and shine. Bungie and MS spent the dime and time to make Halo a deep, absorbing experience.
 
  Multiplayer
  Teamkillers galore, and no way to stop them other than joining bunny servers. The sniper rifle 
 is overpowered on open maps. The interface is laughable. This is all made worse by the fact that 
 underneath all the crap is a great multiplayer game. Remove the sniper rifle, add a simple voting 
 interface to boot teamkillers and create a proper chat window  and we might forgive all this co-op 
 nonsense.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MR_BIG_SHOT44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  now before i start, i have play a lot of FPS on the pc, even the orignal halo for the xbox, but 
 his is even better than the Xbox verson!!!!!!, why? ONLINE!!!, even after all these years, halo 
 is still one of the best FPS ever! and if you don't know why, go out run to a store get THIS GAME, 
 PLAY IT AND THEN YOU'LL UNDERSTAND. whats not to love of this game, i mean, the graphics are amazing!, 
 the gameplay withe the mouse makes it easyier to shoot, value is that you'll be playing this for 
 hours on end, sound is also amzing, and of course online, if the online was anybetter..... oh yea! 
 halo 2, but even if halo2 may have better online than halo pc, this is still very fun too play!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neskid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  It confuses me that everybody is giving this game a horrible review. I saw something like a 4.8 
 earlier! This game is the exact same game as the one for xbox. The gameplay is great, it is a fun 
 game that has good physics and fun weapons. The vehicles are exiting too, there are about four 
 or five different vehicles that you can drive/fly. The online mode is good too, it is free and 
 it is tons of fun. The only real problem with this game is the fact that sometimes the framerate 
 will drop if you have high settings on.
  
  In short, Buy it if you don't have an Xbox.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star67
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  If you have a decent PC you will have a great time with this game! This game looks and sounds great, 
 and the story is really great. The guns sound really good, much better than halo 2. The online 
 in this game is really fun and is tha main reason why you should buy this game! Instead of buying 
 halo2 for the multi-player buy this game! The singleplayer and the multiplayer are both really 
 great! Bottom line if you have a PC buy this game, you dont need a high powered computer to play! 
 Trust me I know. And now you buy this game for twenty dollars! Wow this game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadGeorge987
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: 
  
  Here we have one of the best FPS games known to man-kind, but now being ported to the computer. 
 It may seem hard to believe, but this game effectively keeps the good, throws away the bad, and 
 adds a lot more. In Halo, you play as the Master-Chief. a cyborg, as you and the enemy crash-land 
 on the unknown ring-world of Halo, and battle for supremacy. Unlike most FPS games, the plot really 
 does thicken and the player just keeps wanting more...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is very solid in Halo. You have your mix of human and alien weapons, each with their 
 own uses. Then you have your power-weapons like the sniper, rocket-launcher, and fuel rod gun, 
 and even shotgun. However, the beauty of Halo is that all of these weapons are countered by the 
 human pistol, something easy to find. 
  Although some think the pistol is overpowered, they must realize that they'd be complaining about 
 the rocket-launcher or shotgun if the pistol wasn't that way. The weapon systems are great, balanced, 
 and don't get repetitive, because you can always try new combos. 
  The only downside is the web-coding of this game. In multiplayer online, you must usually lead 
 your shots a little bit with every weapon. The worse the server, the more you lead. But luckily, 
 there is a good filter system, so finding a good server is not hard to do. Again, the shot leading 
 system is somewhat criticized, but really what it does it make the game harder. One might even 
 argue that it makes the game more realistic. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The game looks beautiful on the highest graphics, a perfect 10. However, having this game on the 
 highest possible graphics online is not a good choice, as you will probably lag more, and have 
 to lead your shots more. Although this category should be a 10 for graphics, it must be a 9 for 
 practicality.
  
  Sound: 
  
  Like the original, Halo PC still wows its players with excellent voice overs, and excellent music 
 to set a proper mood. The alien voices are really awesome as well. You have your high-pitched comical 
 grunt all the way to your serious, deep-voiced elite. Fabulous sound, it always has been the Halo 
 series' strongest point. 
  
  Value: 
  
  This game is one of the few games I can go to and play campaign mode any time -- even though I've 
 beaten it 6 times. It's simply that good. But multiplayer is where you will spend most of your 
 time. Remeber, Halo PC comes with 6 new maps, and now you can play all of those plus those original 
 13 maps you couldn't play on the xbox version. 
  Another great use for this game online are klanwars. By going and registering at klanwars. com, 
 you can engage in ranked battles with other members of the Halo community. The klanwars experience 
 really is something unique and special to the Halo: PC community, and should be inquired by anyone 
 who already owns this game.
  The community is still strong, although as of now (christmas 2005) I think it's slowly starting 
 to die. Not to worry yet though -- at any given time there are at least 2000 players online. 
 
  Complimented by the lowered price, this game has a lot of value to it, which is important in an 
 FPS. 
  
  In conclusion...
  
  This game is one of the best FPS games I have ever played, and the value on it is simply great. 
 For those without an xbox, this is your ticket to one of the best FPS games ever made, Definitely 
 worth the buy, especially if you like shooters, science fiction, or just a great game that has 
 won many awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DYNASTY666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 4:26 am PT
Review:  The history of halo, bungie a small design company with an ingenious idea of a game involving a 
 war between to different races, the Covenant and the Humans. The initial plans where to exploit 
 the tremendous opportunity's that personal computers showed so clearly, but instead a dark cloud 
 overtook there ideas and instead replaced them with ideas of the "console" despicable. finally 
 after 2 years of waiting and dreaming of this almost perfect game coming to computers it did, and 
 that is where our small little history lesson ends. 
  
  Wow, your thinking as your loading up halo for your computer for the very first time, an almost 
 perfect alignment of music and graphic animations, then you load up the undeniably good campaign, 
 the minute you see the master chief aka spartan117 rise from his chambers you notice how shiny 
 he is thanks to shader 2.0 instead of the 1.1 used in the xbox version. You run through the Pillar 
 of Autumn, with an increased heart rate as parts of the ship are blowing up all around you, as 
 you finally make it to the bridge you get a nice warm flashback of what has happened so far. 
 
  
  As you continue on to the exhilarating levels and challenges you notice a tab on the main menu 
 that says "Multi player", you immediately think it must be some sort of lan? But no your wrong 
 its a whole online community of people like you amazed at that amount of servers and gametypes 
 right at the tip of your fingers. you join a server on the map bloodgulch who hasnt heard of bloodgulch, 
 but what is this? a banshee? no way you walk over to it "Press E to enter vehicle" your heart races, 
 the banshee a vehicle that wasn't touchable on the xbox version, yet now your able to access new 
 weapons and vehicles that wern't available on the xbox version.
  
  So far i have logged around 2500 hours into this game and it never puts me to sleep for lack of 
 better terms, and thats only logged hours ive been playing for 3 years straight and i have pretty 
 much mastered the game. 
  the shader 2.0 really livens up this old dead bird, also the new weapons and vehicles make it a 
 totally new game. There is also no end to how good this game is you think it will get boring after 
 you master it like you do games like counter strike, but no once you get to where you feel you 
 mastered it you see someone thats better then you and you feel compelled to reach that level of 
 gameplay.
  
  overall this is the best game i have ever played, the campaign is simply amazing, the mulitplayer 
 also simply amazing.
  
  ~Royal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedHotMustang
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Halo is an awsome series this games has outstanding gameplay and music!
  I play the game on Multyplayer mostly ....... I JUST POOOOOWWWWNN ASS!!!! this game is worth every 
 penny, dime and nickle.... it is oooo soooo good the xbox version sucks because of the fact of no 
 multyplayer =C any ways i played both on the PC and on the XBOX. (PC KICKS ASS=) The multiplayer 
 is nealy totaly custimizable like the Edit game types where you can create a game to host on line 
 there are good no-cd patches ( these can be found at www. gamecoppyworld. com and/or www. gameburnworld. com 
 and/or cracks. am.
  
  The setting are verry good not perfect as i like them but they are good!
  
  I GIVE THE GAME 
 A TEN OUT OF TEN I DONT USUALY GO THIS HIGH BUT THIS GAME DESERVES IT 100% . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fikretpasic
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved for the PC has a lot going for it, due to it's great graphics, relatively 
 low system requirements, and technology of the game. The game will run just fine on a PIII system, 
 even at 1024x768 resolution and high quality settings (you still need a graphics card with at least 
 128MB of memory) . The graphics are well detailed and highly immersive. Some of the outdoor scenery 
 is almost breathtaking, though the physics engine could use some improvements (if I hit a rock 
 with a rocket, it should disintegrate) . Graphics aside, the AI is also very good... at least when 
 it comes to the Covenant warriors. They'll duck, hide behind objects (and each other) , and try 
 to outflank you. The Flood, on the other hand, is a different story. It seems that the only strategy 
 they have is to run straight into you. This and the endless corridors in "The Library" make this 
 part of the game feel very, very repetitive, to the point where I was tempted to stop playing. 
 But, the inability to wield more than two weapons at a time, does keep the game challenging and 
 necessitates a good strategy, making the game challenging and interesting.
  Overall, this is a good pick for the fans of the Sci-Fi shooters, with a good initial curiosity 
 factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewy942
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I have played a few PC online games and this one is perfect for thoughs people who dont like twenty 
 or thirdy people in one server. If you just want a game that doesnt take much maintenance then 
 this game is perfect. If your a decent PC gamer then the campain wont be challenging enough. For 
 only $20 (plus tax) this game is perfectly priced. There are some cool mods and stuff like that 
 for the game as well. There are some extra multiplayer levels when you buy the PC version of halo. 
 And you also get a rocket warthog. The vehicles are also great fun while playing online. the vehicles 
 add an extra challenge to the game. If your looking for fun but no maintenance then this game is 
 great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traumahawk_2003
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is an awsome first person shooter, with good graphics, vehicles, tons of weapons and levels. 
 It is challenging enough to keep me playing for hours and hours at a time, without tiring of it. 
 I would recomend this to any level of player that enjoys first person shooters. Spend the money, 
 I promise you won't regret it. I just gave the game to my neighbor to play and he loves it as much 
 as I did. It is appropriate for all age levels as well. It's a shame that it hasn't been released 
 as Halo 2 yet on PC. Although I enjoy the XboX and other formats my PC is where it's at. Let's 
 all hope that sometime soon they release Halo 2 for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevanVercetti
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  The sounds... the Atmosphere... the Graphics
  
  This game is so much fun... So engaging, , definitely and awesome first person shooter. The story 
 isn't that bad but the combat is what really counts. When you really get the feel of the game its 
 so realistic.
  
  Sometimes when to many enemies load it begins to run slowly, but that only happens for a moment.
 
  The game is slightly overrated, but still great. if you love shooting you should definitely get 
 this game. For PC the graphics aren't as good and the controls take some getting used to. Like 
 with all PC games, but if you don't own and Xbox this is a great alternative to going over your 
 friends house everyday.
  
  Multiplayer is another great feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original halo. In fact it was one of my favorite games of all times. But Halo on the 
 PC just doesn't work well.
  
  First of all there are a few good things with the game. The first being the that the hole campaign 
 was transfered over to the PC. Although no knew missions were added there did seem to be a lot 
 more allies in the single player. The game also does look a bit better at the higher resolutions. 
 They've also added online multiplayer and added several new maps.
  
  Well that was the good things. First of all co-op play, one of the best things in the game, has 
 been removed. The graphics do look better but they are two years old and can't compare to anything 
 else that is out. Also the multiplayer is laggy and has become unbalanced. The first halo had great 
 balance, but now with the inclusions of banshees and the fuel rod canon, that balance is gone. 
 The banshee can just tap you and you are instantly killed, and the fuel rod gun is like a semi-auto 
 rocket launcher with 4 rounds.
  
  If you really want to see what Halo is like buy the game and have some friends over because this 
 is not the Halo I know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  
  I play PC Halo quite a bit despite shortcomings. I would rate the single player game a 4 out of 
 5. It loses a point for some repetitive play and its short length. I would like to concentrate, 
 however, on the multiplayer game, which I rate a 3 out of 5 -- and that is being generous. If you 
 were to list the "glitches" in Halo PC it will add up into the hundreds. Yes, it's fun, but it 
 is VERY buggy. 
  
  There are so many problems with Halo PC that it would take pages and pages to outline each one. 
 I will list a few below. 
  
  1) The year is 2552. I guess we haven't made much progress on vehicle design and operation. The 
 warthog overturns way too easily. The ghost and banshee get "stuck" on corners. A banshee going 
 full speed is stopped dead by a branch of leaves and it sounds like it hit a rock. Okay.
  
  2) In the PC game, we often get the "mystery of the half-flipped vehicle." Shoot a warthog from 
 a distance with a heavy weapon and you will often see the vehicle begin to flip over only to instantly 
 right itself and continue going as if nothing at all happened. Okay.
  
  3) Forced Flag pick-up in CTF. If you get too close to the flag, you are FORCED to pick it up, 
 even if you don't want to. This nullifies your weapons. It would be much better to have to press 
 an "action key" to pick up the flag. Many a people have been killed because they accidentally picked 
 up the flag.
  
  4) The "reacquire flag" bug. If you have the flag and want to drop it in order to shoot an opponent, 
 good luck. As soon as you drop it, you will instantly pick it up again. Even if you try to throw 
 it, you will pick it up again. Even if you run forward and throw the flag and then back up, you 
 will pick it up again. Many a people have been killed because they reacquired the flag when they 
 didn't want to.
  
  5) Are rockets propelled by rubberbands? They go so slowly, you'd think so. 
  
  6) Want to 
 drive a ghost or warthog in a base. Better be careful. Even though your head height in the vehicles 
 is many feet below the ceiling, you can't see. You get all kinds of vision interference. Hard to 
 steer or shoot if you can't see. 
  
  7) So how did you get up there? That's what you might ask when you see people in the sky. Yeah, 
 it's a "sealing glitch" that can be taken advantage of, if you know how. 
  
  8) You can usually make a kill with one rocket, or two fuel rod hits. But if you really want a 
 powerful weapon, use your fist. You can follow an opponent up a ladder and hit him in his feet 
 and instantly kill him. A hit in a foot is more powerful than a rocket or fuel rod or sniper rifle. 
 Yeah, that makes sense. 
  
  9) What about the dud granades? Yep... sometimes you can throw a nade and it won't blow... this 
 often happens if you die after you throw the nade. Not all nades are the same strength either, 
 it appears. Sometimes a nade will blow right at the feet of an opponent and won't kill. Other times, 
 it blows 20 ft. away and WILL kill. Never really know what you're getting.
  
  10) The "run-over" glitch. Very frustrating glitch that occurs when you head in a vehicle straight 
 for an opponent only to find when you hit him, he will disappear and reappear about 20 feet away 
 unharmed. Sometimes this can happen over and over again as you try to hit him. Another glitch is 
 when you apparently DO hit an opponent and you see him fly in the air about 50 feet -- only to 
 suddenly disappear and reappear on the ground unharmed. Some will say this is a "lag" problem, 
 but I find this happening all the time with my 1.5 mb line at under 75 ping. 
  
  11) What is all this Tking! It appears there is no adequate method to deal with it. I'd say at 
 least half of all games have Tkers on them. And if that's not bad enough, there are the spys.
 
  
  12) The spies change teams for a short period to see what the defenses are or to find where a flag 
 is hidden. Then they change back and let their teammates know what's up.
  
  13) Watch out, you may get the boot. You might be thinking I'm talking about Tking too much. Nope. 
 If you're "too good" the admin of the server may just boot you right off. A lot of games are "stacked" 
 so that the admin's team will always win. They just boot the good players off the opposing team. 
 Happens all the time. On a bad day, I can get booted off five or more times by the admin just because 
 I have "too many kills" or I killed the admin. Okay.
  
  14) Stupid Rules. Sometimes you just have to laugh at some rules people make up. "No driving vehicles," 
 "No using fuel rods or rockets" "No camping." That one is the funniest. You CANNOT play defense... it's 
 not fair.. LOL. "This is only an offensive game. No defense is allowed." LOL. When that is said, 
 just ask what "camping" is. You will probably get an answer like. "It's standing still." Or "It's 
 staying in a location too long." So you can't stop running or hide behind a rock or a tree... or 
 wait for a ride. It gets so ridiculous that you just have to laugh at the stupidity of the players 
 on your server. 
  
  15) The "following behind" glitch. When facing an opponent guns are much more accurate. It is possible 
 to kill an opponent with full health and shield in 3 pistol shots -- even from 50 ft away. But 
 running "behind" an opponent is completely different. I have run behind an opponent as close as 
 only 10 feet away and pumped more than 30 rounds into his head without a kill. Doesn't seem to 
 matter if they're head shots or body shots. No kill. 
  
  16) The "stuck in the wall" glitch. Sometimes a tank or warthog or ghost can break the plane of 
 a wall and get "stuck." Once stuck, there is no way to break it loose. The vehicle is lost. One 
 game I played had no less than five vehicles all stuck in walls. Again, poor design. 
  
  Since I'm running out of time, I'll stop here. It may sound to you as if I don't like Halo multiplayer. 
 That's not true. In fact, I still play it more than any other online game. However there are so 
 many bugs and issues with it that, even though it is usually fun, I have to knock off a few points 
 for some of the shortcomings. Some might argue that ALL games have some glitches. True... but not 
 to this extent. These bugs are mostly confined to the PC version of Halo, not the Xbox version. 
 Hopefully, Halo 2 for PC with be much less buggy. I rate it a 3 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombshell_Bob
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big Halo fan but I don't have an xbox, I'm waiting for the xbox 360 so i can play Halo 3. 
 Anyways, I saw that I could play halo for my macintosh. Instantly I went and bought it, I was freaking 
 out, i turn it on and it plays that
  chorus that is awesome. but then i realize something, the earth side of the halo has somewhat crappy 
 graphics, oh no. I go inside the game and the graphics reek they use the same pattern for textures 
 like grass so it looks like carpet! And the people look the same they tried to make them blink, 
 so suddenly and slowly a flesh coloured sheild goes over they're eyes, (which are the kind that 
 are panted on to the face so they look un-3D) Then they tried reflection on Master Chiefs visor, 
 it's just a bunch of pixels that look really bad in close ups same with the mouths they look like 
 they're chwing pieces of gum and they're out of sync with what they're saying. But for halo 2, 
 really i guess you don't need it. you could just ask a buddy or something. Multiplayer isn't as 
 great as it once was, because only a few people play it now, and usually they're just bomb fests 
 now you get spawned killed all the time, if you want good multiplayer Call of Duty or Call of Duty 
 2. It's fun but $30 is just too much for this game, save it. Agian, Multiplayer gets boring really 
 fast you will love it, then hate it , then love it, then hate it reeeeaaaallly bad. Textures like 
 cliffs and were snow meets rock wall are just a jagged line no blending, grass is the same print 
 over and over agian. It just gets boring in campaign because the graphics reek so you get bored 
 fast. Save your money to make someone else happy, I have warned you, this game should go away with 
 return to castle wolfenstien. really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_fang_kid7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome. I love the fact of how easy it is to play with the keyboard and mouse. The 
 Gameplay is just amazing, you go around throughout level after level, and it never gets old or 
 boring. The online expierience is probally the best, tons of people play all over the world so there 
 is plenty of people on whenever your on. The graphics are good only if you have a good video card, 
 otherwise the edges of guns, and builings and stuff look kinda fuzzy. The sound is specially good 
 even if you don't have the best sound card. I think this gme is underrated, on the PC, because 
 they say that it is better on the Xbox. Well this is not all that true because the graphics might 
 not look as good as it does on the xbox, but the online part is free, and is easier to play on 
 the PC. If you like fast paced, first person shooters this game is for you. I bought it when it 
 costed $30 and it was worth every penny, I would have even paid $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS_Killer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost the same as its brother on the xbox. Though you do have new weapons like a 
 flamethrower and the fuel rod gun but thats mostly it. Also you now have the multiplayer online 
 option. This game is a very good game but you need a good video card to get the best out of it. 
 Although this game has its weakness it also has many things that make it a great title to play 
 and own. So if you have $20 lying around and you are thinking about buying a game dont hesitate 
 to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:30 am PT
Review:  Halo started out on xbox and grew from there. it was the # 1 game out there for a while and still 
 is thought of that way by many who play its fantastic multiplayer features. Definatly think about 
 geting this game, because it is a must see. so this blog seems late for halo.... but most people 
 dont undestsand halo was better than halo 2..... my opinion longer story in halo. but bungie has 
 the capabilities to make agame that is really hard to put down and not remember that ur wasting 
 precious time not playing halo or halo2 or the new upcoming halo expected to hit shelves spring 
 of next year... also when ps3 comes out looking to give xbox 360 a run for it money. well get back 
 to ur nearest gameing store and pick up halo.... what are u waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spez2can
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  I reloaded Halo last week after a couple of years to see how it held up. To be honest, I'm immensely 
 disappointed and felt the same way when it was first released on the PC.
  
  Firstly this game was a huge mistake for the PC IMHO. Originally being developed for the PC and 
 switched to be the lead product for the original Xbox launch, the game was already past it by the 
 time it reached our boxes.
  
  The story is moderately interesting but the gameplay in truth is pretty tame. If it had been released 
 when originally intended and if it had been specifically designed for the PC, I think the game 
 could have realized a lot more potential.
  
  As it is, for the graphics and gameplay it requires far too high a spec PC (considering the Xbox 
 spec too!) but regardless of the changes they made for the PC release it feels like a console port, 
 looks like a console port and plays like one. 
  
  I'm glad I played it once, but it's longevity is pretty low. I'd much rather load up my copy of 
 Call of Duty, or even Half Life and play through them again - they're much more fun, involving 
 and far more rewarding.
  
  I think the hype very much carried the game on it's release. It's not bad, it never was, but it 
 sure isn't a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allsniper0302
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  When I installed this game I went strait to multiplayer and started online becouse I already knew 
 the story mode. This game ran great online. So who ever complained that they had a good computer 
 and the game still laged are a bunch of babies. Mainly becouse im running an AMD athlon with a 
 Gig of RAM. and a geforce 5500 256ram card, and this game runs perfect for me. 
  So whoever is complaining needs to stop crying.
  
  Just so you know doom 3 is an awsome game 
 also. Have a nice daa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a y. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokobo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  After giving the xbox version a thorough workout after it came out, i badly wanted to play this 
 game on PC. Even on the second play through of this game its still unbeleivably entertaining. Everything 
 about this game is so great its hard to comprehend. 
  
  The graphics are equal to or better on the PC if you have the right hardware, and i felt this game 
 was great to look at with the huge outdoor and indoor environments. 
  
  The gameplay is superb and offers just enough for it not to be overloaded with stuff you have to 
 do. Along with this comes some great enemy AI whcih always offers a challenge. 
  
  I think the game was well optimized for the PC also. There isnt much of a selection in weapons, 
 but all of them are well designed and are great fun to use, especially the pistol. There isnt much 
 you cant like about this game on the PC apart from the mulltiplayer. Ive found some of servers 
 have reeaaaaaaally bad lag and this can be annoying at times, but mostly the performance is good. 
 
  
  Even after the xbox this game is still a great experience on the PC for anyone who liked the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iownhalo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  Halo is a classic FPS. It is great with all the awesome weapon choices, bad guys, and characters 
 that are put into play. Lot's of people who play it say it has no plot. It kind of seems like it 
 too, but believe me, it has a plot. Read the books and you'll know it does. Halo 2 came out and 
 I was psyched! I can't say Halo 2 is better or worse than Combat Evolved, but I can say this. No 
 matter how many Halo games they make, no matter how good the graphics are, no matter what system 
 it's on, Halo: Combat Evolved will always be awesomely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caesarmoridon
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  This game should have been named horns not H. A. L. O. because it is lame like the devil. It is shiny 
 looking and fake. The controls on both systems are retarded. I is the most over rated game of all 
 time in my opinion. It is made by microscrewyou too as if you needed another reason to hate it. 
 It is too easy to play. My 4 year old can play it. It has no spirit or quality. I basically is 
 the biggest video game waste of my money including scoobydoo2. I rather play online puzzle games 
 than this piece of work. Lame, LAme, LAMe, LAME! I think I have reached the word limit. I am done 
 wasting my time. Don't waste yours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGAKILL
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  One of Bungie's main reason of why they put Halo on the PC is because they wanted to have online 
 play for Halo 1, it was too late to make Halo 1 work for live so they made it for the PC. Although 
 the PC version is identical to the Xbox version except that now you can use the fuel rod-is that 
 the online part of Halo wasn't like it should. The problem is with aiming. When playing online 
 you have to aim a little to the right or to the left, it might not seem like something I should 
 make a fuss about but it is a problem. When it comes to playing Halo for Xbox and Halo PC online 
 there is a big difference. It is almost impossible to shoot someone with a sniper rifle. I have 
 gotten pretty good with the pistol though. Bungie has the ability to fix this problem but they 
 chose not to. That aiming problem leads to making it look like you hit someone or something but 
 in the game you really didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  Halo.................... what more can i say because the name says it all. 
  
  The game has a great story mode witch tends to become boring after a while because some levels 
 have a very similar "copy and paste" look to it, and on a lower difficulty setting you feel pretty 
 much invincible because of your shield. This changes on harder difficulty settings. Also you can 
 get different ending if you play on a harder difficulty.
  
  The multi-player mode is the best part of the game. There are a large quantity of maps to choose 
 from. Also you can play different modes such as capture the flag, team slayers and so on. I'l let 
 you discover them for your self because you should definitely have to get this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twig828
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  okay halo made me fail every single class last year and my parents were pissed that is how good 
 it is the single player is good but the multiplayer is where it is at 
  You can play for hours and its not that hard to get good at soon. THe comunity its nice full of 
 mature no **** as 12 year olds. so if you are thinking of buying a game let it be halo do not hesitate. 
 
  The single player is fun and can be enternaing but after a while you just want to hop right in 
 and with clan leagues all over the internet its really easy to maek a team with friends. THe competition 
 is great. Let me tell you tis i didn't have a social life at all or sucked at school until my father 
 broke it in two. BUT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  I've always said timesplitters was better than halo. Well i guess i was wrong. It's only a little 
 better. At least on pc. Xbox version sux. There's online play which is awesome and annoying at 
 the same time. Annoying cuz of those snipers and campers who always manage to pick you off and 
 piss you off. And friendly fire kills. But these are just nusances that the game isn't in fault 
 for. The game can really lag after too much multiplayer time resulting in many cheap deaths. The 
 vehicles are cool and fun to cruise in along with some new guns (like flamethrower) . The single 
 player is exactly the same as the xbox version. The graphics look better and the controls are sharper 
 and the music is as epic as ever (screaming jammican guys included) . Most halo fans will come for 
 multiplayer but new people (like me) are in it for all the amazing content. And there's a lot of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stah1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The game Halo was good multipalyer futurelist combat stragic. I think it is a lot better than xbox 
 version of this one. The graphic look pretty decent not the best one out there now but it is a 
 classic right now. Sound has voices, good sound effects, and pretty much 3D all round. The storyline 
 get pretty old after while playing it. My favorite of the game was the banshee and hogs. Pretty 
 like driving around in those machince. If there was one thing that would change about this game, 
 it would be more multiplayer maps on it or customize like Unreal editors to make more maps on it 
 base on your own creations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wej_accept_it
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Halo Combat Evolved was easily the best game when Microsoft relesead its Xbox console. Since then 
 few games, on any platform, have come close to the level of magnifiance achieved by H: CE. 
  Even fewer have surpased it.
  
  Halo is a sc-fi action game where players assume the role of 
 a cyborg super soldier known only by his rank, Master Chief. He is one of many super soldiers called 
 SPARTANS, created by humanity to be the ultimate fighting machine. And it seems that for a while 
 the SPARTANS were unbeatable until humans ran afoul of a fellowship of alien races known as the 
 Covenant who view mankind as an insult to thier gods and must all be killed. In the war against 
 the Covenant the SPARTANS are the only thing that keep humanity alive, but gradually they are all 
 wiped out, one by one, until only their toughest, Master Chief, is left alive.
  Halo begins with the MC's battle ship, the Pillar of Autum fleeing a battle with a huge Covenant 
 force. The Autum lures the Covenant fleet away and makes a blind jump to lightspeed in an attempt 
 to lure the enemy away from earth. They succeed, but end up lost deep in space with an army of 
 Covenant not far behind. And they find an artifiacially created ring world.
  The game begins with MC being awoken to find the Autum under heavy attack and about to crash land 
 on the ring world. From there, the fun begins.
  
  Halo's comabt is unlike any game before it. Indoor levels are tight quarters with tension filled 
 gunfights, whle the majority of the game is outside, with huge levels that see the MC taking down 
 entire armies of Covenant troops either on his own or with help from Marine allies. 
  Halo's action is so enjoyable because the game is filled with great features. The MC has a rechargable 
 shield. When you get hit, the shield goes down. If it reaches zero you take damage and die quickly, 
 but if you duck down for a few seconds the shield swiftly recharges to full and you can get back 
 into the fight. This means that even if your health is at just one hit away from death, your shields 
 are still there to keep you playing. Then there are the weapons. The humans have some standard 
 FPS guns, the assault rifle, the pistol, the shotgun, sniper rifle and rocket launcher are all 
 easy to identify and use. The Covenant on the other hand wield drastically different plasma weapons. 
 There are standard pistols and rifles, then there's the Needler which fires explosieve tracking 
 darts. Or the fuel rod gun, a fast firing grenade launcher. The weapons work well because the game 
 only lets you carry two at a time. This invokes careful strategic thinking about what you pick 
 up to play with. Then there's the nature of some weapons, Covenant fuel rod guns can't be used 
 in he singleplayer game, while the plasma pistol and rifle can't reload, once you exhuast the ammo 
 you need to switch it for a new weapon. 
  Then there are Halo's grenades. There's the frag grenade and the plasma greande. The frag explodes 
 a second after it lands, but it can be bouced or rolled into various areas. The plasma grenade 
 has a longer timer, but it sticks to enemies and vehicles, but not the environment although it 
 wont roll or bouce like the frag grenade. Like on the Xbox the greandes are thrown with a quick 
 hit of seperate button. Here's the right mouse, while the left fires your current weapon. Control 
 Genius!
  
  Halo's next big thing is its enemies. The Covenant are a fearsome bunch. First there's the Grunts, 
 small and really quite weak they scare easy and you'll often see them hanging around the tougher 
 Elites for protection. Kill the Elite with a group of Grunts nearby and they'll panic and run. 
 Of course killing an Eilte is often a challenge. These guys are powerful, smart, fearless and have 
 their own recharging energy shields. This means that you can blast away at an Elite and they'll 
 still come back for more and more punishment. You have to drain their shields and then unload a 
 bit more ammo to kill them. Of course, take their shields and they'll run away to seek cover. I'll 
 say this now and I mean it, Halo has some of the best AI ever seen in a game. There are plenty 
 of other enemies, like the mammoth Hunters and the sneaky Jackals as well as the Flood but I'd 
 be ruining the game's story if I told you about them all.
  
  Vehicles are great part of H: CE. There's tanks, the warthog jeep, the Covenant Banshee flyer and 
 Ghost as well as a Covenant mortar tank. The game lets you experiance all of them except the Covenant 
 tank and they are all great fun to drive. With the warthog and tank you can drive them and your 
 marine allies will ride shotgun, its pity you can't do this the other way round, but its still 
 fun. The human vehicles for some reason don; t take damage, while in them you can, the veicles themselves 
 are invisible so hitting them grenades and rockets sends them flying. The Covenant vehciles take 
 damage though and explode in huge fireballs, although in multiplayer all vehicles are indestructable.
 
  
  Halo's multiplayer got a cult following on Xbox. The downside was that there was no surpport for 
 onlineplay, this didn't stop people from enjoying the seemingly endless thrills to be had from 
 though. Now on PC players can frag over the internet and damn if it isn't awesome. Games are easy 
 to start and modify and there's a large amount of different play options. Expect to see hundreds 
 of servers online with CTF being the prime favourite. Its just a pity that there's no co-op. It 
 was a great part of the Xbox Halo and makes the whole experiance a little less then what it could 
 have been. Grnated in the long run I'd prefer online play to online co-op so it evens out. The 
 only thing missing from the multiplayer is in the inclusion of bots, with Halo's killer AI they 
 would have made a great great improvement on an already brilliant multiplayer experiance. Hopefully 
 some user mods will fix this.
  
  Graphics and audio in Halo are pretty much the same as Xbox. The sound is top notch with some good 
 dialogue, plenty of meay effects for when in combat and the music itself is great with some sharp, 
 fast and addictive pieces. The music clearly had a lot of work put into and soundtrack would give 
 most Hollywood movies turn for pause. Its just a pity that the music is onyl heard at certain points 
 in the game, a feature when the music comes and, similar to what we've seen in Splinter Cell would 
 have been great.
  
  Overall Halo remains one of the best action games around. The MC is a sure to go down in history 
 as a legend amoung gaming protagonists, he's enigmatic with a mysterious background we'll never 
 know much about. But we know he's something speical, when you approach other charecters in te game 
 they say things, 'Wow, its him" or "The Chief, we're saved!". He's got a rep as a tough as nails 
 ass-kicker and it works great for the game's atmosphere. Halo has dozens of great touches, the 
 difficulty I should mention comes in four flavours, Easy, Normal, Heroric and Legendary. The latter 
 is going to test even the toughest gamer as the game throws you against numerous enemies all of 
 them tough and smart. Trust me, beating just one level, any level, of this game on legendary is 
 an achievment. Finishing the final mission or some of the really long levels will take hours but 
 you'll feel like you've earned something when you finally complete them.
  Basically if you enjoyed Half Life and want a shooter that ups the ante to a whole new level of 
 brilliance, get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skater02468
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit I love the game, I took a week of work to play it on Xbox on release day. I didn't sleep 
 much over the next 4 days, reaching for the "Red Bull" more than once. I was playing it in a foriegn 
 language, and I spent the whole time on my feet, because otherwise you can't dodge the bullets... 
 I actually got lost in the swamp, and my first thought was to find higher ground, so I could see 
 where I was, It's that immersive. 
  
  But that was then, this is now, and I have to say that Gearbox have made hard work out of what 
 should have been an easy port. There is some popup, the textures are overbright, the models appear 
 to be lower res, more angular, and there is significant slowdown at very high res. Once you turn 
 all the detail on, and trick out your card. Those, and the lack of co-op, (one of the Xbox's strength's) 
 are the bad points...
  
  The good points are that it's, well, Halo... It is the best game I've ever played in some 25 years 
 of playing games. It has both style & substance. I don't play multiplayer, don't play online, so 
 to me, the single player game is what counts, and here Halo has it in spades. Two years later my 
 friend and I are still regularly talking about this game over a beer in the steakhouse. More than 
 anything else Halo is "an experience" it's as close to gaming nirvana a I've ever got, to the point 
 that I can feel the rush as I stare at the Halo2 demo. Knowing, that at some point it will be me 
 stepping off the pelican and into harm's way again...
  
  If anything I think somebody at Microsoft ought to camp out at Gearbox and demand that they make 
 good on Halo's promise. I believe they owe it both to Bungie, and to the players, to see it done 
 right. This is a bad port of a wonderfull game, to the point where you may be better off buying 
 an Xbox to play it, (and Halo2) than having to suffer through what I hope are just teething troubles. 
 
  
  But be in no doubt, this is a truly great game, and bad port aside that's what I think people should 
 know. If you haven't already, you should play Halo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBitt
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Halo is popular for a reason. It is a great game for single player with a decent story mode and 
 multiplayer is even better. As most people know, Halo is basically aliens creature things with 
 very little brains vs humans, which basically means you, 'MasterChief" as whenever you get human 
 teammates they find a way to croak off and/or get in your way. As far as graphics go, they are 
 good but not realisitic looking, as they are not really supposed to. 
  
  The campaign mode has only ten levels but they are all fairly long. Unfortunately, the levels are 
 fun but they also drag on and on and on and you will begin to wonder if you are in the same place 
 as you walk into the same corridor as the past seventeen that you went through. Still, gameplay 
 is still satisfying and it doesn't take that long to get a good grip on Halo's campaign mode in 
 an easier difficulty setting.
  
  Multiplayer mode is where the best part of the game is. You can play across a large quantity of 
 maps, which on some servers are even modded to add things, such as sky bases, that were not original 
 in the developer's version of the map. There are also several different modes of play, from things 
 such as capture the flag and team slayer to racing in 'hogs', which are basically jeeps with guns 
 on them. 
  
  I have (sadly) spent hundreds of hours on the multiplayer mode on basically one server and it is 
 so good and it never seems to get old. You will eventually become a good player if you play enough 
 and challenge people you know and crush them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game is a gift to all SCI-FI lovers, but overall it is a very good FPS. There is an unusually 
 lot of action in which you will never get boring. You will have teammates along your side, a lot 
 of vehicles to drive around; there will be also a lot of enemies in which your objective is simple 
 - kill them or they will you. 
  But also there will be a lot of fun - especially when one alien team is fighting to other alien 
 team - you can just watch them fighting and then pop out with guns blazing etc. It is also interesting, 
 that when you almost defeat an enemy team, sometimes some of them will just run away from you, 
 which is considered unusual for an alien, that normally never surrenders (it seems that they prefer 
 their own life over the death) .
  
  The graphics are very shinny expect for environment, that is not so good - I mean it is rather 
 boring on some parts. I must say that I am a little disappointed with sounds, because there are 
 not clear growls of enemy, weapons fire is so distinctive but it is still good.
  
  Multiplayer is on of the best in my opinion - vehicles, lot of weapons, great maps, many different 
 options for fighting etc. Again - lots of fun and action.
  
  My conclusion is, that if you hate SCI-FI FPS, don`t play the game (but you can still try it) . 
 Otherwise, get it quick, because you will play this for hours - I`m quite sure of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Man31
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, im giving this a 7.8 for the main story line and single player. But multi-Player on teh other 
 hand, Whoa, It is very very fun. So many things to do online with other people from action to stunts! 
 If your looking for an online shooter that does not require as much as Battlefield 2, or any other 
 huge online game, this is the one for you! For multi-player, I would give it a straight up 8.9, 
 or a 9.0... Im just a die hard halo fan, dont want to ship out to get Xbox Live. On the other side, 
 single player is ok. Some patches needed to be patched on Halo 3.... The cintematics work well... 
 Not one time has it froze up on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phili4life
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Halo for the pc and xbox has to be the best shooters in history. Halo offers stunning graphics 
 and awesome sound of vehicles and gunfire. the graphics of this game are very detailed and are 
 very well mapped. The gameplay offers a single player mode which is a very good and long story 
 mods that will keep you wanting for more. Multiplayer offers many levels as well as modes such 
 as ctf, race, slayer, king of the hill, oddball and more. If your looking for a classic game or 
 a game that will keep you playing pick up this game now. i give this game a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voltage350z
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a fairly decent game for the PC. The difficuly of the game can vary on how skilled you 
 are with FPS. The Single player of Halo was nicely done. It has just the right lenght and it can 
 be set to different difficulties for any type of gamer. I am sure most of you have heard the whole 
 setting of where and what halo is all about so i will not go to into details about how it all began. 
 But i can assure you that halo has a good story line and one that will keep you interested in the 
 game.
  The multiplayer part of halo was also a solid part made in the game. For the PC you can compete 
 in many different modes such as CTF, Slayer, Team Slayer and so on. Servers usually host up to 
 16 people per game, which can make the games multiplayer exciting and interesting to play.
  Over all halo is a good game. Not the best, but a nice sci-fi first person shooter that should 
 definately be a part of your Xbox or PC library of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  I played the First Halo on the PC, on medium level, i like a good challenge, i really enjoyed playing 
 this.
  
  After playing completing the game, i was so interested in continuing with the rest of the halo 
 games.
  It's a little disappointing that they didn't carry on bringing them out for the PC and only the 
 XBOX, but not to worry, my mate Mike has the XBOX, so i spent alnight round his house playing the 
 first and second halo game.
  
  Played through the whole night and didn't go sleep at all until we completed the First Halo from 
 the Beginning till the End
  and then played the Second Halo from Beginning till the End.
  
  This was so FUN that we had several Mulitplayers matches.
  
  So, i recommend this game 
 to anyone who wants the best first person shoot-um-up's EVER!!!!
  
  Can'r wait until Halo 3!!!!
  
  Please Hurry!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limpspringgod
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  I am not a person who likes 1st person shooters. I frequently made up reasons not to own this game 
 and I compared it to others saying that it's not as great as people said and continue to say. However, 
 this game is definitely a good one that's hard to disappoint. I had trouble getting myself to adjust 
 my controller just right so it was very frustrating at times, but once you get past the learning 
 curve it is a very fun game to play. I still believe that I've played better games before this 
 game but it is definitely a great game to add to the collection, especially if you enjoy hard games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer of this game is worth purchasing it. I have to say that the game also pulled me 
 in with the interesting chatter by the aliens and the screaming after you shoot at them.
  
  The single player mode contains a great story and a great selection of weapons to blast your opponents 
 away. The voice acting is somewhat compelling and the cast of characters provide an interesting 
 set of personalities. Luckily you get to command a set of soldiers and you will run into new sets 
 as you run through the maps.
  
  Xbox's game is a little bit better because you can play 2-player mission mode and split-screen 
 the multiplayer mode, but the online ability of the PC version makes it just as fulfilling. Blasting 
 people from all over the world brings a strange sort of satisfaction that you can't necessarily 
 find in all games.
  
  Buy it and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notmelol
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:01 am PT
Review:  If you ever played this game you would agree with me, cause this game is totally cool first person 
 shooter and its awesome cause you totally immerse yourself in the universe of Halo. So i suggest 
 if you don't have the game by once you can because of the awesome graphics from when it was made 
 and is really cheap to buy. So go and get it!!!! If you don't like its just......... plain damn 
 weird. So just get playing!! And kick so covenant ass. Okay well bye now, and i know this reveiw 
 wasn't really good but well........ you know i not..... well the best review typer here. LOL
  
  Typed and thinked of by: Vince 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverickiscool
Rating: 4.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 12:37 am PT
Review:  I think that is a good game but all those xbox guys who want to have sex with this game are idiots, 
 just because the best game they can get isn't our fault, i poersonally hate this game and after 
 i finished i sold it to my friend straight away. and then i went and bought a real game (half-life 
 2) and sat down for ten hours and finished the game. then got addicted tgo counter strike source! 
 I strongly suggest not getting this game there are much better around for a cheaper price, i would 
 be much so muych better off not wasting my ten hours to finish it. it had no proper plot you were 
 running around killing aliens and you hardly no why. Earth is in havoc and there is nothing pointing 
 to why it is like it is and ou don't even know how it is havoc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shpa
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I've played halo for xbox since it came out, i never had xboxconnect or and lan parties on halo., 
 so halopc was pretty exciting, after playing for 2 years on halo pc, i still play it to this day.
 
  
  It's a classic, honestly, you cant beat it, of cource i would rather have a 16 ppl lan party for 
 halo xbox, but when im at home, its just as good to play with16 people on the internet. 
  
  The leading...., it took me long time to get the hang of this leading, at first i didnt know there 
 was leading, so u could guess i was getting really pissed when shooting ppl didnt do anyting.
 
  
  The flamethrower,,.... its fun, but i think they could have made it muuch better. first off, they 
 should have made it so it shoots like an actual flamthrower, it should do a efective shot gun area 
 range, and do less damage.
  
  Fuel Rod (noob cannon) - at first, u get pissed at that thing, but after having alot of experience 
 and doing klan wars.., its just part of the game, you do whatever it takes to win, (besides cheating) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visor123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  That's right. When I first heard of Halo for the Xbox I really looked forward to playing it on 
 the PC. Well its finally here but it was badly optimised for the PC.
  
  Halo demands a pixel shader graphics card. Even if your card does have pixel shader support you 
 may not be able to play the game smoothly at even low or high resolutions. Take the Intel GMA 900 
 Media Accelerator for example. We can play the game with all the eye candy but what about performance? 
 This game is a real hogger on it.
  
  Well Halo states that you need at least a video card with 32 MB VRAM to play it. So if you have 
 a card like Ati Radeon 7000 Series you won't be disappointed. Halo will look great but you will 
 yet be missing some eyecandy.
  
  If you have a card that Halo may not support you may be able to play it smoothly but with reduced 
 textures. The Master Chief and the Covenent grunts will have grey color suits. Yet the textures 
 are clean and the game is still fun to play.
  
  Halo features cool weapons and good gameplay and sound. The music is superb. Playing this game 
 online is fun. But if you're looking for more action play some other multiplayer FPS.
  
  You need not get Halo but if you do you might enjoy the experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:09 am PT
Review:  No doubt Halo is overrated, the fan's get ridiculous with it, and sometimes you get sick of hearing 
 about it. But Halo isn't that bad a game, it's well designed, very well designed. The levels are 
 balanced, the difficulity is good, and while the story isn't amazing, it's enough to keep you interested 
 in something other than killing. It's gameplay style is fairly easy look- aim-shoot, but the enemies 
 provide different challanges. The game will surprise you in some areas, theres an enemy that is 
 practically hell to beat, yet the best weapon to take it down is the pistol. Do not underestimate 
 the pistol, always carry one if possible. Theres always use for a pistol- save it, use it wisely, 
 and always couple it with a powerful weapon. Every creature has it's weakness to various weapons, 
 grunts and jackles can be downed by just about anything, but every other alien or mutant is downed 
 easier by others. Hunters are taken by the pistol, while the elites suffer from sniper rifles and 
 shotguns *same with flood mutants*. Halo is overrated, so don't get too hyped, but it's multiplayer 
 is fun, it's single player is fun, and it's an easy game to pick up and play, and enjoy from beginning 
 to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rishi91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:50 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. first of all, the xbox version ahs been moved to the pc version perfectly, if 
 not, better. The PC version can handle just about any type of graphics card and RAM still with 
 smooth gameplay. The graphics, if not the same, is better in terms and then new guns are revolutionary 
 for the multiplayer, which is online! The two new guns are featured as the flamethrower and the 
 plasma cannon. The plasma cannon has probably been desired to be used by all xbox players after 
 seeing grunts using it in single player. 
  In addition, the multiplayer has many game formats which will leave you playing this game for a 
 long time, deathmatch, in which you shoot people to the death is goaling for a certain amount of 
 kills. Capture the flag is rather fun where you have to capture te opposing teams flag or defend 
 yours. King Of the Hill requires you to find a crown somewhere located on the map and wear it before 
 getting killed for a certain amount of time. 
  The campaign is quite long with revolutionary guns, charecters, level design and even different 
 vehicles. The campaign is definately replayable in different variables, practicing for the ever 
 so much fun multiplayer. in addition, you can customize your multiplayer charecters name and color. 
 
  The sound is excellent and it keeps you in tact while playing, although, the music is not always 
 on. The charecters speak well and the voice of master chief is well done in a slick manner. The 
 npc's also have a funny or serious tone, although they are not that strong in battle. 
  The gameplay is excellent and well designed and easy to learn. Left click to shoot right click 
 to throw grenades. spacebar to jump and wsad to walk around. everything is in reach and you dont 
 have to take one entire hand to get to press anything. Shooting is basic, just like any fps but 
 the rate of shots and no lag is excellent. i havent been able to tell the difference between GOOD 
 fps, but the bad ones just stick out. This was definately a good fps, if not better.
  The gameplay is rather repetitive, for example, you may have to hit three switches where there 
 are three different corridors and you have to hit a switch for each. Most of the time, the three 
 corridors contain the same monsters and same level design and it gets quite boring. Especially 
 in some aggravating parts that i will not mention.
  THis game will last you many months, if not, years, and in counting. LOTS of people still play 
 multiplayer so you may be addicted to that for a while, although it will get boring and it would 
 be alot funner if it was ranked or you had levels as you got better as halo 2 does for XBOX. i 
 am quite disappointed that there will be no halo 2 for the PC but many people have already made 
 mods for the halo 2 maps for multiplayer. Basically, it wont last you as long as maybe halo 2 for 
 the xbox live may but its still good. Ive bought this game before halo 2 did come out, but i havent 
 written a review until now. 
  This game has a well rounded tilt. It will last you a good amout of time, it has everything from 
 long levles for campaign and excellent online muliplayer with lots of different modes that keep 
 a fun and fufilling investment. buy this game, dont rent, that would be stupid. 
  Note: if you have a bad graphics card, the game will run well although the color will not be the 
 best, as the master chief, npcs and enemies will all be gray with no actual colors. But this game 
 is still great. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjoco
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  Halo is fun is fun kick ass 1st person shooter. But after beating the game once in single player 
 mode it got really old a second time around. The graphics is.. lets just say not as good as the 
 xbox version. the sound consists of plasma shots, mashine guns, hogs, and guys screaming and thats 
 about it. I found the controls for Halo not hard to master at all. The games difficulty went from 
 easy to hard and than to easy again. Thats just about all i can say about its single player. The 
 multiplayer is by far better than xboxs. The are many reasons why i say this. One is the ability 
 to use a banchee which you can not do in Xbox. Another is how the flamethrower and the plasma rifle, 
 expecialy the plasma rifle. the last is how you can test your skills against other players rather 
 than against Covenant. I know these arnt very good reasons for having multiplayer butter than sing 
 player but who cares its about what i think about the game. 
  
  gjoco's rating: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notlin-san
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA vDOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
 DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA DOA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordspiff
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  That impression is of course, not a very good one. 
  I would like to start with the story on this one, which can be summed up in 4 little words. "Been 
 there, done that". In fact I've been there and done that so many times I could just cry. There 
 is absolutely nothing original about it in any sense of the word. To me it felt as dry as eating 
 sawdust off a workroom floor, and had about as much flavor.
  
  Even in the highest settings the graphics were as bland and boring as the story. No effort was 
 made to try and improve the texture quality or variety. It is also obvious that no effort was made 
 to truly optimize the graphics engine for the PC, seeing as how other games coming out at the time 
 had better graphics and lower system requirements.
  
  For the controls there's not really anything to say. They're not bad but they're not great either, 
 just functional. Which is more than I can say for the AI. I'm tired of people seeing nifty scripting 
 techniques and thinking it's good AI. I lost track of the number of allies that I shot in the back 
 because they would run right out into my line of fire while I was shooting.
  
  All in all Halo is a game that not only doesn't live up to the hype, but falls about as far short 
 of it as possible. I have played almost every FPS since Wolfenstein and I can say with certainty 
 that this is one of the worst I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenlover900
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kokool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool koolol koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cain_rednaS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  Well, i've heard some nasty news about HALO for the pc, it wouldn't be as great as HALO for the 
 Xbox.
  I've played the game both on the xbox as on the pc. 
  
  -Graphics-
  The Graphics are awesome, they look great. I think they're just as good as the xbox version. Something 
 you'll sure reach with a goed video card.
  
  -Gameplay-
  I think the gameplay on the PC is much better then the gameplay on the xbox, but perhaps that's 
 a personal question. However, i've suffered much problems playing HALO on the xbox, cause i'm not 
 that good aiming etc. and the autoaim isn't my thing, so that's an option i never use. Therefore 
 i was happy to be able to play in on the pc, and what a relief was that!
  It's so easy to play the game on the pc while i've had a hard time on the xbox, aiming was no problem. 
 If i'm attacked from the back, i just turn my mouse and kill the person, but on the xbox, it's 
 hard (for me) to turn and aim well, en kill my opponent. 
  
  I'm happy that I haven't bought HALO for my xbox. 
  I'll buy it for the pc! i'm totally convinced. 
 But maybe i'll wait for HALO 2 (or 3??) to come out on the pc.
  
  -Final conclusion.-
  Are you more into shooters on your pc, don't buy it on the xbox, but for your pc, you'll have the 
 same action as in the xbox version, and it's much easier to learn!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesneak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  there is no way around playing this game and not having fun i cant say much because this gme is 
 just down right AWSOME if your bord of other games just buy this one it only costs like 20$ and 
 its one of the best deals in ur life ,i mean, this whole game is just sweet. the multi player is 
 great and i think it would be better to get this game for PC than to get halo 2 for X box. eventhough 
 this game might sound a little old it is not the graphics are fine and the game plat is top of 
 the line 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  The Halo series is always a spot in my hart because it is an awsome game and it is the best shooter 
 game I have ever played!!!
  
  Gameplay: You play as masterchief who kick the butts out of the aliens. There is an awsome collection 
 of weapons and grenades and the viechels are fantastic.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics. The weapons are great looking and the areas and the levels are AMAZING.
 
  
  Sound: Unbelivible. One of the best sounds I have ever heard im my hole life. The weapons sound 
 awsome and the areas are beautiful.
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours finishing the single mode in the hardest difficultys. And of 
 course the online mode which is amazing.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is amazing and you should make it your first game to buy on 
 the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  [This review appears originally on Trigames. NET]
  
  To judge a game that you're not particularly fond of for a single, but important reason, is all 
 the more difficult when you know how successful the title has been and you know the place that 
 gamers have for it in their hearts. I am talking about Halo: Combat Evolved, for the PC, a now 
 legendary game that has just spawned an overnight success out of its sequel to the tune of $125 
 million and over two million copies sold... and the first week of its life hadn't even ended yet. 
 I will attempt to be as fair as possible, because Halo does so many things right, regardless of 
 platform, and regardless of age -- but choices in level design leave me aghast of the single player 
 campaign, and for that I personally cannot excuse it.
  
  Bungie Software was designing Halo for the Mac and PC, when Microsoft liked what they saw and decided 
 to purchase the studio outright. They then made the game an Xbox exclusive for nearly the first 
 two years of its life. I had already planned to spend my next-gen console money elsewhere and at 
 the time couldn't afford to snag yet another console so close together. I saw Halo videos with 
 eager eyes, lamenting on how nice it would have been to have a simultaneous launch: Halo on the 
 Xbox and PC, so that both parties could enjoy what Bungie had to offer. After seeing the title 
 perform on the console, my anticipation waned. It didn't feel too good. It didn't feel right. Most 
 of it, of course, was attributed to my seething hatred for using controllers for most FPS' (see 
 Eye, Golden- for a prime example of the frustration of using a gamepad -- that's right, I said 
 Goldeneye. Boo me if you want...) . But the visuals looked less spectacular than I was expecting 
 from Microsoft's supposed juggernaut of a console and Master Chief just didn't control well.
  
  That was then, on a demo unit, in an EBGames shop. Fast forward to today, and after playing 
 several multiplayer matches on the Xbox and completing the game on my PC, things done changed. 
 Bungie has a great grasp on the FPS mechanic of making the slaying of little nasty aliens and big 
 lug aliens a pleasure. The assault rifle just feels tight and balanced. There is great payback 
 from killing enemies, similar to the cathartic pleasure we got from blasting Doom demons back to 
 hell. Bullets punch alien armor fiercely as they grunt, groan and wail. They fire back with equally 
 painful methods. Their AI routines have them dodging, seeking cover, sneaking up behind you, and 
 flanking you -- they're effing smart, which makes it all the more satisfying when you finally put 
 them in their place with a shot to the head.
  
  The survival mechanic, too, is a unique system that I at first hated, but grew to enjoy. Master 
 Chief has a rechargeable shield along with normal health bars. The shield can't take too much damage, 
 but when you retreat behind cover and wait, it can and will recharge all the way to full strength. 
 Thus you are never ever faced with the problem of being trapped with nowhere to go, with one hit 
 before you bite the dust. Even with one health bar, with careful shooting mixed with running for 
 cover at the appropriate time, you can make it out alive. That's skill right there. It's quite 
 a nice system, and it's one that has been mimicked by games like Gungrave and the recently released 
 Killzone.
  
  Better still are the weapon mechanics in the game. Like Metroid Prime, the weapons do not become 
 obsolete. They do not follow the pattern of "the later you find a weapon, the stronger it be!" 
 that so many other games in the past -- and games that are still releasing today utilized. Even 
 the diminutive handgun packs a mean punch -- it's so accurate that two or three bullets are usually 
 more efficient than a third of a clip from your assault rifle. And every weapon lets you pistol 
 whip chumps over the head. Yet another mechanic that was adopted by another successful game (Call 
 of Duty -- another fine shooter) . The feeling is so satisfying, it might be more worth it to pistol 
 whip an enemy than shoot it dead, simply for the sheer sound of crunching alien bones.
  
  A small nitpick that I have is that Halo forces you to a maximum of two weapons and a grenade. 
 It's nothing major and it still works well strategically, forcing players to think about what they 
 might need for what situations, but I would have liked at least one more allotment. Master Chief 
 should never be without his pistol, which as I mentioned, kicks mounds of arse -- can't he stick 
 it on his belt holster or something? But I digress. It's still a functional and innovative system 
 that makes players think about different ways to approach the action in this genre.
  
  I'm pretty sure that Halo was also one of the first, if not the first games, to let you fire and 
 chuck grenades without the unceremonious labor of switching weapons in mid-fire. Just hold down 
 the left mouse button to fill aliens full of lead, and right-click when you want to send the gift 
 box of explosive joy over to the kids for Christmas. BLAM. Ultimately satisfying. Let me take a 
 few seconds to mention the plasma grenade, an especially wonderful gift for deserving children, 
 that sticks to their alien armor while they frantically run to brush it off (to no avail) . Best 
 grenade of all time?
  
  I could go into vehicles in depth too, but let's just say that to this day I haven't played a first 
 person shooter that had as intuitively controlled vehicles as Halo, except for Unreal Tourney 2004. 
 Even the glorious Far Cry, one of my picks for best shooter out there, has some faulty Hummer control. 
 And -- wait for it -- you can jump into alien vehicles as well, and fly your arseout of a tough 
 situation. In short, the vehicles are as well implemented as the core shooting action, and that's 
 quite a feat when you consider the failure to do so in so many other games.
  
  You can see where I'm getting at here. Bungie has the shooter mechanic down pat. If they licensed 
 their engine to a house such as, say, Infinity Ward or Free Radical, that game would be mine even 
 before I knew what the name of it was. But their creative minds extend to the backstory and game 
 setup. The universe of Halo is a very cool one, if not a bit cliched with the "aliens want eat 
 us brain!" motif. Halo is actually a ringworld, with a vast ecosystem that takes up the inner part 
 of the ring, while mechanical support systems adorn the outside. It's just a really cool thing 
 to look at, whether it be on the title screen of the game or on the world itself, where you can 
 look into the horizon and see what looks like a stairway to heaven -- the path of the Halo extending 
 skywards, and coming back around behind you. The story about the Convenant and the _________ is 
 also intriguing, providing for a somewhat unexpected twist in near the end of the game.
  
  All this is fleshed out with realistic looking environments. The bump-mapping work -- especially 
 for a port of a two year old console title -- was still fantastic for the 2003 PC release. Metal 
 looks like metal. Rocks look like rocks. All of this holds true when you walk right up to it and 
 it's in your face -- there is very little to no texture distortion or mess or any of that. It looks 
 damn fine from a techincal level. I do think the art direction needed help though -- I understand 
 that alien defense structures are no doubt cold and sterile, but for all of its technical glory, 
 Halo looks -- design-wise -- sort of plain. Not bad, just plain. It's like having a master painter 
 paint a beautifully realistic picture of a stack of bricks. There's nothing overtly wrong with 
 that though -- it still has some robust technology, and they made it sing. The outdoor environments, 
 at least, look grand because of the aforementioned sight of "the rest of" Halo in the distance, 
 rising up out of a beautiful sea.
  
  And here's the best part of this game: the music that makes the world alive. Composers Martin O'Donnell 
 and Michael Salvatori have done an absolutely fantastic, breathtaking job with the soundtrack for 
 Halo. The soundtrack is something I would be proud to have in my discman while walking to work 
 or something. It's a mix of orchestrated military combat themes, tribal-sounding percussion themes, 
 eerie alien themes and Gregorian chanting. It all blends together so perfectly, and while it may 
 not always be super-fitting for the environment at hand, it's still such great music to listen 
 to -- you won't care that there's Gregorian chanting while an alien's brain gets punched through 
 its eye socket. Absolutely fantastic work that may be the reason this title is so memorable to 
 gamers subconsciously.
  
  So then why the hell don't I like it as much as I should?
  
  Level design. Level design, level design, freaking [PARENTAL ADVISORY: EXPLICIT LYRICS] level design.
 
  
  I think Bungie took the creation of logical structures a little too, er, logically. Let me start 
 off with an analogy. Suppose someone built four sets of barracks that were connected by bridges. 
 Logically, the construction company would build the barracks identically, yes? It's a standard 
 design for a standard barrack. They will look the same from the inside. I understand this, and 
 this is perfectly logical. But it just doesn't work well in practice, for me at least. Three million 
 Xbox owners and countless other PC gamers don't care, but I do. There are sections of the game 
 where there are half hours worth of the same looking corridor, almost identical except for maybe 
 a left turn here instead of a right. There is this one section where you enter a building, cross 
 a bridge, enter a building at the end of that bridge that is ALMOST IDENTICAL, exit that building 
 to find an IDENTICAL bridge to the last one, only to stumble across yet another building identical 
 to the last, onto another identical bridge. You get the picture. The most aggravating section comes 
 before the last few levels of the game, where you are forced to run down long, wide, and deep hallways 
 for what felt to me like almost an hour. With no change of scenery, save for two short underground 
 passages that lead... of course... to the same identical looking hallways. Why didn't Bungie just 
 turn this section into an arcade light gun game -- it would have fared better that way.
  
  Look -- I know the hordes of gamers out there might not care, but I certainly do, and you -- a 
 gamer who might not have played Halo yet -- might care as well. The length and tedium of these 
 boring level sections are the likes of which I have rarely seen in what is supposed to be a high 
 profile, high quality game. The guys at Penny Arcade really weren't kidding when they drew Gabe 
 as saying, "It's the same stupid level, over and over again!" I will say that pounding a nail through 
 my you-know-what (as Tycho so eloquently compared the game to) is far less appealing than playing 
 Halo, though.
  
  Halo is a good, solidly constructed game that's marred in the end by what I feel is inexcusable 
 recycled levels. It's as if they wanted to extend the content just so Microsoft could say, "This 
 game is 10 full hours long!" I would have been so happy with a mere five or six hour game, with 
 less repetitive levels, and I would have been ready to call this an incredible shooter. But I can't. 
 I'm happy that there are people on this earth who can get past such a fundamental thing as non-repetitive 
 level design, because as long as people are happy, I'm happy. But at the same time I'm frustrated 
 by those levels. So I'm not happy.
  
  Confused?
  
  It's such a relief then, that Halo's multiplayer is intact from the Xbox version. It's the Xbox 
 equivalent to multiplayer Goldeneye in terms of a variance of modes and options, so you just know 
 that it's awesome. Capture the Flag? With vehicles? Awesome. And when porting the title over to 
 PC, Gearbox let players use a flamethrower, energy rod (so called n00b rod) and the flying Banshee 
 vehicles -- making multiplayer even better than its Xbox compatriot. One thing to shed a tear for: 
 no co-op campaign. This would have spiced things up for me during the ultimately boring, tedious 
 sections that so plague the single-player mode. Perhaps it would have been enough for me to be 
 more happy about this game. Alas, it was not to be. Xbox owners, you got the better end of the 
 deal with regards to that.
  
  In the end, I must recommend Halo to shooter fans, with the explicit warning that you may possibly 
 be disappointed if you have certain standards for level design. But then again, you may not be. 
 I realize I am in the VAST minority (I will repeat: three-effing-million Xbox owners and countless 
 other PC owners!) to say Halo is good but not great. For the PC its saving grace is the internet-enabled 
 multiplayer with extra capabilities and 32-person matches. Others might be pleased with the sci-fi 
 story that is bolstered by a fascinating backstory thanks to books and the recent I Love Bees marketing 
 campaign. Yet others still just love shooting the crapulence out of aliens, in general.
  
  But I value a great single player experience without loopy levels. And when something like the 
 original Unreal Tournament -- a damned multi-player ONLY game -- can provide a single-player botmatch 
 environment that can STILL entertain me endlessly, I expect that a FPS with a dedicated single-player 
 campaign impress me even more. Halo did not. Bungie has put so much creative effort into the rest 
 of this game, and I'm sad the level design had to bring it down.
  
  I hope you play this game, and play the sequel, but I also hope you can understand and sympathize 
 with me as to why I can only call it "good." I certainly understand why other gamers loved it so, 
 there are great, legitimate reasons for it. But I wanted to love it too, I wanted to be proud of 
 it, beam brightly and rank it up there with the best of this generation of console games. But instead, 
 I can only smile weakly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:48 am PT
Review:  This is Just the same Game As the x-box Just with Pollished up graphics and A bit better Sound 
 so even if you have or you havent played Halo on x-box I would still get this Game since its a 
 Great FPS no matter what Console its on. The sounds is The same stuff But like i said beofre Slightly 
 Better Graphics Also slightly Better Every thing is Better But Theres not as much of value sinces 
 its really Just the same game. Maby with a new weapon or 2 and Vech But theres only one thing about 
 this thats bettr than The x-box Version Its online Its a heck of a lot better trust me. I would 
 get this game If i was you 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squalcl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Halo is one of the most impressive first-person shooter I've played. The enemy AI's smart: the 
 monsters will hide behind shields and know to evade your firing. In just the beginning, the intensity 
 of fire fight can be felt as Master Chief battled his way to the life pods, based on the level 
 of difficulty. There are other cool features like the flashlight, which aren't present in other 
 shooter games. The variety of weapons also made the game good, as some of the weapons may shoot 
 once or hold the mouse button and accumulate energy, so to give the most damage. The graphic in 
 general is alright, but not great. The sound effects are great, with music changing whenever fire 
 fight gets intense. The ability to flip vehicles when they flip over is also great too, not like 
 in other games when the vehicles flipped over, you can't use them anymore. One thing that marks 
 down is that the scenery can get repetitive, so sometimes it feels bored to go through the same 
 place over and over again. Overall, it is a good game. I recommend it for killing some free time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_ogrim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure that when Halo was released on the XBOX it was nothing short of revolutionary, but when 
 released on PC, it's limitations became quite clear.
  
  Halo looks quite good for such a dated game, but looks aren't everything. As long as fighting takes 
 place in the outdoors, all is well. But indoors, the main, devastating flaw of the game becomes 
 apparent. It is ridiculously repetitive.
  
  Take this for example: a couple of hours into the game you encounter a long stretch of nearly identical 
 rooms that you have to cross. Having passed them, you are probably quite bored. You are then told 
 to go back the way you came, which of course makes you even more bored.
  
  Another problem lies in the design of the enemy. The first enemies to be encountered are small, 
 whiny dwarves with shells on their backs, who run around screaming in panic. I did laugh, but I 
 really didn't get into the mood that makes FPS games enjoyable. Furthermore, Bungee could have 
 created a lot more different enemies, since those who exist behave in a few different ways, but 
 offer little challenge once you've figured out their weaknesses.
  
  One positive feature, however, is the existence of nicely modelled and quite unique vehicles, though 
 Bungee should have adapted the controls to allow the player to steer in one direction while looking 
 in another.
  
  Halo is often celebrated for it's rich storyline, a fact that simply baffles me. In fact, I find 
 Halo's lack of story to be one of it's weak points. The story elements make up a minute part of 
 the game, and most of the time, there is no storyline at all. Furthermore, it is quite straightforward 
 and hardly surprising. When compared to games such as Half-Life (1998) and System Shock 2 (1999) , 
 Halo's storyline rivals only that of the game Doom, which had none at all. It also completely lacks 
 all the little details that makes it so easy to become completely immersed in the Half-Life experience.
 
  
  All in all, Halo has good graphics which is put to good use now and then, and it has a few cool 
 vehicles, but apart from that it does very little that other games cannot do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obrent
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:56 am PT
Review:  Halo is one of those games that can be easy as pie until the last few levels, or devilishly hard 
 until the very end. 
  You play as Spartan 117 more commonly known as Master Chief. You are the last surviving superhuman 
 and are sent on a mission - to protect the AI Construct called Cortana. This develops into much 
 much more. The Flood is released! For those people who haven't played yet, i wont ruin the surprise... whether 
 it be good or bad...
  Though many people who have played other games say that halo's multiplayer system sucks it doesn't. 
 It is better on XBox but still the options are countless. Teamplay / Free for All, Slayer, Oddball, 
 CTF, Race and King gameplay styles that you can change to create incredibly hard, annoying, fun 
 and impossible to win games. 
  
  Campaign:
  Difficulty: Complete ease - impossibility
  Fun: Incredibly frustrating - incredible buckets full
  Playability: Almost Limitless
  Satisfaction: 
 Incredible
  
  Multiplayer: 
  Difficulty: Depends on who your playing with
  Fun: Depends on who your playing with
  Playability: Depends on who your playing with
  Satisfaction: 
 Completely Kick A**
  
  Overall: This game is close to perfect for a firstplayer action game I recommend it to anyone... slight 
 warning... turn decals off if your queasy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  When Halo came out for the Xbox, I seriously didn't like the look of it. Especially since it was 
 on the Xbox, I forgot about and went on with my gaming. It wasn't until it came out for the PC 
 that I took notice, checking out the suprisingly high level of detail and graphics a port could 
 bring to the table. The gameplay looked amazing also, with drivable vehicles and cool weapons + 
 plot. So when I picked it up, I kicked myself several times for not getting interested earlier. 
 The ported version of Halo takes advantage of the PC, using it's graphical capabilities alongwith 
 slick controls and large crowd.
  I really liked the story to Halo, and really got into it about the first week I started it. The 
 action sequences are amazing, both intriguing and original. How cool is it to throw a plasma grenade 
 at a Flood beaste and have it helplessly running around with it stuck to it's back? The game offers 
 a variety of weapons at your disposal, some I've labeled as the funnest I've ever used in a game. 
 Enemy AI is smart enough, dodging and moving for cover, while at the same time laying waste to 
 anything in it's path. Though some of the later levels get repetetive, it was still packed with 
 enough variety to keep me hitched. In the end I was actually very disappointed that it was over, 
 one of the few issues being length. But that doesn't dismiss the fact that it holds fantastic gameplay 
 value for anyone who's a shooter fan.
  On the hardware side, this game looked pretty damn good on a computer. Environments are nicely 
 detailed and developed, adding an exotic and alien feeling to Halo. The audio and soundtrack also 
 push the game along nicely, especially the theme song I've become addicted to. This was a big suprise 
 on the hardware side of things, and I'm glad I picked it up. 
  So when it comes down to it, if you've played this already then there's nothing really new. On 
 the other hand, if you haven't played this then by all means go to your nearest gaming story and 
 do it up. You'll be blown away at the value of this game, although I'm a little skeptical on the 
 price tag it's been carrying for quite sometime. Nonetheless, check this one out or you'll be sorry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Halo is the best shooter ever, of course according to me.
  
  Halo plays in the future, in the year 2551. The universe is being terrorized by the alien union 
 called the Covenant. You are a special trained soldier called Spartan II. Your mission is to discover 
 the secrets of the Covenant and where their home base is so it can be destroyed. While you're on 
 a mission in the UNSC space ship, The Pilar of Autumn, the UNSC home planet Reach is being destroyed 
 and you flee with the ship and it's crew. While you're fleeing you come to some look-a-like ring, 
 called Halo. But you're not alone, the Covenant sended one ship called The Truth and Reconciliation 
 to stop you. The fight will be taking to the surface of the so called Ring. But there are many 
 things that are there to be discoverd, and it's not anything good.
  
  The gameplay of the PC version of Halo is just as perfect like the Xbox version, no doubt about 
 that. The online feature really gives more fun and joy to play Halo with other players around the 
 world. There are still many players that enjoy playing Halo online on the PC. If you're into game-clans, 
 you really should play Halo, cause there are more then 1000 clans available to join.
  
  The Graphics are great, but not perfect. There are some little glitches that can be irritating 
 while you're playing, and there are a lot of 2D objects. But the sweet surrounding of the nature 
 in Halo and the shinyness of the armour really makes Halo a game with great graphics, but not the 
 best around.
  
  Sound, well what can I say about that? I can just say, it's very realistic with the bullit fire 
 and screaming marines all over the place, you just gotta love it.
  
  Value, al though Halo was originaly a Xbox shooter, Halo PC is a real experience no PC gamer can 
 miss, it's not the best FPS on the PC, but it is worth playing it, and I'm sure you'll fall in-love 
 with single player if you don't like the multiplayer. Cause, the single player is the best single 
 player of all FPS games, ever.
  
  Tilt, like I said, Halo PC is a great PC game, well superb. It just has some glitches and some 
 little bugs that can be irritating. But the greatest feature that has been added is of course multiplayer, 
 and for players that don't owe a Xbox or played Halo on the Xbox can also enjoy the great storyline 
 in the single player mode. So, overall, the Xbox version is better then the PC version, the only 
 real new good thing is multiplayer with some new maps, vehicles and weapons.
  
  Good points
  
  +Darn great storyline.
  +Gameplay very original.
  +On PC at last.
  +Multiplayer 
 modes are great fun.
  +Sound is overwhelming.
  +Never gets old to play.
  
  Bad points
  
  -Many laggers online.
  -No other extras than just a vehicle a few maps and 
 two weapons.
  -Might be hard to find serious players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollar741
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is funny just by listening the aliens it's on of the best first person shooter out here 
 good graphics good online game play the weapons are great the unique thing is choosing colours 
 for your battle suite that was a good idea who ever made this game needs an a applause you did 
 a good job creating this game even down to the vehicles look good but driving some of them is kinda 
 weird but still fun though i enjoy playing this game u like just shooting up some aliens this game 
 is a good game for that too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DVetter
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  What was the best shooter ever made for X-Box has been transformed in to one of the funnest games 
 for the PC I have ever played. I haven't enjoyed a game this much since the first Half-Life. What 
 stunning action and a truly excellent story to go with it. The graphics and sound were equally 
 rich. They suck you right in and crank the immersion level right up there. Scary at times and just 
 plain suspenseful at others. Terrific shooter action and a good variety of weapons plus drivable 
 vehicles! Now that it's been out a while you can find it in the bargain bin at your local game 
 shop. Don't hesitate. BUY IT and Become the Master Chief! This is one shooter that is a MUST OWN 
 in anyone's game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgersrock
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a game with the best multi-player action. With so many levels to choose from, you can play 
 for hours. The vehicles are awesome (and effective) in combat. The learning curve is most likely, 
 under 10 min. You will pick it up quickly and efficiently. Weapons in halo, I can describe them 
 as wonderfully effective. Especially the sniper rifle and the rocket launcher. You can always find 
 ammunition and health around almost every corner. When you get on this game you loose yourself. 
 Once i found my self playing for over 5 hours. This is a game that is defiantly worth the money 
 you pay. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyfireball
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  HALO is a pretty solid game, Not the best. But still pretty good, and I had fun playing it.
  
  The Levels
  This is the only thing I HATE in the game. LOTS of the levels
  feel like your 
 going threw it over & over. It feels like someone just copyed a piece & Pasted it. Otherwise a couple 
 were OKAY.
  
  Your Enemy & Ally
  Your Enemy can be intellagent like a god, or as dumb as a rock.
  it all matters on what diffuclty 
 you choose. You will be faceing many types of aliens. KILL'EM ALL! Your ally will be marines. BEWARE 
 THO they stop helping you later in the game! Dont get hooked on'em!
  
  Your Rides
  They rank from Warthog to Huge Artillery. Find out for yourself :) .
  
  Overall. Good Solid 
 Game, I recommend it to everyone whoe like sci-fi!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgtc
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype surrounding its release, one couldn't help but hold high expectations for the 
 PC version of Halo, especially people like me who never played the console version. Well, I was 
 in for a huge disappointment. Of all the FPS's I have ever played, I'd be challenged to find one 
 as boring as Halo. Apart from a couple of interesting battles, most of the time I just wandered 
 through tunnel after drab tunnel, every now and then killing a few of the only half a dozen different 
 types of enemies, with one of the three or four unsatisfying weapons available. The game's graphics 
 engine is another bad surprise, demanding a lot of computer hardware and offering very little in 
 return. Actually, the game looks worse than games released two or three years before it. Serious 
 Sam 1 was far better looking and performed a hundred times better, long before PC Halo. Half-Life 
 2 offers a fantastic graphic experience and also performs infinitely better than Halo even on middle-range 
 PC's. My final advice is: if you haven't wasted it on Halo yet, save your cash and your time for 
 Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  You dont find many must have games these days. Most of them are either underwhelming, or downright 
 stupid. This is due to absolutely atrocious graphics, painful sound effects, and overall abysmal, 
 silly, clunky, and incomplete gameplay. These games started out good, or at least half way decent, 
 but then devolve into an absolutely atrocious game. Those games were mistakes, and should never 
 have been repeated. Sadly, a lot of them were. I started to give up hope of finding a game that 
 deserved the mark of a true classic (10/10- perfect) until I walked into CompUSA one day in 2003, 
 and saw a game of a flat screen YV hooked up to a computer tower. After ten minutes of playing 
 it, I knew that it was meant to be. This game had everything, including ultra crisp graphics, beautiful 
 sound, and breathtaking gameplay. When I asked what the game was called, the assistant said that 
 it was called Halo. I knew right then and there that I had to pick up a copy of this game, but 
 didnt have the money for it. Fortunately, my B-day was a mere two days away, and sure enough, 
 I received Halo. To begin with, this game is very unique and original. Its not just because of 
 any individual gameplay element, or the storyline, but for finally bringing a solid first person 
 shooter into the world of video games. I had heard of Halo before, but never had an Xbox. So when 
 I received Halo, I was so excited. I am also proud to say that it did deliver on all of my expectations. 
 The thing about the PC version is that it basically a direct port of the Xbox version and took 
 its sweet time getting to the PC with not too many extras in it. However, I never played the Xbox 
 version, so this was a first timer for me.
  
  The story is very unique in many ways. Set in the year 2552, everything we humans dream of today 
 is now a reality (starships but no ray guns.) Planet earth still exists, but when it became too 
 overpopulated some 400 years before, humans had to colonize on other worlds. We now have colonies 
 on other solar system and the United Nations has kept us all together as if we were still living 
 on only earth. However, the good times did not last. Some thirty years before 2552, contact with 
 the furthest planet in our controlled space known as harvest was lost. The military known as the 
 UNSC sent a battle group of three ships to investigate. Only one badly damaged ship returned, and 
 told of a seemingly unstoppable alien warship that had effortlessly annihilated their forces. This 
 is when the human-covenant war began. Outnumbered and outgunned by larger forces and superior firepower, 
 we seem to have little chance for survival as the covenant sweep through our solar systems and 
 destroy our planets one by one. However, deep in our controlled space, in a fortress world called 
 reach, the office of navy intelligence (ONI) is training the first super soldiers known as the 
 SPARTAN II program on the fortress world known as REACH. Taken in to the military, and trained 
 at an early age, these super soldiers were to embark on a dangerous mission. Board and capture 
 an enemy spaceship and learn the location of the covenant home world. Two days before the mission 
 begins, REACH is attacked and destroyed. With the covenant right on Earths doorstep, one last 
 ship known as The Pillar of Autumn makes a blind jump through space, hoping to lead the covenant 
 away from Earth. I have never heard a more unique story in my life.
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  Even to this date, the graphics are still very impressive. However, when compared to the Xbox version, 
 I have noticed some minor differences. In the Xbox version, the colors dont look as rich, the 
 character models not as sleek, and the environments arent as sharp, but they still look good. 
 The only noticeable difference between the two is that the Master Chief and the elites are just 
 a bit sleeker. Anyways, to start off, everything in the game has a plentiful amount of detail to 
 it, from the individual shell casings of each bullet, right down to the dirt and grime on the soldier, 
 weapons and vehicles. That only goes for the human weapons, as the covenant weapons are very sleek, 
 smooth, and shiny. The covenant themselves look just downright awesome, from the individual features 
 on each and every soldier, to the lighting effects (which look very lavish) that make the reflections 
 of the elites, and hunters armor possible. The human character models look fairly good themselves, 
 with a good amount of animation also packed into them. The weapons themselves also look very real 
 with plenty of extra polygons attached to them to show and prove that Bungie went the extra step 
 to ensure that this game looked extra special. The vehicles also carry the same graphical properties 
 as the weapons, with the human vehicles being covered with dirt and grime to show off their battle 
 scars, to the sleek, narrow, and smoothly curved shaped covenant vehicles. The appearance of the 
 covenant aliens, weapons and vehicles also shows off the originality and uniqueness of the covenant 
 race, maybe because Bungie wanted them to look unlike any other alien race, or maybe its that 
 they have a great imagination. Oh wait Im sorry, they have an awesome imagination. The graphics 
 when you think about it are actually the living and virtual proof that both Bungie and Microsoft 
 wanted this game to be unique, and unlike any other game anyone has ever seen. Overall, these graphics 
 are downright outstanding on the whole. 
  
  Sound- 10/10
  The sound is pure and true right to its core. Its not so much for the realism of the guns, voice 
 acting, or vehicles (which by the way sound so real, I cant tell the difference) but its because 
 of the soundtrack. The soundtrack is the most beautiful set of orchestration composition I have 
 heard in my life. It actually reminds me of medieval chanting. In addition the already outstanding 
 soundtrack, the environmental sounds just rock hard. You can hear water running when you get close, 
 birds chirping, and you can even hear different sounds depending on what type of floor terrain 
 youre moving on, whether its steel, stone, grass, etc. The sounds of the humans and covenant 
 dying are also excellent, with a different sound for each alien. Every character also has its 
 own in-game dialogue (although its really the same for each race) which makes both the sound and 
 gameplay even better. Overall, the sound is pure and true to its core.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  Im not entirely sure if Halo was the first to do this, but I must say that 
 a new type of gameplay has been born, a very unique type. To start off, unlike other first person 
 shooters where you can carry twenty weapons and then some, you can only carry two weapons in Halo. 
 This gives a whole new meaning to the way first person shooters are played, as it gives birth to 
 a meaning of balancing weapons. Sometimes you need more firepower than accuracy, or you need close 
 range weapons more than long range, or you just need the big explosive guns more than anything 
 else. This gives meaning to balancing gun for gun, situation for situation. Speaking of weapons, 
 you also can obtain two types of grenades in this game, frag grenades, and plasma grenades. The 
 Master Chief has this all star left throwing hand, as he can toss grenades like they were pebbles 
 with such accuracy and precision that it makes it very difficult to miss which in this case is 
 a good thing. The grenades also have special properties. The frag grenades explode faster and are 
 useful when you want to take out a large group of enemies at once, while the plasma grenade is 
 useful for taking out a certain target. The plasma grenade has very unique properties as well. 
 For instance, it will stick to a soldier or vehicle, but not a tree or a wall. This I found to 
 be very unique. The vehicles are also very cool themselves and each have their own unique properties. 
 One of them known as the banshee, can fly and has something called a fuel rod cannon. Its like 
 a grenade, but much more powerful. This one particular vehicle called the scorpion tank, has a 
 cannon that can blow through anything with one shot. Its cannon is the most powerful weapon in 
 the game, and blows through anything, even a tank with ease, and is nearly invulnerable to small 
 arms fire. As for when being on foot, this game absolutely rocks. The controls are very fluid, 
 with a good amount of mouse sensitivity, but not too much, and the game even gives you the option 
 to adjust it. As for fighting, the weapons and controls basically give you the ultimate advantage 
 when combating you enemies. You are never in a situation where you have only two percent health, 
 little ammunition and are forced to fight a plethora of enemies all at once. This is due to the 
 ability of being able to pick up any weapon you can find, and the recharging energy shields integrated 
 into the Master Chiefs MJOLNIR armor. However, that does not make you invincible. You can take 
 some damage, but not an absurdly large amount, even with the Master Chief being as strong as he 
 is. The enemy AI is very intelligent and has the ability to duck for cover, lay down covering fire, 
 flank your position, and coordinate in packs. For example, when an enemy with an energy shield 
 detects that his shield is low, he will duck behind a rock, wait for it to recharge, and jump out 
 at you again. When the lower troops see that their commanding officer is dead, they scatter until 
 they either build up enough courage to fight again, or a lower ranked officer assumes command and 
 rallys his troops again. These concepts also apply to your allies as well making them just as 
 smart. The level structure is also well balanced with new twists and turns around every corner, 
 cleverly designed interior structures, and very lifelike environments. One of the few complaints 
 that people may have with the single player mode is the fact that some levels devolve into a series 
 of absurdly winding corridors and hallways that can make people kind of claustrophobic at times. 
 However, I dont see that as a negative concept because Halo has this dark, desolate mysterious 
 dark shadow like force that follows the Master Chief wherever he goes. I could have sworn that 
 there was something behind me that night when I played the level known as 343 Guilty Spark, shut 
 off all the lights, and put my headset on. In the end this gameplay is unique, flawless, and well 
 divided between balance, adventure, and combat.
  
  The multiplayer mode adds even more replay value. With a diverse amount of modes to choose from, 
 plus the ability to control virtually everything in the game you host, it makes for a nearly endless 
 variety and hours and hours of gameplay. For example, you can control what vehicles and how many 
 of that specific vehicle (s) is in your game. You can control how much health each player has, what 
 percent of energy shielding they have, and you can even choose whether or not they have shields. 
 You can choose what type of weapons there are, whether players have infinite grenades or not, and 
 many other ways that provide an endless combination of games. One of the few complaints people 
 might have about the multiplayer mode is the fact that both bases are identical. If you know your 
 base, you know your enemies. This makes for a very boring experience when you play capture the 
 flag, because both teams flags are in the same position. By that piece of information, if you 
 know where your flag is, you know your enemies. That does not make for a diverse and immersive 
 experience. Other than that however, the multiplayer mode is the best out of all the modes in this 
 game.
  
  In the end, with its outstanding graphical performance, pure sound, and diverse gameplay, Halo 
 is an enjoyable experience for just about everyone and is almost perfect in nearly every way. If 
 you don't like this game, then either you have serious mental issues, or you simply do not know 
 what is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netjack
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  If you've played the xbox version of Halo, then you'd have already set the expectation bar pretty 
 high because that game did not disappoint. Halo makes no changes to the core game, but adds a bunch 
 of cool stuff.
  
  Obviously you now have the opportunity to use a mouse and keyboard, which allows for greater flexibility 
 and accuracy. I personally prefer a gamepad over the mouse/keyboard combo because it's more comfortable 
 and I cramp up after 2-3 hours of straight Halo at my PC, but it doesn't really noticably affect 
 the gameplay one way or the other. Well, you do miss out on the force feedback!
  
  With the PC version you also have a HUGE jump in clarity and certain graphical effects like the 
 lighting and textures are improved. Yet, beyond draw distance, some textures, lighting and the 
 resolution the graphics are surprisingly similar to the xbox version. At the time of it's release 
 however, it was perfectly acceptable and nice to look at.
  
  Finally, the PC version does make some actual additions to the game. Most notably the online multiplayer, 
 which is a blast and was missing from the original Halo. Added into the multiplayer is some great 
 new maps (5 I believe but don't quote me on that) and two new weapons. You can also now fly banshees 
 and use shades in the multiplayer. The banshees are fun, especially on some of the big new maps 
 like "infinity" and "death island" but the shades are much too inaccurate for my liking.
  
  The reason I didn't give halo a 10 for gameplay was because I really, strongly believe a 2 player 
 online co-op campaign option should have been implemented. The PC's at the time of release were 
 more than capable of handling it, the game had already sold millions and been rated top-notch across 
 the board, I don't see what bungie had to lose by putting in the option so many of us system link 
 xbox party goers would die for. The graphics I gave an 9 because even though they were improved, 
 they weren't quite up to the standards some other games were setting at the time of Halo's release.
 
  
  Unfortunately, I am doing this review quite late in the games life, like a year after it's release. 
 This is due to the fact that I'm playing it a lot in anticipation of the xbox 360 as I sold my 
 xbox and paid off an xbox 360 per-order. I also have a brand new HDTV that looks beautiful in PC 
 games that support 1280x720. And that Halo PC does very nicely! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  If you've played the xbox version of Halo, then you'd have already set the expectation bar pretty 
 high because that game did not disappoint. Halo makes no changes to the core game, but adds a bunch 
 of cool stuff.
  
  Obviously you now have the opportunity to use a mouse and keyboard, which allows for greater flexibility 
 and accuracy. I personally prefer a gamepad over the mouse/keyboard combo because it's more comfortable 
 and I cramp up after 2-3 hours of straight Halo at my PC, but it doesn't really noticably affect 
 the gameplay one way or the other. Well, you do miss out on the force feedback!
  
  With the PC version you also have a HUGE jump in clarity and certain graphical effects like the 
 lighting and textures are improved. Yet, beyond draw distance, some textures, lighting and the 
 resolution the graphics are surprisingly similar to the xbox version. At the time of it's release 
 however, it was perfectly acceptable and nice to look at.
  
  Finally, the PC version does make some actual additions to the game. Most notably the online multiplayer, 
 which is a blast and was missing from the original Halo. Added into the multiplayer is some great 
 new maps (5 I believe but don't quote me on that) and two new weapons. You can also now fly banshees 
 and use shades in the multiplayer. The banshees are fun, especially on some of the big new maps 
 like "infinity" and "death island" but the shades are much too inaccurate for my liking.
  
  The reason I didn't give halo a 10 for gameplay was because I really, strongly believe a 2 player 
 online co-op campaign option should have been implemented. The PC's at the time of release were 
 more than capable of handling it, the game had already sold millions and been rated top-notch across 
 the board, I don't see what bungie had to lose by putting in the option so many of us system link 
 xbox party goers would die for. The graphics I gave an 9 because even though they were improved, 
 they weren't quite up to the standards some other games were setting at the time of Halo's release.
 
  
  Unfortunately, I am doing this review quite late in the games life, like a year after it's release. 
 This is due to the fact that I'm playing it a lot in anticipation of the xbox 360 as I sold my 
 xbox and paid off an xbox 360 per-order. I also have a brand new HDTV that looks beautiful in PC 
 games that support 1280x720. And that Halo PC does very nicely! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  When Halo 2 was released, it was initially bought by rabid fan boys who lined up outside for days. 
 Witnessing scenes of these screaming throngs on TV, I had to wonder, "Have the Beatles landed again?" 
 But no, this isn't 1963 or 1964 or whatever year the Fab Four touched down in America. This is 
 the new millennium, a time when you'd think people wouldn't go crazy for just another disposable 
 corporate SKU.
  
  Their furor was based on the original Halo: Combat Evolved, a game that's certainly okay -- it's 
 fun -- but not the greatest thing since sliced Beatles. The enemies are enjoyable, especially the 
 laughable Grunts who run in panic, shouting "He'll kill us all!" But the weapons seem weak, lacking 
 visceral punch. Halo's "innovation" of players being able to carry only a few guns, instead of 
 a full arsenal, isn't a hot feature. I don't want to make an "either-or" choice, dropping one weapon 
 to use another. I buy FPS games to shoot bad guys and watch stuff blow up real good. Why is destroying 
 junk with two weapons considered good game design, while using 10 is considered bad?
  
  Another sore point with Halo is the generic, repetitive, bland levels. One hallway looks just like 
 the next. They're colorful, but the level design overall lacks detail, variety and depth.
  
  Of course, multiplayer in Halo is awesome, obviously inspiring some of Unreal Tournament 2004's 
 content. But then again, the multiplay of Counter Strike and America's Army are awesome too, and 
 they're available for free...
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcoregamer5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:53 am PT
Review:  This games got it all from a great, complex, challenging storyline, to amazing visuals to the online 
 multiplayer.
  
  The storyline is deep and complex. You play The Master Chief a great warrior who was frozen until 
 needed, when the coven attack Your ship. It all goes to destorying halo. One of the most challenging 
 levels is the library. that's when you have to follow this little computer and the fludd is everywhere.
 
  
  The visuals are simply Beatiful bungie did the most amazing job just on the computer. The xbox 
 visual are probally better.
  
  The Multiplayer is great that's one of the many reasons this game is on top of sales charts. there 
 are many modes of killing your opponent online.
  
  All in all. This game is one of the most greatest game alive. A must for the shooter fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game looks very good with a score like 9.0 and all these reviews saying that this is the best 
 game ever and you must buy this. i beg to differ, i wish i hadnt bought this game.
  
  This game is hard and the level design is not very good, all the corridors look similair and the 
 hills and all that looks similair and the enemies are too hard and the noises they make dont match 
 their looks, you expect someone to be fierce but they sound like theyre on helium.
  
  Also theyre everywhere and its no fun killing them over and over again, sometimes youre surrounded 
 by the same enemy and you get killed, no fun.
  
  The levels are long, only because you have to run around the whole place which is like a huge maze 
 to find a point which then takes you back to another one and so on, its boring.
  
  the weapons in this game are good, and the way you change them and the melee attacks are good but 
 otherwise theres not much about this game that i can say is good apart from the music.
  
  Dont buy this game, look for something else like quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:26 am PT
Review:  other than that it is good and i am looking forward to owning halo CE and it is THE most playable 
 game on my shelf at the moment. i found there wasnt enough guns to go boom and zap and zzzzzzzzzzzzz 
 akkkaaa kkaaaaaaaaa BANG. but still there is a lot of replay value plus all the gunfights that 
 will be had will allways rock. I just wish they release halo 2 on pc and have a tonne more multiplayer 
 maps in it. oh man if they did that it will be an experence that will top unreal tournament 2004 
 10 times over. come on bungee make it happen. please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  if your looking for a bad review your not gonna get it. this is probably one of my fav. shooters.
 
  
  
  
  awsome ai!!!! they're smart and they take cover almost all the time they also use the melee attack 
 quite often. the guns are awsome although there arent alot of them. 
  
  
  
  man this is a gripping story....... really good
 
  
  
  
  pretty good the explosions make a cool efect. and its awsome to here the birds lol
  
  
 
  
  if you get a good graphic card, you are gonna have some pretty nice scenery and blood
  
  
  
  the multiplayer in halo is top notch. there 
 are tons of levels to choose from and it supports up to 18 people. the big maps are nice and big 
 (obviously) and are fun to explore. 
  
  
  in all this is a great game i would highly sugest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koronatheif77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  like i said awsome game great images i cant help the feeling of playing it the its just awsome 
 im a great halo fan played a great deal of halo they get better and better to me you could have 
 your opinon i dont care i like every thing about the game images i saw before playing it i was 
 like i have got to play it no matter what its just exicting hints and cheats great help still playing 
 it been playing for the longest time i might be sleeping or bored to death without the game boy 
 i cant stop playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofakingdom92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  this is super awesome! especially on PC. this is because on PC you can also do online play with 
 is good for me because i have broadband internet. the fastest internet ever. my computer runs a 
 state of the art DOOM 3 graphics card. it works especially good for halo (even better than DOOM 
 3) seriously. i even beat the campaign on legendary in less than 2 weeks. it took me 4 hours of 
 my day trying to beat that last level. i am the greatest player of halo 2 xbox live. on the charts, 
 i am number 1. anyone wants to face me? evn on pc. my server name is forever sofakingdom. be on 
 the lookout! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante650
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 5:33 am PT
Review:  I AM A PS2 GAMER AND I THOUGHT IT WAS UNFAIR THAT XBOX GAMERS GOT ALL THE FUN OF HALO. SO WHEN I 
 HEARD IT WAS COMING TO PC, I WAS OVERJOYED!
  I THOUGHT THAT IT WAS JUST LIKE THE XBOX VERSION, THE GRAPHICS ARE GREAT, THE SOUND WAS EXCEPTIONAL, 
 AND THE ACTION IS AMAZING!
  I REALLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME TO ANY-ONE, THE LEVELS ARE LONG AND FULFILLING AND THE WEAPONS GREAT, THE 
 AI SMART AND THE ENEMIES CHALLENGING.
  MICROSOFT HAVEN'T TAKEN ANY THING FROM IT, BUT THERE IS ONE PROBLEM: THE CHECKPOINTS. EVERY TIME 
 YOU COME TO A CHECK POINT, THE GAME FREEZES FOR ABOUT 5-6 SECONDS. NOW I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS JUST 
 MY COMPUTER BUT I THINK IT DOES TAKE AWAY SOME OF THE EXCITEMENT. PERFECT CONTROL SYSTEM.
  OVERALL, AN EXCELLENT GAME, A FEW GLITCHES BUT NOTHING TOO BIG. GET THIS NOW!!! (IF YOU DON'T HAVE 
 AN XBOX) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonHampster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  for a pc game it's not that good, even for it's time. but now there are games like FEAR and Half 
 Life 2, UT 2004, it just cant stand up for itself. Thats why I think they went to the xbox. the 
 pc version is....... well funner theres more to do, easier to mod. Modding halo is the funnest 
 thing ive done in a while. I, personally would buy the pc version for 1. online 2. rocket launcher 
 warthog
  3. FUEL ROD CANNON. I dont know why they didnt put that stuff in the first one. there are very 
 few really good fps on pc that are really worth playing again and again. Halo is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about HALO in 2000 and it's development for PC , I was jazzed by what I read.
 
  Then the other shoe fell.
  Micro$oft bought out the company creating the game, why? so it could be PORTED to Xbox.
  
  
 So what happened........ we end up with a game that has dated graphics and so-so game play.
  But to give credit where credit is due, the Multiplayer aspect kills, and sadly this is the only 
 thing worthwhile about HALO.
  
  Had HALO been released to PC first ( as it was originally planed) we would probably have a game 
 with better graphics and superior replayability.
  
  I weep for what we will never know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt14500
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  An awesome game. I'm new to Halo. I have not played it on the Xbox but the PC rocks. It has great 
 audio, the graphics are impressive and the voice acting is also great. It's a great futuristic 
 FPS that probably most people would enjoy. It has fun and enjoyable weapons, you can kill your 
 team-mates which makes it more realistic. You can also drive vehicles which makes the game even 
 better than it is. The missions aren't too hard (depending on what difficulty you have it on.) 
 This game is addictive and it's pne of the best FPS shooters I've played on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  this game might be the best first person shooter ever on any console.
  
  the graphics on this game are superb. they give very tiny details that makes every thing on a grander 
 scale.
  
  For the PC the multiplayer over internet connections are awsome. up to 16 players at ounce and 
 9 maps with 6 new maps from the Xbox title.
  
  Halo is a game that goes into the future but doesn't go to far with everything . all the weapons 
 and vehicles have the basic design as they do know so it gives that feeling of realness in a Sci-fi 
 futuristic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one-ring
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Halo came in like an addicting plague for all of those with an XBOX and still all you hear is Halo, 
 Halo, Halo. I recently got this game for PC to check out what people were really talking about. 
 As I started to play single player I got so hooked before I knew it five minutes became three hours. 
 I have to say this is a VERY well developed game in terms of gameplay and graphics. The story ran 
 smoothly and its elements fell into place quite smoothly. I didn't really have any dislikes about 
 this game and I still play it almost more than any game. I mostly play this game on multiplayer 
 because I find the real fun playing against other skilled people. Overall I'd say this is a perfect 
 game and will surely last for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoo3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy sitting around playing Halo when there isn't anything to do or if I'm waiting on 
 the old lady to get ready to go somewhere, because it will only take her "5 minutes." Halo is by 
 far the best game on the Xbox. And playing it on the PC might give you, like it gives me a new 
 experience with an older game.
  
  First off the graphics, running on an NVIDIA 6600 GT, look great and the textures don't pop as 
 they do on my Xbox. Go ahead and crank up the textures, particles, specular maps, etc in the video 
 settings and enjoy.
  
  The next improvement I find when I play on the PC is the ability to kill the game's music and play 
 another music source. By far, my favorite music to listen to while playing Halo on the PC is Groove 
 Salad. You can stream it for free from SomaFm. com. I use Winamp. It's a cool mix of music that 
 really goes along with Halo gameplay. For me, it really has the vibe of Halo. Try it, you just 
 might like it.
  
  Some might find it easier to target enemies and pull off headshots better with the mouse. I play 
 it so much on the Xbox, I really don't notice.
  
  Mulitplayer has some added features, such as the flamethrower and the Warthog with the mounted 
 rocket launcher, instead of the machine gun. I find the flamethrower to be useless and can understand 
 why it was removed from the Xbox version. You can also play over the internet through GameSpy or 
 just hookup a bunch of PC's for a LAN party (the latter is a little harder to coordinate) . 
  
  There are some things that the PC version can't give me that my Xbox version does. They include 
 the ability to kick back on my couch, play the game in surround sound with 125 watts per channel, 
 and use my 36" Sony TV. On my PC, I am limited to sitting in my office chair in front of my 24" 
 monitor and listening to the somewhat acceptable audio coming through the Altec Lansing stereo 
 speakers. 
  
  All in all, I find the PC version of Halo to be another great game to own. Right now you can probably 
 pick it up for around 20 bucks brand new from the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvsqvc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Halo is the best game i've ever played in my whole life. Tons of awsome wepons and vehicles. Nice 
 and smooth gameplay. Many different enime's to mow down. Awsome A. I. Thats only the half of it!. 
 Not only is the single player fun, but the multiplayer is too and it's probely the best multiplayer 
 i have ever seen. To me this version of Halo has way better multiplayer then the x-box version, 
 but there is one minor problem with it, no co-op. On the bright side is Halo CE, where you can 
 make mods and play them. This means Halo PC is the game that never dies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PureDemon-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 12:53 am PT
Review:  Halo is a FPS like no other the game basicly tells the story of the Master Chief the last of the 
 human super soldiers. Tied in a war against an alliance of alien races called the Covenant.
  
  Halo is a very good FPS experience with a very smart AI capable of taking cover throwing grenades 
 and running away from grenade's.
  
  Basicly the graphics are stunning for the time sure its not top line but the enviroments look stunning 
 and amazing. There is also a multiplayer mode although it has the new famous Halo lag. This is 
 because of the many people with different connections and stuff. Multiplayer can be team orientated 
 or just solo- deathmatch.
  
  If your looking for a solid FPS with loads of action this is your game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  Hey! This game is so easy! I beat it on easy in total time in less than a day. Then I beat it half 
 of it on medium in less than an hour the day I beat easy. So, I got so board I just stopped playing. 
 And its more fun on the Xbox the only reason I have it on computer is that I needed a new computer 
 game. Also on Xbox you can play multiplayer with your friends in the same room. But you know what 
 it is still fun, because it's Halo. And you can't ever not like Halo. One of the best series ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Halo was seen as a revolutionary game when it originally came out on the Xbox years ago. It hit 
 the PC several years later and when I finally got around to playing this so called wonderful game 
 saying I was disappointed is an understatement. The game begins with a fairly solid opening sequence 
 explaining everything you need to know about what is going on, and then puts you in control of 
 the Master Chief; the usually silent protagonist of Halo.
  
  Halo has standard first person shooter gameplay but tries to limit the player to only being able 
 to carry two weapons at once which is a nice and much more realistic feature than what is usually 
 in shooters. The vehicles are nice, but they never take damage which is inexcusable. You can drive 
 off of a cliff and smash headfirst into the ground below and the worst that will happen is your 
 passenger and gunner will die, but it is more likely that both you and they will emerge unscathed 
 which is ridiculous to say the least.
  
  My biggest gripe with the gameplay is not its vehicles however, but its level design. Halo features 
 some of the poorest level design Ive ever encountered in my experience with first person shooters. 
 The first two levels, the Pillar of Autumn and the first planet mission are fairly well crafted, 
 but after that the entire game falls apart in that department. More than three quarters of the 
 game are plagued by lazy level designers copying and pasting the same room while not editing the 
 architecture at all, and since the game has no real static decorations; it can often be difficult 
 to discern one room from another; especially in the later levels.
  
  Some argue that the multiplayer is what makes Halo, and that is another one of Halos weak areas. 
 Like single player, the level design in multiplayer is weak and not because it is repetitive, but 
 because the levels are too small and either too cluttered or too empty. Gearbox managed to bring 
 some actually decent multiplayer maps to the table in the PC version, but theres still the problem 
 of immortal vehicles and not to mention you have no choice but to use the Master Chief player model.
 
  
  The graphics in Halo serve their purpose; the textures however are low-res and Gearbox made no 
 effort in creating high-res textures for the PC port. The character models however are nicely detailed 
 and the mouth movements match what the characters are saying very well. The animations for the 
 character models are smooth and the explosion effects look very nice.
  
  The sound is definitely Halos best area, it features nice gun sounds and superb voice acting. 
 The voices fit the character personalities well, Master Chief sounds like a silent, deep and tough 
 individual and the aliens; despite the fact that they speak English also have matching voices. 
 The music is wonderful, its well done and sets the mood for locations and certain events; I havent 
 seen a score as atmospheric as Halos since Unreal.
  
  The controls are decent for the most part, but the mouse sensitivity setting does not go high enough. 
 I often feel as if mouse looking is sluggish because even on the max setting turning seems to be 
 slow but for the most part the controls are few and easy to learn since this is after all a console 
 port.
  
  Halo is a popular game, but frankly, I didnt find it all that impressive. The poor level design 
 ruined the experience for me, but I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys first person shooters 
 for them to form their own opinion. Ultimately how much you like Halo will come down to how important 
 to you level design is. Overall however Ill be honest, Halo is a simple console FPS port that 
 features poor level design. This may have been a great game for a console shooter, but on the PC 
 there are many better shooters and a good portion of them arent even as popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Halo for the PC is a good port for the PC. It brings one of the greatest Videogames ever into household 
 PCs. It adds some content and areas to the original Halo that make it worth getting. 
  It has improved graphics and adds the best feature of all, Online head to head. Coming with the 
 improved Multiplayer are a handfull of new maps. Timberland, Death Island, Ice fields, Gephoyrephopia, 
 Infinity, and Danger Canyon.
  Also it is compatible with Halo CE, or Custom Edition, via download, which gives you a chance to 
 design your own maps and content.
  
  A MUST FOR HALO FANS WITH A PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  The original halo is just like the one on PC with a few exceptions, first the Xbox version, was 
 good but only had 3 vehicles a dozen maps (more or less) and a few weapons. Then the PC version, 
 the same thing but with a new vehicle, the banshee!!! and 2 new weapons, The Fuel rod cannon ( 
 AKA hunter gun) and the Flamethrower. Along with 4 new maps and i guess new armor colors. Also 
 its the same graphics if you modify them. the best part..... FREE ONLINE PLAY!!!!!!!! not only 
 that but i forgot to mention.... A BLACK ROCKET WARTHOG!!!!! enjoy playing it if you decide to. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysour
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 13, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  This was a great game, I only played Easy I'm sad to say, but when I played that it was still fun. 
 My favorite feature is probably everyone elses favorite too, Multiplayer, I have incredible fun 
 playing multiplayer, even though I wasn't very good at it but I've gotten better and now and I 
 can hold up even against the elite players.
  
  My overview of the Single Player is as follows:
  Very nice story, I love the ring world Halo 
 and the mystery that surrounded it when I started playing. I really liked the enemies and different 
 species that make the alien races of the Covenant and the Flood, which I thought were especially 
 creepy, so anyway I like the game and I want to play it again when I feel like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesuspotpie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 17, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  What else can I say about this game, that you probably dont already know? Fine I will tell you 
 anyway. Pont blank, YOU NEED TO COP THIS GAME IF YOU DON'T ALREADY HAVE IT! If you dont have a 
 X-BOX, and you dont feel the need to pay $100 just to get the platfrom to play this, but you at 
 the same time have a midrange, or high end PC you need to get this. You may say "well I already 
 have Half Life 2, why do I need this? I feel even if its not your cup of tea that you should get 
 it just for the history. If you are a hardcore gamer, and you dont have the XBOX version of any 
 of the Halo's, or at least the PC version I dont know how you can wake up in the morning, and look 
 at yourself in the mirror. The secong installment of this game rocked the gaming world! It was 
 the only that I have ever seen where Kids where running down halls yelling Halo2 November 3rd! 
 This was all because of this game. 
  I was fortunate to have the oppurtunity to play this game on a integrated GPU, and a 6600GT. One 
 thing that surprised me was when I first got it I didnt know how powerfull my integrated GPU was. 
 After I installed it, it said that I was below the system requirements! It still let me play, and 
 to my surprise my framerate never dropped below 30 FPS on the Lowest possible settings! Sure the 
 game looked like crap, and I couldnt read signs in the environment, also half the people were faceless, 
 but it played well, and was just as fun. When I got my 6600GT, it was awesome! The gameplay is 
 mostly like other first person shooters run here shoot here, but the A. I is great, and the enimy's, 
 even though theres only like 5 models of them are really cool, and the music, and sounds they make 
 add to the tension when you walk down a hall. up to 16 players can play at once, but you better 
 have a T1 connection if you want to play with that many. The only complain I have is voice chat, 
 I really wish they would have incorperated it into the PC version, but oh whel, its all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2005 5:32 am PT
Review:  Halo is one of the best FPSs out there and it doesn't even take that great of a computer to play 
 it. In the single player campign you play Master Chief who apparently just woke up from hibernation, 
 the covenant attack your ship which starts your big adventure. The covenant are just the sterotypical 
 aliens, they're attacking you for some reason you don't know why yet. There are 4 types of alien 
 enemies: Grunts (Which you will see all the time) Brutes (One or two per pack of grunts) Jackals 
 (Like grunts, or travel like grunts but have shields) and Hunters (Who are big and hard to beat, 
 you'll see them in pairs and rarely) . There's also the variations of the Brutes, invisable ones, 
 ones with swords, etc. I don't want to give anything away so the story will stop from there.
  
  The gameplay is great, you can hold up to two guns at a time, you normally start with an assault 
 rifle and a pistol. You can pick up guns from enemy troops or fallen troops on your side. There 
 are quiet a few weapons: Assault Rifle, Pistol, Rocket Launcher, Shotgun, Plasma Pistol, Needler, 
 The Brute Gun, and Sniper rifle. Other weapons can be accesed during multiplayer. The health system 
 is well done, you have a sheild and 6 health bars, your shield regenerates so you don't ever have 
 1HP left or anything, the problem is it won't always recharge when you want it too. You could be 
 hidding behind a rock trying not to shoot or anything so it will recharge, but it just won't cause 
 enemies are near you, which gets annoying at the 3rd to last level. But other then that there aren't 
 many problems, you get a flashlight that you can turn on while holding a gun, and a melee attack 
 for close encounters or when running out of ammo. However at times your teammates are useles. On 
 easy mode they rarely die and help out a lot, on Normal Mode they die within seconds and barley 
 hit anything which gets to be annoying.
  
  The main part of the game is multiplayer, you can pick from over 10 differnt maps and have a wide 
 variety of games to choose from, Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, King of the Hill, Race, and some 
 other oringal ideas, you can also customize game types and end up creating your own game type which 
 is great, it's fun to play with and funner to see in action. The multiplayer supports up to 16 
 people (8v8 or  There are vehicles that you can use with your teammates 
 or just yourself, there's the Banshee, Ghost, Scorpian, Warthog, and Warthog#2. The 2nd warthog 
 has a rocket launcher on the top while the first one has a machine gun. The Warthog can sit 3, 
 ghost and banshee sit 1 and scorpian seats 5. Not all of them are balanced though, like there's 
 almost no chance a warthog and beat a scorpain, and a banshee basically rules them all out. The 
 guns aren't really that even either and some of the maps are disadvantaged to a team due to terrian. 
 Which makes some maps unfun and don't give you a great expirance. But for the most part they are 
 tons of fun.
  
  Unfortunaly the sequel of the game isn't for PC, but that means there are more people on network 
 for the first one, which means you can buy it any time. I would suggest to anyone that likes FPSs 
 and can play Counter Strike or Half Life on their computer to get this game, it'll last you a good 
 time, but not forver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathaniel14
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Halo for PC is still a fun game but has lost a lot of its wow power over the years. If you have 
 never played or beaten it before it is worth buying. If you already have it for Xbox then, unless 
 you want it for the online play, it is not worth buying. Also the framerate on my computer is pretty 
 crappy unless you drop the resolution and detail. It may just be because I have a PCI videocard. 
 The controls are great so don't worry about needing a game pad. If you have dial up the online 
 multiplayer lags horribly also.
  My computer has:
  2.4 Ghz
  512mb ram
  128mb Geforce FX 5500 PCI videocard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 24, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I do not care to go through all the typical jargon people go through in their reviews. I like to 
 be different and only mention what stands out to me. 
  
  My review score might seem a tad harsh on graphics and sound. This is only due to the fact I did 
 not get to play this game until early 2005. 
  
  The story was pretty cool, it kept me wanting to know how it ends. The most entertaining thing 
 about this game is the AI. They jump behind walls to take cover, they roll on the ground to evade 
 your attacks, and they take control of powerful ground weapons and vehicles. 
  
  Though the AI seems pretty scripted, this makes the game all the more fun in its own style of game 
 play. While I was playing there were times I was reminded of the good ole days of video games. 
 Remember playing contra and you had to learn the patterns of the boss battles in order to defeat 
 them? Although this game is not really like that, there are times I felt like I was playing those 
 old time games. 
  
  Over all, I had lots of fun. 
  
  One more thing I liked about this game. When you were far away from a rock it was not very detailed 
 like in real life. The closer you got the more details became visible. You could not see the little 
 cracks until you were about face to face with the rock. I wish more PC games utilized this technology. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulofgondor91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2005 1:53 am PT
Review:  Halo on the PC is just as good as the Xbox version of the game. You are cast as a sor of Super 
 Soilder called Master-Chief. Although you never really find out much about your charecter it really 
 draws you into the story of the events going on around you. It starts out of this Spaceship called 
 "The Pillar of Atum" roughly 500 years in the future. The ship then crashlands on a huge artificial 
 world shaped like a ring and the events unfold from there. 
  
  The game features fantastic enemy AI and one battle will never play out the same way twice. Even 
 the AI of your marine buddies will impress you and a lot of the time your helping them more that 
 there helping you. 
  
  The game isn't that long, but it's still just long enough. The story never seamed to lag at any 
 points and the levels offer huge areas to explore in. However the game is not totally without flaws. 
 The level design is very repeditive almost as if the designers copy and pasted the same room 5000 
 times to make one level. However in each new room (although it may look familer to the last) the 
 combat and enemy AI is so amazing that it will keep it constantly fresh and will offer a ton of 
 replay value.
  
  The multiplayer in the game is absolutly amazing as well. It can offer up to 16 of your friends 
 (or enemies) to play on some huge maps and if features many different varieties of gameplay. This 
 game is by far the best 1st person shooter ever made, and even for non-1st person shooter fans, 
 I highly recomend checking Halo out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Inquisitor
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Halo Combat Evolved
  
  Note: I would like to note before I start that the review points (graphics, sound, ect.) on my gamespot 
 meter dont match those of the reviews text its self. This is because I had to alter the gamespot 
 meter to produce the final score I wished the game to receive. So please read through the entire 
 review to see my personal scoring of each category 
  
  I am here to bring you the top down on the new console gone computer game Halo. Before I begun 
 I would like to point out that this game is an absolute hog when it comes to requirements so unless 
 you have invested a considerable amount of money in your computer expect to have all the graphics 
 set to low.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The graphics are absolutely gorgeous, even on low they still look well done. They are kind of a 
 cross between real and cartoon (no they are not cel shaded) . The cut scenes look nice, the weapons 
 look nice, the landscape looks nice, the whole game looks nice.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound is just as good as the graphics. Plasma makes a sound as it leaves a gun, ghosts make 
 a hovering sound as the float across the landscape. The voice acting is nice too and you can even 
 make out the aliens swearing at you when you hit them with your gun. The music is very well done 
 with a combination of monks chanting and heavy techno music.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The game is good but it does have its flaws. The A. I. is very smart; they will retreat, call their 
 friends, take cover, and even warn their allies of an incoming grenade. The weapons are diverse 
 and unique though the catch is you can only hold two at a time. You can also drive vehicles and 
 use there on board weaponry, however I found them somewhat harder to drive then on the Xbox. There 
 are times in the game where you will be facing hordes of enemies which can make the battle very 
 confusing and frustrating as you may find yourself being shot at from all sides. Though the landscapes 
 are levels are open and huge I found my self lost more than once which was aggravating beyond belief. 
 That is one disadvantage over the Xbox version whereas there was a co-op mode that lets a buddy 
 help you explore.
  
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  
  There are advantages as well as disadvantages over the Xbox version in this category. The multiplayer 
 battles are better due to the bigger selection of vehicles, levels, and the easier access to 16 
 player battles (no Xbox live cable for us) . The disadvantage is more lag of course. The other big 
 disadvantage is no single player co-op mode. I could understand this if you are not on the Internet, 
 I mean it would be pretty hard to have two people playing on one computer, but I dont know why 
 they couldnt have this online.
  
  Replayability: 8/10
  
  Once you finish the reasonably short single player there is still multiplayer which offers tons 
 of replayability assuming you can find a lag free server
  
  Final Score: 7/10
  
  It is an all right game if youre computer can handle it but I would recommend you let the price 
 go down a bit before you buy this title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the games that you could play not ones, not twice but as you wish many times and 
 for many years. So fast and rolling that you never had the chance to stop for a while. At my opinion 
 Halo 2 must come out for the pc and it will be a very smashing hit like this one. The sound is breathtaking 
 and the graphics are splendid. Storyline is less than others but who cares. The game is so demanding 
 on your nervs that it will be over like just a breeze. Superb game and my favorite of all my games, 
 and my collection is very different indeed.
  Hopefully there will be in the next future games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDoom007
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 14, 2005 3:16 am PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved is a very popular game that has charmed players worldwide, that can be from 
 the XBOX version or the PC version, of course you can play this game and agree with the increasing 
 amount of fans of this game, or you can simply find this game kind of average, the options are 
 up to you.
  
  When you play this game you will notice quite quickly that the game play just like much other first 
 person shooters available for the PC, nothing new, but there are some key factors that put this 
 game in a different spot than most of the shooters, for example, instead of a full arsenal at your 
 disposal the whole time you can only carry a couple of weapons a the time (which you can switch 
 back and forth whenever you want) , also you can count on your trustworthy grenades for clearing 
 overpopulated areas.
  
  Graphics look dated, actually, looks exactly the same as the XBOX version, not necessarily a bad 
 thing since those graphics looked cool, but you can feel that the development team could improve 
 this aspect, but if you have not played the original version when you play the PC version you find 
 nice graphics that will please you with good detail amount and great modeling of the world around 
 you, its amazing, yet something might be missing.
  
  The sound on Halo is great, simply that, the voice acting sounds inspired and deep (in some cases) , 
 the music is also great but in some areas can be misplaced, cooling down some of the heat of the 
 combat.
  
  Halo does feature a multiplayer mode, the modes available are the Slayer mode (the same old deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch) , Capture the flag and Oddball, the modes are interesting and add some replay 
 value to this game, tough the modes are kind of slow paced, this might be a little drawback.
  
  In conclusion, Halo: Combat Evolved is a great game that can prove to be entertaining and good, 
 but the options of the game might make this game seem like an average shooter that can be overshadowed 
 by other action games on the market, even tough this game is a great option to play if you are 
 eager to play this game and you don't have a XBOX available to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken_gamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Yeah that's right, it's an excellent PC game (Xbox owners anywhere?) . Anyone who has not played 
 it deserves to be shot by the Master Chief.
  
  Let's start with gameplay. It's a first person shooter first and foremost. The only machine they 
 work best with is the PC and its mouse, not a console and a controller. It was very, very fun playing 
 Halo. It was pretty hard but hard work pays off.
  
  On to graphics, yes it looks great too, jags or whatever, they really compliment the gameplay in 
 the sense that I would not have give it a 10 if it were not for the graphics. Everything is also 
 so detailed it's enchanting.
  
  Sound in this game is perfection +1, every shot from your weapons and the ambient background noises 
 and music all gives this game an excellent atmostphere. Can't complain here, anyone who hears it 
 could and probably should guess right off the bat that this is a sci-fi themed game.
  
  I'll skip value and reviewer's tilt cause I'm a lazy bum. Bottom line, you either own the game 
 or get shot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinx1000
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 10, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I started this game just a few days ago, and after a slow start, it's picking up the pace a bit. 
 Using the different vehicles has to be my fav so far; getting air over a bump in a Warthog and 
 causing the shooter in the back to holler "yeehaw!" is great fun! I also like some of the comments 
 made by the extras ("Get up, so I can kill you again!") but I anticipate that becoming a bit old 
 as the game goes on. Only being able to carry 2 weapons makes it a bit of a challenge when the 
 fighting becomes intense, especially when the Hunters show up; fortunately, whenever someone (or 
 something) dies, they drop all their ammo for you to grab while you're dodging energy bolts and 
 plasma grenades.
  I do wish the makers had put a little more intensity into the game, like being harried continuously 
 by the occasional alien scout, instead of just coming a across a group of aliens and fighting a 
 pitched battle every few minutes, knowing that when you kill the Hunters or see the "checkpoint 
 secure" flash on your screen that you're done for the time being. But we'll see; I'm only at the 
 beginning, and these are just my initial impressions.
  
  Well, I finished the game, and I have to say I was a bit disappointed. The repeated themes grew 
 very old very quickly, and nothing materialized after a certain point to make the game more challenging; 
 it ended up being the same old thing over and over again, with maybe a few more aliens added to 
 the mix to make it more difficult, but not more challenging. So I'm afraid I'm going to downgrade 
 my initial review score a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imitsu
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 10, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Way back when the Xbox was young and the girls were pretty, Halo stormed onto shelves in the awe 
 and aspiration of all. It dazzled all with its then cutting edge graphics and sound, and its wonderfully 
 captivating story. Some years later, a third party company ports Halo over to the PC. Much less 
 are awed and aspired, much less are dazzled and amazed - but don't get me wrong, this is surely 
 something to celebrate about for all of the hardcore PC fanatics out there. Now you TOO can experience 
 the wonder that is Halo for the PC.
  
  With all that said, what's so great about it? What IS so wonderfully captivating about Halo that 
 captured the attention of millions and brought the Xbox into the leader of the pack? What? Well, 
 for starters, it is probably one of the very few games following the FPS genre on a console that 
 was actually worth playing. For another, it had a fairly decent story. Last but not least, it sounded 
 great. So, how has this translated to the PC? Read on, my friend, and see for yourselves.
  
  First off, the gameplay is better, in my opinion, now that it's on the PC. Considering that 
 you now have the tried and true mouse n' keyboard combo at your disposal, simply navigating the 
 maps (multiplayer or otherwise) is that much easier. This makes the gaming experience overall a 
 lot more enjoyable. Also, what makes the gaming experience arguably better is that you can go above 
 the annoying 30 frames-per-second lock issued by Bungee on the Xbox version - if your PC is man 
 enough to handle it, of course. This makes navigation in the game world a lot smoother (understandably) . 
 Now that you can merely map any key on your keyboard (or mouse, if you have one of the fancier 
 Logitechs like myself) to whatever you please makes the customization aspect of the gameplay that 
 much better - considering that you really could only customize so much on the Xbox version as far 
 as controls were concerned.
  
  Secondly, it sounds better if you have the right hardware. If you are fortunate enough to have 
 one of the mid-range to higher-end Creative Labs sound cards, and an appropriate speaker setup, 
 you will be enthralled by what audio Halo PC has to offer. Every plasma shot and bullet ricochet 
 can be heard in full blown EAX enabled surround sound, if you so desire. This definately is a bonus 
 for me, being a self proclaimed audiophile of sorts. However, on one of my test machines I noticed 
 rather annoying clicking and popping sounds coming from my speakers when I used the integrated 
 sound that my Asus motherboard had to offer with the nForce2 chipset (Realtek audio) . Since, apparently 
 the Xbox uses a similar audio solution on its hardware (nforce2 chipset and all, expect that the 
 audio is full 5.1) , this shouldn't have been an issue. However, a simple driver update seemed to 
 have solved this problem for me, so all was good and I could sleep soundly once again.
  
  Unfortunately, on the third aspect, the multiplayer, is not AS good as the Xbox version, yet better 
 THAN the Xbox version all at once. The fact that you can play online with your friends is quite 
 the bonus (however, you can also do this with Xboxconnect, for example) , but the fact that this 
 gameplay is usually laden with horrible latency issues is another thing. Having a 5mbit connection 
 myself (which is a bit above average) , I expected to have no such problem (even while living in 
 Canada, no other games seem to give me this problem on the PC) . To my dismay, my latency would 
 sky rocket to an astounding 150-250 at times, which is hugely unacceptable. Fortunately, there 
 has been a patch released some time ago to "allegedly" fix these issues - which it, for the most 
 part, does. Although, I can't help but think that this simple aspect hindered Halo PC's sales in 
 the beginning (and then some, since the patch was long overdue) .
  
  And finally, the storyline remains wholey intact, which I am happy to see. Really, it is a good 
 story line (however, I have seen better) , and I was pleased from start to finish. I can see why 
 Xbox owners and console fanatics in general were so pleased with Halo: it is one of the few FPS's 
 (as I have mentioned) for a console to even bother with, it has PC-quality sound, and it has a 
 decent storyline with co-operative play. That brings up one final quirk with the PC edition of 
 this wonderful game; NO CO-OPERATIVE PLAY! That certainly put a dent in my chakra, and will for 
 some time to come. But no worries, we always have the Xbox for that (which I do not have) .
  
  In conclusion, it is an excellent console game that, mostly, stayed intact from the port from 
 Xbox to the PC platform. If you're looking to see why people were so ballistic and fanatical about 
 Halo for the Xbox, pick it up - and patch it as soon as possible as to rid yoruself of the latency 
 issues in multiplayer game sessions. If you're a fan of a decent story, pick it up, and you won't 
 be disappointed. If you're wondering where the fuel-rod-cannon and the rocket-enabled warthog came 
 from, pick it up. If you're looking to generally have a good time, then yes, pick it up. It's a 
 great game that anybody from any walk of life should thoroughly enjoy from start to finish, even 
 if there are a few bugs here and there.
  
  Authors Note: You may want to disable PS 2.0 in the settings if you have a Radeon 9600 or lower 
 card (nVidia 5 series owners will want to do this to, as the 5 series cards do not properly support 
 PS 2.0) , this will make gameplay a lot smoother and generally more fun as a side effect.
  
  Yours truly,
  Brenlae "Drevay" MacMillan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoonen123
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 30, 2005 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Halo when first came out, was just awesome. But for the PC it left a lot to be desired. The graphics 
 are just plain old-school and a lot to be desired. Due the low-graphic issue the game isn't that 
 addicted, that is ashame. But I think this is a issue whit a lot of games these days. They first 
 come out on console then, when the marketing is going great they make a game for the PC a year 
 or more later. So I hope that the gamemakers just stick to there first thought and making no PC-version 
 that is exactly the same. Make then a totally different one for the PC with up to date graphics 
 if you ask me. 
  
  Halo's gameplay is just great it gives you everything you want for a shootergame, but due the old 
 state of the graphics I think there are many more games that can overrun this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amoebaman360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2005 1:40 am PT
Review:  Halo has always been praised as a legendary jump in first person shooters and i can tell you it 
 is. not anymore really, it came out years ago, but it is still one of the best games around. 
 
  
  First off are graphics. like i said, it is an old game, so apart from some cool special effects 
 and blood, the game really has okay graphics. characters are kinda blocky, facial movements unrealistic, 
 hands are just squares w/ texture etc.... but! halos colorful atmosphere and its substituting red 
 blood on aliens for orange, purple, and bright blue make it a welcome change from the blood splattered 
 halls of other FPS games.
  
  Sound is well done, you get the feeling you are in the middle of it all with great weaponry sounds, 
 and the voice acting is good, and some of the master chiefs gritty/funny comments make for some 
 good moments. my problem was that the "grunt" enemys had high pitched voices that got REALLY irritating 
 after a while.
  
  Gameplay. weaponry is well done, you have some truly kick-@$$ guns such as the 60 round assault 
 rifle, the big shotgun which can rip a squad of enemys apart in a few shots, and the armor piercing 
 pistol. the enemys are well done too, each having strengths and weaknesses, and can sometimes not 
 just be mowed down by machine guns. some enemys require flanking or smart placing of shots. vehicles 
 are well implemented into the game as well. my only gameplay complaint was that 1 or 2 levels got 
 REALLY repetitive at a certain point in time
  
  Multiplayer is some of the best multiplayer you will ever find in a game. this is almost as fun 
 as counter strike if you find a good server! multiplayer makes you laugh, can get you angry, but 
 really just delivers some great moments.
  
  finally, value. 20 bucks. can't beat that.
  
  overall, dispite some faults, halo is the legendary game its cracked up to be. this will suck 
 you in for hours, and keep you glued to multiplayer long after you finish. 9.2 out of 10 nice job 
 bungie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  Halo was released for the xbox during the xboxs launch year and for the most part it is probably 
 one of the best first person shooters ever made ... period. Now this game is out for the PC, it 
 hasnt changed much ... but thats not a bad thing because Halo 1 was ... well ... one of the best 
 FPS games ever. 
  
  This game is for the PC now, it has all of the levels from the xbox version and now has online 
 multiplayer because xbox live didnt exist when Halo was released. The graphics are a little improved 
 but could've been a little better and the sound is still spectatcular. Once again you play as the 
 Masterchief, you must fight these real smart AI opponents in the Covenant and you eventually find 
 an ancient ring that is suspossed to be some kind of weapon. You must find out about Halos secrets 
 and try to stop the Covenant from activating Halo because you dont really know what its purpose 
 is. The campaign is the same from Halo 1, if you loved it for the xbox you'll love it for the PC, 
 if you hated for the xbox this version of the game wont change your mind. And if you didnt get 
 and xbox and never got to experience this game earlier, then this is your chance to try this game 
 out. The multiplayer can hold up to 16 players online, and is probably the best reason to get this 
 game for the PC because .. well lets face it 16 players is alot better than 4. There have been 
 some new weapons in the PC version also, that werent seen in the xbox version. Like now you can 
 pick up a Fuel Rod Cannon and a Flamethrower (only for multiplayer) and now you can find banshees 
 in levels. So this makes the multiplayer expericne a little better, and the multplayer already 
 was superb to begin with. 
  
  So i'm going to make this simple. If you're looking for a great PC game then quit your waitng because 
 this is it. Halo for the xbox was a spectacualr game and now its on the PC and it is just as spectacular. 
 I think thats enough said, so what are you waiting for. 
  Get this game, play it, and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_of_fire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:32 am PT
Review:  When it comes to computer you always should know that the granddaddy of them all is Microsoft, 
 and when it comes to gaming computers can't be beat with all of their upgrades. So when you might 
 be wanting to play a game like Halo: Combat Evolved, you might think the combat (fighting) is evolved, 
 those two words aren't just there for the combat they're there for the game and all the games that 
 have come prior to the the games like Halo: COmbat Evolved, or any FPS. The best thing about this 
 game is that it just not is good in the gameplay the graphics are just amazing and what can I say 
 about the sound and gestures of the AI players.
  
  All this comes up to the game length and what about the game. Since this game has a lot of good 
 features and they are all just too good. The best thing I liked was the AI players who were just 
 amazing with all those gestures and sounds, from the begining to the end there has been a good 
 thing about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo2199
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Note: Although I still stand by my rating of Halo, I have changed tremendously as a person thanks 
 to God working on me these past years. So I am removing the hateful, violent remarks I made in 
 this review. I still believe Halo is largely terrible and mediocre at best.
  
  
  Why does every game developer and their mother do this? They start with a great concept, something 
 "new" and fresh. Then they just play the old HORROR SURVIVAL CARD. I can see the obese, diaphoretic 
 suits clustered around a pie chart... "Looks like this game will appeal to the ACNE demographic 
 and triple sales if we ruin the game completely by turning it into a boringly cliche HORROR SURVIVAL 
 fps half way through."
  
  This isn't what I wanted to play when I looked at the box. I thought I was going to play an action 
 game, not a horror zombie game. If a game is going to spend 50% of it's time knee deep in grotesque, 
 mutilated zombies, it should at least have a screenshot of it somewhere on the cover. It's such 
 a bait and switch. "Hey everyone, like guns and spaceships? Buy our game!... Oh sorry, we forgot 
 to tell you this is really a horror survival game with zombies for most of it's duration."
  
  And that my friends is exactly what this is. I just built a killer PC and decided it was time 
 to give this hyped up game a try with all the bells and whistles cranked up. The environments, 
 lighting and particle effects are pretty nice but the character models are very blocky, stiffly 
 animated and overall very dated by todays standards. The gameplay is tight and well tuned. The 
 sound design still holds up very well as you hear the fearful chatter of enemies in the dark. The 
 weapons and voice acting are strong as well. Just loads of fun out of the gates. 
  
  Then... as stated before. It takes a 180 turn and becomes yet another HORROR SURVIVAL CLICHE. FOR 
 THE LOVE OF GOD WHY? I liked this game better the first time I played it when it was called Doom. 
 Mainly because it was ORIGINAL then. What's worse is that the game never recovers from this nose 
 dive and just sucks to the very end. For shame. Blazing the trail for other perfectly "could have 
 been good" games such as F. E. A. R. and S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Even Half Life 2 had to jump on the band wagon 
 but at least it recovered and realized that it was a First Person Adventure game in the end.
  
  This reminds me of the movie "Million Dollar Baby". Which I like to call "Million Dollar Cripple". 
 It starts off as the best Rocky movie ever and then fizzles out as Hillary Swank rots away, amputates 
 and gurgles blood in suicidal paralysis for a whole damned hour. What a let down ending. At least 
 I knew it was going to be like this. Maybe Halo wouldn't of been so bad if everyone didn't just 
 jump on the Halo band wagon and say it was the best game ever because folks, it isn't. So all of 
 you new to this, you are warned. I really wish I just uninstalled Halo and threw it away the second 
 I saw the flood. I would of had 10 hours of my youth back. Alas, it is forever gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Paradox-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a very impressive game on the Xbox and PC. I know they seem similar, but I downloaded the 
 trial on my computer to compare the two. Read below to find out more.
  
  The gameplay of Halo is great. This is yet another game where you really dont have to ask where 
 to go. A quite impressive first person shooter. The PC versions controls are a little more difficult 
 then the Xbox, but it still packs a powerful punch. The game features different types of vehicles 
 like Tanks, Assault Vehicles and Aircraft. Halo blends the elements of a first person shooter and 
 action together. Halo does a nice job on its share of gameplay.
  
  Halo has its share of ups and downs on graphics. When you shoot the beasts at the beginning of 
 the game and you know you have missed the shot, they still get hurt by the shot. The characters 
 and soliders look very real as well as the surrounding buildings and structures. Another impressive 
 graphic would be when a grenade is used. When you throw a grenade and it explodes on the ground, 
 dirt shoots into the air as one in real life would also. The graphics on Halo have more good then 
 bad.
  
  The sound is one of the best things on halo. The soldiers voices sound nice and clear. The explosions 
 and vehicle engines sound great. Most of the sound in the game is clear. Gun shots, enemies being 
 shot, ect. The sound on halo is truly impressive. No problems sound wise.
  
  The long last of halo's adventure/campaign mode keeps it up in the score. You will get at least 
 20 hours out of it. Halo has a good replay value. If you dont have the sequel its most likely you 
 will want to play halo once or twice after you have beaten it. The games value is impressive. Microsoft 
 can pack many hours of gameplay into the discs.
  
  Overall Halo is the most impressive game on the PC today. It actually got me back on the computer 
 to play games yet again. Dont pass this game up if you a PC owner. You will instantly recognize 
 Halo's impressive graphics and sound. Halo brings the PC gaming industry back to life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2005 5:32 am PT
Review:  I don't really know how people play FPS games on consoles, but this game feels alot better on the 
 PC. This game is much easier to play on the PC, the controls are easier. This game isn't much of 
 an improvement over the Xbox version, except for the multiplayer portion of this game.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same, except the fact that you use the keyboard which I found it 
 to be much easier to play this game. Using the vehicles in this game is so much easier. The graphics 
 of this game are good, but you'll probably think they improve it over the Xbox version. If you 
 haven't played Halo you'll find that this game is a war game against aliens. The story is straight 
 forward and you'll won't find anything complex about this game, which is similar to any other FPS 
 game. 
  
  The only real good thing about this game is it's multiplayer. For some reason the multiplayer in 
 this game feels like Unreal Tournament. You just go around killing people and do the basic multiplayer 
 objectives. The multiplayer is pretty decent and should keep you busy for a while. If you don't 
 own an Xbox, then you should definately check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercubs54
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  This game is great and I think its the 2nd best computer game out, 2nd only to Half Life 2. This 
 game was as close to a perfect port as it can get, great gameplay, great graphics, great sound, 
 great value, and since I love the game obviously great Tilt. The graphics are as good and maybe 
 better, if you have a good graphics card, as the Xbox version, the gameplay is great, the sound 
 is just as great and sweet as the Xbox version, the value is better than the xbox version since 
 they added much needed online play and the tilt is a 10 for me since I just love seeing Halo on 
 my PC screen. In the end go buy this game, for peat sake its only $20. They are practically giving 
 it to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 14, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  Very Awesome game. Loved the multiplayer played it for many hours! Single Player on the other hand 
 lousey, annoying. Very great multiplayer but thats all about that you will enjoy. The single player 
 is horrible and levels are very long and annoying they will just anger you and bore you to death. 
 On the other hand when you play the multiplayer its highly addictive and very fun. I spent hours 
 and hours of playing it with friends over the internet. Halo for pc was the best step of gaming 
 for Bungie. Great vehicles you would enjoy and intense sniper rifle with plasma guns to melee hits 
 its a very great experience! Go ahead and try it out just make sure you play the multiplayer. Yet 
 there still are annoying sounds and graphics are slightly bad but I still recommend this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVenkman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  Halo is the best PC game because of the online multiplayer. The amount of good competition is vast. 
 There are glitch games and team slayer and race games all the time. There is a new weapon that 
 is the Flamethrower. A lot of people play online still because the online gameplay was rarely laggy 
 and there were always good games for free.
  
  If you own a good PC and have a video card I highly rccommend Halo for the PC. Halo is my favorite 
 FPS for the PC. Halo is the must own game for the PC. The gameplay is addicting and the new levels 
 are great. It is the best PC game that I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellati
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 1, 2005 9:25 am PT
Review:  I have been playing FPS (first person shooters) for awhile now, and no FPS that I have played have 
 had so much goodness and badness to it like halo. I should say right now that I prefere FPS that 
 make you use cover and are somewhat realistic. Halo is more of a run and gun game. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are decent and has aged well, but HAS aged. However there are certain 
 places, especially indoor segments that seem boring and colorless. 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is one of my favorite parts of this game. The weapons sound appropriate, and you will 
 eventually be able to tell the difference between them based on their sound alone. The voice-overs 
 are convincing but do not do much to enhance the atmosphere. The music however is very memorable, 
 and come on at appropriate times as you play. It does a great job of making the game more immersive. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where you will find as much goodness as well as badness. The controls feel great, very 
 responsive. The enemies are fun to fight, and the AI (Artificial intellgence) acts like you would 
 expect. You throw a grenade at them, and they flee. They use cover and if you get too close to 
 them, they will bash you. Personally however I do not like the low gravity when you jump, but that 
 is just my preference not a flaw with the game. Nothing revolutionary in the way you play your 
 character, but it all works wonderfully. Where this game completely falls on its behind is its 
 the level design. You will quickly find out that many of the rooms, in almost all the levels look 
 exactly like the previous. This seems very sloppy for a game that has soo much high quality gameplay 
 to it. You will find yourself back tracking a lot, and getting a serious case of deja vu as you 
 play. In most of the game you will be entering a room, fighting foes, and entering an identical 
 room with more foes, and so on. This is pretty much most of the expereince you willl have playing 
 this game. It makes you feel like your going through levels like an acarde game, rather than making 
 you feel like you are progressing through an adventure. And the level design that is there is poorly 
 designed, mainly the indoors, which is most of the game. You will constantly find something in 
 the way, as you are shooting through foes. Many of the foes come from behind you, even if you cleared 
 that area out a fraction of a second ago. Who ever designed the levels should be fired due to their 
 lack of imagination, and poor arcitect skills. If poor level design does not bother you and you 
 like run and gun FPS, you will probably like this game. But be warned! It is not only two or three 
 identical room I'm talking about. I'm talking about endless identical rooms, to the point of claustrophobia 
 . You will actually find yourself saying, "Oh thank god!" every time the scenery changes, which 
 is not often.
  
  Multiplayer:
  As I said I'm not much of a run and gun player, and this part did not interest me too much. But 
 if you like games like unreal tournament and quake, you might enjoy it. My biggest complaint though 
 is that you will freaquently have connection problems, but I assume that, that will be fixed with 
 a patch or something. Framerate is awful to.
  
  Summary:
  Halo is a great game but the poor level design really blew it for me. This is especially bad since 
 I never had a real interest in run and gun games in the first place, but I tried to be as objective 
 as possible. If you remember anything from this review, remember this: THIS GAME HAS A CRAPLOAD 
 OF IDENTICAL ROOMS, AND REALLY POOR LEVEL DESIGN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGamesElite
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I knew that Halo was a great game by mere talk, but I could never imagine what the game was really 
 like until I tried it. I don't have an X-Box, so I got it on the PC. It was great. The story mode 
 was great, but then I discovered Multiplayer mode. That was magnificent.
  Graphics are pretty great. The Elites are great, and so are the Flood. The graphics and sound are 
 awsome, but also had to the realism.
  The music is really awsome. It can bring adreniline pumping up, and also sent foreboding into your 
 gut. Really great; the chant one was really great.
  Gameplay is great too. First-Persons always are great on the PC, but it was really easy to use. 
 The gameplay is fast paced, and you aren't waiting for the game to load at all.
  Story mode is a jewel on all of Gamedom. You are the super powered marine known as Master Chief, 
 who is in the middle of a war against the fanatical religous group known as the Covanent. Your 
 ship crash lands onto a mysterious ring world called Halo, and you must find the secrets of this 
 world before the Covanent do. For a game with no boss, you'll be hooked.
  However, the real jewel is Multiplayer mode. Here, you can play all over the world with other players. 
 Fun, but if you don't like the f word, then don't hang out here. If you go there, watch out for 
 DaGamesElit, because that would be me!
  All in all, a great game that, if not in ones collection, should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2005 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Halo: Combat Evolved is a fantastic achievement in the FPS genre. It is fast-paced and tactical 
 enough to keep the player involved. Its story is adequate as most games with sci-fi settings go. 
 Halo has a terrific soundtrack and good quality graphics. But the best part of the game lies in 
 something else: the gameplay.
  
  The beauty of Halos gameplay revolves around three ideas. Firstly, the enemy AI is fantastic. 
 They flank you, throw grenades, and work together in packs to destroy you. One of the key features 
 that I liked is the assortment of enemies you face right from the beginning. Most games, especially 
 FPS games, make you face enemies which generally increase in difficulty as the game progresses. 
 Halo does this as well but what it does differently is mix up the batch of enemies. You will face 
 a mix of grunts, elites, etc which requires you to create a strategy for the whole pack as opposed 
 to only one class of enemy at a time like most games do. Secondly, the weapon and vehicle system 
 is also strategically inclined. While some weapons are more effective than others, each weapon 
 has definite strengths and weaknesses. In general, the alien weapons tend to drain shields well, 
 but the human weapons have more punch. Some weapons that worked well initially  or some types 
 of enemies  may not work at all with later enemies. These factors become extremely important when 
 you are only allowed to carry to weapons at a time therefore emphasizing tactics. In addition, 
 the melee attack is implemented better than any other game and effectively becomes a core part 
 of combat strategy. The vehicles are loads of fun and add to tactics  especially in circumstances 
 where friendly AI are required to help out. Lastly, the level design further encourages an intelligent 
 approach to combat. There are always many areas for cover and planned actions; furthermore, there 
 is variation between close-quarter zones and wide-open areas. However, it also the level-design 
 where Halo: Combat Evolved has its worst failing.
  
  The level design is tremendously repetitious. At times one questions whether areas were replicated 
 and then added to make the game seem longer. The infamous library level is the worst. Hopefully, 
 Bungie took this into consideration when making Halo 2.
  
  The PC version has a few things over the xbox version. Firstly, the mouse and keyboard controls 
 feel more at home  it feels that it was the game was meant to be played this way. Secondly, Halo 
 has an incredibly fun multiplayer (especially the CTF and Slayer modes) over some unique maps. 
 The PC version can be played over the internet which is a welcomed addition as the xbox version 
 did not support xbox live. One of the disappointing aspects of the PC version was the absence of 
 the co-operative feature. This was categorically one of the most enjoyable aspects to the game. 
 If Halo for PC has co-op, I would definitely concur that this version would be the most complete 
 package. As for the technical aspects, the graphics still look good after a few years and the sound 
 is still amazing. I was dissatisfied with the framerates I got even with a decent machine  in 
 fact, it requires a powerful rig to run this port. Nonetheless, this is well worth the money and 
 should be considered especially if you never got the chance to play it on xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper_99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best Sci Fi game there is out there in the World. One of the best storyline 
 I have ever heard for a game, the sound in this game are astonishing plus the voices in this game 
 are also what makes it a MasterPiece, a good buy but if you already have an Xbox you should probably 
 get it for the Xbox. One of the biggest new parts are the new multiplayer maps plus you can battle 
 with your friends from Multiplayer when online, but this game lags alot which is the bad part. 
 If you want this game to be in the high settings be aware this game has alot of demanding in grapic 
 card quality, yeah I mean QUALITY. Something like the ATI Radeon 9250 would probably work including 
 your system specs. So get ready and upgrading for your computer peripherals. Other than that this 
 game is still a Great game so I suggest you a must buy for this one for the PC unless you have 
 an Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirJordanVlad
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I must say I was very impressed by the Xbox version of Halo. I even wanted to get an Xbox just for 
 it. Halo was easily one of the best games for Xbox, and after all these years, the PC version is 
 here, but this translation is nowhere near as good.
  I'll begin by saying that Halo is pretty expensive here, around $50. The game itself is very popular, 
 but since Microsoft has no real stability or popularity here, all games related to it are not cheap.
 
  Halo's gameplay is pretty straightforward for a FPS, with a few tactic elements, thanks to Master 
 Chief's shield and the good AI. It's nothing revolutionary though, and can be compared to any Sci-Fi 
 shooter like ST: EF 2. The Elites are among the most powerful enemies encountered in the game, but 
 nothing impossible fortunately. Sometimes, Halo doesn't have the suspense of other shooters like 
 Doom 3 or Call of Duty.
  Compared to what was promised, Halo's graphics are not impressive. There are surely better looking 
 games, yet Halo requires a high-end PC. Even on my 2400 processor with GeForce 4 Ti 64 MB, I had 
 a horrible framerate and the game was laggy overall. Same happened on multiplayer, even on low ping 
 servers. There's not enough detail to the textures even on superior settings. The game is pretty 
 colourful, especially some of the enemies. All in all, nothing special, but the fuss around Halo's 
 looks seemed unjustified before the PC version was released. Yet it can't be considered an awful 
 looking game.
  The sound isn't of high expectations either, but it could be considered pretty good. The weapons 
 and the voice acting is well-put together, but it's not immersive and cannot impress in an exceptional 
 way. The impact sounds have a good variety.
  Halo's multiplayer is definetly better than the single player campaign, if you can avoid the lag 
 or live with it. The vehicles are a nice touch and add some tactical options to the game.
  I question Gamespot's 9.0 score, and I think the PC version is a bit overrated. Halo isn't a bad 
 game, but it doesn't add as much content as other games. It's well-made, has a nice storyline, but 
 cannot go further than that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude63
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  REVIEW:
  
  To start this off this is one of the best first person shooter ive played in a while. This game 
 has alot of problems though. Sometimes when you are playing the game and there is alot of stuff 
 going on thats when you see the gameplay start to slow down and freeze. This game knocks all of 
 the first person shooters down to the ground. The story in this game is really good. Here i will 
 tell you the sumary of the story at the begining. The story is about these aliens called the covenent. 
 They hold a weapon call halo. Halo is a weapon that can destroy the whole galaxy. The covenent 
 is like holding the world hostage. Master cheif is the worlds only hope. Master cheif is a solider 
 he wears a suit that ways 2 tons thats alot. His suit has a sheild that recharges when you stand 
 still. When your sheild runs out your health starts to decrease. Throughout the game of halo you 
 can only have two weapons so the game forces you to choice between weapons and giving up weapons 
 for another. In the game Master cheif has this good left hand that he throws grenades with. so 
 they awake master cheif and he goes and tries to stop this menice. Now I will talk about the multiplayer
 
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  IN the game there is a lot to choice from in mutiplayer levals. There are alot of modes to choice 
 from. What im excited about is the vehicles that what brings out the true mayhem in levals. There 
 is nothing like blowing up your friends with vehicles. There is also a online mode for the pc. 
 You have to register the game online first then you are locked loaded and ready to kill. Well thats 
 it for my review of Halo so go out and kill those covenent..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pizzaguy456
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2004 3:55 am PT
Review:  Halo on the PC is a truely great game but unlike it's Xbox version it isn't the best. It has many 
 of the same qualities and its multiplayer is tons of fun. In the multiplayer, two new weapons were 
 created exclusively for the PC version of the game which adds to it's gameplay. The story is good 
 and it has always been a love of mine to blow up aliens with plasma grenades. At the same time 
 it seems to have gotten "lost in translation" when it was transferred from Xbox to PC. The sound 
 is poor and unrealistic. The crosshairs are too big for some weapons. When zoomed with weapons 
 the screen becomes blurry and can become quite annoying at times. Some of the controls are bad 
 but if you reconfigure them it can work out in the end. Despite its faults it is still a great 
 game and deserves to be known as a great game with an even better multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossip00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2004 8:49 am PT
Review:  Well, this is one that the editors got right! In fact, I would give this game at least a 9.5! It 
 was simply the best FPS I have played on the PC. The AI is great and the combat is fast and intense. 
 The ambiance is totally immersive. The only drawback is that you really need a pretty good machine 
 to run it on due to the high detailed environment. I would recommend a Pentium 4 2.0 GHz with about 
 a meg of RAM and a very good graphics card (I use a NVIDIA GeForce card with 256 megs of on-board 
 RAM) . Now Im waiting for Halo2 to come put for PC.
  
  Thanks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willhelm
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 24, 2004 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Halo is considered by many (fanboys) as the best game of all time. And to the unitiated this may 
 seem true. Halo's blend of lone-wolf combat, squad-based (buy not tactical) combat and vehicles 
 were something never before seen on a console. This is perhaps Bungie's greatest accomplisment: 
 bringing a true PC first-person shooter experience to a console. 
  
  However, put this game on the PC, and its relative mediocrity becomes apparent. The combat, while 
 still pretty good, does not lend itself to much replayability, especially in conjunction with the 
 extremely repetative level design, the worst of which is The Library, worst level ever. 
  
  Halo PC does include a new multiplayer portion, but it is not as fleshed-out as it could have been. 
 It only supports up to 16 players, and none of the maps are all that great. 
  
  In the end, Halo is only an accomplishment when compared to other console first-person shooters. 
 Put it on the PC, and it is nothing spetacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenBanana
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2004 1:24 am PT
Review:  For my last birthday, I managed to get Halo: Combat Evolved for PC. That was in June, and it is 
 December now. Halo PC is still a game I play on a pretty much daily basis. Although the graphics 
 are not great (especially on my computer) it is still an insanely fun game.
  
  First off, I will start with the single player. The campaign is a bit short, and Halo would have 
 been a lot better if the campaign wasn't short and a bit repetative. However, the multiple difficulty 
 modes made the game a different experience pretty much every time I played it. Heroic was great, 
 it is the mode I most frequently play on now. For Legendary, well, I'm not technically done with 
 that one. It is extremely hard. And extremely fun. Overall, the single player is not all that great 
 if you play through it once, but the difficulty levels and easiness to replay make the single player 
 great. 
  
  The multiplayer, however, is what I have spent most of my time playing. While the multiplayer is 
 not that fast, it provides a gaming experience that you CANNOT find anywhere else on the PC gaming 
 market. At least in the parts I have looked in......... There are many maps included with the game, 
 which are pretty much all fun to play. The online does require a bit of leading for pistol shots, 
 but I grew used to it very quickly. If you set the options right, you can find at least a page 
 of non-high ping servers (If you have cable) that have a lot of players playing. The multiplayer 
 experience is very unique, but that is definately a great thing.
  
  Overall, with the game at $30 right now, it is a pretty much must-buy for PC shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montag
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 26, 2004 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I like first person shooters. I mean I really like first person shooters. Montag's first rule of 
 gaming... big guns good, small guns are ok too but hey my choice is...
  
  I really wanted to like this game but I just didn't. First the positives: it has an excellent grenade 
 system which works really well. The graphics are good.
  
  This is the bad bit. My rig is a bit of an uber gaming rig, designed to look good and play good. 
 No matter what I do with this game I can't get it to play smoothly. No other game is like it. It 
 is after all a console conversion. Total immersion ensues followed by a blip. The blip is always 
 in the middle of that ballet of firefighting, enjoyment gone uninstall bye bye. This just marrs 
 the graphics. If it was properly coded and not such a bloated hog then it would score much more 
 highly
  
  When it works it is a competant FPS, great in fact but not a true classic. On a console this will 
 rule yes but when you are used to a PC the extra mile is just not travelled.
  
  If you can get a budget buy from a shop woth a good returns policy then take a risk but regard 
 it as a Serious Sam not a System Shock. Good looking a bit of fun but not life changing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefting_kill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2004 4:40 am PT
Review:  Halo originally came out for the Xbox in november of 2001. To me it was a revoltuionary game, expanding 
 gameplay with excellent graphics, strong AI, a hardcore multiplayer compnent, and a ton of variety. 
 The story is the same nothing different, you crash land on a ring called Halo. You are a Spartan 
 part of the UNSC, trying to destroy the ring finding out something terrible about it.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is still the great old gameplay with alot of added stuff. Lets say multiplayer 
 componants are much better with its online play, more weapons, and the banshee yep folks it's in 
 multiplayer for the pc. You still have your lengthy campaign in ultiplayer but sadly there is no 
 co-op which makes it die down alot. But still it has the best moments stuck into it. 10/10
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the PC version are weak and not as polished as the xbox's version, 
 they are kind of choppy and just not as smooth. But all in all the graphics are still great just 
 a little choopy. The graphics can glitch a little more than the original also. 8/10
  
  Sound:
  The sound is pretty much the same, but sometimes i had glitches that really didn't bother 
 me to much but made me lose interest in some of the sequences, because some sounds weren't showing 
 up. 9/10
  
  Value:
  With Bungie adding so much more into an already great game made it even more packed full and loaded 
 with lots more than the original making it total fun, and a more addicting game. 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  Even with its better mulitplayer componant, Halo for the PC slugish framerate and edier 
 graphics keep it from living up to what i call revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S2Kluver
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 13, 2004 11:29 pm PT
Review:  When i got it for PC i didn't expect much but this game really caught me off guard especially the 
 scene where you first fight the flood, that just had be scared because they would come out of no 
 where and do serious damage to you. The graphics weren't that good on my part mainly because i 
 have a GeForce2 graphics card, but from some of the screens i've seen from fellow players the graphics 
 are either on par or better than xbox. the controls are good the only set back is no auto aim but 
 when u think about it would u want auto-aim while using the mouse? All in all, it's a very addictive 
 game and the multiplayer just leaves you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigeric144
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 26, 2004 2:21 am PT
Review:  Halo PC is a rather poor excuse of Halo on the PC. The game's hardware requirements for it to run 
 above 30 fps at 800x600 are way higher than any competing fps of it's time should ever be. Also 
 the netcode is on the up most unbearable. There is nothing that can kill a game faster than horrendous 
 lag. (especially one that its Xbox counterpart that prides itself in incredible multiplayer) . Another 
 thing that puts this game below average when it comes to fps shooters is the lack of custom content. 
 Although promised with the release of the game the H. E. K. (Halo editing kit) came out almost 5 
 months after release with a rather shabby tutorial on how to use it. It was incompatable with the 
 original Halo pc so Gearbox developed Halo: Custom Edition which nearly split the community in 
 half. The only way to find out about Custom Edtion would be to actually go to gearbox software 
 itself or other major gaming websites. This was the major cause on why Halo: Custom Edition is 
 at a max of 200 players a night. If you have not heard of custom edition or the HEK you can find 
 it here and other major gaming sites. If you are interested in custom maps for the game I highly 
 suggest you head over to www. gearboxsoftware. com and head into their forums where you will find 
 maps pouring out of there by the community daily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2004 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Halo is an instant classic and a must have for any first-person shooter fan. Although Halo lost 
 its hype when it finally arrived on PC, it hasnt lost anything else. Halo for the PC has it all, 
 great original story, awesome graphics, truly fun game-play, and one thing that Xbox didnt have 
 at the time Online multiplayer. Other than this, it is pretty much the same as the Xbox version, 
 so an in-depth review isnt really necessary.
  Halos storyline is a great one, and very original. The graphics in Halo are great too, as well 
 as the sound. Halo is just an amazing game that you have to play for yourself.
  I would recommend this game to any one who likes FPS games, even Xbox owners since Halo for the 
 Xbox wasnt Xbox Live compatible. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObeseChipmunk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2004 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Halo is an excellent game with a great story and emersive environments. The multi-player is really 
 nice with many modes of play and it wont bore you for a while. It's definetly worth buying, but 
 I don't see anything revolutionary about this game. It's more evolutionary, expanding on different 
 aspects of your regular FPS.
  
  The gameplay in Halo is what any regular FPS player would expect. What makes it better is that 
 you can control many different vehicles which surprisingly works well for an FPS with an opposite 
 style towards BF1942. You get futuristic weapons- human and alien and a good variety at that. The 
 AI is quite smart, aliens will call for backup and will be alerted if you make to much noise. They 
 can ride vehicles and bigger aliens will lank around as they are supposed to and carry heavy weapons. 
 This game isn't just a walk in the park ...
  The only stupid AI would have to be your fellow marines. If grenades are thrown towards them, they 
 will just scream and only a few times did they roll out of the way. You have a vast number of enemies 
 (each with its own difficulty) so the gameplay wont get repetitive. The different settings spice 
 up the game ever more. The vehicles in Halo will have you flying, squashing enemies, obliterating 
 everything in existance and hovering around. Trust me, they are fun :D. Multi-player in Halo is 
 very nice. You can do deathmatch, CTF, king of the hill and many others. Another thing to note 
 out are that the load times are virtually none at all.
  
  However, the graphics aren't to great. There is great and noticeable bump mapping but the character 
 modeling really needs some work. Especially seeing that this game came out a full year after BF1942. 
 Compare the models in both games and you will see what I mean. The alien models need the most work, 
 to me they just look like big blobs with limbs. I can barely make out their faces. I gave the graphics 
 an 8 because of really good bump mapping and lighting. The particle engine isn't to bad either. 
 I had graphic settings maxed with 1152x864 Resolution and My card is a Radeon 9800Pro
  
  The sound really did have the capability of getting a 10/10 but there were to many glitches. I 
 loved the epic music when you went into a hardcore fire fight, but the surround 
  sound could use some work. Although the game did have surroun sound, it was very inaccurate. I 
 heard a Banshee coming towards my left, I turn slightly (VERY slightly) to the right and suddenly 
 it's on my right side. I looked over to my left and I still saw it flying towards me. Another time 
 I heard an Elite to my left roaring, I turned just slightly right and the sound came from the right. 
 Sometimes the sound is somewhat trippy. I may be shooting my assault rifle but I don't hear it. 
 This only happens when there are many other noises occuring. I had everything on sound also on 
 it's highest and I have the Logitech Z-2200 THX speakers (placed far apart for surround sound effects) .
 
  
  So, in short Halo is a sweet game, but nothing revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damstr
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2004 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is has to be one of the best games out of all time. I mean Bungie really got everything 
 right in this game. It blows all other FPS out of the water. 
  The graphics are amazing!!!!! Everything looks so good. has to be one of the games with the best 
 graphics.
  Gameplay is sweet. everything moves so smoothly. controls are laid out perfectly. 
  Weapons: 
 the assault rifle is the most common weapon in the game. It is pretty accurate as long as you use 
 short controled bursts. The magazine holds 60 rounds.
  The pistol is more powerful then the assault rifle but the fact that its semi-auto and only holds 
 12 rounds keeps it from being better. there is also a zoom feature that comes in handy a lot.
 
  The shot gun is very power in short range. it holds 12 shells, and is semi-auto.
  The sniper is probably the best weapon in the whole game. if u know how to use it u cant get 1-2 
 shot kills everytime. 
  The rocket launcher is second best. very very powerful. has zomo, and holds 2 rockets.
  The convenant 
 rifle is full-auto and is about as good as the assault rifle.
  the covenant pistol can be charged up to create one large plasma blast that does a lot of damage. 
 
  The needler is probably the worst weapon in the game. It shoot pink needles that home into its 
 target, the only problem is that it takes the needles a long time to reach thier target.
  
  The vehicles in the game are very fun to drive or just mess around with. The vehicles are the warthog 
 which can hold 3 people including the the driver. the machine gun in the back is very powerful. 
 Kinda like a military humvee but more advanced
  The Tank is a beast!!!! it can hold 5 people including the driver. the other 4 people site on each 
 side. The tank's main weapon is the cannon which the most powerful gun in the game. The secondary 
 gun is an inaccurate machine gun.
  The Banshee is a convenant figher. its main weapon is a plasma blasts but the secondary is a powerful 
 mortar.
  The ghost is a land cruiser that has plasma cannons
  
  There are 4 different difficulties: easy, normal, herioc, and legondary.
  If you've never played 
 the game before i recommend that u start out on the easy difficulty, then work your way up as you 
 get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike1234234
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 28, 2004 4:01 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, i did give the graphics a 4 because i only have a 32 mb card so it looks 
 crappy, but oh well. The gameplay is your basic first person shooter but some how they made it 
 perfect so the replay value is exellent. The differnt choice of weapons is pretty good about the 
 same for any other game so its not bad there, but the vehicles make multiplayer the best. Its great 
 how 1 person can drive the warthog (i call it a jeep) another can be in the passenger seat and 
 another can be shooting with the mounted gun. The new maps are exellent but blood gulch is still 
 the best. Its too bad they couldnt put in some new single player levels cause that wouldve been 
 sweet. Anyways its too bad i have a bad computer or that score wouldve been way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKrnBoI24x
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 22, 2004 2:52 am PT
Review:  The story is about a new member named Master Cheif, whose he and his crew gets attacked my aliens 
 and look to escape. They crash on "Halo" and look to restore everything to Peace. One of the best 
 shooters of all time for Xbox finally comes to the PC. Well I think the game still remains very 
 solid and cool. I recommend you buy some of the joysticks to make the game more fun. Here are my 
 game reviews right below... Even for people who already have Halo for Xbox may have fun playing 
 it once again. If you see it for yourself... the game has some new weapons like Fuel Rod!! ^ - 
 ^
  
  Gameplay 8: Gameplay is still very strong. Back when Xbox didnt have Xbox Live, there was no online 
 play. Well here in the PC version the online playing is here and it can't be any more exciting 
 and fun... But without multiplayer I do think i have to take 1 attribute point out... The campaign 
 mode remains fantastic.
  
  Graphix 8: When I heard the PC Remake comin' out for Halo, I was almost so sure the graphix would 
 be even better than the Xbox version. It may look the same but its really not. I'm not saying the 
 graphix got bad, I'm saying its not as great as the Xbox Version
  
  Sound 9: There was no doubt Halo had the best sound of the Xbox console. The PC version's a bit 
 weaker at least in my opinion. It's kinda like how I described the graphix.
  
  Value 9: Definately a must buy if you don't want to buy an extra Xbox for getting Halo alone. Once 
 again the online play adds the points up~
  
  I personally enjoy playing Halo. It can actually get boring sometimes but the online play is usually 
 addictive with 2-16 player action. a HUGE CHaos. Buy Halo for just around $30 rite now and you 
 prolly won't be disappointed =] 
  
  Wrote on 9.21.04
  
  PS: Im sorry, but I just had to get this outta my head. Halo is not the greatest game or shooter 
 of all time. Sure, the story mode is just flat out fun, PC graphix are fair and the sound rocks, 
 the game can be "wholeheartly" recommended. But... its not that kind of BEST Shooter game ever. 
 Xbox's and PC versions are both over-rated... I'm not encouraging you to not buy it, but I'm just 
 making a point right there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_is_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2004 12:05 am PT
Review:  This is the kind of game is something you just can't put down I love this game it is really a piece 
 of art and gaming to the max. From first arriving on halo and blasting covenant left and right 
 to the first encounter with the flood to watching your fellow marines get hammered by enemy fire 
 along with the force of the flood, and playing and playing for hours and hours it hits you....... you 
 can't put down the controller, its as simple as that because the game is just so simply great whatever 
 you wonna call it it just great. So I will keep it real short and leave you with these words: get 
 the game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batke
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2004 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Halo since it came out on XBOX, so have ALL of you. Now that I can use my Key/Mouse 
 combo this has just gone down as my favorite game of all time. I know lot's of people would disagree. 
 But I am a FPS only kind of gamer and this is by far one of the most fun shooters to play. Even 
 if The Library repeates it self I still love the gameplay and the feeling that no game world has 
 created since Half-Life's Single Player. Just sit down and play this game for 1 hour, by yourself 
 with no other on a Esy setting and you will learn to love the 2-weapon only, 4 grenade only, rechargable 
 shield, and smart AI so much and just get involved in the story. Think YOU ARE Master Cheif (John) 
 and you do want to save the world so you must destroy the ring at any cost. Thanks, that's my 2 
 cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 1, 2004 4:32 am PT
Review:  Halo has developed a bad rep, it continues to get high scores when many gamers believe it's trash. 
 Truth is, it's not trash, nor game of the year. Halo is a fun multiplayer game and mediocre single 
 player one.
  
  The single player story has a good plot for a sci-fi video game that many may enjoy but the gameplay 
 is not very impressive. Indoor levels are dull and are just run and gun as you move through rooms 
 that all look exactly the same over and over and over. The guns are decent but your standard Assault 
 Rifle lacks the power and bad-ass feel, the pistol is way more accurate and deadly. Alien guns 
 don't spout much excitement, the only worthy one is the alien plasma rifle. There are some good 
 guns found within the game including the sniper rifle, shotgun and rocket launcher. The game shows 
 some good graphics including a detailed model of Master Chief, you character yet it still holds 
 basic death animations.
  
  The biggest guilty pleasure of Halo is the vehicles, unfortuantly in single player the AI is to 
 dumb to drive so you have to, but this is still enjoyable because running down enemies and your 
 own marines is priceless. A perfect Kodac moment.
  
  The major selling point for the game and one of the reasons people even decided to buy Halo on 
 PC is the multiplayer. While a total of 16 players per server isn't that great these days it more 
 than fits the small maps that were initially built for 4 player Xbox. There are also new guns and 
 vehicles including two overhyped and lackluster ones including the flying alien vehicle, the Banshee 
 which is at disadvantage because it's very noticable and everyone wants to shoot you down and the 
 rocket-launcher warthog which has long reload times and bad accuracy. The weapons are the Covenant's 
 answer to the rocket launcher which is pretty cool and a flame thrower that is only worth picking 
 up in close quarters.
  
  Despite it's single player faults and shallow deathmatch, Halo is still enjoyable, if you can find 
 a copy for a good price, pick it up, it's online play can be laggy and people can have that Counter-Strike 
 inspired jerkiness about them but there is little else to hate about Halo, it's a true guilty pleasure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: end15
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 28, 2004 11:14 am PT
Review:  I just got this game for the Mac. I've only played the single player portion of the game so far. 
 There are a few interesting about this game. The story has a few good sci-fi elements. However, 
 it rips off Aliens colonial mariens, and on top of that AVP 2 is a much better game. I like the 
 riding in the vehicles but they don't even handle very well. The inablility to tilt or do any of 
 the more advanced FPS abilities also does not help. The aliens just got on my nerves (they just 
 were not menacing) . The graphics were okay but when I turned them up the game just slowed down. 
 I realize now that this game just came to the Mac way to late to be interesting. I think this game 
 was just hype. I would rather play Max Payne or GTA (for the vehicles) . To be fair I have not tried 
 the multiplayer and people do seem to enjoy that. It just wasn't my thing. Oh yes, this game would 
 be more interesting if it were $15 instead of $50 (still) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 26, 2004 1:19 am PT
Review:  it has very addictive multiplayer but HORRIBLE single player!
  
  single player consists of shoot shoot walk walk shoot walk get in vehical drive drive
  
  help 
 gay marines get killed by marines and it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and 
 on and 
 
  
  okay i think you get the point
  
  but multiplayer...........
  
  thats much different!
  
  multiplayer has games like CTF (capture the flag) , assult, (a very 
 complecated version of CTF)
  
  slayer, (death match) team slayer, oddball, king of the hill, and many moe!
  
  so if you like 
 multiplayer than you will love this but if your expecting a great single player
  experianse than look elsewhere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, but i think it was better on xbox then pc, yes the pc had it's Online, but i 
 still liked it more on xbox. The story for this game is great, it's fun, and very very creative. 
 It's like no other FPS ever. It's rare to find a game this fun and have such a deep story, and 
 great multiplayer on xbox or pc. The music is perfect for the type of game it is, they did a real 
 good job with that. The graphics are really done nice, lots of shiny, polished awesome looking stuff. 
 The A. I is smart, and some of them are fun to watch them run. It's simply a real great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:44 am PT
Review:  Halo was lauded by gamers and reviewers alike as one of the best shooters ever upon its release. 
 Now, two years after Halos console release, Gearbox has brought us a port that puts Halo back 
 on its original system. How does Halo hold up after those years, and can the pc version compete 
 with todays outstanding shooters?
  
  Fortunately, Halo has held up quite well in the translation. The games best and brightest feature 
 is its outstanding single-player game. In the campaign, you play as the Master Chief, a fighting 
 machine thawed from his cryogenic chamber on board the Pillar of Autumn. As the vessel is overrun 
 with attacking aliens known as the Covenant, the captain is forced to crash land on a nearby ring-shaped 
 planet called Halo. It is here that the games action takes place, as you continue to fight against 
 the Covenant as you search for a way to escape. 
  
  There are not a large number of different types of enemy, but the AI is so well done that it is 
 an easily forgiven oversight. The Covenant foe have a large number of weapons at their disposal, 
 and often brilliantly react to your actions, such as rolling and tumbling to avoid fire, using 
 terrain as shields, and running from grenades when thrown; it is worth noting that they often toss 
 their own grenades back, making for a tough challenge at times, as their grenades will stick to 
 its target. Fortunately, the AI does not cheat, so under cover of darkness, you can use stealth 
 to avoid being seen until you are at a greater vantage point. The AI also senses when you are in 
 a weaker position , and enemies will flank you from either side, presenting a significant challenge 
 that makes the game sometimes difficult but never frustrating. You will often fight with Marines 
 at your side, and thankfully, the friendly AI is also impressive, as they realistically cover you, 
 or call for requests of backup. Like your foe, they will use terrain to their advantage. 
  
  As you make your way through Halo, you will have a variety of weapons available to you. While 
 you can only have two weapons on your person at any time, any found weapon can be switched out 
 with another. This mechanic can make your tactical choices very important, particularly when you 
 have to choose another weapon if your ammo gets low. The games interface does a great job in alerting 
 you when you are low on ammo so you can choose to manually reload if necessary, and provides you 
 with the amount of ammo available as well as whats left in the current clip. The Master Chief 
 also has rechargeable shields that can take somewhat of a beating but can then be recharged if 
 you last long enough without taking any damage. While there are health packs available throughout 
 the game, the relative lack of power-ups makes the use of your down time as important as your skill 
 in the midst of battle. Of course, vehicles are also available, as they were in the Xbox version. 
 There are a number of human and alien vehicles, all with unique uses.
  
  Halos graphics stand up surprisingly well; unfortunately, it is still somewhat of a system hog, 
 and can run choppily on fairly recent systems with AA and AF at their highest settings. Fortunately, 
 the player has direct control of these settings, and even with them turned down, Halo is still 
 attractive to look at, at playable frame rates. Unfortunately, other more graphically intense games 
 cause similar problems to the same degree, so Halo does suffer somewhat as a result. As you make 
 your way through the detailed outdoor environments, it will be hard to notice any graphical quibbles. 
 The sound remains intact from the Xbox version, and is still heartily impressive. Weapons effects 
 are remarkably believable, Covenant grunts cry out in pain and victory, the music is ambient and 
 exciting, and all the voice acting is well above par. Unlike in many similar games, the friendly 
 AI does not recycle the same lines over and over, keeping the immersion factor high.
  
  Fans of the Xbox version will be disappointed to learn that the popular co-op play did not make 
 it into the pc port. Fortunately, there is a huge number of online play modes from which to choose, 
 and while most of them are just variants of each other, the multiplayer will likely keep gamers 
 busy as they try one after another, close to 40 in all. They do not offer the originality found 
 in other multiplayer shooters, but are entertaining in their own right. Almost 20 maps are included 
 for multiplayer play, and the best feature of these is the outdoor environments. Just as in the 
 single-player, the indoor level designs are a tad uninspired and dont allow the gameplay to shine 
 as much as it does outdoors. 
  
  In final analysis, Halo remains a terrific game on the pc. It features an involving campaign loaded 
 with exciting battles, offers a tough challenge without being frustrating, and is a shooter no 
 gamer should miss. Graphical nitpicking and lack of the fulfilling co-op mode may keep it from 
 being perfect, but it is as good as any other pc shooter in recent years, and can be wholeheartedly 
 recommended. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Easy-Target
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2004 4:31 am PT
Review:  Much like its Xbox twin, Halo PC boasts excellent visuals, a fantastic storyline and a great multiplayer. 
 However to gain the most out of Halo PC you have to have a monster of a machine.
  
  Halo PCs most improved aspect is its multiplayer, with new vehicles, weapons and maps. You can 
 download Halo Custom Edition for free and get hundreds of maps, or even Halo Editing Kit and create 
 your own maps.
  
  Fight your way through ten huge levels against the Covenant, the flood and a certain Guilty Spark. 
 The replay value is fantastic, theres loads of ways to complete levels you can blast around in 
 a tank, go joy riding in a legendary Warthog, be a mighty sniper or my personal favorite run around 
 with a bunch of tough marines with nothing but a pistol and rocket launcher!
  
  Halo Pcs biggest let down though is the lack of co-op, so if you fancy playing with your mates 
 they have to either connect up through LAN, be on their own PC or just play the Xbox version.
 
  
  I dont care whether were up in the air, or on a giant Hula Hoop, lets show these alien scum 
 who they are dealing with! Sergeant Johnson. 
  
  You like shooters, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darmok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2004 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The graphics performance of this game is abyssmal on low-end DirectX 9 video cards. In fact, you'll 
 have a better gaming experience with Halo on a GeForce 3 or 4 than you will on a GeForce FX 5200 
 Ultra for example, because those older cards just don't know enough to go for the "feature gusto" 
 like the 5200 is compelled to.
  
  After upgrading to a Radeon 9600 XT, Halo became an enjoyable title with acceptable performance. 
 Still, other more recent titles like UT2004 run exceptionally well on low to mid-range DirectX 
 9 video cards because the game is coded to adapt for good gameplay on your hardware, whatever it 
 may be. Kudos to the game designers that put priority on the game-play on myriad levels of hardware 
 rather than only going for the top-of-the-line. After all, the higher, the fewer.
  
  Darmok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2004 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The PC version of an incredible console shooter was bound to happen. It took long enough but it 
 is finally here. Excited as can be to play the game on a recently purchased Alienware, my excitement 
 was quickly dissolved to find that I couldn't play the game at the highest graphical level. Not 
 that big of a deal but the special effects were really nice and I'd have liked to have kept them 
 in. No idea why this was never fixed. Other than that, you have a perfect port of a great game. 
 PC gamers will also enjoy the added benefit of online play. Console gamers will get that this fall 
 but until then, the PC is the only way for a MAster Chief Frag Fest. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betelgeuse68
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2004 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Basically this game is great IF you have the hardware to run it. While I do have a high end machine, 
 I must say, considering I've played a variety of contemporary games at 2048x1536 resulting in silky 
 smooth frame rates (no joke) , I'm hard pressed to cut slack to a title that originally debuted 
 on the XBox which has much lower specs than my PC desktop. Yeah sure Gearbox was porting code... 
 being a software developer myself (albeit in a different space) I can empathize. Nevertheless, 
 the end result is what we the consumers see and unless you have a very high end system I don't 
 see the point of bothering with HALO on the PC. With the XBox you can play it on a big television 
 set (assuming you have one) and the XBox supports progressive scan and if you have the right set, 
 HALO on a high end TV is great. But if you've already played it there and you do not have a high 
 end PC to re-experience it at high resolution (1280x1024 or higher; I'm playing it at 1600x1200) , 
 I don't see the point in bothering. Synopsis: If you've got the wares, go for it. Otherwise, stick 
 to HALO on the XBox in the unlikely event that you *still* have not played this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngryFarmer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2004 9:44 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about Halo PC. Lets start by saying that Halo on XBOX was, is and will be 
 a classic. Halo PC is a faithfull copy of the XBOX version with a few added extras and bonuses. 
 It is definately an excellent single and multiplayer game although spending 30 on a two year old 
 game may not appeal to everyone. The biggest flaw which I see with the game are some of the indoor 
 single player levels. They are well designed although sometimes to dark and indeed pointless. Multiplayer 
 is where the game really shines. With added game modes, maps, guns and vehicles the multiplayer 
 game stands out as one of the best you can get nowadays. I would reccomend Halo to anyone although 
 I think that the price tag must go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2004 8:07 am PT
Review:  If you were like me, then you have heard about what a great game Halo is, but you couldnt figure 
 out what was so great about it or what made it so special. It first glance, it looks so ordinary. 
 You look at the box and see that you are fighting a bunch of aliens with laser guns and assault 
 rifles. Sounds like a clich doesnt it? But what is so great about this game is that it is just 
 really fun to play. It gets all of the little things right. Halo isnt innovative as far as setting 
 and storyline go, but it is a big breakthrough as far as gameplay goes. (Gameplay, remember that?) 
 Even during the mind-numblingly repetitive spots, it still manages to be somewhat fun. 
  
  Here are five reasons why Halo is a great game:
  
  1. Weapon balance  every weapon in the 
 game is useful, and none are overpowered. Every weapon has at least one advantage, and one disadvantage. 
 The pistol is accurate at long range, which gives it an advantage over the assault rifle, which 
 is lethal, but only at a short range. The plasma rifle is good for taking down shields, but cant 
 hold much ammo, and the rocket launcher is very powerful, but also slow to reload. You can only 
 carry two weapons, but you will frequently find yourself changing them out for various situations. 
 The fact that all of them are useful gives you all sorts of ways to fight differently.
  
  2. Fantastic AI. The aliens in the game (called The Covenant) give you some very smart enemies 
 to fight. They will use cover to let their shields regenerate and if you are trying to run them 
 over in a vehicle, they will dive out of the way. They will also use grenades sometimes to flush 
 you out, as well as try to rush you and/or outflank you. Sometimes they will jump onto nearby turrets 
 or vehicles. Not only do the enemies have great AI, but so do your marine teammates. This all makes 
 for some very exciting battles, which never quite play out the same twice. 
  
  3. The game actually makes you use your skills and tactics, instead of memorizing where enemies 
 are scripted to ambush you. I love this aspect. There are very few surprises in Halo. Winning battles 
 requires skillful use of cover, smart weapon selection, and good use of grenades too. I am kind 
 of spoiled now, because every other first-person shooter (except for maybe Serious Sam) seems inferior 
 in this area. Most games require you to abuse the quick save key in order to get through the 
 game.
  
  4. In Halo, you are always moving forward. The game just flows so fast. This is due in large part 
 to the regenerating shields mechanic, which is being copied by lots of other games. This simple 
 innovation means that you can fight 15 or 20 battles without losing any health, as long as you 
 are smart when you fight them. Thus, you dont have to backtrack all afternoon for a powerup. In 
 addition, the game throws lots of ammo your way, so you dont have to spend much time scavenging 
 for it.
  
  5. Halo has vehicles and turrets seamlessly integrated into the game. There are vehicles scattered 
 throughout the game that you can get into and use to mow down your enemies or fly around and blast 
 them from the sky. When you get into the jeep, marine squadmates will jump in with you and take 
 the gunner positions. The vehicles in this game are so much fun. Sometimes the best way to defeat 
 a group of enemies is to drive around the perimeter and let your gunner blast away at them. 
  
  6. Surprise, surprise, grenades are not only useful, but crucial to surviving the game. This 
 is thanks to a separate hotkey just for throwing grenades. You can be firing your assault rifle 
 and throw a quick grenade, and then fire your rifle some more. You dont have to switch weapons 
 to throw grenades, so they become that much more useful. This is another very simple innovation 
 that substantially changes the gameplay.
  
  OK I lied, that was 6 reasons. There are actually more, like the wonderful soundtrack, which makes 
 the games big battles so memorable. Lots of people dislike the games repetitiveness, especially 
 towards the end. The scenery in the game gets very repetitive. This game could have used a lot 
 more artists. The infamous Library level gets pretty boring, but this is still really a great 
 game despite being two years old and having some technical problems. Halo deserves the praise that 
 it has gotten for the past few years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpion15
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2004 12:37 am PT
Review:  Well after 2 years of waiting P. C gamers finally get a piece of the Halo pie. Halo has to be one 
 of the best shooters ever on P. C or console. The Action is absolutely terrific and the A. I is very 
 realistic. It's got some great action in it and nothing beats it. Halo also has a suberb soundtrack. 
 The music is very appropriate for a game like Halo and it's very cool to hear it. Halo's Veichle 
 combat is just as good as the gun combat. The graphics are pretty good for a 2 year old P. C port 
 of an Xbox game. The Multiplayer is very good also. Halo is both a superb single player and multiplayer 
 shooter. If your looking a shooter as good as Perfect Dark, Half-Life, or Goldeneye than look no 
 further because this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aditya
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2004 6:39 am PT
Review:  I am very dissapointed with this game in terms of performance. I do have a high end system - 2.4GHz 
 P4, 512MB DDR RAM, FX5200 128 MB card, serial ATA hdd running Windows XP ... basically everything 
 that the MS site recommends. But I could only run the game at everything set to lowest and that 
 too after lot of experiments. It was quite unbelievable because I haven't seen anything perform 
 badly on my system.
  
  After paying so much (well I bought it looking at the Gamespot rating of 9.0) it was a big let 
 down. I still can't understand that whether people who rated 9+ (including Gamespot people) actually 
 were satisfied with the performance or probably the game performs only on those few system. ????
 
  
  Anyway, gameplay was pretty good ... There are some cool vehicles and some really good weapons. 
 It had quite a good story line. Unfortunately I couldn't see the beautiful halo landscape rendering 
 in full blow because it wouldn't run at higher resolution. This was really a big let down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 91sonicsKILLERS
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2004 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME!!!! Its multiplayer is great, that is what is so good about this game! The single 
 player was is great to, exllent story, great voice acting, and alot of replay value!.
  
  But the graphics are a little problem, yeah the water afects are great, theres a big huge world around 
 you. Who cares about that crap?, the frame rate slows down alot just like perfect dark, goldeny 007 
 and turok.
  
  I for got to ask you that I wanted this for the XBOX but 180$! You gota be kiding me.
  
  Well 
 about thi game, when ever I play it the computer restarts because of my video card, radeon9000 preaty 
 old.
  
  Its multi player is really fun because of slayer and team slayer or ctp and people our kind to 
 you, help you and thank you for the suport.
  
  I love this game and master chief is the best, HAPPY NEW YEAR!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 4, 2003 5:55 am PT
Review:  Except of course that the fact that its the same as on the Xbox highlights the poor quality of 
 the port. If all a port does is make the game on a PC the same as on a console then you've really 
 got to question the point. For a _PC_ game the graphics are at best average, the effects are average, 
 the gameplay is linear and pretty unexciting, the bad guys have a grimly, squeaky japanese feel 
 to them that removes any atmosphere the game might have had. And to cap it all it is abominably 
 unreliable - will only run in safe mode most of the time on a stripped down (ie clean installed) 
 Windows XP, P4 2mHz, Geforce4 4600i, Creative audigy system with 512 megs of RAM. And PLEASE don't 
 tell me to learn how to tweak my machine - I am a consumer who buys games to play - if they are 
 properly written/ported they should just work without having to spend time adjusting .ini files 
 etc. If it can be done with Splinter Cell, why not with a much less complex game such as Halo? 
 Im afraid this is just yet another badly QAed, badly programmed, under-designed game - signs of 
 a growing trend towards dumbed down PC games to keep the console kids market happy. Very poor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illfingas
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 28, 2003 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is exactly the same as the Xbox version i dont know what the hell u people talkin bout. 
 Ive played both the verssions passed both of them, only reason pc gets lower mark imo is LAG on 
 mp and finally microsofts greedy latened release 
  
  lol all you xbox fans without halo it would of sunk right to the bottom Ha!
  
  its also the 
 reason why halo was cancelled as a pc game, when microsoft bought out Bungie they made the most 
 financially sound descision in a long time, Bungie is a gold mine the people working there have 
 excellent game design ethics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2003 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for a long time for Halo to come out on the PC, and the wait was well worth it.
 
  The game is graphically superb and the sound is pretty damn good.
  The gameplay is pretty decent.
  The one thing I adored about it is that it saves the games automatically 
 very often, so you don't have to press that damn F5 key all the time.
  
  The bad thing about it now : your teamates are just too stupid.
  I dunno how many guys I've run 
 over with the Warthog "accidentally".
  I say accidentally cause they would all seem to jump in front of the Warthog while I was driving 
 by... and I already had a gunner and a passenger !
  
  Nonetheless, the game is great, well worth the wait ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacefan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2003 9:28 am PT
Review:  I have been playing PC games for years, since before the Tombraider series came out. Up until I 
 played Halo, I thought System Shock 2 was the best game of all time. Halo now ranks up there with 
 System Shock 2 and is, of course, better at a lot of game play elements than SS2 was. Halo is the 
 only reason I am now seriously considering buying an XBOX because Halo 2 is being released soon 
 (soon as in game developer/game publisher measures of time) . Halo has some striking similarities 
 to SS2 e. g., The Flood and The Many. I know there are some who have weighed in with their opinion 
 of Halo in a not so positive way, and maybe that's just the PC version. But I think this was one 
 of the best kick ass games I have played in a long time. 
  
  Of all the games that have migrated to the movies, Halo is one that I think could successfully 
 make the jump (please, no more Tombraider movies!) , because it does have an interesting scifi storyline 
 and its got enough monsters to keep all the teenagers out there happy as clams. 
  
  Now, if they could just get the prices down on these games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXGregXx
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 9, 2003 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I loved Halo for Xbox; I still do. It's one of the best games ever in my opinion. But the PC version 
 was completely screwed up. There are just so many things done wrong.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is only a 6 for a few reasons. First off is that the weapons were balanced 
 for a system that made them more accurate when pointed at an enemy. So when you try to use some 
 of the more inaccurate weapons like the shotgun or assault rifle, they are almost entirely useless 
 unless you're within punching distance. Another reason is that it's hard to play a game when the 
 framerate goes into bullet-time. And as for multiplayer, the lag is so bad that half the time your 
 attacks do no damage. Bullets, melees, and cars, you name it, it won't work.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game might look nice if you could turn them up without the game 
 near freezing in heavy firefights. My computer is not top of the line, but it runs Call of Duty 
 (and almost any other game) at better resolutions then this game's perfectly well. This game could 
 have easily been better optimized, why it wasn't, I don't think we'll ever know.
  
  Sound: Halo for the Xbox had great sound. Good music, nice THOOMing explosions, you know, the works. 
 The problem with the sound here is that there seems to be some kind of limit to the number of sounds 
 you can have at once. Alot of times dialog and gunshots are just cut off if even a moderate amount 
 of combat is going on. It's a shame, really, to have such a great sound ruined by simple technical 
 glitchs that could of been ironed out in testing.
  
  Value: Well, there ain't much. If you want singleplayer, go get yourself an Xbox and have the time 
 of your life. If you want multiplayer, go get youself an Xbox, a few friends, and have the lag 
 free time of your life. Single and multiplayer, are just flat out better on the Xbox.
  
  Considering all I've said, 5.4 seems a little high, I suppose. But, Halo on the PC, despite all 
 of it's problems, can still be fun if you're bored, if only because it's based on one of the greatest 
 games of all time. Not something to spend money on, but if you're over at a friends house and they 
 have it, give it a shot. You probably won't be to wowed, but at least it might point you towards 
 the Xbox version; a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamaBurner
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2003 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is basically the same thing as XBox, with the exception of keyboard/mouse and the 
 new stuff in Multiplayer.
  
  The singleplayer is the exact replica of of the XBox version. I know this for fact, as they never 
 did fix the bugs in the singleplayer from the XBox version (though the bugs are small in numbers) . 
 So if you have not played the singleplayer of the XBox version, then read on. Otherwise, skip this 
 next paragraph.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  The single player puts you in the body of the Master Chief, the human race's only chance of survival. 
 Thats a pretty hefty load for just starting the game, huh? Anyways, you and your platoon of marines 
 are set to fight the evil convent from destroying the human race. So whats the best way to accomplish 
 this? KILL THEM ALL! Of course! The gameplay is definetly the best out of any game out and so are 
 the graphics, sound, and everything about it. Not only do you get to destroy everything that walks 
 in your path, you also get to have fun in 4 vehicles: Warthog, Scorpion, Ghost, and Banshee.
  
  I don't want to go into great detail on these vehicles, but here is a brief overview. The Warthog 
 is basically a jeep with a a mounted machine gun, and the jeep holds 3 men: 1 driver, 1 passenger, 
 and 1 gunner. The scorpion is a human tank which the driver fires a very inaccurate machine gun 
 or can shoot a rocket. It holds three passengers on each side of the tank. The ghost is the Covenent 
 single-manned hovercraft which shoots dual plasma lasers. The Banshee is the Covenent's single-manned 
 aircraft which can suspend in mid-air and shoots dual plasma lasers and a plasma bolt.
  
  The AI in this game is very poor, which is my only major complaint. Only you can drive vehicles 
 and neither the human troops or the covenent use any common sense or tactical combat at all. You 
 can stand right in front of a covenent grunt and he will just stare at you and fire about once 
 every 3 seconds. It's too easy. But anyways, still loads of fun. Not so tough on Legendary difficulty 
 (hardest) . Hard to keep your FPS up in this game. I can keep mine at a consistant 40 fps which 
 is really more than I need but just cool to show that off. All you really need is 30 fps, which 
 requires a lot of really good hardware.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  Without repeating what has been said in the single player portion of my review, here is whats new. 
 Two new weapons: Fuel Rod Gun and the Flamethrower. The Fuel Rod Gun seems to be what weapon that 
 the Hunters use, except you do not have to change it up like the Hunters. In fact, you can shoot 
 this gun very rapidly with the risk of it overheating and you having to wait that exciting 5 seconds 
 for it to cool back that (As with all Covenent weapons) . It shoots in a parabola, making it harder 
 to aim at targets distance-wise. The Flamethrower is highly destructive at close range. You can 
 kill another player with full health and shields in less than 2 seconds with this gun. It's almost 
 too cheap... well yeah, it is too cheap. But what do you expect? It's fire! You don't even have 
 to be breathing on the guy's neck to effectively use this gun. You can be about a Master Chief's 
 (on his back) distance from the enemy to still get the full effect. If that isn't cheap enough, 
 it continues to burn him after you quit emitting the fire, and the burning can last up to about 
 10 seconds, but usually you are dead before the 10 seconds is over.
  
  There is also a new warthog, unoffically called the Pumba (offically called Rocket Warthog) . It's 
 the same thing as a regular harthog except it's color is dark gray with two yellow race car stripes 
 up the hood. It is also eqipped with a triple-barrell rocket launcher. Yes, this DOES sound very 
 cheap, but it's really not. The rockets fire much slower than regular rockets, which makes it hard 
 to hit moving targets from ANY distance unless up close. Not good vs. players since it's inaccurate, 
 so definetly built to take care of vehicles. Personally I perfer the regular warthog over the Pumba 
 simply because the machine gun will kill the people in a vehicles almost faster than a rocket will. 
 The rocket's main advantage is it usually flips the vehicle, putting the enemy on the ground scurrying.
 
  
  Now the main most disputed issue about Halo PC Multiplayer... the irritating lag. Microsoft chose 
 a strange way to deal with the lag. Instead of you clicking the mouse button to fire and you actually 
 seeing the pistol fire short moments later, you see your pistol fire instantly after you click 
 the mouse, but your actually bullet isn't emitted until those few moments later. Even worse, the 
 bullet shoots at the location that you origally targeted it at, which is usually where an enemy 
 was a few moments later, but isn't anymore. So the only way to compinsate for this would be to 
 plan ahead of time and shoot in front of the target, which leaves you judge which direction the 
 enemy will move, which is highly unrealistic gameplay.
  
  Last point, there are a few new multiplayer maps. All of which are HIGHLY detailed and prove to 
 be great maps to play on. There are also new options for gametypes. You can now allow Banshees 
 in multiplayer, you can take of team damage, reset idle vehicles, and that's all that comes to 
 mind. I'm sure this goes for single player too, but also something new from the XBox version is 
 that once you have one red bar of health left you can hear your heart beat.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are very smooth if you have your settings set just right. It takes the best computer 
 on the market to run at semi-high resolutions, which makes me wonder why they couldn't make an 
 engine that could handle better resolutions with less than perfect computers. The XBox's processor 
 speed IS the minimum requirements for the PC version of Halo, and the graphics card is no better 
 than whats on the market now anyways, so whats the deal? It's obvious Microsoft didn't want to 
 go through a lot of trouble to convert an XBox engine to a PC engine. But nevertheless, it's still 
 a good engine.
  
  SOUND
  It's the same sounds from the XBox version, so yes, very good sound. Every sound fits the cause 
 perfectly. Characters actually talking with each other in a single player game other than reading 
 the boring script lines is definetly a plus.
  
  PROS
  Undeniable outstanding gameplay
  Great textures on everything in the game
  Highly customizable multiplayer game types and maps
 
  New guns and multiplayer maps
  
  CONS
  Lag is a big multiplayer issue
  Few minor bugs in singleplayer gameplay
  
  So in conclusion, this game is hardcore. Definetly 
 a game for anybody that has an interest in 1st person shooters, adventures, anything!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTheNubeis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  After playing PC version for 6 days my "muses" on the matter are thus.
  Gameplay is spot on and the conversion is fathfull and goes beyound
  the original.
  I find 
 it better than the Xbox Version but thats because I can use a
  mouse/trackball which is nice.
  Multi player is vastly superior to Xbox but that was a "No Brainer".
 
  
  The only main gripe I have is this.......
  Thou good graphic'ly it struggles on a Geforce3 and 4 on a 1 GigHz Machine.
  I play on a XP2600 
 and Geforce3 and its still not "smooth" on THAT machine.
  With hardware of this mag'nitue and the availbility of good 3D engine
  code and coders theres 
 no excuse.
  Its not that bad but with a other wise faultless product it shows up
  like a sore thumb.
  So in the end.........................
  Great Gameplay let down by need 
 for a powerful PC.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2003 7:05 pm PT
Review:  People just kill me. I have read tons of negative reviews on this game. Many are from people who 
 have "played it on the X-Box". I bought the game and did that all to rare thing. I read the readme 
 file and checked for specific game issues. Low and behold there in black and white it tells you 
 not to enable AA and AF in your graphic card settings or you could have slow downs or other graphic 
 problems. It also mentions the need to get the latest drivers for your card. I followed these directions 
 and downloaded the patch and the game both looks and performs great! I am running with everything 
 on at 1024 x 768. I have not tried higher resolutions since I this is the one I like. Many of the 
 current first person shooters are way way to short. For example NOLF 2, Jedi Academy and Unreal 
 2. Halo is a long and rewarding game. The multiplayer is great. I have had none of the problems 
 people have complained about with lag. Again, this probably had more to do with not paying attention 
 to the readme file and poor graphic performance will eat a game alive in multiplayer. So, in summary, 
 if you are considering this game and are worried about all the negative reviews, don't be. Just 
 read! and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batlord
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2003 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Ive played the entire solo game and put in about 15 hours of multi player now. I have really enjoyed 
 Halo. I fortunately havent had any problems running the game. I have an AMD 2200, 512 MB ram and 
 a ATI 9600 with 256 MB ram. Im running the game at all default settings. I downloaded and installed 
 the latest patches before I ever played Halo, so maybe that helped, but I can only recall one instance 
 where the frame rate slowed for a moment and that was it. 
  
  Personally, I think the game looks great. The art direction in general is very cool. It may be 
 less detailed in some ways, but in other ways its as good or better than current games out now. 
 Grass looks crappy, but physics animations look great. I think it all balances out into a cool 
 looking game. Music, sound effects, voice acting are all very well done. 
  
  The single player game is really good and the action is well paced. The intensity of the game builds 
 gradually and constantly throughout the game. My only negative criticism in single player is that 
 Bungie used a peculiar conservation of level design. In other words they used the same levels more 
 than once. Perhaps they were striving for some symmetry of a sort; you start at point A fight you 
 way to points B, C, and D, and then fight your way back to A. For the most part this is not a big 
 deal, but there are some interior levels in the middle of the game that are repetitive. I suspect 
 this might be traced back to Xbox media limitations, since everything had to fit on a single CD, 
 and they obviously didnt add anything significant to the PC version. 
  
  I must admit when I first tried multiplayer I thought it was kind of dumb, but once I got used 
 to the movement speed and which weapons to use, its a lot of fun and rather addicting. The use 
 of vehicles in multiplayer is excellent, particularly when team cooperation is used. Lag on line 
 has not been a problem either. 
  
  Im very sorry to read that so many other players have had problems with the functionality of this 
 title, but I can only speak for myself and I think Halo is a lot of fun and worth the purchase 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueDevil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2003 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a decent port of Halo from XBox. Graphics are cleaner and online multiplay is a great addition. 
 The high system requirements for smooth hi-res gameplay are a bit of a dissapointment though and 
 the AI seems a little off compaired to the XBox version. Specifically, units don't seem to notice 
 you untill you get fairly close or fire a shot. But overall this is a great game regardless of 
 the platform and these minor differneces. If you've havn't played Halo on XBox then get it for 
 PC!
  For owners of the XBox version - unless you are craving Halo online multiplay I don't think the 
 PC version really adds enough content to be worth rebuying the game at full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerdshoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2003 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for the Xbox since it launched and it is just as great if not better then 
 the Xbox version. This version has a few extra maps for multiplayer and they are very fun now being 
 able to play with a mouse. I can't believe how many kids are giving it poor scores because they 
 are jelous they do not get co-op (go get an Xbox and grow up) or because the game runs slow, or 
 simply just because it is MS and they are mad that MS bough Bungie and delayed the PC release for 
 so long. Things like this and the whole HL2 thing really makes me sad to know that there are so 
 many degenerates in the gaming community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maze
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2003 11:52 am PT
Review:  If you have played this game on the Xbox skip the single player and go straight to the Multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer is great and many cinematic sequences can occur in the heat of battle. Why I remember 
 on Death Island (by far the best map) . I was dog fighting in a banshee and 3 of my enemy's teammates 
 flew in and started to gang up on me. When I finnaly escaped I crashed in the water with only a 
 sliver of health. When the enemy closed in on me I was saved by my teammates who were in 2 tanks 
 and a rocket warthog and shot them down. Be warned though multiplay can get extremely annoying 
 with bad internet connections and huge ammounts of lag (even more than Unreal Championship) . But 
 if you can find a good server though, your in for a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew1969
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2003 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I own, and have played (& finished) every major PC game that has ever been published since DOOM 
 (and quite a few before that, even the First Microsoft Flight Sim) . I purchased an X-Box just so 
 I could play HALO, and I have never regretted it. This Game, in PC or X-Box format is truly one 
 of the greatest ever released. An engaging story, great action, and the undeniably best multi-player 
 component ever designed make HALO a must buy. People giving the PC version low reviews are simply 
 not being honest. If you own a PC, and never have played HALO, you owe it to yourself to purchase 
 this game. The only drawback is that to see it in all of its new, high-resolution glory, you will 
 have to own a hi-end PC. My machine (3.2GHz P4C, 1GB, 9700 Pro) even slows a little when the action 
 gets intense. So the code ain't perfect, but the rest of game more than makes up for it. Buy it, 
 you'll like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedgeski
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2003 1:41 am PT
Review:  (Note: this review is for the single player campaign only.)
  
  I've had my problems with this game, that's for sure. It regularly crashed on the opening Pillar 
 of Autumn levels, but after disabling a couple of innocuous background apps, I managed to get down 
 onto Halo and the problems (pretty much) went away. Odd, and irritating, given how long the PC 
 port has been coming, and that I haven't had any of these kinds of problems with a PC game for 
 years.
  
  Apart from that, this game is (mostly) genius. The silky smooth action, mind-blowing squad battles, 
 amazing enemy AI, beautiful vehicle control, and sheer *character* of the whole thing stands unequalled. 
 Graphically the game is head and shoulders above the current crop, with many ultra-modern DX9 effects 
 used in ways that no-one else has dared attempt as yet (HL2 and Doom3 notwithstanding) , giving 
 Halo a unique look that suits the distant sci-fi setting to a tee, and proving that poly-count 
 is a poor second place to per-pixel realism. Sound and music is equally high quality - check the 
 GS review for all the right things to say about that.
  
  The game does however seriously falls down in level design. Halo shines in large open areas, with 
 plenty of vehicles, plenty of team-mates, and plenty of bad guys to shoot. Inside, it can (and 
 usually does) become an exercise in copy-paste level design that exposes just how dangerously the 
 original XBox release date must have loomed over the project. The indoors action can be frantic 
 and highly enjoyable, but when you seem to fight the same battle six or seven times in a row, in 
 the same corridor or room, it eventually loses its appeal and you start praying for the exit. We 
 can look to Halo2 to fix these problems I hope.
  
  The other bone of contention seems to be performance. For the sake of argument, my specs: P4 2.4Gig, 
 Radeon 9500 Pro, Audigy2, half gig of RAM. I run Halo at 800x600 with all details maxed out and 
 a framerate cap of 30fps, and it plays just fine. In fact, some of the levels are huge and can 
 contain dozens of marines, Covenant, vehicles and effects, and they still run fine, even when zooming 
 over them at 500 feet in a Banshee. I get the occasional slow-down if I try 1024x768... so I don't 
 try it very often, though I'm sure if I had one of the really high-end Radeons I could do it easily. 
 Instead of requiring Bungie to justify the money you've spent on your PC with some phantom notion 
 of how you 'should' be running the game (wahh, no AA! wahh, no aniso!) , you should be enjoying 
 the attention lavished on the gameplay and get to grips with the fact that DX9 games are going 
 to push even current systems to the limits now and through the next year.
  
  So overall I was *very* disappointed in the stability problems, and marginally depressed by the 
 repetitive level design, but taken as a whole, Halo is on a par with other FPS crown jewels such 
 as Half-Life. Break the game down a little more, and some of the levels, notably those where you're 
 fighting alongside upwards of a dozen squaddies assaulting a Covenant position or escaping an alien 
 bunker, are simply the best FPS moments ever committed to a hard-drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingChainz55
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2003 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Halo is a good game is it the best first person shooter ever made no. Single player wise Metroid 
 Prime takes that category easily and multiplayer would have to be counter-strike. Now that doesn't 
 mean this isn't an excellent game. I think its funny how X-Box fan boys get upset that every exclusive 
 title on the X-Box becomes a multiple console/PC port. If you don't own halo for the X-Box which 
 if you own a X-Box and don't own Halo you prolly don't have any games except maybe knights of the 
 old republic which aside from jedi academy is the best stars wars game available. As far as lag 
 goes with multiplayer, its still fresh on the market people need to let this game get some time 
 so it can gather up some higher grade servers also if you have a poor connection to play with then 
 you will have lag on any first person shooter. If you never owned at least try it don't let fan 
 boys ruin your opinion of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ex-Machina
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 18, 2003 8:19 am PT
Review:  Lets get something straight "PC GAMERS!" HALO is the best game ever. It has nothing to do with 
 standards or that I like consoles better. I have all four major gaming stations. PC is one of those 
 four. It is not my favorite, and neither is the X-box, but HALO for the X-box is still the best 
 game ever made. To appreciate you have to play it on a big screen surround sound system on your 
 Xbox to judge it. You cant judge a console game by its computer counterpart. Halo was made for 
 the Xbox and was matched perfectly to console controllers, so it is only up to par with other PC 
 games when on the PC. But take PC games and put them on console and I could say ALL PC games are 
 bad because their PORTS do too. 
  I paid 300 bucks for my Xbox, 50 for halo, 80 on two extra controllers, and another 40 for High 
 Def AV pack. If HALO was my ONLY Xbox game that would be a 450 dollar game and that seems like 
 a fair price to me considering it is the best game I have EVER played not to mention worth somewhere 
 around 300 hours of fun, but by then HALO 2 will be out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truelove79
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 17, 2003 12:17 pm PT
Review:  i love the game, but i can definitely tell console gamers have lower standards when it comes to 
 FPS compared to PC gamers (considering xboxers claimed this game as being the best made or something 
 to that effect) . i'm a huge Medal of Honor fan (and basically anything that developement team puts 
 out) and that series on the PC just simply kicks the tar outta halo. i realize the graphics are 
 outdated, but sorry, they don't look up to par so i rated them low (well, sort of) . the effects 
 however, top notch. framerate is appauling just as everyone else said, the game was definitely 
 not optimized for PC. the only thing that really saves halo for PC is the gameplay. it is great, 
 the game is fun, funny, action, thinking, fastpaced, interesting, plot rocks, etc. etc. gameplay 
 is the most important category in my opinion and this is where halo shines. well, this review was 
 definitely confusing. basically, the game is great yet is lacking something for me. i just can't 
 quite put my finger on it. but i haven't played the multiplayer yet, and i've heard it's what really 
 makes the game worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onyx
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2003 11:21 am PT
Review:  For a game that came out in 2001 on the xbox, it is completely unacceptable for Halo to perform 
 the way it does on the PC. If you look at the tests run by Anandtech, using a cpu 300 mhz faster 
 than what i have with the same video card, they were only able to get 34.9 fps at 1024x768. Keeping 
 in mind this is an average framerate, and there were definitely times when the game would drop 
 below 30 fps. If they could lock the xbox version at 30 fps, how come in 2 years of development 
 they could not optimize it enough to do the same thing on the PC? The core game is still excellent, 
 as well as the addition of multiplayer, but how can one enjoy these facets of the game if you cannot 
 get decent performance even when you meet and exceed their system requirements? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ender
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 16, 2003 6:37 am PT
Review:  If you have never played halo on Xbox before then you will love this game. The 1 player game is 
 just amazing, worth every penny. The multiplayer is ok... I wouldn't get the game just for its 
 multiplayer, because it is hard to find a good server. Many people have problems with the lag, 
 and I can see what they mean when they refer to online play, but the 1 player portion has little 
 to none. 
  Gameplay- One of the best 1 player fps I've ever experienced!
  Graphics- They are just as good as Xbox's and better, but I expected a little more new things from 
 the pc version.
  Sound- It is always intertaining to hear the aliens running away from you in high pitched voices 
 and scares the crap outta you when you fight the rings aliens, reminds me of half-life.
  If you haven never played Halo before then i would recommend getting it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shegs
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 15, 2003 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Alright I have liked this game and been watching this game forever seriously and nothing killed 
 me more than when bungie was bought by M$ I thought I would never see this game on a playable platform
 
  and unfortunately now that it is here I wish it would go back, the things I wanted:
  1. co-op with co-op like in xbox but over the net life would be grand and fun finally there would 
 be a game worth playing co-op for
  2. mouse aiming whee this would rock if the mouse wasnt lagged 2 seconds behind
  3. the graphics 
 originally promised by bungie which I am sure are nice but I will never know cause I have to turn 
 everything off including pixelshading and everything else nice to even make the game playable
 
  
  I will say it like most when a game is released with obvious flaws it is a big shame on whoever 
 made it, I am not blaming bungie I am blaming gear box for a shotty port of an old game that would 
 be better just left alone if this game was exactly how it was for the xbox but with a mouse and 
 keyboard I would be happy I wouldnt be complete with the underpar graphics but at least they would 
 be better than what I have now
  
  so what I am saying is if I dont see some results with a patch I am never going to buy another 
 gearbox port again
  screw this and screw the people who made it happen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 15, 2003 12:58 pm PT
Review:  SOMETIMES IT KILLS ME WHEN GAMES LIKE THIS CAN GET A 9 OR BETTER.... IT IS NOT WORTHY OF A 9.... A 
 RATING OF 7 OR 8 IS MORE LIKE IT..... TO START.... WITH MY 3+ GHZ PC SPORTING A ATI PRO 9800... I 
 FOUND THE GAME PLAY TO BE A LITTLE SLOPPY... FRAME WISE THAT IS.... EVEN AT 1024 REZ...... IT'S PLAYABLE... AND 
 WITH ACCURACY AND ALL.... BUT I HATE JERKY MOVEMENTS WHEN I LOOK WITH THE MOUSE.... SECOND GRIPE.... I 
 FELT LIKE I KEPT DOING THE SAME STUFF OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER..... YOU GET THE POINT.... LEVELS 
 ARE VERY IDENTICAL.... AND THERE'S NOT MUCH VARIETY IN ENEMIES EITHER.... LIMITED WEAPONS, VEHICLES 
 AND RELATIVELY A SHORT GAME... FINISHED IN A FEW SITTINGS.... THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT THE GAME I 
 LIKE.... I JUST DON'T KNOW WHAT... IS IT WORTH 50 BEANS.... NO..... EVEN WITH THE NOVEL... IF I HADN'T.... I 
 WOULD WAIT TILL THIS GAME BECOMES A BARGAIN BIN PC GAME.... TOO BAD... I WAITED LONG ENOUGH JUST 
 TO PLAY SOMETHING THAT IS NOT ON A LEVEL WITH TONS OF FPS SHOOTERS FOR THE PC... I ALMOST ENJOYED 
 THE X-"TINCTION" BOX VERSION MORE..... ALMOST.... AS FOR THE ONLINE PLAY.... THERE'S NOTHING THERE 
 TO KEEP THE GAME ON MY HD.... SO NOW IT SITS IN ALPHABETA ORDER WITH THE OTHER 100+ GAMES I HAVE 
 COLLECTING A COLONY OF DUST MITES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VaDeR-FRL
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 13, 2003 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start: I like the game.
  It really takes you... The story line got me playing on and on.
  Graphics look really neat ect 
 ect.
  
  This game would get a higg score if the preformance on a decent
  PC wasn't so BAD.
  Nothing seems not to help, even if you have the latest and best
  hardware 
 around, incl latest and correct drivers + configuration.
  The preformance stays poor, sometimes unplayable.
  
  I guess a patch will be of great help, 
 but to be honnest:
  They sould have elimminated these things before they shipped 
  the game to worldwide stores.
  This too early release smells like a deadline-decision.
  Shame 
 on M$, who wants to make easy money with a really poor ported game: ( 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrEasy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2003 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I've reviewed this game for another site, which I won't link to. I gave the game the same score 
 there. This has received both positive and negative comments. I appreciate that some people are 
 having problems with the game. I did not, in either single or multiplayer, so I can't really comment 
 on that. What I have found, though, is that a lot of the negative comments excessively focus on 
 minor issues.
  
  I think that may people are simply failing to be objective, and I wonder how many actually played 
 the game. Halo is a ton of fun and it represent great value for money. Games rarely get better, 
 and to suggest that it score worse than the likes of Unreal II or Fire Warrior simply because of 
 some conversion issues is absurd.
  
  If you are deciding whether or not to buy this, then I suggest two things: Wait for the demo, and 
 look for objective reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2003 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a review of ONLY the SP portion of the game. Wow, it's hard to believe this thing garnered 
 a 9+ in the GameSpot review. The story is juvenile and over used (agressive aliens who've just 
 about wiped out humanity and you're one of the few left to save everyone's butt -- VERY INNOVATIVE) . 
 I know it's a game but, I really expect more story than what's delivered in this package. The AI, 
 even at the harder levels, is average at best. The weapons (human & Covenant) are lame (no wonder 
 the humans have been getting their butts kicked) . The outdoor levels are pretty but when that's 
 balanced against the poor coding that cause this thing to be a huge HARDWARE HOG -- be prepared for 
 exceptionally poor frame. The sound is good but, then we expect that in a modern game don't we? 
 You want to talk about gameplay? Well, let's just say the average AI and poor frame rate should 
 advise you to adjust your expectations accordingly. For half it's price this game would've been 
 a good value; as is, where's my $25.00 rebate Microsoft & Bungie?! If you're pressed for a FPS 
 game this might fill your bill, otherwise-anyone want a copy for $10.00? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rem25
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 12, 2003 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so many of you here who already reviewed and those who haven't love Halo on the X-Box, 
 there's no denying that. That was the first game my friends bought on the X-Box release and it's 
 still the game we play the most, it's that damn good and fun. I, like many others, have been pumped 
 to be playing the PC version of the game. When I bought it and started playing it in single player 
 mode, it was just like on the X-Box. I beat the game fairly quickly. Then I went to play multiplayer 
 online.....
  
  Oh wow was I in for a huge suprise. The game has horrible horrible lag, just like many of the other 
 reviewers here have said. I was first just playing on 16 player maps cuz that seemed the most fun. 
 Let me tell you, when you're walking across the map and for no reason end up back in your base, 
 it's very frustrating. I started playing on the smaller player maps, no more than 10 usually and 
 that helped some. I turned down the graphics and anti-aliasing on my graphics card but it didn't 
 do much. There are still times when lag is so bad you just die for what seems to be no reason. 
 I've said while playing if anyone else has had lag and some say yes it's horrid and some say "what 
 lag?". A big part of why most people bought Halo PC was for the multiplayer undoubtedly. Well it's 
 not fun when you're just dying and lagging and can't do a thing about it. I have managed with the 
 smaller players and that, but you should be able to enjoy small maps with lots of players with 
 no problems whatsoever. 
  
  Another thing is the weapons. The flamethrower and the fuel rod cannon are a great addition to 
 the arsenal of weapons at your disposal. The flamethrow effect is really not that impressive, I've 
 seen much better, especially in Unreal 2. Maybe it's me, but it seems that the sniper rifle and 
 shotgun are not as good as they were in the x-box. I've shot guys with a full round of shotgun 
 shells and they don't die. I've unloaded a full clip of sniper ammo into a guy's head and he didn't 
 die. Maybe it's partially the lag, but last time I checked, a head shot with the sniper rifle is 
 an instant death. The assault rifle seems to be stronger than on the x-box. 
  
  Also, with the banshee in multiplayer. What good is a flying vehicle if you can get shot down w/ 
 a pistol or shotgun because you're so low in the air? I played on sidewinder and the "roof" of 
 the level is so low I was killed by a pistol and shotgun. I can understand the pistol, but a shotgun?? 
 There isn't really a point to using it if there's a roof to the level, and again where's the fun 
 in that? None, that's what. 
  
  Overall, I had no problem with the single player campaign, although the lag was really crappy when 
 there are a lot of monsters and shooting and explosions going on. The graphics aren't too bad and 
 the sound is good. The multiplayer gameplay is a huge problem though. I surely hope they fix it 
 soon and make sure these problems don't happen when it gets released on the mac. Could've been 
 great, but falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 10, 2003 2:47 am PT
Review:  So Ive had Halo for my Xbox for a couple of years now and I vowed Id never sell it. Its been 
 one of the best games Ive ever owned. Because of this I was also very much looking forward to 
 its release on PC so I could play online and show off my mad skills. However when I first started 
 playing the PC version of Halo I noticed that the game was both identical to its Xbox counterpart 
 and, at the same time, radically different. 
  
  So what is the same I know youre wondering. Basically the entire single player campaign feels 
 exactly the same to me and Ive played them all a countless number of times. What is so radically 
 different? As you might have guessed the online multiplayer aspect is what has really changed so 
 much (compared to playing Halo on a Xbox LAN) . Putting aside all the new weapons, vehicles, and 
 maps the control for the multiplayer has changed somehow. Im not just talking about the fact that 
 youre playing with a keyboard and mouse. Its something elsesomething Ill try to explain. First 
 off it feels like the developers have dumbed-down some of the weapons. The shotgun for example 
 does not feel near as powerful as it did on the Xbox version. Trying to get a kill with that thing 
 is dang-near impossible. Same goes for the Sniper Rifle. It could be the fact that the network 
 is less than perfect or that the weapons are just weak. Its hard to say. All I know is that Ive 
 pretty much given up using the previously mentioned weapons. Ive had better luck with other weapons 
 but still, most weapons dont feel as powerful as they did. Of course thats not a huge deal. I 
 mostly use vehicles or the Fuel Rod Cannon (new weapon) to get the most frags, as do other players. 
 The Fuel Rod Cannon and the Flamethrower are, for me, welcome additions to the arsenal of available 
 weapons. 
  
  Another difference is dealing with network lag on the PC version. On the Xbox you're playing on 
 a LAN that doesn't have bottlenecks and guys trying to play with a 56k modem so the gameplay was 
 pretty smooth. However Halo on PC has all these things and doesn't respond well to them. Stay away 
 from all online games that have a ping rate higher than 100ms. The game is practically unplayable. 
 You seriously will be jumping around all other the map (so will other players) . Youll think youve 
 entered a door and gone inside a building when POOF!... youre back outside right in front of some 
 guy in a tank ready to shoot you. Im not even kidding. Hopefully theyll get that fixed with future 
 patches. 
  
  Another thing that is a shame about the PC version of Halo is the lack of cooperative play. This 
 is one thing that really made the Xbox version so awesome. Why Gearbox couldn't make this work 
 I don't know. Probably just too lazy.
  
  One thing that I found amazing about the PC version of Halo compared to the Xbox version is that 
 the loading time for online maps is almost nonexistent. Everytime Ive joined an online game, maybe 
 2 to 5 seconds will go by and Ill be in playing. I don't have the fastest computer either. This 
 is one big bonus to the PC version of Halo.
  
  So what you want to know is whether or not to buy this game. Here is the answer. If you dont have 
 an Xbox then you should get this game (doesn't matter whether you've played it before or not) . 
 If you have an Xbox already but are a huge halo fan and can hold your own playing multiplayer you 
 should get this game. If you already have Halo for the Xbox but youre a little squeamish in multiplayer 
 games then it probably wouldnt be worth it to you. I wish I could recommend this game to everyone 
 but the fact is that some Xbox owners will not think its worth the price tag. 
  
  Either way you look at it the PC version cannot replace the Xbox version and visa-versa. Both are 
 excellent and, for me, both have a place in my small but distinguished collection of games.
  
  PS For more information on the Xbox version of Halo see my reader review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffrok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2003 12:52 am PT
Review:  Playing on an AMD 1800XP system w/GeForce4/Ti4600 graphics I had NO problems running this game 
 nicely at 800x600 -is totally smooth! At 1024x768 I did notice less than average performance on 
 frame rates. Graphics aren't that complex, so I can see why it doesn't run smoother. However I 
 usually prefer to play my FPS's at 800x600 alot of times, so it's no big deal with me.
  
  Ok simma down na.... I really didn't think this game would come close to impress me. Figured just 
 because it was big for the Xbox consoles, it wouldn't
  probably hold up against the many other great FPS's that have run across my PC! I started watching 
 the movies on Gamespot and gradually did get interested, so when I found it on sale for $39 I felt 
 it was a good value for a brand new game. (I probably wouldn't had bought it if I had to pay the 
 full $49)
  
  Well I was surprised because I was VERY impressed with Halo. It has a really great story, wonderfully 
 done cut scenes, simple controls, and the best part is the variety of vehicles that make it extremely 
 fun,& addictive to play! I haven't yet tried the MP version online...
  
  So if you have a good gaming PC and ever liked Half Life, you'll really get a blast out of this 
 game, it's really fun, and DOES hold it's own darn well on the PC! Cheers!!! -JK-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngdi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2003 3:34 pm PT
Review:  There is no excuse to cut this game any slack in the graphics and stability department. The models 
 are bad, especially the faces. Just embarassing. Lip-syncing to the voice track, if you can even 
 call that syncing, is pathetic. If this game was called anything else, it would have gotten below 
 an 8, regardless of the design quality, since it has high-res stability problems, major slowdown, 
 and only 16 player multiplayer support. 
  
  Shame on the reviewer for exposing his bias. A tilt of 10? On a 2 year old CONSOLE PORT??? Are 
 you nuts? How can you give the gameplay a 9, when 16 players is hardly a game, compared to BF1942's 
 64 player and better vehicle support; and slowdown in SP is so bad, it's nearly unplayable at decent 
 resolutions. And, they took out the co-op play, which is probably the most fun way to even play 
 the game. The sound is fine, albeit a bit unstable in the cutscenes, and hardly worth a 9.
  
  I don't think I've seen anything better than an all around 9.4 for PC games. And that's Halflife. 
 An extremely well deserved 9.4. Console games, like monotonous skater games and bad shooters, get 
 high scores becasue they are limited to their hardware and thus receive a little credit. Halo could 
 have been and should have been improved in the 2 YEARS it took to port onto PC. If it was going 
 from console to console, I would understand the 9.0, but not on PC. I assumed the 9.0 from GS meant 
 it had been improved. 640x800 might be ok for a 700 mhz Gforce2 Xbox, but not for my rig. 
  
  This is the most out of whack 9.0 I've ever seen. A PC 9.0 on this site means that I have to 
 go out and buy the game. Doesn't matter what kind of game, or what anyone else says, because GS 
 is the bomb. 
  
  In this case.... I'm sorry I did. I don't even bother playing anymore, at least not until the engine 
 hopefully gets a MAJOR patch. Maybe I should be glad I didn't buy GTA either for the PC. After 
 this.... who can you trust?
  
  Shame, shame I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moacg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 8, 2003 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I almost did not pick this up due to all of the negative comments about how slow it was. I am now 
 very glad I got the game. It ran fine on my P4 2.53 (Geforce 4 TI 4200 (64MB) ) at 800x600 and was 
 tad slow at 1024x768, but there wasn't enough of a difference in quality to warrant the higher 
 res, so I ran it at 800x600 with no problems.
  
  While it was relatively short, it was a tremendous amount of fun. I loved the vehicles and how 
 easy they were to control. Combat was a tad repititious, but made sense for the most part. I really 
 looked forward to playing the game when I would get the chance.
  
  I immediately disliked not being able to save where I wanted to, but there were so many checkpoints 
 that I quickly dismissed that as a problem. Aside from that, I really don't have any complaints. 
 I've not played a shooter on a console before, but I can't imagine how it could really be fun without 
 a keyboard/mouse combo. That said, I think I may wind up giving HALO2 on the XBox a chance anyway, 
 simply because I enjoyed this one so much :-) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 7, 2003 12:34 pm PT
Review:  LISTEN LISTEN for all of u who couldntrun this game good i got the soloution!!!!!!! IM running 
 a 2.0 ghz 768mb of ram with an ati radeon 9700. IN order to run the game properly u must disable 
 anti-alising on your video card!!!! SET ur framerate to 30fps in the game which it comes set on. 
 DOIN THIS i can run the game at higest resoloution and higest setttings. People make sure u do this 
 if u dont and cant play it smoothly well ur missing out on a great game. THE graphics are great 
 the sound is awsome along with the gameplay. Multiplayer is good but future patches will fix the 
 lag problems the occasionly occur. SO if ur having trouble running this game TURN OFF ur antialising 
 and have fun playin halo for the pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 7, 2003 3:15 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting eons for the PC vesion of Halo after reading the Xbox reviews. They were right 
 - the game as written for the Xbox is awesome. The story is superb, as is the character interaction 
 and game sounds and music. The vehicle battles are great and much more fun than others I've played 
 on other PC titles.
  
  Now for the bad stuff. The PC conversion by Gearbox is a disgrace. The graphics must be played 
 at 800x600 or less to achieve a tolerable framerate. Based on the outdated engine, this is ludicrous. 
 Splinter Cell and Chaser play without a hiccup on my system with all graphic options set at the 
 maximum. Furthermore, I experienced constant crashes and loss of the scripted soundtrack until 
 I switched my CD player from my Toshiba DVD-Rom to my Plextor CD-R. This is the first game title 
 that I've played that has had any problem with my 2 year old Toshiba DVD-Rom. Microsoft and Gearbox 
 - shame on you for doing such a lousy job on this conversion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwcid67
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 6, 2003 1:27 pm PT
Review:  COULDVE BEEN GREAT..
  
  HALO for the PC couldve been a great game if they had optimized the graphics engine better than 
 they did (or should I say didnt??) . The graphics bog down in resolutions over 800X600 so badly 
 that the game is almost unplayable and certainly un-enjoyable. Im running an Athlon XP 2800+ with 
 1 gigabyte of PC3700 DDR memory and a GeForce FX 5600 256Mb video card with all available updates. 
 While this isnt the fastest rig on the planet it is a lot faster than the minimum specs listed 
 to run the game. Even at 800X600 resolution there is some video lag during larger firefights. I 
 hope the next patch fixes this problem or I wont bother to play the game, its more aggravation 
 than its worth.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkiiii
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 6, 2003 10:55 am PT
Review:  I had Halo for the x-box back when it originally came out. Single player was good but the most 
 fun was had when a buddy and I went at it until 3 in the morning in co-op mode. I thought it was 
 a very good FPS but, I don't understood what all of the hoopla is about. Every time you read an 
 article about the game or past reviews, everyone makes it seem like Halo was the best thing since 
 sliced bread. 
  Personally, I have played better. And now eons later (ok, not really but long enough) , here comes 
 the long awaited PC version. I didn't buy the game myself but a friend of mine did so I had to 
 check it out on the PC. Well guess what. I played the first level and played a little of the game 
 after Master Chief lands on the planet and I was unimpressed. I actually did not want to play it 
 again. The graphics looked dated and there was massive slow down to boot. The PC had more than 
 enough power to run it so I don't get what happened. Unfortunately I did not try the multiplayer 
 but after playing games like Battlefield 1942, I doubt that this mode will revolutionize anything.
 
  My final thought on this is that if you haven't played Halo before it's worth the purchase to 
 just go through the single player game but, expect graphics that are dated and hope that your PC 
 will run the game at an acceptable frame rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2003 10:35 am PT
Review:  I play Halo for the Xbox it was good and this PC version in no different. The graphics aren't as 
 good now as they were then but are still great. The gameplay is almost the same. The sound is good 
 overall the assault rifle is the best. The thing I still don't think is the level design, it lacks 
 in detail at times. It also can be very baren and often it seems like every room is the same. I 
 don't know what the other reviewers are talking about the frame rate. I just didn't fiddle with 
 the settings and it work fine. If haven't played Halo for Xbox then get it and if you are really 
 good at Halo for Xbox then don't get it. If you like action games then is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanandchewie
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2003 8:23 am PT
Review:  Halo for PC is definitely not a perfect game, but there is something about it that most other shooters 
  Half-life, Quake 3, Unreal 2 and Unreal Tournament 2003, etc  lack: a sense of completeness. 
 This does not mean that these other shooters are bad. They just dont do everything as well as 
 Halo does, with the notable exception of graphics.
  
  Gameplay: Halo is one of the most entertaining first-person-shooters to date, if not the most. 
 The combat is well done. Even on repetitive levels such as the Library, strategy is required to 
 proceed. The enemy AI, even on the Standard difficulty level, is believable. The weapons are balanced, 
 and you can only carry two at once. Bungie did an excellent job balancing realism and fun, and 
 it shows.
  
  Multiplayer is just as entertaining, although you may have to sort through the somewhat clumsy 
 GameSpy interface to find a stable server. Once youre on, though, the overall gameplay is unmatched. 
 Sure, Counter-Strike is more realistic. Unreal Tournament 2003 has more maps and more mods. But 
 both those games have a high online learning curve. Halo is balanced so that all players can get 
 a kill every once in a while (even if it is a mistaken grenade throw) , and team multiplayer is 
 intuitive enough that everyone can fall into place and play a role, unlike other team shooters 
 where most newbies have no idea what to do.
  
  Graphics: Halo PCs biggest fault is clearly its graphics. For some reason, they dont seem to 
 run very well, even on the most powerful of systems. There are ways to improve the frame rate, 
 such as typing useff or use11 in the command prompt to disable or lower the pixel shading, 
 but Halo doesnt look very good without full pixel shading.
  
  Sound: Everything about Halos sound is excellent, if not perfect. The weapons sound right, the 
 soundtrack is well orchestrated (the battle music really sets the tone for the combat) , and the 
 voice acting couldnt be better.
  
  Value: If you do not have the Xbox version of Halo, then the pc version is worth every penny. If 
 you have played the Xbox version to death and are part of a thriving multiplayer community on Xbox, 
 there is no reason to buy Halo for pc. The new maps are great, but do not justify a $50 purchase.
 
  
  
  Note: If Gearbox can optimize the graphics better in a patch, then the graphics rating would go 
 up to 9 and the gameplay rating, which is knocked down by one point because of frame rate inconsistencies, 
 would become a 10. The overall score would rise from 8.8 to 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schizz
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 6, 2003 2:21 am PT
Review:  Short and sweet. 
  Multiplayer is lame. Singleplayer is very fun. To call this game a PC classic and compare it to 
 games such as Half-Life and Doom does a dis-service to what the PC really has to offer over the 
 platforms out there. Is it a fun shooter? Yes. Is the story good? Yes. Is it comparable to games 
 such as Doom or Half-Life? No way. I won't replay Halo like I did those games. Half-Life is still 
 installed on my machine and will be played through again. Once I am done with Halo it will be uninstalled 
 due to the lacluster multiplayer and overall weak replay value. I just don't feel I got my $50 
 worth on this one. Especially after the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullfucker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 5, 2003 11:51 am PT
Review:  I don't know why all these guys are giving bad reviews on this game. Yeah it is a straight port 
 from the xbox as far as single player goes. But the multiplayer experience in my opinion is great. 
 These so called "SUPERCOMPUTERS" that everyone are running must not be configured properly.
  
  I am running a Dual P4 Xeon 2.4Ghz with 1.5gig of PC800 RDRAM and a Nvidia Quadra 4 XGL 900 
 128meg video card. The game runs great at a resolution of 1024 x 768. Yeah multiplayer lags a little 
 but I blame that on my internet connection. I only have a 128kps upstream with 1.5meg downstream. 
 I have been playing in rooms with 75 or lower ping with 16 players and the lag is minimal. Most 
 lag occurs when everyone is in close combat.
  
  The new maps are great addins and I hope they map more available as time goes on. The graphics 
 beat the xbox hands down. The sprites and map textures look superb on my 20" flat screen. All you 
 guys that are giving low reviews need to look at all settings on your computers or just quit playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brvids
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 5, 2003 9:11 am PT
Review:  Halo is the best FPS ever made. Now it's out on the PC and just as good as ever! I was a little 
 concerned about it being a graphical hog, but you can tweak and get the game running perfectly 
 smooth on just about any fairly new computer system. The game runs perfectly smooth on max setting 
 at 800x600 on my system (2.4ghz p4, 1gig pc2700, radeon 9700 pro) which is better resolution than 
 the xbox version. People who were looking for a different game all together should look to Halo 
 2 on xbox. Because they said from the beginning all they were doing was moving the game over from 
 the xbox. The main improvements made are solely in the multiplayer part of the game and I must 
 say they are AWESOME!!! The multiplayer part of the game is so much fun! Flying around banshees 
 and dogfighting in the air, or blasting the crap out of somebody in a scorpion tank just kicks 
 arse!!! I think Gearbox did an excellent job moving this game to PC. However, I am extremely dissappointed 
 that there is no Co-op mode. But it is possible that it will come later and I still have to give 
 the game high marks. This game is very much worth the money. There are so many FPS that are just 
 crap and not worth a dime. This is NOT one of them. It was an awesome game on xbox and it's just 
 as awesome on the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techfreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2003 5:03 am PT
Review:  A great game, not so great port. The game needs more optimization. For a game that runs on average 
 30-50 fps, the graphic is quite disappointing. I'm able to keep it in the 70-80 fps range but with 
 low graphic settings, and this is with Radeon 9700 pro. On Xbox the game probably runs at sub 30 
 fps and it still looks good. I guess pc gamers are just too use to much higher frame rate than 
 console games. Besides the graphic lag issue, the rest of the game lives up to the hype. Multiplayer 
 is pretty fun and lot less laggy than single player levels. I do miss the co-op mode for single 
 player tho. Also Multiplayer has some gun and vehicle balance issues at the moment, but I'm sure 
 they will be fixed, hopefully the graphic lag problem too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-V-S
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 4, 2003 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Well I have played through three levels and I'm pretty impressed with this game. I am not an avid 
 gamer but I do enjoy a good FPS, and this one delivers. I must admit that you need a pretty good 
 system to play this. My score is very unbias because HALO works on my system very well. I run it 
 at 800x600 and get about 45FPS in battle and about 75 when things are calm. That is with all settings 
 on high. The AI is excellent if you ask me. Elites always dodging bullets and grunts throwing plasma 
 grenades. I understand peoples frustration with the graphics. Yes the graphics are almost three 
 years old, but I think Gearbox wrote it for 2003. And why people keep comparing it to HL2 I'll 
 never understand. The game looks absolutely beautiful in Truth & Reconciliation. All the reflections 
 and bump mapping. Anyway, take this for what it's worth. I enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_mccol
Rating: 2.1
Date: Oct 4, 2003 11:52 am PT
Review:  WOW, I am suprised at how terrible a port this game is. I loved the xbox version, and I am a HAlo 
 fan. SO, of course I go pick this little copy up for the pc, and to my dismay its horrible. First 
 off I am running a 2.8ghz radeon 9800 256mb with 1 gig ram. Even with this machine, the game just 
 doesn't run well. Trying to play multiplayer is just not fun, and thats the whole reason I got 
 this game. The smmoth gameplay and graphics found in the xbox version are diminished in this port. 
 Probably the most important part of multiplayer is the gameplay. Due to horrible netcoding, laggy 
 gameplay, low fps, and just general horrible feel to the game, I am very unhappy with this. DO 
 not buy this game, the only reason i got a high score on gamespot is because Greg, I love him anyway, 
 would marry Halo if it was legal. Bungie might aswell have taken a crap in a box and slapped Halo 
 on the side. Future patches may help with some of the issues, but they have already had two years 
 to get these problems out of the way, and well they haven't. Besides the multiplayer, the rest 
 of the game is just a carbon copy, by that a mean its much worse like the carbon copy from a CC 
 receit, of xbox Halo. I can not stress this enough, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME, unless it goes on sale 
 for $9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousGeorge
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 4, 2003 5:16 am PT
Review:  The only thing really wrong with this game is performance. The sound is good, the dialog is good, 
 and Halo for pc is a faithful decendent from the xbox counterpart. What is really going to turn 
 you off is how poorly the graphics are optimized for performance. Microsoft advertises that the 
 game will run in resolutions up to 1600 x 1200 with a high end graphics card, and this is obviously 
 either an intentional misrepresentation of the product or they simply never tried. I have a P4 
 3.2 GHz with Hyperthreading, an MSI Geforce FX 5900 128-TD and 512 MB of Kingston PC 3500 HyperX 
 Ram. With resolution set to 1024 by 768, the bugs will shoot your but off. So why did I buy this 
 game after all the "flaming" of Halo for the PC? Posterity, and it runs "okay", but merely so, 
 at 800 by 600. It was still on sale for the promotional 39.00 where I purchased it, and Microsoft 
 hardly EVER discounts their games ( at least you'll have to wait longer ) . I would like to know 
 what secret super-computer they are testing games on at Gearbox and Microsoft, because this game 
 runs like molases on my "supercomputer". It is hands down, the worst optimization of a graphics 
 engine, or lack there of, I have ever seen. Gearbox also brought us the 'famous' James Bond: Nigthfire 
 and that XBOX to PC port also had fairly pitiful graphics engine optimization. I still have the 
 impression that this game is "hyped up" and miss represented by the people who have to sell it, 
 and it is going to disappoint enough good honest people with good honest consumer expectations 
 that I think I am going to assess Microsoft's loyalty to the consumer base by whether or not they 
 take this issue seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagan02
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2003 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this game ISN'T perfect, but it's just as good -- if not better- then the Xbox version.
 
  First, the multiplayer is 'okay', it's pretty good, but as a multiplayer game, it's average, not 
 anything special at all.
  
  But the single player is where the game shines, for once in a FPS, there's actually a good storyline!
 
  
  The AI is amazing, they dodge your shots, run away from your 'nades, hide behind pillars... and 
 the elites actually try to run away when their shields run out in attempt to allow them to recharge, 
 just like you, it's amazing how well the AI is down, espiacially in legendary mode.
  
  Now this is where people have problems, they try to crank a direct port of the Xbox version to 
 higher resolution when the game wasn't optimized to be above 640x480 and 30FPS... seriously people, 
 the game looks great at max detail and 30 FPS with 640x480... IMHO the game looks warped at anything 
 higher then that.. I fail to see the point in going higher when the game doesn't look any better 
 higher then that....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheckMate
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 3, 2003 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I have played Halo through on the Xbox and I couldn't wait for it to come to PC. But I would not 
 recommend anyone who has played this on Xbox to purchase it for PC unless you absolutely must experience 
 it. If you are looking for multiplay in Halo, just wait a couple of months for Halo 2 which will 
 have online play. The game is just better on the Xbox. But don't confuse this statement into equating 
 that Halo is better BECAUSE of the Xbox, as some fanboys would like to think. It runs better on 
 the Xbox because Microsoft made it happen this way.
  
  Obviously Microsoft does not want this game to run well on anything but the Xbox. Frame rate is 
 absolutely atrocious for a game that should run as well as any game using a Quake III era engine 
 (yes, I know, Halo does NOT use the Quake III engine) . With a machine that runs Unreal 2 at a fairly 
 steady 60 fps in high resolution with details maxed, there is absolutely no reason Halo should 
 crawl down to 12-15fps on my PC when there are more than four Covenant on screen. This occurs even 
 with the fps of Halo capped at 30 (which is recommended) , no AA, etc and a resolution of 1024x768. 
 Inexcusable.
  
  The mouse and keyboard control is the highlight of Halo on PC. Playing on Legendary is actually 
 a significant but enjoyable challenge because it is wonderful to witness Covenant AI while not 
 being completely handicapped by the analog stick control found on the Xbox (which leads to nothing 
 but aggravation) . Some of the fire-fights with the Elites are quite remarkable, lengthy, and filled 
 with strategy tactics. Unfotunately the Halo experience on Halo is hampered by horrible performance. 
 Even on high end hardware (AMD 2700XP+, 1Gb 2700DDR, ATI 9700 Pro) .
  
  Don't get me wrong. I love Halo. It would be worth about $20.00 in its current state. I don't know 
 what took so long to bring this game back to PC. Microsoft has repeatedly claimed that the Xbox 
 and PC games are easy to port to each other, yet it took so very, very long to get this game back 
 to PC, and apparently, they didn't spend any time making this game perform. I have had no performance 
 issue's with Xbox ports that have better graphics than Halo (examples: Splinter Cell and Enclave) 
 I feel Microsoft is to blame for this, not Gearbox IMHO. Shame on you Microsoft for putting your 
 Xbox strategy before gaming enthusiasm.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 3, 2003 9:03 am PT
Review:  WHAT A DISSAPOINTMENT!!! I don't buy the xbox and wait 2 YEARS for this, and what do I get? Bad 
 graphics, decent story, horrible lag time, horrible load time, and everything else I can be so 
 aggitated about. I mean the game is decent. No doubt about that. Its good. But give me a break. 
 If Bungie or whoever had the great idea to wait this long to bring a game to PC and NOT EVEN HAVE 
 THE DECENCY MAKE IT A LITTLE BETTER THAN A CONSOLE GAME, then i say shame on you!! shame, shame, 
 shame! they should be embarassed. No graphics enhancement, no multiplayer coop, no work on lag 
 time or load time. Basically i feel sick that I waited and spent money on this game. back it goes 
 i say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowRowe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 3, 2003 7:37 am PT
Review:  Great game.... good port. You've read about the frame rate issues... a hundred times over. Let me 
 be the first to say that they are NOT THAT big of a deal. Yes, they are annoying and frustrating, 
 but once you find the right balance of settings in the options menu, the game is silky smooth for 
 the most part. Chances are, alot of folks are trying to jack up the FPS beyond 30, which is big 
 mistake number 1. Leave it at 30 (the way it's meant to be played) , rather than trying to sync 
 with the refresh rate (which will kill performance) .
  
  Now that that's out of the way, this game is still incredible - sometimes I think even more so 
 on the PC with the mouse/keyboard control. Great AI... the best I've ever seen. Great story. Great 
 sound. Great gameplay. By the way, play Legendary setting on the PC.... especially those who mastered 
 the XBox version. It will provide much more satisfaction than the lower difficulty settings.
  
  This is a game, even in its less than perfect port state, that simply oozes style. It's a game 
 that truly reflects the TLC that Bungie put into developing every facet of the game (OK, except 
 maybe the repetitive level design) . But no game is perfect. This one remains as one of my personal 
 favorites and you would be wise to pick it up on the PC. Just understand the graphical limitations, 
 adjust accordingly, and enjoy.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 2, 2003 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Glad it is out for PC finally. Tried it on X-box but couldn't get used to game controller. 
 Ten times better on PC with mouse/keyboard. Makes it much more playable and enjoyable. It gets 
 a little tiresome at times with just run and gun tactics without much problem solving, but great 
 game nonetheless.
  
  All these whiners about frame rate must not have turned off VSync from within the HALO options. 
 If you disable VSync you should get great frame rates. I run at 1280x960 32Bit and get great frame 
 rates. My system is a P4-3.66 GHz with Radeon 9700 PRO. I do get on occassion a minor slowdown 
 when things get REAL hectic, but nothing terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tychoSIX
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 2, 2003 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Next time I purchase a computer game I will be sure to buy it from a store with a return policy. 
 If you already own the x-box version of this game do yourself a favor and keep your $50. The subpar 
 graphics are and OK gameplay make me wonder just what took so long to get this title on the PC.
 
  
  Some people may think I'm not being fair, but I am a fan of Bungie and am a strong advocate for 
 PC games over consoles. HALO for the PC however does not bode well, it perhaps shaken my faith. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vassago151
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 2, 2003 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I also have been waiting for this game long before the xbox version came out. what a huge huge 
 dissapointment. I have a p4-3.2 system with 1 gig ram and a Radeon 9800 Pro and it is so slow it 
 is pretty much unplayable most of the time. The textures look terrible and the color palette looks 
 washed out and drab. If you own or have owned the xbox version STAY AWAY from this crap. Hell, 
 stay away from it even if you dont. Wait for Half-Life 2. This game just feels old and outdated, 
 and slow slow SLOW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiny
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 2, 2003 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Egads, what an awful port! I have to say im absolutely elated that you all are saying what Greg 
 Kasavin (the video reviewer) didn't have the balls to: This game's graphics are ABYSMAL and the 
 framerate is TERRIBLE as well (and a 'stick it in your ear' goes to those folks who want to pull 
 the "but the animations are better" card) . The game suffers from the same thing GTA did (although 
 GTA3 had much better framerates) : Lots of popup, fps slowdowns, and terribly low-quality texture 
 maps. This is an awful port of an awesome console game. And the real kicker is that it took TWO 
 FRIGGIN YEARS for them to make it! Ive seen companies make Linux ports faster than that and with 
 better results. The gameplay, mechanics, storyline, etc are otherwise awesome and so is the music 
 score. Its too bad that Gamespot decided to ask the president of the Nerds for Halo fanclub review 
 this game, else the review might have approached realistic. 9.0 my ass. When you are pushing 15FPS 
 with a 3.2ghz 800mhz fsb, radeon 9800 pro 256, then you CAN'T POSSIBLY GIVE THIS GAME OVER A 7.5.
 
  
  If you don't have an Xbox and you are craving to play an alien-themed shooter with Super Nintendo-like 
 textures at 10 frames per second, then pick up a copy of Halo for the PC.
  
  By the by, if there's a patch that fixes these problems. I take this all back. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montana
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 23, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since the developers threw everybody a curve ball about what 
 platform it would be coming out on first. Alas the wait was not worth it.
  
  My system boasts a P4-2.66 Ghz, 512 DDR Ram, Nvidia FX 5600 Ultra. You would think I could get 
 decent frame rate but that is not the case  at times the game bogs down to almost unplayable. 
 Could be some tweaking on my part is required nonetheless "out of the box" and "installed" is giving 
 me fits.
  
  Probably not fair that I am taking my tech problems out on the game but even during those short 
 episodes where FR is not a problem I am not experiencing the kind of expected gaming goodness assumed 
 for so long. The visuals are OK but not much different than games of 2 or 3 years ago. The audio 
 is OK but nothing to write home about. The story? Well I guess the Half-Life phenomenon has not 
 taken hold with any other developers. So what about the bad guys? Well you are going to get real 
 tired shooting at the same 3 or 4 through the entire single player campaign.
  
  All in all the game is more than a bit of a disappointment. 
  
  One pretty neat thing however 
 is seeing what Larry Nivens wonderful "Ring World" series of SF novels would be like if you could 
 actually live in such an environment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzomatrix1000
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 1, 2003 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok basically I'm giving this game a bad review, not because its just a port from the XBox, but 
 because of the serious framerate problems. I run a 2800 athlon xp, 1.5gb of ddr ram, a geforce 
 fx 5900 and yet this game cant run well even on the lowest settings. With all other programs shut 
 down in the background as well. I will admit that when the graphics are turned up it looks very 
 nice, but it is IMPOSSIBLE to play that way. On the lowest settings it is playable for a while 
 but as soon as some baddies start firing, they crap out. I give this game a 4.7 out of 10 thanks 
 to the possible worst porting abilities by bungie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praxis22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2003 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit I love the game, I took a week of work to play it on Xbox on release day. I didn't sleep 
 much over the next 4 days, reaching for the "Red Bull" more than once. I was playing it in a foriegn 
 language, and I spent the whole time on my feet, because otherwise you can't dodge the bullets... 
 I actually got lost in the swamp, and my first thought was to find higher ground, so I could see 
 where I was, It's that immersive. 
  
  But that was then, this is now, and I have to say that Gearbox have made hard work out of what 
 should have been an easy port. There is some popup, the textures are overbright, the models appear 
 to be lower res, more angular, and there is significant slowdown at very high res. Once you turn 
 all the detail on, and trick out your card. Those, and the lack of co-op, (one of the Xbox's strength's) 
 are the bad points...
  
  The good points are that it's, well, Halo... It is the best game I've ever played in some 25 years 
 of playing games. It has both style & substance. I don't play multiplayer, don't play online, so 
 to me, the single player game is what counts, and here Halo has it in spades. Two years later my 
 friend and I are still regularly talking about this game over a beer in the steakhouse. More than 
 anything else Halo is "an experience" it's as close to gaming nirvana a I've ever got, to the point 
 that I can feel the rush as I stare at the Halo2 demo. Knowing, that at some point it will be me 
 stepping off the pelican and into harm's way again...
  
  If anything I think somebody at Microsoft ought to camp out at Gearbox and demand that they make 
 good on Halo's promise. I believe they owe it both to Bungie, and to the players, to see it done 
 right. This is a bad port of a wonderfull game, to the point where you may be better off buying 
 an Xbox to play it, (and Halo2) than having to suffer through what I hope are just teething troubles. 
 
  
  But be in no doubt, this is a truly great game, and bad port aside that's what I think people should 
 know. If you haven't already, you should play Halo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakeskull
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2003 11:34 am PT
Review:  All I can say is SLOPPY! I have a high cable connection... getting 20 - 50 ping on dedicated servers... the 
 game still lags... everyones warping... dieing without knowing whats going on... unloading 3 full 
 clips into people without them dieing... punching them 4 times in the back doing no good... its horrible... not 
 much work was put into this... more like a copy and paste from xbox than a little networking and 
 boom put on the shelf... stuck at 30 frames per second... and all they can say is "we had to do it 
 that way because of the animations" they could have redone the animations... that shows a serious 
 lack of inspiration... I love the xbox version... so far.. im disliking the PC version more than I 
 anticipated... well done on destroying this game bungie! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
