-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hammer & Sickle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/hammersickle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting premise.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You'll grow old waiting for the computer to finish its moves.
 Half-baked storyline that never properly explains anything.
 Gangs of enemies make combat tedious and ridiculously hard.
 Loaded with typos and bizarre accents.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  9, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 5.7, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 272 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Novik & Co
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Dec 5, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The KGB wasn't as hard on political dissidents as Hammer & Sickle is on those who play it. 

 
  With an acclaimed codeveloper like Nival Interactive and an intriguing premise set during the 
 dawn of the Cold War in the 1940s, you wouldn't think that Novik &amp; Co.'s Hammer &amp; Sickle 
 could lose. Nival certainly knows this territory, with the excellent squad-based WWII sim Silent 
 Storm on its list of recent credits. And who could resist such an interesting, unexplored setting? 
 It's easy to see why so many squad-combat fans were eagerly awaiting this game's arrival in stores. 
 Unfortunately, it has proven to be a bit of a miscalculation. Somewhere between conception and 
 execution Hammer &amp; Sickle went offtrack. Way offtrack. All of the great promise inspired by 
 both Nival's involvement and this innovative setting has been wasted in a game that is inept on 
 every level. Story, interface, difficulty, graphics, voice acting, music, and just about everything 
 else, seem to have been slapped together at the last minute and rushed out with no attention to 
 quality control.  

          Grueling, combat-heavy missions against impossible odds are par for the course from the 
 moment you cross over into West Germany.     

  Even the promising setting has been ruined. You play a Soviet spy snooping around West Germany 
 just as the Cold War really starts to get going. The year is 1949, so say hello to Checkpoint Charlie, 
 loads of international espionage, and escalating tension between the US and the USSR. But the plot 
 veers away from historical reality after setting the stage, with the introduction of a mysterious 
 third party of suspiciously Nazi-like thugs bent on drawing both nations into a nuclear holocaust. 
 So the tale turns from gritty Cold War thriller into a James Bond-style saga, which is a little 
 clichd and disappointing.  

  Even more distressing is the awful way that this superspy story is told. Nothing is set up properly, 
 so you're always left wondering what's going on and where you're supposed to go next. Dialogue 
 is spit out in such a random fashion that it seems like somebody cut every third line for brevity 
 just before shipping the game. It begins with the very first mission, where you're told to contact 
 Vaclav, deliver a proposal, and kill the guy if he doesn't like what he hearswithout the benefit 
 of a preamble explaining who you are, where you are, who Vaclav is, what this proposal is all about, 
 and so on. Mission assignments rarely come with proper instructions, so the game is often incoherent. 
 Also, the story branches at points that are almost totally imperceptible to the player. Kill the 
 wrong people at the wrong time (mainly Allied soldiers and civilians) , and you can unknowingly 
 set up an unstoppable slide to the start of World War III that will prematurely end your game. 

          Nor will it be the last, comrade.     

  The actual gameplay does its fair share to wreck Hammer &amp; Sickle as well. Although the game 
 is being billed as an RPG, this is really just a revamped Silent Storm (Novik &amp; Co. apparently 
 got started on this project by making a mod for that game) with more of a story and shops where 
 you can buy and sell items. Just as in the earlier, much better game, you also (eventually) control 
 a group of soldiers with varied abilities, pick skill advancements as they go up in level, and 
 so forth. The only major difference is that you custom design a soldier at the beginning or you 
 choose between soldier, sniper, grenadier, engineer, surgeon, and scout classes. Anyone looking 
 for actual role-playing would be advised to look elsewhere, because this is really a fairly typical 
 squad-based tactical shooter.  

  Action plays out in the same turn-based manner as Silent Storm, too, but with a couple of key changes 
 that kill what that game had going for it. Combat is noticeably slower here. Enemy and Allied turns 
 take forever to be resolved whenever there are more than three or four of each shooting it out. 
 Maps are very small. Many assignments play out in tiny areas that can be crossed in seconds. So 
 instead of tackling sprawling bases crammed with patrolling soldiers, you typically have to get 
 past only a guard post or two or gun down a crowd of goons before moving on to the next assignment. 
 This scales down the tactical challenge and turns most missions into races to the finish line or 
 tedious gun battles.     

  But this doesn't mean that Hammer &amp; Sickle is easy. This game is actually spectacularly, insanely 
 hard even on the easy difficulty setting. Guards can annihilate your boys with single bursts of 
 automatic weapon fire and effortlessly hit from long range. Even single rifle rounds can kill or 
 result in immediate, temporary blindness that ends your Cold War adventure just as effectively 
 as a stopped pulse. And there are packs of enemy soldiers to kill in almost every level. The second 
 (second!) mission forces you to kill an entire firing squad single-handedly and then deal with 
 10 more attacking enemy soldiers. There is a ridiculous amount of trial and error, as you often 
 need to be perfect to escape with your skin. And many missions are flat-out impossible to beat 
 unless you go through them once to see where enemy reinforcements show up on the map.  

          It may be cowardly, but you can only survive most missions by running away and sniping 
 back at the gang of bad guys always in pursuit.     

  Sneaking isn't the answer, either, as it just isn't an option most of the time. Also, if you get 
 spotted while attempting to crawl past a guard, you're an instant corpse. Enemies have also been 
 granted the hearing ability of dogs and the eyesight of owls, as they can target a hiding, crawling 
 soldier amid a copse of trees in the dark of night, especially in the early stages of the game 
 before you start buffing skills.  

  The clunky interface doesn't help matters, as you need to press three or four buttons just to go 
 from a crouch to a good firing position with a weapon in hand. It makes more sense to skip the 
 sneaking whenever possible and hit patrols head on (at least after you gain a few allies and acquire 
 an automatic weapon or three) , because at least then you have a fighting chance to win a battle 
 once the guns start going off.  

  Presentation values could use a lot of work, too. While the game has been built atop the good-looking 
 Silent Storm engine, load times are long and animations are stuttery. Units come to abrupt halts 
 and generally move in a stiff and artificial fashion. Most of the scenery is well done, with extra 
 details like fires roaring in ovens and assortments of junk scattered on tables, but the edges 
 of each map end in a bright blue wall that is very jarring.  

          This may not be a WWII game, exactly, though your black-uniformed enemies sure look like 
 Nazis.     

  Audio is simply bizarre. Dialogue is poorly recited, with obtrusive, diverse accents reminiscent 
 of  Monty Python  skits popping up all over the place. The lead has a habit of repeating catchphrases 
 like "Don't be afraid of the barking dog, be afraid of the silent dog!" over and over again like 
 they were world-class bon mots. And the soundtrack seems to have been dropped in from another game 
 entirely, or maybe a bunch of different games. The menus feature 1960s-era lounge music more appropriate 
 to a Leisure Suit Larry adventure than a Cold War spyfest, and mission tunes veer abruptly from 
 orchestral numbers to shrill, Euro-style heavy metal during combat. So one moment you're grooving 
 to Perry Como, the next you're shredding with Yngwie Malmsteen.  

  If Hammer &amp; Sickle were the first effort of a fledgling developer working alone then you could 
 be optimistic about the future of the company. After all, the turn-based engine is reasonably well 
 done, if sluggish, and Novik &amp; Co. had some great ideas here. But since this game was codeveloped 
 by Nival, you instead have to wonder how a veteran developer like this, with a dozen games to its 
 credit (including some very good ones) , could ever have let a mess like this out the door.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Silent Storm came quietly in 2004 and stormed the gaming world like a hurricane. Well, of course 
 it did. It was the first turn-based tactical game after Jagged Alliance 2 that was actually worth 
 something. Despite it's many weaknesses, it had a superb physics engine capable of delivering hours 
 and hours of cool-looking combat. I cried tears of joy when I first threw a grenade through a glass 
 window and watched it explode with thousands of shrapnels, sending men and pieces of broken glass 
 and shattered wood through the air in the most spectacular John Woo - style blastoff you've ever 
 seen. Or when I shot an enemy through the wooden floor of the house without even seeing him. My 
 character simply heard a footsteps above him and shot a burst of fire from his MP-40, ripping the 
 wooden boards apart and leaving his enemy in a pool of blood. Yes, it was THAT good. 
  
  But Silent Storm also had an extremely stupid story, horrible voice acting, idiotic missions system 
 and an annoying system of hints you had to collect to finish a mission. It was also insanely difficult 
 and you could've grown a beard while waiting for your enemies and brain-dead allies to finish their 
 turns. All in all, I never finished Silent Storm. I never liked it much either, despite some cool 
 features it provided. But I sure as heck finished Hammer and Sickle.
  
  In this third installment of Silent Storm universe you play as a Russian commando, a veteran of 
 the Great Patriotic War sent to the other side of an Iron Curtain to investigate certain suspicious 
 activities. You start alone, with some cash and guns, and it's up to you to figure out how to get 
 more allies and resources. You explore new areas as the story progresses, and this time you finally 
 know what you're doing and why. Unlike Silent Storm. Voice acting is still horrible, but now the 
 characters finally have some personality. You'll even grow fond of them until the end. The whole 
 world now reacts to you and your actions, and there are a lot of ways you can achieve your objectives. 
 You walk around towns, talk to people, earn money, even disguise yourself so the American patrols 
 wouldn't recognize you as a Russian who's up to no good in Western Germany. You can't simply waltz 
 into town all guns blazing, because the police will bust you if they see you're armed. At some 
 point of the game, you'll have to forge your papers to get past a checkpoint. But maybe you don't 
 have the money to pay for that. Now what? How about getting some British uniforms? Or avoiding 
 the guards? Or simply start shooting? A lot of ways to catch a rabbit, my friends... 
  
  And that's why I love this game. It took the best from the original Silent Storm game and implemented 
 it all into a new, living and breathing world with a decent story. It's not perfect, mind you. 
 You still have to wait until you go crazy for your enemies to finish their turns, and some technical 
 glitches make this game less enjoyable. Combat is still extremely difficult, but this time at least 
 you can customize the game's difficulty any way you prefer. There still are some annoying chapters, 
 mostly because you're always facing an insane number of enemies. I mean, COME ON! I know the bad 
 guys are bad, but I find it hard to believe that a super-secret evil organization can simply send 
 three dozens of trench coat-wearing, Nazi-looking commandos armed to the teeth on a manhunt at 
 any possible location of Allied-controlled towns and villages without ever raising suspicion. Sure, 
 you have to think hard and plan your strategy in order to prevail against such odds. But most of 
 the successful hits you can accomplish by pure luck, rather than careful calculation. Many times 
 a perfect tactic may not be enough if an enemy gets a lucky shot. Or your character misses for 
 no particular reason, despite the fact that he had a nearly perfect shot. But then again, such 
 was the original Silent Storm as well. Jagged Alliance 2 was a lot better at that, calculating 
 every aspect of a gunshot. If you saved your game before your turn and performed an action that 
 wasn't successful, you could load your game again a thousands of times, you'd always get the same 
 result. The game simply calculates all of the parameters, and until you change your tactics the 
 result would always be the same. But not in Hammer and Sickle. Here, you can simply save your game 
 and try the same thing over and over again until you get the right result. Tactical brilliance? 
 Nuts! Pure luck. 
  
  As for the graphics and sound, it's exactly the same as the original Silent Storm. No point describing 
 it. Just read the Silent Storm review. All in all, this is an extremely underrated game. Victim 
 of prejudice and bad reviews. Sure, the first impression is kind of bad, but after an hour or so, 
 when you learn the basics, this game will suck you in so hard you won't leave it easily. 
  
  This is, all in all, the best game in Silent Storm universe. It's really easy to recommend, 
 despite some shortcomings that have plagued this series since day one. Besides, this is the only 
 turn-based tactical game since Jagged Alliance 2 that's truly worth the time and money. Play it 
 and love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruist22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Upon reading other reviews, I was first disheartened and suspicious about what Hammer & Sickle 
 had to offer. But after reading a little more about the open ended story line, I have decided to 
 give it a shot. 
  
  I am very pleased with the story, difficulty level and the immerse detailed world of Cold War Germany. 
 If you are tired of same old RPG quests with repetitive monster slays and courier missions, or 
 click fest hack and slack games, I suggest you give this game a try. 
  
  It will remind of you the Commandos. If you can get past the first couple of tough missions, the 
 following lengthy game play will be rewarding. 
  
  You can create your character with a number of different careers to choose, from engineer to surgeon 
 and from, spies to snipers. Facial and racial features are also selectable. 
  
  During the course of the game, many interesting NPC's can join your cause and they have some minor 
 interactions during the cut scenes. 
  
  The game provides you with a number of interactive environments and anything you choose with your 
 actions or conversation lines, will have an impact on the rest of the game and your end game experience 
 will depend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukaszsw
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Having played both Silent Storm and Silent Storm: Sentinels and I absolutely loved it, but Hammer 
 and Sickle seem dull in comparison
  
  I like how there are more conversation and branches but ultimately the game doesn't give me a reason 
 to care. Conversations are long and boring, as are the dialogues where you can choose the answer. 
 
  
  You are given a lot to explore but only a few people can talk (there was a mod of Fallout tactics 
 where they tried to implement dialogues as well and same as here it could be noticed) . Only what 
 is the reason for exploration? To advance in the plot or to seek new weapons and power for me. 
 In Hammer and Sickle the plot doesn't give you much hints of what to do and it seems you have nowhere 
 to go and as for weapons they are so realistic that it really doesn't matter what you are using.
 
  
  NPC appear more often then Silent Storm but its not like you can talk to anybody, most of the people 
 are quiet and cannot be interacted with.
  
  There is a new system of how much a person can carry. That's ok, but than why my inventory still 
 is divided into boxes? it doesn't allow you to carry many big pillows as it should. But the real 
 problem is that carrying one submachinegun might be much already for a character - that a little 
 weird, isn't it?
  
  The graphics look as they did in Silent Storm and it is perfect for an rpg game with top-down perspective. 
 Maps are still a small areas floating in space but a really annoying part is changing the background 
 from black to blue!? the same blue you get on blue screen - what is that supposed to improve, why 
 a change at all. It produces a really freakish effect as all other color seem more pale. 
  
  Also the AI hardly works. I remember it playing fairly well in Silent Storm but in Hammer and 
 Sickle I can have a whole army unit looking for me stuck on other side of the wall, ridiculous. 
 Not much fun in a shootout anyway, one bullet you take and you will probably bleed to death (I 
 understand realism but enough is enough) . Also now you can get arrested if you carry gun which 
 is not concealable but then small submachineguns should be allowed to vbe hidden but they are not 
 as Silent Storm engine didn't have it.
  So the police chase all around a 100m2 city because they immediately see a gun in your hand. Otherwise 
 you are free to run around prison and nobody will stop you in US officer uniform. But when you 
 choose to strangle the prison warden, then they now straight away (what the point of writing "silently 
 strangle" ?) . So the interactions are very limited, people either love you or hate you
  There is a nice concept that different clothing have different attributes (like camo uniform will 
 be better for the forest)
  
  The music is atrocious and this was discussed over and over. It takes you 10 minutes in the game 
 to feel it. The voice acting was always poor in these Russian games, although it was one of a few 
 weak points of original Silent Storm. In Hammer and Sickle the are even worse, without any sense, 
 repeating itself over and over and horribly acted. 
  
  To sum up - the engine was tweaked with some interesting additions but at the same time they managed 
 to ruin much of it. On top of it we get a horrible sound, extremely disorientating environment 
 and uber realism makes the game unfriendly and scares away new gamers. Try Silent Storm instead, 
 or a more friendly Silent Strom Sentinel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russosteve
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I've wanted to play this game for a while, based solely on the box/concept. So I waited until I 
 saw it for $4.99 and bought it.
  To start with I like the character generation system, the idea (modern combat rpg) and it looks 
 fairly nice.
  But it is the SLOWEST game ever. I really reminds me of OLD school Ultima (like Ultima 3 or 4) 
 with the movement system. The turn based combat is nice in that it gives to time to think but the 
 enemy turn (and ally turn) takes way too long.
  It's also fairly hard, but I like that. Get shot? You're slower, less accurate and bleeding. Happens 
 again? You're dead. Game over. That's somewhat refreshing from most games where you can be shot 
 a million times and still run....
  
  So it's ok, but slow. Bring a book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoogieManFL
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  Hammer &amp; Sickle is in itself a game worth buying if you liked Fallout Tactics, Jagged Alliance, 
 or Silent Storm, you'll probably enjoy it.
  
  This is the first review I've ever written, but I felt compelled to seeing the unfair reviews it's 
 gotten. Low marks where there was no reason to be low. The Graphics: They are pretty good, more 
 than sufficient for this type of game. And the character models are good, and animations excellent. 
 You can actually tell what type of gun your enemy is holding, by not only it's appearance but by 
 it's sound. You can also see grenades your people have, knives, ammo clips and the like. The environment 
 is destructable. You can can actually level entire buildings if you have the ammo. In fact, a smart 
 player can use this to their advantage, giving them essential gun ports to shoot from. You can 
 bash down doors, blow them apart, or toss a grenade and watch the bricks (and bodies) fly. Ragdoll 
 style bodies are great.
  
  The Sound:
  
  The sound effects are top notch. And the music is great. Especially the combat music. From gun 
 shots, to screams of pain. This is actually one of the things I like most about this game. The 
 voice acting is decent, and it does help to add personality to the characters.
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  The AI is pretty decent. And as for difficulty, yes, it is hard. But it is 
 also extremely customizable. Out of the many hundreds of games I've ever played, no game has nearly 
 the ability to customize the difficulty, and even gameplay to some extent. You can alter with a 
 percentage slider: Enemy HP, Damage, Action Points (how much they can do per combat round) how 
 often they try to use stealth, gun durability, the time at with time progresses, and even their 
 level, an offset of the player's level. As well as how serious injuries to your squad are and to 
 what extent bandaging vs. time it takes to heal. It is not overly hard once you customize it to 
 your tastes. And you actually have to make good use cover, tactics, and grenades. Because unlike 
 James Bond, you're not up against enemies who can't shoot you with automatic weapons from 30ft 
 away. It's more realistic. Your enemies are soldiers who know what they are doing, and it's just 
 after World War II, so odds are many of them are veterans of real combat. It actually works out 
 very well. A well balanced team is very useful to easing combat. You'll want a sniper or two, a 
 grenadier, point man (armor and assault rifles/machine gun) as well as a Medic, etc. I especially 
 like how if you are careful you can sometimes do a good amount of preperation before taking your 
 first shot. From laying mines where you will lure them, to placing your snipers at a great place 
 for taking those sweet shots. You can really slaughter even large numbers of enemies with relative 
 ease when you plan out your attack - just as you'd have to given the number odds. This is truly 
 one of the most fun aspects of this game. Tactics really make a huge difference.
  
  Value:
  
  The game is great fun, but sadly it is a bit short and there isn't significant replayability. 
 You might be able to get 2 or 3 runs through before you've seen and done it all. Which is still 
 decent, but could be worse. So much potential. It's a shame it's an under rated game.
  
  I suspect most of the negative reviews are products of venting frustration after not spending enough 
 time to learn the game. So all in all if you like this style of game and a challenge you will probably 
 like it. Don't let the bad reviews turn you away. Look at their time played to date. Nuff' said. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy667
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game had potential. Post world war II, not being americans, and its wasted. The graphics are 
 horridly out of date. The combat is alright, minus the fact that whenever i play it, heads keep 
 exploding (literally) . I shoot a man in the head with a dart gun and his head EXPLODES. Its too 
 hard as well. I put the setting down as low as possible, but it doesnt tell your objectives, and 
 the enemies always have upper hand, unless you go in with big guns, which always causes a mess. 
 It is fun to start WWIII however, but that part is very short and happens whever you go guns blazing. 
 and the voices are ATROCIOUS. guns are the only good sound. overall, bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I can understand why the Gamespot reviewer gave this game a not so hot rating. In the relatively 
 short time these guys have to get their review out, I don' t think they can fully appreciate a 
 game like this. I should first note that this game is not for everyone, because not all of us have 
 the patience for extremely challenging games. H&S is essentially misunderstood by most, even Silent 
 Storm fans, because this game relies less on combat. In fact, a primary goal of the game is avoiding 
 combat if at all possibly. Your team is essentially a bunch of spies made up of soldiers leftover 
 from WWII. By the way, this game, in many respects, is a sequel to Silent Storm and Sentinels - 
 there are a lot of references to those games. However, H&S is set at the start of the Cold War. 
 Your team has to stealthily work it's way through European countryside, towns, cities, prisons, 
 and secret locations to achieve objectives that are not clearly spelled out in the beginning. In 
 fact. part of the gameplay is figuring out what the heck your objectives are. There is plenty of 
 combat, but you want to avoid as much as possible. Your actions effect the game and ending tremendously. 
 There are multiple endings, but only one with a successful result. i think this adds a lot of replay 
 value to the game. 
  
  Although, Hammer is basically a squad-based/turned-based strategy there is a strong RPG element 
 to the game. Your team builds skills over time, acquires weapons and inventory via scrounging and 
 money. there's even different uniforms you find that help you in certain situations and environments.
 
  
  Like Silent Storm, the game is very taxing on the computer so you need a lot of juice or tweak 
 the graphic settings. Some say there are bugs, but I didn't find to many that were bothersome. 
 The dialog can sometimes be a little confusing, which i think turned off some, but remember it's 
 a Russian developer and focus, so you just have to kinda change your thinking and expectations 
 a little.
  
  Well, in closing, I really enjoyed this game and the challenge. If you like this sort of game and 
 Silent Storm, you should like this game but it requires some patience. It's one of the most difficult 
 games I"ve ever played. I don't really think there's a game quite like this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tziganu_36
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  I had great expectations from this title, I must admit, so I start looking for the classical team 
 building and character development. It turns out that things are a bit different. 
  First of all, you can take several roads to victory, dictated by the ethical choices you make at 
 some points. You can also take a short road to hell if you choose to kill everyone around - you're 
 a spy after all, not Rambo.
  Your party can be rather large but i managed to finish the game all alone. Some characters have 
 some nice lines if they are with you in some mission, but that's all, you can finish the game ALONE.
 
  
  So, long story short... a very complex scenario allowing many ways to play - and win - the game. 
 Some ramifications are triggered by insignificant - but sensible - events, so be careful.
  The gameplay is classic Silent Storm.
  Way too short! This is my main complain. 
  
  Look 
 for walkthroughs in the Internet, and you start to appreciate the intricate storyline. Again way 
 too short.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitor_76
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  I started the game i i found myself in the second mission against 5 guys and i was alone, hehehe 
 .P : ( and throw 2 granades and i got killed in the end, so i was frustrated at the extreme dificulty 
 for the easy settings. i found some graphics and sound bugs, to mention the change from the standart 
 black screen ending of the turned base end of the map to blue very bugys and stupid ending, should 
 be fixed as sooon as possible and some repeating phrases from the chars. but i played silent storm 
 and silent storm sentinels and im addicted to strategy and to turn-base games- ufo is nice to i 
 mean ufo aftershock very inetresting indeed, so i advise ppl to chose the option to make the change 
 in game in campain to costum dificulty and adjust to be not so hard but as i did challenging, i 
 put in a dificulty level of 1.115 and started agian. To add game presentes 2 diferent ways to complete 
 the game and i followed one to chain of events and i want to try the second in a more difficult 
 one. In conclusion if u do this change game will be more rewarding and accessible and of course 
 easy . i like to add u have the plot of the game go to the site of the game and thres a walktrough 
 and more stuff u will find the game very rewarding :)
  Need Improvement in next continuatiuon lot of work to be improved i realy like the series and hope 
 for it but i recomend it to fans...
  
  Ps. Pardon for my english but im portuguese and i wrote to the best of my abilities :)
  
  What 
 the hell is reviers tilt btw ???
  
  Firebird 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 2.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  This game is hust plain Bad. The graphics are from the early 2000's the gameplay is weak and boring. 
 There isnt a good storyline and thehit next to continue speaking is annoying as hell. There 
 is no point to this Chess game with different boards. This was a major disastor and a waste of 
 time to play. Every time you have to end a turn. The camera angles are the worst and the game just 
 can't be good. There is no way on earth that this game was going to be good.
  
  I have to say this could be one of the worst PC games that I have played. Save yourself the money 
 and disapointment and DO NOT i repeat DO NOT pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zubrenok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  The main plus of the game is the dialogue and character development, and I gathered from the review 
 that the English translation wasn't too good. It's a shame, because the Russian version was great. 
 I really enjoyed this game and honestly, the characters and their dialogue were done so well that 
 I actually got attached to them and was sorry the game ended. However, I realize that the English 
 version could be very clumsily translated - an unfortunate habit of Russian game companies. So 
 in effect, my review numbers are for the Russian version - although I do believe that GameSpot 
 was a little too harsh on the game (compare it to ratings on other English sites) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Hammer & Sickle is a mess. A mess and a disaster. So much so that I really don't know where to 
 begin. Actually -- yes I do.
  
  As soon as the titles came up with that appallingly out of place music, I had a sinking feeling 
 that this game was going to be a disappointment. But I still gave it a shot.
  
  The game is damned difficult. Perhaps it wouldn't be so if you actually knew what you were supposed 
 to be doing from one moment to the next, but you really don't. The plot is so thin that it simply 
 cannot hold up the gameplay. The game drops you into the deep end almost immediately, which is 
 fine for those who have played these kinds of games before. I've watched people play Silent Storm, 
 but hadn't played it much myself. But the few minutes I did play it were heaven compared to this.
 
  
  I found myself replaying levels over and over again, just to get things right and move on. It would 
 have helped to know precisely what was supposed to be happening. Still, once you play through the 
 level, you'll know what is coming. Some games (I'm thinking Splinter Cell) can justify sending 
 you back to replay a level. Not this one. By the time you figure out what you need to do on a level, 
 the love is gone. At least Splinter Cell made you feel triumphant that you made it through the 
 level. With this game I was so frustrated by the time I made it through that I actually had to 
 turn the game off for a bit before I was ready to go back.
  
  The voice acting is attrocious, and the dialogue repetitive and irritating. The music is inappropriate 
 most of the time, and uniformly bad. The graphics would have been considered mediocre several years 
 ago, perhaps.
  
  The gameplay has potential. I knew people who loved Silent Storm, and the whole concept of turn 
 based squad games like this. I often like a laid-back style of game as an alternative to the fast-paced 
 FPS games. But this game was incredibly tedious. And with an extremely thin, badly paced plot, 
 irritating repetitiveness and horrible production values, this game rates an "avoid at all cost." 
 Especially for you Silent Storm fans. Do not play it. It will forever ruin your memories of a classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isotop
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  it starts out as nice interesting in which u can upgrade your characters and buy them new weapons 
 , then when u think u can go back to town to buy stuff for players u actually cant because its 
 not part of the story line so the entire money concept in the game is wasted.
  another very disappointing thing about the game is that it only contains about 5 levels so u dont 
 have alot to enjoy from and all of the time planned in advancing your characters go to waste because 
 u hardly get to benefit from those improvments simply because the game ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AraxTheBold
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Some of you may remember the turn based combat in the old Gold Box D&D games, or the Action point's 
 and modern weapons of a game called Fallout, or even better the Squad based combat of Fallout: 
 Tactics. 
  
  Hammer & Sickle as well as its predecessor in the Silent Storm series adds even more to this type 
 of game play. Destructible environments, beautiful graphics that scale to your system req's and 
 challenging strategic combat. Add in a Cold War atomic threat and youre in for a hell of a ride.
 
  
  With multiple branching story lines depending on your actions you never feel like your being held 
 by the hand. Granted it can be confusing at times as to where to go next and im sure an official 
 review will mention that. It also may seem rather short if you choice to be a bit too gun happy 
 in your encounters. But so what, you can just play again and make some different choices and you 
 find yourself in a whole new game. 
  
  I recomend playing this game on normal difficulty, but change the save feature to "save anytime" 
 under the custom campaign options. You will need it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
