-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hard Truck: Apocalypse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/apocalypticwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exploring a postapocalyptic wasteland is somewhat interesting for the first hour or so.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mundane missions mostly involve aimlessly creeping across an empty, uninteresting map.
 Combat controls are awkward and the artificial intelligence is severely lacking.
 Terrible voice acting.
 Upgrading your truck is more work than it's worth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 4.7, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Buka Entertainment
Genre: Car Combat
Date:     Jun 26, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hard Truck: Apocalypse takes an interesting premise and strips away all but the most mundane elements, 
 leaving you to drive down a long and unexciting road to nowhere. 

  Hard Truck: Apocalypse proves that a fantastic name can only take a game so far, and without compelling 
 content a game just isn't worth playing. It's an appealing concept: a role-playing game set in 
 a postapocalyptic future where you have to drive heavily armored (and armed) trucks across a vast 
 wasteland, delivering supplies, scavenging loot, and blasting gangs of bandits off the road. In 
 execution though, Hard Truck: Apocalypse is about as exciting as counting the grains of sand in 
 a postapocalyptic desert.  

          For a postapocalyptic wasteland this place sure has a lot of trees.     

  The game 
 opens with a brief explanation of a cataclysmic event that led to the poisoning of the air, which 
 killed off most of the planet's inhabitants. The prologue is by far the most interesting part of 
 the story in the entire game, and it quickly degrades after the opening cinematic. You play the 
 game as a young driver who just celebrated a birthday and is now officially a man. As such, you 
 get a pep talk from your father, the keys to the family delivery truck, and your first mission 
 to deliver some supplies to a nearby town. You head on down the road to get accustomed to life 
 behind the wheel, and after a few scrapes with some local outlaws and some chance encounters with 
 some mysterious characters, the adventure begins.  

  The gameplay in Hard Truck consists of driving from town to town across a large map and talking 
 to people to accept missions and to get paid. The missions are mostly simplistic delivery tasks, 
 escort missions, or extermination runs. Sometimes you'll have to deliver supplies to a distant 
 town, blow up as many enemies as possible, or just travel from one town to the next and talk to 
 the right person. There are a few mysteries to investigate and solve, but the majority of the missions 
 are exceedingly dull.  

  There is no experience system in the game, so instead of leveling up your character, you simply 
 get money that you can use to buy new and better parts for your truck. You can purchase new guns, 
 new cargo boxes capable of holding more loot, more heavily armored cabs, or entirely new trucks. 
 However, the upgrade system feels limited because there are only five different truck types, and 
 they're all fairly similar save for slightly different stats for speed, armor, and fuel capacity. 
 Most of the items are expensive too, so you'll have to complete dozens of dull missions before 
 you can pick up that machine gun you've had your eye on.  

  You start off with a basic truck that isn't especially intimidating, but is certainly capable of 
 getting from one point to another and blowing up a few enemies here and there. As you explore the 
 vast, empty world you'll run into small packs of outlaws who will drive up to you and start shooting. 
 The battles consist of driving around in circles using the WASD keys, and aiming your turret weapon 
 with the mouse. Since the camera follows the turret, you'll just have to hope that you aren't driving 
 off a cliff or into a tree as you're shooting your enemies. Of course, you can just stop and shoot, 
 but you'll make yourself an easy target, and you'll miss out on all of the underwhelming action 
 of vehicular combat.  

  Some of the enemies in the game are pretty tough, but only in the sense that they can take a lot 
 of damage. The poison has apparently corroded the intelligence of people in this world, because 
 you'll often see enemies run into trees and get stuck because they apparently don't know how to 
 back up. Other times you'll get to see enemies drive right off of cliffs. It's not just the enemies 
 that are stupid, as the allies are extremely dim as well. In some missions you'll have to escort 
 allies from one town to another, and you can watch them drive right through fences, into trees, 
 or just stop and wait while enemies open fire on them.  

  When you kill your enemies they'll usually drop some cargo, which you can pick up and use, or sell 
 for more money. The money is important not only because it's required to upgrade your truck, but 
 also because you'll often need to fork out a lot of cash for repairs and fuel for your rig. Fortunately 
 there are enough gas stations and towns throughout the world that fuel and repairs are easy to 
 come by, as long as you have enough money.  

  The world of Hard Truck: Apocalypse is actually fairly nice for being a supposed wasteland and 
 all. There are green fields, smatterings of trees, large rivers, and quaint little farms. There 
 are some areas that do look more appropriately barren, such as vacant, crumbling cities that you 
 can check out. For the most part, though, the world is just a huge empty space that doesn't do 
 much to encourage exploration. It doesn't help that your truck moves slowly, and with natural barriers 
 like mountains and rivers to impede your progress, you'll often have to take lengthy detours to 
 get where you want to go. Most of the towns look the same, and you don't even get to actually explore 
 them because while you're in a town all of your interactions take place on menu screens.  

          With its simplistic mission design this game would be better named, Delivery Boy: Apocalypse. 
     

  The sound in Hard Truck is acceptable except for the voice acting. The conversations all sound 
 awkward and unnatural, and there's not a single bit of enthusiasm or emotional inflection in any 
 of the spoken dialogue. Even worse are the inane phrases that your driver will utter when enemies 
 approach, like such catchy one-liners as, "The roof is on fire!" The music is actually decent, 
 although it's still not good enough to make the experience of crawling across the country in a 
 beat-up truck any more interesting.  

  Hard Truck: Apocalypse is a lifeless and boring game that lacks any sort of depth or excitement. 
 If you're expecting an action-packed,  Road Warrior -esque romp through a lawless desert wasteland, 
 you won't find it here. Instead, you'll find yourself taking a trip down a long road that will 
 have you asleep at the wheel.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Com_Psyche
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  When i read my first reviews about this game, i didn't know whether to bother and try it. But i 
 guess i was out of stuff to play so i took a leap of faith.
  I finished this game less than 10 minutes ago, so the memory is still fresh.
  
  If you liked 
 Carmageddon and half-life: cs, you will like this game.... maybe add a dash of Diablo 2 to the mix 
 too.
  The storyline is just a whole bunch of cliches, thrown together like in a Tarantino movie (actually 
 reminded me of Grindhouse...) , and it is as much fun as you think.... yeah, sure, it's damn repetitive, 
 and yes, there isn't much to it... and there were a couple of missions where you had to drive like 
 50 km.... but it only left me with a good impression. You get to shoot at enemies, upgrade your 
 truck, sell or haul stuff (yes, you can buy stuff from one city and deliver it to another, but 
 you better have a machine gun handy, cause there are some people that might want it) .... dunno why 
 but a lot of games lately gave me a feeling that i actually had to work hard... this is just what 
 a game is all about... YOU GET TO HAVE FUN....
  It's an easy game that just makes you want to buy the add-on... i know i will.... cause that one's 
 got multiplayer :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbandu
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The last car combat game I played on the PC was Bandits: Phoenix Rising, which was mediocre 
 ( mainly because it lacked a mid-mission save function) . With Auto Assault fast going down the 
 tubes (it gets the plug pulled at the end of August 2007) the genre is in trouble. Hard Truck 
 Apocalypse, for only $20, seemed like it was worth investigating.
  
  I played the game for a short time and then removed it from my hard drive. The concept is an interesting 
 one, Mad Max of the Steppes, but the execution is poor. Maneuvering your truck with the WASD 
 key setup is just too clumsy, especially when in combat, and I suffered a lot of noncombat damage 
 from running into various obstacles. The main problem is the games spawning of enemy vehicles 
 on just about every road segment. It guarantees that sooner, rather than later, your own truck, 
 depleted of weapons and armor and in perilous condition, meets them and gets blown up. Opportunities 
 to avoid combat are too few, so you are faced with either (1) repeating combat many times until 
 by luck or skill you manage to survive (very rare) ; or (2) find an earlier save point, reload it, 
 and try and avoid the combat situation in the first place.
  
  There are more powerful guns, armor, and vehicles available if you are willing to spend quite a 
 bit of time wandering in a sort of ultra state of wariness around the initial maps, ekeing out 
 enough cash until you can purchase the needed upgrades. But I just dont have time to devote to 
 that sort of grinding, particularly when the quest design revolves around repetitious fetch-and- 
 deliver forays Graphics are rather bland, but I wasnt expecting anything current-gen from the 
 game. They are passable enough, as if the background music and voice acting. I get the impression 
 that the single-player portion of the game is more or less an extended tutorial for the multiplayer 
 gameplay, but I didnt examine the multiplayer. Maybe it justifies the game, I dont know. There 
 is a germ of a good idea here, but it needs quite a bit more fleshing out to succeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvinnitsky
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  The feel of the game is pretty cool and it is a somewhat unique concept as there are almost no 
 other car combat games out there for PC (never mind with trucks and set in the post-apocaliptic 
 settings) Graphics are pretty nice. Music is extremely cool and unique.
  
  The problem with this game is maybe it is a bit too long and some quests later on are very tedious. 
 It doesn't help that the story is not very interesting and the voice acting and the script are 
 very bad. The gameplay is easy and fun, but it becomes repetitive sooner or later, especially when 
 you have to go back and forth.
  
  Yes, you will get bored of it about 2/3 into the game, but you will have fun for at least 15 hours 
 with this unique budget game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sayun
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The idea to have a world where you can drive around freely with a vehicle you've bought and tuned 
 yourself, and trade or eliminate competition is a great one.
  However, the lack of content and the slow feeling this game has makes it fall short from the potential 
 it has (or had, more accurately) .
  
  While driving around and shooting things is an obviously fun way to spend time, it grows old fast 
 without variation.
  And this game doesn't have that much variation.
  
  To be fair, the game does sort of grow on you, and it's not all bad.
  Some of the potential it 
 has, or had, shines through from time to time, but it's not enough to make you keep playing it.
 
  
  I wouldn't mind another (better) Hard Truck game.
  
  This is just me, but if you want an open world in which you have freedom to do what you want, play 
 X3: Reunion instead. It's a space sim, but has the same concept and executes it a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually much more fun to play than what review would have you believe. The urge to 
 get better equipment and truck upgrades would keep you playing for hours. Stunning visuals and 
 fluid performance on mid-range system doesnt distract much fun either. Sound, however, is mostly 
 aweful. Bad voiceacting, unrealistic engine noise and generic sound effects are rather poor.
  
  However, this game could be improved a lot. First by having somesort of more involving upgrade 
 possibilities.. kinda like what mechwarrior series offered. Things like bolt-on armor and weapon 
 mounts, rollbars, crashbars etc rather than fixed pre-made upgrades would make it more fun.
  
  All in all, this is a great game! If you are a car freak, and enjoy slow-building but rewarding 
 rpg games rather than quick arcade, then this is for you! Its like Darkstar One or IW2: Edge of 
 Chaos but on road instead in space.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvramon
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  i like postapocalyptic game in this genre and when i first saw this game i thought that it would 
 have been a very good game. But the game got rushed and it didnt live up to my hopes. First off 
 the gameplay is alright, nothing to but proud of but get the job done. The graphics are alright 
 to good for some textures, the cars are really well made with nice damage effects but thats all 
 the environment is dull and the speed of the truck does not help. The dialogue are bad and voice 
 acting is awful, the engine sound and sound of weapon are alright. this game is for fan of this 
 genre of game i like it and dont regret having bought it but that should not been the case for 
 everyone so wait and buy it used or bargain bin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  First impressions is that Hard Truck has some rpg elements such as the random weapons you can find 
 such as Deadly Machine Gun or Deadly Assault Machine Gun Water Cooled, such extra titles obviously 
 add extra modifications to the weapon, sometimes better and most often you find vendor trash just 
 like in other rpgs, my biggest problem is that most of the time you just drive from A to B, maybe 
 get attacked by a couple of bandits and complete a random mission and thats pretty much sums up 
 the game, its not exactly a bad game, but more substance and better AI might have made this game 
 stand out from other driving combat games.
  
  Its a pretty easy game once you get some decent weapons such as Plasma Cannons or **** (don't ask) 
 so again with typical rpg fashion, get better equipment = progress further in the game x even better 
 equipment + new truck = teh win! Once you rack up enough coins to buy the big trucks and some really 
 nasty weapons you can pick off bandits so easily at a distance that they bearly even manage to 
 fire off at shot at you, even in the later areas where hunters equipped with heat seeking rockets 
 don't even stand a chance, in fact the biggest enemy in the game is you're own truck since even 
 with some driving enhancement gadgets, it still handles really badly and many times you're smash 
 into a tree or drive down a cliff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecraponahat
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  the game was a good idea they just didint make it right sddly the voice acting and one liners just 
 plain sucked but there is still game play in it while it could have been better i wish somone would 
 take the idea of the game and make one better because i like the concept and i have been playing 
 it and enjoying it slowly it still makes me fell sad that such a good concept was wasted on a game 
 like this maybe if you could acctualy get down the truck and interact in towns it lacks features 
 a lot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameManiaK
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  I played the game, and for as far I see the main problem of this game was the lack of funds, because 
 the idea was good, but as the main review shows, there are major problems with this game, but also 
 good stuff.
  As you start playing, you can smell a new and thrill adventure that is going to appear, but as 
 you go through the road, you see other vehicles crashing into fences and walls, getting stuck and 
 even falling down a river... conclusion: Artificial Intelligence is very questionable. 
  About the gameplay and sound, it as a good sense for weight and torque (if its to heavy it won't 
 climb a mountain) , but as you try to stay on track you verify a lot of sensibility in driving along 
 the road ( in the races at the desert you can see this fact as you try to go to left or right) . 
 The soundtracks are quite adapted to the game, but as you drive about four hours you get a little 
 annoyed about the music. The dialogue and speech are very low quality, also maybe due to low funds.
 
  I like playing the game and I don't regret the time I spent playing it, but I hope to play the 
 sequel of this game and enjoy even more!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZX1234R
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 7, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  At a first glance the game seems nice. An innovative idea about a RPG title with trucks sounds 
 exciting. But you will discover the opposite along the (long) way. There are few trucks that the 
 player can buy and the vehicle upgrade options are few . There are also a few weapons (cannons, machine 
 guns, energy and mortars) which vary only by size (cannons, bigger cannons, biggest cannons) . The 
 music seems good enough and the sound effects are good. The main quest is too short and the only 
 thing you do among various parts of it is to go back and forth through hundreds of kilometers just 
 to find out that you will be doing the same thing in reverse. A little more map design wouldn't 
 hurt and a few more vehicles and weapons should make this title a better buy. Will keep your interest 
 for a couple of days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaStOfThE
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm not gonna start a new review. I'm just gonna add a few observations to the "official" 
 review.
  To be honest, it seems to me that the reviewer was a bit hasty. The story is average, if you play 
 enough to let the story unravel.
  Yes, the voice acting is terrible, and the mission design is well... dullsville.
  But the gameplay 
 has a lot of potential. It is very clear (at least to me) the producers had all the best intentions 
 in the world. But not enough money.
  If, IF this game will get a sequel, I bet it will be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DelphiDevil
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Not the most brilliant game on the market, Hard Truck is one of those russian games that's good 
 as idea but pretty bad at implementation.
  
  I got this game from a friend of mine who collects tons of games.... first impression was: "Man 
 the voices are awful... it must be from Rusia" and hey i was right :P
  
  The game definitely grows on you... after about 30 minutes (and a few kilometers later) i found 
 out that the best thing about this game is the combat that you get every time you exit the cities 
 and go drivin' into the sunset :)
  
  The story is.... well..... it IS... there's a storyline to follow but your not forced to, you can 
 very well stay and trade until you get bored and go to the next map thus continuing the storyline.
 
  
  I never played Auto Assault but have seen it and this game reminds me of it in a cheaper single 
 player way :)
  
  So in conclusion.... for a few cheap hours of fun buy it (at a discount :) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  This game is fun! 
  It is very easy to learn and play, and the menu system is just stellar. I have been playing for 
 over 4 hours now and I can't find many problems. For $19.99 (and with a patch and all new expansion 
 on the way) this game just rocks. Its shorter than you $60 titles obviously, but I feel the gameplay 
 is top notch. Its fun and has a decent story (could easyly be richer with a rerecording of the 
 voices.) and decent missions. Do not expect the depth of big name RPGs. Go into this game with 
 the attitude you had playing wasteland, autoduel or fallout. It is a cool game that is well worth 
 the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keinende
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Game play time 7hrs. 24mins.
  
  Having played this game long enough, I'd say I can give a fairly accurate review.
  
  Sound:
 
  
  Plainly stated, the sound is quite good. Every bullet has an appropriate effect, whether it clatters 
 against your armor or fires into the ground. I enjoy driving around if only to hear bullets whizzing 
 and whirring past and to glance around to see enemies firing at me beyond my radar range. One thing 
 that did bother me, however, is the volume range seemed off between weapons; like the Rainmetal 
 for instance sounded too loud when heard alongside the standard weapons, almost disrupting gameplay. 
 As you drive around, you will hear taunts from enemies and friendly hellos from traders. The music 
 is fair quality, though I turned it off after playing so long, as there didn't seem to be enough 
 songs to last the length of gameplay. After listening to the music a bit more it seems too mixed 
 and not focused enough. The music can range from cajun, country, indian, jazz which does'nt seem 
 very suiting for a post apoctaliptic game like this. You can control the music/sound effects/speech/taunt 
 occasions separately in the options menu. As I mention later in my review, the voice acting is 
 only of fair quality, but you don't hear it often enough for it to bother you too much.
  
  Game Engine/Graphics:
  
  The game engine/physics are perfect for this game. When you blow up 
 a car, pieces of it fly up from the explosion and only the charred chassis remains -- I have a habit 
 of playing "kick the flaming tire" after exploding an enemy. At one point early on, the game takes 
 control of my car for a cut-scene in which it runs over a dweller (people, as they are called in-game) 
 and drags him under my car for the remainder of the scene -- that gave me a pretty good laugh. Overall, 
 the physics are realistic but are also more action-oriented allowing better playability and control. 
 The in-game models/icons/art have amazing detail put into each one. Many of these details you will 
 not notice unless you closely examine everything for yourself. When your truck sustains damage 
 sparks will fly, it will smoke, and wheels will rotate awkwardly. When you fire weapons they will 
 smoke from their barrels, explosions spew fire into the air and you are definitely not left wanting 
 more but completely satisfied. The lighting in this game is excellent, the models are smooth, and 
 this game is a joy to stare at for many hours at a time.
  
  Plot:
  
  Okay, this is the part of the game lacking, in my opinion. Your father was murdered and you have 
 to find out by whom so you can avenge his death. So throughout the game, you basically just go 
 from place-to-place picking up clues on where to find this person. The voice acting is fair, but 
 not excellent by any means. They also did a nice budget cut by having everyone wear masks (no lip 
 sync) . The masks are a nice touch in a way, but I wished they looked more like gas masks instead 
 of masque masks. Aside from the main plot quests, you can always go to a town and talk to a barkeep 
 or dweller to pick up a basic mission (think Vice City) . These missions don't offer a lot of variety: 
 escort trader to this town, deliver this package to this place, give me a ride to here, kill some 
 bandits for money... It looks like the expansion will make this part of the game better.
  
  RPG Elements:
  
  The upgrade/RPG elements are amazing. I honestly didn't expect this much from 
 a budget title. You have a full encyclopedia of every item in-game that you come across, which 
 you can access at any time. It will even show the model and a brief summary of the item. During 
 the game you start with basic trucks, and you unlock more as you progress. Each truck has a cab 
 and a storage area, booth of which have multiple counterparts you can choose to your liking. Every 
 item in the game has a base and a quality level. For instance, I have a Deadly Cyclops with enlarged 
 barrel, which means it does more damage and has increased range (you can tell the damage/range/etc. 
 simply by hovering your cursor over an item) . There are many different weapon types and sizes. 
 Small, medium, large, wide, and a few extras. One extra slot you can place mines/oil slicks/nitro 
 etc. There are also slots for upgrading your truck as a whole, or specifically armor, torque, etc. 
 The amount and type of slot depends entirely on which Truck Cabs/Storage you pick.
  
  Minor Gripes (it looks like at least some of these will be fixed in the expansion) :
  
  The 
 game definitely needs more mission variety, as aforementioned. The night atmosphere is not dark 
 enough, so your headlights are never really needed (fixed in expansion) . It would be nice to play 
 with a friend (fixed in expansion) . There are also many minor translation issues, but I'm sure 
 these will be patched the more we report them in the forums. I'd like to be able to buy a gas station 
 to store my stuff on each map, it would add more to the role playing elements.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you like RPG/driving games, or want to play as Mad Max for a while, you MUST 
 pick up this game. The game may seem small without much content at first, but keep playing and 
 you will be rewarded. I eagerly await the expansion to enjoy this game even further.
  
  (Thanks to my wife for editing all my grammar errors.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kailii
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 4, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  It's almost impossible to review Hard Truck without comparing it to Auto Assault, but i'll try 
 to make it quick and painless:
  Both games share action based gameplay, your vehicle while in difficult terrain performs like a 
 grasshopper on balloon tires, and most roads are just about 5 feet wide.
  
  The graphics seem to be directly taken from "T72: Balkans on Fire", so there is not a lot of variation 
 to be seen. On the bright side, you can expect smooth gameplay.
  
  The sound is a real shortcoming. It's so badly mixed, you'll have your ears blown off by the working 
 noise of a garage while in town, yet you will barely hear your cars engine while on the road. Overall 
 sound quality can also be called mediocre at best.
  
  The gameplay is my real problem with this game. In general, it looks unfinished wherever you look. 
 It feels like the game was thought to be ready for release once the bare minimums were achieved.
 
  Buka is not really known for doing Russian to English translations clearly understandable to the 
 average guy, and Hard Truck can't be called one of their masterpieces as in game dialogue is often 
 barely understandable, misleading in terms of quests, plain dumb or all of the above.
  
  But what makes the whole thing blow in my opinion is the lack of any features helpful to the player. 
 There is for example no cruise control and no automatic camera positioning.
  If this feels trivial to you, think again: It means you have to keep that acceleration button pressed 
 down nearly all the time, even when doing a routine trip of 10 minutes from point A to B.
  And it means you have to make each turn twice: Once for the vehicle, and again for the camera.
 
  
  I considered to continue talking about the very limited random quest system as there is not much 
 else to be done except following the storyline, but it seems more pratical to me to end this review 
 with a simple advice for new players:
  If cash is a problem - and i believe it will be until the mid/endgame - try to follow the main 
 quest line as far as possible. Once you reach areas spotting enemies who will destroy you in one 
 or two volleys, make the best of it by hunting near towns equipped with automatic defense turrets. 
 And loot away. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
