-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/hardtruck18wheelsofsteel/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.6, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 375 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ValuSoft
Developer: Sunstorm Int.
Genre: Truck Racing
Date:     Aug 31, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Simulation fans and patient drivers may find a lot to enjoy in this often likeable and surprisingly 
 deep game. 

 Its aggressive title notwithstanding, Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel isn't a traditional foot-to-the-floor 
 racer. Unlike most driving games, this budget-priced game from ValuSoft does not put you in high-speed 
 wheel-to-wheel duels with computer-controlled competitors. Instead, you must carefully navigate 
 your way through a semirealistic version of America, picking up and delivering cargo, weighing 
 the hazards of available assignments against potential monetary gain, and eventually building an 
 untouchable trucking empire. At some points, you'll feel compelled to drive at maximum big-rig 
 speeds and bend a few rules here and there just to ensure that your payloads arrive in a timely 
 fashion. But Hard Truck is very much a solo journey that emphasizes truck management as much as 
 it does point-to-point pace. Whether you'll enjoy the game depends very much on your affinity for 
 its unusual concept and your ability to look past several quirks and glitches to see the rather 
 intriguing challenges that lie underneath.           The Hard Truck in-cab view offers an instrument 
 panel that works... but looks rudimentary.    

 Although Hard Truck isn't exactly a household name on this side of the Atlantic, the game has actually 
 existed in one form or another for several years, having originally been developed way back in 
 1998 by Russian design studio SoftLab-Nsk. This, the third iteration in the series, is produced 
 jointly by Czech-based SCS Software and America's Sunstorm Interactive (of Deer Hunter fame) and 
 will be seen by veteran Hard Truckers as a very different game from prior editions. Whereas earlier 
 versions of the game featured an action-packed arcade mode and a worrisome amount of vehicular 
 contact, Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel dispenses with the arcade-style wackiness in favor of simulation-style 
 authenticity.   

  When you begin your very first assignment, you'll find yourself parked, engine off, in a San Francisco 
 loading dock, preparing to pick up and haul your first load to one of several cities in the American 
 Southwest. This is the chosen locale for Hard Truck's "easy" mode, whereas the medium level takes 
 place in and around the Midwest, and the difficult level runs through the uneven terrain and inclement 
 weather of the Rocky Mountains.   

  Hard Truck offers a truly impressive variety of viewing perspectives, many of which you'll want 
 to audition right away. From the first-person cab view, you can see all that is ahead of you or 
 use your mouse to virtually turn your head from side to side to peer out the driver and passenger 
 windows. The game offers several other camera angles, including right and left mirrors (which are 
 unfortunately not incorporated in the cab view) , an aerial camera position that lets you monitor 
 everything in the immediate vicinity, and a nifty mouse-controlled free-floating exterior cam that 
 pivots 360 degrees around the truck.   

  As is typical of every Hard Truck mission, you'll see a number of trailers, each filled with a 
 given cargo and ready for transportation. Large floating message boards appear above each trailer, 
 displaying the nature and fragility of the cargo, the time allotted for your run, and various other 
 critical details. Naturally, remuneration for your efforts will vary in accordance with their relative 
 difficulty. Hauling a load of delicate glassware over a long distance in a short time frame will 
 pay far more than trucking a container of clothing on a short jaunt down the freeway.   

  If you manage to make your delivery, you'll use the resulting paycheck to increase your bank account, 
 effect necessary repairs, and improve your company's rating. With a better rating, you'll be offered 
 more-profitable jobs. With more-profitable jobs, you'll gradually improve and upgrade your truck, 
 purchase new trucks, hire new drivers to handle the extra workload, and, with any luck, grow your 
 company to obscene proportions.   

  But Hard Truck has many potholes on the road to success. Most often, the missions' allotted time 
 frames are frightfully tight. In many instances, you'll find yourself ignoring stop signs and traffic 
 lights and exceeding speed limits just to complete a job on time. In so doing, you may incur the 
 wrath of the local authorities and pay a significant penalty. You may try jumping the occasional 
 curb just to cut precious seconds from a given run, only to see your trailer detach and drop to 
 the road. You'll then be forced to dial 911 and pay a towing service just to get reattached and 
 remobilized.           In Hard Truck, rain and snow will gather on the windshield to obscure your 
 view.    

 And those aren't the only potential hazards. Just as in real life, Hard Truck requires its drivers 
 to regularly replenish themselves with a certain amount of sleep, or they'll risk nodding off at 
 the wheel. To monitor whether you need sleep, you need to watch the game's "drive time" readout 
 at the top of the screen. When the clock reaches zero, which due to Hard Truck's accelerated time 
 and compressed distances will occur every 20 minutes or so, your virtual eyes will begin to close 
 and the screen will grow dark. They'll pop open again in just a second or two, but in the meantime 
 you may have driven off the road or into another vehicle or roadside abutment. As you continue 
 to drift in and out of sleep, the dark periods grow more frequent and the potential for accidents 
 increases. Fortunately, you can pull into a motel, a truck stop, or even a rest area for some shut-eye, 
 an instantaneous procedure where your only decision is the amount of sleep you can afford. The 
 downside, of course, is that you'll have even less time to complete your run once you do get moving 
 again.   

  Soon, you'll realize that sleep stops, fuel stops, weigh-in stops, and inadvertent police stops 
 cut seriously into your schedule. Throw in the occasional accident -- some of which occur independently 
 of you but block the road ahead -- and you'll quickly see that you must take a few risks just to 
 keep your company in business. Luckily, you can always hit the N key to gain immediate access to 
 critical company information. How's your rating? How effective are your new drivers? Can you afford 
 to hire a better driver? Are you rated highly enough for an upgraded cargo license? Are you talented 
 enough to be assigned a higher-paying regular route? The questions are many, and in this way, Hard 
 Truck is a very interesting game.    

 It is not, however, designed for those who like their driving fast and furious. In truth, the majority 
 of gameplay is spent behind the wheel of your 18-wheeler, where the going is often slow and sometimes 
 tedious. From a dead stop, it'll take at least one full minute of real time to attain any sort 
 of decent speed. Indeed, first gear brings you up to all of 10mph, and in this game, 10mph  feels 
  like 10mph. Although this is realistic, it's not quite the same experience as driving a nimble 
 racecar. Furthermore, simply brushing against a guardrail or another vehicle is often enough to 
 grind your truck to a complete stop, forcing you to endure that entire acceleration process once 
 again. Curiously, Hard Truck's trucks are affected only marginally, if at all, by steep grades. 
           You can choose what to haul next at the loading docks, but you may end up spending too 
 much time.    

 Even backing up to deliver your goods at a loading dock is a time-consuming affair. Newcomers will 
 undoubtedly jackknife their rig many times before they're finally able to direct it into the correct 
 stall. Unfortunately, as much as the game's accelerated clock helps make your long-distance runs 
 a bit less cumbersome, it is your enemy at the receiving and loading docks, where an hour or more 
 of game time can go by while you simply try to maneuver your rig into its designated dock.   

 
  And that's not the only problem you'll encounter. Traffic cops, for example, seemingly appear 
 out of nowhere to flag you down for speeding or breaking some other basic rule. Yet if you should 
 actually see one before he sees you, chances are he won't even know you're there. We were quite 
 able to blow past cruisers on the freeway, hurtle through red lights and stop signs, and generally 
 commit all sorts of atrocities while in full view of a variety of police vehicles without so much 
 as a single warning.   

  One of the game's most annoying traits is its poor placement of directional signage. Unlike in 
 the real world, you'll have less than three seconds and 100 meters to react after a sign becomes 
 visible for the corresponding exit or turnoff. This extremely tight positioning of directions, 
 which is clearly intended to make the game even more difficult, ends up being more frustrating 
 than challenging. Fortunately, Hard Truck does make it fairly easy to locate your precise destination 
 by smartly placing corporate logos on signposts throughout the nearby area once you get closer 
 to your destination.   

  Nevertheless, it's difficult to condemn Hard Truck based on these problems, because the game also 
 does many things well. Developer SCS Software has incorporated a number of impressive visual and 
 practical perks into the game, the foremost of which are its environmental variables. In Hard Truck, 
 you'll experience midday sun, early-evening dusk, and midnight blackness, all of which move along 
 and transpose at a compressed but believable pace. You may encounter a rainstorm, in which case 
 you'll be compelled to switch on the wipers (two-speed wipers, no less) to clear the windshield. 
 At higher elevations, snow will fall all around, and the highway may well be bordered by two or 
 three feet of the stuff. It doesn't actually accumulate, but it does exist, often turning a two-lane 
 thoroughfare into a dicey one-lane avenue.   

  Though far from geniuses, the artificially intelligent motorists of Hard Truck are generally decent. 
 They'll activate their turn signals to change lanes, pass only on the left, and generally steer 
 clear of your monstrous beast. They'll obey the game's working traffic lights and pull to a stop 
 when they hear the siren of a police cruiser. Although quite erratic at times, seemingly unaware 
 of where they're really going, they only rarely exert a detrimental impact on the game.        
    This camera position, from just above your rig, offers a good view of the surrounding area. 
    

 As you might expect from a budget-priced game, Hard Truck's graphics leave something to be desired. 
 The game's vehicles are quite boxy and minimally detailed. Onscreen informational overlays sport 
 rudimentary fonts and truncated words. Lighting and textural anomalies -- particularly big translucent 
 geometric patterns that waft across the landscape -- are common. Crashes are horrifically mundane, 
 with no wreckage, no visual damage, and no fire and brimstone. Yet if you're a die-hard driver 
 who's seen his share of lengthy road trips and lengthy driving stints, the game will occasionally 
 convince you that you're really out there on the open road.   

  It is important to note again that Hard Truck is not an easy game. Although it may seem so at first, 
 when the routes are relatively simple and the drive time clock isn't threatening, it will inevitably 
 push both your reflexes and your brain as you move into more challenging jobs and factor in all 
 the potential misfortunes. It's definitely possible to end up flat broke and out of business. Furthermore, 
 things only grow more complex when you've hired other drivers and must monitor the entire company, 
 often while driving your own truck.   

  Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel is one of those titles that would have benefited tremendously from 
 a larger development budget. A little bit of polish would have added much to what is an intriguing 
 but flawed game. Nevertheless, simulation fans and patient drivers may find a lot to enjoy in this 
 often likeable and surprisingly deep game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: IsmirZone
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game may be outdated by now, but I can remember back in 2002 when I played this game for the 
 first time. I taught that this game was an awesome idea. A 18 Wheeler game that is simulator of 
 what is like to be a trucker on the road. Delivering cabins state to state. Even for 2002 I thought 
 that the graphics could have been a bit more edgier. In every other aspect I enjoyed this game 
 to the fullest. There is Day time, Night time, Snow, Rain, and clear weather throughout your trip. 
 Just like in real life there are stops that you will take and jobs you will have to take cabins 
 from city to city. There will be traffic along the way and gas stations to stop at. Just like in 
 any simulation game such as Flight Simulator you will need to be patient and take your time. The 
 controls are fair and simple. You can use a game-pad, racing wheel, or keyboard to control the 
 trucks. As you drive on highways to get to your destinations you will fallow the signs just like 
 in real life so you know where you are and what exit you need to take. You are presented with a 
 map when you use the 'M' key. This way you can see where you are. You can also change music during 
 the ride. There aren't many tracks to choose from, but for the start it will do. Some of the sound 
 in the game is not that good. Mainly the traffic cars, When the pas by the sound is there, the 
 it stops before it fades out at times. The game does not have too many bugs, some minor graphical 
 issues, but it's nothing that will keep you from playing. Even with the newer updated games of 
 the series. Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel was the most fun way back from the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Priest_R47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  My pros and cons:
  
  Pros:
  Sounds.
  Graphics.
  Driving.
  Places like Los Vegas.
  You get to make your own company's name.
  It's only $10.00 at Wal-Mart
  
  Cons:
  Long game.
 
  With a trailor, it drives too slow.
  Kinda borning if you play it 20 minutes.
  Time is really short and you can't make it to the place in time.
  Some trucks are dirty to look 
 at.
  
  Hard Trucks:18 Wheels of Steels in a game with a solid gameplay designed with good graphics and 
 a little good gameplay for a while. It isn't really a game, but it's good for anyone who is in 
 to driving/loves trucks and in the future, he/she wants to work for a truck company. I say, this 
 is a pretty good game, but kinda boring. It's going in my games collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noodleguitar
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is the first Hard Truck game in the "18 Wheels of Steel" series.
  I think of it more of an intro into the other 18 WoS series. This game is fairly limited in many 
 sights.
  You don't have the whole country of America to explore, for example. The game exists of three maps, 
 1 for every difficulty,
  which is very non-realistic. So, you might have to choose a difficulty that doesn't suit you in 
 order to drive the snowy landscapes you wanted to.
  
  An other feature the makers add to increase the difficulty is that you have a time limit in which 
 you must deliver your cargo, if you don't, it's gonna cost you money. It isn't so bad that they 
 use time limits in this game, but the problem is the amount of time you are given for a delivery. 
 This amount is very tight, no I mean it. No matter how much I play this game, I still keep delivering 
 stuff too late. Three reasons for this:
  
  1. If you are hooked up with a trailer, it will take for ever to accelerate to a normal speed. 
 You can of course buy a better truck for yourself, but It won't be much of help when you start 
 the game and have almost now cash to spend.
  2. The police. If you finally gained some speed (which involves driving past the speed limit) of 
 course you hear the biep from your radar detector, yes, the police are busy again. You really need 
 to slow down to avoid trouble, because if you get caught you the police will put you to a hold 
 and you're gonna have to do the acceleration process again.
  3. Your worst nightmare: Crashing into other cars. I have no words for this. The first time I crashed 
 into another car I thought a bug was happening. This problem is really getting the realism-factor 
 down. If you run into a car, it means a sudden stop for your truck (and the crushed car) . When 
 you finally stop kicking your PC to trash, you'll have to go over the acceleration process again, 
 which is very annoying when the time amount of the cargo you are hauling just tics on, and when 
 you see the damage meter more blood-coloured than it was already.
  
  The sound of the game is a little bit more of the same, but you can turn it off if you like, so 
 that wouldn't be much of a problem. Especially if you know just know enough of computers to add 
 your own music in .ogg format to the game. (I love driving towards Vegas while listening Heavy 
 Metal :P )
  Another disadvantage of this game is the amount of trucks you can drive. I think there are about 
 7 trucks that can be used.
  Even in HT: King of the Road you can chose way more vehicles to use!
  
  I think of this game 
 as an intro to the later games, because this game is simple, easy to learn and it teaches you to 
 drive efficient and the right way. The map is small so you can explore every place. 
  You can learn the tactics you need to succesfully play the other 18 WoS games. If you're not planning 
 on buying one of the other games, you shouldn't buy this game at all, because you wouldn't know 
 where to start.
  If you would start with 18 Wheels of Steel: Across America straight away for example, you probably 
 would go into free mode and don't know where to start. There is no tutorial and little info in 
 this game. That's why I recommend trying the normal 18 Wheels of Steel first.
  
  It's a good game, you'll get to feel how a truck drives (don't crash into cars when trying this) 
 and gives you a good impression of the average Hard Truck game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman650
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Hard Truck, I thought it would be a great game. There were two reasons: #1: I never 
 owned a trucking game before, but I loved 18 Wheeler: American Pro Trucker. #2: The features listed 
 on the back of the box made it sound very enticing. When I started playing it, it seemed great. 
 There were different types of cargo, destinations that lead to real cities (Phoenix and Reno, just 
 to name one or two) and a bunch of different trucks. After a while though, it became boring and 
 repetitive. It was always the same thing: Pick up cargo in Oakland, deliver it to Reno, then pick 
 up cargo in Reno and deliver it to either Oakland or Vegas. Oh, sure, you could hire drivers to 
 do stuff for you, but they didn't help very much with your income. What takes you only an hour 
 or so takes your drivers about a day to do. If you ask me, that's just dumb. Unless your drivers 
 have trucks that are worse than what you had at the beginning, there is absolutely no explanation 
 for this. Also, the physics are terrible. When you ram a car, it seems like someone picked it up 
 and moved it, rather than the ever- so- lovely metal- crunching crashes that should happen. While 
 the game says nothing about having great crashes, you'd think the developers had the brains to 
 at least try to make the crashes look good. 
  While the game might seem at fun at first, it becomes extremely dull in the long run. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
