-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/hpquidditchworldcup/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 359 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Alt. Sports
Date:     Oct 28, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup is a decent first effort at simulating the chosen sport 
 of wizards, it falls short of its promise primarily because of sluggish controls. 

  The games based on J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter franchise have always been great commercial successes, 
 riding the coattails of the wildly popular books. The games' publisher, Electronic Arts, has boldly 
 attempted to branch out from the action adventure games by creating a "sports" game based on the 
 fictional sport of quidditch, which is described in the various Harry Potter books and depicted 
 in the films. While Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup is a decent first effort at simulating the 
 chosen sport of wizards, it falls short of its promise primarily because of sluggish controls and 
 shallow gameplay.  

          Quidditch is analogous to soccer.     

  For those who aren't familiar with the Harry Potter books or films, quidditch is roughly analogous 
 to airborne soccer. Seven players on each team ride broomsticks around a huge arena while chasing 
 and interacting with four balls that are in play simultaneously. Three vertical hoops of varying 
 height stand on each end of the oval field, or "pitch," as it's called. These hoops represent the 
 goal-scoring area for each team.  

  Three players on a team take the "chaser" position; their role is similar to that of a forward 
 on a soccer or hockey squad. Their primary responsibility is to score goals through the hoops using 
 the quaffle, which is one of the balls in play. Each goal is worth 10 points. Two other players 
 on each team are the "beaters," and their role has no equivalent in any other sport. The beaters 
 are armed with small bats, which they use to swat at two magically propelled balls, called bludgers. 
 The bludgers will randomly attack the players on the pitch -- the beaters' duty is to protect their 
 own players from the bludgers while using their bats to try to encourage the bludgers to go after 
 the other team. One player is the "keeper," and as the name suggests, the keeper's job is to play 
 goalie near the vertical hoops and prevent any goals. Finally, the seventh player on each team 
 plays as the "seeker." The seeker's job is to keep an eye out for a tiny and elusive ball called 
 the golden snitch. Like the bludgers, the snitch is magically self-propelled. A match of quidditch 
 continues until the golden snitch is caught; the seeker who snatches it earns 150 points for his 
 or her team.  

  The books and films have always portrayed quidditch as a chaotic spectacle. With 14 players zipping 
 around on lightning-fast broomsticks while chasing and dodging four balls in play, quidditch is 
 obviously a very complex sport. In an attempt by the developers to simplify the game for the younger 
 audience, who will likely be the primary players of Quidditch World Cup, you'll directly control 
 the chasers and the seeker only. You don't seem to get any control over the keeper, and your interaction 
 with the beaters is limited to pressing the bludger button, which will cause one of your beaters 
 to launch a bludger at the opposing chasers. From there you control only the bludger as you try 
 to collide with the enemy quaffle-carrier.  

  The game does a good job of easing you into the game of quidditch and teaching you the fundamentals. 
 The four-team tournament at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry serves as an extended tutorial. 
 First, you practice simple concepts like passing, shooting, and tackling, and then you are allowed 
 to play a game against one of the other houses at Hogwarts. After that, bludgers and special moves 
 are introduced, and another game in the house tournament is played, until finally you are indoctrinated 
 with the concept of combo passes, and the final tutorial game is played with all features enabled. 
 If you should win the round-robin tournament at Hogwarts against the other houses, the World Cup 
 will be unlocked, and you'll be able to choose from nine different world teams including the US, 
 England, Australia, and Germany and play in that round-robin tournament for the World Cup.  

          You'll meet many recognizable characters along the way.     

  Quidditch World Cup 
 also does a good job of including recognizable characters from the books and movies. Potter serves 
 as the seeker for Gryffindor, with the Weasley twins at the beater positions. Malfoy is the recognizable 
 jerk playing seeker for Slytherin, while Harry's love interest, Cho, is the seeker for Ravenclaw. 
 As you advance into the World Cup, Ludo Bagman, the international head of wizard sports, handles 
 the play-by-play announcing.  

  Quidditch World Cup's primary flaw lies in its control, which often feels sluggish. The game doesn't 
 seem to do a very good job of capturing the speed of the game as it was portrayed in the films. 
 Instead of feeling the freedom of flight, your players often feel more like they're slogging through 
 a thick soup. No turbo button exists to speed up your players. While you won't always want to fly 
 at the same speed, it seems as if the computer decides arbitrarily how fast you can fly or how 
 sharply you'll be allowed to turn. Passing is also imprecise. You have control over the direction 
 of your pass using the directional stick, but oftentimes your teammates will inexplicably leave 
 their passing lanes just as you throw the quaffle. Expect to turn the ball over frequently and 
 not always know why. The console versions all control similarly, but PC players who lack a gamepad 
 may find the keyboard and mouse control a bit tricky, though not unlearnable.     

  For most of a match you're in control of the chasers only -- as you do combination moves, stringing 
 along a series of passes, and scoring on the other team, you'll earn various single-use power-ups, 
 including the ability to launch a bludger and perform special moves and team special moves. Special 
 moves can be activated while shooting or stealing. These unleash short cutscenes showing your players 
 doing acrobatic moves as they fire the quaffle into the goal or rip the ball away from the opponent. 
 The team special moves are similar to doing a special shot, except that they can be activated from 
 anywhere on the pitch for an easy goal. These cutscenes are longer and move involved, with the 
 whole team participating in a particularly impressive score.  

          With tighter controls, Quidditch World Cup might have had greater appeal...     

  Unfortunately, 
 special moves cannot be blocked, which takes some strategy away from the game. If the opposing 
 player earns a special move or team special move, the only defense against it is to tackle and 
 take the quaffle away from them before it can be activated. It's also impossible to manually switch 
 players on defense; the computer does it for you as the quaffle is passed forward, which is also 
 frustrating.  

  Aside from earning you power-ups more quickly, doing combo passes also advances the golden snitch 
 bar at the top of the screen. Each time a team does something beneficial, the golden snitch bar 
 moves toward the center -- when the two sides meet, the golden snitch is released, and your control 
 switches to the seeker as you compete against the other seeker in a simple race to catch the snitch. 
 Unlike your chasers in the earlier portion of the match, your seeker does get a turbo boost meter, 
 and this is recharged by keeping precisely on the golden trail left by the snitch. The amount of 
 boost you get is directly related to how far your team has advanced the golden snitch bar during 
 the match; in essence, you are given a better chance at catching the snitch if your team has played 
 well.  

  While the mechanic of the golden snitch bar is an interesting idea, its execution leaves something 
 to be desired. It seems to reward style over substance; if you're adept at forechecking the opposing 
 player and scoring goals with a minimum of passes, you can find yourself far ahead in the score, 
 yet far behind in the golden snitch bar. Also, the computer seems to be rewarded a lot more heavily 
 for stringing a few combos together than you are; if you want to enter the snitch chase with a 
 decent-sized turbo meter, you'll have to outplay the computer rather severely.  

  As you play through the game, you'll be awarded special quidditch cards for completing certain 
 challenges or making certain achievements in a match with a specific team. Some cards are merely 
 decoration, while others can unlock special moves or pitches for use in exhibition matches. GameCube 
 players who also have the GBA version of the game will be able to use the connection cable to trade 
 cards back and forth. As for multiplayer support, the game allows two players to go head-to-head 
 on the same machine, but no online play is enabled on any of the platforms, including the PC.  
 

          ... but as it is, only hardcore Harry Potter fans will overlook the flaws.     

  Even if the gameplay is a bit shallow, Quidditch World Cup does a pretty good job of visual presentation. 
 All of the pitches in the game are beautifully presented, including Hogwarts' pitch in the summer 
 and winter and all of the nine international pitches. The Japanese quidditch pitch is one of the 
 more impressive ones, set over top of a shallow koi pond with delicate bridges arcing over it. 
 The Nordic team plays within a wall of glaciers; you can see the cold breath of the players as 
 they breathe out during the cutscenes. The graphics quality between the consoles is pretty comparable -- there 
 are no significant differences to speak of, although the Xbox and PC versions are a tad sharper. 
 The sound in the game didn't fare quite as well, with the music being somewhat overdramatic and 
 the play-by-play announcing from Bagman and Lee Jordan (during Hogwarts matches) being extremely 
 repetitive.  

  Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup is a pretty decent first effort at simulating the fictional sport 
 of quidditch. However, the developers have definitely left plenty of room for improvement. With 
 tighter controls and a little bit more effort put into deeper, more strategic gameplay, Quidditch 
 World Cup might have turned out to be a very good game. As it stands, the game will primarily appeal 
 to hardcore Harry Potter fans who are willing to overlook the flaws.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SilentJay76
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Quidditch World Cup is actually quite a fun game. You complete the challenges for your training, 
 take on the different Hogwarts house teams, enjoy beating the sox off Malfoy and his Slytherins, 
 and (perhaps a little too easily) win the House Cup.
  
  Then you get to take over one of the teams in the Quidditch World Cup, and play the tournament. 
 And after beating every team (perhaps a little too easily) you win the Cup.
  
  And then... well... that's about it. If you're into card-collecting, you can play with different 
 teams, and achieve various goals (combos, special moves, etc.) to collect them all. Personally, 
 after winning the tournament with two different teams, I couldn't quite motivate myself to keep 
 going. The game is far too easy, and it's just not rewarding enough to keep playing the same tournament 
 again and again.
  
  If you're a Harry Potter fan, this is certainly worth picking up for a few bucks. You'll have some 
 great fun for a few days - maybe a week or two. But there just isn't enough to do past that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I really dont like theese kind of games but in this one i allways get stuck because this guy is 
 with a bat and he keeps hitting the ball and for some reason i cant grab the stupid ball because 
 of the bat guy. I tried it alot of times but it pissed me off so i gave up in this stupid game.
 
  
  The characters are supposed to be wearing uniforms and here they look like Heavy Armor suits and 
 sometimes i think they are knights that are trying to grab the ball = ( .
  
  This game doesnt have anything funny and doesnt make you enojy playing it. So please buy some cokes 
 instead of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 5
Date: May 25, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup is the first game to ever focus on the wizard and witch sport. 
 The games graphics are actually pretty good, but one of the disappointing things is the characters 
 hardly resemble the actors that we know and love. The games controls are kind of weird and will 
 probably never make sense the whole time you play the game. They just are weird. The concept is 
 a great idea, having one of the worlds favorite fantasy sports in a game, but they just dont do 
 it very well. The game is exactly the same from start to finish. They never add any new elements 
 to make it more fun and exciting. Once you start at Hogwarts and then move up to the World Cup, 
 the game is exactly the same, you still do the same stuff. Another thing about this game that really 
 brings it down is that it is painfully easy. You can score hundreds of goals in a match with no 
 problem at all. Overall the game has a great formula they just needed to work on it a little bit 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter Quidditch is an enjoyable game! At the start, you have the option of which Team you 
 can be: Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw or slytherin. This is a fun game with unique gameplay. 
 It's fun to pick your team from around the world when playing for the world cup. It's funny to 
 see all the different teams with cool hair and interesting uniforms.
  With all special moves that are awesome to pull off, this game takes part in almost all aspects 
 of playing quidditch: Chasers, Beaters and Seeker (with the small exception of keeper) . This game 
 is however way better than the latest Harry Potter disappointments (Goblet of fire, Prisoner of 
 Azkaban on PC) , but still no match for Harry Potter 1 &amp; 2, which I found awesome! With cool 
 unlockable stadiums and the famous Bulgarian Team, you will find hours of enjoyment from Quidditch!
 
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RummanDoesRule
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game i reccomend it.......... it is as good as those snaggy Fifa games and 
 those Belching English Cricket Games... i reccommend FIFA... this is a type of game tht girls will 
 hav trouble... although i dont see why girls cant play .... my thing is tht they will lose their 
 manicure pressing on the gamepad... i hav been messegaed by a girl for my ANTI-GIRL by shenalia.
 
  This game is a fifa like game. which i suppose shall be easy. its as easy as teaching your cat 
 to steal raw meat. NOW THTS COOL. i suppose lotsa ppl think this game is a bizzare. the easiest 
 way to score is making the guy come left and shoot right . worth the money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercineplex
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  As mentioned above, HP: QWC would have possibly been a great game. Too bad the controls were horribly 
 layed out. 
  
  One of the things you can do in the game is dodge a Bludger if the opposing team sends one at you. 
 This is kinda hard to do as the controls are really sloppy.
  
  Hitting your opponent with a Bludger on the other hand is way to easy. All you have to do is hold 
 the Bludger back a bit and the player you are trying to hit will eventually just slow down and 
 hit the Bludger.
  
  Other than a few minor flaws, this game is quite fun. It presents a lot of challenges in collectable 
 cards.
  
  The team moves are really neat too! All of them are really flashy and cool looking.
  
  The 
 game unfortunatley is way too easy. You can easily score goals each few seconds.
  
  Overall, this game should only be sought by Harry Potter fans. Unfortunatley this game didn't live 
 up to its potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiwiprince
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  Game-play
  The game-play of Harry Potter Qudditch is basically similar to some of the other sport sims out 
 there, with a bit of Harry thrown in. Not that this is a bad thing on the contrary this game is 
 quite enjoyable once you get used to it. One of the things about the game that is a little bit 
 sad is that you can't choose when you are going to control which sort of player. For example when 
 the match first starts you can only play the three chasers. the beaters can only be used once you 
 have enough combo points (from chasers) and the keeper only when the opposing team is going to 
 shoot. Lastly the seeker which is the thing that most upsets me. You can only use the seeker when 
 you have got enough combo points or goals. Although the game-play is good it could have been better.
 
  
  7/10
  
  Multi-player
  
  The multi-player of this game is full of fun but in my opinion incredibly unbalanced and easy to 
 win. for example whoever gets the snitch first if they have even one shred of gaming ability in 
 them they will almost always win. Once you unlock the secret arena it will be even more unbalanced 
 because of the quirky camera angles for player one. But fun is fun so even though it is far from 
 perfect it is still fun.
  
  8/10
  
  Replay Value
  
  As I have said earlier this game is incredibly fun but once you have won all the cards and been 
 through the world cup a few more times there isn't really a lot to do. Well actually there is the 
 multi-player but that is only fun for so long.
  
  6/10
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are not what you 'ld expect with all those team members moving about 
 and the 4 balls. They are actually quite good. The little cut-scenes fit together seamlessly. With 
 colourful and convincing arenas like France and England the atmosphere it creates is quite magical.
 
  
  10/10
  
  So a quick summary
  
  Pros
  + Great fun
  + Excellent graphics
  + Multi-player
  
  Cons
  - Small replay value
  - Repetitive Game-play
  
  Total Score 
 7/10
  
  This is a great game and a great buy especially now it's gone platinum
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Quidditch World Cup is surely one nice game that any Harry Potter fan (including 
 myself) will love this game. The Gamespot people have given it only 6 points which I think isn't 
 right.
  
  The game is quite good looking and the game's graphics are much better and quite good than those 
 of Sorcerer's stone's and Chamber of secrets'. I haven't played the rest of the Harry Potter games 
 so I can't tell which one of them has better graphics. The game's characters are clearly recognizable 
 and the moves of the players are fantastic so why did the GS people rate it low?
  
  There is only one drawback that after playing the game a few times you'll get bored and though 
 you may be curiously waiting for more grounds to open you will surely get a little bored. If they 
 had kept a little of 
  dramatics going in between the game - like, Fight Malfoy As He Has Really Got Sick Of You And 
 Is Coming To Finish You Off" - then even the non Harry Potter fans would have liked the game much.
 
  
  But if you're a Harry Potter and Quidditch fan (again, me) you'll simply love the game.
  
  
  Go ahead give it a try!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Everyone's heard of Harry Potter and this game brings alive the most popular sport in wizarding 
 history ---------- QUIDDITCH.
  We've all heard about it and if u've seen the movie than u've seen the sport we all dream of playing. 
 A pat on the back for EA for giving us a masterpiece in innovative sport. 
  
  If u've played any of the other games of the Potter world then u've played as the most popular 
 Seeker. But, this is where this game rises above the rest. Here you not get to play the Seeker 
 but you get to control the whole team. Its upto you whether you like the slow approach or the fast 
 play with four difficulties in the shape of various brooms - Comet260, Nimbus 2000, Nimbus 2001 
 or the fastest broom yet - The Firebolt.
  
  This is not such a complex game but an easy to play fun game, the basics of which can be easily 
 mastered within an hour. You not only get to lead your favourite house to victory, But also get 
 to play the Quidditch World Cup. And if you win the cup, you can also play in Queerditch Marsh 
 - the place where the first recorded quidditch match was played (in the wizarding world of course 
 ;) ) .
  
  The graphics may not be something of the sort experienced in Doom or Quake series but for this 
 type of game they are really brilliant. Same goes for the sound. The commentary provided by Ludo 
 Bagman and some special guests is really funny and the stadiums are breathtaking. 
  
  In the end i'd just like to say that this is a must play game even if you are not an avid Potter 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The sport of Quidditch has come to a whole new level with Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup. It 
 allows a new unique 2-player mode, but the contols are frustrating and impossible to set up. The 
 single - player game is actually very good, but it doesn't last very long; I was bored with the 
 game after a week or two. Kids get bored of this game very easy also. But the Quidditch is still 
 fun, training stinks but the actual game is fun. You get to choose your team and hopefully lead 
 them to World Cup victory, but you have to graduate from Hogwarts first, in which you participate 
 in Quidditch there. You may choose your team wherever you are, but chances are you won't care after 
 a week of about 10 hours of "fun" gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows Harry Potter. Whether you are a fan or not, you have at least heard of it. The games 
 based on the books and movies aren't very good, but the Quidditch World Cup is the exception. I 
 don't know why GameSpot calls the controls "sluggish" as the PC version is the most controllable 
 one of all platforms this game is compatible with. Trust me, I have played the PS2 version as well, 
 and THOSE controls can be called "sluggish"...
  
  Gameplay: Very good. Depending on the difficulty level (Comet 260, Nimbus 2000, Nimbus 2001, Firebolt) , 
 the broomsticks are quite easy to control. The only minus is that every special move is displayed 
 as a movie (although it can be a good view of the action) , but after every goal, the players have 
 to demonstrate their joy right in front of the camera... Annoying, but you can skip it easily.
 
  
  Graphics: Superb !! Wonderful effects and beautifully detailed stadiums, players, broomsticks, 
 ... wonderfully animated, too.
  
  Sound: Great. The classic music (Messa da Requiem, by G. Verdi btw) is excellent for background 
 music, but the most fun part is the commentary. Maybe it's sometimes annoying when Ludo Bagman 
 says the same thing a hundred times in one minute, the accents of the Australian, French and German 
 co-commentary voices are extremely funny, especially if their country is about to lose ...
  
  Conclusion: Harry Potter Quidditch World Cup is not just a game for young kids and Harry Potter 
 fans. It's a very addictive and beautifully detailed sports game, suitable for all ages and even 
 for hardcore gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neal_douglas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2004 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup is a great game. it's one subtle flaw is it's reliance on old 
 scarhead. His name and likeness should not have had to be on the box. But alas, it was.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is fine with a keyboard and mouse and the combo dependant nature of the 
 game makes for some very interesting button bashing!
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks superb, animation is stylish and vibrant and characters on their brooms look great. 
 For supporters in Hogwarts, character models form Harry Potter and the Chamber of secrets are used. 
 This can look quite odd compared to the players because they are made for differnt engines. This 
 just makes them look excited though and is not a deterrant.
  
  Sound:
  Marvellous, form the crowd to the brooms the noise is spot on. The commentary is great and often 
 very funny, particularly in Hogwarts with Lee Jordan and Seamus Finnigan.
  
  Value:
  The game is said to be "short", this is not the case. peoople claiming ot to be short have only 
 used one team in each mode and clearly have little understanding of Quidditch cards, difficulty 
 mode and more teams!
  
  Tilt:
  It's just a well made game that feels right. Even more right than Chris Columbus celluloid version. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
