-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/harrypotterphoenix/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hogwarts is re-created in all its glory for you to explore.
 Minigames are a pleasant diversion.
 Voice acting and music are good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game is little more than a virtual reality chore simulator.
 Endless backtracking makes the game even more dull.
 Cutscenes are glitchy and feel unfinished.
 Nearly everything about the game is tedious.
 Story is impossible to follow if you haven't read the book.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 899 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 25, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The video game version of Order of the Phoenix captures none of the magic in the  Harry Potter  
 books or films. 

  The  Harry Potter  series of books has captured both the minds of children and adults alike. The 
 movies haven't disappointed either and are amongst the highest grossing films of all time. For 
 some reason, the video games that have been released alongside the movies haven't been able to 
 reach the same level of quality that the movies and books have achieved. The latest game, Harry 
 Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, continues that trend. There's a faithful re-creation of the 
 Hogwarts campus to explore, but once you've seen the sights, there's not much else to do. Even 
 the most diehard Potter fans will grow tired of seeing the grand staircase as they return from 
 their umpteenth fetch quest.  

  Order of the Phoenix follows the story of the book and the movie of the same name. After narrowly 
 avoiding expulsion for using magic in front of a muggle, Harry finds that Hogwarts' new defense 
 against the dark arts teacher seems to have it out for him. To make matters worse, Voldemort is 
 threatening to rear his ugly mug again, and Harry fears that the school will be unable to defend 
 itself. With the help of Ron and Hermione, Harry rallies the students together to form Dumbledore's 
 Army in an effort to ready them for a fight against the dark lord. This all makes perfect sense 
 if you've read the book, but the story's exceedingly difficult to follow if you haven't read it 
 because vast segments of the story are told via brief full-motion video cutscenes and newspaper 
 clippings. It's easy to understand how a three-hour movie might have to leave bits and pieces out, 
 but it's puzzling that an eight-hour game can't tell even the most basic aspect of the story.  
 

           Who knew that Harry's life was so boring?      

  Though the game's box says you'll get to play as Sirius Black and Dumbledore, you do so for less 
 than five minutes, so you'll spend nearly the entire game controlling Harry. Ron and Hermione will 
 be by your side the whole time offering hints on where to go or what to do next. You'll also encounter 
 every recognizable character from the  Harry Potter  universe along your journey. The game starts 
 off with a tutorial where you'll learn basic spells like wingardium leviosa (levitation) , reparo 
 (repair an object) , accio (pull an object toward you) , and depulso (push an object away) by helping 
 people fix broken dishes, pack their suitcases, and move furniture -- not exactly riveting stuff. 
 On the PC, PlayStation 2, PlayStation, 3, and Xbox 360, you cast spells by pressing a button to 
 point your wand and moving the right analog stick in a specific pattern. Rotating the stick clockwise 
 will cast reparo, pressing down twice will cast accio, and pushing forward twice will cast depulso. 
 You can also use the keyboard and mouse on the PC and this works fine. On the Wii, you'll hold 
 the remote vertically then tilt it forward to cast depulso. To perform wingardium leviosa, you'll 
 raise both the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk to lift the object then move the controllers around to 
 maneuver the object. This works surprisingly well, and it makes it feel as if you are actually 
 casting spells, which goes a long way toward making the game more enjoyable. The PS3 does use the 
 Sixaxis' motion controls, but tilting and twisting the controller as you hold it in your lap doesn't 
 add much to the experience.  

  Later in the game, you'll learn combat spells. These are cast in the same way as noncombat spells 
 and mostly use the same patterns. But there will only be a few instances where you'll need to perform 
 these combat spells because there's hardly any dueling in the game. This is probably a good thing 
 because the combat isn't very good, and it's tough to tell if you're actually hitting someone. 
 Even during the last fight, you just stand there casting the same spell over, waiting for a cutscene 
 to signify the end of the battle.  

  Once you've learned some basic spells, it's off to Hogwarts, which is faithfully re-created in 
 a game for the first time. The Hogwarts campus is absolutely huge, which is both a blessing and 
 a curse. Fans should really get a kick out of seeing the grand staircase in motion and candles 
 floating above the tables in the great hall, as well as sneaking into Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. 
 But traversing back and forth across such a large area quickly becomes tiresome. Once you find 
 the proper passwords, you can use the passages behind paintings as shortcuts, but they don't cut 
 that much time off the journey. Another problem is the in-game navigation system. You're given 
 a map that lists all of the different areas on campus, as well as the location of each person you 
 need to find. Once you've highlighted the person or place you're looking for, footprints will appear 
 on the ground to lead the way. Unfortunately, the footprints are black, so they're difficult to 
 see; they don't appear far enough in front of you, so you're constantly forced to stop to wait 
 for them to appear; and the camera will often switch angle midstride, so you don't know which way 
 you're facing.  

           Exploring Hogwarts is interestingfor a while.      

  You've got a huge campus and healthy number of spells at your disposal, so you'll no doubt be doing 
 all sorts of awesome things in incredible, mystical places, right? No. You spend most of the game 
 running around trying to inform everyone as to the whereabouts of the room of requirement. You'll 
 pick a character on the map, follow the footprints, and then tell people about the meeting place. 
 In almost every single case, they'll have a reason for why they can't go. Of course, you've got 
 to help them. This means you'll run all over Hogwarts collecting items, moving benches, fixing 
 things, and helping people with their homework. This is how you spend the entire game. It's literally 
 one fetch quest after another. Being able to pick the quest you want gives the illusion that you've 
 got the freedom to do what you want, but the game is extremely linear in that there's only one 
 way to accomplish any given objective. And sometimes you'll be performing the same exact task over 
 again, such as when you're helping to disable the school's intercom by moving benches then pouring 
 a potion into the speakers. You do this, not once, not twice, but five or six times; each time 
 in a different room.  

  Performing one menial task after another would be bad enough on its own, but other issues conspire 
 to make it worse. The game does a decent job of showing you where people and places are, but once 
 you've met with someone, you're quite often on your own when it comes to figuring out how to help 
 him or her. For example, at one point in the game, you must help a kid find five talking gargoyles. 
 Now, you've encountered several talking gargoyles to this point, but for some reason, you can't 
 tell the kid this and you must find the gargoyles again. Not only are you doing something you've 
 already done, but the map doesn't show you where these gargoyles are, so you're forced to scour 
 the entire campus in an effort to locate them.  

  When you're not playing the role of messenger boy, you'll spend much of your time cleaning up Hogwarts 
 by putting statues, paintings, and urns back together. You can also search behind curtains for 
 giant chess pieces, move blocks to find hidden plaques, light torches, and even sweep floors. These 
 tasks are actually pleasant diversions for a short while, and you can unlock extras by performing 
 them. But the tasks speak poorly for the game as a whole when sweeping the floor is a highlight. 
 Another way to pass the time is to play chess, exploding snap, and gobstones. Gobstones (think 
 marbles) and exploding snap (pick out matching pairs of cards) are simple but fun. Chess plays 
 similar to Battle Chess and is actually quite engaging -- if you've played chess before. The game 
 will show you the moves that each piece can make, but there's no tutorial mode, which may leave 
 many younger players clueless.  

           Even though EA scanned the actors' noggins, the characters still look a bit off.      
 

  Visually, Order of the Phoenix is all over the place. Many areas of Hogwarts, such as the grand 
 staircase or great hall, look spectacular and are very detailed. However, many of the hallways 
 look the same and are largely empty. Combat spells look really cool when you cast them, but there 
 are so few duels that you'll rarely get to enjoy seeing the spells in action. At first glance, 
 character models look just like their movie counterparts and are quite nice. But once you see them 
 in motion, you'll notice that they all look kind of like zombies. Things are even worse in the 
 cutscenes that utilize the in-game engine. Characters stare blankly off into the distance, they 
 face the wrong way, their mouths often don't move when they talk, and they'll appear then disappear 
 from view for no apparent reason. The PS3, 360, and PC versions look the best. Other than lower 
 quality in-game cutscenes and some nasty aliasing, the PS2 and Wii versions hold their own, though 
 the PS2's frame rate is pretty iffy at times. Having the actors from the films voice their characters 
 in the game goes a long way toward immersing you in the experience, even with the shoddy cutscenes 
 and script. The familiar musical score is here and suits the game perfectly, which kind of makes 
 you wonder why it was used so little.  

  It's hard to imagine that the video game version of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix will 
 appeal to anyone. Older fans of Harry Potter will enjoy exploring Hogwarts for a while, but they'll 
 soon be bored to tears by the low level of difficulty and the tedious objectives. The younger set 
 will also get a kick out of seeing the sights and will appreciate the forgiving difficulty, as 
 well as the simplicity of the tasks at hand. But they'll quickly grow tired of using their favorite 
 character to perform a seemingly endless parade of chores. If being the most famous wizard in the 
 world were this boring, there wouldn't have been more than one book.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (54 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  EA UK develops this game, which is based on the movie and the book.
  
  While most problems from the previous installments are repaired, there is a whole list of new problems 
 that keep this game down. This is the first Harry Potter to feature all of Hogwarts, it is a really 
 great accomplishment by EA to create the whole school for this game. Another positive is the free-roam 
 added to the game, you can go anywhere in the school, which is cool. But those are the only two 
 good things about this game.
  
  One of the main problems with this game is lack of gameplay for such a huge environment like Hogwarts. 
 Most of the gameplay is has you cleaning or repairing things, which gets a little annoying and 
 boring. The game has a great control scheme and has a lot of spells, but with lack of action in 
 the game, a lot of those spells you don't even use after you learn them, which is a shame.
  
  Another problem is walking around Hogwarts on missions, some of these missions take forever 
 to finish because the school is big and you can only walk and run throughout the game and a lot 
 of the missions require you to go back from where you started, which gets a little irritating .
 
  
  The voice acting is nice, many of the actors return to play their roles for this game and really 
 do a great job.
  
  The game is mostly based on puzzles and things like that, there are some elements from the movie 
 and the book, which they incorporate into the game. One of my faves was the loudspeakers that Umbridge 
 set up.
  
  The action really doesn't kick in until towards the end when you play as Dumbledore and that scene 
 is short and rather easy to get through.
  
  Overall, a concept that is really good, and I would like to see in later installments. However, 
 improvements on missions and action is sorely needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randhill932
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  This fifth game of Harry Potter series brings whole Hogwart to your discovery; and to do so, you 
 are given a plenty of spells which will help you move objects, cast some fires and some more other 
 stuffs. And well, that's all I can find good with this game. Duelling is quite easy and not that 
 much challenging, and Hogwart it self seems to lost some part of it (Like stuffs in liblary, where 
 is the libralian? And where are all of those chairs?)
  The graphic is quite good but when students are speaking, you can hardly see any emotion in their 
 face while their voice is trying to describe anger, happiness..... but the fact that the real actors 
 in movie play game character is nice and all of their voice have good vocal energy especially Cho 
 (But once again, the face disappointed me)
  Well, if you can live with the graphic, you should look about the camera and the control. The point 
 is, you can't control your camera and all of your discovery you must find to complete the game 
 is through that stupid camera always turn or zoom in, zoom out right when you don't want to. Control 
 is a real disappointment too. If you don't have a good mouse, it will hardly recognise your spell 
 casting (I got this problem when I play with my own mouse; then I switched to my dad's wireless 
 mouse and things seem to be better) and moving, sometimes Harry or any other controllable characters 
 will ignore your order and just stand there doing nothing. Which will make you mad after some time.
 
  Harry Potter 5 have a lot of missions but many of those missions are running around the castle, 
 from this wing to that wing to find some medicine, book for some people. Sometimes it also give 
 player some nice mission like fetch the owl for Cho or some challenging one - Running around all 
 of the catsle to find 5 talking gargoyle for Dean or find 5 stuffs that Luna lost but overall, 
 the game did some good work in this mission part
  Finally, Hogwart. In the castle, there are many secrets to find but nearly all of them are just 
 burning some torch, moving armor, fixing broken armor or a goblet, moving pictures or chairs around 
 to put it in certain point. Some of them are intresting like finding that golden egg Harry used 
 in Book 4 and toss it in the water to hear it. And after all of those discoveries, Mertyle will 
 appear (You can; t help it) and say that there is something new in the secret room which is some 
 game developing videoclips (If you are a fan of Rupert Grint, Emma Watson or any other Harry Potter 
 actors/actress, this is the part you love most) talking about what they feel.....
  So, this is a good game if you want to try for something new, to walk around the Hogwart and finding 
 some secrets and stuff but not for the person who want a game which they can enjoy and actually 
 play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vunkster
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter games have never been hard, same goes for this game. But why this game sucks is it 
 doesnt have anything good left in it. ALL the fun parts from previous games have been removed.
 
  There is no platform jumping, no lifebar, no magic, no fun, only dumb and boring quests that take 
 u running around a big schoolhouse (which u can explore any time u want) over and over again. 
 
  The game also has a few minigames and they also suck. The graphics have of course evolved but 
 they are still nothing special. The two most important thing u do in this game are only wand battles 
 and running around. In wand battles, u need to do certain gestures with ur right analog stick/mouse 
 to cast certain spells at enemies. We all know that running around is boring, that makes already 
 half of the game suck, but the wand battles are also stupid, cause it doesnt matter how fast u 
 move ur right analog stick/mouse, cause even if u lose , u still progress in game. Now WTF is up 
 with that???
  This game is only appealing to fans, and believe me, they are the only one hwo will ever say that 
 this game is the best Harry Potter game ever, just cause this game has more movie likenesses and 
 references to the Harry Potter books and movies.
  Overall the gameplay is just trash and all the magic from previous games have been lost. I cannot 
 give this game more than a 3.0. Only hardcore Harry Potter fans will find this game fun. People 
 hwo loved Harry Potter games for theyre great gameplay, DONT BUY THIS GAME. I sure hope the sixth 
 game wont be a letdown like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all, a word of caution. This is not a spoiler free review. But again, I assume anyone 
 who will buy this game has read the book, or at least seen the movie. Thus you are already familiar 
 with the characters and plot of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. With this assumption, 
 I can add that this game has nothing for people who are not HP fans, period. If you are a fan, 
 and willing to ignore some gameplay issues, you will enjoy this game. This is the first game to 
 feature a freely explorable Hogwarts with utmost detail. You can go to the boat house, owlery, 
 Hagrid's hut, all the floors, all the classrooms, and many other recognizable foundations like 
 the hanging bridge and the grand staircase have been faithfully recreated using a decent graphics 
 engine. With full details and high resolutions, the game looks better than any previous HP title. 
 Yes, the game doesn't give you many challenging tasks, and most of it involves going from point 
 A to B and some trivial spell casting. But instead of rushing to finish the game, you should take 
 your time in exploring Hogwarts to be able to enjoy the game. If you see a broken artifact, pause 
 and "reparo" it. If you see a bookcase, cast accio on it. The game lets you cast many trademark 
 spells like wingardium leviosa, reparo, depulso, accio, incendio, etc. and also a wide array of 
 combat spells are available, like stupefy, petrificus totalus, levicorpus, protego, etc. However, 
 it is very unfortunate that there are very few dueling opportunities in the game. Being able to 
 indulge in duels with random Slytherin students would have been damn fun. You can actually cast 
 a spell or two to some students, but most of them will simply run away instead of fighting back.
 
  
  As I already mentioned, graphics is the best part of the game. Exploring the whole castle is a 
 rewarding experience; with many hidden tasks to complete and experience points to gather. The experience 
 points unlock some bonus stuff; i. e. video clips describing the game development with interviews 
 of the real movie casts like Emma Watson as Hermione and Natalie Tena as Tonks. Those are really 
 cool and a good treat for the fans. Also, you get to see all the familiar faces from Hogwarts. 
 
  
  However, apart from exploring and random spell casting, the core game is very linear and disappointingly 
 repetitive. Harry has to do many things which he never did in the books or the movie, like climbing 
 up the towers to bring Colin's camera down. Also, it is often difficult to understand what to do 
 next, or how to perform the current task. The game acts like an adventure game, but does not provide 
 many hints. So trial and error or gameguides is the way to go. For the first time, we feel that 
 the guys who made the game actually went through the book, as we see some clever references to 
 past events within the dialogues. Still, the game often pokes fun at the movies by creating situations 
 or dialogues that would never happen in the HP universe. As an example, Voldemort sends flying 
 chairs at Dumbledore, and Dumbledore keeps uttering "the Aurors will be here soon"-this is a very 
 funny situation, and it didn't make me happy. 
  
  Being a die hard HP fan, I lived through the game. I am using living through because I am highly 
 doubtful how many people can actually have the patience to finish the game like I did. The control 
 scheme is horrible. I played the PC version, and it is very difficult to make Harry cast the right 
 spell towards the right object or the person. When there are multiple castable objects in vision, 
 Harry simply becomes adamant and keeps on casting on the object of his choice, no matter how bad 
 you want him to cast at something else. This resulted in me getting "poor" in charms, because I 
 simply could not change the target. A target locking system should have been there. Also, the PC 
 version does not acknowledge gamepads and you are forced to strain your hands by using the mouse 
 to cast spells and the WASD plus shift key to navigate. You must almost always keep the shift key 
 pressed, so that Harry can run. Walking is terribly slow, and you have to walk/run around the castle 
 a lot. Hearing the same, boring dialogues from the portraits and running through the same alleys 
 gets really boring; especially after you have discovered most hidden objects. While moving, the 
 camera often changes to awkward angles, and you simply can't go places you intend to go with ease.
 
  
  As a whole, this is the best looking HP game. But the gameplay is a bit disappointing. As there 
 are not many duels and the tasks are repetitive stuff like fetching people and moving objects. 
 However, that is how all HP games have been built till now, and still they sold. So I don't think 
 EA had many reasons to deviate. But again, if they want to make a game which would appeal to HP 
 fans and gamers in general, they have to make it more challenging and interesting. Having all spells 
 available from the beginning, duels, multiple characters (you can only play with Harry here, and 
 you get Sirius and Dumbledore for a total of less than 5 minutes) , higher level of references to 
 the books and the movies and quidditch would be great additions. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanathome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The game allows average Muggles (non-magic folk) to roam Hogwarts, eat in the Great Hall, fly on 
 Thestrals, and use spells all in the comfort of our chairs. However, if you want to get the full 
 "magical" experience, I'd suggest getting the version MADE for this game: the Wii version. ;)
 
  
  "Order of the Phoenix" starts off with a quick montage of the "Dementor" scene from the movie. 
 Then, it gives you a quick, overview of the controls at Sirius' mother's house. After that, your 
 free to roam Hogwarts until your hearts content. Or until you finish helping out your classmates.
 
  
  The "challenges" are not hard at all. Even the chess games are elementary! :) So, don't buy this 
 game because of the challenges and activities that await you... play it for the thrill of walking 
 around Hogwarts! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osahong
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  EA has finally got part of the game right - the environment. In previous ones, Hogwarts was way 
 too small to be convincing, and half of it was inaccessible anyway. Now Hogwarts is large and great 
 to explore. Another great thing is that there are no load times between areas which was intensely 
 frustrating before. 
  
  There are several mini-games to take part in and things to find. Sure, some of it is a little tedious 
 and chore-like (sweeping the courtyards for example) but it does encourage you to roam and in turn 
 levels up your spells.
  
  Spell-casting is much more interesting in Phoenix. You have to gesture with your mouse to create 
 certain spells. This requires much more thought than just pointing and clicking.
  
  The huge let down for me was the spell challenges. These, and the non-replayable parts of the story, 
 were the crux of the previous games. I used to enjoy the puzzles and then having to replay the 
 challenges to find everything. Plus, this was often where you would encounter the main enemies 
 in the game like fire crabs and acromantula. Unfortunately these have been done away with completely. 
 The only class that remotely tests you is Charms where you regurgitate all the spells you've learnt. 
 Potions and Herbology do little more than test your levitation skills.
  
  The story is impossible to follow unless you know it backwards. Most of the game consists of you 
 having to find people to tell them things which is also disappointing. 
  
  Duelling is a little clumsy in that you must always be the aggressor (apart from a couple of scripted 
 portions of the game) . That doesn't seem like what Harry would do although it is fun;-)
  
  In conclusion, the game looks great and spellcasting is more interesting. However, it seems like 
 the background to a potentially greater game. Come on, EA. You can do better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoNsuRaL
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  The last harry potter game. Better than the others, because you can explore hogwarts the same as 
 seen on movies. And the character faces look so real. But there are so few spells. Only 6 attack spells,6 
 charms. Actually theres tousands of spells in Harry Potter books. There could be more spells. I hope 
 Half Blood Prince game will be better. Graphics are very good. Sounds are good too. The worst things 
 about the game are stupid, boring missions and mouse controls. You can only use patronus for 2 times. Thats 
 bad too. But exploring hogwarts, playing 'Wizard games' ,dueling are good features that increases 
 the time you spend for game. Its the best in series, but i cant say 'WOW! This game is so cool!'. Advice 
 to harry potter fans: If you like playing games, you can play this. If you dont like spending too 
 much time to games, dont play this! You will be bored! Specially the story is a little different from 
 the book and the movie. If you are looking for a very good harry potter game, you will have to wait 
 for the Half-Blood prince game.
  
  
  Graphics:8.0
  Sounds:7.5
  Gameplay:6.5
  Value:6.5
  Tilt:7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrypotter_fan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  hi, i am a big harry potter books , films , games and everything fan !!
  i played all the games that EA made and to be honest Ea is not that good ........ so here is the 
 review:
  
  first of i will mention the good things of this game :
  1) graphics may be the only thing good at this game i admit that EA got the graphics OK!!
  2) the 
 free roaming is great AT FIRST then you may become a little bored of it :S
         and that is all the good things i found :D
  now the bad things :
  1) the story is so 
 bad , you can never keep up with it unless u read the book
  2) cut scenes are not interesting i tell you , they are dull !!!
  3) the quests are very boring 
 and idiotic i didn't like them at all
  4) minigames are boring too....
  
  so not to make this too long :if you were a die hard harry potter fan buy it and enjoy 20% (GRAPHICS) 
 of the game and you will see that this is no harry potter thing : (
  
  if you were a gamer looking for platform adventures DON"T BUY !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalltowngirl_1
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  i like the game. i mean it isn't the best game EA has come up with but it isn't the worst. i like 
 the interaction with the the mouse and the wand and i like going in knowing that you can wander 
 the castle again! YAY! so thank you EA. i don't like the tasks you have to do to get the poeple 
 to get them to come to the DA. The game could be better but it is kinda addicting to play because 
 you just want to pass and there is almost always something to do and a lot of people to talk to 
 and iinteract with, the owl tests and stuff is kinda frustrating with the way he points his wand 
 and you can't really tell what he is pointing at so i didn't do so well with the tests. The herbology 
 is probally the easest test to pass. Harry potter Wii is the worst kind. It isn't interactive i 
 mean it doesn't go well with the remote and the sensor bar. I haave it for Ds and it is fun but 
 hard. Much easier than the pc and the wii but still delightfully difficult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  When first starting this game, it is mildly entertaining, learning how to cast spells and exploring 
 the castle. However as you continue playing this game very little excitement happens and you find 
 yourself sucked into doing chores around the castle. Also you become more and more frustrated with 
 the magic system as anything less than the most precise movement can cause a different spell to 
 happen or have Harry's arm randomly flopping in the air. It is also disappointing when you come 
 to a "huge wizard duel" and there is nothing exciting or epic that happens. However, I will say 
 that the series made a huge improvement in the over all look of the game making the scenery much 
 more pleasant to look at then previous games. And I will say that eventhough the chores are tedious, 
 if you have nothing else to do than they can be mildly entertaining and pass the time by quickly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  its not the best game and its not the worst magic system ive never seen a game like this in the 
 first game all you do is if you see a spell you click on it but graphics i don't like they look 
 like somthing out of a bad movie put into a bad game (which there not i loved the movie) . its kinda 
 hard but when you cant do somthing and you keep trying and trying the people like ron keep saying 
 the same thing over and over again "you can do it!" keep trying" "flip the blackborad" its so stupid 
 it does it over and over again its a broken record!!! over all its not gerat and its not bad but 
 its worth 30 seconds of fun buy it for a soda can or a bath tub of air but don't buy this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Matty
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Great game to begin with and Hogwarts looks impressive and some good Idea's but unfortunately they 
 are completed perfectly. And good sound of course :D Tho the game need some more feelings. Feeling 
 like that it's just isn't another computer-game but that u really are Harry Potter. A good idea 
 would be to make it like the second and third Harry Potter game for the PS2, because there's some 
 kinda feeling for instance that u go to class and live your life in the game just like Harry and 
 that was make's it good and the rewards should maybe not be stuff from the movie but thing's that 
 u are able to use doing the game. else it's a very nice game with some good idea's for instance 
 the way u cast spells and stuff because it make u feel like u are the one how makes the magic :P 
 So thumbs up for that :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocky_balboa_07
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  the main drawback of the game is itz TOO MUCH EASY.... thr is not 1 challenging action event... i. e 
 u just can't lose...
  Another bad thing is, on the box of the game it was written that u can play being serius black 
 and albus dumbledore.. but it was really only for 5 minutes or so...
  in the GOBLET OF FIRE version of the game we could play wid ron and hermione at least.. but here 
 u can't even play wid them also.
  
  the new mode of MOVING THE MOUSE controls r really awesome, it really gives u da feeling dat u r 
 really performing a spell wid ur phoenix feathered wand..
  The music of this game is astounding... chocolate for ears.. it really gives u a nostalgic feeling 
 of the previous POTTER interactive versions.
  for true gamers dis game may b a disappointment but for true n avid POTTER fans this game is really 
 a TREAT..
  
  THANKS EA.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Come on gamespot, only 5?? This is bulls**t it's the best game in the series, graphics aren't gears 
 of war or resistance, bioshock and others but they are good, especially the backgrounds. Have to 
 admit, the characters look sloppy the most time but it's still a good game. I have to admit that 
 it's very easy, for me at least. I finished 83% in a day and a half wtf. The tasks are fun indeed 
 but exploring Hogwarts after completing them gets boring. Other thing I have to agree with Game 
 Spot is it's story: truely weak. If I hadn't seen the movie I wouldn't have understanded the game. 
 Anyway that shouldn't matter so much that it should receive only 5. I mean it's still got good 
 graphics and it's very fun while it lasts :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I was once asked whether or not I believe in the concept of binary logic, where something is either 
 one or zero, black or white, or in the case of games, good or crap I answered saying that life 
 is too colourful to only consider two colours. I am telling you all this small pearl of wisdom 
 because it applies greatly to this Harry Potter game. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix 
 is a game based on the upcoming Harry Potter movie (by the time you read this, it would be the 
 just released Harry Potter movie) . The story follows Harry Potter and his wizarding friends as 
 they fight against the evil that has started growing after the return of Lord Voldermort at the 
 end of the previous book/game/movie. The game is mainly set in Hogwarts School of magic and the 
 surrounding area. The player takes control of Harry for most of the game and guides him through 
 the many challenges that he faces throughout his adventures. The school itself is massive. It can 
 take anywhere between five to ten minutes to run from one side of it to the next and when you consider 
 that every corridor and hallway in the game includes some side quest to perform, the player can 
 spend hours just running around doing things completely unrelated to the main story arch. Dont 
 get me wrong, this game doesnt offer quest content in the way oblivion offered it but it does 
 offer many small side quests to keep you busy.
  For every quest you complete, whether it be during the main story or a side quest you decided to 
 undertake, you are rewarded with Discovery Points. These points then allow you to unlock extra 
 content such as actor interviews which can be viewed in the Room of Rewards. This can create a 
 bit of an addiction which might cause players to concentrate on collecting these points rather 
 than just playing the game and enjoying it. But they do add to the longevity of the game seeing 
 as most fans will want to unlock all of the content.
  The next interesting point of the game is how it handles spell casting. The player is required 
 to move Harrys wand in a particular way to cast a spell by using a mouse pattern to copy the 
 wand movement. This really involves the player and also puts the player in Harrys shoes as both 
 the player and Harry learn the different spells.
  So far you might assume that Harry Potter sits squarely in the Good region of the binary scale, 
 but for that you are greatly mistaken. Even though it has a few fun moments, Harry Potter is a 
 game for either a fan of the books and movies or a young gamer. The simple approach to most things 
 in the game tends to discourage more seasoned gamers and some sections are just simply annoying. 
 The game almost always requires the player to run from one side of the school to the other and 
 the time spent travelling between locations on foot ends up taking longer than the task you are 
 required to perform there. Also most side quests end up being a one-spell quickie that become too 
 repetitive to even justify the energy to move the mouse. The games graphics are an improvement 
 over the previous game and the characters faces are nicely detailed, but then again, its still 
 a far cry from Crysis (no pun intended) . This is rather annoying because the textures in the game 
 look rather dull, even on the highest settings and at times it is hard to believe that you are 
 running the game on max.
  Im sure that at this point, you are all assuming that Harry Potters new outing is squarely in 
 the middle of the crap region of the scale. This is the point where you all jump back up to the 
 top of the review and reread my opening paragraph and this is the point where you all go: Oh, 
 thats what he meant
  Harry Potter is the sum of two evils. A great idea mixed with mediocre standards. Is Harry Potter 
 a good game? No, is it a bad one? No again. So I guess you can say its a gray game. If you are 
 a fan there are hours of fun to be had with this title, if youre a gamer at heart then Harry might 
 not be able to give you the magic you require. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yskchaitanya
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Harry potter has been somewhat of a new era in the world of books... but sadly it does not make 
 any breakthrough in the gaming industry!!!
  The harry potter games have always been aimed at the younger audience but you would expect the 
 game developers to take this game to a newer level with this latest installment from the harry 
 potter franchise!!! such is not the case... but before pointing out the negative points... here are 
 some reasons why you should let your siblings have a go at it!!!
  
  Well to start of with the game is beautifully re-created with good visuals and art.
  also the 
 vast castle rooms and grounds are well laid out... but character modelling somewhat leaves a liitle 
 to be desired!!!
  Dont get me wrong... you can recognise all the main characters from the movie but they still look 
 like and ACT like dummies!!!
  The music is fairly decent and well theres the voice acting which has to be appreciated as well... the 
 movie stars have given their voices for the game and they have done a good job of it!!!
  Then, there is the new spell casting technique which makes you move your mouse in different ways 
 to cast different spells... but this turns out to be a bit of a pain as sometimes no spells erupt 
 from your wand in a duel... and well then it turns nasty!!!
  
  Now to the bad:
  
  The game is very linear... unless you want to just loaf around in the castle...
  theres not much 
 to do but follow the storyline...
  the castle exploring is really, really tedious and so is the part where you have to go from one 
 part of the castle to another!!!
  you run so much from here to there aimlessly that you start feeling sorry for harry!!!
  Also, the 
 most important thing is the lack of depth in the game and the really frustrating non-cooperation 
 of harry's friends to do anything for him until and unless he does their homework or collecting 
 gobstones or all that rot!!!
  This is not the sort of thing you would be doing jus to get on with the game...
  for crying out 
 loud... where is the open-ended gameplay???
  
  Not to forget is the REALLY SHORT gameplay that u get... i finished this game in like 3 hours or 
 less!!!
  
  You start the game and within minutes you are already in the last level...
  
  This is one EA franchise which is going down the drain... they seem to be concentrating on introducing 
 the stars of the movie into the game... a good move but at the end of the day any gamer would like 
 to have a solid storyline and a good control system... something which would involve him into the 
 game and maybe forget about his girlfriend for a few hours!!!
  
  Bottom line: STEER CLEAR OF THIS GAME UNLESS YOU ARE YOUNGER THAN 12 YEARS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akarikk
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I agree whit those that say it's a bad game, really a shame, but no one had said about the control, 
 i mean when i move harry or any other character, i can't control it fine, like in the other games, 
 i press a direction and he/she walks alone for a while, i can't do sharp turns or things like that.
 
  
  then after read some critcs, and no one says anything about it, I'm thinking is just me.
  
 
  about the game graphics are bad, they get better changing the configuration, but not a lot.
  
  I must say Sorry Harry your books rocks, you games are lame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyhugger79
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  First impression, quite good compare to the past HARRY POTTER game series delivered for PC/Consoles. 
 You can navigate the entire Hogwarts, graphics are well-improved, and sort of delivering the effects. 
 There is now an option to configure the game details unlike the others. Unfortunately, game controls 
 still limited. Hoping that more customized configurations are applicable to the game (especially 
 the controls!) . Game angles are bad, it is too difficult to determine the LEFT and the UP direction. 
 Roaming is one of the best offer of the game. Which means if you don't want to follow some directions 
 to the game, you can do what you want. Flexible indeed... No limitations. The setup seems good... 
 But I should give a try on how the story goes. I only spent an hour just to know about this game. 
 Maybe an analog gamepad will make it more easier to navigate. Hoping on the next HARRY POTTER GAME 
 will be more focus on the storyline. Not just a game related to the movie, but a story that anyone 
 can understand what it tells... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sackville
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  The tasks were fine. I didn't get tired of running around Hogwarts and exploring. It was fun to 
 play the game and then see the courtyards and rooms on the movie. It seemed very accurate.
  
  The highlight was the dueling!! There just aren't many duels in the game. Not many duels needed 
 to finish the game. I would like to have seen a duel room to practice one on one.
  
  22 characters gave their voices to the video game, which was great. Snape is my favorite but his 
 voice was someone else. That was annoying. The bonus room with cast interviews was a blast.
  
  It seems like I finished this game way too quickly. I did feel like this was a great way to 
 live the life of Harry Potter and become a student at Hogwarts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persiankurosh
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  The game has some problems, For example its gameplay and music. If you dont like Harry Potters 
 books, you will not like this game but if you were spending in Hogwarts so long in your dreams, 
 you will enjoy it.
  The first thing that I should mention is its cinematic form. Like resident Evil 2 and King Kong, 
 there is no health bar, score and everything that shows your are playing a video game. In this 
 point, it is a good experience for gamers. In phase of graphic the game has no problem. Hogwarts, 
 like what we expect, is full of details and corners. And the faces of the characters design with 
 rigor.
  Gameplay is something that shows a game is good or bad. Order of phoenix has a lot of problems 
 in gameplay.
  The first part of the game that continue until Christmas, spend in doing missions for others and 
 organizing the Dumbledores army. Sometimes Ginny ask for your help and sometimes you must help 
 professor Mac Gonagall in arranging the first year students. Meantime, you learn basic magic. For 
 making them more powerful you must find secret ways so you will find more scores.
  The game has a new way for spelling magic. For PC version you must move the mouse in especial pattern 
 so Harry moves his wand and spell. This method is a little annoying.
  The seven floor structure of Hogwarts is very wide that you can easily get lost in it. Fortunately 
 you have Marauder map and you could find where you are and where to go. After selecting your task, 
 a set of footprints will guide you. In the second part you see more scenes of the film and the 
 story become more exciting.
  At the end I should say that Order of phoenix is the best in Harry Potters games but its not a 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  OK to start with, this is by far the best game in the series. Obviously that doesn't automatically 
 make it good though. This game has potential, definitely, and could have been a really fun adventure 
 but for one thing: that damn camera angle. The spell system is absolutely fantastic - using mouse 
 movements to cast - and it really makes you feel like you're having a proper input into the game 
 as it has replaced the old system whereby you would click and it would simply cast the correct 
 spell for you. The graphics aren't bad, although they could do with a little but of touching up 
 in places; and the sound is very good. What the game lacks most, in my mind, is a bit of depth 
 - just things like slightly longer cutscenes from, say, the beginning of the film rather than skipping 
 all of that and diving straight in. Having said that, the WORST thing about the game is definitely, 
 indisputably the horrific, obscure, absurd camera angle. I have to put so much stress on that because 
 i believe it is the sole element that completely ruins the entire game. Why not keep it as third 
 person, always directly behind the player character?!?! Then you could use w, a, s, d to move about 
 and the mouse to target and cast spells. Why why why why why did they have to change it?!?!? It's 
 just so bad and such a pain when running around because one minute you can be holding down 'w' 
 and running straight forward and the next, still just holding 'w', have taken a sharp left and 
 fallen off the 7th floor staircase to your death!!
  
  All in all though this is a good game which is not worth paying &pound;30 for but is fun nonetheless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Member
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  I have not played all the other titles in the Harry Potter series, but I have played enough movie-based 
 games to be skeptical to anything put onto the market. Harry Potter and the order of the Phoenix 
 has it&amp;#8217; s definitive bright point but also suffer from a poorly developed story that a 
 quick time-to-market often dictates.
  
  If the developers were given time to work more on keeping the game coherent, letting us know all 
 the characters and making us feel like we were actually part of a story the game would have been 
 great.
  
  First of all, the developers have made a very good job with the Hogwarts School and surrounding 
 grounds. It is big and there is much to explore, most parts you will go through as part of the 
 storyline. But at the same time I could not help but get tired of all the running around. It feels 
 like most of the time you don&amp;#8217; t actually do anything; you&amp;#8217; re just on your way 
 somewhere.
  
  The story is the weakest part of the game. Every now and then a cut-scene comes along and plays 
 out a scene to make the plot move ahead. But these cut-scenes contain people that are not introduced 
 to the player and they are too short to give any real meaning. If I hadn&amp;#8217; t read the book 
 already I wouldn&amp;#8217; t have understood much of anything.
  
  The producers also made a reward-system for the players to explore as much of the elaborate school 
 as possible. The rewards start out interesting with dvd-like behind the scenes clips with the actual 
 actors. But after four or five of these clips the producers obviously couldn&amp;#8217; t be bothered 
 with giving the players value for their money anymore, so they just dish out a bunch of concept 
 art and stills from the movie. Very disappointing.
  
  In cocnclusion, I would say that Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is a game that mostly 
 appeals to a younger audience of gamers with the patience to run around Hogwarts for hours. It 
 could have been much better if the storyline had been developed further, but all in all it&amp;#8217; s 
 a mildly disappointing movie-based game as we have come to know them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharang_3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  ok so harry potter and the order of phoenix. the game was expected to be gr8 as always and as usual 
 they have diappointed. the first and most disastrous glitch is the pathetic caamera. i dont understand 
 why ea is using this return of the king camera mode. the camera position in first three games was 
 so gud so what was the need to alter it?? its pretty confusing at places and makes casting spells 
 too tough.
  ya well the spells ,the new spell system is fantastic and better that it predecessors. but again 
 due to the pathetic camera angle it goes all in vain and is also a bit confusing at times. u wanna 
 cast at something and it aims at the other. annoying.
  well now the graphics, ya they are ok stuff. not pretty good. the castle is gr8 but the human characters 
 lack that perfection. the cutscenes are brilliant AND I FEEL IT IS THE BEST THING IN THE GAME. 
 sound is gud and plays well.
  the gameplay is too short and there could have been stuff which ea wasted in cutscenes ( like when 
 umbrige is taken to centaurs, or harry fighting with death eaters) it is too yeah too much easy 
 and rather stupid (occumelency its like child play and all the mini quest are boring and annoying 
 no real magic there. the gud thing is that the castle is greater than ever and it looks like some 
 real hogwarts but there not much to do so u might also ignore just running and discovering it.
 
  EA improved some aspects of the franchise but completely destroyed the others. it could have been 
 loads better but ea has to spoil are beloved harry's name. it was the worst game in series and 
 i advise to miss it cause itll be a waste of money as well it will arouse anger against harry potter. 
 the book also lacked some action ofcourse and there was not much that could be put into this stuff 
 but whatever ea put that was much less than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Order of the Phoenix has brought back the free roam elements that were missing from Goblet of Fire 
 and now lets you roam around Hogwarts, which is fully re-created to include every room and corridor 
 that you have seen in the film. That's all very well, but when the gameplay is mind-numbingly boring 
 and repetitive, it makes you wonder why they bothered.
  
  You control all of the game as Harry (excluding the few minutes you play as Fred and George, Sirius 
 and Dumbledore) and Ron and Hermione are just your sidekicks which follow you around and get in 
 your way. As you go around Hogwarts you will encounter more students going about their daily routine 
 (mainly giving Harry a bad reputation) , which adds to the more people who can get in your way and 
 sometimes seem to do it on purpose.
  
  The controls are configurable, but using the mouse to casts spells feels the most satisfying. To 
 cast a spell you hold down the left button and move it either up, down, left to right and so on. 
 You do the same thing in when in combat, except you hold down the right mouse button. However, 
 controlling Harry is a real pain as he walks really slowly, causing you to hold down shift the 
 whole time to make him run, which makes you wonder why shift wasn't just used for walking. If the 
 camera has a sudden change of position, the key you were holding to move Harry in a certain direction 
 suddenly makes Harry move in another direction, which is frustrating. There are also times where 
 Harry has to slide along ledges, in which he moves extremely slowly on.
  
  So, let's go fight people, cast loads of exciting spells in exciting places and have really great 
 fun! Or not. You press TAB to bring up the Marauders Map where you have to select someone to find 
 and then do a task for them. This is mainly used for finding members for the DA, which takes up 
 a big chunk of the game. What do you do when you find these people? Do tasks for them. They will 
 have you swamping out courtyards, tipping potions into speakers (six times!) , retrieving their 
 cameras, finding Gargoyles or anything else like that. It may sound fun written down, but when 
 you are playing it you will soon grow tired of the lack of excitement and how repetitive the game 
 is coming. The only time you engage in combat (it's rare) , it is boring and makes you want it to 
 be over quickly.
  
  As you are now able to free roam around Hogwarts, it is superb at first to be in the places you 
 saw in the films or imagined in the books, however you will soon have visited those places countless 
 times and you will be wishing you didn't have to do all this running about. You can also unlock 
 classrooms by doing tasks for the teachers, which although mentally rewarding, offers nothing new 
 to the gameplay.
  
  You can earn points throughout the game by repairing statues, discovering trophies, putting paintings 
 back on the wall and such. At a certain amount of points you will unlock rewards which can be found 
 in a special room. The rewards are actually really good and a highlight - they are interviews with 
 the makers of the game and the cast of Harry Potter, presented in a nice Daily Prophet (newspaper) 
 style.
  
  There are cutscenes during the game which hold potential, but are put together really poorly. The 
 voices don't match the movements of the mouth and some people in the cutscenes will just be standing 
 there and not doing anything at all. There are also cutscenes for parts of the game you may have 
 been looking forward to playing (flying to the Ministry of Magic, for instance) . It's a shame really, 
 because if some more time, effort and thought had been put into them they would have been a nice 
 touch.
  
  The sound for this game is one of the good things. The original soundtrack has been used, and it 
 makes you feel at Hogwarts when you hear other students talking or owls hooting in the distance. 
 Quite a few of the original cast from the films have been used, and it's just a shame they couldn't 
 use all of them.
  
  Graphically the game is strange. In some places you will be amazed by the detail that has gone 
 into it, but you will mostly be put out by the poorly detailed characters and their clunky movements. 
 It seems the developers got bored halfway through and decided to quickly make some textures and 
 animations to get the job done quickly, especially when characters start vanishing for no apparent 
 reason.
  
  To sum up, this game feels as if you are just doing chores for the students and not immersing in 
 any magic or action at all. As I'm a big Harry Potter fan, this game is a real disappointment for 
 anyone of any age. We can only hope that the Half Blood Prince game will turn out better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatredalper
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good for the other games, but I must ask why the game is short. Nearly all events 
 is happening by video. Why ?Why EA makes important events by v&amp;#305; deo. I say to EA please to 
 be careful other games. We wants to play all event and all important  
 eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeee eeee eeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeee eeee ee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeee  
 eeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeee eeeee eeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeee eeee e eeeee eee eeeeee eeee eeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeeeee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee ee 
 eeee e eeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremiguelmast
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Overall? A good game!
  Hogwarts is (finally!) a big castle wih hundreds of rooms, corridors and passadgeways!
  I like 
 the sounds of this game. I think the sound is the best in the series! I don't like the way we have 
 to control the characters and the camera is not always in the best position - prefered the way 
 we controlled the characers in the first 2 games! The gameplay really need some tuning up!
  GREAT idea the one of putting different mouse directions making different spells! Sometimes the 
 gamepley becomes boring though!
  Think u guys should all try it though i'm pretty sure it's not a game that will please everyone! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xotikouli
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I am a fun of HP series. i begin with the books before they were so much known. I continue with the 
 films and the games of course. I used to like all the previous Hp games. Each years graphics and 
 all were improved and has many thinks to do and discover. I think that the 3rd and 4th game were 
 the best so far. I was looking forward for the Order of Phoenix but i' am not completely satisfied. 
 I like the fact that there are mini quests and tasks, that the spells are not the same in one button 
 and that know we have to make the choice. But with the dueling thing you just fight, you don't 
 know when you win or no matter if you won or not the plot continues. I haven't finish the game yet, 
 but i have played 56% and i don't think i have many more to expect.
  But i have to admit that for most of the characters the resemblance is great. Also its clever that 
 they show small interviews with cast and crew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  While the previous Harry Potter games were mostly just excuses for EA to make money, the newest 
 in the series (Order of the Phoenix) truly rises to the quality of a game. It's not the greatest 
 thing ever, and its difficulty and length are extremely lacking, but the game gives enough charm 
 to hold you until the end. We probably all know the Potter story by now, but in short, Harry Potter 
 is some crazy wizard boy who survived a strike from the dark lord when he was young. He lived with 
 his horrible aunt and uncle for years until going off to Hogwarts Witchcraft and Wizardry school. 
 Each book/game/movie in the series follows one year of Harry's life at school, and this particular 
 game takes place in the 5th year. Harry is more hormonal and angry due to his age, and his confrontation 
 with the Dark Lord has finally hit a climax. With his mind on the Dark Lord, Harry is clouded and 
 accidentally reveals his magic to his cousin, Dudley, in public. This sends Dementors after him, 
 and nearly costs him the next year at school. Besides all this, the story is mostly about the kids 
 finding themselves in the world and becoming strong enough to hold their own. Even though this 
 description is pretty bad, the game itself has an absolutely horrible presentation value. The cut 
 scenes are shoddy, most of the acting is quite bad, and the story is completely shelfed for more 
 gameplay.
  While that isn't too bad, it is a let down. Regardless, the game uses Blueprints and duplicates 
 of movie sets to fully create the school in the movies. Everything is where it should be, and is 
 rendered in some very good detail. Small effects like leaves blowing in the wind and dust shifting 
 through the light in the air help create a realm of reality that parallels the surreal setting 
 of the books. Face scan technology is also used in the game, and this makes all the characters 
 nearly identical to their real life counterparts. Some of the details on the models aren't too 
 outstanding, but their faces give off enough expression to look realistic. Most of the actors in 
 the movies also voice their roles in the game, further bringing you into the Hogwarts World. Some 
 of the spell names are also recorded about 4-5 times to stop a repetitive broken record like sound 
 while casting. The NPC's have some dialog that sounds convincing, as if they were truly at school 
 and late for a class, though its not all written well.
  Down to the gameplay. While the previous games in the series used simple button presses to command 
 certain spells, this game requires that you input the exact movements of the spell with the right 
 analogue stick (or the arrow keys on PC) . This manifests a feeling of believability that you are 
 actually a wizard, and also makes some of the dull moments in the game more engaging. There is 
 combat with the spells, but it is very confusing and poorly made, so it won't grip you. The rest 
 of the game takes a non-linear approach and gives you a set of tasks to complete before progressing 
 in the story. You don't have to accomplish everything, and the game knows that, so it also throws 
 in discovery points to give you some incentive to explore the school. The quests you get from your 
 fellow students mostly fall into the fetch quest category, though they aren't exactly the same 
 and the use of magic makes them interesting. It's not always engaging, but the short length of 
 the game makes it worth playing through.
  WIth the discovery points, you unlock special features. They are almost all behind the scenes documentary 
 type movies, though there are also still frames from the movie sets and some trophies for completing 
 certain tasks. This all falls into achievements on the 360 version, and the points are extremely 
 generous, so you could easily gain 650 points without even trying.
  The only real problems with the game are the length and the very unexciting final battle, but otherwise 
 the game has a nice sandbox feel to it and finally captures the style of the books and films wonderfully. 
 I wouldn't recommend buying this game to people who dislike this genre or simply don't like Harry 
 Potter, but anyone else should give it a shot, you may be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alendaran
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The game was what I expected. I like how it follows the book. I find it really refreshing to play 
 a game where you are not trying to kill things all the time. I think that it may influence some 
 of the younger kids who only think about themselves that there is value in helping people. I really 
 like the visuals. I have the PC version. I am playing it on a 19 widescreen monitor, and it is 
 fairly immersive. The music is wonderful, it really adds to the gameplay. The unfortunate part 
 of this game, is there is really no replay ability. Once you are done, you are done. Game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdunmer1018
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  First of all, I must applaud Electronic Arts on making a good PC version of a multi-console game. 
 If anyone else played the first one or two Potter games for PC, you'll likely remember the repetitive 
 platforming and linear gameplay, unless you actually succeeded in attempts to forget about the 
 game completely... 'Order of the Phoenix' fixes those problems. Unlike it's predecessors, it gives 
 you freedom over an incredibly faithful recreation of Hogwarts Castle as seen in the films and 
 as written in the books, by far the most accurate of any games so far. It helps very much that 
 EA collaborated with Warner Brothers and the crew behind the film, and it's very evident in the 
 details visible in every chamber and corridor of the castle, as well as the voices of 22 of the 
 original cast members. For once the castle looks and feels exactly as it did in the movies, as 
 opposed to just a generic licensed game. Before I go into the specifics of the review, I must point 
 out one minor issue: Though this likely won't affect everyone, when I first installed the game 
 and tried playing it, I was presented with a screen saying that 'a required security module could 
 not be activated. (7001) ' After a quick search online, I found the solution. To remedy this, you 
 must go in the start menu and select 'Run...' Type 'regedit' to access your computer's registry. 
 Note that it is critical when editing registry entries to back them up by exporting them before 
 deletion. Once in Regedit, go to  and deleted ALL binary 
 registry entries (remember to back them up!) . After a quick restart the game should be up and running; 
 remember that this should NOT happen to everyone. Anyway, on to the review...
  
  GAMEPLAY: 7
  The gameplay is wonderful in that it makes you feel as if you are casting the spells. 
 The mouse is used to control the wand and different motions cast different spells, and different 
 spell sets are used for combat and exploration. The only major annoyance in gameplay is the fact 
 that most of this wonderful spellcasting system is put to use for simple tidying up and easy puzzles. 
 For a fan of the series, this is not as taxing, but for someone into pure action and adventure, 
 this can seem overly tedious and utterly pointless. What I mean is that you will often find yourself 
 simply wandering the castle in search of torches to light and suits of armor to repair. The advantage 
 to this is the 'Discovery Point' system. For every 'discovery' you make (fixing things, finding 
 interesting objects, etc) you get points. Much like experience points in RPGs, you accumulated 
 discovery points and over time your spells grow more powerful and you gain access to new behind-the-scenes 
 video and trophies in a special room in the castle. Other than the tidying up aspect, the gameplay 
 is pretty interesting and can suck you in (especially just being able to roam the immense grounds) .
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
  As long as you've got a good graphics card, the graphics are spectacular. EA did a great job mapping 
 character faces and recreating the environment. One of the actors points out in one of the unlockable 
 videos in the room of rewards that EA reconstructed the castle down to the minutest detail, giving 
 the example of a specific stack of books in the Gryffindor common room that was present in the 
 film. It is this kind of detail that truly makes this game soar above any other Potter game so 
 far. Apart from the environment, the NPCs are pretty well done and the spell effects are understated 
 yet very effective.
  
  SOUND: 9
  Sometimes it gets annoying to hear NPC students ranting on and on with the same lines in the hallways, 
 but the dialogue is faithfully recreated by 22 of the cast members and EA obtained licensing to 
 use much of the film score. The fact that the film score is used makes the game even more immersive, 
 and makes it feel like the movie all the time. The spells aren't too obnoxious unless your characters 
 wind up yelling the spell names over and over; that's when it gets annoying. Other than that, though, 
 it's fine.
  
  VALUE: 9
  With all the unlockables and exploration in the game, it's really worth it to just wander through 
 the castle and the castle grounds, just for the experience. Though the story is shortened and quidditch 
 is nonexistent, it is simply following the same path as the film, and so I find it to be by far 
 the best Harry Potter game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeg82
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When Harry Potter first came onto the book scene I was one of it's biggest nay-sayers. I worked 
 for a bookstore at the time and refused to read it, saying that it was just hype and that I wouldn't 
 be caught playing the Lemming who bought the most popular book game.
  I did pretty well, it wasn't until the release of Goblet of Fire that I bought the first book and 
 even then only did so to shut up my colleagues. It sat on the bedside table for months before I 
 touched it. I had flu and it was the only thing in reach. Needless to say, I finished it in one 
 sitting, just sucking up the great storylines.
  
  I've since converted to Potterism, happily lining up to buy the new books, and dvd's. Games on 
 the other hand, I stayed away from, fearing they wouldn't translate well from the book into a game.
 
  
  However after watching the trailers and playing the demo of Order of the Phoenix I was quite intrigued 
 by this game. So I rushed out and bought Order of the Phoenix.
  
  Ultimately I really quite enjoyed it. Hogwarts is fully realised, you can walk from room to room, 
 nip into the portraits to take a shortcut... you truly feel that you are there. Fellow pupils wander 
 the halls and either cheerfully greet you or curse at you for having the audacity not to be a member 
 of Slytherin. The spells were quite fun to perform, wandering around and fixing broken pots, revealing 
 hidden items by levitating the curtains etc. Eventually you can even cast spells on other students, 
 which comes in quite handy when you've had enough of listening to Slytherin's prattling on about 
 how good they are.
  
  There are 3 minigames, Chess, Marbles (Gob-Stones) and Exploding Snap. I had a problem with the 
 chess (kept coming to a stale-mate regardless of the fact it should have been a check-mate) but 
 it was still fun, as were Gobstones and Exploding Snap.
  
  Of course no game is perfect, this one is no exception. While the spells are fun they can be tricky 
 to perform, the movements are too similar so when you are trying to levitate something it ends 
 up being pushed away from you instead, annoying to say the least, and don't bother trying to do 
 it with a trackball setup. Definitely need a mouse for this one. Same goes for Gobstones, mouse 
 requirements there too.
  
  The most frustrating aspect of the game are the movement controls. The camera rotates automatically, 
 so one minute you're running down a hallway and the camera pans around, so you end up going backwards 
 instead. Going through doorways can be interesting sometimes, you end up caught in a loop of going 
 in/out of the same doorway.
  
  Another frustrating aspect is that the Makers assume that the player has either read the book or 
 seen the movie. Plot-points are advanced way too quickly, often with no explanation for the events 
 that have occured. Even having read the book and seen the movie there were a few moments of Huh?! 
 .
  
  ------
  Ultimately the game is not perfect, there's no such thing. But if you can look past the quirks 
 mentioned above it can be quite an enjoyable game. If a bit too short. Give the game a chance, 
 you may find yourself pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saaoba
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  I Think It Will Be A great game because it is depended on a famous story and a great one i love 
 harry potter and all it is production books, films and game i see that every game that ea games 
 make it be better than the one before . the music and the enviroment in playing is very good actors 
 and story are great i advise every one to play this game because of its good creation harry potter 
 and the ph stone , harry potter and the chamber of secrts, harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban 
 , harry potter and the goblet of fire , harry potter and the order of the phoenix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cireking213
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  It seems like 3/4 of the game is just running around on quests. And the storyline feels extremely 
 choppy and hard to follow. I suspect the game was rushed out unfinished to be released with the 
 film.
  
  It was fun in spots, and I really like roaming around Hogwarts, but this just does not feel like 
 a game to me. It's a very entertaining virtual tour. Production values are top-notch. It's just 
 missing decent game play, cohesiveness of story and pacing, and the parts they scrapped due to 
 schedule.
  
  The odd thing is there is no sense of the passage of time. It feels like one long endless day until 
 bam, the games over. There is no night. I have avoided all movie franchise games. I should have 
 avoided this one too, but I kinda like my virtual Hogwarts tour guide. It does that well. A game 
 however, it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOD_youngblood
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This game really sucks, the previous game it was good, but this have bad graphics, worst game-play 
 and only single player, is't a shame for the book and movie.
  BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
 BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indian_boy90
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  The Harry Potter series is probably one of the best book / movie series of this century. Unfortunately, 
 the same can't quite be said about the games. From the Sorcerer's Stone, up till Order of the Phoenix, 
 i've played all of the games, and they all have one thing in common: they suck.
  
  Gameplay.... Though this part of the Harry Potter games does have an interesting touch [the mouse 
 is your wand] this gameplay add-on really wasn't that great. Occasionaly you'd be trying one spell, 
 and because of a little twitch, you'll end up casting something else, or more often than not, nothing. 
 Also, the library of spells, thus far at least, is very limited. Nothing else is added to this 
 game in terms of gameplay. Same old, cast a spell at an obvious protrusion to win something you 
 can't quite care about, only now, you've got to do it all across Hogwarts. Yes, you'd think that 
 being able to explore the whole school would be 'awesome,' while in reality, it just adds to the 
 pain of your tasks. For example, getting all the members of the DA into the Room of Requirements 
 requires you to find them all. They're spread out between the four corners of Hogwarts, and can 
 be found with the Marauder's Map [whose footsteps are extremely slow, and often covered up because 
 of bad camera angles] . However, they assign you tasks which, often, result in you going to another 
 corner of the school, to discover you have to go to another corner, and then finally go back to 
 the first corner you were at. In such a big school, you'd expect the first lesson to involve a 
 'teleport' spell? Also, not all the doors are open to you, as advertised. Good luck seeing the 
 girls' dormitories, [well, Hermione is allowed into the boys'] or seeing the Divination room etc. 
 etc. These points mentioned in this paragraph are the biggest negatives in the game [there are 
 more] .
  
  Graphics.... well, i'll be honest, i'm impressed with the environments, the bloom effect is well 
 used, and the fx when casting spells is nice too! The characters do look quite a bit like the movie 
 counterparts, but not really.
  
  Sound... Bad voice-acting is my only beef with the sound in this game. Otherwise the ambient sounds 
 and the magic sfx are pretty decent. Nothing much to complain about here!
  
  Value.... don't buy. Even if you're a crazy fan of the series, its not even worth the rent!
  
 
  If you do buy it, good luck not dying of boredom before getting all the DA members to get together! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjkelliher
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  I loved being able to wander the castle in-depth, but I wish that instead of endless day there 
 was a mode to bring on endless night - will we ever see a MMO Harry Potter game? Guess we'll just 
 have to wait for the theme park in real-life.
  There are great cut-scenes from the actors and director of the movie and game which are used as 
 a reward system.
  The main objectives were overly simple and the Mini-games made things more challenging. However, 
 I disliked the cut-scenes since they seemed to be pasted onto the game since most of the time must've 
 been spent on the castle stuff.
  Overall, a decent game with wonderful graphics and finally using the actor's voices and soundtrack 
 from the film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NUCLEARGOBLET
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I Think It Will Be A great game because it is depended on a famous story and a great one i love 
 harry potter and all it is production books, films and game i see that every game that ea games 
 make it be better than the one before . the music and the enviroment in playing is very good actors 
 and story are great i advise every one to play this game because of its good creation harry potter 
 and the ph stone , harry potter and the chamber of secrts, harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban 
 , harry potter and the goblet of fire , harry potter and the order of the phoenix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: English is not my primary language, please if you can't stand my grammar, go see another 
 review ^^.
  
  First if you did not read the book, just forget the game, you will never understand it.
  
  
 I played every Harry potter game that came out, but I have to say it's the worst game I ever purchased.
 
  This game is an insult to every Harry Potter fan. First you start with little explonation fighting 
 a bunch of dementor and your ( fast and hard to understand) victory over them will only give you 
 a sour taste of what coming up next. Harry mysteriously get into the phoenix order house where 
 he start screaming at other character for about 10 seconds, a stupid job and then he becomes happy, 
 until he meet Hermione Granger, then he start sceaming, another stupid job and boom happy until 
 he meet Ron well you get the point... The dev tryed to add some emotion, but it failed and isntead 
 make you feel like if Potter had a bipolar disorder. You might think that the game will be better 
 in Hogwart? well it's not!
  
  Gameplay : 2/10 The gameplay is cruel. First, moving harry with a keyboard and a mouse is extremely 
 annoying, especially when you need to target or use the stair. Second, the camera suck. Third, 
 the story is disjointed.
  
  Forth, the game is dull and the mission suck. To give you an idea, the first 3 missions are: Move 
 up the stair to get into the griffindor tower, once you get there Ron forgot the stupid password 
 and guess what? Second mission, move down the stair and try to find a griffindor student that know 
 the password!!! (what's more annoying is that they were a griffindor student next to me before 
 I talked to the big women for the first time, but after Ron told me that he did not have the password, 
 that student dissapear, so great...) . To complete the second mission, you have to get up the stair 
 again to talk to the big women... You will meet Hermione again and she will tell you to find Neville. 
 More stair !!! and so on... Clearly a lack of imagination.
  
  Graphics: 8/10. very good graphic. Refer on the screenshot.
  
  Sound: 7/10 Sound is ok, some 
 voice are boring to listen to. Music is good when you can hear it.
  
  Value: 2/10 8 hours of gameplay with around 4 hours of move from one place to another to find X 
 person or X class.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 3/10, the game gave me a headache after 2 hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperberryK
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  I dropped $74 on this the day it came out. I really, really regret it.
  
  Pretty much everything said in the Gamespots review was spot on (Hell, the header alone sums it 
 up) . It's entertaining for awhile (Read: a SHORT while) , but the game gets completely boring and 
 teduious as soon as you start trying to assemble the DA. I think that was EA's way of trying to 
 make a horribly short game longer: Make up a bunch of pointless, boring, random quests, that feature 
 loads of backtracking, for the player to do while he/she recruits the DA. That entire section will 
 kill your will to play this game.
  
  The other HUGE flaw is the lack of camera control. Yes, Hogwarts is rendered BEAUTIFULLY... Shame 
 you can't see most of it, because you're stuck with a camera that has a mind of it's own and usually 
 ends up obscuring most of the scenery.
  
  These two factors alone add up to make a game that isn't bvvery enjoyable. Add in the fact that 
 the story jumps around a lot, the cutscenes don't really tell you much of anything (So much for 
 filling in gaps) , and the minigames, while a nice distraction, are few, and you've got a big waste 
 of money in your hands. Or, if you're lucky, it's not in your hands.
  
  The bottom line: Fans who are waiting on the movie (and seventh book) may want to give this a try 
 if they can play it for cheap. Everyone else should stay far, far away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulrich_meffert
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The game is a nice distraction from the hassle of normal life and allows you to immerse yourself 
 into the world of harry potter, however after the initial impact of the good graphics, sound acting 
 and mini-games.
  
  You finally realise that this game is just like every other Harry Potter game and is rushed out 
 to squeeze a little more money out of Harry Potter fans as if the Movie was not enough.
  
  The new innovation of the hand gestures are a spin off from Black and White, while it does offer 
 something new to the Series it does not offer something new to the avid gamer.
  
  The game is just like the movie, short, easy, sweet and full of flash.
  If you want something 
 good read the book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gazza101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I was shocked when I saw that Gamespot gave this a sale-killing 5.0. If I were EA I would sue if 
 that is possible. This is easily the best Harry Potter game so far, and GS themselves gave the 
 earlier inferior games, much higher scores. Nornally I trust GS completely, but the messed this 
 one up royally, go read other reviews before you write this one off. The graphics are stunning, 
 Hogwarts has never been so fully realized in game form. It is a must buy for all Potter fans! OK, 
 I'm a bit miffed with GS now, they say my review has to have at least 100 words so I am just writing 
 this to fill up the space, la di la! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megagamer0193
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  The Good: *Loads of known characters from the series *You get to explore hog warts and use lots 
 of spells. *Initiative spell casting with mouse. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad: * Poor camera control * Short storyline * Little or no Re-playability  
 The next in the line of harry potter games is here. But its not worth the time. If you are a big 
 fan of harry potter then this game will have some value to you. You play as harry potter along 
 side the normal 3 main characters of the movies. The voice acting is decent and seems to add to 
 the game. But the story line seems a little difficult at 1st too follow. Later on in the game things 
 will fall into place but still leave a empty feeling too it. You will get to cast a wide variation 
 of spells. But there are actually very few combat things that you must fight. Although you can 
 initiate a random attack on some one. But this also is very uncharacteristic of harry potter. If 
 you enjoyed the other harry potter games you may like this one. It is fun for awhile but becomes 
 repetitive due to the fact you must back track through out the game. You will find your self going 
 all over hog warts many times. This game is something you would want to check your bargain bin 
 for. ONLY get this game if your a big fan of harry potter but do not accept a lot from it. Only 
 some mild fun that fades within a couple hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steelers_86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  First of all, I know that there are alot of issues with the game... it's short, the controls can 
 be infuriating at times, some aspects of the game start to wear down your nerves after a while.... 
 but if you can look past that, its not that bad of a game.
  
  If you are really into Harry Potter, then this is a pretty fun game, there is a lot to explore, 
 many people roaming around etc. Unfortunately, the things you do explore are a little boring, and 
 the people don't have much interaction other than Hi Harry! or something nasty from a Slytherin.
 
  
  The Game is far from perfect, but it is heading in the right direction. Its not just the same old 
 action movie game that we are used to seeing from the Harry Potter series. It takes big steps, 
 and you can see there are a lot of things that need to be filled in, but I think they will really 
 have something by the time the Half Blood Prince game rolls around. And who knows, maybe we will 
 eventually see a Harry Potter online game... how great would that be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Out of every Harry Potter game I've played yet, Order of Phoenix is by far the best yet! The game 
 has great graphics which make the whole Hogwarts come to life. It's really fun to now be able to 
 look around the whole castle and see things in such great detail. To cast spells you use your mouse 
 and move it in different directions.... use the arrows keys to move Harry. Makes for a pretty easy 
 to use wand and fun to do spells. There are things to do in just about every room you walk into 
 as well. From playing wizard chest or exploding snap with fellow classmates, to making all of the 
 tables and chairs fly across the room looking for new hidden magic. The cut scenes can be kind 
 of annoying and they do have some lacking in the voice department but other than that nothing to 
 bad. I spent about 10 mins. just playing with Harry making chairs fly across the room and hitting 
 people.... in which they either just tumble a little bit or fall to the ground. Very funny. All 
 in all this game is so far very fun, easy to play, good graphically, and seems to be the best yet. 
 Worth the money for those Harry Potter fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donvarriel
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Horrible Game
  Jaggy Characters
  Zombie Like Characters
  Timer
  No next gen Graphics
  Boring
  Needs a Joystick
  Horrible Port
  Don't Buy
  Don't waste your time downloading.
 
  Not worth a rent
  Very Poor
  No substance
  
  Boring
  Boring
  Boring
  Boring
  Boring
  Horrible Game
  Jaggy Characters
  Zombie Like Characters
  Timer
  No next gen Graphics
 
  Boring
  Needs a Joystick
  Horrible Port
  Don't Buy
  Don't waste your time downloading.
  Not worth a rent
  Very Poor
  No substance
  
  Horrible 
 Game
  Jaggy Characters
  Zombie Like Characters
  Timer
  No next gen Graphics
  Boring
  Needs a Joystick
  Horrible Port
  Don't Buy
  Don't waste your time downloading.
 
  Not worth a rent
  Very Poor
  No substance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DABhand_UK
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Many people loved the old Harry Potter games, except for the last where it changed its feel and 
 what you could do. So how does Order of the Phoenix fair?
  
  Graphically Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (HPOP) is stunning if you have the hardware 
 to play with full settings, which should not be hard as it is not hardware intensive like other 
 titles on the market, you do feel like you are in hogwarts and playing a part in the story.
  
  But... that being said that is HPOP's best feature.
  
  One major disappointment is the 
 controls and camera views, or should I say lack of controls of the camera views, most of the time 
 you will be close to cursing at your monitor as you try to turn to get round a corner or open a 
 door or aim to cast a spell. Why? Well for some reason the developers thought it would not be necessary 
 for you to control your camera so you have to rely on a poor camera system that seems to have a 
 life of its own.
  
  Never before has a game been more challenging to get from A to B without running into walls or 
 people. Its not so bad some people will say, perhaps, but throw in constant reminders from Ron 
 and Hermoine about what your supposed to be doing every 20 seconds and it becomes one hell of a 
 frustratingly annoying experience.
  
  Its like the preverbial nagging wife or mother depending on your age, Have you mowed the lawn yet? 
 - yes yes im doing it now, 20 seconds later, Have you mowed the lawn yet? - Scream! This is what 
 you will expect in HPOP as you run around Hogwarts.
  
  Quest wise the Marauders Map and little feet do help immensely to show you the way around to your 
 next destination, without it you would probably be lost early on, so quests become a bit easier 
 with this feature, actually most of the quests everybody should be able to do first time, since 
 strangely enough it is very difficult to lose intentionally. Try it, you will see what I mean.
 
  
  And you will find out that you have funnily enough completed the whole story line before you even 
 realise, and you will wonder ummm is that it? . Thankfully its not completely as you have the harder 
 task of collecting all the bonus points from exploring and finding hidden items and little puzzles. 
 Even harder is trying to do it with the disappointing camera system.
  
  Another annoying missing feature is the fact you have no health indicator or life bar to see what 
 your doing. So you have no idea if your low on health or full to the brim with lovely juicy health 
 points. But then again its not needed as said before you will find it hard to even lose at anything.
 
  
  Overall HPOP is beautiful to look at, but I feel the game has been pushed far far too early for 
 release and is very much unfinished, quick game to complete and highly frustrating when it does 
 not have to be. Lets hope the developers fix these bad features before the movies cinematic release.
 
  
  If you want a game the kids will love and who will not mind the bad features and gameplay of HPOP 
 then go ahead and buy it for them, otherwise purchase this at your own risk, as you may need a 
 new monitor or new neighbours from your frustrating punch outs and yells of naughty words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKOPY291
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, I love Harry Potter. I really wanted to love this game. But I really can't say 
 I did. This game is entirely too average. When I started it the first thing you'll notice are the 
 graphics. Though they are pretty for an open world game (with no load times, mind you) they are 
 anything but spectacular. My PC is beefy enough to handle this game and still at points the game 
 will chug for no reason. I understand during heavy firefights that it might have graphical issues 
 but I didn't have this issue. It seemed to slow down at instances that it shouldn't. Characters 
 also have issues where they'll disappear and some graphical clipping further mar the graphics. 
 On a positive note Hogwarts is fully rendered and a glory to run around in. The character models 
 are definitely growing up with the characters of the series but the cut scenes could have been 
 a bit more polished.
  
  Game play is fun at first. There is plenty to do in Hogwarts. From repairing trophies and helping 
 Harry's friends the game puts its best foot forward to keep you busy as you walk around. Each magical 
 spell has it's own mouse flick that you have to learn which adds an interesting dynamic in battles. 
 You can pick a fight with anyone as well which is fun to do when you're bored. The navigation system 
 is great, using the Marauders Map is fun... plus as an added bonus it adds foot prints on the ground 
 to where you need to go. A little touch that makes memorizing Hogwarts: A History just for fun.
 
  
  But all this fun quickly starts to die down as you make your way through the Viaduct for the 20th 
 time. Harry is a bit hard to control at times running around like he's lost his way. The spells 
 can be, at times a bit wonky. Using Wingardium Leviosa can be a treat and a hassle. At times it'll 
 be very precise and at others you'll be lobbing stone chairs at kids heads uncontrollable. Which 
 is also fun... still I don't think this is what the dev team at EA wanted. A lot of the times you'll 
 find that things are just a bit out of tune.
  
  All things considered, though, this is a fun game clocking in at a bit over 10 hours. If you're 
 able to put up with some of the work and sub par minigames (most likely developed with the Nintendo 
 Wii in mind) you'll have a good enough time. Still with nothing here to distinguish it from any 
 other game, outside of its wand waving fiascos, I can't say this is anything more than a rental. 
 It's a shame too because a product like Harry Potter shouldn't be anything outside of... well... 
 magical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashuea
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  When i started the game for the first time, i was impressed by the graphics used in this game and 
 the fact they had the actual actors from the movie voice the characters. They even had rather good 
 music for the game which gave me the felling of me actually being at Hogsworth. Then all of that 
 faded away when i realized how frustrating it is to use the wand gestures . you have to move your 
 mouse in certain ways and if you screw up, too bad. Makes me want to give this game the T for Troll 
 in the area of control. In the heat of battle, i found myself using different spells than the ones 
 i wanted to cast and this total lack of control made the game very frustrating to use, not to mention 
 the camera angle often got in the way. The task you are assigned are also very simple to the point 
 of bordem. Its more or less a go fetch sort of missions this game gives. When you do get to fight, 
 you are almost always outnumbered and as i previously stated, the frustrating controls often means 
 you will lose. Finally, the game was also very short. I finished it in 2 days, almost makes me 
 wish you could just rent computer games like you could a video game. This game is strictly for 
 the hardcore fans.
  
  Short version.
  
  PROS: Good storyline, Excellent Graphics, Voice actors are the actual actors from the movies, good 
 music.
  
  CONS: Horrible control, somewhat poor camera, too short, missions suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  It's better than Hp1, cause it was stupid, it's better Than Hp2, cause it was just like the first 
 one, it's better than Hp 3, cause it was very short, it's better than Hp4, cause in that, you can't 
 go anywhere, only in the levels, It's the best of the Hp's. Cause Hogwarts is very big, and you 
 got funny spells, you can do much more, than ever, in Hp games. It got nice graphics, not Brilliant, 
 but nice graphics. And you can play with it 10-20hours, maybe 30. But after you played it for enough, 
 you won't play with it again, it's a simple, game, without very big ideas. But the controls are 
 terrible! This is the worst controll in the wolrd . It's funny, but not more than funny, it's more 
 than funny, only for the big Harry Potter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaTmAnX92
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix looks great in trailers. You can use your mouse to cast 
 spells and run around a very detailed world. The size of the school is exactly how it should be. 
 J. K. Rowling helped work on the game, mainly with getting the school exactly how it should be. 
 The graphics looks superb. Everything is detailed nicely, but the faces don't have some detail 
 to them. The sound of the game is perfect. The voices are done excellently by the real actors of 
 the movie and the music in the game is excellent. The gameplay itself is really good. It follows 
 the story perfectly, even though it is short, and the wand interaction is somewhat good. I found 
 myself sometimes casting Wingardrium Leviosa, the levitating spell, and couldn't get the object 
 to where I wanted it to be, and sometimes I would even cast Dipendo, the pushing spell. It got 
 on my nerves, but in time I figured it out. The game does have quite a bit of spells to it, and 
 they all come in handy. Even though the story is short, you can do some other things. You can go 
 walking around Hogwarts and do other tasks and do anything else. Harry Potter and the Order of 
 the Phoenix is probably a rental, but even if you do rent it, it will probably be a good game for 
 anybody, but mainly for Harry Potter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  oh Yea the New Harry Potter . I am not fan of Harry but i do play the games . This game seemed 
 somehow different and i downloaded it as sooner as it was available . Graphics - didnt they said 
 - next gen graphics ? Uh well the graphics are good but just average nothing more .. could be better 
 . The magic looks ... well strange just like the outside yard seems strange ...
  The Gameplay is terrible the mouse control is not okay . But at least we can see most parts of 
 Hogwards . And here comes the big run you will have to run alot and thats not funny run to there 
 follow the steps . Jaaa but in dark places you can't see these dark red steps .. The games is too 
 short and the side quests are not enough ( lol its 3 gbs game i escaped much more than this ) I 
 am still not at the end but i feel its not very far ;) . Sound - its good but could be better . 
 Not much fun in this games . But worth trying ...
  Its disappointment for me . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stijnyboy1994
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  I've always loved the Harry Potter books, and was excited when the first game came out. Since then 
 I've played all the Harry Potter games, and I must say that this one is quite messed up.
  Pros:
  Wand control. You now need to move your wand to cast a spell, this gives a better and 
 more realistic feeling.
  Interaction. You can pick things up with a spell, get rewards for that, and find secrets with it. 
 You can also talk with everyone who walks around.
  Loading times. Yes, in the third and fourth game it could be annoying, but here it's gone!
  Gameplay. 
 You can walk around freely around school again! In the fourth game it was more of an RPG, just 
 walking through the cardbox levels and getting points to move on, here you can walk around and 
 find secrets again.
  
  Cons:
  Graphics. The graphics are HORRIBLE, most of the movies are ok, but the in-game graphics really 
 suck. The models don't have detail, the detail (if there is any!) is in the skins. Disappointing, 
 since I've got a 500 dollar videocard, and expected something better, we're in the year 2007!
 
  Camera. Oh dear. It's just like in the 4th game, its a platform game! It's really annoying at 
 the PC. Movement is made difficult by the strange camera-positions. I'm used to standard W, S, A 
 and D, but here you can just push W all the time and you'll get where you want to be.
  
  In short: some features are done really well, like the new wand, but EA made one game for all the 
 platforms possible. Result: bad graphics, console-style movement and strange camera's. If you want 
 to buy this game you better wait till it's about 20/30 bucks. then you've got worth for your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tromatized
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Here is a game that could be a real success but was rushed, i've been waiting for this game for 
 a long time... As much as i like the school, all the details and the sound effects and characters... 
 I hate the fixed camera, you always need to adjust your control each time you enter in a new zone, 
 this is worst then a loading time believe me, the angles of the camera are much like resident evil 
 2 , this is not working for a game that should be about exploring the school and see what you want 
 to see, you know, this game was supposed to be all about freedom but you cant even set your camera 
 where you want. You always get to see the angles that they wanted you to see. They lied also about 
 the configurable controls too, you only have the choice between 2 type of keyboards or to plug 
 a 360 controller.
  
  The school is amazing, the music and sound effects are awesome, the spell casting could be better, 
 it could be easy to fix if there was an option to put the camera behind the character while casting 
 it would be easier. I think EA should release a patch for the camera for the pc version.
  
  i'd say EA games needs to work harder on the next title they are on the good track, they need to 
 hire some of the guys from the team that made the godfather. This game has an enormous potential, 
 but out of the box, the gameplay is wrong, the camera angles are confusing. If EA could wake up 
 and fix it, they could make a lot of money with this game and do an expension because the school 
 is so huge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dornirit
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  let start with graphic it is a beter graphic then the others (not so diffrent though) .
  the video (movie) graphic is amazing.
  but the ingame graphic is not s good.
  graphic: 6
 
  sound, the sound is ok.
  sound: 8
  game play: 5 ok ill just tell you what i think abut the game without rating it!
  the game is 
 sucks guys! the control system it is soooo bad! you cant control the camera when you trying to 
 make a spell you are doing a diffrent one by exadent.
  what i think?
  the best harry potter games were the 1st 2nd and the 3rd the 4th was very bad (the wars) and the 
 5th is bad to..
  why they are tryig to make new suff? in the 3rd it was a real adventure you played with harry you 
 could move the camera it was fun but now you cant play more then 20-30 mins cause you get sick 
 of the camera and control system.
  dont buy te game guys believe me my friend bought it and he deleted it before even finishing 1 
 level! can you imagine how bad the game is?
  my all game rate is:
  5 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
