-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/harrypotterandthess/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 841 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: KnowWonder
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 15, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultimately, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone doesn't have the widespread appeal of its literary 
 namesake and is suitable only for children. 

  The Harry Potter phenomenon, which originated with J. K. Rowling's incredibly popular series of 
 fantasy novels, has arrived to gaming audiences as a series of cross-platform action-adventure 
 games published by Electronic Arts. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone casts you in the role 
 of the troubled young orphan wizard during his first year of studies at Hogwart's School of Witchcraft 
 and Wizardry. As Harry, you are challenged to attend classes in the arcane arts, collect as many 
 magical sweets as you can find, and foil the plot of your parents' killer, the evil Voldemort. 
           Harry Potter's first PC adventure is a short ride.    

  For most of the game, Harry will be challenged to learn different spells, including Flipendo, the 
 knockback charm; and Wingardium Leviosa, the levitation spell. Learning these spells is accomplished 
 in a classroom setting, where an arcane symbol is traced through the air and needs to be reproduced 
 by a steady hand within a time limit. The spells that Harry learns are then put to use in challenge 
 areas, where platform jumping and the triggering of levers and buttons through use of these spells 
 is the name of the game. The block puzzles and platform sequences are highly repetitive and, for 
 the most part, incredibly simple, and those who have even the slightest trouble with them can enable 
 an auto-jump feature to completely remove any semblance of a challenge. Along the way, you are 
 expected to collect multicolored Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans, which can be traded in for collectable 
 trading cards of various wizards. These trading cards feature mostly a single line of background 
 information on notable historic magicians, and collecting all of the more-hidden cards is a respectable 
 challenge.   

  In addition, Harry will be challenged to compete in the wizards' sport of Quidditch, a strange 
 combination of soccer and basketball, which takes place in midair astride witches' broomsticks. 
 Harry's role in the game as the seeker is to hunt down the golden snitch, an incredibly agile sphere 
 whose capture heralds the winning of the game. There are several positions on a Quidditch team, 
 including a goalkeeper and defensive and offensive specialists. You are allowed to take part in 
 the event only from Harry's perspective, and each of the games seems almost impossible to lose. 
 The opposing seeker never grabs the snitch, and the other players appear to be there merely for 
 visual effect, having no real bearing on the game. Despite the instruction manual's indication 
 otherwise, you are also forced to use a very awkward keyboard control scheme, instead of the preferable 
 mouse-guided steering. Those particularly enamored with the wizards' sport will be pleased to note 
 that once the game is played in the story mode, you unlock a Quidditch tournament game that can 
 be played at any time, adding a bit of replay value to an otherwise very brief six-to-seven-hour 
 adventure.   

  Although the game predominantly centers on these somewhat bland gameplay elements, the developers 
 did find room to mix things up with some key enjoyable sequences. In one mission area, Harry dons 
 an inherited invisibility cloak before embarking on a stealth mission, similar to those in Metal 
 Gear Solid, where the goal is to bypass security by predicting the movements of caretaker Mr. Peeves 
 and his cat Mrs. Norris. Harry will also duel with enemies in brief circle-strafing sessions, which, 
 although rather simple, are fun to complete, if only as a break from the rest of the game. It's 
 a shame that there is no obvious feature for storing multiple game saves, because some of the more 
 exciting sequences, particularly the encounters with some of the boss characters, are worth replaying. 
   

  Graphically, the developers have done a good job of using the Unreal engine to re-create the visual 
 style of the recent blockbuster movie release. The explorable areas of the castle are a pleasure 
 to experience, with many suitably magical details, such as the wandering ghosts, the animated suits 
 of armor, and of course, the other students. The game makes full use of a relatively small number 
 of textures; after the first challenge area, the visual look of the game starts to repeat itself 
 quite a bit. Magical sequences are re-created with attractive particle effects, while lighting 
 and shadows are effectively handled -- the spookier parts of the game are quite well done.   

  Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone also performs a balancing act of sorts by borrowing some 
 of the actor likenesses from the film, like those of the various professors you'll encounter, while 
 using almost cartoonlike versions of the protagonist and several other key figures. The introduction, 
 which sums up a sizable chunk of the story, is conveyed in a brief ink-on-parchment still-image 
 sequence, using the same art that can be found in the PlayStation and Game Boy Advance versions 
 of the game. These narrative shorts seem incredibly rushed and don't give proper due to the source 
 material. Overall, the story isn't revealed in any compelling manner and seems more like obligatory 
 filler between platform-jumping sequences.   

  On the other hand, the bedtime-story-style narration is performed admirably, as is the work of 
 the many voice actors who bring the Hogwart's characters to life. If you haven't seen the movie, 
 then you can enjoy the soundalikes' reprisals of the beloved roles without skipping a beat. There's 
 a good amount of variety to the speech, including the somewhat humorous chatter of the kids in 
 the halls. Sadly, while an effort was made to record the spell chants in several inflections, it 
 gets incredibly annoying to hear Harry shout out "Flipendo" for the thousandth time, ruining the 
 overall positive impression that the audio presentation would otherwise impart.           Its musical 
 score is probably the highlight of the game.    

  The music, on the other hand, is enjoyable throughout. Providing the palpably magical soundtrack 
 is acclaimed composer Jeremy Soule, who absolutely shines at certain moments. When pesky gnomes 
 scurry out from behind corners to steal your beans, a recurring lighthearted tune will kick in, 
 signaling the appearance of these nuisances. The music does well to convey the emotion of certain 
 parts of the game, whether it's nervous tension during sneaking sequences or the excitement of 
 a heated Quidditch match. The selections do repeat a bit too often, though, so there isn't enough 
 variety to keep the game sounding fresh throughout its short duration.   

  Ultimately, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone doesn't have the widespread appeal of its literary 
 namesake and is suitable only for children. When compared with the many stellar gameplay experiences 
 available to PC gamers today, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone underwhelms with an extremely 
 brief story, overly simplistic platform jumping sequences, and repetitive gameplay. Then again, 
 children ready to move on from purely educational PC games to those that are purely entertaining 
 will likely enjoy Harry's first PC adventure, but older players captivated by Rowling's first tale 
 would be better served by reading the novel's three sequels or by seeing the movie again.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mr_Versipellis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  I won't lie: I love this game. Why?
  Crap graphics. Mindless gameplay. Annoying controls. Lame voice-overs. Pure ridiculousness. Childish 
 theme. And a whiff of shovelware to it. But despite all these characteristics, I grew up on this.
 
  When I was a very little kid, I was a total Potter fanboy. I was obsessed. So imagine my joy when 
 at about age 5 or 6 I got this for my birthday. I was overjoyed, and from the first time I played 
 it, I loved it. I played trough it many, many times with my Mum and Dad on our lame little PC.
 
  This game pretty much defined my introduction to gaming. And frankly, I think it's great for kids... 
 or my Mum. She's playing it now in 2009! (That's why I'm writing this) One of my strongest memories 
 was being afraid of the gnomes that plagued the level (come on, I was only a kid!)
  Now, don't get me wrong; the game has some merits. I actually like the art style and atmosphere 
 of the game. Something about it is very, very creepy. Maybe it's the feeling of not being able 
 to backtrack at all, or maybe the sheer loneliness of it.
  I love the music of the game, even now. According to Wikipedia, Jeremy Soule (Neverwinter Nights, 
 Morrowind) wrote it -- and that would explain why I like it so much. If you've played it, you might 
 remember the music that plays in the "Flipendo Challenge" level. That's among my favourite parts 
 of the game's soundtrack.
  The game portrays Hogwarts quite well, in my oppinion. It doesn't really match the films very well; 
 heck, it doesn't even mirror the books. But it really does feel like I think it should - magical 
 and utterly bizarre; a place of nonsensical mysteries. One of my favourite areas is the "Lumos 
 Challenge"... I don't know why. But now, this game has shaped a part of my mental image of Hogwarts.
 
  In conclusion, I will recommend anyone away from this game -- except for devout potter-fans under 
 8. I don't like this game as a game -- I love it as a symbol of youth, and my plain wonder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Like the title, this game is based off of the Harry Potter trilogy. This game is merely average 
 at best with repetitive gameplay flaws that make the game worthy only of a rent for die-hard Harry 
 Potter fans. The game ties itself in with the film fairly well, alongside with the great visuals. 
 However, the gameplay mechanics feel awkward and repetitive. You can't actually explore that much 
 of Hogwarts. Mission designs are either frustrating or boring, or a combination of the two. You'll 
 be forced to learn magic spells to use throughout the game, and there are a little puzzle elements 
 added to the core gameplay. These additions don't make the gameplay enjoyable. Harry Potter and 
 the Sorcerer's Stone is merely a decent game at best and should be recommended only to those die-hard 
 Harry Potter fans that can't get enough of the wizard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veselinkanchev
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Why do they continue making movie-based video games? Don't they see nobody has fun playing them, 
 which, I believe is the purpose of video games. That way they make people who buy the game miserable. 
 Profanizing the industry like that is like killing ponnies in front of crying little children, 
 who grow up to be  Not that there were 
 never bad games before, but such games are so uninspired and unfun, that you can't even hate them.
 
  The levels are linear, the story is unrealistic (not- "magicwand and flying stairs" unrealistic, 
  unrealistic) . Even the battles are not 
 fun. You have to hit creatures like a billion times just to stun them. However the graphics are 
 good for the game's time, the sound's not bad and if you are a Harry Potter movie fan (the chances 
 are that you're a masochist) , you may like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armyman939
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The first harry potter film was really bad and cheesy yet the game was great.
  The voices for the characters were reasonable yet the noise he made when he jumps is very annoying. 
 Their clothing was really bad as well because when you ran the cape was still dead straight.
  
  There is also limited music to the game and after about 15 minutes of playing it you begin 
 to get annoyed. Really harry potter himself is really annoying and ron is ( i think ) the only 
 good character in the film and game because Hermione is very nippy and irritating ( i hate her 
 .. until the later films when she is sort of hot ) .
  
  The reason i like the game as much as i do is because you get to wander about the castle. The castle 
 is not really big or small but for what is there is i still like it.
  
  The fight at the end of the game against professor quarrel or what ever is name is was rather disappointing 
 as he keeps laughing when he is dieing and when you kill him you get an annoying clip of harry 
 killing him after you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's stone (US name) / Philospher's Stone (UK name) is a game that is 
 based off the book and the movie. The story starts as Hagrid dropping off baby Harry Potter on 
 the front doorstep of the Dursley house. A decade later, Harry gets a letter from Hogwarts and 
 meets Rubeus Hagrid for the first time. He then starts school, talks to Dumbledore about Hogwarts, 
 and getting help from Ron, Fred, and George Weasley on to getting the Defense Against the Dark 
 Arts.
  
  What I liked about this game is the spell challenges are fun. Cool spells. Familiar characters. 
 A good challenege overall.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that broomstick flying could be better. One extremely difficult 
 challenge. Peeves is so annoying. Mostly non-canon game.
  
  Overall, this is a pretty good start for Harry Potter games. If they had a little more canon moments, 
 it would be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Harry potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is the first game in the Harry Potter series created by Electronic 
 arts nad KnowWonder. If you think it looks great, it really isn't at truth though certain parts 
 of the game are fun. The quidditch tournament are the things you'll find greatest on the game. 
 There are also puzzles in the game and they're all nice and challenging but some aren't placed 
 well on correct places. Graphics in the game are outdated but still looks nice. The frame rate 
 is stable though it depends on how strong your computer is. The music and sound in Harry Potter 
 and The Sorcerer's stone are decent. They're enjoyable but some aren't really that good.
  
  Overall, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's stone is just a mediocre game though those who are fans 
 of the movie could find it appealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznhut
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is OK it isn't the best game in the world. I think that more games would appeal to people 
 than this game. The reason I don't think this game is that great is because the controls are awkward 
 personally to me. The puzzles are not that tough either and the hp system isn't that great. I do 
 not think that you should get this game. First I told you about the controls and the puzzles also 
 this is a old game so in the first place is not that great. Hope you find another game other than 
 this if you want slick controls and awesome puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone is the first game in the series. Usually the 
 first game in the series must set a good standard or risk screwing up the rest of the series. This 
 game almost did just that. Quidditch was bad. I'm sure it was a big reason people wanted to try 
 the game. The mechanics just weren't good and didn't live up to expectations. The games Challenge 
 Dungeons were too reptitive and easy. They didn't offer much of a challenge. The game seemed a 
 little to kiddish. Even though the first few books in the series are considered kiddy (HP doesn't 
 really get into the more mature stuff until the end of the 4th book) , this game bolded the kiddy 
 and might turn off some of the older fans.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: Listening to Harry cast Flipendo a million times is quite annoying. Although 
 you can mix it up a little bit, by pretending he is actually saying Nintendo . Fortunatley, there 
 are some good things about this game like the musical score. The graphics are well done, with the 
 environments being the best thing about this game.
  
  Replay Value: You could play it over again and find the Trading Cards, but there is really no point.
 
  
  Overall, this game should only be played by Harry Potter fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sou1forged
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone a while ago, and immediately wanted to try it. 
 Less than ten hours after I came home I had finished the game, and I was disappointed. I can't 
 complain on the graphics. It is very good for the time it was created though. The sounds is fine 
 as well, as is the game control, so the game could have been great, but the game is very linear. 
 It feels you're just going from place to place. It is also very short, and when the last level 
 is complete you can't do anything more. But from time to time I had a real good time with it, so 
 don't be afraid to try it out yourself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaasen_Zombie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Like many people, I'm a fan of JK Rowling's Harry Potter series. These books are about a young 
 boy who had suffered from an unhappy childhood until his 11th birthday, when, after a series of 
 strange events began to happen to him, a half-giant bursts in through the door and declares that 
 Harry is a wizard. Thus begins Harry's education at Hogwarts, a British school for young witches 
 and wizards, where he learns of the dark wizard Lord Voldemort, who killed his parents. In this 
 game adaptation of the first book of the series, Lord Voldemort is attempting to regain his power 
 by using the fabled Sorcerer's Stone -- which is currently being kept safe at Hogwarts.
  
  While the first book of the Harry Potter series appeals to just about everyone, the actual game 
 is a little disappointing. While it's sure to bring a smile to the faces of fans of the series, 
 there are a handful of issues that have kept this game from being far from memorable.
  
  The gameplay was overly simplified. You may think that you're about to get to enjoy exploring Hogwarts, 
 but the game plays out in a linear fashion, with no chances to sit back and enjoy the view. It's 
 all a matter of getting to the end, with few diversions. The majority of the game happens as a 
 number of lessons -- you begin by finding your next class, then learning a spell by tracing a patten 
 on the screen (which felt silly) , and then trying it out in a course that is set up by the teacher. 
 The lessons are good and offer a mixed variety of puzzles, jumping, combat, and item collecting.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the game is so straightforward that you don't even get much of a rewards for going 
 out of your way to do anything but the minimum. If you do want to get everything, you'll be limited 
 to collecting Bertie Botts Every Flavor Beans, which can be obtained just from opening chests or 
 pots with a single click, or opening only mildly hidden secret areas to find Challenge Stars, (or 
 in a few cases, potion ingredients and fireseeds) . But there aren't any bosses during the lessons, 
 no fun powerups, no unlockables, and only a handful of enemies that you'll see over and over. You 
 can track your performance by looking at the House Points you've gotten, and Gryffindor House always 
 wins regardless of how well you do, and there are hidden Wizard Cards for you to collect, which 
 was the most challenging part of the game, but honestly, it wasn't worth it, because you just get 
 a bonus card at the end for your efforts.
  
  The presentation was probably the highlight of this game. The voice acting is well done, and the 
 fitting music from the Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone movie will be following you throughout 
 the game. Also, the textures and details were quite nice, with all the technical limitations of 
 2001 in mind. The castle was large, there were plenty of students running around, and there were 
 delightful surprises, like suits of armor moving about, ghosts floating down corridors, and the 
 fact that the paintings on the walls changed when you revisited old areas. The camera can be a 
 bit stubborn at times, which makes point and click wand battles a little tricky, but it was all 
 pretty good overall. The only sad part is that you can't go sightseeing, or walk outside and go 
 flying on your broomstick when you wanted, or maybe head up to the Gryffindor tower to have a nice 
 rest. It seemed like a waste for such pretty game areas to not be able to be truly explored.
  
  Here are some miscellaneous comments about the game: The game was too short, and could probably 
 be finished in an afternoon if you're skilled, but would just take a day or two if you're playing 
 more casually. Also, there is an issue with the fact that the game isn't too faithful to the original 
 story. There were some parts of the original book that could have been incorporated to add some 
 length and more fun, like Diagon Alley, but fans will like that familiar spells and characters 
 appear. Another nice part of this game was the Quidditch. A lot of time seems to have been spent 
 on making a fine show of the two in-game Quidditch matches, which are exciting and challenging, 
 but they are really only a short excursion. The difficulty of the game fluctuates greatly, for 
 example, the fight against the Devil's Snare didn't take much other than clicking repeatedly, but 
 the battle against Lord Voldemort is hard in comparison, since you pretty much get zero clues as 
 to how you're going to defeat him. But overall, the game was too easy and seemed to be geared towards 
 children.
  
  I've finished this game now, and I've gotten through all the little annoyances and also a handful 
 more of shining moments. I did have my favorite parts in this game, like the part where you're 
 sneaking around Hogwarts in your Invisibility Cloak, but sadly, once you finish the game a time 
 or two, there's no real point and going back and having another stab at it.
  
  Summary
  Good: Environments, music, details, puzzles, Quidditch, fans of the series will enjoy.
  Bad: 
 Linear progression, sticky cameras, little glitches, too short, not enough to do.
  Could Have Had: More exploration, more enemies, powerups, minigames and other diversions.
  
 
  For all of the above reasons, the good and the bad, I ultimately give this game a mediocre score. 
 It was fun for a while, but it has very little value. Check if a friend has a copy, it'll keep 
 you entertained, but not for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamers-heaven
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Following the book's storyline, you're in control of Harry from start to finish, learning 
 cool spells and collecting Wizard Cards and Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans constantly, using 
 them to buy new items and unlock new areas. Mediocre, really: 8
  
  Graphics: At the time of making, pretty good. Not the best, but good. For that, I'm going to be 
 giving it a 7. If it were made now, in 2007, they'd get a three or four, but it was not made this 
 year - it is old now, so a good old 7 will suffice.
  
  Sound: Mediocre scripting, all the voices are right, there's some Potter music and good spell sound 
 effects. But the drone of the narrator, and the constant chatter of other students saying Potter 
 or Harry will get on your nerves. Score: 5
  
  Value: Well, you probably won't find the game for less than &pound;20 because it's a classic oldie, 
 but if you can get it for a tenner or less, that's a good bargain. However, once you've completed 
 it once, you have to leave it for ages and forget all about it before doing it again. Score: 7
 
  
  Tilt: Not the best of games ever, but it'll last for a bit. Score: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Wow, Harry Potter, now a days I would never play a Harry Potter game but four years ago I would 
 have. When I was ten this was the best game ever, probablly because i didn't have too many PC games 
 back in the day. I thought this game was the best game ever, never before had I played a game where 
 you could use magic to move things and such. I loved the platforming action and how you could free 
 roam and then go to your classes when ever you wanted to. I think the best part about the game 
 was doing the quiddich and the final boss battle against who I forgot his name was very fun for 
 a kid new to the genre. If you hate Harry Potter than don't play this game at all, but if you're 
 a kid whose knew to the genre and you like the Harry Potter genre then you need this game right 
 now. Otherwise then you can pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamking
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  yeah... maybe the gameplay is a little boring, yeah, the cutscenes too but
  it feels like you are using a fake action replay or some thing
  (see ''Hints &amp; Cheats'') 
 for those cheats you need to press the good buttons
  (very) fast :D it is boring without those cheats but fun with x3
  just type harrysuperjump and 
 go anywhere you want xD have fun with cheating! ^_^ so bye! :)
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - -
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  Well, if you expect this game to be as good as the book, and even the movie, then you'll probably 
 be dissapointed. Its not as if the game lacks references to the book, but the production value 
 of this game is far from the level you'd expect from EA (or KnowWonder, to be precise) - and unfortunately 
 the experience feels more than a educational school game than a game based on one of the best fantasy 
 books in modern time.
  
  The game does have its charming qualities, though. As the spell learning classes, where you'll 
 have to draw some spell symbols with the mouse. The platform elements works flawlessly (though 
 the jumping puzzles are quite easy and best suited for the consoles IMO) - and the magic spells 
 you'll have to cast throughout the game in order to advance, makes sense and the actual casting 
 is intuitive. Press down the left mousebutton, and guide the spellmarker at the object you want 
 to cast the spell on. The spell will automatically be chosen based on the context. This system 
 will probably work perfectly on the Wii console, as the system is more or less perfect for that 
 systems controller.
  
  Granted, the game is from 2001, but the graphics are largely unimpressive, even for that time (min. 
 requirements are a 4 MB GPU) .. it is clear that the game is based on the first unreal engine, and 
 the textures (probably in order to fit in the 4MB GPU ram) , are blurry - and the objects and 3D 
 models are quite simple. The best model and animations belongs to mr. Potter himself, which has 
 some nice animations especially when casting spells or collecting Wizard cards (an ongoing subquest 
 of the game) . Nothing spectacular, though, and especially the jumping and running animations are 
 as stiff as they come.
  
  The voice acting of the game is acceptable, but I don't think they've used the original actors 
 voices - and the general feel of the sounds are quite flat.
  
  The game is over rather quickly as well, as the difficulty level is rather low. A few of the jumping 
 puzzles can be deadly, which will throw you back to the last autosave (it is not possible to quicksave) 
 - but I think I died 3 or 4 times in the 4 to 5 hours, it took to finish the game.
  
  Perhaps the most dissapointing aspect of the game is, that it fails to give a satisfying experience 
 to both children and adults alike, which IMO is one of the many strong points of the book (s) . KnowWonder 
 has delivered a solid experience for children only, and the mature readers will probably only play 
 through the games if they are big fans - in my case it was just about worth the 5 hours it took 
 to finish it. But don't expect the game to be as rewarding as the movies, let alone the books. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Superb game. Quite enjoyable! I played this game mostly when I was younger, but i still love it 
 now. Obviously the game is aimed at younger players, but even older people can have fun playing.
 
  If you've read the books and love Harry Potter, you will recognize cool and adventurous parts 
 in the game, that were in the book. Anyway, Harry's world of magic is awesome, spells that are 
 easy to preform, enemies to battle, tasks to preform... the fun is endless. Even in some situations 
 you need to think a bit about what to do, where to cast the spell...
  This game is under-ranked immensely, i think it deserves better rank. EA did a good job on this 
 game, they deserve credit!
  Even though the game was made a while back, and graphics aren't what they are today, I still have 
 a fond liking of the game. Obviously you should try this game. Only thing is it's a bit old. That's 
 all. YOU WILL LOVE IT ALL THE SAME!!!!
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbracascade
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 12, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Overall it has a nice atmospheric feel to it. The castle is big and secrets abound. While the loading 
 screens feel annoying, most of the levels are generally fun and easy. Some of the puzzles are very 
 clever although a few of the jumping puzzles are a bit annoying. The graphics can be buggy a bit 
 if you have a slow computer and a lot of things are too dark to make out normally and can be easily 
 missed. Nevertheless it's still a fun game, the first time you play it. Give it to someone else 
 as a present afterwards or sell it to a game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  OK, the story is the same as it is in the movie, with some minor changes, and this is good. Also 
 the graphics are accetable, even though the movies are way too far from being cute. The sounds 
 aren't good either..... I've not played any other game from the series after this and you can guess 
 why..... But this game has some good things which need to be mentioned. It's a very cute adventure 
 game, the environments are Great, and yo'll have a lot of things to do, like broom flight races, 
 castle missions, collecting things in the woods, and the last two fights are very impressive. If 
 you're a series fun you'll like this, if not..... have you seen the movie? Oh, I almost forgot 
 collecting some special cards is reall fun..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celentanoad
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Its fun for younger kids. But now, five years later, its just sort of boring. The graphics arent 
 great and you cant really explore much. There was alot of stuff added in , like the spell rooms 
 and stuff, which were really annoying. It was the sort of game that once you beat it, you were 
 releived and didnt want to play anymore. I dont think i even actually beat the game. I would get 
 to the very end and then I would never know what to do there with Voldemort. ANyway, good kids 
 game, but its sort of boring. THe 2nd one is a lot better.
  
  I remember the sound being really messed up too, like the person would keep moving their mouth 
 after they were finished talking. There were alot of stupid things like that and they screw up 
 the gameplay and make it less fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkWeasel
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter is a movie based game from EA based on the movie of JK Rowling's masterpiece. Of course 
 you know this game isn't going to be that great. I got it for christmas one year, and it was quite 
 fun my first time through, but then there was nothing left, no incentive to go back. The game has 
 very fun moments, like its stealth mission to set a dragon free, or roaming a large greenhouse. 
 The game ran fine on my old compaq with 16mb of video memory, so it will work on anything. The 
 game's best feature though, is its sound, which is light magical and mysterious. This game is mild 
 entertaining and you can find it for $5 which is worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 22, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Philososphers or the Sorcerers's Stone is a good game, the detail of things 
 and places you can explore. but the story line is quite different from the book and is not very 
 fun. i fisrt played it in Dec 2001. Then It was easier to aprecitate it. but now there are much 
 more entertaining games that give you hours of fresh gameplay. this harry potter game did not have 
 that fresh gameplay. it was also to short. once i had completed it it became one of those games 
 that you keep and then loose and them dont really care. so im not going to do a value for money 
 because i dont think you should buy this game. This is another review by Webmessia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  The best in this game, for me, is the sound and gameplay. I find it really impressive how the creators 
 managed to think and create how Harry goes around the school and can point his wand and cast a 
 variety of spells almost anywhere. There is also the fact that you can explore the school, which 
 is full of secret areas, which is really fun. Quidditch must also be one of the best parts of the 
 game, but you later get bored of always winning since your opponents aren't that good. The music 
 is just great. Sadly, the graphics are merely acceptable, ranging to bad. Yet the game tempts you 
 to replay it, and overall I think it is a good, simple and fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gengarjetty
Rating: 2.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone for the PC is Boring. It is also very childish. The main 
 features are bad gamplay, graphics and sound.
  
  The graphics aren't anything to look at , the characters look like textures pasted on low level 
 3d models. The gameplay is also very uninteresting. The only tough things are the broomstick control 
 and walking from one classroom to another, which is a walking death trap. The challenges are just 
 plain easy, you just need to know when to jump. Casting spells are easy too. 
  
  The sound during battle is bad, the menu music is okay. The voices sound dumb, too. Only Hardcore 
 Fans of Harry potter should RENT the game. 
  
  Basically the hype about HP1 for the PC is overrated and also unjustified.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thepychomonkey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  It was an alright game, im 16 and at some points it was hard for me. Im a Harry Potter fan, I love 
 the books, movies and now the games so if you are a fan, you'll love the games also, for the most 
 part they follow along with the books but some content is changed. The Quiddich matches are pretty 
 fun, but can get boring if you cant catch the Snitch in 20 minutes. the cut scenes take place at 
 the right time to give your hands a break, Great.. only thing I could think of was they should 
 have added some content from the movie into it (if the movie was out then cant really remember) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcstrawberry9
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  There were many things that could have been improved upon. First quidditch would have been more 
 fun if the controls were better, if you could switch which player you are or if you actually could 
 see what the score was as your going. Then another thing that they should have done is given the 
 option to just rome around a little bit. Instead of just getting to do things on the way to the 
 different tasks. I think a Zelda: Ocarina of time approach would have been pretty cool. Also, and 
 most importantly I think that getting to have more than 5 spells and even choosing between the 
 spells would have been very cool.
  Aside from these issues the game is not that bad however, it is obviously created for children 
 and is rather short. I think that there really isn't any replay value to this game. This is the 
 kind of game that is alright to play if your a hard core harry potter fan like I am becoming but 
 if you are just interested in a non first person shooter I would try one of the newer versions 
 although I haven't played them as of today all of the reviews seem to get better with the newer 
 harry potter games.
  I think that the story line is decent although it would have been nice if it would have either 
 stayed a little truer to the book or gone with the easier plot that the movie takes. All in all 
 worth playing once for older HP fans otherwise only for children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter's first venture into the realm of gaming is one giant flop. At least for someone twelve 
 or older.
  
  Harry Potter and The Sorcerer's Stone (or Philosopher's, for the rest of the review, it'll be Sorcerer's) 
 starts off with a very simple ink on parchment introduction to the story up until your very first 
 class in Defense Against The Dark Arts. That alone made me mad, as that was a nice chunk of the 
 story just left aside like dust. Anyways, through out these classes you learn different charms 
 to progress through challenges and mazes in the game. You learn them by following a tracing of 
 a shape of a charm within a time limit. From then on all you need to do is click and the spell 
 is cast . These challenges and mazes come after the classes and are very simple and quite repetitive. 
 Throughout the corridors of Hogwarts, you will find Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans to collect. 
 The only use it seems for these are to trade them in for trading cards that depict and give a one 
 line reading for what a witch or wizard did. IN the game, there are two Quidditch games to play. 
 Both are near impossible to fail at, the only way is by getting hit too many times in the air. 
 The keyboard dominant controls make the flying sequences much more difficult than it should be 
 but it is still relatively easy to catch the Snitch.
  
  There is a lot of story missing in the game, so much that the story cutscenes seem more like filler 
 than the challenges do. There's not even a mention of Voldemort before you face him at the end. 
 
  
  The graphics are subpar for 2001. In a forest scene, there are times where key items such as logs 
 signs, or even Harry disappears behind 2D Tree Walls they should be in front of. At another sequence 
 with the Cloak of Invisibility, you can see the front of Harry's torso and the legs underneath 
 his robe, even though you see in a third person perspective. The best graphical use is in lighting 
 and shadows, and in the spell effects.
  
  The greatest attribute the game has is in it's sound. The voice acting and narration are good and 
 solid, the voice acting is mostly very good for sound-a-likes. The musical score is always appropriate, 
 however there are too few tracks and even the good score gets repetitive.
  
  There are only two other things the game has to offer, flying practice and a Quidditch League play 
 mode. the practice has you redoing Madam Hooch's flying lesson from the main game, while the League 
 mode is a string of Quidditch games with the same difficulty as those in the storyline.
  
  Overall, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is a game better suited for youngsters looking to 
 part with the largely educational games and try the entertainment games for a size. Otherwise, 
 the game is far too short, too repetitive, and very easy in all aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kool_zed_speaks
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  Ok, if you are a great Harry Potter fan then and only then should you get this game. Otherwise, 
 you'll feel that it was a complete waste of time and money.
  To start with, the game for some reason does no follow the original storyline. ( Although you have 
 to say what else could they do? It wouldn't have been a video game then ) 
  The gameplay suffers slightly, but not so much that it's going to make you mad. A good thing is 
 that the loading times are quick. A flaw in Harry's animation is that while Harry is running see 
 only one of his legs moving! His robe moves about and he jumps very well for an eleven-year-old. 
 The wand movements are nice and you do feel excitement when you throw a spell. The spells are Flipendo, 
 Wingardium Leviosa and a few others.
  The graphics are a little above mediocre. Harry looks too childish. While Hermione and Ron don't 
 resemble their descriptions. The Hogwarts' teachers are done a bit better. Snape really looks nasty 
 and Flitwick, McGonagall and all are also good. But the key teacher of the year, Lupin is done 
 shabbily. The environment looks much better than the characters. The fires on the walls look very 
 well. There are evev very minute marks which will make sense to you only if you read the books. 
 So, that is a nice addition.
  I don't know if it was just mine, but in my cd of HPPS the sound is not completely loaded at the 
 beginning of a level and as a result I couldn't understand anything. I had to replay it. Apart 
 from this, the music is nice and really feels Hogwarts style.
  Like i said before this game is for HP fans only and small children will definitely find it amusing.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeshwent
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the sorcerers stone is a game that is created by EA based on the movie. 
 Though the movie was excellently created but EA failed to create any excitement at all in this 
 game. Well, let` s see the good points of the gamewell there arent any except 
 that this game will be loved ONLY by the young Harry Potter fan` s. As for the older fans of Harry 
 Potter this game is only for leisure or when you ain` t getting no sleep, because if you play this 
 game you certainly will.
  
  The game doesnt` provide any challenge at all and the only thing you will be doing the whole 
 time in this game is pressing switches, lighting up stone gargoyles and overturning cauldrons and 
 all such boring things. EA has always delivered many surprises to us and I hope for the same for 
 them in future. Otherwise this 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 8, 2005 3:50 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 4/10
  Even playing this game 5 years ago the first day it came out I was pretty disappointed with it. 
 There really is no gameplay a side from drawing the spells to learn them, using your fireball on 
 boulders, and going to all of Harry's classes. The one thing I liked about this game was that you 
 get to play quidditch which is actually really fun. Other than that nothing.
  
  GRAPHICS: 5/10
  There really isn't much to say about graphics they were not good at all. If the 
 game's graphics aren't good I usually don't enjoy the game as much. They really were lazy on the 
 graphics especially considering games like Halo and Metroid Prime were coming out just a year or 
 so later.
  
  SOUND: 7/10
  The voice overs at least were half decent. Background music was excellent though limited. I have 
 heard better but this game still has good audio!
  
  VALUE: 5/10
  In short this game is short and you will probably only beat it once if you beat the game at all. 
 Enough said about value.
  
  TILT: 5/10
  As a big Harry Potter fan I was really let down. However for any Harry Potter fan that has a console 
 system you still should rent it to compare it to the movie and book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  You know what they say about movies to games. Most of the time they aren't that great. Sometimes 
 there is an exception (Chronicles of Riddick) but this one isn't an exception.
  
  The gameplay is oke. You play Harry Potter, a student who wants to become a wizard. You have to 
 use your magic very often. With some spells you can do things like pushing a barrel, opening a 
 locked door, rise things up from their place, etc. One of the best things about the gameplay is 
 quidditch. It is very funny to play quidditch. I think it's one of the best things about the gameplay. 
 At school you learn your spells and learn how to play quidditch. Also you meet some people and 
 they will talk to you. One of the best levels is an stealth level where you try to go to a tower 
 without being spotted. It's a pretty exciting level and one of the best levels in this game.
  
  The graphics are ok. Not the best I have ever seen but ok. The character models aren't very 
 beautiful and the character don't have facial animations but the textures look great. It's too 
 bad that you don't have freedom in this game to go everywhere you like in your school. 
  
  The sound is ok. It sounds like the movie. The character sound repetitive. When you walk to them 
 they always say the same things. But the cutscenes sound great and are one of the best things about 
 this game. When Harry uses one of his spells you hear Harry say the spell and you hear his stick 
 moving around. That's a pretty cool effect and gives the spells something extra.
  
  The game doesn't have much replay value. There is a mode where you can play for the quidditch cup. 
 But it will not keep you busy for very long. But it's fun for children to play the game.
  
  The game isn't the best game I ever saw. But my sister, who is younger then me, enjoyed the game 
 very much. The game is great for children under 10 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k_rammerizkool
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 3, 2004 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This was the very first Harry Potter game i got. I havent beat it or anything, but mostly because 
 i got so bored and frusterated trying to find my way around, and getting through stupid jumping 
 puzzles. There are some fun parts, like the "boss" battles and whatnot. I especially like when 
 you battle Peeves, because for some reason, its just so fun! The classes are really hard sometimes, 
 especially if your frusterated from stuff. Like the flipendo spell. Its a big spiral. Ive had to 
 try it at least 4 times (not that you really get a chance) to get 3/4 of it right. Pretty lame. 
 Anyway, sometimes the game is fun. Quidditch would be really fun if the controls were better... which 
 reminds me. The game has FREAKING horrible controls! You cant invert the mouse (which is really 
 annoying) and they sometimes lag a bit. Um, i guess thats it. Yeah.
  
  All in all, dont waste your time on this game unless you like jumping puzzles, uninverted mouse 
 controls, and if you have a steady hand. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
