-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/harrypotterandthegobletoffire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three-player cooperative play.
 Card system of upgrades adds depth.
 Triwizard Tournament levels mix up the gameplay style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Relies a little too much on replaying levels.
 Reward for finishing a collection quest isn't always clear.
 Could have leveraged more media from the film.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 870 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 8, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a worthwhile platforming experience for hardcore Potter fans, but some may be put off by all 
 the collection quests and backtracking. 

  As Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger enter their fourth year at Hogwarts School of 
 Wizardry and Witchcraft, new challenges await them, both "professional" and personal. The Harry 
 Potter and the Goblet of Fire video game sticks strictly to the adventure aspects of the story, 
 never touching upon the sticky relationship drama that makes up key subplots in the novel and the 
 film. You'll still have plenty to do in the game, though: Guide the trio of young wizards through 
 various locales, fight magical creatures, solve puzzles, and usher Harry through the Triwizard 
 Tournament challenges just before a climactic showdown with Lord Voldemort himself. Though the 
 collection aspects of the game are a drag at times, The Goblet of Fire still does enough to keep 
 Potter fans engaged throughout.  

          Harry, Ron, and Hermione are back in the newest Harry Potter video game.     

  The 
 Goblet of Fire makes a few departures from the last game in the series, The Prisoner of Azkaban. 
 You still play as Harry, Ron, and Hermione, but the three don't have unique abilities anymore. 
 You also can't switch between them during a mission in The Goblet of Fire. But you'll still solve 
 plenty of environmental puzzles using each character's standard, context-sensitive charm spells. 
 Cast a charm in the direction of a boulder and you'll lift it with a wingardium leviosa spell. 
 Cast it in the direction of a fire, and your character will automatically do an aqua eructo charm 
 to conjure a stream of water for dousing the flame. Carpe retractum (for opening gates) and herbivicus 
 (for causing plants to bloom) are other context-sensitive charms used in the game. The puzzles 
 you need to solve are usually fairly obvious. For example, while exploring the greenhouses of Hogwarts, 
 you may need to use carpe retractum to pull down bridges, and herbivicus to open up lily pads that 
 let you cross small bodies of water. Some obstacles, like extra-large boulders or flames, require 
 two or more of the characters to simultaneously cast their charms to overcome them. The artificial 
 intelligence controlling the other characters is smart enough to help you out when it needs to, 
 but if you're playing three-player cooperative mode, you'll need to work with your friends to do 
 the same task. It's also worth noting that players can jump out of cooperative mode at any time, 
 switching control over to the computer if one player needs to leave.  

  Jinx spells are another primary spell type. Jinxes are basically just an attack you use to attack 
 monsters in the game, which include fire salamanders, dugbogs, and erklings. The menagerie isn't 
 very extensive, but each of the monsters has a different fighting style and offers a different 
 challenge. You can combine charms and jinxes to do combined attacks on creatures, as well. For 
 example, if one character lifts a creature up in the air with a wingardium leviosa charm, the others 
 can jinx it while it's being held for a combined attack, which is more powerful and effective than 
 just spamming the jinx button.  

  As you make your way through the game's levels, solving puzzles and fighting creatures, you'll 
 collect Bertie Bott's Every-Flavor Beans, which you can get when dropped by defeated creatures, 
 or by jinxing random parts of the environments. The beans serve as currency, which you can use 
 to buy cards to power up each character. The character card system adds depth to the game, letting 
 you customize each of the three characters depending on the situation and play style. Some cards 
 increase the power of your jinxes; others add stamina or duration to your magicus extremus meter, 
 which when filled, gives you a limited amount of increased firepower for your spells. The more 
 expensive and interesting cards let you fire double or triple jinxes with each cast, or give you 
 an advantage against certain creatures. Each character can only use three cards in a mission, so 
 you'll need to choose carefully before starting. Each character also maintains his or her own bean 
 count and deck of cards, so that encourages you to switch between characters as you go through 
 the campaign and make sure all of them have around equal power.  

  The primary gameplay in The Goblet of Fire involves collecting Triwizard shields that are scattered 
 about the various levels. Some are hidden away for you to pick up, while others are earned by defeating 
 boss creatures. Most of them require you to use your spells to solve environmental puzzles and 
 reach them in out-of-the-way places. As you collect Triwizard shields, later levels are unlocked 
 for play, letting you explore areas such as the Forbidden Forest and the roofs and greenhouses 
 of Hogwarts. There are other items scattered about the levels, such as minishields, statuettes, 
 and mushrooms, that you're asked to collect. Some of these also yield Triwizard shields, while 
 others unlock cards. The problem is that after you've collected all of a certain item, it's never 
 made clear what you've won. Sometimes a Triwizard shield popped up elsewhere in the level. Other 
 times, we never quite figured out what we won by finding all the statuettes or magic mushrooms 
 in a given map. Because the game relies a lot on having you replay certain levels to find all the 
 collectibles, it's somewhat frustrating to not receive immediate feedback on what you've gotten 
 out of searching every nook and cranny. Despite that flaw, it's still pretty fun to explore each 
 of the game's levels the first time, fighting the monsters and finding the Triwizard shields.  
 

  The Triwizard challenges you unlock also help mix up the gameplay, as they're different in nature 
 from the standard levels. The Triwizard challenges follow the template used in the book and the 
 film; one challenge has Harry fly off on his broom with a dragon in pursuit, while another has 
 Harry explore the depths of the Black Lake. These levels don't involve any exploration or collection -- they're 
 pretty much linear races, with some light combat involved.  

          You'll explore various levels looking for Triwizard shields.     

  Graphically, The 
 Goblet of Fire is competent, excelling the most in its environment. For example, as you scale the 
 towers and roofs of Hogwarts, you can see the surrounding buildings of the school grounds in the 
 distance. The dragon that chases you through your first play of the Forbidden Forest is also quite 
 imposing and impressive visually. Spell effects also look impressive, making use of particles and 
 other lighting effects. However, the character models look pretty small on screen and don't animate 
 particularly well. What's most disappointing is that the game never leverages any media from the 
 film, aside from still shots used to decorate the cards. The cutscenes in the game are comic-like 
 in their style, not unlike the cover art of the books. Though they still offer an air of authenticity, 
 the frugal nature of the cutscenes seems oddly deflating given the visual splendor Potter fans 
 have come to expect from the films. The four platforms look quite similar in general, with the 
 Xbox and PC versions offering the sharpest graphics, and the PS2 and GameCube versions looking 
 somewhat muddier in comparison. As far as sound goes, the spells and creature effects seem pretty 
 good, as does the music used in the menus and during cutscenes. The voice acting used in the game 
 can get somewhat repetitive over time.  

  As a platformer aimed at the younger crowd of Potter fans, The Goblet of Fire does a good job at 
 delivering an experience that is in line with the plot of the books. Even if you're an older fan 
 of the Harry Potter books, the game is still worth checking out, especially if you've got two other 
 friends to play the game in three-player cooperative mode. It's definitely not quite as awe-inspiring 
 an experience as seeing the films, but if you want a more interactive take on what it might be 
 like to be in the world of magic, The Goblet of Fire video game will suit you just fine.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cabby44
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge Harry Potter fan and have enjoyed all the movies, books, and games, except for Harry 
 Potter and the Goblet of Fire game. In all of the other games in the series you have the free ability 
 to explore the castle; finding all sorts of goodies on the way... Once again, except for this one. 
 Basicly the whole game you have to fight annoying creatures, and gets very boring. Also, pay no 
 attention to the back of the box where it says: Explore the Magic of Hogwarts . For god sakes, 
 you never see the damn castle. This is coming from a HUGE Harry Potter fan, so... just don't bother 
 guys and gals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good if you like action/adventure games or anything to do with Harry Potter. 
 It has a lot of action and is better than the previous Harry Potter games but it is short. Graphics 
 are pretty good but I have seen better.
  
  Gameplay is great. You basiclly run around holding your wand and when an enemy comes you kill them 
 by pressing the buttons. Basic fun. Only problem is that the game requires you to replay some levels 
 to unlock Triwizard shields and other unlockables in the game. 
  
  Sound is ok. Voice acting is not so great but it's ok. It just gets really repetitive. The music 
 is decent and can really build up the mood of the level but definetly not great.
  
  Overall it is a pretty decent fun action/adventure game that Harry Potter fans and action fans 
 will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the goblet of fire
  The game is not really based on the movie but there's still the Triwizard Tournament and the same 
 characters and maybe ending, cause I didn't finish the game.
  Like I said the only thing that is based on the movie is the tasks that you have to do. Because 
 there's some monsters that we've never seen before and that you've got to collect pieces of something 
 to unlock levels and tasks.
  The combat system is quite fun but annoying after a couple of hours because it's always the same 
 button to attack the foe. But there's other button so you can do the famous Windguardium Leviosa 
 and more.
  So... that's it! I don't lot to say so I hope you enjoyed my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youtack
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  A good game for new Harry Potter video game fans, But a disapointment for older ones. In the past 
 ones you got to explore the castle and find wizard cards. In this exactly the oppasite. Now you 
 have levles and not even one secret.! Gameplay is very difficult and when your battling creatures 
 there allways seems to be more waiting for you. However if you are a Harry Potter fan you would 
 still probally enjoy playing this game like I did. Even though it is pretty bad casting spells 
 now are funner and collecting beans to unlock bonus cards is fun too. The first time you play each 
 level is exciting, but when you have to find tri-wizard sheilds it gets slightly boring. It also 
 has great graphics which also makes it grow on you. Even though it is nowhere as good as earlier 
 Harry Potter games, it will entertain you to a point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GravityManNo25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  The game immediately starts the quest without further adu. It is almost like the programmers expect 
 you know how to play. I liked the previous PC game style in which, every class taught a new spell, 
 step by step. After about an hour, it was easier. The game really didn't tell you what to do so 
 it was like a restricted adventure so-to-speak. Previously, you could roam the school and explore. 
 Now it gets straight to the task on hand. I did enjoy the collection of cards that could be bought 
 with Bertie Bott's Beans. No matter how many times a level was played, it always varied with difficulty 
 depending on what cards were chosen. Overall, this game became highly addictive finding all of 
 the hidden items. At least it seemed almost real with the better designed graphics. I can't wait 
 for the next game to come out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastStrider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Fellow harry potter fan listen up! GET THIS GAME! This is probably the best in the harry potter 
 game series. Everytime a harry potter game came out a lot of new features were added while some 
 deleted. The best part of this game is the amazing improved graphics. Spells are no longer a simple 
 stream of light but fancy streams of flower, whirlpool, stream of birds and sea of baloons. The 
 game camera angle changed. Now you look from above like RPG. The beans are still here if you wonder... and 
 now you can chooose which character you wanna play as HArry Ron or Hermione. Theg ame play is also 
 very very nice. Jinx and charms sperated casting at all times. Big improvements I say. and there 
 are a lot of cards ytou can unlock which are screenshots of the official movie. In other areas 
 the game went back wards for example you can no longer walk around Hogwarts freely all the time 
 (easier to find next level) so a lot of the new interesting stuff in HP 3 and HP 2 are gone (no 
 more marauder's map and hidden corners... no more hogwarts walk around , no more Gryfindor common 
 room....= ( Another thing is that... there are barely any story lines in this and i think the producer 
 should use more criteria from the movie like Gamespot reviewer said. You select levels from a screen 
 now (pensive) which is easy to choose but little fun...
  
  You gotta play a lot of levels again and again to find all of the shields
  
  Well if you HP 
 fan you like if not dont bother... it is only meant for harry potter people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I thought that it would be great, considering the books were awesome. 
 I was seriously mistaken. I was greatly disappointed in many aspects of this game... I would have 
 thought EA games would have put a little more effort to make this game actually fun for people, 
 when they know Harry Potter is very popular. It is also VERY repetitive throughout the whole game, 
 which becomes frustrating and boring.
  
  You are forced to re-do levels many times.
  You get seriously frustrated while your character is continually knocked down and attacked by biting, 
 buzzing mosquito moth things...
  The screams of your characters as they are attacked begin to annoy...
  The only options that 
 you can change are Subtitles and Auto-Save . Who cares about those!!!!
  You choose from a menu which levels you are to replay. It doesn't feel like your playing a story 
 from this way of doing levels..
  You are constantly being showered with goodies, which takes away the feeling of reward when you 
 get these treats.
  
  Although the graphics, characters and creatures look fairly realistic, it hardly makes up for the 
 disastrous everything else . I am forced to conclude that Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was 
 not a good game, and if you are hell bent on getting it, rent it first.
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_da_gamer
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics of the game are great I think that the game itself is a really big let down. 
 You have to play it level by level and after each level you complete all you can do is go onto 
 the next level. You dont have the fun of exploring the castle and the game does represent the 
 book, the film or the other Harry Potter games very well at all. The game has put me of future 
 Harry Potter games and I will not buy them unless the game play reverts back to its original state, 
 like the game play on the first 3 Harry Potter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmajin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I got this game from a friend. At the time of getting this game, my computer sucked. It had a really 
 old graphics card. I did'nt think this game would run on my computer considering the awesome pics 
 of the game on the back of the box. When I tried running the game you could imagine my surprise 
 when the game worked. Sure you could see that the far off background of the levels was literally 
 a board but this game still showed awesome graphics and incredible gameplay.
  
  When it comes to graphics this game is pretty current. It really does a good job of showing the 
 characters' faces and the cutscenes are amazing. The spells and their effects are incredibly created 
 in this game. Also, pretty much everything you saw in the movie, you get to play in the game. The 
 First, Second, and Third Triwizard challenges are all available to play.
  
  Overall this game is awesome. The movie is perfectly adapted onto this game and side quests are 
 also included. It's perfect for any Harry Potter fans and if you feel like trying it you should. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superks
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I would say that this is a game for kids and kids only. No doubts there maybe be good graphics 
 and quite a bit of action, the game itself managed to transform a great book into well, an action 
 game. (and action only) . There are a few puzzles for you to solve as they would want you to find 
 shields mushrooms and dragon statues but hey would soon become kids play as you go along. The really 
 isn't much possitive points for this game to talk about.
  
  If you are below the age of 15 and would like spam spells and destory things, you may like to try 
 out this game, if not, maybe you should go for other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelly3546
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  If anyone thinks that the game is just like the movie, they are in for a shock... it is not! I found 
 the game, frustrating at first, getting used to using my keyboard instead of the mouse. Once I 
 got used to playing the game using my keyboard, I was ok. The game is fun, and even better as a 
 multi-player. I have enjoyed playing the game alone and with my kids, besides I needed my son, 
 to get through the flying part of the game.... he is way better at that stuff...
  
  All in all, I would say that this game was a terrific Christmas present, indeed. (Y) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clarke_311
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the other Potter games where you get to explore the castles and do 
 lots of fun challenges when I bought this game. When I started to play it I liked it but it wasn't 
 the same as the other games. If you are a big fan of the old Harry Potter games this might not 
 be the game for you but if you didn't like the other games you might want to check this out. In 
 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire you select a level and you're automadicly there. The enviorments 
 are way different and you don't do the spell lessons or the spell challenges. You also have to 
 repeat levels again and again sometimes. I have enjoyed this game but still dissapointed that it 
 isn't like the old Potter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incredibleman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire Video Game Is Well Worth It. For Computers The Graphics Arent 
 Good With Out A GeForce Video Card Or Athlons ones. Okay This Game Can Be Easy Or Hard It Took 
 Me A Day To Pass The Prefects Bathroom Level but It Only Took 22 Minutes On Herbolagy. If Your 
 Thinking About Getting It On Nitendo DS Dont! It Is Not Worth It. So If You Want To Get A New Game 
 Get This On Xbox Or Gamecube Or Playstation 2. You Get To Choose Who You Play As In This Game Which 
 is Either Harry, Ron Or Hermione. And Your Freinds Can Play With You Too. When I Got This Game I 
 Was Thinking Boring... But When i Played It I Realised It Was Good. Unfortuanly There Is No Cheats 
 So Put That Notepad Away When You Look Up This Game. This Game Is A Masterpiece. I WillUpdate This 
 Later Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marthapartha
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  If you like being stung with giant bees, bitten by alligator-like animals, burned with acid from 
 tuberous plants and mushrooms, shot at with darts, and being singed to death by fire breathing 
 salamanders while listening to derogatory remarks uttered by the virtual characters to one another, 
 you will love this game. If you are wondering what all the above has to do with the storyline of 
 the "Goblet of Fire", hey!, so am I, and I am a Potter-head. 
  
  The PC version is next to impossible to play by a single player. The player (or sucker in this 
 case) chooses a character he or she wishes to play as: Harry, Ron or Hermione. After the choice 
 is made, the other two unchosen characters just pretty much get in your way the rest of the game. 
 They are known as the "computer controlled characters" who are supposed to engage in joint spell 
 casting and help you on your journey by defeating horrific monsters and clear safe passage over 
 treacherous terrain. Much, much, much more often than not, instead of assisting you, they wander 
 off and close a gate or bridge that had just been opened or closed, drop a small boulder on themselves 
 or adjacent character, squirt themselves or you with plant acid, or wander into poisonous acid 
 secreting mushrooms. On the time challenges for Moody, they pretty much stand in line of your firing 
 sight, making the game irritating as all get out. 
  
  Its pretty much listening to three teens scream and yell as they are singed, pummeled with darts, 
 stung and bitten. The only relief from the sadistic, relentless torture is the either stupid or 
 derogatory remarks the characters make to one-another. 
  
  What a lousy time to have. I 'd rather attend a family reunion than play this game. 
  
  MJH 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  It is a harry potter game. What would you expect from it? Hmmmm? A huge adventure with lots of 
 freedom and content to explore? It is a harry potter game, nothing more. The only reason I got 
 this game was so I could get something for my borther's birthday. This game is terrible. He is 
 8 (about the age of people who would play this game) and he hated it. The levels are lame, the 
 challenges are lame, but I have to say... for a game like harry potterk, the graphics weren't horrible. 
 This is probably the best in the harry potter series but that is just because of the graphics. 
 It is just like any other harry potter game... boring! If you or your younger brother or sister 
 are thinking of getting this game, don't, you will feel like you wasted 30 bucks on something that 
 will just sit on your shelf for the rest of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prisim_92
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Compared to the other editions this version is a disappointment for all the 
  Harry Potter fans. The graphics seems to have been stuck between human and cartoonish?...
  
 
  The gameplay revolves around doing quests to pass rounds and after playing the first 2 rounds, 
 you`ll play it just for the sake of playing it......
  
  The cameras are computer controlled and can be very very irritating, the character cards are movie 
 screenshots.... disappointing compared to the previous versions....
  
  If your a hardcore harry potter or gaming fan I`d suggest saving the trouble of buying this and 
 save it for some other game...
  
  All in all EA WHAT WERE YOU THINKING? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  this is definently the worst game i have played and i only like the graphics and sound
  it is easy short stupid andrealy makes me anoyed i hate all the levels except for the first task
 
  it is also dumb cos it is the shortest in the series and you have to get sheilds to move on to 
 the next level! 
  i think it sucks and it is the worst electronic arts production ever!
  id rather play harry potter one much better than this one and the cutscenes suck cos its like a 
 stupid comic
  so if i were you i would keep away from it if you haven't played the other harry potter games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  People familiar with the Harry Potter series of games have become familiar dealing with the various 
 puzzles, casting different spells, and following Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger 
 through the campy tale of the books. What will come as a surprise, however, is that Goblet of Fire 
 takes the series in a new directionsort of. The newest chapter of Harry Potter games strays away 
 from its roots and seems more like the PC-version of Prisoner of Azkaban.
  
  This is because of the switch to a context sensitive spell-casting system. Previous Potter games 
 let you assign specific spells to certain buttons. The PC version of Azkaban introduced context-sensitive 
 spells that relied on a single button to perform multiple types of casts. This is the new format 
 that has been adopted in PC and console versions of Goblet. With one button the puzzles are easily 
 figured out. If you walk up to a closed gate, youll automatically cast Carpe Retractum to open 
 it up. Need to make a bridge of lily pads? Not a problem with Herbivicus.
  
  Most of these spells will be used to get past the games various puzzles. These obstacles range 
 in difficulty from easy to laughably easy. Youll quickly figure out which blocks need moving, 
 what walls need to be smashed, and how to get past hallways of fire. These puzzles are broken up 
 by the tri-wizard competitions which boil down to various races. The new spell casting system has 
 taken most of the thinking out of the game and replaced it with methods that are straightforward 
 and simplistic. This is good for younger players, but plays a little too easy for the millions 
 of adult Harry Potter fans who may be interested in the game. 
  
  No matter the age, the purpose of the puzzles is the collection of tri-wizard and mini tri-wizard 
 shields, which are used to gain access to later levels to advance the storyline. Each stage has 
 multiple shields to collect but you wont get them all on the first try. Goblet of Fire has a fair 
 amount of backtracking and once you learn new spells youll be forced to go back through old levels 
 to find new areas to explore. None of these are a surprise either, as these areas are a short sprint 
 away from locations youve already been. Youll see the late-level areas which are typically 
 blocked by a wall of boulders or sticks until you learn the right cast. You can then use your new 
 spells to obtain the newly-revealed shields.
  
  But not everything is easy spell-casting. There is some combat, handled through jinxes, that lets 
 you be creative in how you dispatch enemies. Theres the straightforward jinx, which casts a blast 
 of magical energy that will stun and kill enemies. But you can combine casts to pull off combos 
 that have interesting results. For example, if one character is casting Wingardium Leviosa, a jinx 
 attack may result in Orbus, which spins an enemy into the ground. Other combinations turn adversaries 
 into rabbits, birds and caterpillars. .
  
  Once abolished, these enemies explode into a cluster of beans which are yours for the taking. Beans 
 have multiple functions and can replace stamina, increase the duration of your super-magic power 
 up, and a currency to purchase collector cards. Cards are available for all three characters and 
 have a variety of effects. You can boost your characters overall stamina, increase the amount of 
 jinxes per attack, use friendship cards to regenerate lost health, and up the power on your Accio 
 spell, which draws any nearby beans or powerups directly to you. Before the start of each level 
 youll get the opportunity to customize your characters with certain cards. This works to your 
 advantage if youre visiting a level again, where you already know what enemies youll be facing 
 and which cards will work best.
  
  Even before you assign the cards youll have to pick a wizard for the duration of a level. Goblet 
 of Fire doesnt allow you to switch characters in mid-mission, which may cause some frustration 
 if you need to bail the AI out. The games artificial intelligence is a mixed bag. In combat, your 
 two accomplices can handle themselves adequately. Theyll often cast a specific spell right before 
 you press the button, meaning they know how to interpret situations and act appropriately. That 
 doesnt mean they arent without problems. The AI is easily hung up on objects like poisonous patches 
 of mushrooms or a rock. Sometimes it will figure out to walk around but more often than not youll 
 have to backtrack to lead the character in a different direction. The AI also has a bad habit of 
 climbing onto rocks before casting a levitation spell on the very same chunk of earthresulting 
 in them tumbling to the ground.
  
  That ground doesnt look too bad either thanks to an upgraded engine from EA. The graphics wont 
 blow you away, but are nothing to shun away from either. A lot of work was put into the particle 
 effects for the various spells and it shows. Each cast explodes to life with a variety of colors. 
 The three main characters are modeled well with enemies and environmental objects adequately textured. 
 The animations are fluid and there are no signs of skipping frame rates throughout the game. This 
 excellence of presentation extends into the audio, with each of the three main actors delivering 
 solid performances. Sound effects are unique enough to distinguish from each other and the soundtrack 
 screams Harry Potter.
  
  Overall, Goblet of Fire is a decent platforming game. It may have dumbed down the puzzles a bit, 
 but whats there is a solid lump of gameplay. This game is more suited to younger fans of the series 
 but adults may find themselves wandering around the Forbidden Forest in search of tri-wizard shields 
 too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: comentryme
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  sorry, but i cant stress that enough....
  on with the review....
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  a top-down platformer? what happened to the whole "explore hogwarts" thing whenever you wanted? 
 im sorry... but it just didnt appeal to me...
  
  Graphics 5/10
  terrible. these look like the graphics of those low budget games made for 8 year olds!... and to 
 think.... the movie was said to be getting more mature, and too scary for little kids.... however 
 i have seen worse. in those low budget games made for 8 year olds.
  
  Sound 8/10
  the one thing i like about this game, but its nowhere near enough to save it. good music, nice 
 pacing and all, the obvious high point.
  
  as much as i liked the first one, the second one (despite load times) , and the last one.... i cannot 
 say ANYTHING for this...
  
  DISCLAIMER.
  FOR "HARDCORE" HARRY POTTER FANS ONLY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenfalcor
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  When you first start out playing, the camera angle seems annoying and the fact that you can not 
 use a mouse for anything is a drawback, however, once you get past the first couple of levels, 
 it becomes much more fun. Although the game was geared toward a younger audience, it is still a 
 little too easy. I had this problem with all of the Harry Potter games. They are all very easy 
 and very short. This is the first time I've played on PC, The first two where with PS2 and the 
 third with xbox. I have to say I favor the PC over all the platforms. You might be better off to 
 rent it first if you're not a die-hard Harry Potter fan. However it is great to play again, there 
 are a couple of little sub-missions in the game that add a little more time to it. Overall, I'd 
 say it's worth buying, but maybe waiting a couple months for it to drop in price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atoranjugan
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Sad. Thats the first word that comes to mind. With the success of the books and the movies, you 
 would think they could put down serious paper for a great game.
  
  Sadly, thats not the case.
  
  Goblet of Fire is a game that appeals to no one. I am a fan of 
 the Harry Potter series and have read all the current books, watched all the movies, and even beaten 
 the first three games. But by the fourth game, you would think they would know the right way to 
 make the game.
  
  Goblet of Fire isn't an easy game for a little kid. I found it to be more difficult than I expected. 
 Even worse is that I was actually looking forward to this game being the best one yet! You have 
 dragons, merpeople, and a bunch of things in the challenges that are great for a game. But Goblet 
 of Fire is a sloppy game that shouldn't have been released. I felt guilty for having finished that 
 game.
  
  Overall, it sucks. Hopefully this will be a lesson to the developers to go back to the older games' 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torontogamegal
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  I really was excited to buy this game since I really loved playing the others . My first impression 
 was great since the had the characters look like the actors from the film and they were also 3D 
 instead of the 2D ones from the previous games. What I found disappointing was the game play and 
 the controls were hard. 
  
  I really liked the mouse play from the previous games where you could highlight what you wanted 
 and the right spell would just show up instead of having to aim. I also found them a bit slow in 
 that it took a long time to do the simplest of spells or to move around.
  
  The way the game progressed seemed very hard in the sense that you couldn't wander around, or really 
 interact with anything. I myself only got to the second part of the Castle Exteriors before I got 
 REALLY bored. I think that EA should've kept the same format as before and try not to change it 
 as much as they did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  What to say. EA have disappointed everyone who would have expected a classic. the gameplay is really 
 very poor. The grapics are quite good though it would not be able to save the game from being a 
 failure. Harry does not put on his school robes in this one. The previous versions are a bit better 
 than this one. I think it is a total waste of time thinking about this game. It is not very boring 
 but yes not that exciting also. You cannot change the controls and the resolution in this game. 
 EA should have done something about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  this game is so lame... the graphic is fine (not more then that)
  the game not the same like the movie (but few missions are)
  and if you harry /hermayoni /ron.... so 
 the other are so stuped....
  if you need to move somthing big... so they need to help you but
  they are so stuped that they 
 are messing with somthing ellse....
  and its ssooo boring... because ther are stuff that not in the movie
  like cretures.... so this 
 game sucks and dont worth to buy it or even rent it...!!!
  leave that game in the stores and dont even look behind it... dont touch it
  dont look at it.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tshiznit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out fairly simple and easy; the controls are different, but easy to get the hang 
 of, and the levels are fun. It ended when I got to Herbology. I got through the first greenhouse, 
 defeated the fire creatures, and lowered the drawbridges... and now I can't figure out how to get 
 anywhere else! (Please post a message on the message board for me. the gamespot tyrants have not 
 let me use the message boards for some reason; not because I did something bad, mind you.) The 
 worst part of the game, believe it or not, is the graphics. Not that they aren't awesome as well, 
 but the graphics are still somewhat pixelated (the one part of the game that isn't all it's cracked 
 up to be) , maybe it's just my computer, but my computor is fairly new. Still great graphics, though. 
 Get it if your ready for a change in controls and feel, but if not, either suck it up and buy the 
 game anyway, or go moaning about the differences like so many people have done before you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caydenbloodmoon
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:29 am PT
Review:  When I found out that they were making a new HP game with "great" graphics that was "very" interactive, 
 I just had to get it. It was a complete disapointment from the moment I got it. 
  Let's start with the graphics. They were archaic. In fact they were almost worse than the first 
 Harry Potter Game. Ugh. It was all cloudy and foggy on the game, so you couldn't see anything. 
 Next is the gameplay. You don't get to roam around the castle anymore, my main reason for playing 
 it, but instead you get unbelievably easy levels which all seem the same. It is nearly impossible 
 to maneuver the characters. You also don't use the left mouse button for spells, you use a million 
 keys for various, hard to get right, spells, charms, and jinxes. The only redeeming quality of 
 this game is the spells. Your character actually moves as if he/she is having difficulty with the 
 spell.
  All in all though, this was a real bad game. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is appaling. Absolutely 
 awful. It took away everything that was good about the other HP games and created a monster. This 
 game is pitiful. EA should be ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seqkat
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  Having all three of the Harry Potter games for the PC - Sorcerer's Stone, Chamber of Secret and 
 the Prisoner of Azkaban - I was so excited to get this as a Christmas gift and could barely wait 
 to play. I LOVE all three of the other games, and play them over and over and over - all the tiime!
 
  
  When I started this game I was terribly SHOCKED with DISAPPOINTMENT! This game failed miserably 
 to follow the style of the 3 preceding games. The characters and their surroundings are smaller. 
 And the biggest kicker - was there was no use of the mouse!! What a cheap game!!!!!! There's no 
 more A W S D controls anymore either and no navigating turns with the mouse and not even casting 
 spells with the mouse! And there are no options to rectify these either! And you can't even use 
 the enter key - you have to keep hitting space bar instead!? Which throws all the years of using 
 a keyboard, where everyone hits enter for everything, right out the window. You have to keep THINKING 
 to hit the space bar, instead of just using the keyboard without thought.
  
  There's no more 360 degree rotation, and no more viewing the scenery around you. You pretty much 
 are forced to see what the makers of this game only want you to see. Again - a CHEAP game but for 
 a steep price! EA really cheated us out in this one! I can't believe this game was released!
  
  The graphics are the only thing that are good - and that is of what you're ALLOWED to see of 
 them.
  
  You have to use the cursors to move around which is so irritating - as the up and down arrows make 
 you do 180 degree's frontwards and backwards, while left and right make you do 180 degrees to your 
 sides. This is really tough when one of the 1000's of salamanders are coming at you. You can't 
 fight the blasted things, because you can't properly FACE them, fighting with the arrow keys! And 
 if you can't face it, you can't cast your spells at it.
  
  I gave it a good try the first day - very aggravated, and very disappointed. The 2nd day I went 
 to resume play and just grew ANGRY in less than 10 minutes! I stopped playing, and am planning 
 to take it back to the store to see if I can get my money back! This game is AWFUL! And again, 
 I stress it's very CHEAPLY made! This is not Harry Potter quality by any means, and is NOT EA quality 
 either. I don't know how J K Rowling stands her Harry Potter name on the game, and I can't believe 
 EA would allow their name to be applied to theis game. J K Rowling writes great stories - she doesn't 
 make games - so she maintains my FULLEST respect. EA however, just slid down the bar BIG time.
 
  
  They need to do a MAJOR REVISION of this game. Also, I know that I will NOT buy ANY EA game EVER 
 again, without reading customer reviews first. You hear that EA?? I'm listening to the customers 
 - NOT your marketing, and not even your past achievements, as you were brilliant with the preceding 
 3 games, to only let us down terribly with this one!
  
  REVISE THE GAME - EA!!! That's all I've got to say! And for Pete's sake DO NOT repeat this disaster 
 for Order of the Phoenix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_cool12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:47 am PT
Review:  i think this game is juz okey... but i cant change the screean thing... i could have bough it for 
 the gamecube but ii cant find any!!!! heres the things :
  
  Gameplay : i only thing i like bout the game is the gameplay and i can play with 2 more of my friends 
 to come. the spells are not dat hard to cast out but the controls.... i CANT change it!!!!! man 
 dats the thing i hate about this game
  
  Graphics : is nice at least its better then the other ones... and i think i have nothing more to 
 say...
  
  Sound : its absoluty amazing! its music is better
  
  and i think i got nothing to say more... 
  
  overall : this game is juz okey not dat hard and 
 not to easy... but thers sum things disappointing bout this game... but im not really sure if its 
 woreft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delryn
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  So, let's start of with the basics. We have Harry, Ron and Hermione returning in the so far most 
 action-based, and multiplayer required Harry Potter game. The first thing most gamers will notice, 
 as many other reviewers is the lacking options menu. Seems the deadline made EA skip the most simple 
 of things. Well, the game looks fair on a decent computer, and the sound is well organized, but 
 the real trouble is the controls. I don't know how many times I've pressed Accio instead of a jinx. 
 You don't use your mouse, and your character walks in a slow, 'I don't want to stop when you tell 
 me to' sort of way. Also the fact that you don't use your mouse, means that you have to take aim 
 with your keys, and that is a hell.
  
  Well, returning to the graphics and general layout, I think it hasn't been improved that much. 
 The main characters look more realistic than in the past few, and also more adult-like. The spells 
 looks awesome for the first few hours, and then you don't pay attention. Also, why does Hermione 
 get credit for everything, when it was Harry I played, and it was I who solved the riddles? Really 
 strange. Oh and Moody has the nasty habit of yelling at you, telling you that you must pull yourself 
 together, even if you just took down a dozen dugbogs.
  
  The whole gameplay is linear and typically 'platformy'. It is like the Star Wars III game and Lord 
 of the Rings, with the exception of this time, you use a variety of spells. Speaking of that, you 
 never really knew when the spell would occur, and if you had to do something for it to conjure. 
 Basically you will tap the jinx button, and do just that through most of the game, except when 
 you have to move a big rock or something like that. The only interesting thing to do, after you 
 have killed dugbogs, salamanders and other kinds of monsters, is the Triwizard challenges. These 
 actually challenge you, and are fast and actionfilled, in a manner that actually makes you think 
 'good I've spend money on this game.' Well almost anyway. In one you race a dragon and time on 
 a broom, dodging its flames and trees and stuff. In the second you swim, again mostly against time, 
 while killing grindelows. Lastly you run around in a maze, again trying to be the first and fastest. 
 Unfortunately, the most challenging bit in this game is using the controls, NOT completing the 
 actual missions.
  
  Lastly, there are the AI. Why on EARTH doesn't Ron move when standing on one of those Blubertubes? 
 He just gets killed, and then you start over again. The good part is the multiplayer thing, where 
 one can just jump in, and go crazy, while pressing the jinx button. Again, I believe it is almost 
 REQUIRED to have another to play with. It's sad but true.
  
  Oh, and the last thing, that might set things in a bit better light is the wizards card system, 
 and your gathering of blue Bertie beans, which grants you extraordinary powers. The card system 
 grants you some bonus to your stats, where you attach three cards to each player, to help them 
 become more powerful. The maximus magic thing, I don't really remember what's called, is as said 
 gained when you have gathered a sufficient amount of blue beans. You then press a button, and fireworks 
 will start. Literally. It is a treat for the eye, but it doesn't last long, and you usually don't 
 have the patience to wait unleashing your power for the boss fights.
  
  So basically one should buy it, if you like killing, smashing, bashing games, in an easy quite 
 satisfying way. If you don't, and believe me, in the end you really don't, buy Star Wars III or 
 Spartan: Total Warrior, or perhaps Battlefield, and wait for the next game, to be much better. 
 It just has to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  Did you like Gauntlet? I mean, did you really like Gauntlet? Seriously, I mean all of them, even 
 the ones with the lame jester character and warriors that throw endless amounts of axes? Okay, 
 then you are prepared for Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
  
  Now I admit to not being a Harry Potter fan. I don't stay up at night with an official Hogwart's 
 scarf wrapped around my neck and read the books into the wee hours of the night wishing I could 
 use questionable Latin phrases to cast magic spells, and treat muggles as social pariahs that are 
 only worthy of my contempt. So as far as I knew Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire entirely syncs 
 up with not only the movie, but the literature as well. I was apparently incorrect.
  
  
  So I employed (coerced) a couple of friends to determine whether the game was any good on other 
 levels not normally available to me. Chris was my Harry Potter expert. He has read all the books, 
 and viewed all the movies. Sarah has nothing but contempt for Harry Potter and is noted for harassing 
 its fans with threats of violence and emotional abuse. With my crack team of experts at hand the 
 game was on.
  
  
  One thing Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire has in it's favor is multiplayer. You and two friends 
 can play as Harry, Hermoine, or Ron. I chose Harry, as I hate all things Ron related, and am not 
 emotionally developed enough to play a girl. Sarah was forced to play Hermoine because she is a 
 girl, and Chris played Ron and was subjected to abject humiliation by the other players, and even 
 at times, himself. Ron sucks.
  
  
  (This is a good time to bring up Hermoine's facial expression, which is transfixed between angry, 
 and possibly experiencing a painful memory at all times.)
  
  The game opens up with a lackluster video which sums up the plot of the game (which mirrors the 
 film and I will not expand upon) and gives the illusion of being three dimensional, but is in fact 
 a still image panning and scanning across the screen. What would have been nice would be scenes 
 from the feature film as in such EA licenses as The Lord of the Rings. However, panning and scanning 
 seemed a more favored approach.
  
  
  In the beginning the gameplay was actually entertaining. The spells are simple, but flashy, and 
 therefore interesting in the "Ooo Ahhh" manner. The most favored spell by our cadre was the levitate 
 spell. Latin name "Who Cares", this spell allows you to levitate enemies and huge boulders, which 
 can be swung around and thrown into other enemies and players. This often led to the famous "Smash 
 Ron with a boulder" mini game. I'm not entirely sure that intended by the developers, but it was 
 a highlight to us.
  
  
  As in other games (Gauntlet) the progression of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire became tedious 
 after a few levels. Enemies are over replicated, as are puzzles, and objectives. This is not to 
 say there weren't innovations in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Cooperative, team oriented, 
 goals require players to work together to solve objectives beyond the "Everyone kill everything" 
 bread and butter scenario. These too were replicated. However there were further issues that brought 
 our fun to halt.
  
  
  During critical moments in the game the camera would swing behind a tree or a pillar and obscure 
 all players from view. During one climatic scene we were treated to an audio extravaganza as our 
 players were roasted alive by a dragon as the camera was positioned conveniently behind a bush.
 
  
  
  Objectives are not always clear, and at times, are not said at all. Many a mission we threatened 
 to turn the game off if we didn't figure out what to do in the next ten minutes.
  
  Especially irritating is as a character moves to the edge of the screen he will implore other characters 
 to follow him by whining at them in British, which makes you dislike the characters even more, 
 especially Ron who seems to be going through an endless puberty.
  
  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire will be good for your kids. According to recent polls children 
 have low standards and love Harry Potter. Also it's not too complicated when you know what to do 
 next. Unfortunately for the discerning gamer/Potter fan it's not something that really stands up 
 next to it's film and book namesakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beck989
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  into the English language. The most frustrating thing is the game controls. They are truly infuriating. 
 Trying to play in the forest level was just a nightmare. Graphics are fine, and maybe there's an 
 idea of a game somewhere in this mess, but it certainly hasn't come to fruition yet. If I was J. K. 
 I'd be kickin' somebody's butt for allowing her characters to associated with such an atrocious 
 endeavor. You can quit reading now the rest of this is just filler to get to the required 100 word 
 limit. Perhaps the concept less is more should come into play here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashevm
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  It's like that, this Harry Potter game in my opinion is the best of the sequel, the spell casting 
 is very good, it changed for better, in the previous games it was just pointing the mouse to the 
 target and release. in this one you can make combinations and make your own game play style. You 
 adapt spells in the way you want. I even use to play with the rocks near the cliffs in one way 
 that wouldn't be possible in the previous HP games. It is even more practical, in my opinion, makes 
 your hand in a more ready position. Many people say it's not comfortable, but it's good to me. 
 The game play perspective was also mentioned but NOW is the moment it's right. I'm not a normal 
 HP games player. I care about catching all the beans and do not make the missions in a hurry. I 
 look for the secrets and stuff. The graphics are good and the sound is OK. But there are also a 
 few disadvantages: the reduced options (for the controls, no problem to me, for the resolution... 
 it's no matter, but the sound options and the graphics options should exist, though) and the game 
 is a bit easy. But in general, I like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amdance
Rating: 1.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I`M A BIG HARRY POTTER FAN, I`VE READ THE BOOKS, SEE THE MOVIES, PLAY THE GAMES, I LIKED POAZKABAN 
 PC GAME, BUT THIS ONE.. THIS ONE!! IS BORING, THE GRAPHICS ARE TERRIBLE, POA HAD BETTER... LOT BETTER. 
 I DON'T LIKE IT, A SHAME, PLEASE FIX IT!!. A WASTE OF TIME, A WASTE OF MONEY. i've heared people 
 saying that this game was dissapinting, terrible, but i think... OK, i hace to play it before take 
 that words, and now I`m saying that. The graphics are terrible, the sound is not bad, just normal, 
 there are a lot of things I wanted to play and are not in the game. The controls are as bad as 
 the graphics, there are no way to change 'em. The "options" meny are riddiculus, please EA, make 
 a veri big PATCH or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortel3
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Terrible. Thats all i have to say.
  
  
  
  aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowmanera
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  This is a disaster
  
  Looks to have been thrown together as a Christmas come on
  
  Difficult to know what you have to do and there is nothing in the manual (ha ha) to point you
 
  
  the characters get in each others way
  
  The keyboard controls are terrible
  Most kids will have a problem
  Probably improve if you use a game pad
  
  No way to control 
 the volume if you're using a multimedia keyboard and headphones because the keyboard controls are 
 disabled.
  
  Good graphics tho
  
  Total waste of cash as far as I'm concerned and this is one for ebay I reckon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felix_120192
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is terrible... feels like a game of super mario for pete's sake! First of all... no options 
 at all, no resolution, no controls chaning... the only option is auto-save and subtitles... i mean 
 WTF!!!
  
  Second of all... its like a game of super mario, It isnt one school... its like 9 diffrent Levels... 
 no journeying around the school, its total crap... doesnt feel like a school at all...
  
  Third of all... for god sakes... how bout some real controls, after 2 years of counter-strike how 
 do u expect me to use the arrow keys and "z" "x" "c" and "s"....
  
  Fourth of all... how bout sticking to the plot of the book or the movie... this story is completly 
 off...
  
  Fifth and last of all... u hardly meet any fellow student or characters... in this game, all i 
 saw for most of the game is ron hermoine and harry and mad-eye... thats all i saw... (oh and also 
 death-eater and ron's dad)
  
  As i conclusion, i think you are better off sticking to 1,2 or 3... they provide much better game 
 play and value plus they cost way less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_prince_1981
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  Well as my review deck says...... Some of the bad things of the older harry potter games got better, 
 like for example th extreme easyness, I finished PoA in 5 hours, and I wasn't even in a hurry! 
 But they toughned the game up a little bit, making you play longer (the triwizard shield prerequisites 
 helped on that subject to) . Also the fact that you can now play all three the charactars whenever 
 you want makes the game more fun. The "card upgrading system" is also a clever discovery that makes 
 the game more intresting. The bad things are that you can no longer freely roam hogwart like you 
 could do in the last two games, you can only play levels now, which I found a little dissapointing. 
 They also made the controls a lbit more arcade style, whil the mouse-keyboard controls of the last 
 three games were perfect. But overall GoF is a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I really enjoyed it.
  
  Gameplay: You can play one of three players and then you go and fight some bad guys. The cards 
 addition in this game is very cool and the magics and combo system are very sweet.
  
  Graphics: I was a little disappointed about this game's graphics. The areas look nice but the heroes 
 could have been a lot better.
  
  Sound: The sound of the magic is unbelivible and the soundtracks are very nice and sweet.
  
 
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game and get all the cards. If there 
 was an online feature then this game could have been the best harry potter game ever.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a great sequal to the harry potter series and you should 
 definitely go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolferyn
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  Quite ok for the Harry Potter fans. Though, movie based games arent much to my appeal, i find it 
 interesting at times. 
  
  This game is just fun and easy for someone who's got nothing much to do. That's all for me to say. 
 Apart from that, there are pretty cute scenes and well done backgrounds and details. Fun for people 
 younger than 18 i suppose? I have no idea. I'd rather read the book and watch the movie than play.. 
 but oh well. Worth a one time play. :P
  
  It was fun going through the things these characters went through. Nice one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushedgurl911
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics, along with a little more challenging gameplay than the other Harry 
 Potter games, but has a few setbacks such as jumping back and forth between levels to progress 
 in gameplay. Diehard H. P. readers and watchers won't enjoy how the game cuts out storylines and 
 leaves out some basics from movies and books, but will enjoy the experiance of living through the 
 Tri-Wizard tasks and coming face to face with Voldemort himself in the end. EA really should have 
 put a few things in that would have made this a totally great game. Features like switching characters 
 in gameplay and more options for PC players other than the option to turn off and on Subtitles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinn13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  First I would like to say, that the best thing about this game is the magic, just the way it works, 
 I hated the way it worked in the first games. Now you can choose what spell do you want to use 
 and that's really good.
  
  No what's bad. As I said earlier the worst thing about this game is the console controlling system 
 and the console look. Graphics isn't as good as it could be also. But the "video clips" are much 
 better then in the earlier Potter games.
  
  Well I gave 8.3 points, so I could say that I liked it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paktam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  harry potter and the goblet of fire... this game is awesome... it has unique gameplay...3 characters 
 move in one time... the movie is spectacular... you will learn the control quite easy in about 30 
 minutes... you may spent about 10 hours or less and maybe for to complete the game 100%... the stages 
 are extremely interesting with the cute little creatures... some of them quite tough actually such 
 as the insects... really annoying... to complete this game you just need to go over and over again 
 to collect the shields... and acquire new spells to complete the game...
  
  the character graphic is really nice... it looks like alive... this game is quite difficult in certain2 
 part of the game... but i gave it medium... not so easy and not so difficult... grab this game and 
 enjoy!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celticdruid0123
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  I liked the movie, thats why I got the game for the PC but I was a little disappointed in the controls; 
 they were awkward and you can't change them also you can't choose what jinx/charm to use like in 
 previous games. The graphics are great and so is the music and voice over. Plus having the option 
 to play as the others is cool along with the co-op. The movement was a little difficult to when 
 it comes to having to line yourself up to jump up mutiple levels. I also really don't like having 
 to go through the same level mutiple times. But other than these small problems its not a bad game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  Not the best part but finaly i can play with the other main characters from the movie.
  I saw the movie still 3rd part is the best like the 3rd part of game.
  There is in 4rth part 
 revolution of graphics in platform games but still missing changing resolution .
  Game is bad as movie thus i don't blame the game ddevelopers for that.
  Music is very good from 
 the movie.
  For someone collecting the beans may be disturbing but when you mastered it is better than earlier 
 parts.
  Good RPG part and Co-op playing.
  Cause of 3D view is a bit difficult for play but A. I is easy that is good:)
  Designed for console 
 playing is bad thing
  Designed as a co-op game for up to three players, you can choose between one of the main characters 
 and collectively play through the levels combining your wizard skills to move large objects, open 
 gates, and solve puzzles. The co-op mode switches to single player when Harry must complete a specific 
 tri-wizard trial, which allows for a break in the team action and serves up some interesting gameplay 
 like broomstick flying and swimming underwater.
  Between the levels also good cinematiccs from movie. which lead the way of game.
  
  Nice try 
 but as we can clasify: Almost but not quite but best in series maybe for choosing other caracters 
 again i like Hermiona particulary.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timogrog
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Chamber of secrets was a brilliant game for a potter outing. So why have they at EA messed this 
 one up? The Graphics and sound detail are excellent, i'll give them that, but why take away the 
 free roam option, because it was fun walking about pretty much anywhere you liked, zapping students 
 and flying above the grounds, but Goblet of Fire is all in mission stages and it doesnt play like 
 a fluid storyboard, well not to me that is, its more like a Bond game than a Harry Potter, only 
 he hasnt got a Silenced pistol or a laser. Ive got only a few levels into it and im hoping they 
 will let me explore without doing a mission, but its very hard to get into this game for some reason 
 and i dont think ill be playing it for a while. I hope Order of the Phoenix will improve on this 
 one, but go see the film i hear its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HogwartsTrecker
Rating: 2.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? Oh where to begin.... 
  
  Ok, what the heck were they thinking? No mouse? No 360 rotation? No looking up, down, left, right? 
 No jumping? What kind of PC video game is this? A very badly made one. So here we go. The good, 
 the bad, the ugly:
  
  GOOD:
  
  1. The graphics. That's about it.
  
  BAD:
  
  1. Gamplay sucks. This is a PS2, Gameboy, XBox (whatever) that was cut and pasted into a PC game. 
 Maybe they were short on funds? I don't know. I do know that you are unable to properly guide the 
 players around. It's bad enough not to have a mouse to guide the characters around but, the arrows 
 on the keyboard are unable to even do a proper job of it. Of all the games I have played, the arrows 
 on the keyboard turn you in the direction, not lead youFORWARD in that direction. Know what I mean? 
 Left, TURNS you left. Left is not supposed to make you go FORWARD in the left direction. Only the 
 up arrow is supposed to make you go forward. ::rolls eyes:: That has been the way for oh, I don't 
 know, many many years. Also, because you can't properly guide your character, you cannot properly 
 see what is around you. You cannot LOOK left, right, up or down, or even behind you. Of all the 
 stupid.... ::bangs head on keyboard::
  2. The goals of the game are not clear. What you need to do to finish certain tasks is not clear. 
 You wind up asking yourself.... "Ooookkkk, what now?" Unlike in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of 
 Azkaban, you don't really know what the heck is going on. You are more or less fumbling around 
 trying to figure out what you should be doing next.
  3. Because the characters are hard to maneuver around, this causes problems elsewhere. Not to give 
 anything in the game away but... there are areas where you need to cast a spell and then "aim" 
 that spell at something. This is extremely difficult to do because of the poor maneuverability 
 of the characters.
  
  UGLY:
  
  1. The absolute worst part about the game is that it is impossible to find a forum or message board 
 for Electronic Arts to post these issues on. One that they would read. And even if you did manage 
 to find someplace to post on, Electronic Arts would just ignore it anyways. They are not about 
 to change a thing. They are in it for the money folks. They don't give a rats butt what we, the 
 gameplayers, think. They just want us to buy their games so they can make money, no matter had 
 badly the games are made. ::sigh:: It is so disheartening.
  
  I just wish that once, just once in my lifetime, the big game making companies would take just 
 a few minutes and think about what they are doing. Just once.... Anyways, that's it. The truth, 
 the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The good, the bad and the ugly. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ru40342
Rating: 1.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:10 pm PT
Review:  as a hardcore harry potter movie and game fans and played every harry potter game, i am absolutely 
 sad to see this franchise actually became this. the movie itself is great but the game is doing 
 nowhere near. 
  
  as a leading game maker in this industry, i really think EA has failed this time. yes they made 
 good harry potter game before as prisoner of azkaban was good if not great but goblet of fire is 
 nothing but disaster.
  
  the camera aspect is bad and the controy is even worse. plus, we cannot even change the configuration 
 an all. and worst of all, the ai is complete mess
  
  however, the graphic brought in the game is nice and that's pretty much the only good aspect of 
 the game.
  
  every new aspect and i mean EVERY NEW ASPECT in this franchise is a failure and a waste of money. 
 maybe ea should start searching their store and look for a better solution in harry potter next 
 movie or they will lose their so called "HARDCORE HARRY POTTER FAN" 
  
  THANKS, EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spvn
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  EA has certainly changed the whole gameplay in this fourth game, i don't know about the first game, 
 but i've played the 2nd and the 3rd, both of which are quite simmilar ie. both are 3rd person view 
 etc.. but in this game, they totally changed the game play and made it to sort of a side-scrolling 
 game, something like LOTR.. for thsoe of u who have played previous harry potter games, you'll 
 know what im talking about..
  
  graphic wise, this game pales in comparison to previous hp titles, heck it pales to games made 
 a few years ago. the first time i loaded the game up i thought there was something wrong with my 
 graphics card, cause even the loading screen looked bad, then i thought maybe it was a problem 
 with the resolution, and swore to myself i would change the resolution to 1024 x 768 the minute 
 the game finished loading. but surprise surprise, with absolutely no video options in the options 
 menu (there are only options for turning autosave on and off, or to turn on or off subtitles in 
 the option menus) u're stuck with one resolution, and im not very sure if it's 800 x 600 or 640 
 x 480.. either way it sucks, oh and have i mentioned how bad the models look?? sure now u can play 
 as any one of the trio but if they look so bad, who cares?? however i have to say that the spells 
 look much better in this game than in previous ones, but that's just a minor point. this game seriously 
 needs a patch to add options to change resolution and maybe even new models, i know it's practically 
 impossible, but it's my right to dream ain't it??
  
  sound in this game is not bad, you get your characters shouting out the spell names, the thump 
 of rocks as u drop them from a levitating spell, the dialog in this game's not bad too. in the 
 sound department, this game fairs quite ok..
  
  gameplay: as i've already mentioned, this game's gameplay is totally different from previous harry 
 potter titles, where you had 3rd person view. In fact i quite like this new way of navigating around. 
 in fact it was the screenshots of the game which i saw online that drew me to the game so much. 
 but i'll admit after playing just a few levels i hate it. first of all because of such a low resolution 
 the graphics are so bad that you can't even see the monsters which pop up from the ground in the 
 first level cause they are practically the same colour as the ground. then when you finally realise 
 they're there and after they've dealt like 10+ dmg to you, you try to spin around and jinx it. 
 but guess what? the new harry potter's sense of direction is so bad that it's hard for you to accurately 
 make him face the correct direction to jinx the monster. the up down left right keys dont make 
 it any easier, perhaps if EA had used the mouse as the main control it would be easier to point 
 and click, but using the arrow keys to turn accurately on your first try is practically impossible. 
 not to mention that there is absolutely no way to change the controls.
  
  When you complete a level, you can use the beans you collected so far to buy cards, as you could 
 in the previous game. however, this time the cards actually have some use, you can equip them to 
 the trio to give them better dmg, more stamina, an advantage over a certain kind of monster, etc... 
 this is obviously an improvement over previous titles as at least now they are more than cards 
 for you to look at.
  
  Also, the game camera sometimes makes it difficult for you to see where you're going or where the 
 monsters are, and the ai for the other 2 of the trio which you arent controlling isn't that good, 
 for eg when you're trying to cast a co-op spell ie. 2 or all 3 of you have to cast at the same 
 thing, it could take up to 5 seconds for the other 2 to come join you in casting the spell. which 
 makes the game slightly boring... but doesnt affect the gameplay too badly whatsoever.
  
  On the whole, EA tried to make this game somewhat like LOTR: RotK (the only LOTR game i've played) 
 but it failed miserably, especially in the graphics department, as previous hp titles had a much 
 more richer, colourful and clearer enviroment than Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. For now, 
 the harry potter community should be praying for either a much better 5th game (and EA has to rise 
 up to expectations this time as 1. this game was a disaster and 2. So many more things occur in 
 order of the phoenix which hp fans would want to play out) or a huge patch which will fix this 
 game to make it as enjoyable as previous hp titles...
  
  Final say: to anyone out there who has a tight budget for a new comp game, dont buy this game, 
 it's a waste of money. If you really want it, i suggest you wait and see how EA will react to such 
 bad reviews from both gamers and see if they release a patch or something like that. If they dont 
 and you still really want the game, well, i cant exactly stop you from buying it, but i'll still 
 stick to this: it's a waste of money.... : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0nr
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the other three games in the series, which were quite enjoyable, this game has been very 
 disappointing. To be honest i think they have taken a backwards step in this game.
  
  The Controls in this game cannot be changed, you can't aim with the mouse, and worst of all, the 
 resolution is stuck at a measly 800*600 with no AA, which is terrible for todays standards. 
  
  There is no free roaming feel of the past games in this one, just linear missions, much like 
 the Lord of the Rings game. Except in that one you can change resolution and controls. 
  
  I hope they revert back to the way prisoner of azkaban was for the next game, this one was just 
 unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkuborka
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  The graphics were pretty nice and even the music was alright. But this is one of the worst games 
 I ever played... I gave 2 points out of 10, but if it wasn't Harry and the others I would have 
 gave a 0.5. I mean I just love the book, the movies are ok but not too good. But the games! They 
 are just crap! They are short, easy, boring, hard to control and i could make a whole list of the 
 bad things in the games... I only gave this 2 points cause I love the book, but I would rather 
 give a 0.2-7... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRGuinness
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  The Harry Potter Video Game franchise has been for the most part decent. Previous games under the 
 HP franchise haven't looked as well as HPGF, but made up for it with interesting enough gameplay. 
 
  
  Once again the player is stuck trying to collect  which leads one 
 to ask if this game franchise might be the bane of diabetics everywhere.
  
  HPGF however, is nothing more than a console port to PC. The player doesn't even have the ability 
 to change the mapping of the keys, let alone use the mouse. The only thing that makes HPGF worth 
 playing is if you have a gamepad. But then again if you are going to go do that, just go rent it 
 at Blockbuster for your console system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: percussion99
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Horrible controls. Not very many options in the option menu. Can't change the controls nor can 
 you change the resolution. This makes the gameplay very bad IMO. I really wanted to like the game 
 because I had played and liked the previous title. However, this one lacks the basic functions 
 that allow the user to be comfortable with gameplay. I just hope the next game in the series doesn't 
 end up with the same issues. On a good note, the movie was really good. Maybe there will be some 
 sort of update or patch to enable you to change the controls to your own liking. One can only hope. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  Disappointing things: 
  - you cant choose the spell you cast
  - the spells are too few
  - you gain bonuses throughout the game, but for some reason you can't use them in the most crucial 
 parts of the game (the Triwizard tasks and the battle with Voldemort)
  - your two companions are rather stupid
  - rather awkward controls (still, I've seen worse)
 
  - you have to return to the same places over and over again, to collect Triwizard Shields in order 
 to unlock the next location
  - you cant roam the Hogwarts castle like in the previous games
  - the game is a rip-off of the 
 movie, rather than a stand-alone experience
  - the story is virtually non-existent; clearly, you are supposed to have read the book and know 
 it already
  
  Good things:
  - the game can be rather immersive and exciting at times (I especially liked the 1st Task and the 
 battle with Voldemort)
  - the graphics look good (not the way they do in Half-Life 2, but then, that's a different kind 
 of game)
  - the spells can be quite fun (for instance, levitating objects or inflating your enemies) and 
 look good, too
  - Ron's obsession with Bertie Bott's beans :)
  
  On the whole: less than I expected, but not as bad as people say. If you're looking for an unforgettable 
 HP experience, forget it. If you're looking for a decent arcade/action game, you need to look no 
 further.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: osahong
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The game isnt the most difficult in the world. If you want to just go through the game without 
 bothering about side-quests etc, this is easy to do. However, it can be tricky to find every mushroom 
 that needs stunning, every dark detector to be shut down etc. These little quests make you search 
 each level thoroughly and you will most likely need a few attempts at each level to find everything. 
 One disappointment was that you cannot explore Hogwarts. You can only visit certain levels but 
 you cant just wander in between. 
  Hmmm, the controls. They were obviously designed for consoles or at least PCs with gamepads. And 
 you cant configure them which is quite a big drawback. And NO MOUSE. However, the controls are 
 easy to master fairly quickly and I was firing off jinxes and charms like a machine-gunner with 
 Parkinsons. The movement controls (arrow keys) are simple but also console-oriented. It can be 
 a bit frustrating to turn your character to face an object you want to cast at, but I found that 
 I quickly got used to it. Theres no denying it though, mouse-look would have been better.
  The camera is downright annoying as you have no control over it and just have to hope that it sorts 
 itself out. You often cant see whats ahead until you have run headlong into it and sometimes 
 some creatures are just off screen and you cant cast at them until you move in certain directions.
 
  I like the beans and wizard-card systems. As you earn beans, some of them charge your Magicos 
 Extremos meter which, when full, can be unleashed to perform powerful magic for a short while. 
 Some restore stamina as well. Also, the beans can then be traded for cards which have various rewards 
 e. g. levelling up stamina or jinx power. You can then equip your characters with 3 cards before 
 a level. This is useful if you have played a level before and want to give players an advantage 
 against salamanders or a more powerful Accio spell.
  The levels are nicely done. Often they are big and have several different areas. Sometimes, you 
 may find you need to unlock another area and spell before you can go back and explore part of a 
 preceding level. Then of course, you have the Triwizard challenges. These are not really difficult 
 and are a bit short. But they do bring the whole concept to life and what has been done on them 
 does look and feel nice (I felt the adrenaline when being chased by the Hungarian Horntail) .
  The spells are cool as well. 2 main types  jinx and charm. One of the things I love about this 
 game over the previous ones is when you are battling creatures, you can use combos of spells. For 
 example, you can just stun a Dugbog repeatedly with the Orchideous hex to turn it into a bunch 
 of flowers, or you can raise it with the Wingardium Leviosa charm and sling it into orbit, or you 
 can cast Wingardium Leviosa and then fire jinxes at it (e. g. Avifors) to turn it into a flock of 
 birds. Cool. But you dont get to choose your spells. If you press the charm/jinx button, the game 
 automatically selects which charm/jinx you use. 
  
  Graphics
  Its a good thing the graphics are an improvement on the last game. However it is all NON-CUSTOMISABLE. 
 You cannot change detail levels, resolution, even brightness or contrast. This is a big, BIG drawback. 
 EA really fell flat on its arse on that one.
  The creatures look great, I especially loved the flame effects of the Amazonian Salamanders and 
 the Blast-Ended Skrewt.
  The characters look like their film counterparts and are an improvement over the last game. Theyre 
 all quite stylishly dressed as well!
  The levels have nice detail. Hogwarts (what you see of it) looks lovely, the Forbidden Forest is 
 appropriately spooky. 
  The spell effects are excellent. I especially loved Aqua Eructo and some jinxes like Lapifors and 
 Orbis. It is also cool to see the explosions.
  
  Sound
  For the most part the music is quite nice and fits the game well. The voice actors sound like their 
 film counterparts although their dialogue can be a bit annoying. The noises made by spells and 
 explosions is also very good. I especially loved the Magicos Extremos noise when you first activate 
 it.
  However, all you can tweak is whether or not you can turn subtitle on/off. EA what were you thinking?!
 
  
  Value
  If you just go through the game with straightforward completion in mind, it shouldnt take more 
 than a 3-4 hours. But if like me you want to complete every little subquest as well, it may take 
 you closer to 8 hours (especially if you want Gold in all of Moodys challenges  or is it that 
 Im just crap?) . Most people will probably not want to replay this game, but I think I would enjoy 
 playing it againbut only once. Until a couple of years time when the next one is about to come 
 out and I want to compare the games.
  
  Overall
  The game is more of an action genre than the previous puzzle instalments. There are still plenty 
 of areas for improvement. Did EA have to stick to the films? There is so much in the book they 
 could have added. I would like to explore Hogwarts and it is quite easy. I mean, come on EA let 
 us know you are considering us adults. Perhaps adding difficulty levels would help broaden the 
 appeal?
  My biggest gripe is that you cannot adjust ANYTHING. It really makes me feel like the PC version 
 was just an afterthought.
  However, I would recommend this game as it is a lot of fun to play and it does help you experience 
 the magic. It is, after all, the closest most of us will get to being at Hogwarts (sigh) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yogisanchez
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  I think gameplay its ok, the game system is pretty entretaining, having your pals with you is really 
 nice, being able to chose 0ther chars is too and group spells are nice. But, the camera takes all 
 that and takes the score down to hell. Horrible camera and controls. 5/10
  
  Graphics:
  Models are nice, efects are nice... but where are the graphic options? No higher resolution, no 
 more antialiasing, nothing there are no graphic options AT ALL! thatas the worst part of this game, 
 in fact i stop playing because of that! 2/10
  
  Sound:
  Decent sound, the only think i didnt liked was the fact that Ron and hermione (if you're using 
 harry) wont stop saying you to do stuff you're already trying to do. Its a lil anoying. 6/10
  
  Value:
  Dont spect any challenge here, the story is what matters. 5/10
  
  Reviewers tilt:
 
  I think that the lack of options makes this game not worthy at all. In fact im going now to get 
 my money back. 1/10
  
  NOTE: I was hoping a lower score, like 2/10 but i cant give 0 to reviewers tilt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrots
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  If not been able to change the resolution, difficulty or keypad settings ( plug in a game pad) 
 determines the quality of a game for you then this game is not for you. However if you can cope 
 with the child orientated settings youll find yourself playing a game that sparkles on several 
 levels.
  The gameplay is quite straightforward and youll soon find yourself running around Hogwarts collecting 
 beans, which are used to buy cards, while fighting off various hordes of bugs, plants etc. The 
 levels are large and impressive and many will require more than one visit in order to complete 
 the game. You choose which character you want to play as, changeable at the start of each level, 
 equip your cards and away you go. Up to three players can play at one time, if you have enough 
 game pads, so you can compete with your friends as well. The graphics are lovely and I was impressed 
 by the rooftop scenes in the Tri-Wizard One and Hogwarts Exterior levels. 
  If your thinking of buying your little darlings a game to keep them quiet on Christmas Day then 
 this should do it for you. Youll probably find yourself getting lost in it as well once the kids 
 are finished with it. 
  Lots of playability for all and a must have for any self respecting witch or wizard.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trov
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire PC game is a new experience for Harry Potter fans. It is sticking 
 true to the book, aswell as the movie. Most critics may feel that the game is underrated and pathetic, 
 yet they have no clue how to critise a game! 
  
  In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban game, the thrill is constantly there. Learning new 
 spells and having to fight away those nasty Dementors, it also gave a new dimension to the Harry 
 Potter gaming world where you could also play with Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger. 
  
  The same idea has arrisen this time around where you can also play with Ron and Hermione. New idea's 
 like power and health giving beans. Special blue beans give you the magic power to do those powerful 
 spells, while some other beans can give you more health. Another terrific idea is modify wizard 
 cards. Before you hop into a battle, you can used the wizard cards to increase your HP (Hit Point) 
 meter and you can do so much more! There's even creature cards this time, they help to increase 
 your power to the same level as the creatures themselves!
  
  The game basically runs through the story line of the book. You get to go to the Quidditch World 
 Cup, get to take part in the Triwizard Tournament at school, and even face Lord Voldemort (Lord 
 Asswort if you ask me) ! 
  
  I don't want to give too much away, but it defanitly is a game worth having. Most people will feel 
 that the game has no edge or isn't as exciting as the previous games, but this game IS based on 
 the book. In the previous book, the plot was a lot daker and deeper into Harry's past, so the game 
 obviously had more of an edge. My advice is, before you play the game, read the book again and 
 watch the movie! Then play the game. You will get so much out of it that in the end, it will be 
 worth it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SugarSpunSister
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the previous games in the Harry Potter series, and was looking forward to this. 
 It feels incredibly limiting and linear, and what can I say about the controls :S My God! I genuinely 
 couldn't believe that I had to use the cursor keys for movement, I thought I was making a mistake 
 until I came on here to find out what I was doing wrong... lazy lazy EA. : ( Playing this game simply 
 feels like you're 'going through the motions' and the control system makes it painful... literally.
 
  
  Perhaps it is better on a console, it certainly never should have been ported over to the PC as 
 it has been, I've never reviewed another game on here, but felt that if my review (combined with 
 others) saves someone their pocket money - then I'd be doing a good service!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: esquilo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I "bought" this game, with a huge anticipation, thinking EA would correct the mistakes they had 
 made in the previous games of the series. I was wrong.
  The first thing you notice is the controls. You do not control the characters with the mouse to 
 turn and left-click to cast spells. Now you control them with the keyboard arrows and x, c, z and 
 s to cast different spells. Another point is that the game is too easy. I spent no longer than 
 30-45 minutes playing the game and I passed 1/4 of the game with very little (read none) difficulty. 
 I think EA should have put a decent difficulty choice in the game, i understand the game is supposed 
 to be playes by children, but other gamers would want a challenge... 
  Another bad point to this game is the options menu. No resolution choices, visual effects customization, 
 nothing, just an option to turn subtitles on or off and that's it! The only positive aspect I can 
 point to this game is the graphics, that improved a lot from the last game... EA still has got 
 a long way to go on this one though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_vv
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics & good sound but weird ,unchangeable controls, bad uncontolable camera make this game 
 less enjoyable. I have Know idea why EA decided that the gamers can't even increase the resolution 
 ,a few graphical & game control options would have sufficed. I liked the innovation in gameplay 
 
  such as the card system & the use of charms to manipulate enemies & environment . I also feel we 
 should have been able to choose the jinxes we want to cast, the absence of the tradition of exploring 
 Hogwarts is also dissapointing. This game had great potential to be the best of Potter games but 
 it remains untapped. EA have not smoothened the rough edges of the game maybe its because they 
 were running out of time?
  Overall I feel the game is worth renting for any HP fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: back2earth
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Year after year I buy a Harry Potter game hoping it to be Better than the Last one, But to my disappointment 
 it has the same old boring Game play . the menus look good in the game but.. looks is all they 
 have , there is no option to change the resolution , the sound or the controls, and to top it all 
 the menus are hell lot confusing, the menus would have been a lot easier if we would be able to 
 use the mouse (shocked right??? Yes, you dont get to use the mouse ,even while playing) . The game 
 play is completely different, You have to play the entire game with only the keyboard (with only 
 arrow , Z, X, C and s keys) . The graphics and sounds are very good (you will find these two to be 
 the only good thing about this game) . the characters look good . its not like the normal Harry Potter 
 games where you can go any where around the castle or should I put it this way this the only Harry 
 Potter game where u dont get to enter the castle atoll. As you play the game you will find out 
 that Harry, Ron and Hemiohny are the only characters you will find in the game, Not even Albus 
 Dombedore (and what is a Harry Potter game without Fred and gorge, My all time favorite Professor 
 Snape , hagrid , our good old griffindor team) Its a shame .The game play is BAD, here are a few 
 of the drawbacks in the game play:-
  
  You dont get to use the mouse to cast the spells ( that makes the game hell lot tougher)
  
 
  Because you dont get to use the mouse all you can do is run away from the monsters instead of 
 fighting them (Now thats a Bummer) .
  
  You cant Jump !!!
  
  The cameras are not exactly bad but it gets a bit annoying in the later levels
  
  No new monsters, 
 From the first game till this one all the games have the Fire Crab (long time EA thinks of a better 
 monster) then there are the fire salamanders and so on.
  Same old monsters from the past.
  
  Hardly six or seven different types of monsters!!
  
 
  The same annoying Bean collection ( its high time EA thought of something else)
  
  The AI is extremely poor for example, when you are surrounded by a dozen monsters the other two 
 will be busy trying to open a gate which is already open!!! If u cross a wall one of the two of 
 your partners will keep dashing the wall till you go back for him and get him in some other way.
 
  
  The levels are very Easy and small!! 
  
  There are many more drawbacks but I dont want to waste my time typing them (as if I have not wasted 
 my time playing that game) . So I will recommend you to rent this game before buying ( This goes 
 even for all those Potter fans like me who Buy this boring Harry Potter series year after year 
 with the hope of finding Improvement.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters86
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  Since I got all the Harry Potter games I must say this one has changed a lot in many aspects. Harry 
 Potter and the Goblet of Fire has now changed to a lineal-style game instead of those you had to 
 go through all Hogwarts.
  
  The graphics are really amazing, very realistic and detailed. Even the mountains and trees in the 
 far horizon are real-time 3D objects, which forces you to have a good video card. The only bad 
 about graphics is fire. When there's a lot of fire in the scene, the game slows down as hell.
 
  
  The sound is as great as always. A soundtrack that submerges you into the game and it's very rich 
 and clear.
  
  The controllers are a bit difficult so a gamepad is almost required to play the game at a comfortable 
 level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanven
Rating: 2.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The first three games in this series were fun little games that one could play at a relaxed pace. 
 Secret areas to explore, fun little side quests and games... in a word, just enjoyable. This game, 
 however, is all but unplayable.
  
  Now.. EA in it's wisdom has decided to take away every ounce of fun for the PC version... this 
 plays much like the LOTRs games, only the 3/4 overhead perspective doesn't work in this game. there 
 are far too many blind spots, this game would not be fun for children in the least - it's just 
 too hard to control. 
  
  I wish EA the best of luck disposing of the unsold game boxes, because this one will go down in 
 video game history as the E. T. of 2005. Put it in a hole out back quick.. and get back to the fun 
 games...
  
  Don't bother purchasing this game... especially for a child. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fcturner
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  After an astute Stone, a covert Chamber, and a jailed Azkaban, Harry Potter came back on screen, 
 to show us the reality behind the fourth book.
  I loved his games from the very beginning. 
  Of course, they were first a bit... well.... inexperienced.
 
  After some years, finally Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is released. I am pretty sure, this 
 is the best Potter-game ever. 
  You will always see, that SOME gamers didn't got what they wanted. Too bad, this is REAL Potter. 
 They made the game exactly as they meant to do. And so I have a nice, brand-new one, in my list 
 of Favorite Games.
  
  Lovely to see how Potter, Granger and Weasly made it up to a Tournament. Just great...
  
  I'd 
 say: BUY!!!
  
  Fallon Turner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barabajagal
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Even with its "E" rating, obviously the game isn't for everyone. Serious to hardcore gamers should 
 look elsewhere for their magical mayhem.
  
  Young and casual gamers won't be intimidated by this title. There is very little button mashing 
 required, and it won't take a large investment of time to finish.
  
  The graphics looked very clean and crisp although you can't select your resolution. In fact, you 
 have only two real options: autosave and subtitles. Its an easy PC game to install and configure 
 for moms and dads. 
  
  Game-play is simple enough as you control Harry, Ron, or Hermione. You level up your characters 
 by collecting and equipping spell cards and creatures cards none of which is complicated. Level 
 are unlocked by acquiring objects or completing some task. There is next to no violence, and my 
 characters never died. I would recommend using a USB supported controller for this game over the 
 keyboard.
  
  The voice-over work is fine although a little repetitive in spots, and the music sets the mood 
 very well.
  
  Everyone needs to keep in mind, this is not a Harry Halo or a Half-Life Harry game. Its a Harry 
 Potter game geared toward a much younger audience and nearly every element of the game points in 
 that direction. It's a safe-bet video game buy for the youngins this Christmas.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: got_sliced
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  I prefer the gameplay of POA but these graphics and music are really good.
  the default controls of the game are:
  
  Cursor up: up
  Cursor down: down
  Cursor left: 
 left
  Cursor right: right
  Z: Accio
  X: Jinx
  C: Can be a different spell like (example) Wingardium leviosa.
  S: Magic extremos 
  
  The 
 difficult part is collecting all the shields and vanishing cards.
  ( I still haven't got them all :P )
  
  The gameplay does remind me to The Lord of The Rings 
 on PS2 ( The levels, filling bars, gameplay and earning rewards by slaughting creatures.
  
  I like the harry potter games and i think they made a great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maunilpatel
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  To say the truth, I think this game was Pathetic. Gameplay is worse in this one.. I would say first 
 three were better than this one. Controls are the most annoying part of it because you are not 
 using your mouse at all in whole game.. and worst is that you can not change anything. ( You can't 
 change controls, resolution, sound, video etc..) everything you do is with key board.
  There is no jumping or crouching or anything that is needed to fully enjoy the game. All the levels 
 were easy and especially the last one.. if you are good than you can fininsh this game is about 
 10 hours. 
  harry potter and prisoner of Azakaban was lot better than this one.. I would say even first and 
 second were more enjoyable than this one
  
  Graphics were better than any of the preious ones along with sound but if gamplay is not good than 
 there is no point of good graphics. 
  
  Sometimes it's hard to see everything in whole scene because you can not change the camera angle.. 
 I think they rushed too much in this game.. they should of put more effort and make this game more 
 enjoyable like preious one s.
  
  Harry potter and Goblet of fire movie will be very enjoyale and also the book but game is not anywhere 
 close to that.. I would say rent the game and you will be done pretty quickly.. no need to waste 
 your money on this one...
  This one is the worst harry potter game.. I never expected this from EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbon13
Rating: 1.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  Stay far away from this one.
  
  I have not played the previous games in the series, so I cannot provide a comparison. But this 
 game is shocking, it feels like a game built to a budget.
  
  Very boring, terrible graphics, and clumbsy to play. And the worst part is that it only vaugley 
 follows the plot of the book. In fact, the title is the only thing it has in common with the novel. 
 
  
  There is not one good thing to say about this game. The pathetic ingame movies are there purley 
 to fill in the plot. And if your looking for a imersive good looking game, run from this. There 
 are no graphics options. The game action boring and scripted, with very little to do. Kill creatures, 
 put out fires and move rocks.
  
  I am a big fan of the novels and movies. This game is so bad, it doesn't even fall short of expectations. 
 EA should be ashamed. I find it funny that the plaster their logo all over the game, with intro 
 movies you cannot skip.
  
  Don't support shoddy games that are designed to leech off the franchise.
  
  Andy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmage
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  My wife and I are both Harry Potter fans, and we have both finished all the other PC games, this 
 one however I seriously doubt we will bother with.
  
  First off, the controls... they are clumsy at best. Most of the game is viewed at an angle so its 
 almost impossible to get the movement and targeting right with the arrow keys. The action buttons 
 ( Z, X, C, Spacebar) put your hand in a position that is unique to this game and I found it very 
 awkward.
  
  The worst part about the controls are that they are completely unchangable.
  
  The point of view is also unchangable as is the camera angle. This leads to either walking 
 blindly or not having a view of your characters most of the time.
  
  The graphics are, admittedly, much better than the previous games, but they too are unchangable. 
 You can not lower graphics settings for slower PCs or raise them for those uf us with faster ones. 
 
  
  The game truely feels like the PC platfrom was an afterthought. If you plan to buy this game, I 
 highly suggest getting it on a console instead of PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serge2k5
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  If you thought EA is a money grabing, greedy little thing, then guess what, IT IS.
  
  I actualy enjoyed the Harry Potter books and movies as well as, in a much smaller scale, the games, 
 but this here thing has got to be one of the worst excueses for a game i have ever seen. 
  
  When i first started playing i thought to myself : "Yuck those graphics look really bad, but 
 that's ok a little AA and a bigger resolution will fix it". The next thing i thought about were 
 the controls: "Gee, these here controls are really messed up, that's ok I'll just change them from 
 the options menu." Well, lough and behold sure enough i got into the options menu, were to my utter 
 disbelief the only options were "Autosave" and "Subtitles". That's right a game with a potentialy 
 good looking engine thrown at the garbage can just becouse EA is to big of a lazy ass to iplement 
 more 20th century like options.
  
  If you can get past those things (wich i highly doubt you will) what you will find is a incredebly 
 easy game, all you have to do is push a button there, push another button there, and hey presto 
 you're through to the next mission.
  
  The sound i have to admit is pretty good, Harry Potter fans will love the music and voice acting 
 wich is in the now well known tone of the series.
  
  Value you say? Well i hate to dissapoint you (again) but this game has none. You will finish the 
 game in a boring manner in less than 6 hours (and that's if you take your time) and after that, 
 it's back to the drawing board.
  
  Overall this is just another classic example of a good game gone bad becouse of EA's soul interest 
 in life, making money, as oposed to actualy caring about the people who buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and gentlemen... Harry potter has been a, well good book and a pretty good movie... I liked 
 them all. Everything was so well composed so very well designed.... and would leave you wanting 
 more..... The first Harry Potter game was a very childish game... no violence just a small boy 
 and his wand... No matter how simple it sounds the game was great. Very complex and you would get 
 the feeling that you want to play on. The second game was less of a success and the third was just 
 a disaster. The new game was supposed to make me believe that the producer actually cares what 
 we play and don't just make a piece of crap and name it Harry potter and hope we buy it. This fourth 
 game is just that: a piece of crap (pardon my French) . The control is very uncomfortable and guesses 
 what: YOU CAN"T CHANGE IT!! I said ok... Ill move forward and make the graphics better. Guess 
 what: no graphics audio or unkind of options... you have SUBTITLES: ON/OFF and Auto save: On/OFF. 
 The game doesn't look that bad but still ... at least let me chose my resolution. As for the game 
 itself its very easy. Even with the absolutely stupid position of the buttons  you can pass 
 to the missions like a hot knife through butter. Oh and you dont have a difficult selection by 
 the way. I would tell you the story and the opponents but its the only thing that makes me play 
 on. If you want to play a Harry Potter story play the game, if your looking for an exciting game 
 that will make you play it again do not even bother. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
