-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/harrypotterprisonerofazkaban/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 14, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 760 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     May 25, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Prisoner of Azkaban is a great game for younger kids, and it's fun for less-discriminating older 
 fans of Harry Potter too. 

  Like its console-based counterparts, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban for the PC is a kid-oriented 
 action adventure game based on the recently released movie of the same name. Apart from that, this 
 PC version is generally unlike the game you'll find on the PS2 or Xbox, because Prisoner of Azkaban 
 on the PC is an entirely separate game created by a different development team, rather than a simple 
 port of the console version. The game is exceptionally easy and surprisingly brief, but while it 
 lasts, it's a fun romp for its target audience through  Prisoner of Azkaban 's twisty storyline. 

          Harry's steps are dogged by escaped wizard convict Sirius Black in Prisoner of Azkaban. 
     

  Harry's third year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is beset by Sirius Black, the 
 murderous wizard who is said to have betrayed Harry's parents to their deaths at the hands of the 
 evil Lord Voldemort. Having recently escaped from the wizard prison Azkaban, Black is hot on young 
 Harry's trail and presumably looking to finish the job he started more than a decade earlier. Of 
 course, there's a  lot  more to the story than that, as anyone who has read the book or seen the 
 movie can attest, although the game glosses over most of the major plot details in favor of playable 
 sequences that aren't in the original storyline. The game feels like a companion piece to the book 
 or film, as if you're expected to have gone through one or the other prior to playing the game -- and 
 presumably, just about anybody who's going to play this game already has.  

  The gameplay here is a straightforward point-and-click affair. You'll control Harry, Ron, or Hermione 
 (as the game dictates) through a series of dungeonlike action levels with equally light combat 
 and puzzle-solving elements. The controls really couldn't be simpler: You move around with the 
 standard WASD configuration, jump with the right mouse button, and cast spells with the left mouse 
 button. Spellcasting is context-sensitive, so you merely point your wand at an object, and the 
 game will figure out which spell you need to cast. This design is charming in its simplicity, as 
 you can run around zapping enemies, pushing blocks, and magically flinging yourself across chasms 
 without ever so much as fiddling with a menu. It takes most of the guesswork out of figuring out 
 the proper course of action in a given situation, which is largely what makes the game so easy. 

  In the action levels, which are few, you'll usually control only one of the three friends as they 
 try to complete a linear dungeon filled with easy puzzles and the occasional monster. Harry gets 
 to use the glacius spell to freeze water and slide down it in a sort of pseudo-race sequence; Ron 
 can use his carpe retractum spell to pull blocks around and also grapple across large gaps; and 
 Hermione can use lapifors and draconifors to take temporary control of a rabbit and a dragon, respectively, 
 for the purpose of puzzle-solving. Sometimes you'll engage in combat or encounter a puzzle outside 
 these dungeons when your friends are close by, and they'll help you fight it out or cast combo 
 spells automatically in these instances.  

  Prisoner of Azkaban's action levels are tied together by a hub level that literally lets you run 
 around the halls of Hogwarts. There are a few extra activities you can engage in between levels, 
 such as collecting around 80 cards that show you famous wizards and monsters and playing three 
 short minigames in which you ride the hippogriff Buckbeak, fight off a swarm of pixies, or do battle 
 with  The Monster Book of Monsters . You can also purchase passwords that let you access minor 
 new areas in the castle from the joke shop run by Ron's brothers, Fred and George. The game is 
 always hurrying you off from one action event to the next, though, so you never really feel like 
 you've got a chance to stop and just explore. After you've completed all the story elements, however, 
 you'll have the chance to roam about and finish up all the side tasks you missed the first time 
 through.  

          Using magic is exceptionally easy, thanks to a context-sensitive point-and-click system. 
     

  The graphics in Prisoner of Azkaban are actually pretty impressive, as the game uses the Unreal 
 engine to cohesively re-create Hogwarts and its surrounding grounds. The character models are a 
 little cartoonlike and don't have the most lifelike animation, but the backgrounds are solidly 
 constructed and varied throughout the game. As befits a game using the Unreal technology, the spell 
 effects and indicators are all quite nice, with lots of particle and colored lighting effects (we 
 go in for that stuff) . The game's soundtrack is similar to that of the film and sets the traditional 
 Harry Potter mood nicely, while the voice actors do their best to sound like the movie's actors 
 and generally succeed to an acceptable degree. As per the Potter milieu, a spell incantation must 
 be spoken (or shouted) each time the spell is cast -- so it's notable that each of the three principle 
 actors recorded each spell name multiple times to keep aural repetition to a minimum. There are 
 lots of nice whiz-bang spell effects at work, too, which makes the magic-casting even more fun. 

  There are only a couple of caveats that bear repeating if you're interested in this game: One, 
 any player of even marginal skill will finish the game in five to six hours, and two, its puzzles 
 and combat are both remarkably easy. Those facts make Prisoner of Azkaban a great game for younger 
 kids, and it's a lot of fun for less-discriminating older fans of Harry Potter too. The game may 
 be short and easy, but it's also thoughtfully designed and genuinely entertaining, and KnowWonder 
 deserves credit for that.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dragonjewel
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Good graphics, the game feels like magic. Sometimes boring dialogue as in most games. A problemsolving 
 game as it's hard at the beginning to find secrets and especially to get that LAST card to totally 
 win the game. This game last and it's fun to play even though it's easy. This is actually pretty 
 fun to watch too. It lacks multiplayer game, that little extra work to get rid of the LONG waiting 
 times and all bugs where Hermione wander off in circles, the game crash totally (at least on my 
 f***ing computer. ) but it's still worth to play. And it doesn't happen to often too :) Anyone 
 who rates this under five must be a mainiac. My fave part is the hippogriff ride it's soo wonderful. 
 And good animated scenes based on the movie grasps the whole adventure. A MUST have for potter-fans.
 
  
  
  (P. S Got a tip how to find that last card? ;P ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armyman939
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The first two harry potter games were really good but this one was shockingly bad and a big disappointment.
 
  
  First of all you couldn't rome about Hogwarts half as much as you could on the other games. And 
 the graphics have gotten worse instead of better. It says on the back of the box "best - ever graphics". 
 BULL ****.
  The voices were still annoying but that will never change.
  
  It says on the back of the box the demons are coming and harry needs his Friends but still after 
 saying that they don't even fight the demons at any point in the game so that's also a load of 
 crap.
  The first two harry potter games were really good but this one was shockingly bad and a big disappointment.
 
  The smoke in the game is acctually black squares moving up the sky. A playstation 1 has better 
 grapgics than that!
  
  Although the one good thing about the game and the reason it didnt get a rating one is that you 
 could play as animals. i thought that was a good idea and wen well with the whole sirus black and 
 rons rat thing in the film. 
  
  Don't buy it its Crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youtack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  A great Harry Potter game but at times it seems a little to happy and is too short. The gameplay 
 is great but since some of the spell symbols are changed from the previous one and you ask yourself 
 why the heck did they do that? The graphics are excellent and charactar voices are pretty good. 
 However it is very short and you can finish it in about 3 days. I really think that this is one 
 of the best ones in the Harry Potter series and even though you have to collect a bunch of things 
 and beat all the challenges which are sort ofdifficult and to beat the game is difficult. The gameplay 
 however is rather easy and even though this game can be cheap I think that most people will enjoy 
 this game. Overall it is worth having in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the 3rd game
  in the Harry Potter series. It seems each time a new one is released it is improving by a lot. 
 Prisoner of Azkaban is better than the previous two games. Many aspects of the game have been improved 
 upon but a few things are still left out unfortunatley. The difficulty in this one, was a surprise 
 for me. The game is still quite easy although the difficulty did increase the slightest bit, but 
 not enough for the average gamer to realise. The secrets are a bit harder to find, but the shouldn't 
 present problems. The story length is kind of short which is dissapointing, but at least there 
 are more secret stuff to find than the previous one. Being able to play with Harry, Hermione and 
 Ron throughout the game is a definate plus as well.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: The graphics and sound have improved quite a bit as
  well. The environments 
 look wonderful. The secret areas are significantly harder to find. There are much more mini games 
 for you to try out.
  
  Replay Value: With the additional secrets to find, this does add a bit more to the replay value.
 
  
  Overall this a great addition to the Harry Potter series. This game is one that can be enjoyed 
 by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewanm95
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  In harry potter 3 u can play as harrry hrmione or ron (but u cant chose who u play) You have to 
 fight siruis black an dementors. the game is really fun as u have to take final exams which are 
 just the sme as the challenges but harder. i found this game fun but to easy. U can get to fly 
 bukbeak in this game which is really fun change rabbit statues into rabbits an dragon statues into 
 dragons. U can also freeze salamanders an water an pull thins towards u. i would recommend this 
 game to everyone if u dont even like harry potter ull like this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  While the first 2 games in the series seemed more like edutainment than 'real' computer games, 
 the third installment shows some promise. It is not as if The Prisoner of Azkaban brings much more 
 to the basic principles of the first two games, but a graphical makeover, as well as some tweaks 
 here and there, gives the game a much needed boost through its production values. The story takes 
 backseat to the gameplay, though, so don't expect a new angle to the brilliant story - or any real 
 coherence between your actions and the progression to the main story of the book.
  The games focus seem to be the preparations for the final exams on Hogwarts, and exploring the 
 school. It may not sound ambitious, but as the logic behind the various puzzles and the general 
 flow of the game is as good as it is, the third game actually feels more fresh than the first two.
 
  
  The improved graphics (don't expect UT2004 graphics though) and support for higher resolutions 
 (the first two was capped at 1024*768) gives the game a much needed polish, and the new focus on 
 teamwork is a welcome addition - don't worry though, the teamwork aspect works automatically, and 
 the only difference to the gameplay is, that sometimes you'll have to press the spell button a 
 little longer. .
  
  The game takes somewhere between 5-7 hours to play through for an average gamer, and considering 
 the content, thats a fair length (because the game is a part of a boxset now being sold for around 
 15$)
  
  All things considered, its a worthwhile experience, especially for younger generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter 3 (Prisoner of Azkaban) was a moderate game. I found that they could have made it 
 waaaay better! I played all they Harry Potter games to date, and this is by far the easiest and 
 least fun to play. Some parts are good (like harry getting to slide on the ice and getting to bring 
 statues of rabbits and dragons to life and stuff) I'm not saying it's a completely bad game, but 
 I had quite high ratings for the first two games. I though this game was gonna be better, but I 
 was disappointed. Graphics are fine, nothing special, although some effects are pretty cool.
  Sound, again nothing special except the harry potter theme music.
  
  One of the best parts 
 of the first two games was getting Bertie Bott's every flavor beans! They are supposed to be rewards, 
 but in this game, you get them every second!!!! You get all these cauldron cakes and pumpkins pasties 
 every time you cast a spell pretty much! They definitely went overboard with the rewards. Way Too 
 much of a good thing.
  
  I love Harry Potter, and even though this game could have been better, I still enjoyed it! By M 
 &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelly3546
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are excellent and the levels are not only fun but some of them can be challenging. 
 I throughly enjoy playing this game, but sometimes the more challenging levels will leave me frustrated, 
 but not for long. When I say challenging, I mean slightly difficult and those levels are towards 
 the end of the game....
  
  I found this enstallment of the Harry Potter game series, similar to the movie which is another 
 aspect that I like with the game. My kids even enjoyed playing this game. I have almost conquered 
 the game, got 2 levels left to go..... I give this game (Y) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockin_Gemini
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I would totally expect this from a computer game. If this version was to release on PS3 or 360, 
 then I'd totally give it an F. 
  First of all the game was ok for just being a GAME. But it was very good for being a computer game. 
 HP will always continue to surprise me, even if sometimes the adventures always arent that exciting, 
 aka Goblet of Fire. The game was hard, and if played for a few hours then you'd get hungry easily. 
 Point blank, YOU go get the game and judge it for yourself, then YOU will know just how great it 
 really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marthapartha
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  
  Harry, Hermione and Ron are back for more jelly beans, wizard cards, chocolate frogs, secret rooms 
 and death defying magical adventures for their third year at Hogwarts.
  
  The Harry Potter games, including the Prisoner of Azkaban, are wonderful family games. They are 
 not games for the hardcore gamer, but games that children can play assuming the roles of their 
 heroes as they attend classes in the hopes of one day becoming good wizards and witches, combating 
 evil in whatever form they find it. Young wizards and witches sometimes will need a little help 
 from Mom, Dad, and even Grandpa as they navigate through the magical world of Hogwarts. Mom, Dad, 
 and Grandpa have then been known to start their own Harry Potter game, as Moms, Dads, and Grandpas 
 are often known to do.
  
  
  Fans of the game series will be pleasantly surprised at the advance in technology, specifically 
 the graphics, and the ease of getting from one place to another, within the magical fortress, to 
 explore their surroundings and find surprises (compared to the previous games) . The opportunity 
 to play all three characters, each at different stages of the game, is also an advance for the 
 series, and for the first time in gaming at Hogwarts, a girl gets to play as a girl. 
  
  There were minor hitches in the game controls. Buckbeak flew into invisible walls and became near 
 impossible to steer on the fifth round of bat rings, The problem was solved by lowering the World 
 Detail to its lowest setting. Jumping sometimes was hard to gage because solid structures often 
 ended before solid footing. 
  
  With all the improvements and all the added fun of sliding and gliding and grand champion bean 
 room prizes... No one in my family has wanted to play it more than twice. 
  
  The first Potter game, Sorcerer's Stone, is played again and again by the eleven year old. Hootch's 
 flying class takes considerable practice and took me at least 20,000 tries (with a joystick) before 
 I made it through both sets of challenge rings, and the only way any of us can beat Voldemort is 
 to cheat and play in debug mode. 
  
  The eleven year old still thinks the Chamber of Secret's is too hard for him because of the timed 
 challenges, but plays it until he fails too many spells with the directional keys. I've played 
 Chamber at least four times over the year, and I always, accidentally, find something new. The 
 last time I played, I found 20 jelly beans on a balcony. I was embarrassingly thrilled. 
  
  Prisoner of Azkaban is very enjoyable for what it is. A delightful pastime that requires a little 
 skill, but not too much thinking. The entire family enjoyed playing it, it s just that no one wants 
 to play it more than twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thepychomonkey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion it outnumbers the past two games but it lacks longetivity, Its really short, but 
 thats saved with alot of new features, you can control rabbits, baby dragons, Harry, Ron and Hermionie 
 and Buckbeack. The only downfall in this game is that it is VERY short. Theres so much more they 
 could have put it this game. You dont get to play quiddich matches like the past two. But during 
 the spell challanges, you dont have a time limit which is good if you want to collect all of the 
 beans, pumpin pasties, and Cauldrons to spend at Fred and Georges Shop, when there you can buy Wizard 
 Cards, Portal Passwords and chocolate frogs, all key in completing the game 100%. So if your up 
 for a great adventure game, harry potter fan or not, I would give this a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the thrid installment of the acclaimed Harrk Potter 
 book series by J. K. Rowling. Although the game's adaptation is not as great as the book, it's still 
 a good spin for those who are bored.
  
  The game consists of varied gameplay. In one sequence, you are flying a hippogriff through several 
 rings in an attempt to attain the highest score. In another sequence, you are battling skeletons 
 and blasting them away with the Rictusempra spell. The game is also much more action-oriented than 
 the previous entries in the series, and less puzzles for you to solve. That's both good and bad. 
 On the good side, there's less fustration, but on the other side, it changes what the Harry Potter 
 series were all about.
  
  The game is still, as linear as it always had been. There isn't as much to do in Hogwarts as in 
 the previous entry in the series, the Chamer of Secrets. Most of the characters featured in the 
 first and second games are not featured here at all. And, as always, at the end of the game, you 
 just end up trying to find all of the cards and secrets in the game, as the game relies too much 
 on replaying levels over again to compensate for little content.
  
  The levels are pretty good, with nice textures and objects. The spell effects has also been greatly 
 improved, with nice particle effects. The soundtrack is still the same as in the previous Harry 
 Potter games, which is disapointing because they could have added a few more new soundtracks. But, 
 it's still nice to listen to. But, the character models seem rather odd, and it seems that all 
 of the students are simply clones of one another.
  
  Harry Potter games have always suffered from the same problems: reliance on replaying levels, lack 
 of content, and that unmistaken lack of polish. But still, it's a nice game to play - if you have 
 nothing else left to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GwirithCaladiel
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  A lot of great things can be said about this game. It's definitely an improvement comparing it 
 to the previous games of the same line; but I must say that that improvement didn't reach the gameplay. 
 
  It's true that the graphics are stunning, the characters have better design and don't look anymore 
 like paper-dolls. The environments are pretty well created, if just have some minor errors at some 
 points; the storyline is something that's worth watching (and playing) , because despite it isn't 
 at all exactly developed as the ploy stated in the book or the movie, it makes a fine addition 
 to the HP universe, making the game a good stand-alone in that area. 
  But nothing is perfect and this game is no exception: the game is too easy, and once you learn 
 to manage the controls, there's no further mind-challenging work left on the game. I think that 
 it is ok for Harry Potter die-hard fans (as me) , and children, which is great, because it's one 
 of the few games that I absolutely recommend for little people, since as I said, it's easy and 
 entertaining for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GammaMegaciborg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Well it'a a good game indeed. I've played better, but Harry Potter and the Prisioner of Azkaban 
 it's a fantastic game. I love to collect the Wizard cards!
  Pity we can't play Quidditch! But we can fly in Buckbeak! It's a great game. Play it! Thats all 
 I have to say. 
  
  sorry, but this review must be at least 100 words! Sorry:
  ooo oooo ooooo oooo ooo oooo oooo ooooo ooooo oooo ooooo ooo oo o oo o o o oo o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o oooo oo oo o o o oo o o o o o o o o o oooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerjosh
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Two Words. Too Short. Very easy, but very fun either way. It was fun to try and figure 
 out which spell to use one what. I would have scored an 8 for gameplay, if it were a bit harder 
 (or had difficulty settings) , and if the Boss fight was actually difficult. (I had no idea it was 
 the boss fight until I saw the credits rolling)
  
  Graphics: The graphics were up to my standards, although the character models could have been a 
 bit more well done.
  
  Sound: During the game, Harry (or who ever I was playing with at the time) CONSTANTLY repeated 
 themselves by saying things like "Come help!" This drove me insane. The music is also a bit repetitive.
 
  
  Value: Basicly no replay value. The game was not worth the money.
  
  The Bad: The game often froze during the cut scenes. This drove me insane, therefore, it lost points. 
 (I dont know if it was just my PC/Game) It was MUCH too short and easy, as the puzzles were childish. 
 Harry (or who ever I was playing with at the time) CONSTANTLY repeated themselves by saying things 
 like "Come help!"
  
  The Good: The Puzzles are amusing, even if they are childishly easy. Its fun to have multiple spells 
 to cast.
  
  Summary: Don't buy the game. Rent it, and play it on a console. (I dont recomend the GameCube version, 
 and have not played the PS2 version) You will probably finish it in a day, assuming you play it 
 alot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is definately the best of the first three games in the 
 series. It has something about that is extremely fun, but it is WAY too short. I think I passed 
 it in about two and a half hours, and, if you've read the book, you'll find they cover most everything 
 (except Quidditch, most to everyone's dismay) , but go over it rather quickly and the game focuses 
 in mainly on the new spells and charms you get to learn. There is a varitey of new spells, and 
 they have all improved from the previous games (except for Flipendo, which has been replaced by 
 a different charm) . If you are a die-hard HP fan, you will enjoy this game, as I did and I think 
 most everyone did, no matter for how long it keeps you busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RummanDoesRule
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:44 am PT
Review:  Its a Great Game Never Lets U Down Maan I Had A prob Savin 50 bucks for it!!! I Have It on PC Maaan 
 Oh Maan Great Game And A Great Movie!! Buy it Buy It Buy IT!!!! The Reason Its Best Is Cause A 
 Wide Range Of Speels This time, Can Play As Hermy ,Harry And Ron. New Wizarding Cards, Flying Buckbeak 
 Quidditch , Firebolt and Cauldron Cakes and Pumpkin Pasties! Its Really Great ! Buy It U Wont Regret 
 It ! U Gotta See The Graphs Also Cause It Even Supports 32 MB Graphics Card!! Most O Tha Games 
 R 64 mb Required But This Game Really Puts The Fun In Everybodies Life including hipocrites Hu 
 Dont Like Harry Potter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdraciel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:12 am PT
Review:  Well, its here, Harry potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban ,has been released, and is pretty much like 
 the older games. The graphics have improved, but not too significantly. This game features a bunch 
 of new spells, some of which are special to each Ron, Harry and Hermione. New collectibles such as 
 cauldron cakes and pumpkin pasties have been introduced in this game, but then, of course, we also 
 have everyone's favorite Bertie Bptts every flavor beans. The main features of this game are that 
 we can play as Harry ,as well as Ron and Hermione. New mini -games such as Hippogriph riding have 
 also been introduced.
  But ,again, this game features the same old pattern as the previous games, which makes the gameplay 
 a bit dul and repetitive.
  So, if you're a die-hard Harry Potter fan, you may buy this game ,but for others, I suggest you rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre-791
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what to say. This is a very fun and addicting game. Once you start playing, you will 
 be hooked into it. In this game, you can play as Harry, Ron and Hermoine. You can also unlock secret 
 rooms and wizard cards. Unfortunately, you don't get to play a quidditch game, but it is very fun 
 and addicting. This game will be fun for kids and adults. If you like past Harry Potter games, 
 this appeal to you. You get to use not only beans but pumpkin pasties and cauldron cakes to buy 
 passwords to get to secret areas. My favorite spell challenge is the glacious challenge. You get 
 to slip and slide. It also gets frusturating when trying to get all of the prizes. This is a fun 
 and easy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 31, 2004 8:00 am PT
Review:  [Sigh] What a disappointing game. It functions - there were no discernable bugs in the game and 
 it ran rather smoothly. But compared to the much longer and more challenging games in this series, 
 this game is severely disappointing.
  
  There are only three new spells in the game, and really only two locations - outside Hogwarts and 
 inside. The game feels much smaller than the others. There are far fewer things to do. And what 
 missions there are are short and so easy that you will not have a difficult time making it through 
 on the first try.
  
  The characters have a stamina bar, but it doesn't really matter - they can take so much damage 
 that you'll never really have to worry about it. And even on the few occasions where you might 
 make a huge blunder and waste some stamina, the game overcompensates with chocolate frogs to heal 
 you.
  
  The graphics were effective, but not very pretty or innovative. The same can be said for the sound. 
 The voice acting was fine overall, but some of it was absolutely horrid.
  
  For anyone who has played the first games, you will be hard pressed to make the main missions take 
 you more than about an hour and a half. What made the other games fun were the numerous secrets 
 hidden around the game. You will not have a difficult time finding them this time around. An extra 
 hour or two of gameplay would be more than ample to finish the game.
  
  The controls were a bit dodgy from time to time, particularly in the Hippogriff flying segments 
 of the game. The inability to move adequately when flying the dragon or hopping the rabbit is also 
 frustrating.
  
  Overall, this is a disappointing addition to the Harry Potter game universe. Given the quality 
 of the third book in Rowling's series, there were a good number of sequences that suited themselves 
 for an action game. They didn't take advantage of the opportunities. As such, I highly recommend 
 avoiding this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alestian
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2004 7:23 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the Harry Potter games thus far. I can assure you that this one, the Prisoner 
 of Azkaban, beats the first two by a long shot. The graphics are a hundred times better. You get 
 to play as Ron and Hermione and not just Harry like the first two. You get to collect more shields, 
 more beans, more stuff! You get to hang out at Fred and George's shop and buy whatever you want 
 with the beans, cauldron cakes, and pumpkins that you find along the way. You can replay challenges 
 and final exams. Speaking of which, the challenges are harder than the first two games combined. 
 They are scary, tougher, more challenging, and more beautiful than before. If you read the third 
 book already then that is a bonus because now you will get to see characters that you read about 
 and haven't seen before. It's just a fantastic game and for $29 it is well worth every dollar. 
 I HIGHLY recommend the PC version only because I'm partial to PC. The XBOX is nice, but I think 
 you will enjoy the PC version better. Anyway, if you are wondering whether or not to buy the game, 
 definitely do. It is a gigantic leap ahead of the first two games and you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
