-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heart of Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/heartofdarkness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.2, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 275 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Amazing Studio
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date:     Aug 31, 1998
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Heart of Darkness isn't a bad game. It's a bit short and a bit frustrating, but it's always moderately 
 fun and it's occasionally very fun. 

 There was a period in time when the side-scrolling action-adventure was a dominant computer game 
 genre. Computer side-scrollers were differentiated from their console counterparts by relying more 
 upon puzzle solving than button pushing, with two games - Out of this World and Flashback - being 
 prime examples of the genre (a complete list would also have to include the Prince of Persia games, 
 the Dark Castle games, and even early efforts like Karateka, Conan, and Bruce Lee) . The genre returns 
 to its roots with Amazing Studios' Heart of Darkness, a simple and frustrating little chunk of 
 a side scroller.  

 The only recent game to which Heart of Darkness can be compared is Abe's Oddysee, but even that 
 comparison comes up a little short. Abe's was pure puzzle solving; Heart of Darkness is a mixture 
 of action-oriented puzzles and puzzle-oriented action. As such, it can really only be compared 
 to Flashback and Out of this World, a not-so-surprising fact considering that Amazing Studios is 
 made up of numerous people who worked on both of those games. Like its predecessors, Heart of Darkness 
 is made up of a series of static screens. In each screen there is a small puzzle, or piece of a 
 larger puzzle that will encompass several screens. The puzzle can be as simple as jumping over 
 a crawling beast or as complex as figuring out how to activate some mechanism that will open a 
 door several screens away while keeping an ever-increasing number of enemies at bay.  

 As I said, it's frustrating. Many will find it far too frustrating, but Out of this World and Flashback 
 (both generally acknowledged as great games) were equally as hard. Heart of Darkness will test 
 your reflexive ability, your timing, and your eye-hand coordination. But more than anything, it 
 will test your patience. You'll repeat segments over and over and over again until perfecting them, 
 and then you'll die on the next segment and have to do them over.   

 What's most impressive about Heart of Darkness is its environment. Story-wise, it's not much different 
 from one of those movies about kids and their associated monsters that became a dime a dozen in 
 the wake of ET. You play Andy, a little boy who has lost his dog during an eclipse. More directly, 
 the dog was lost to the eclipse, snatched away to some nether realm of darkness and shadow. Andy, 
 though, has a hat made out of a colander and some lights, a toy gun that shoots lightning, and, 
 best of all, an airplane - so everything should work out fine.   

 OK, so the story isn't that great. But once Andy gets to the nether realm, the art and enemy design 
 is fantastic. The enemies are mostly shadowy, simian-like creatures, which are entirely black except 
 for their glowing green eyes. Other enemies aren't just shadowy, but actual shadows - and you'll 
 have to knock out the object creating them to get past. It creates a truly hostile, frightening 
 world, and more importantly, the designers are able to reuse the same enemies in many different 
 ways to keep the progression challenging.  

 The graphics themselves are almost the game's best point. At a higher resolution, they would be 
 beautiful - the incredibly lifelike animations and detailed backdrops are pretty marvelous. Unfortunately, 
 the low resolution keeps things a little blocky, which puts a damper on the obvious care put into 
 the art. Said low resolution is the only clue that the game has been in development as long as 
 it has (anywhere from five to seven years according to various sources) ; the game itself is quite 
 short. The sound is always appropriate, and the music, sparse as it may be, is a dramatic score 
 performed by the London Philharmonic Symphony.  

 Apart from the difficulty, there was only one other frustrating factor to Heart of Darkness: the 
 end. It simply didn't feel like an ending. The game (or at least the story) sort of just stops. 
 Sure, there's a big cinematic at the conclusion (and it's important to note that the cinematics 
 are quite impressive) , but it doesn't feel like a satisfying conclusion. There is, however, a great 
 little surprise after the credits if you manage to sit through them.  

 Heart of Darkness isn't a bad game. It's a bit short and a bit frustrating, but it's always moderately 
 fun and occasionally very fun. Those who played Out of this World and Flashback will probably be 
 more forgiving of its shortcomings and will undoubtedly feel some sense of nostalgia as they work 
 their way through Heart of Darkness. Others will probably see a game that could have been incredible 
 had it come out four or five years ago but now is just a somewhat nice-looking fairy tale with 
 a vague story and the strange effect of causing people to tear their hair out, clump by clump. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macca366
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  First of all. I played and beat this game back when i was in about grade 6. i was completely immersed 
 into the story, feeling scared with Andy being in this hellish alternate reality with monsters 
 and untold things... his dog lost. I really felt like i was along for the adventure too. Being 
 sixteen, when i look back, if i had played this now i would not have been so immersed into the 
 world. Staying up late in my room huddled up convinced i was in the screen fighting for these people.
 
  
  Alot of people say how annoying and unresponsive it is. It is hard, I'll say that, you will die 
 in about the first 2-3 scenes when you first play. Once you get the feel and idea that there is 
 no mercy just because the main character is a little boy, you will find that it is just challenging 
 and extremely rewarding once you figure out that puzzle that was on the tip of your tongue and 
 you move on, to the next intrigueing part of the story.
  
  The story moves along quite well, like a movie. It's deeper than it originally seems at first. 
 Building up to a climatic finish with an encounter with the source of evil, the heart of darkness 
 itself. The words spoken by the main enemy still strikes me today, 'what's the matter Andy, afraid 
 of the dark?..'
  
  Although the ending is quite disapointing. Although some might find it comforting.
  
  I would 
 recommend this if you are young, and up for some hard work, immersion and slight scares i highly 
 recommend this to you. A true adventure that gives you that nostalgic feeling looking back.
  
  I only wish i could find my old copy XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaijer79
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The age that hundreds games release every year, it's impossible to play all games. Some of them, 
 there are big hit games to owe to their fame, there is the other way and there are overrated games.
 
  And, although the quality of a game, there are unlucky game why it's not favorable time for it. 
 One of my review, D-3 was such a game, and I will introduce the game, Heart of Darkness is also 
 such a game.
  
  In the past, the age that most developer developed games from a lot of adventures, RPG and Adventure 
 game was genre to lead the game market.
  But some players who couldn't be satisfied only to see developed games which emphasize a action, 
 so that's why games which emphasized only to be showy more than important quality appeared. And 
 most player were familiar those games, and they were getting forgetful the adventure games.
  
  Around then, Heart of Darkness released.
  1992, they announced to develop it at first, after 
 that, if this game which released in 1998 compare with anther games which released at that time, 
 HOD is a shabby game. the graphic seems to see the test version of Starcraft which released a few 
 month later.
  
  Eric Chahi who developed Out of this world designed HOD, the story is only one weak point of HOD, 
 very simple and clear, so that's why it's Width-Scroll-Arcade-Adventure Game that the target is 
 children.
  
  Although it's insufficient to call the legitimacy adventure game, im sure it's great work to show 
 well a part of adventure game.
  
  it looks to mix between Adventure and Shooting, HOD frequently cross the border of two relations 
 very well. They removed a part of adventure which to be boring easily, schematize simply, and imported 
 Shooting genre, they produced an atmosphere to concentrate the game. Of course they have a lot 
 of puzzle as adventure but it's not difficult, and they created various game style with puzzle.
 
  
  Especially the monster chased behind player, the obstacle interrupt in front of player, and player 
 have to get through a crisis to use various items.
  we seem to be Indiana Jones...
  
  Although the story is willful not to believe, the quality is very good to be the story. Especially 
 level design is excellent like genius, then we have to decide quickly, to cope with crisis quickly, 
 to move quickly. Like Indiana Jones.
  
  However, this game has only auto-save, and the artificial intelligence of enemies is higher than 
 I think, you might be difficult to kill the enemies.
  
  The Target of story is children, but it's very simple and clear, so that's why this game close 
 Shooting game more than Adventure game. Although that happens, it's enough to enjoy, then, if the 
 quality is good, we can enjoy for a long time even the time changes, they show it. The unlucky 
 game which released in a wrong time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chutup
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant, a masterpiece. I've heard it was frustrating, but it sounds to me like 
 the people who said that were just crap at videogames. It's not frustrating, just challenging.
 
  Gameplay: really good gameplay, a nice mix of puzzles and action. There's lots of variety in the 
 action - sometimes you'll be fighting, sometimes solving puzzles, jumping gaps, swimming past enemies, 
 dodging traps and more. 
  Graphics: the graphics are amazing, it's 2006 and they still look good. The resolution is just 
 plain awful, even in the FMVs, but this can't stop the brilliant art design from shining through. 
 Every character and environment looks great. While most sidescrollers repeat their background sprites 
 over and over, Heart of Darkness has almost no repitition in backgrounds. The graphics are brilliant.
 
  sound: the music is mostly good, especially the main theme. The voice acting is excellent, especially 
 the idiotic flying friend Amigo. Sly chuckles from the shadow-like enemies and other environmental 
 noises round out the package.
  value: the game is fairly short, but it's good value in as much as you won't feel ripped off when 
 it finishes. The short length actually helps the brilliant story, because the writers didn't have 
 to cram huge amounts of gameplay between each plot point.
  This game is awesome, it has fairly simple but fun gameplay set against a background of presentation 
 which is unmatched except by the most brilliant of titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shroompie
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 9, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  It's an okay game, it's very short or very long depending how much time you spent figuring out 
 the puzzles. The sound is really good and the graphics, while at a low resolution, are superb and 
 incredibly detailed and the animations are smooth. Andy reacts to everything very well and lifelike, 
 and the puzzles are well-planned out. If it could be longer, it wouldn't keep entertaining the 
 audience because it is extremely repetitive. I would recommend this for a few hours wasted, but 
 I knew the French developer (forgot his name) could've made this better, just like Out of This 
 World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Heart of Darkness is a game that i think almost anyone would like. In the game you play as a boy 
 whose name i forgot (like in some other of my reviews, i'm not good with names) who is trying to 
 save his dog. The story starts out as you in school ...... bla bla bla.... then your in the park 
 and something blocks out the sun and a shadow steals your dog. From then on you go in a plane you 
 made fly ... bla bla bla... (p. s. this is all a CG cut scene) . K now the game start and basiclly 
 your shooting enemies with your gun or your special power you obtain later on while trying to save 
 your dog. The dog was taken by accident because it was acctually you that was supposed to be taken. 
 One of the funnest things to do in the game is get eaten, it is so addicticing. Anyway... Gameplay: 
 thumbs up, Graphics: this game is 2D, you look ugly but the enemies look good (strange) , Sound: 
 good voice acting, enemies have nice sounds too. Value: Get it, for sure it is under $5. I recommend 
 this game to anyone cause it is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwdRaymannl
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitly worth playing, the graphics are really fine and the enviroments are mostly 
 animated with moving plants, objects and backgrounds.
  
  in the beginning of the game an eclipse takes your dog.
  the main character (Andy) is quite a 
 whizz and uses his flying machine to save his dog.
  
  you start in this strange world where shadows live, to blast them you use your electro gun but 
 you lose this weapon after a few minutes of playing (some hungry monster felt like eating it)
 
  but you obtain a new kind of power bij touching a glowing rock.
  This gives you power to fire bolts and even charging up to fire bigger bolts.
  You also use it 
 to grow seeds to trees so you can climb them.
  
  in the game you meet some pretty vague toony creatures that live around and try to defend themselves 
 from the dark monsters.
  you'll notice you have to insert disc 2 pretty fast.
  The game isn't really big, but worth beating it a second time.
  
  the cutscenes are really 
 funny/cool but there isn't really a story in the game.
  This fantasy world works really well and i really enjoyed playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icewindy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  In HEART OF DARKNESS, a solar eclipse causes some strange things to happen. Namely, an alien force 
 kidnaps Andy's dog, Whisky. Take control of Andy as he travels through eight unique worlds and 
 solves puzzles. Some puzzles require lots of shooting, while others require lots of thinking. Full-motion 
 video clips reward the player for solving puzzles and advance the plot. Play HEART OF DARKNESS, 
 and help Andy save Whisky. Heart of Darkness is a great game that includes all the cool elements 
 of the old SNES game Out of This World and all the gorgeous scenery of Flashback. But after you're 
 done, you're done - there are no hidden rooms, secrets, or replayability in this game.
  
  HEART OF DARKNESS SPECIAL FEATURES 
  
   Eight worlds with 176 locations, variety of 
 puzzles and traps, clear and detailed sound effects and musical soundtrack, over 30 minutes of 
 film
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 14, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Im a sucker for 2D platformers and when they involve puzzle solving, even more. But HOD didnt 
 suck me in. The action is irresponsive, the puzzle solving is based on trial and error, yes, no 
 thinking just try to get it right. But even in this simple task it gets nasty because after you 
 get some part right some enemies are a litle random and you die because they pop in the wrong side 
 of the screen. But it is not all bad, when the commands are responsive and you dont repeat a scene 
 10 times the game can be fun, and the FMV make a nice touch moving the story forward. This is no 
 Mario or Abe but if you want a 2D platformer with a little thinking and less jumping Heart of Darkness 
 is a fair choise. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
