-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hearts of Iron II: Doomsday
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heartsofironiidoomsday/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Longer campaigns allow for more-satisfying conclusions.
 Great Cold War flavor, with a nuclear race, spies, and military hardware specific to the era.
 Tremendous amount of content for an expansion pack, especially one retailing for under $20.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Plays similarly to the original Hearts of Iron II, but with nukes.
 Graphics and audio are still extremely mediocre.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 642 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 7, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Doomsday heats up the Cold War with nukes and spies. 

  Even though wondering "What if?" has always been a popular pastime for armchair generals, Paradox 
 Interactive has stayed away from speculation. Franchises such as Europa Universalis and Hearts 
 of Iron feature authenticity so precise that you often feel like you're paging through a textbook. 
 Playing geopolitical sims such as these should earn you credit toward a BA in History due to such 
 a rigid "just the facts, ma'am" design philosophy.  

          Invading Japan is sort of satisfying, although there is no doubt that irradiating Hiroshima 
 and Nagasaki would make everything a whole lot easier.     

  Until now, that is. Doomsday, a stand-alone expansion for World War II uber-simulation Hearts of 
 Iron II, takes Paradox into the world of alternative history for the first time. And it succeeds 
 in a big way, thanks to the seamless transition from a realistic depiction of the conflict between 
 the Allies and the Axis to an imaginative look at how the tense early years of the Cold War could 
 have unfolded. Gameplay feels too familiar to be entirely pleasing, especially if you've spent 
 much of the past year running roughshod over Hitler or slapping around Stalin in the compulsively 
 playable (well, once you ascended past the cliff-like learning curve) original game. But if you're 
 looking for more of the same, this is a winning approach.  

  There aren't any surprises here. The look and feel of the expansion match the original game right 
 down to the shrill musical score and the lame fixed resolution of 1024x768. Doomsday is a standard 
 expansion with fairly standard accoutrements. It includes a new campaign, along with odds and ends 
 such as updated units, a US/USSR invasion-of-Japan scenario (although it must be said that the 
 Soviets don't seem to help all that much) , and a scenario editor. The centerpiece is a revamped 
 grand campaign that lets you set a starting point between 1936 and 1945, and play to January 1, 
 1954. Choose to start with the Doomsday scenario in October, 1945, and you come onboard as the 
 Allies are forced to defend Western Europe against the swarming Red Army by nuking Moscow. Nothing 
 like getting things going with a bang.  

  Moving the finish line into the 1950s redresses a problem with Hearts of Iron II. Earlier, campaigns 
 ended abruptly too often. You'd be right in the middle of a big push into France or on the verge 
 of finally deploying the A-bomb, and the game would wrap at the end of 1946 with a dissatisfying 
 tallying of victory points. Wins seemed cheap at times, and losing could be really aggravating, 
 particularly when the calendar, not the enemy, cut off your grand plan for world domination.  

 
  Games still end a little brusquely; New Year's Day in 1954 arrives all too soon. But the additional 
 years typically provide enough time to bring the cataclysmic war in Western Europe to a gratifying 
 climax. There isn't quite enough time to wrap things up on a global scale, however. You get a sense 
 of the Cold War's early tension as the race to develop nuclear weapons heats up through the later 
 1940s and early 1950s, although games usually seem to end before a nation emerges as the clear 
 winner or has at least thoroughly nuked rivals into the Stone Age. Even though an extra few years 
 would have been nice, you don't find yourself thinking "I wonder what would happen six months from 
 now?" nearly as much as before at the end of campaigns.  

  The additional seven years tacked on to Doomsday are tricked out with enough new units to enhance 
 the feel that you're not quite playing Hearts of Iron II. Much of the advanced military hardware 
 that characterized the Cold War is on offer here, including attack helicopters, nuclear submarines, 
 H-bombs, ICBMs, surface-to-air missiles, advanced rocketry, jet aircraft, and so forth. If you 
 could build it in the real world in the late 1940s and early 1950s, chances are you can research 
 and build it here.  

  All of the new hardware is overshadowed by the mad rush to split the atom and build an arsenal 
 of nukes, though. Just as in the real Cold War, nuclear power dominates the scene no matter how 
 much in-game alliances and events differ from those in the history books. That said, it's not easy 
 to go all  Dr. Strangelove . You need to put serious effort into tech to develop the H-bomb and 
 the ICBMs required to deliver it to enemy cities, and that can be nearly impossible while a conventional 
 war is ravaging Europe and Asia.  

  Spend too much time on tech and not enough on production while guiding an Allied power such as 
 the US or UK, and the massive Red Army could soon march into Paris. Conversely, while the Soviets 
 can bypass production due to numerical superiority as the campaign gets started, they begin without 
 nuclear technology and must race to acquire it before the clock runs out in 1953. In short, everything 
 is balanced, and there are no simple answers to tactical questions.  

  Intelligence further adds to the Cold War atmosphere. Oddly omitted from the original Hearts of 
 Iron II, spies play a huge role here. They are crucial when it comes to the nuclear race, as well-placed 
 agents can steal the technology needed to provide an atomic edge. Spies are particularly vital 
 for the Soviets, who need to deploy them to catch up with the Allied ability to make enemy cities 
 glow in the dark.  

          Hmm, that map is getting awfully red, awfully fast. Better dish off some nukes.     

 
  But espionage isn't easy. Agents actively trying to steal tech, foment rebellion, sabotage industries, 
 or assassinate enemy ministers are at great risk of being detected. The artificial intelligence 
 does an impressive job picking off spies, so it is very difficult to play Julius and Ethel Rosenberg 
 and gather information effectively. Spies can be sent in as sleepers in deep cover, but this limits 
 the information provided, makes intel unreliable (an overrun Berlin taught us not to rely on sleeper 
 intelligence about Soviet armor) , and prevents you from pulling off major missions such as swiping 
 tech blueprints.  

  Basically, if you want more Hearts of Iron II, Doomsday is a great bet. It feels a bit too much 
 like its big brother, but all of the speculative history, nuclear tension, and Cold War spice make 
 it a great addition to Paradox's stable of strategy games. It's also a great bargain when you consider 
 the sheer amount of game you get here for less than $20 and the extra hours you'll get out of what 
 modders will undoubtedly create with the scenario editor.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SerbWarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  You know, generals should, instead of planing, play Hearts of Iron...
  Hearts of Iron II Doomsday, is a how to manual for ruling the world...
  If Hitler had this game, he 
 just might have sucsseded in his insane plan...
  What HoI Doomsday offers is an incredibly realistic expirience of geopolitics and strategy!
  
 Spying, trading, diplomacy, war every espect of running a state is considered in HoI!
  Propaganda, stealing blue prints, making workers of opposing countrys unhappy, assassination, making 
 a pupet state (i. e. putting your corupt and loyal slave to head of a enemy state, so that you may 
 control it... because in HoI EVERYONE is your friend, AND enemy...
  When your troops fight, MANY things effect the outcome, weather, time of day/night, terrain on which 
 the battle is fought, of course numbers and quality of troops, moral, general commanding the troops, supply 
 lines i. e. logistics etc...
  It also offers every nation that existed in WWII, a vide selecton of troops, ships, tanks and airplanes...
 
  A great tech tree and a chance to get back at Hitler...
  If you like chess or any strategy, tactis game, HoI is made for you...
  The worst, and best part 
 of HoI is that its very difficult to master...
  You can spend 10 years playing the game, you will still find new ways 
  to achieve your goal!
 
  If you are the kind of guy, who likes strategy, tactics, geopolitics, and incredibly detailed and 
 complex game...
  HoI was made in mind for you!
  Overall rating:9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daelyn75
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron II Doomsday, is simply Hearts of Iron II with an expansion called Doomsday that 
 adds in many new options that increase the number of scenarios, said to improve AI, and gives you 
 the new ability to spy on other nations. The game is a grand strategy game of the Second World 
 War. The whole world is there for you to play on, every country, every division, ship, and air 
 wing.
  
  Its hard to criticize Hearts of Iron 2 or HOI 2 for short , as it has no rival except for perhaps 
 some of Paradox's other games which take place at other times in history, and the fact that its 
 so heavily modable. I myself have played this game to death over and over, and when I felt that 
 it could use some more spicing up I either go looking for other mods out there or create my own 
 events to make it more realisic or challenging. Spending countless hours on this game for myself 
 tends to keep me focused on the game and nothing else and at times I have lost a lot of sleep. 
 There have been so many changes since HoI 1 that even with the vanilla game and all its patches 
 that it has addressed nearly all the issues that players had with the first game.
  
  This game and all paradox games have a following of many dedicated fans, who if ever one is to 
 doubt this then all they have to do is to go and visit the official forums, and see that even four 
 years later the game has been out that it still gets many posts every day, showing that these games 
 from Paradox are not only good, but with how moddable they are that they have a long life span 
 untill of course Paradox releases a new version of the game. 
  
  First off the game has a very minimum economic aspect to it, but it does the job to keep the game 
 interesting. This includes a very abstracted concept of total industrial output called IC (industrial 
 capacity) , and you have to have enough energy, iron, and rare materials to run these. To maintain 
 an airforce, navy, and gasoline using land units one needs oil, which interestingly (and for some 
 countries) it is a necessity in that you can use part of your energy output to create oil which 
 only gets more efficient with higher tech research. All units require supplies as well, which is 
 produced from your IC, and when you have a very large military the supply consumption can really 
 be something that takes away a lot from your unit production, of course this through the techs 
 can be slightly improved but at best no more then 25% through the industrial tech screen, and could 
 also be helped through your ministers just as much or a little better percentage wise on top of 
 that.
  
  Manpower is the final resource and one that is just as important as all the others. You recieve 
 a daily amount of manpower and some events give you lump sums, but often especially as say Germany, 
 manpower is a serious concern, watch your casualties in battles, and try to do more with less instead 
 of building 300 infantry divisions, I find that at best 150 will do, along with two dozen panzers 
 complimented with motorised divisions will do most of what the game requires of you. By pass the 
 enemies strong points instead of getting into costly manpower battles a la Stalingrad to conserve 
 losses, and try to use airpower to back up your battles whenever possible.
  
  Next is the technology screen, theres so many techs to research and for perhaps maybe only two 
 countries U. S. A., and Germany it is possible to research it all. Although I can make the claim 
 to never have played England as even though all my ancestors come from Great Britain, I have no 
 desire to play as them as they are somewhat limited in manpower and IC, so I cannot attest to their 
 prowess in research. But Japan, after Germany, the U. S. A. and possibly England is the next in the 
 running, and my guess fifth place goes to the Soviet Union. Successfully researching techs bring 
 you new units, the abiltiy to research improved versions of these new units, and eventually to 
 bring really neat things such as rockets and nuclear bombs into the game. 
  
  But not every country really needs every unit, Japan is a good example, most people don't research 
 and create a large armored ground force as usually Infantry, and marines will do just fine, otherwise 
 Japan with its limited IC and research teams will be too spread out and eventually get left behind. 
 Doctrines for your army, navy, and airforce bring better capabilities for them to perform in combat, 
 and even hospital techs which let your casualities trickle back into the general manpower pool 
 at better rates. Finally tech blueprints can be traded or even stolen which gives you the abiltiy 
 to keep up with the best of the nations in your alliance somewhat.
  
  Theres diplomatic options and the ability to spy or counter spy. These are very basic in their 
 functionality as well. Diplomacy can be improved by setting up resource trading or sending money 
 to that country in an attempt to improve relations with them. I am not so sure improving relations 
 unless they are a good trading partner, or a nation you wish to bring into your alliance is all 
 that important, because the game seems to be hard wired for certain nations to attack others eventually, 
 so as the U. S. A. trying to placate Japan, it might have a little bearing on moving their eventual 
 war declaration back a few months, but honeslty I don't think it will make the slightest bit of 
 difference. Although as Japan I did keep the US out of the war with good relations until I was 
 ready for war by 1943, but that could have been a series of flukes as the States might have just 
 have gone with decisions that would bring their nation less towards an interventionist policy, 
 which would be completely a serious random percentage chances within whatever the event programers 
 decided to make it.
  
  The intelligence screen is where the spying and counterspying is done. It is somewhat useful as 
 you can see how large the enemies military is, and you can kill off any spys within your nation. 
 Here I think its rather player lopsided as the AI seems to not utilize this function anywhere near 
 where it could. So it ends up with the player sending off spy after spy to a nation which never 
 uses its counterspy abiltiy and rarely if ever sends off spys anywhere else. You can steal tech 
 blueprints (halves research costs) , attempt to perform coups, or kill enemy ministers, or to delay 
 production or even to give the nation a bad reputation which is called beligerance. But on the 
 whole the game could easily survive without the intelligence panel.
  
  Hearts of Iron II Doomsday comes with many scenarios, but most people as far as I know usually 
 play on only the 1936 scenario which is the vanilla earliest one. Most people play as the major 
 countries which of course include Germany, Soviet Union, England, France, U. S. A., Japan, and Italy, 
 but others have had interesting and even successful games with minor countries such as Hungary 
 or Argentina. 
  
  Modding the game yourself is an attempt at very basic programming when it comes to creating events. 
 Events are issues that come up randomly or through certain conditions whihc usually is time that 
 has been met that confer a bonus or malus to your nation. Modding the AI myself is something I 
 have steered away from but it is doable if you are hell bent on getting into it. Its possible to 
 change the unit sprites to whatever you want by your own hand or that of all the mods out there 
 that are free and easy to download, which also goes for the events and the AI. Nation flags, new 
 nations, new units, unit statisitics, color of the nations and more are all moddable as well. Theres 
 a bunch of notable mods that cover basically everything in the game and can give you a vastly different 
 playing experience.
  
  Combat in the game is where a vast improvement over the original HOI has taken place, move to attack 
 is now how its played instead of having your armies travel for weeks to the province thats right 
 next to the one they are in then to do battle. Waging war can be a lot of fun, especially when 
 easy victory is not a certainty, and encircling enemy armies to then make them surrender when giving 
 the final push into the pocket can be very satisfying. More provinces equal more resources, and 
 IC, and less for your opponents. Victory over a nation unless by specific event is done when you 
 grab all of their provinces with victory points. You can bring to heel nations as your puppets 
 and they then give you portions of their IC and resources. All allies can be militarily controlled 
 through the diplomacy screen, and then you can use their armies nearly like to that of your own 
 which can really help in certain situations, especially if manpower is an issue or if you really 
 don't feel like building 30 divisions to guard coastlines from invasion you can use your allies 
 or puppeted nations units to do that.
  
  There are main alliances in the game, Allies, England, France and the commonwealth, Comintern Soviet 
 Union and their puppets, and the Axis Germany, and any allies they wish or are capable of brining 
 in such as Italy, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Finland and even Japan and possibly even more. Other 
 countries can create their own alliances, but unless they go into one of these main alliances its 
 not possible to win the game. Which brings me to how does one win the game? I do not know as I 
 have never seen the victory screen. I have created events that will bring victory, but still I 
 have not gotten to that point yet myself. I have won several times, where there are no more in 
 the other alliances, but I think you then have to wait for the clock to run out, and that I just 
 don't have the patience to do to sit around and wait for game years and years. It also depends 
 on when you set the scenario up to end, but who wants the game to end in 1948 when you can't be 
 sure that that last nation will be conquered by then? Usually I set it up for the 50s or 60s to 
 end, but I have never had the clock run out on me up to that point. 1951 is the latest I have played 
 as Japan in which the last enemy was a fortified England that was a tough nut to crack but eventually 
 even without Nuclear weapons I was able to get in and conquer.
  
  Drawbacks for the experienced player is the AI, its not very poor like it used to be since the 
 original HOI but its still unless one seriously handicaps themselves through difficultiy levels 
 at scenario starts, through self imposed house rules, or through difficulty increasing mods is 
 pretty easy to sweep through without a sweat. Half the game is your army size and organization 
 of the units, don't have enough units for the invasion or the Soviet Union? Then it can be a challenge, 
 and to me that really was the original hurdle of the game, get enough of the right units and put 
 them together in ways that they compliment eachother and thats half the game difficulty right there. 
 The other half is combat, how to use and how much force to use to get jobs done, this is learned 
 usually the hard way but for strategy minded gamers its not a serious hurdle. Other than the AI 
 bugs are not an issue, there has been so many patches and now two expansions (doomsday got a minor 
 expansion called "Armaggedon") , that its a non issue other than a list of very minor bugs.
  
  I do have to say that the game can be daunting to a person not familiar to this type of game, 
 which could put a lot of people off if they simply are overwhelmed by the sheer amount of screens 
 to go through to keep your empire at top efficiency, or the amount of options it has to organize 
 and to use your armies in warfare, but in my opinion the more options, and complicated game the 
 better so long as its not seriously repititious in anyway. This is a serious strategy gamers dream 
 through and through, I my self made it more difficult for playing as Germany and the Soviet Union 
 through a series of events but still the war usually ends between these two nations in 1943-1944, and 
 then its just a matter of fighting England and the U. S. A..
  
  The game also has a multiplayer component which I regretably have not had the pleasure of partaking 
 in. Thats obviously where the real challenge against other alliances comes from. But from what 
 i've read they tend to turn into gamey fests of one nation building 500 submarine units or some 
 such, but honestly I can't say too much about multiplayer.
  
  Overall the game to me is fun, but I tend to overplay it once every few months then get sick of 
 it often without finishing the game I started. At later game stages 1944+ the game often slows 
 down on my computer which makes it more tedious to continue on especuially once your greatest enemy 
 nation is thouroghly defeated. But the game to me as a strategy player is a must have and I don't 
 know what strategy games i'd be playing today without it, but they certainly in the World War Two 
 department would be lacking. There will one day be a HOI 3 and all of us HOI 2 gamers are heavily 
 anticipating it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  In a market that is filled to the brim with sub par World War 2 shooters, yet is surprisingly empty 
 of good grand strategy games, Hearts of Iron 2 and its add-ons shine like a beacon of hope for 
 strategy afficionados and history buffs everywhere. It is incredibly deep and satisfying, allowing 
 you to play any country in the world and playing your own part in this incredibly violent and tumultuous 
 period in history. Graphically, this game gets the job done. Much of the game is a series of maps 
 showing the political and economic state of the world. It doesn't have the flash of RTS or mainstream 
 strategy games, but Hearts of Iron is no mainstream strategy game. It's much more than that.
  
  Gameplay is what you're looking for when you pick up Hearts of Iron 2. The game features incredibly 
 deep and involved combat. Defending your country from advantageous terrain, avoiding attacking 
 across rivers or marching through jungle, encircling and capturing enemy divisions, gaining air 
 superiority, and choosing the time of day at which to launch an operation all factor into the combat. 
 The game can be as easy or as hard as you want, depending on what country you play. Playing as 
 the United States allows you to sit back and build up your industry, whereas playing a country 
 like Poland is very challenging, as you risk being assaulted in 2 different directions by 2 different 
 superpowers.
  
  I highly reccomend Hearts of Iron 2 to true strategy fans everywhere, because it's so addicting 
 and fun and yet it is often overlooked in favor of lame, flashy games. it is worth every penny. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Paradox has been long renowned by its brain-spinning grand strategy games, and this creation of 
 theirs, Doomsday, has also adequately spinned our brain.
  It\'s complex, however it\'s a fun complexity, so you\'ll enjoy it. Especially those who favors 
 detailed WW II strategy games. Well, it tries to resemble the real historical situation at that 
 time, after all.
  Consider yourself really as the supreme leader. If you control Poland and you want to declare war 
 on Germany before it invades you first, then so be it. This game has so many replayability points 
 so that you might want to repeat it over and over and carve the world history as you please. After 
 finishing from one nation's point of view, you may try the other. Unfortunately, for some nations 
 it's just impossible to carve the history their way. For example, you might favor to play as the 
 British than as the Czechs. The difference between the side nations and the superpowers are so 
 clearly revealed. The Panamanians might have starting IC just 5 (not even enough to build a single 
 factory) while the Soviets start with more than 200. That narrows the gameplay to a considerable 
 extent. Playing as the superpowers might offer you a substantial pace while when playing as the 
 side nations you might be able to spend a chapter or two of either Christie or Doyle's creations 
 when you try to build even only a single factory or army division.
  it\'s very detailed, for example on the country statistics, political structures and even their 
 techteams. We may know that the Germans have Krupp, the British have Springfield Armory and the 
 Japanese have Mitsubishi but do we know what the Indonesians, Lebanese, Congolese, Yunnanese and 
 Albanians have? Doomsday knows.
  Why should it end on merely 1953? Why don\'t we advance further? Advancing longer, say to the 1960s 
 might offer us some extra sizeable gameplay experience. Too bad it's too short.
  Of course we can\'t hope much for the graphics and sounds of a grand strategy game, well imagine 
 how heavy the game will be if the graphics and sounds are also extraordinary. However, Doomsday 
 provides us with a historically-accurate photograph for the politicians, army commanders, special 
 events, techteam logos, armaments, etc. The music are also awe-inspiring.
  Be warned, you might spend a whole night trying to play this game even with only one nation.
 
  gameplay: 9 graphics: 6 sound: 7
  overall: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavyre99
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Great addition to an already decent game. Playing past 1948 is a real nice extra. I wish you could 
 speed up the time advancement beyond extreme and having a version of this that goes beyond the 
 1950s would be even cooler. Or even a Civil War version. Made by Paradox, its similar to Europa 
 Universalis which they are expanding that game to the 1820s soon.
  
  Great addition to an already decent game. Playing past 1948 is a real nice extra. I wish you could 
 speed up the time advancement beyond extreme and having a version of this that goes beyond the 
 1950s would be even cooler. Or even a Civil War version. Made by Paradox, its similar to Europa 
 Universalis which they are expanding that game to the 1820s soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cipriano18
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I played this kind of games since Europa Universalis was released, and i think it getting better 
 every time there is a new launch, the only sad aspect is that both hearts of iron and europa universalis 
 series argument's are just the same of their ancestors.. When EU3 was annouced i thought: another 
 EU? hum... maybe this one is about WW1... cool... - Total disapointment... It certainly improved 
 at all levels, but is just more from the same ...
  
  About Hearts of Iron II Doomsday: It adds intersting features to the previous game and fixes many 
 instabilty bugs, wich is great. The idea of introduce spys was good, but i think more enphasys 
 should have been given to spys during the game... the probabilties of getting your spys to attempt 
 anything are just to few to be credible, i mean, how it is possible that having 5 spys working 
 on enemy territory only gives you a probability of 3% to successfully kill an enemy minister..?
 
  
  Another thing that should have been improved was the building times of the units, especialy naval... 
 it takes an average time of 600 days do build a war vessel... I think there should be a tool to 
 adjust how many industries you wanted to work on that particular unit, more industries would mean 
 less time...
  
  I have read many comments about how complex this game is... Well i think it is realistic, nation's 
 management ain't easy so why should games, about this subject, be simple? If you like the subject 
 you will find interesting and challenging to play and try to balance every aspect of your nation... 
 If you don't like the subject, well... why did you bought the game?
  It is such simple as this...
  
  Greets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  What if the Germans did manage to invade Britain, or did not declare war against the Russians?
 
  Make history your own way in Hearts of Iron 2: Doomsday. Control all aspect of the country under 
 your control. Conduct research into highly advanced tanks, planes, infantry, and even deadly nukes!
 
  Plan your attacks, use your ground forces, navy and air force to help defeat your enemies, and 
 run WWII the way you want to.
  Start from 1936 and shape your forces before the start of the war in 1939, or start in 1944 and 
 save the Third Reich from total collapse. Play however you like.
  Fight to win, Fight to survive, COME OUT ON TOP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masenko007
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Best in the series. Doomsday has almost everything that is needed for a WW2 grand strategy game. 
 Upgrades, tactical movements, huge armies grappling for world domination, treachery and much more. 
 The addition of spies and an intelligence panel was long awaited, and the extension of tech trees 
 mirrored real life. A nuclear arms race was a great idea, and the opportunity of stealing atomic 
 research from the US for New Zealand as too good to pass up. The graphics do let the game down 
 somewhat, and the soundtrack gets a tad repetitive, but the sheer fun of overrunning England as 
 Ireland cannot be denied. I started as the US, and by 1940 had beaten Germany, Italy in a month 
 and by 1942 American armies marched through Tokyo AND Moscow. Whats not to like?! While it was 
 a bit pricey for me in New Zealand, ($60) Ive followed the game from HOI platinum, to HOI 2 and 
 now HOI 2, Doomsday. Cant wait to get a copy of the new Armageddon pack, I'm liking the ideas 
 of attachments to ships and divisions made with brigades already attached. Ill be playing for 
 years to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serginhoeduardo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: If I could, I'd give it a 11, but a 10 is enough.
  
  If you can play this game, you have to love it, through all the 1 hour-at-the-time 17 years. What 
 is more fun than messing up history, destroying the 3rd. Reich at its infancy as Czechoslovakia? 
 Destroying it in 1939 as Poland! Seriously, this game is too fun, WAY too fun to play, and it's 
 easily moddable too! Want a birdie in you Polish flag? Insert it, and play along normally! Want 
 that event to pop up on 2 PM instead of 4 AM? Done! Events just make this game. Letting you proceed 
 through history historically of a-historically.
  
  Graphics: I'd say 6.3, but 6 is close enough.
  
  This isn't CiV4, you don't buy this game for 
 its looks. It's not too good looking, but it does the job very well. The icons can bore you easily, 
 but there are dozens of mods out there that have VERY nice icons for your units.
  
  Sound: 9
  The music gives the game this score, there are several sound effects, but they'll probably 
 get old quickly.
  
  Value: 10
  I bought mine for 11 Dollars, ELEVEN! Cheap for me, but may be more expensive in other places.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 1,000,000
  
  This game has taken about 8 times as much of my time as The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. My favorite 
 game, ever.
  Word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy playing the game. There's SO much to enjoy, but it gets cumbersome as heck to do battle. 
 All those little provinces, the micromanaging of resources, and every little fight for every little 
 square inch on the map gets, quite frankly, to be a pain in the neck.
  
  The soundtrack is gorgeous. Kudos to 'em for such a brilliant masterpiece of music. The learning 
 curve is very steep, the detail a bit TOO much for my taste, and a lack of graphical variety causes 
 me to lose interest a bit. On the whole, it is a surpassingly superior WW2 grand strategy game, 
 but they overdo it a bit with the micromanaged aspects of the game. You're never meant to take 
 over the entire world in the game, so don't try it. Just do what you can do, and the game won't 
 crash.
  
  Slightly unstable, overly prolific, but fun in its own right. That's what I have to say about this 
 game. Slightly schizophrenic, yes, but there it is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris20061
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron II: Doomsday is one of the best games I have ever played. I bought this game over 
 a year ago and I am still playing it. The graphics of the game aren't the best, but the gameplay 
 makes up for that. The music of the game is great. The gameplay is where the game starts getting 
 addictive. In the game you can rule any country and play it following history, or even change history. 
 Even though some review sites have given this game low ratings, don't listen to them, because their 
 wrong with their reviews. The game is hard at first and takes a while to fully understand, but 
 once you get the hang of it, the game will get interesting. Also this game cost very little now 
 and can be found at places like EB Games for only $19.99. This is definitely a game I would recommend 
 to someone who's looking for a low costing great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hukamastokea
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron II: Doomsday is a step up from the first Hearts of Iron but not a big enough step. 
 What I mean is Doomsday game play is very similar to the past games with a few extra stuff thrown 
 in.
  
  If you are new to the game you may want start by playing as one of the minor countries far away 
 from Germany and Japan for about 3-4 hours just so you can get the basic idea on how to play the 
 game. I am a long veteran of past Hearts of Iron and many other Paradox games and for me it was 
 very hard.
  
  The tutorial is not much better. It leaves out some key aspects in the game that very important 
 and only scrapes the surface of the game while taking what seems like forever to do so.
  
  The graphics are nothing special and the music seems out of place. But considering that you can 
 buy the game for only $19.99 if you have you money just laying you might as well buy it.
  
  Over all the game is very O. K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreessen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron 2: Doomsday is an amazing Grand Strategy World War 2 wargame. If you've been searching 
 for a great grand strategy game for the WW2 time period, this is your game. The added elements 
 of the Postwar period and Intelligence in this game adds a final piece to a great game and makes 
 for an immensely rewarding experience. The replayability is almost unheard of among modern 40 hour 
 titles released today, and I can't could the number of hours I've spent conquering or liberating 
 the world from the masses in this game. The enjoyment of seeing your Nationalist Chinese finish 
 their conquest of Eurasia in Madrid, or your Nazis finish off the Allies in North America is wonderful. 
 Germany, France, Poland, England, America, Japan, Soviet Union, Nationalist China, Italy, play 
 them all and see how much of the World you can conquer, liberate, or whatever other goal you set 
 for yourself, as this game is open ended. You decide your goals, and you accomplish them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of my favorite world war 2 games, you basically take control of a nation, 
 be is Germany or Ireland, which is a great thing about this game you can be any nation that was 
 around during world war 2. And then you wage war or build up your nation and start your own world 
 war so to say. The game itself offers a lot, a vast tech tree, the combat in the game is basically 
 just telling your guys to take and they do the fighting, but it isn't just as simple as that, weather/direction/units 
 you are attacking with all come in to factor, and the ability to add commanders to your units further 
 enhances this game. The game itself isn't a graphical game but it doesn't need that, its extremely 
 in depth and is a great and fun long lasting game, if you are a fan of nation building sims/world 
 war 2 sims this game is made for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  World War II is one of history's most interesting conflicts, if not the most interesting. There 
 was a bit of everything that makes a great story: treachery, heroism, heartache, excitement, adventure, 
 and victory. The good guys won and went home happy, while the bad guys stayed behind and tried 
 to pick up the pieces. Of course, where World War II ends, the Cold War begins, and that conflict 
 also has a fair bit of treachery and heroism. While not nearly as pronounced as the Second World 
 War, the Cold War was still an important historical event that played an important role in shaping 
 many of the countries of the world.
  
  So it is with enthusiasm that Paradox Interactive released their standalone expansion pack to Hearts 
 of Iron 2, titled Hearts of Iron 2: Doomsday. Doomsday takes everything that made Hearts of Iron 
 2 a great game, adds some new mechanics and content, as well as seven more years of gameplay, and 
 launches you into a fight for your country's survival against some fierce Cold War opponents. Of 
 course, this fight isn't for simpletons or those who give up easily, or who'd rather twitch their 
 way through a fight instead of think it out over a period of years. You've got to have patience, 
 desire, and a bit of luck to make your way through a title as large as Doomsday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  This is a wargame, but it isn't fun at all. There's this huge map of the world, and it's basically 
 like a real time turn based strategy game. You start with a country, like the US or Soviet Union, 
 and then try to take over key countries to score points. If you have the most points at the end 
 of the game, you win.
  
  The problem of the game is that it is ridiculously hard to learn. The tutorials do a mediocre job 
 of explaining the core basics, but there is way too much information that you have to learn on 
 your own when playing a campaign.
  
  The game is very complex. There is IC, or industrial capacity that you have to obtain, and you 
 obtain it through factories you build in your territories. And with this IC, you assign it to different 
 sliders - production, supplies, reinforcing troops, quelling resistance in your country, economy 
 - but it's just too much to micromanage.
  
  And there are constantly battles being fought all over the map - you can slow the game down, but 
 even when it's slow there are like at least a thousand territories and battles are going on everywhere 
 - you just feel like you have very little control of what goes on.
  
  The music is okay, but it really does get repetitive.
  
  This game is really bad. So if you're 
 an average gamer, stay away; if you like turn based strategy, stay away too, unless you've played 
 a previous Hearts of Iron and liked it. Otherwise, just go play Civilization IV or some other turn 
 based game; those games are much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trentgt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is the wargame to end all wargames! Its customizability and replay value are so high 
 I keep going back month after month. Tons of custom mods and graphics clean this baby up real pretty 
 so check them out at www. heartsofiron2. com. Its the mods that other players have developed that 
 lets you see how rich the community of HOI2 has grown since the games release over a year ago.
 
  
  Doomsday adds cool traits to leaders, intelligence type actions and several other enhancements 
 to the gameplay.
  
  Downside is the graphics resolution of the game should be higher, and the ai could do a better 
 job of changing though the years as they modernize - but these things are minimal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dranne
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  This game is for those that like strategy games very much. When i bought doomsday i sat with it 
 for weeks. I cant stop playing it. I think i like the game for its lenght, because you can play 
 the game for many hours in a row. You can choose between many countries. The game has so much to 
 give so why not give yourself to the game. First when i played i took the country sweden. Just 
 a little country on the map. But i have played the game so much so iam very good at it and a manage 
 in 4 years in the game to compete against germany. I manage to make sweden to a superpower nation. 
 i attacked russia, germany, italy with the little country sweden. So nothing is impossible in the 
 game, use your imagination, and then you will suceed in the as i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron 2 Doomsday is a highly innovative and immersive global strategy game that will make 
 you change your mind about wargaming. It adds more content, new intelligence, and most importantly, 
 6 more years in which to conquer the world! I bet this would turn any history enthusiast into a 
 closet wargamer. I aced all ww2 tests because of this game!
  
  I have conquered the world in so many ways, as so many nations, And I have played through all the 
 scenarios, and I love the history. This game makes ANY "what if" idea from the era possible. Communist 
 nazis? no problem Facist US? you got it. Swiss world conquest? well that, my friends, takes skill.
 
  
  The graphics are 2d. Get over it, reviewers. Everything else is great, and I really don't think 
 pretty graphics are necessary in this type of game.
  
  This game is timeless!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khalid_power
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is really amazing. It covers all the issues of the time. Excellent strategy game. It 
 is highly addictive and suitable for all ages. If you love strategy and building games thats the 
 one for you. You are place in the time of the Second World War to chose a country and win the game 
 without losing your home country. The following list you will find in the game. They are like real 
 life they dont fluctuate like a game. The countries relations are strong and loyal. My advice 
 get this game as fast as you can from any nearby store.
  Diplomacy
  Economically
  Military
  Strategy
  Intelligence
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwailo2470
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This expansion to Hearts of Iron 2 brings you the original game with several new features. 
  
  The main feature is the ability to play the game until the end of 1953, giving you up to 18 
 years of game time to plan your world conquest. 
  
  My personal favorite is the addition of automated production sliders, relieving you of perhaps 
 the most annoying chore of the original game. This allows you to not only prioritize building, 
 reinforcements and/or upgrades, but also allows for automated trading. 
  
  Other changes include escort fighters being brigade attachments to bomber groups (instead of stand 
 alone units) , a new naval class of light aircraft carrier (provides additional air defense, but 
 without a CAG) , new traits for your commanders (including a history to allow you to keep track 
 of battles won and lost) , and several other minor additions.
  
  The technology tree gives you the expected advancements of the cold war era, especially jet planes, 
 but every tree has some additions to give you some added toys to play with in the post WW2 years. 
 
  
  The other main addition is the intelligence field. This allows you to send spies to other countries 
 (not your allies) and gather intelligence on their forces and technology, as well as allowing you 
 to perform certain actions to hurt their production, steal technology, raise internal dissent, 
 or even assassinate ministers. Spying can have a penalty on your relationship with other countries. 
 The big difference in game play is that you only have access to the exact number of units that 
 your allies possess. You no longer get to have an instant and accurate update on how your whittling 
 down of enemy air or naval forces is progressing, which makes for more realistic game play. 
  
  Graphics and sound are just like the original, so nothing spectacular, but perfectly good for 
 this type of game. Game is stable on my system, although the game does experience some slowdowns 
 when the action gets fast and furious.
  
  To people who played the original, this is a great value at 20 bucks, and well worth getting for 
 the additions. You get to play the original game with several years tacked on. 
  
  To newcomers, be warned that this game has a pretty steep learning curve. You need to be able to 
 balance production, research and combat in order to succeed, and the less glamorous aspects of 
 war such as logistics are more important than actual combat. But if you enjoy strategy games, stick 
 with this, once you get the hang of it, better put a clock next to your computer, cause the hours 
 will fly by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8sardinr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron II: Doomsday picks up right where Hearts of Iron II left off. It extends the original 
 games campaign to 1960, allowing the gamer to relive the cold war era. With this comes new units, 
 nothing major tho, basically just an extended tech tree. A few new sprites are added in, like the 
 American bombers look like B-17's, Britain's look like lancasters ETC... A major addition that 
 the first game was missing is the new Intel tab. This allows you to send spy's to other countries, 
 where they find out valuable information like troop counts, and what that country is focusing their 
 production on. This also opens up all kinds of options, like Sabotage Production, steal blueprints 
 and all the other things you'd expect. All the while countries are sneaking spies into your country 
 to do the same to you, and the only way to solve that is to deploy some spies to act as a sort 
 of secret police to rout out these perpetrators. With no major changes to graphics, its no Rome 
 Total War, but most old HoI players will be content with the new content.
  
  All in all, as a stand-alone game at $20. Its a must buy for any serious strategy fan.
  
  I 
 give it an easy 9/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
