-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hearts of Iron II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heartsofiron2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible depth and scope.
 Tremendous replay value.
 Much better than its predecessor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very steep learning curve.
 Dated presentation.
 Some noticeable bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,204 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jan 4, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If not for lingering issues with the steep learning curve, the barrage of information boxes, and 
 a couple of bugs, this would undeniably be Paradox's finest hour. 

  If there were a hall of fame for great game concepts, Hearts of Iron would be a first-ballot inductee. 
 But moving the strategic themes and historical depth of the Europa Universalis series to World 
 War II was such a surefire idea that developer Paradox Interactive forgot the actual game. The 
 resulting release was decidedly problematic, with a modern setting shoehorned into a design built 
 for the era of muskets and pantaloons, artificial-intelligence holes the size of the Bismarck, 
 and loads of bugs. However, the new Hearts of Iron II shows that Paradox has learned from its mistakes. 
 Although the game follows its predecessor so closely that you may still want to play with mouse 
 in one hand and textbook in the other, many refinements and additions make the intimidating interface 
 and extraordinary depth almost user-friendly. If not for lingering issues with the steep learning 
 curve, the barrage of information boxes, and a couple of bugs, this would undeniably be Paradox's 
 finest hour.  

          New support options both simplify attacks on enemy provinces and make such offensive operations 
 more realistic.     

  This is still not a game for the faint of heart. You oversee the affairs of an entire nation in 
 the World War II era, with all that such a weighty responsibility entails, in real-time single-player 
 or multiplayer campaigns. So not only do you send tanks streaming across borders, but you also 
 build the economic infrastructure necessary to keep bullets flying and stomachs full, set up trade 
 deals, and send out diplomats to handle a list of assignments from proposing nonaggression pacts 
 to sponsoring coup attempts. As in Paradox's other games of historical grand strategy, time spent 
 waging war on the battlefield pales in comparison with time spent planning and building. If you're 
 looking for the second coming of Axis &amp; Allies, keep looking.  

  Still, concessions to playability make Hearts of Iron II more accessible than the usual Paradox 
 release. The manual is far better than the confusing, useless tome packed with the first Hearts 
 of Iron, and the six tutorials offer up details on primary aspects of play like warfare and production. 
 Only information overload remains a problem. The learning curve is more like a learning cliff. 
 Even after you think you understand the core concepts, you start a game and get snowed under by 
 a blizzard of pop-up information boxes. Mengkukuo has joined Japan in the war on Sinkiang. Canada 
 has barely influenced the foreign policy of the United States. Colombia is remaining neutral in 
 the war between Peru and Ecuador. The Netherlands suggests a trade agreement with us. The United 
 Kingdom announces the death of its foreign minister. And so on. And so on. And so on.  

  It's incredibly overwhelming. Even after you get used to it -- yet again, because Paradox has used 
 a variation of this clunky interface in all of its historical strategy games -- you can't help but 
 grumble that there has to be a better way to keep players in the know. Although you can adjust 
 the number and type of these notices, there isn't a happy medium. Whether you choose to wade through 
 everything or turn off a number of categories, you will almost certainly miss a dire announcement 
 or two. Tweaking the message frequency so you reach some level of satisfaction with the alerts 
 shown is almost a game in itself. Three or four scenarios must be played to completion before you'll 
 be able to get an idea of what works for you.  

  You can at least focus your warmongering now. While Hearts of Iron II centers on four sprawling 
 campaigns, you can select a limited conflict with set adversaries if you're not in the mood to 
 set the entire world ablaze between 1936 and 1947. Some of these battles are standard WWII fare, 
 like the D-Day landing and Operation Barbarossa, but others are off the beaten path. You can even 
 take part in the fictional Platinean War between German puppet Argentina and American puppet Brazil, 
 for instance, or in a full-scale "what if" German invasion of Czechoslovakia.  

          Production is pretty intimidating at first, but most operations can be handled from this 
 single menu screen.     

  These smaller scenarios also serve as extended tutorials. Many feature two-sided hostilities, and 
 most involve accomplishing a single objective. Sometimes you can even ignore whole aspects of the 
 game. When you're fighting the Platinean War, for example, supplies are regularly delivered from 
 the US and Germany, so you don't have to worry about gathering the resources needed to build armies. 
 The only catch is that it's difficult to step up from these scenarios to the full-fledged campaigns, 
 as there isn't a middle ground. You're forced to go from regional engagements straight to governing 
 a nation taking part in the biggest conflict in human history.     

  Thankfully, it's never been so simple to wage global war. Ground combat is considerably easier 
 to manage, thanks to the addition of support options allowing neighboring units to aid an attack 
 without taking part in it. This way you don't have to throw all your troops into harm's way and 
 can maintain an orderly front line. Units can also be ordered to stand in reserve, ready to step 
 in and replenish the strength of adjacent allies. And ships and planes can be given mission orders 
 now. This allows you to automatically try to gain air superiority over a designated region, to 
 bomb an enemy's industrial infrastructure, or to clear an area of enemy naval traffic.  

          New limited scenarios let you cut your teeth on smaller conflicts, like the early-1940s 
 war between Allied puppet Brazil and Axis puppet Argentina.     

  Other aspects have been simplified as well. Instead of painstakingly researching advanced technologies 
 piece by piece, you now select a team of engineers or an individual visionary and assign a task 
 like developing a tank or coming up with a new plan for regimental combat teams. These teams and 
 personages are historically accurate, too, so the Germans can call on the Krupp factories for armaments 
 research and the Americans can ask General Dwight Eisenhower to work on land tactics for troop 
 deployment. Production is also virtually free of the original game's micromanagement headaches. 
 Slider bars control the entire production network, so you can easily ensure that you have enough 
 material assigned to consumer goods, production, supplies, reinforcements, and upgrades.  

  Each of these changes makes Hearts of Iron II more modern than its predecessor, which preserved 
 too much of the Europa Universalis II engine. You feel like you're commanding a modern, mechanized 
 force that can operate on the land, on the sea, and in the air, along with the industrialized economy 
 that powers it. It's far easier to appreciate the vast scope of play, as you're not as bogged down 
 in minutiae. You can now see the incredible range of options that the design affords, and get wrapped 
 up in marathon sessions, each one wildly different from the last, even if you're playing as the 
 same nation. Even Germany, for example, has dozens of approaches open to it. In successive games 
 starting in 1936, we tried the passive diplomatic route, rapidly and aggressively built a military 
 juggernaut, and saved our pennies to sponsor coups in Poland and Czechoslovakia, all with varying 
 degrees of success.  

  The only issue we noted was a tendency for the artificial intelligence to play it safe on the lower 
 and medium difficulty settings. Major military buildups, aggressive positioning of armies on borders, 
 and even some outright invasions were often met with a shrug. Nations also didn't produce enough 
 military units. France, for example, was usually woefully unprepared for a German assault, even 
 if the Nazis had triggered a "preparation for war" event by sending troops into the Rhineland in 
 violation of the Treaty of Versailles. Also, we encountered a few quasi-historical developments 
 that practically seemed hard-coded. Most were of the expected "that's almost the way it really 
 happened" sort, like the above situation with the French. But others were decidedly odd. China, 
 for instance, recovered from its devastating civil war almost immediately in every game that we 
 played, and rapidly became a powerhouse that steamrolled Japan.  

  It's too bad that the new design philosophies weren't applied to the graphics and sound. This engine 
 is as old as the hills in computer-game years, and looks it. Units are poorly animated, and the 
 map features the same colored nation blobs as seen in Europa Universalis in 2001. Also, you can't 
 scale the screen resolution. The game plays at a fixed 1024x768, which is disappointing, since 
 the first Hearts of Iron supported multiple resolutions. This technical limitation will annoy anyone 
 with an LCD monitor that has a different native resolution, as interpolation turns text into clunky, 
 Lego-like blocks. The audio will annoy anyone with ears. The martial music gets grating after five 
 minutes, and there are virtually no sound effects other than the stomp of armies on the march. 

  And what would a Paradox game be without release bugs? There are serious flaws here, including 
 occasional drops to the desktop and an irritating intermittent-screen-flickering issue that defied 
 all our attempts to solve it. Also, Valkyrienet support for online multiplayer seemed to be missing 
 in action, as we were never able to log on and find an active channel for the game. This is still 
 a much more stable product than its predecessor, but that isn't really saying much.  

          Useful tutorials are a nice change of pace from what Paradox typically provides.     

 
  Even with these problems, Hearts of Iron II fulfills the promise of its predecessor. Paradox has 
 done a tremendous job of making this complex design relatively easy to get into. If you can stumble 
 through the first couple of hours, the blanks will fill in and you'll find yourself in an all-night 
 struggle to take the Wehrmacht to Moscow, or to conquer the last few holdout provinces in China 
 with the Japanese Imperial Army, or even to tiptoe around the combatants and keep Spain neutral. 
 This is what the original game should have been.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (32 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GamerEnthusiast
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:05 am PT
Review:  I made an error, I mentioned Von Beck, but the name is different. I am waiting for Hearts of iron 
 3 to release. I am a great admirer of Admiral Raeder, and he was forced to resign by Hitler because 
 Hitler lost his faith in Raeder's vision for the Kriegsmarine. Similarly, the head of the army, 
 Von Fritsch, was also removed, because Hitler perhaps, too, wanted to lead the army. One has the 
 capability to retain these military leaders, in the game, and I do so. I have never had the initiative 
 to make a decisive attack on either the Western Front, or the Eastern front, because in reality, 
 one person, which is the player, is controlling the whole scenario. This is the challenge, which 
 makes me return to the game, so that I can do what perhaps, Hitler could not. The technology section 
 is very interesting, where one gets to research technology, pertaining to military needs. I try 
 different combinations every time I play the game, to research different technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric1000
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 30, 2009 12:17 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that was and is crying out to be turn based. The decision to make it 
 real-time turns what could be one of the best war games ever into a logistic nightmare, especially 
 when you start doing well with forces spread out across the globe, when playing at the normal speed 
 is almost impossible. 
  
  The answer to this of course is to slow down the passage of time to slow or very slow, but at this 
 level you may as well pause the game, hand out the orders, start time and then go and do something 
 else for a few hours. It really is that slow.
  
  In what seems to be a strange paradox ( if you will excuse the pun) a turn based system would actually 
 speed the game up. Paradox would point out here that you can pause the game at any time to issue 
 orders, which is fair enough, but that being the case why make it real-time in the first place.
 
  
  The main downfall of these games apart from the real-time / turn-based argument is the steep learning 
 curve, although I must admit that HoI2 is nowhere near as bad as the Europa Univeralis games in 
 this respect and after about 30 minutes I understood most of what the game was about and got on 
 with playing it. There are some issues with the odd crash but these were few and far between and 
 not really a problem, just set the game to autosave each month. One major issue however is when 
 two very evenly matched forces come up against each other, I had a navy battle start on the 23rd 
 october and only end on the 18th december, you would think that by that time they would just have 
 got pissed off with fighting or run out of ammo and gone home for christmas.
  
  If you have the patience of your average rock and don't need the PC for anything else for a few 
 weeks then this is the game for you. If however you have a life and are looking for a game to grab 
 you by the balls then look elsewhere because this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricScionti
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to Strategy games there are a seemingly infinite amount of titles out there on the 
 market today, many of them however feel like they have been done before, they feel like the same 
 base building, resource gathering, steam rolling that was predominant in such classic titles as 
 Starcraft or Red Alert. Few titles seem to rarely break the trend. (Company of Heroes, and World 
 in Conflict are few that do so.)
  
  Let's get down to business, Hearts of Iron 2 a different kind of strategy game, one with a very 
 steep learning curve (the biggest I have ever seen) . The game itself is little more than a map 
 with icon strewn about it, much like risk in that there is really nothing flashy about it when 
 combat takes places about as close as you get to actually hearing combat is when you select engaged 
 units, and you are able to hear sounds of gunfire and bombs falling, which can be a problem for 
 some. 
  
  However flashy graphics is not where this game shines, but rather the fact that it is a very very 
 detailed and open game. You can play as whatever country you choose, from Nazi Germany to The United 
 States, to Brazil or Australia. Also it should be mentioned that you cannot tell just by looking 
 at screen shots, but the game is far more complicated than simply moving from territory to territory 
 watching them change color (Think about Superpower 2, which had this flaw) . For instance, there 
 are multiple tabs which you can switch between to see the terrain features of territories, which 
 vary from forest, to fields, to hills to deserts. Another to see the weather, which effects air 
 unit performance. 
  
  There are also large amounts of modifiers which come into play in each battle, such as supply lines, 
 attrition, commanding officer experience and expertise, as well as time of day and organization. 
 Most notably is the over stacking penalty, which without appropriate leadership and HQ support, 
 reduces units combat organization by 75%, which leaves them a bumbling cluster f*ck. (Prevents 
 steam rolling) . 
  
  I haven't even touched on such other components as the research table, doctrine abilities and the 
 political tab, as well as other enveloping elements of this game which make it easy to squeeze 
 out of 100 hours of game play, there is also the ability to play online campaigns with friends 
 of yours as well, which makes this game one of my all time favorites. People interested in Grand 
 Strategy games should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Proudmoore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  For those who are fans of either Axis & Allies, Aggression: Reign over Europe or Making History, 
 you will probably enjoy this game. 
  
  Pros:
  1.) Allows you to play a significant portion of history leading up to WWII as well as the actual 
 period of WWII.
  2.) Allows you to play any country you want.
  3.) Huge technology tree.
  4.) Intense information on every country.
  5.) Allows you to have fairly complex control over 
 your government cabinet.
  6. As deep and complex a table top strategy game you can find.
  
  Cons:
  1.) HUGE learning curve. Manual has limited use.
  2.) Combat can be fairly hard 
 to understand even with tutorials.
  3.) Some countries are pointless no matter what you do i. e. Madagascar.
  4.) Some countries will 
 be over run no matter what you do i. e. Poland.
  5.) Short choice in music and graphics are basic.
  6.) Game WILL slow down even on a fast computer 
 towards the middle/end of the war.
  
  
  HoI 2 allows you to take any country you desire and play it from 1936 til 1947. You can participate 
 in WWII if you want to though its not required. Managing your country once your able to figure 
 out just how to do it can be fairly rewarding. Waging war, though complicated, can still be fun. 
 Trading is basic and you only have a few resources to use. Technology research is essential or 
 you can write your country off as worthless if you plan on fighting. Diplomacy is mediocre and 
 almost useless because some countries no matter what will always hate you. 
  All in all, plays much like a table top version of Chariots of War. Fun if your into intense strategy 
 games but not for the faint of heart. Plan on spending at least 10 hours or more on a single campaign.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukedeutsch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Its depth, its magnitude, all of it makes this game worthy of playing over and 
 over again. 
  You can literally play this game a hundred times and not experience the same outcome twice. For 
 instance, you can play as Poland and take it from the Germans and Russians, or you can annex your 
 lesser neighbors early on, form alliances, and lay waste to Germany or seriously wound the Russians. 
 And also, not to joke, you can literally play as any nation you want to. (Assuming the nation you 
 want to play as existed prior or during 1936-1950 something) 
  The depth of this game simply captivated this reviewer, however, this game is definitely NOT without 
 downfalls. For one, the difficulty curve for this game is not for the average FPS player, it requires 
 deep thinking, understanding of unit's capabilities and of course, understanding of logistics. 
 For another, the sound in this game is simply non-existent, and the graphics are less than sub-par. 
 But replayability, depth, and the simple fun of the whole thing makes this game worth every second 
 you play it.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loser003
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many games that play out in the grand scope of WWII. Simply put, this game is simply 
 fun unless you're a jittery, mouth foaming shooter fan who needs to see action and things dying. 
 Otherwise, this game is simply amazing. You can play almost any country (though admittedly the 
 smaller countries have little to do, leaving you bored to tears) , and act as you see fit. You can 
 build up an army, research technologies by employing companies like Ford to develop your next tank, 
 and join various alliances. Its a complex game that forces you to weigh your decisions carefully. 
 It takes a while to learn how the combat engine works as well. Since you can't command the troops, 
 but only order them to attack a province, you can only give them the greatest advantage possible. 
 This means, you can arm your troops with the best generals, attack during the day, make sure they're 
 well supplied, etc.
  
  This game is certainly one of the best if you have the patience for these types of games. The graphics 
 are sub par, and combat is mere sounds of gunfire but if you enjoy managing a country, and waging 
 the entire WWII on an hourly clock, then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snaggleoooo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  I brought this game at EB on a whim for AU$25. For that price, I wasn't expecting much, but this 
 game blew me away. HoI II follows the entire course of World War II, from 1936 - 1947. You can 
 chose pretty much any country in the world to play, build an economy, an army and then conquer 
 the world. Of course, you're not going to conquer the world as a tiny country, but you can greatly 
 contribute to the war effort of the Alliance you're supporting, either the Allies (US, Britain, 
 France) , the Comniterm (Russia) or the Axis (Nazi Germany, Italy, Japan) .
  
  Your economy is based on factories in your provinces, with take a certain amount of resources. 
 This is your IC. IC is used to create supplies, upgrade your army, reinforce your armies and create 
 troops. The troops you can make are based on your technology level, but they range from the lowly 
 militia infantry to marines to Spitfire planes to battleships and aircraft carriers to the almighty 
 tank - the Panzer IV, Sherman and T-34 can all be build given your tech level. You cantrol these 
 on a strategic map where you control your armed forces and lauch attacks using easy keyboard and 
 mouse control. Just right-click the province you want to attack and select when to do it and they 
 will attack. Battles are simulated, but may take many days for the outcome to be decided. Time 
 moves at about an hour a second, but it can be sped up and slowed down depending on the situation.
 
  
  The game is impressive in its depth, but don't expect to actually see your Panzer division blasting 
 its way through Poland or France. It is a grand strategic game, not an RTS. The learning curve 
 of the game is hard to overcome. It really throws you into the deep end without much to a tutorial, 
 but if you can get over it, the enjoyment from the game can be huge.
  
  If you've ever wanted to lead your nation through the highs, lows, terror and triumph of the Second 
 World War, buy Hearts of Iron II, just be prepared to lose track of time playing - it's Civ-like 
 in its addictiveness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega-333
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  HoI2 does what most other Paradox titles fail at- creating a truly 3 dimensional game you can relate 
 to. From the economics to units to historical events, the game ranks solidly in all categories.
 
  
  Good: Great RTS strategy game. Basic command of logistics is needed in the game. The new attack 
 commands are not only helpful but play into the heart of combat.
  
  Bad: No small-unit tactics will be a turn-off for those who love to micro. The AI still isn't advanced 
 enough. Aircraft are almost pointless. Naval warfare doesn't accurately simulate the war. Any structural 
 damage done to a country can be repaired relatively quickly, even if atomic bomb is used.
  
  HoI2 still leaves a lot to be desired, and such things really limit what you can do. You find 
 if you play a country multiple times you get almost exactly the same outcome, maybe the time table 
 thrown off a week or two. But the game is a solid RTS, great overall strategy game, and the best 
 so far from Paradox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeterna789
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  When I was first introduced this game, or rather, came across it, I always thought that it would 
 be just another WW2 game with tanks and soldiers fighting. I, however, still bought the game and 
 found it to be surprisingly addictive and interesting. The game is real time strategy though it 
 looks like a turn-base in the screenshots. Heart's of Iron 2 offers a lot of different factions 
 and you have the whole world as your battle ground, you not only control the military but the economy 
 and diplomacy as well. The details of the game and the amount of research that has been placed 
 to it is very impressive, and, most of the time, it is historically accurate. But still, no thing 
 is perfect and it does have it's flaws, one of which is that the game ends to abruptly, another 
 is the AI's inability to follow historicaly triggered events and the tutorial is not really a help, 
 take's some to to getting used to.
  
  In all, however, Heart's of Iron 2 gives you a great gameplay and will keep you occupied for hours, 
 it is extremely addictive. The Faction's are well balanced and the game overall is great! Play 
 as the defenders of Democracy and form the Allied Nations, or let nations tremble before the Axis 
 war machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igotit8675309
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for two reasons, one, was the hearts of iron custom map on starcraft, which used 
 to be awsome, and two, my love for history. This game combines action, and history, and sets it 
 into a theater that many are familiar, world war two. But this is a simulation game, not a shooter. 
 this is a perfect game for people who like me, like history, the game spans from 1936, to 1947, 
 and you can take control of all the nations back then ( i choose canada usually) , although im not 
 good at this game really, i still enjoy it alout, the historical details, and all the techs just 
 amaze me, as well as all the different thing that effect combat, such as experience of the division/brigade, 
 night time, winter, leadership, seashore bombardment, urban areas, and many other things. if you 
 have patience, i would reccomend this game, if you dont, got play call of duty or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia-Necross
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I just came upon this game one day and decided to buy it. At first I thought it was bad. But thats 
 just the learning curve. Once you get past it this game is really fun. Because I know a lot about 
 WW2 I can really enjoy this game and the sheer customization you are allowed to have. There a lot 
 of scenarios and you can make anything happen really. The only downsides are the bugs which get 
 very annoying sometimes. But with the patches theyre really not a big problem. The gameplay in 
 this game is really top class. There really isnt much to say. Are you angry that Nazi Germany 
 didnt win the war? Well you can make it happen. It wont be easy with the great AI but its possible. 
 You can get right into Operation Barbarossa and help the Third Reich defeat the soviet against 
 large odds and limited industrial output while leading a strong fight against Britain or you can 
 be the Soviets fending off a attack from the Germans with inferior troops and outdated tanks. The 
 bottom line is anything is possible. But depending on which nation you pick and which year you 
 select will determine how easy war can be for you and how much conquest youll be doing. Both Germany 
 and Russia can conquer large amounts of land. While as Italy youll struggle to keep Libya and 
 can barely even take Switzerland if you wish doing so (which was neutral in WW2 but you can declare 
 war on them) . On that same note, playing as Poland will be a struggle because of there limited 
 industry and large super power trying to constantly annex you. Again there thousands of scenarios 
 and if you wish you could even have a demo crated Soviet Union or a Leninist Great Britain. The 
 Multiplayer is solid and there little to complain here.
  
  The graphics arent that good but they have a board game like appearance which is good. The units 
 are well represented and the smooth and great presentation of this game is good. As a fan of WW2 
 I had little to complain as the did well representing the different mode. The sound is below par 
 for the most part. The soundtrack is small selection of mediocre music. That said I couldnt care 
 less about the sound of this game. The gameplay is what cants and with a genre like this they got 
 the most important part down right. Which at the end of the day is what counts.
  
  The value is endless really. Theyre various dates for you to change the outcome for history for. 
 Then theres a good selection of scenarios which stay true to their real world events. All this 
 and the multiplayer combine to form a game which you will be playing endlessly if you like it. 
 Overall the value is superb. This game is great and if youre a Risk fan or WW2 fan you owe it 
 to yourself to buy this game. But if your a Risk fan and dont like war then its a rental. People 
 that will get the most out of this game are the people who know a good amount of history to understand 
 the events and political situation in which they are changing. Theres so much to change and do 
 in this game that its right up there with Civilization as one of the best turn based games to date. 
 The difference being this game is not turn based. So if youre a history buff get this game if 
 not see and then buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franco_atirador
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Yet another classic .... is reworked ... and boy you can tell it was well done!
  Although i have to say its a hard game to learn and master ... but in the end after a few bops on 
 the head you get the click of it.
  Its an interesting game with a lot of possibilities and resource managements , political decisions 
 ... make this game a good cocktail giving the player the impression of what is like being a powerfull 
 leader with dicisions that could affect the whole game. Interesting mixe between gameplay fun and 
 historical accuracy , balancing the game really well and giving it a more immersive action.
  Only drawbacks are the dificulty of the game and some lack of more dynamic and daring gameplay.
 
  Good game, make sure you try it if your into the RTS , WW2 games or just wantto have some good 
 clean fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  Fantastic gameplay. A solid blend of strategy with action. Near perfect interface and game play 
 balance. (There is much to do with Europa Universalis engine here) 
  
  There is lots of good stuff for this game; 
  +Tech research is definitely well improved over 
 the previous one, it adds more value than any other aspect of this game.
  +Combats are more PG style, (encirclement, breakthru, etc. factors & Leaders)
  +Diplomatic relations 
 and superb historical accurancy let you drive your way.
  +Goverment dudes are adjustable which effects nation performance greately.
  +Amazing replayability 
 & modability value.
  +Living and breathing world around you.
  
  And there is plenthy bad stuff also;
  -Air forces organization is somehow tiring to keep up with. 
 Arranging them together and giving missions continously is wearisome.
  -Diplomatic relations are a bit buggy. Agreeing alliances are more than impossible.
  -The major 
 nations are non-annexable making USSR undefeatable. (Means capturing Moscow as Germans gives you 
 nothing)
  -Naval combats are happening very quickly unlike the real ones. Also Submarines are nearly useless 
 because of their unrealistically low morale.
  
  Anyhow, there are lots of sites that offer lots of stuff like, improved icon graphics, more realistic 
 stats, sound effects and scenarios. Also newly released patches fixed lots of bugs already. It 
 is a strong candidate to be a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  HoI2 is a game that offers much more than other games of its genere. For first looks in the screenshots 
 it may look old , but until you play it , you didnt see anything. It almost covers all aspects 
 of WWII like Naval ships , Marine infantry , Tanks , Industries , planes and etc. It also get much 
 depth to the the whole story. The game has a system to get new units. You make a company of your 
 country work to research new technologies , and if you unlock some new ones you will have acsess 
 to new and better units. And the there are lots of types from the Artillery used in WWI to Semi-Modern 
 Arrtillery.
  I played alot with the Germans and I know a lot about them and that I noticed is that you can unlock 
 ceartain units that didn't participate in the War but only where prototypes like the H-Class battleship 
 or the Panzer VIII 'Maus' or the Type XXIII U-Boat , so its pretty cool. It really offers endless 
 content to all major nations.
  The main campaign starting from 1937 offers you much time almost 40 hours to complete it , unless 
 you get beaten too soon.
  Also , it has almost all the Nations that WWII had in real life , many that only have 2-7 cities 
 that can be easily crushed to the massive ones for example the UK that covers all parts fo the 
 world.
  Although it got a lot of content to play with , it wont let you use it as you wish , if you play 
 with the Germans you cant do stuff that the germans didnt do for example teaming up with the USA 
 to crush the world and stuff like that but you have to walk with the number of events that pop 
 out from month to another like invading Poland.
  But , the game would be good only if the game had more visuals like different visuals for different 
 tanks and different visuals for different ships etc , and the sound is the same , they arent that 
 much good exept for the music that is pretty good. Bugs are pretty rare in the game , I only noticed 
 1 or 2 in the whole time I played , so over all , its a buge board game like game that offers tons 
 of content and worth the buy for WWII fans or who wants to spend his weakends doing something.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaltyMcSushi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron II is an incredibly complicated game. It isn't so much a WWII Strategy game as it 
 is a Simulator. The game revolves around your Industrial Capacity, which is your country's ability 
 to manufacture things like units, supplies, or consumer goods using your factories. Industrial 
 Capacity cannot be traded or bargained; it is governed by the amount of factories in your nation 
 has. You must choose how you use your Industrial Capacity using a series of sliders. You can make 
 Consumer Goods, which are basic goods for your people, Production, which is for creating units, 
 Supplies, which is needed to supply your units with their needs, Rienforcements, which is needed 
 to replace killed soldiers in your divisions, and Upgrades, which is used to upgrade obsolete units 
 to more advanced ones.
  
  Building units doesn't require you to spend resources like many other games. Building units uses 
 up your Production, determined by the Industrial Capacity sliders, and also takes away from your 
 Manpower, which is the amount of men who you can recruit for war determined by your population. 
 HoI2's units aren't single soldiers, or squads of soldiers. The game deals with ground units in 
 Divisions, air units with Squadrons, and sea units with single ships. Units' states are not shown 
 as their health, but their strength out of 100% and their morale. Units also require supplies, 
 and if they are low on supplies, then they will be less effective. Supplying units requires that 
 the territory they are in is in the supply line. If they are isolated from the supply line, then 
 attacking with those units would be scuicide, since units can't fight without their ammunition.
 
  
  Battles are not as complicated as other aspects of the game. Battle outcomes are decided by various 
 attributes, such as morale and the amount of supplies, but as mentioned before, units are controlled 
 in large groups. So, instead of telling A squad to go here, you tell the units in X territory to 
 attack Y territory. Thats it. Units in territories ajecent to the defending territory can support 
 the attack, which is helping your attacking units in battle but when you capture the territory, 
 they don't have to move into the captured territory like most units. Air units can do all sorts 
 of things, depending on their type- fighters can patrol over territories, and you can assign bombers 
 to attack enemy indistrial centers. Naval units can bombard and attack enemy convoys.
  
  And then there's diplomacy and government. There's all sorts of actions you can do with that. Diplomacy 
 and government in HoI2 in this game is the most incredibly complicated part of any game I've ever 
 played in my life. When you initiate di-plomacy, there are 22 different actions you can do, and 
 they are available during certain situations; for example, you cannot propose an alliance when 
 you are already allied. There are 6 sliders that change the policies of your government, which 
 can be influenced by events or other nations. These sliders also determine your type of government. 
 Nations of similar governments will be closer than those with different governments.
  
  Basically, with HoI2, if you want to do something, you probably can.
  
  Hearts of Iron is an 
 amazingly complicated and deep game by itself, but the game also has a lot of single-player modes 
 to play in. First off, you can play as any country- Not just those that participated in WWII, I 
 mean any country in the world, from Nicaragua to Ethiopia to Australia to Cuba to Germany. That 
 is, with the exception with puppet states, but thats a good thing, because puppet states' militaries 
 are controlled by their controllers. I can't say most of them are worth playing since the complicated 
 political system makes it unbelieveably difficult just to declare war, but also that most wouldn't 
 have the industrial capabilities to be able to wage the war. There are a ton of scenarios you can 
 play in as well; the focus is the open-ended scenario where you chose a year, nation, and then 
 you are thrown into a virtual Earth during the WWII era. Descisions are made by you, and there 
 are various events dotting the game. There are also scenarios where the game focuses on a specific 
 battle, such as Operation Barbarossa where Germany invades Russia and the Ardennes Offensive where 
 Germany cut off the 101st Airborne. There's plenty of single-player modes for years of play.
  
  In HoI2, there is nothing different between the single and multi-player games, except that 
 you have a human playing as one of the countries. You still have all the scenarios, all the countries, 
 and all the technologies. However, having another human playing changes the whole game drastically. 
 As an ally, invasions can be easily coordinated and planned, while a cunning human enemy can turn 
 international relations against you. Multiplayer has the same features a single player, except 
 with the added effect of another human being playing. Unfortunately, there aren't many games playing, 
 and those who are are usually passworded. One really awesome thing about HoI2 is that you can play 
 the game- single or multiplayer- without the CD. You can install this game on any of your friends' 
 computers, and considering its low system requirements, it'll probably work. You could set up some 
 great games going with those you know, like some of you do with games like Diplomacy or Risk.
 
  
  HoI2's Graphics... well, let's face it. There isn't any. This game was made board game style, and 
 it shows. There are no three dimesntions. Ever. Everything is two-dimensional. Although tank units 
 are shown as tanks and air units are shown as planes, every nation his its own graphic for each 
 type of unit. So although German and US tanks will be different, you won't tell the difference 
 from different US tanks just by looking at them. For a board game, they are fine. For a video game, 
 they just suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNomble
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of Paradox Interactives Hearts of Iron I. I instantly knew after grabbing the sequal 
 that they made another star. New features and alot of bugs have been fixed in the latest patch 
 and the A. I is really entertaining to play against. Hearts of Iron 2 is a good mix of strategy 
 and mass-tactic combat simulation and have the ability to grab you and never let go. 
  
  With a long learning curve to learn all the basics of land, sea and air combat it later gives countless 
 hours of highly addictive gaming. You can play as all the nations across a long list of diffrent 
 campaigns. The 1936 campaign is the most popular. It gives the player the choices how World War 
 2 really starts out and lasts till 1947. During these 10 years the world will shape in the favor 
 or either the Allies, Axis or Commitern factions.
  
  A real classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christiandk1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has given us a hole new view of a stragtegy gameing and i think its should be thanked 
 for that! thouge the AI is not as wise as you would think and i tried to make a D day landing and 
 of course the computer barely flew a bomber over france so i guess the AI needs some tweaking! 
 Well other than that there are few bugs! other than i find it odd that the germans kept pulling 
 3 tank divions out all the time... I also find it annoying that what ever i do i cant make a nuke 
 bomb... well thats maybe yust me! hah! well the game is as i said in need of some tweaking! example! 
 : I got berlin but it said nothing about that i caputred hitler... couse i guess hitler would be 
 there... anyways! and i bombed berlin and invanded it 8 times and recaputred it 8 times so i guess 
 i cant imagien it still having that lovely picture in the high cornor!... Well... heh! I love the 
 tanks! and the generals are good to have around since i know many of em! GO ZUHKOV! YEAH! ... well 
 anyways! buy it or get killed! :P yust kidding! 
  
  A GAME WORTH OF THE MONEY YOU PAY FOR IT! BUY IT NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markez83
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron 2  uno strategico / manageriale a dir poco incredibile e immancabile nella collezione 
 degli amanti del genere. Gi il primo Hearts of Iron (HOI) mi aveva lasciato sorpreso per la sua 
 complessit! Certo, non si pu dire che per un neofita sia un gioco facile agli inizi, ma oserei 
 dire che  un gioco molto immersivo! 
  L' aspetto manageriale  molto vario, curato e ampio, per cui non aspettatevi di iniziare e finire 
 una partita in una giornata: dagli aspetti economici a quelli politici e diplomatici, dagli alberi 
 delle tecnologie da sviluppare a quelli strettamente militari. Schierandovi con la nazione da voi 
 preferita, (sono otto) non dovrete lasciare niente al caso!! Se non rifornirete una vostra unit, 
 essa morir di fame e freddo (o caldo) , per non parlare del nemico, che cercher sempre e volentieri 
 di accerchiarvi! Dovrete avere alleati e amici per coprirvi le spalle e i fianchi, e perch gestire 
 molti fronti  una cosa complicata e costosa in termini di risorse....
  Rispetto al primo, HOI2 offre delle splendide campagne (cinque) in un arco temporale dal 1936 al 
 1945. Se alla fine delle campagne non vi sarete ancora annoiati, potrete sempre cimentarvi nelle 
 singole operazioni, come la battaglia delle Ardenne, il D-Day, la guerra di Rommel in Africa o 
 le operazioni nel teatro del Pacifico....
  
  Conclusione:
  La vera forza di questo gioco, come molti giochi della Paradox, sta nell' impressionante precisazione 
 degli eventi storici pi che nella grafica o nel sonoro, che sinceramente delude un po', perch 
 rimasto nella forma bi-dimensionale come nel primo episodio. L' aspetto povero di grafica e audio 
 comunque pu essere utile a chi non possiede un pc di ultima generazione, offrendo una certa stabilit 
 e fluidit del gioco. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benyamun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron II is an engrossing and challenging game that requires a lot of time to play, but 
 ultimately provides a deep sense of satisfaction. There is really nothing out there at the moment 
 that gives you that sense of acheivement when you wait for your economy to build up, build up your 
 army, and take over the world. 
  
  The graphics are not great, but they serve their purpose. The sound could be better, not just the 
 same battle sounds and orchestral score. And the game does randomly crash now and then. 
  
  The gameplay truly requires complete and strategic planning on the part of player, economically, 
 militarily, politically, and socially. The technology tree and unit selection is in-depth and extensive, 
 providing choice and requiring careful selection. You will feel bombarded with numbers and figures 
 at the start, and to play the game without the manual is very time consuming... but doable.
  
  If there is one thing I wish this game could improve on, it would be to overcome to numerous 
 clicking and mass micromanagement (especially for countries such as the USA) . Also, the update 
 (not upgrade) the graphics past 1995 and allow of keyboard entry of values to reduce the amount 
 of time dealing with logistical in-game issues, and more on the core of winning those long battles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thundermare-pt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I saw a the review and decided to give the game a shot. Big mistake. Spent the next 12 hours straight 
 playing. It's so compelling.
  
  Being a "fan" of WWII, I was looking forward to this. I always liked Sudden Strike and the such, 
 but it's been a long time since I've seen anything with such a large scope. It really is amazing.
 
  
  Managing production and research in this game seems almost real and it's just so much fun! The 
 military strategy, even though less present, is there and looks as real as the rest of the game. 
 
  
  Ok, so the graphics are outdated. So what? I've always defended gameplay before graphics, and this 
 game does just that. The gameplay is awsome, I couldn't care less about the graphics!
  
  Above all, It's a really good RTS, that's what matters :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraZanta
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron 2 is a difficult but highly addictive real-time strategy game. But this isnt 
 a Age of Empires or Warcraft RTS game, it is more like civilization but without the turns, just 
 fluid time system, like 1 second our time is like 1 hour game time. This game has some minor flaws 
 that could be fixed but other than that this is a crowning achievement of how RTS games should 
 be made.
  The graphics on this game are not anything great but they are useful and serve the purpose of displaying 
 all the information you need to know. But sometimes the game displays to much info and when you 
 try to customize the settings you may end up missing vital info, though this is rare it is still 
 a problem. The map itself is wonderful, with many, dozens if not hundreds, of properties or regions. 
 Each one of these can be controlled and they provide things like industry, minerals and some even 
 have special resources. Controlling not only a lot but strategic regions is usually the key to 
 victory.
  The combat in this game is based off of unit strength, organization and other factors. For example 
 if you have a lot of units but they have very poor origination they could lose to a couple of units 
 with high organization. Also war in this game is not taken lightly, when you declare war not only 
 does the dissent in your country rise but other countries relations with you generally sour and 
 overall it has a bad effect on your economy. This makes you think a lot before sending your troops 
 into battle, as it is costly for both you and your nation. Sometimes the games events can seem 
 sort of scripted, like how Japan is always struggling for resources, but overall it is a fun and 
 exciting game, with hours of replay due to the fact that you can play as different nations and 
 each has a different style of play.
  The sound in this game is okay, nothing special, it suits the needs of the game and keeps your 
 ears from growing board. The sound is used for alerts for messages, a pretty good musical score 
 and the sound of combat which is nothing special. Other than that the sound is virtually non-existent 
 and you are better off turning on your Zen or other mp3 player and listening to your own music.
 
  This game is for the strategy nut and I dont think it will appeal to gamers wanting instant 
 results to their actions, but more to gamers willing to wait and see what long-term impact their 
 strategies will have. If you are one of those gamers than you should get this game, and even if 
 you are not this is still a fine example of why RTS games are so great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightfalling
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  Its a pretty good game that will test your strategic abillities. But it still gets a little boring 
 after playing the same over and over. Thats maybe because i like a game where everything should 
 happend fast and not all this build up but ill say its a good buy. so if you are up for a good 
 long playing game where you can play with hundreds of strategics then this would be a good buy 
 so enjoy it.....!. One more thing is that the AI wont let you control the world without some resistance 
 so buy it to get and pretty good multiplayer game with a lots and lots of options.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreessen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  Assign research teams to develop new technology.
  Build new naval units, air units, infantry, armor, and mechanized divisions. 
  Forge Alliances 
 with nations of similar worldview.
  Assign commanders to Corp and Army level formations.
  Invade neutral nations and conquer the world!
  Alter history itself!
  
  This is by far the 
 best World War 2 strategy game I have ever played, and I have played quite a few of them. The entire 
 war is fought hour by hour from 1 Jan 1936 through 30 Dec 1947. What more do you want in a game? 
 Conquer the world as Germany, forge an unbeatable Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere as Japan, send our 
 your Nationalist Chinese hordes to conquer the world, fight for freedom and democracy as the United 
 States, turn back the Germans in 1940 as France, do whatever your heart desires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_kotten
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 30, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Its very good, even though you mostly see things at a map and commanding your units. Many people 
 just looks at the game pictures at reviews or at the backside of the box and ignores the game. 
 but its something in this game that makes it work, especially if you are a war-monger. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is divided into 2 different approaches, you can rely on diplomacy and your 
 allies and assume control over their troops but who wants this kind of game? the second approach 
 is to build up your war-mongering industry and try winning over the other alliances. This game 
 has SO much freedom, you want to play as Sweden in the axis or what would have happened with Germany 
 if they had waited another year before attacking Poland? try it out! most of the time, its very 
 historical! I've tried being Poland and defending against Germany, I can tell you that I made it 
 better than historical but in the end i was crushed because Germany had more capable industry, 
 mine was crushed when the first air raids started.
  
  The game has flaws as well, like the soviet-union being far too weak and USA not being active enough, 
 but people think that these things will be improved in the next patch (1.3)
  
  Graphics:
  The graphic in the game is not fancy as warcraft 3 or Empire Earth 2. What can I tell you... its 
 a map... with pictures... but its has been MUCH improvement since the other games from 'Paradox Entertainment' 
 and the map is a good looking map
  
  Sound:
  The sound is better then the graphics, mostly sounds from battles, guns firing, bombs exploding, 
 ships firing, troops marching, ect. its often kinda repeating sounds but it manage to do the trick 
 and a bit more.
  
  Value:
  I've had this game for a loo-ong time, I think its soon 1 year and I still play it from time to 
 time. I'd say that this is a VERY good game, it makes you want too play more and in another way 
 then before. these sort of things takes forever because of the freedom in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Geeze when I played Hearts of Iron when it first came out I owned the game for like a year and 
 never stopped playing it. It was so addictive to take over the world with various nations and just 
 move up the technology tree advance in front of people where you could take out other armies even 
 with little men because of your superior technology. And the fighting and strategy was so fun it 
 was just a great game I played over and over and over and over again. Now gamespot reviewed this 
 one higher than the last one but really I think that gamestop over rated this game because they 
 got more specific. Mainly I think this because I was very anxious to buy the new Hearts of Iron 
 II and I was thrilled that now I get to have even more fun. I played the game for around 10 mins..... wow.. that 
 sucks..... I didnt find an editor to edit the map any maybe I just didnt look hard enough or something. 
 Then what really bugged me was it wasnt like the old one. The old hearts of Iron it was fun and 
 simple just plain strategy and advancing and it was so much fun and they kept it fairly simple. 
 Hearts of Iron II got way more specific way to much add ons that I felt werent really all that 
 neccessary and really angered me at times and made me wanna stop playing. Then the productions 
 que process totally lost me from the last one I had to go through the manual and try and figure 
 out what I was doing here and I still didnt understand how the whole thing worked as the manual 
 was very vague on specifics unlike they were in the game. Which specifics can be a good think I 
 just thought they over did it putting so many new things into a great game that just with a few 
 changes could have been so awsome. Instead they like completely remodeled it and lost me in the 
 process and the whole fighting combat system was strange you could fight someone when they were 
 in a another city state instead of being in teh same city as you and it had to do with traveling 
 on the way and all this other bullcrap that really confused me and once again made me dislike the 
 game greatly. So if you can really grasp the basic concepts of this game with patience im sure 
 you will find it fun but I really like to keep things simple most of the times and this game I 
 just didnt have the patience of learning for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  I think Brett Todd, the official Gamespot reviewer of Hearts of Iron II, sums it up when he says 
 Hearts of Iron II fulfills the promise of its predecessor. this is what the original game should 
 have been."
  
  Question is, does one really want to pay another $50 for more or less the same thing? Basically 
 this is the original game with a few improvements. 
  
  Im not convinced that this kind of game engine can be successfully applied to a scenario like 
 World War II. Much of the game relies heavily on a world map which is divided up into large units 
 called provinces, which fucntion somwhat like the sqaures of a huge and complex chess game. The 
 provinces do have boundaries and names based on real-world areas, but these are not entirely accurate 
 and are more or less invented for purposes of the game. I find the system artificial and abstract. 
 The game closely resembles its predecessor EUII, which was the best in the series, as this was 
 set in a time where world was much simpler and politics hardly existed, and in which the province 
 system worked perfectly. 
  
  A problem with this game, that does not occur with the other games in the series, is the short 
 time scale. Everything happens within 10 years, and since any significant economic or political 
 change takes a long time to implement, it's difficult for a player to really achieve very much. 
 It's as if the game runs by itself like an unstoppable machine, with the player trying extremely 
 hard to steer it in a certain direction and achieving not very much. This can also be a good thing, 
 in that you can imagine you're in the role of leader. 
  
  HOI II, as many other of these Paradox games, has some rather irritating rules, for example, you 
 cant declare war on a country youre granting military access to, but a country who grants you 
 military access may declare war on you.
  
  But, having made all these criticisms, I must conclude by saying that it is interesting and educational 
 game, and has quite a lot of accurate historical information in it. The ministers, leaders, researchers 
 and companies are all modelled after real ones in history, and it can be fun to chnage things around 
 a bit, and rewrite that history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamen00
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron II is a great strategy game, if you have ever played Europa Universalis I or II 
 you will love this game. It is a little complicated to learn how everything works. But since the 
 first Hearts of Iron they have made the controls simpler and easier, even though they have made 
 a few additions that make a tad more complicated, like for example IC ( Industrial Capacity) which 
 affects how many things or troops you can build. The reason I liked the game was because it was 
 realistic and it followed historical events. Also the game has I think a little more than a hundred 
 countries to choose from, so you have many options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeC81
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review pretty much covered the basic points so I will go into some more in depth problems 
 with the game.
  
  As mentioned in the GS review, the same engine is recycled yet again and it is a detriment to the 
 game. Unlike in Europa Universalis, the nature of Hearts of Iron 2 places an incredibly large number 
 of units on the map at any given time. While the basic interface and basic graphics was workable 
 in Europa Universalis and its sequel, the clutter in Hearts of Iron 2 makes it a chore to command 
 the vast armies under you control, especially when playing a major nation like the United States 
 where you have to control multiple fronts at a time. For example, on the European battlefield, 
 provinces along the front lines will typically be filled with multiple units each with multiple 
 sub units. There is no way to check on the strength of the stack or the unit without manually clicking 
 on the unit or navigating a complete roster of all units on the upper left window. Furthermore, 
 many units have more than one subunit and frequently, there will be need detach a particular subunit 
 that has taken heavy casualties. All of this translates into a lot of clicking just to find out 
 who is capable of continuing to fight. Repeat this process for each province that has been recently 
 engaged in combat (and there is a lot of it once the war starts) and you find yourself getting 
 annoyed or overwhelmed. The inability to present players with critical information in an efficient 
 fashion is one of the games biggest faults.
  
  Another problem associated with the recycling of the original Europa Universalis engine is the 
 AI. Despite being the 6th iterations of the the Europa Universalis engine, Paradox has failed to 
 address problems which have plagued their each of their previous games with the AI essentially 
 going to sleep during the game. Every game year or so, it is required to save and then reload the 
 game in order to wake the AI back up. The AI also performs very poorly when handling air units 
 or invasions often resulting in major nations like the US and Britain not invading France even 
 if an allied player had established a beachhead for them to land.
  
  There are also problems with gameplay mechanics. Issues ranging from the inability to supply your 
 own forces through allied controlled territory often results in your ally being unable to meet 
 your strenuous supply demands and leaving your own units out of supply. While this can be mitigated 
 by using the resource trading feature in the diplomatic screen to ship them extra supplies for 
 nothing in return, there is no way of telling how much your forces overseas are consuming and how 
 much your ally needs to meet the shortfalls.
  
  Finally there is the total lack of a method to communicate with your allies to form a cohesive 
 battleplan. There is no way to ask them to support you in a certain area or to find out where they 
 wish your forces to be. Instead, the player most often take the initiative every time and simply 
 hope that the AI controlled allies will get a clue and support your operations. It definitely does 
 not feel like you are part of a faction in a major alliance given the total lack of communication.
 
  
  Despite all of these problems, there remains untapped potential in the game design. Should Paradox, 
 which is well known for good support of their titles even many months after launch, addresses AI 
 issues and other gameplay mechanics, a solid game could very well turn into an excellent game. 
 In addition, one of the few advantages of the Europa Universalis engine is the fact that the Paradox 
 fan community has intimate knowledge of the engine and can mod the game. Modders have consistently 
 made Paradox games better and mods are already in the works for Hearts of Iron 2.
  
  To sum it up, Hearts of Iron 2 offers good gameplay despite some very annoying faults in the gameplay 
 mechanics department. The graphics are serviceable at best with the main fault being the inability 
 to present the overwhelming amount of data needed by the player in a concise manner. Sound is as 
 noted in the GS review being rather sparse with a good but limited soundtrack. The value is undeniable 
 with multiple starting points for the Grand Campaign and numerous other smaller scenarios. My take 
 on Hearts of Iron 2 is that it is a good game with bugs and design flaws that hold it back from 
 being a great or outstanding game. Lets cross our fingers and hope Paradox's history of good support 
 for their titles holds up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adlerson
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 31, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  A lot of things have improved since the first HOI game. For realistic WWII era strategy games this 
 is it, these days. The only one really worthy of being called a 'realistic strategy game'. 
  
  The new attack system is very good, the new research system is awesome, trade is much better, 
 so is diplomacy. Overall a lot better game than the predecessor.
  
  That said, there are a couple of things that really turn me off this game as it stands currently: 
 
  -It's not possible to change the resolution of the game. Now who in their right mind would do this 
 with a game, these days??
  -All units of a certain type is represented with 1 (ONE) sprite. If two infantry units stand next 
 to each other, one from 1936 and one from 1942, they are represented with the same sprite. Even 
 worse, different types of bombers, even if they range greatly in intended use depending on what 
 type they are, are again only represented by one icon.
  These two issues makes the game feel cheap, and I hope Paradox will fix this in a future patch. 
 If they don't I'm not sure how much I'll be playing it. 
  A shame, since I loved the original to death.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2005 6:41 am PT
Review:  Hearts of Iron II is the sequel to the original strategic war game, Hearts of Iron. Hearts of Iron 
 II is the most recent and latest hardcore strategy game. Basically, it covers everything involving 
 World War II, from the battles, to the historic past that looms around it. To put it in simple 
 terms, Hearts of Iron II will be an astounding game to people who have played and/or liked historical 
 turn-based strategy games.
  
  Hearts of Iron II has so much information packed inside the game, it's actually very impressive, 
 and very detailed to boot. Every single info put into the game is actually historically correct 
 including things like events, economy, trade, armies, and anything such as that. It's a pretty 
 good game to learn from, in terms of World War II. You'll find all the minor and major information 
 in here, and you can actually have a bit of fun learning it as well.
  
  Now enough with the game's information that's been packed into the CD, now the real review about 
 the game. Hearts of Iron II is really a game of decision and choices, and it'll definitely affect 
 you in the long-run. The number of options available might be a little too overwhelming, for example 
 the number of nations. There are over 80 different nations, and you can find the respected information 
 on them. All these countries pretty much range from the beginning of World War II to the end of 
 World War II. You'll bound to have some fun with the overwhelming information on the countries 
 if you're a historian freak, of course.
  
  Basically, you are controlling the action on an hourly basis throughout the years of World War 
 II. To just point out the simple fact, Hearts of Iron II is a very long game. Hearts of Iron II 
 is definitely not a game for the impatient gamer, or someone that likes quick fast-paced action 
 games. But even at that, there are quicker modes. Such as the 'Russian Winter War' mode, this will 
 probably take a day or two to complete, and you still get a lot of coverage on World War II by 
 playing this mode.
  
  What really makes Hearts of Iron II very hard and complicated to learn is it's deep gameplay, modes, 
 and options it has to offer. It's basic change is it's research and aspects that are within the 
 game. Hearts of Iron II requires you to allocate resources to maintaining and rebuilding your existing 
 armies as well as upgrading units. This can be quite costly and slow the production of new units 
 to a near standstill if you have to, for instance, upgrade all infantry divisions to the next generation 
 which has better equipment and combat stats. It's fairly difficult to understand all this, but 
 if you have the time and will to learn, you'll get used to it in a few hours time.
  
  The combat in Hearts of Iron II is where it really shines, which is also mixed in with the gameplay. 
 Land battles are actually quite realistic, allowing you to put in more strategic elements to your 
 game. For most of the battles, however, Hearts of Iron II requires you to move units into a hostile 
 environment or area where enemy troops and soldiers are present. Obviously, you cannot capture 
 this land or area your fighting for until the enemy has been defeated. So it's just a battle to 
 the death, with a mix of strategic elements, of course.
  
  The A. I. certainly isn't the best, but it's still got a lot going for it. The A. I. does seem a 
 bit predictable at some times, but you can really still find the A. I. challenging with some of 
 the harder missions and battles you have to complete. The A. I. knows most of the moves and ideas 
 you plan for, so you have to be extra careful at what you do, which adds to the realism of Hearts 
 of Iron II.
  
  You have a lot of things you can actually do, and your decisions really affect the battles you 
 will be facing. You can really attack almost any country, or have a country attack anyone else. 
 So you can change the effects of World War II if you please, and that's a real big plus since it 
 gives you more options then you can really handle.
  
  What makes Hearts of Iron II a difficult game to get used to, is with the wide range of options 
 and decisions you have to make. For the casual gamer, it's a frustrating experience, and really 
 shouldn't be recommended for someone that doesn't enjoy games that he/she can easily get into and 
 learn from. There is a tutorial on the game, but even that will take time to get used to. You really 
 have to dedicate a few good days on Hearts of Iron II, as that's the only way to get used to the 
 gameplay.
  
  The graphics for Hearts of Iron II have been improved from it's predecessor greatly, and looks 
 good as a strategy game. The interfaces look detailed, and also have been improved from the first 
 game. Though, I have a few complaints Most animations are rather dull, boring, or just flat-out 
 unoriginal. I find myself watching the same animations over and over again it really gets pretty 
 annoying after watching it time and time again. Examples of these are aircrafts, armies, and pretty 
 much anything that moves. I believe there could of been a real improvement here, and if that would 
 of been possible, it would of worked out better because of the realistic gameplay that it shows 
 off.
  
  The sound and audio really dissatisfied me. There wasn't much of a selection of musical and classical 
 tunes, which left me wanting more. The effects sound a little above average, but for the point, 
 it's not as good as I thought it would be. There's too much missing from the sound and audio that 
 it didn't impress me well enough.
  
  However, you can still get a lot from Hearts of Iron II. It offers so much for it's value that 
 the possibilities are almost endless. You got a lot of accomplish and complete if you can stick 
 with the game's steep learning curve. It's quite detailed, as explained earlier, and it truly has 
 a lot to offer, allowing the game to extend to a higher level of value.
  
  Hearts of Iron II's possibilites, are once again, endless. There are too many possibilities to 
 explain in one full review. That's really the biggest thing going for Hearts of Iron II. You got 
 a lot of strategic elements, information, and the like involved and processed into one game. There 
 are some things that bring Hearts of Iron II down, and one of the big things is the audio and learning 
 curve. The audio seems watered down and doesn't sound like it should have. The steep learning curve 
 will definitely frustrate newcomers, as it is a complex learning curve. The graphics are sub-par 
 at best. Some of the animations do look clunky and dull, but the interfaces within the game look 
 well done. It'll take quite a bit of time to get used to, so be prepared for that. If you can really 
 get past the learning curve of Hearts of Iron II, you'll find an entertaining strategy game with 
 a lot to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer10705
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is tough on the brain but pays off in the end. This is the ultimate WW2 strategy game. 
 For fans of intense 3D graphics or first person shooters, the game may be a complete turnoff. There 
 is a strong learning curve. But for those who would like to play out a time in history, possibly 
 "doing something different" or "renacting it" from a large perspective, this is a great game.
 
  
  If you've played any other of these types of games like "Europa Universalis II" you will be familiar 
 with the interface, but it has still changed in so many ways that its hard to explain. It will 
 look like a similar game but in reality it is quite different and much more complex.
  
  All of the major players in the war are here. Photographs of generals, government officials, etc. 
 are all in the game with detailed descriptions. This is really a brilliant strategy game with an 
 amazing replay value. Fans of games like "Rome: Total War", "Civilization", "Superpower", or any 
 of these similar games won't be disappointed.
  
  You may be overwhelmed, but only because of the depth of this game and the unlimited possibilities. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TotalWar212
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I have all the Grand strategies made by Paradox and find them all sensational games. But this is 
 a highly addictive game. My only quarrel is that there are not enough new features. It seems more 
 of a expansion pack than a new game but is still so fun! Many new diplomatic abbilities and technological 
 trees bring new things. This game is so hard! I would recommend this game only if you are very 
 interseted or have other Paradox games! I love this game! Micromanaging every little detail in 
 HOI2 can be a pain so I wouldn't recommend playing England due to all her colonies abroad, while 
 also managing her convoys. Although she is my favorite country to play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
