-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hearts of Iron
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heartsofiron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 286 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Paradox Inter.
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 24, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The path to victory in Hearts of Iron can be rewarding, but it can be pretty bumpy too. 

 Hearts of Iron takes the well-known conflict World War II and, rather than focusing on small-scale, 
 tactical skirmishes like some other strategy and first-person shooter games, instead looks at the 
 big picture. The game spans the entire globe from 1936 through 1947, roughly following the outline 
 of the actual war but letting you fill in the details. You get to play as any nation and focus 
 not merely on military might, but also on diplomacy, research, and economics. Hearts of Iron was 
 developed by Sweden's Paradox Entertainment, creators of the Europa Universalis strategy series. 
 Like those games, Hearts of Iron is big, complex, and definitely not for a casual player seeking 
 a little light entertainment. But, if you have the time and determination to delve into the game's 
 nuances and can look past its many faults, it can be an engaging game.           The meager tutorials 
 don't much to ease the learn curve.    

  Hearts of Iron attempts to shoehorn traditional grand strategy, which has long been the province 
 of turn-based gaming, into a real-time format with only partial success. The game's interface can 
 at times be clumsy, cluttered, or counterintuitive, and it often bombards you with too much information, 
 or it doesn't give you enough. You can change the way the game displays some information, but doing 
 so can be a chore in itself.   

  Hearts of Iron doesn't seem like a complete game, since it ships with an essentially unfinished 
 manual and its in-game tutorials are mediocre at best. Some of the pop-up tooltips in the game 
 are either blank or are simply redundant or uninformative. Worst of all, Hearts of Iron is buggy 
 and prone to crash. You'll need to save your game often, or you risk losing a string of hard-won 
 victories to the game's capricious code.   

  That's not to say that Hearts of Iron is all bad -- quite the opposite, in fact, since it offers 
 lots of entertaining gameplay possibilities. While it's a real-time game, it still looks and plays 
 like a traditional turn-based strategy game in a lot of ways. The main window features a prominent 
 global map that you can zoom in and out on. The map is divided into countries and subdivided into 
 smaller provinces or states that form the basic strategic building blocks of the game. Surrounding 
 the world map, you'll find an array of status indicators, message boxes, and icons that open numerous 
 detailed data screens.   

  Beginning from 1936, 1939, or 1941, you can play as any country in the world, though playing as 
 a tiny nation like Paraguay will likely be boring and futile, if not downright silly. There's just 
 too little to do diplomatically, economically, and militarily for many nations. Whatever country 
 you choose, your ultimate goal remains the same: conquer as many nations as possible for your country 
 or your alliance.   

  Given Hearts of Iron's focus on major affairs of state, long-term decision making, and the movement 
 of whole armies of troops, it's somewhat odd and unfortunate that the game plays out in real time. 
 It's true that you can slow the game speed and issue orders while paused. You'll really need to 
 do both if you want any chance of making informed decisions while managing the countless factors 
 under your control. A turn-based system likely would have made the constant flow of information 
 more manageable and could have given more structure to the gameplay.   

  One beneficial thing about Hearts of Iron's real-time gameplay is that it can reasonably simulate 
 the coordination of military units better than a turn-based design might. One of the most unusual 
 and interesting features of Hearts of Iron is its combat coordination box. When you engage an enemy 
 unit, this box will appear and let you choose different tasks for your attacking units. A land 
 unit might be able to blitz (attempt to crash through enemy lines in a high-speed armored or mechanized 
 attack) or feint (probe to discover enemy force compositions but withdraw before the fighting gets 
 too heavy) . Depending on their composition, air squadrons might be able to carry out tactical or 
 strategic bombing missions, drop paratroopers, and more. Naval units also enjoy a number of different 
 options, including patrolling to interdict enemy supply convoys (which you can also set up and 
 manage for your own country) .           Hearts of Iron's large-scale maps help give you an overview 
 of your forces.    

  With the combat coordination box, you can actually set the desired arrival time of each friendly 
 unit into an enemy province. This way you can, to a degree, simulate the sorts of combined-arms 
 maneuvers that characterized World War II. For instance, you can send a Panzer division with tactical 
 air support roaring into an enemy province a few hours before your infantry march in.   

  While Hearts of Iron plays out in pausable real-time, the combat is handled internally on a round-based 
 system, with new calculations made each game day at noon. One of the interesting things about the 
 game is that there's a lot going on under the hood -- every unit has numerous statistics, and every 
 combat engagement takes several factors into account -- but you don't have to busy yourself with 
 all that if you don't want to. You can carefully consider leadership, supply, terrain, and numerous 
 other factors before making an attack, or you can adopt a more simplistic "tank rush" approach 
 and just try to mass troops and outnumber your enemy. You can often succeed either way.    

 
 Unfortunately, despite the interesting possibilities that the game's combat coordination box offers, 
 Hearts of Iron's battles actually turn out to be rather uninvolving. The game does a weak job of 
 relaying the progress of an ongoing battle, let alone creating any drama. In essence, friendly 
 units move into a province containing enemy units, and you wait a little while for a message to 
 appear onscreen declaring the winner.           The game's research screens are a bit too cluttered. 
    

  The AI plays inconsistently too, sometimes pulling off sound and unexpected maneuvers but also 
 repeatedly and unsuccessfully hammering the same province piecemeal instead of seeking a more creative 
 or sophisticated alternative. In addition, the AI will sometimes foolishly let you sail whole armadas 
 right up to its ports and then do nothing about it unless one side has formally declared war on 
 the other. "Sneak attacks" were never easier. At least there's an option for LAN and Internet multiplayer 
 if the AI doesn't suit you.   

  While most of Hearts of Iron's gameplay ultimately revolves around military conquest, the game 
 offers plenty of other things to do in support of your military aspirations. You need to manage 
 your economy and industry, for instance. The basic unit of strategic currency in Hearts of Iron 
 is industrial capacity, or IC. Your maximum IC will depend on the number of provinces you control 
 and their level of industrialization.   

  To put your IC to good use, you need to gather the game's four resources: coal, steel, rubber, 
 and oil. You can find some of these within your country's borders at the start of the game, but 
 you also need to engage in conquest and trade to acquire more of them. Unfortunately, the trade 
 screen isn't as immediately clear and easy to use as it should be, and the game's cluttered research 
 screen is even less easy to use.   

  Along with economics, you'll get to delve into the realm of diplomacy. You automatically accrue 
 diplomatic influence points on a regular basis. You can earn bonus points through territorial conquests, 
 spectacular military victories, and diplomatic coups, like annexing a nation or installing a puppet 
 regime. You can then use these points to influence the political alignment of other nations toward 
 your own, though you unfortunately don't get to delve into the details of how that's done. It would 
 have been fun to engage in the nuances of diplomacy, particularly when playing as some of the more 
 characteristically ruthless nations, like Germany or the Soviet Union.   

  Still, you do get plenty of general diplomatic options overall, like sending expeditionary forces, 
 demanding territories, and sharing research. And despite its weaknesses, the diplomacy feature 
 can be one of the more entertaining elements of the game. A protracted war of attrition between 
 France and Germany, for example, can suddenly shift dramatically when Germany convinces Spain to 
 join the hostilities and invade France from the south.   

  Visually, Hearts of Iron is reminiscent of the Europa Universalis games and looks generally decent, 
 but not much better than that. The map is reasonably colorful, and it's nice to see some period 
 photos gracing some of the information screens. Your units are represented by simple icons (or 
 optional NATO symbols) with rudimentary animations. Overall, the graphics just barely get the job 
 done, and they offer nothing that captures and holds your attention, let alone anything that grips 
 you emotionally.   

  The audio is equally workmanlike and does comparatively little to establish any WWII ambience -- you'll 
 hear the sound of marching boots as an infantry division moves, for example, but little more. The 
 game's orchestral score is more interesting and entertaining, since it exclusively features pieces 
 of European classical music. The music, which cycles unabated unless you turn it off, can lead 
 to some unintentionally amusing coincidences, like the cannons in Tchaikovsky's "1812 Overture" 
 sounding at the exact moment Germany declares war on Poland in the game.           You can check 
 the diplomatic standing of each nation.    

  However, the actual selection of music seems almost random. It's certainly fitting to hear bombastic 
 orchestral excerpts from Wagner's operas, but Bach's jaunty "Badinerie" for flute seems remarkably 
 out of place, as do quite a few other selections. The designers could have made far more appropriate 
 choices, choosing ominous or martial-sounding pieces by Shostakovich, Prokofiev, Holst, Jancek, 
 Bruckner, Mahler, or a host of others.   

  This sort of awkwardness seems to characterize Hearts of Iron on the whole. It's a game of potential 
 realized and potential wasted. The path to victory in Hearts of Iron can be rewarding, but it can 
 be pretty bumpy too.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pundarian
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  The game makes me a wise man since it drives your brain as hard as it can be. You think about strategy, 
 diplomacy, intelligences... many many detailed options. It makes me addicted and I know it is detrimental 
 to my study. LoL The game also provide abundent options of playing. To destroy a country, it doesn't 
 offer only arms, but also some "Peaceful" methods. That is quite good that the game puts you in 
 the post of commander in chief but not only a warlord. This is so many other strategic games cannot 
 offer. Well done, Paradox!
  But it is really time consuming for waiting the tech and production to become mature. This does 
 really make it a game not suitable for a student who is taking cert. exam like me. 
  It is , also, really a great and mind-blowing feature for the number of tech institutes and all 
 the minister and department. What I am trying to say is that the historic photo and information. 
 We don't see them in a history book, right? ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake14159
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game where you can take control of a country and shape history the way you want 
 it to be. In my game I had America and Great Britan on my side and I was Germany. The game sticks 
 to the historical aspect of WW2 very well. I actually learned more about WW2 playing this game 
 than from any book I read on the subject. The gameplay is great. I have to admit it took me a while 
 to figure out the penalties and bonuses for units and how to interact with other countries, but 
 after you get that down, The game is very simple: Beat the crap out of every country you can. The 
 only reason the game isn't a 10 is because the little people aren't the best graphics out there 
 and the music isn't really listened to anymore. But just turn the volume down and play the best 
 WW2 strategy of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  If, when you were a kid, you wondered what Advanced Squad Leader was all about. If, while in high 
 school or college, you played Axis and Allies, Fortress America or Shogun. If you enjoyed playing 
 Nobunaga's Ambition while your friends were busy playing Metroid and Punch-Out, you'll probably 
 really like this game.
  In an age long before real time strategy; in an era where people played RPGs on a table top instead 
 of a laptop (because there were no laptops) ; in a time when I walked to school barefoot through 
 fields of snow covered broken glass, this kind of game ruled the B. Dalton software shelf. That 
 new wargame about a Soviet invasion of West Germany just dared you to try to go to sleep before 
 midnight.
  Same kind of thing, this game. You just can''t wait to get home to play another round as Belgium. 
 No, wait, this time as Algeria. Don't doubt it, it's old school and anyone who's into RTS or even 
 Civ, for that matter, may not like it that much. But if you like serious, old fashioned, turn based 
 strategy, this is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  HOI was a game i awaited eagerly since i have heard it was going to be the WW2 theater of the classic 
 Eurapa Universalis series. EU has always have a special place in my heart then the others. So it 
 was neutral that my expectations was high.
  
  When i got the game, it looked superb. Always the way a WW2 game supposed to be. Fantastic colors 
 of maps, units etc. However, i was seriously confused with the tech. tree and research system (Which 
 was greatly improved in HOI2) . The combat system was awful, it was nearly impossible to control 
 units, why the organization levels drop, and what happened, why retreat or victory, everything 
 happened out of control of user. Also supply system was complicated, ships or transports arranging 
 was chaotic. Moreover, the explantaion of icons and systems were insufficient, a critical issue 
 where the user needed most.
  
  These aspects gave me frustraton beyond patience, i removed the game in total dissapointment afterwards.
 
  
  I approached HOI2 more cautiously, but i see the issues i addressed here were all fixed and it 
 is one of my favorites now. I recommend everyone the second sequel doubtlessly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 5, 2004 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I had not played HoI before November 2004, when I received the very patched-up, somewhat expanded, 
 up-to-date Platinum version. I had previously tried to manage EU1 & EU2, but always with much stress 
 & distress... even though I had a platonic-love kind of fascination for the very smart softwares 
 concocted by the brilliant Paradox engineers & coders. That's why my reviewer's tilt score, here, 
 is a 10... although I only award a 5 for gameplay : I'm deeply in love with the geostrategic concepts 
 & models of Paradox's softwares, but I find them much too complicated to manage to recognize them 
 as "games".
  
  Most of you probably learned to "play" the EU titles and the original HoI by jumping into them 
 and by then progressing by trial-and-error improvisation. I belong to this minority of gamers who 
 are prudent, obsessive thinkers : we are afraid of too spontaneous & clumsy improvisations, we 
 have to read the manual and understand the software's architecture & mechanics before "playing". 
 
  
  I usually thrive in turn-based strategy games (such as the HoM&M series, the MoO series, the AoW 
 series, the first A&A) . For example, in the excellent Total War series, I never go on the tactical 
 battlefield in the beautiful RTS mode : I use the automated combat-resolution feature and I limit 
 myself to the turn-based Grand Strategy mode on the world-map. Consequently, all of Paradox's softwares 
 stress, overpressure & oppress me. I cannot get around to manage an empire's economy & geostrategy 
 in a real-time framework... even on the slowest setting, even with the game paused ! 
  
  I believe it's an emotional block, not an intellectual deficiency. I must take my time, think about 
 the various strategic options... and then, hit the end-turn button.
  
  So... I have this very smart & complex HoI Platinum installed on the disk drive, I read the manual, 
 did the tutorials... but for me, there are too much informations & variables to manage in a real-time 
 framework. It's Platonic Love : you have a crush, you admire the object of your passion... but there's 
 no touch, no fooling around, no fun.
  
  I wonder if Paradox could program an alternate turn-based mode to its future titles. I don't think 
 it would be that difficult to code. It would expand their market. Those of us who like to take 
 our time at Master of Orion and Civilization could enjoy the management of that complexity, without 
 depriving the RTS crowd of its fast & furious shark-feeding frenzy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 28, 2004 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game is great in many areas. Researching real technologies, building real units, assigning 
 and even promoting historical generals, and conquest. Unlike "axis & allies" type games, you can 
 take over Europe city by city and town by town. Other great features include changing the members 
 of your government, deciding your countries elections, and being able to play the game as any country 
 in the world (even Yemen) ! The game is easy to learn despite how complicated it may seem. The real-time 
 aspect is also nice. Only improvements could have been in the diplomacy arena, which seems to lack. 
 BUT!!!! The origonal version of the game is full of so many bugs that it is virtually unplayable. 
 The AI is on vacation and armies disappear out of nowhere. I have the 1.06patch installed and like 
 every other patch for this game it has solved a boatload of problems while creating many more. 
 For example, the bugs are gone but the game is now extreamly difficult even on easy. This is because 
 even the poorest countries can mass-produce units, meaning that the computer players can ignore 
 economic aspects of the game. Also, my super-megapanzers are being totally whipped by a force of 
 Brazillians who are outnumbered 10 to 1. Overall a great game, if you can get it to play right. 
 I'm looking forward to the sequal to this game comming soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BayonetRecon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2004 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Paradox has made an excellent WWII strategy game. It's taken time to work out some of the bugs, 
 but as always, Paradox shows it's dedicated to supporting it's games. This game will make you think 
 and keep you coming back for more. Be prepared for some very long nights when you first start playing.
 
  
  As others have said, there is a learning curve. Ignore much of what's said in the book and hit 
 the forums and read. There's a lot of good stuff there.
  
  The animated icons were initially cool, but afterwhile you come to ignore the cool factor. The 
 sound is so-so. But to be honest, you don't play this type of game to be wow'd by graphics and 
 sound. (So ignore those ratings.)
  
  I recommend patching this to the most current, and picking up the C. O. R. E. mod. Once you play that, 
 you'll most likely never go back to the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdfpoiu
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2004 10:29 am PT
Review:  When I first played Hearts of Iron, I was underwhelmed. The game economy for the US seemed to dwindle 
 to nothing in a heartbeat. It took several tries to find out the ins and outs of the game. After 
 overcoming the steep learning curve (and less-than informative game manual) I have found Hearts 
 of Iron to be one of the best strategic WWII sime around (actually, one of the only ones) . The 
 main drawbacks for me are the repetitive soundtrack (the '1812 Overture' is fine once or twice, 
 but not on repetive loop) and the sound effects for selecting units and special notification alarms. 
 It got so bad I finally just turned the sound on my computer off and had the CD player going. Also, 
 the animated icons are fine initially, but I tend to prefer the NATO icons as better edcriptions 
 of unit types and locations. The NATO icons are also better if you have an older computer with 
 less graphics capability.
  Overall, if you are a history buff and/or interested in WWII history, then get this game. If not, 
 you might want to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2003 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Only a few drawbacks from this game no real combat occurs you see 2 pieces firing at them but the 
 good part is the sound is great click on the two battling pieces and you hear lots of tank rolling, 
 marching, rifles flaring, machine guns roaring and I know this isnt what people usually look for 
 but that leaves your imagination to the game for you to decide in your mind picturing your troops 
 moving into an enemy town peeking around corners tossing grenades into bunker doors its a great 
 game it time consuming but its so addictive that you hardly know how much time passes I play for 
 about 5 hours and it seems like ive only been playing for almost 1 hour its just that fun very 
 detailed everything you research stuff for your armys and modern technology which also contributes 
 toward you armys such as the creation of a sub machine gun increase your units attack and defense 
 then you upgrade to improved sub machine gun then to assualt rifle and etc on and on this game 
 is loads of fun its not your usually map game I hate map stradegy game because there so boring 
 just moving and moving no real action but this is diffrent this game is great fun not just dullness 
 of moving from place to place on your map its an awsome game it also allows you to create history 
 such as being germany and actually conquering the world all because you influenced america to fasciest 
 and allied with them and together with italy and japan conquer the world while you get europ and 
 africa italy helps in africa where as japan conquers Asia and American conquers canada mexica and 
 all of south america and you can also slip in troops and get your share in wherever you want this 
 game is just simply so much fun if you get it you wont in any way be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajojose18
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 9, 2003 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The game is good and just like the other two reviewers have mentioned, patches have been released 
 that address problems in the game (quite a few as of this writing actually) . The core concept in 
 my opinion is a great idea, but it looks like the implementation part was rushed.
  
  As for burning the game, I don't have much to say that hasn't been said yet. My only gripe is the 
 tutorial and manual- it exits to windows after every mission and the manual goes... da da da da 
 STOP... too abrupt for me and it didn't even cover everything in the game.
  
  Don't let the bugs in the game turn you off from buying it - I'm sure that most problems will be 
 addressed with the game patches and after that, the game should be stable enough to provide endless 
 hours of tactical fun.
  
  ps. I'm a fan of details and this game does not disappoint - from the technology research to the 
 commander names, this game has a hefty amount of details. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
