-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heavy Gear II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/heavygear2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  1, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.1, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 376 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     May 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Heavy Gear II is the most impressive game yet in the giant robot genre. 

 Activision built the giant robot genre, first with the Dynamix-created MechWarrior and then with 
 its in-house-designed MechWarrior 2 series. But when the company lost the BattleTech license, it 
 also lost its hard-developed reputation. The company's first attempt at a post-MechWarrior game, 
 Heavy Gear, was a rush job that disappointed fans of MechWarrior and the Dream Pod 9 Heavy Gear 
 universe alike. But when Activision redeems itself, it does so with a vengeance. Heavy Gear II 
 is everything the first game wasn't. Many members of the team that developed it worked on MechWarrior 
 2: Ghost Bear's Legacy, considered by many to be the best giant robot game ever. Well, Heavy Gear 
 II has just stolen that title.  

 Considering Activision's history with this genre, and considering this game's release hot on the 
 heels of MechWarrior 3, Heavy Gear II obviously begs comparison with MicroProse's game. But other 
 than some general similarities - a far-future science fiction universe; large, armored, humanoid-shaped 
 battle vehicles; a dystopian future society - they are actually rather different games. MechWarrior 
 3 puts you in the cockpit of a giant robot-shaped tank, while Heavy Gear II drops you into much 
 smaller battle armor. More to the point, however, whereas MechWarrior 3 relies upon superb special 
 effects and occasional technology enhancements over previous mech games while suffering from a 
 short, weak campaign, Heavy Gear II significantly advances the genre. Here, the dazzling graphics 
 engine is supported by an almost strategic battle system, a challenging campaign, squadmates who 
 are actually useful, and unpredictable enemies. The immersion here is unprecedented.  

 Heavy Gear II is built on an entirely new graphics engine, called Dark Side. It's very impressive, 
 with detailed, heavily articulated gears and vehicles, natural-looking fauna, vivid landscapes 
 ranging from forests to Martian-like craterscapes, weather, and smoke and dust effects. There's 
 plenty of variety here - you'll fight in desert canyons, forests, caverns, and even deep space. 
 The game requires a Direct3D-capable graphics card, and graphics performance overall is very good, 
 with only occasional slowdowns in the middle of big firefights with lots of explosions going on 
 or zoom targeting active. Sound effects are equally impressive, from the movement of your gear 
 to explosions to combat chatter. With only a couple of exceptions, the voice acting is quite convincing. 

 The main program interface is sparse but intuitive. After choosing a mission, fairly simple menus 
 let you customize your gear and choose your squad members. This game is a tweaker's dream, with 
 hundreds of possible combinations of equipment for your gear. Instead of limiting your gear's equipment 
 by weight, you're given a maximum threat level. By balancing your weapons, armor, movement capabilities, 
 and miscellaneous perks (such as jump jets, stealth, and reinforced armor) and flaws (such as exposed 
 fire-control systems, weak armor in a particular quarter, or defective sensors) , you must bring 
 your gear's threat level to the maximum allowed by a particular mission. It's a somewhat artificial 
 limitation, but it gives you lots of flexibility if you're willing to risk balancing perks and 
 flaws. Unfortunately, you can't modify your squadmates' gears; you can only select from preconfigured 
 variants.  

 Controls are also highly customizable. Out of the box, the game offers an almost Quake-like control 
 setup using the mouse and the numeric keypad. This default has been the subject of much debate 
 online, and while I had no trouble adapting to it, experienced MechWarrior players may want to 
 shift to a setup taking advantage of joystick, pedals, and throttle controllers. Gears are more 
 nimble than mechs, and in close-in combat, precise control is a must.  

 If you work through the series of seven interactive training missions before entering combat, you 
 should be comfortable with the controls before tackling real missions. Next you might want to try 
 a couple of the eight included "historical" missions, so you don't risk losing campaign missions 
 while you're getting a feel for the game. Be warned, though, these can be very challenging.  

 
 The meat of the game is the campaign. Although there aren't many more missions here than in MechWarrior 
 3, these are likely to take you much longer to play through. The missions are well designed and 
 balanced (if you pay close attention to maxing out your available threat level) , with plenty of 
 interesting plot twists. Although sim-style games like this don't typically include an in-level 
 save feature, you may find yourself wishing for one here. Some of the longer missions have cinematic 
 sequences when various goals are accomplished, followed by new objectives you'll need to meet. 
 It can be quite frustrating to work your way through two segments of a mission successfully only 
 to be taken down after 20 minutes and have to start over.  

 To make it through the campaign alive, you'll need help. You can bring along additional gears; the 
 maximum number and threat level available vary from mission to mission. The command interface for 
 handling your squad is superb. A couple of keypresses will send attack, regroup, and other simple 
 commands. The Tab key brings up a 3D overhead tactical map (shades of Activision's underappreciated 
 Battlezone) . Here you can send gears off to scout an area, have them follow a path, or give them 
 orders to attack a target or defend a friendly. Such detailed control makes this far more than 
 a simple blast-fest. Send one unit out to distract with a frontal attack while sending the rest 
 of the gears in for an attack from left-flank position.  

 Your squadmates are fairly smart and can react independently. In fact, pilots have individual personalities, 
 and some may not be as obedient as others. Enemy pilots vary in skill, but some are deadly. Tanks 
 can be taken down pretty easily, but enemy gears will sneak up behind you, move out of your range 
 of fire, and even use team tactics against you.  

 An instant-action mode lets you pit one to five gears on each side against each other in a wide 
 variety of environs. In addition, Activision has made a mission editor available for download online, 
 which means you should see user-created historical missions in the near future.  

 The only area of Heavy Gear II that may leave you wanting more is multiplayer. You will find more 
 than the basics here: It supports LAN play, Internet play on free Activision servers, and Mplayer, 
 and there are plenty of options for limiting the types of gears and weapons that can be used. There 
 are strategic conquest, capture the flag, steal the beacon, deathmatch, and duelist options, so 
 there's plenty of variety. What's missing, though, is the ability to play with and against AI gears. 
 The AI is so good in this game that it would be a blast to be able to take a group of buddies up 
 against a group of computer-controlled gears. Or even better, play the campaign missions cooperatively. 
 Still, multiplayer is more entertaining than the "shoot the leg" combat of MechWarrior 3.  

 Overall, Heavy Gear II is the most impressive game yet in the giant robot genre. You'll definitely 
 have to break from tradition - there's almost as much Tribes and Terra Nova here as there is MechWarrior 
 (not to mention a pinch of Quake) . Still, it's an adaptation well worth making, and Activision's 
 designers deserve praise for realizing that exciting missions and challenging AI are as important 
 as flashy graphics and feature checklists.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CCHIPSS
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the best mech simulation game I have ever played. What separate this game from others is 
 the controls and damage counting, which leads into fun and realistic game play. 
  
  You need to use every button on the num-pad to control your mech, or gear. Compared with other 
 mech games you will notice that the controls in HG2 are much more "manual" than other games, but 
 in a good way. What you will miss is the auto torso turning and auto aiming. What you gain is the 
 ability to shoot without stopping and the ability to predict where the enemy will be and aim there 
 instead.
  
  In space the controls simply makes sense. You are required to manually use the thrusters on your 
 gear to get it to do what you want. What you will miss is the ability to always keep enemies at 
 sight range (lossing sight of the enemy happens very often) . What you gain is the ability to do 
 almost whatever you want in space. 
  
  Another aspect of this game is the damage. When the enemy hits you in specific spots you either 
 takes extra damage or receives negative status such as losing your weapon (s) . You can apply the 
 same status to your enemies as well. While these status are annoying sometimes it also makes the 
 game much more realistic (in other games your mech might get stronger and faster as you are dying) . 
 The downside though is that there is no repair kits available, so when you get a status sometimes 
 it means game over (e. g. when your torso is damaged you cannot aim left and right) . This is one 
 big aspect of this game that is missing. That is the reason why I gave this game 9 instead of a 
 10. 
  
  Overall the game is very revolutionary and very fun to play. Some battles I had were amazing. The 
 only complain I have about the game play is that lack of space battles. Only 4 out of the 22 missions 
 take place in space, and 2 of them doesn't really count. 
  
  The control does take a while to get used to, specially in space. But once you mastered the controls 
 the game is a blast. I would recommend any mech fans to try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman_2006
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game for $10 dollars not long ago I was expecting a good, solid shooter. 
 All I got was a game with 100 weapons you could put on your robot and very hard controls.
  
  I couldn't pass the first level for about 1 or 2 hours becasue it took me so long to get the 
 hang of the controls. After I got the hang of the controls the game became easier and more fun. 
 The enemy A. I is pretty good and the sound is also good.
  
  The graphics are pretty damn good for a game made in 1999. Overall this game is good after a few 
 hours of gameplay or when you get the hang of the controls. It is worth the $10 I spent on it and 
 I would recommend it to all fans of robot/shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stdjxf15
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  If you've ever heard of Armored Troopers VOTOMS, then you know Heavy Gear is basically a spinoff 
 of that. But thats not to say thats a bad thing, This is a mech game that makes mechs actually 
 a plausible war machine and activision did it very well. From the retractable "wheels'' to the 
 anti- personel machinguns and the heavy anti-gear weapons, every thing seems plausible and has 
 a purpose. Dont want to use your heavy rounds for mere infantry, unload on them normandy style 
 with your shoulder mounted gattling gun, want to travel faster, use your "wheel". The game is great, 
 and I have many of the new games out there but I still play this one and have been since it cameout 
 in '99. Why give this game a try, well first of all its just that good, and secondly, you can esily 
 get this title for under $9.00! And if u like VOTOMS, Starship Troopers (the novel) or reminise 
 on games such as Terra Nova: Strike Force Centauri, then I highly recomend this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  what this game IS is a giant robot game, the controls are a bit of a pain at first but its great 
 fun once you get used to it. What happens is you are a pilot of a robot called a "gear" in the 
 campain and you have 3 different weapons on it. Your first one is a handheld one which isnt really 
 a lot but you can tear the human enemy troops apart with those dead easy. the second weapon is 
 sholder mounted and is built onto your gear as is the third. one thing you realise about these 
 is a lot of gears have either a minigun on their right sholder or a rocket launcher which is always 
 a laugh and the human troops etc. are only half your gears size and die easily. There is no multiplayer 
 in the game to speak of (since they've gone off to play other great multiplayers) and i won't blame 
 them. The instant action is worthy of mention since you can battle gears in a deathmatch style 
 play. The graphics aren't the best ive ever seen and the sound is standard stuff as well but this 
 will work even if your compuer is an old dinosaur (but not a REALLY old one) but on newer machines 
 you will get a very nice framerate and you can pick this up very cheap (i got mine for 1 or $2 
 US money) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bravefaces
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Having played and beaten the entire Mechwarrior series, as well as a long list of flops from the 
 giant robot combat genre, I have found Heavy Gear II to be a superb game. It provides an in depth 
 world that immerses the player and offers a wealth of background information. Your squad mates' 
 biographies serve as the mode of transport for the world history, while they themselves serve as 
 excellent tools for completing missions. While a little more autonomy associated with each personality 
 could have been programmed into the game, your squadmates commentary makes up for the lack. 
  
  I find that the keyboard/ mouse controls are pretty intuitive, and far superior to the default 
 Mechwarrior layout. The configurability of each mech, including sensor packages, motors, weapons, 
 etc offers a level of re-playability that other FPS/ Mecha games are lacking. 
  
  The multiplayer is a good addition to the game; many hours were spent on the college campus LAN 
 playing against opponents. The biggest criticism for multiplayer is the use of homing mortars in 
 combination with the more powerful sensor package: in multiplayer, if an opponent has chosen that 
 combination, no other player can come close enough to fight said player, much less have time to 
 spawn and orient oneself before the massive, mech destroying barrage comes raining down.
  
  Altogether, Heavy Gear II is a fantastic game with lots of thought, great graphics for its time, 
 and fantastic action. I would like to see its like in a modern equivalent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickydrummer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  Even though not many people have played this game it is still worth the buy. The single player 
 for this game was surprisingly long and the multiplayer was awesome too. Also, there were many 
 things to customize in the game. They may as well have put a "click and drag" building engine because 
 your mech is totally customizable. You could probably go out and get the game for around 10 bucks 
 and its worth the buy. There were a few flaws in the game, one being that online some people would 
 just use lock on weapons and peg you from the air. Another thing is the weight limit in games, 
 sometimes you couldn't get your weight any lower and you wouldn't be able to join somebody else's 
 game. I give the game 2 thumbs up because the flaws aren't too dissapointing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
