-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heavy Gear
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/heavygear/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.0, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 174 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With the exception of its lacking originality, Heavy Gear contains all the elements of a successful 
 game and is certainly the finest game of its kind in many months. 

 So what if it lost FASA's Battletech license. That didn't stop Activision from turning out another 
 MechWarrior game, albeit disguised under a new brand name. Heavy Gear, based on Dream Pod 9's rival 
 anime-inspired giant robot pen-and-paper RPG, looks, sounds, and plays much like Activision's popular 
 MechWarrior games, putting you in command of a powerful mobile suit loaded with devastating weapons 
 and thick armor plating. Heavy Gear should have been an all-new game; Gears are much smaller than 
 Mechs, standing a mere four meters in height on the average. They're supposed to be fast and agile, 
 limited only by the flexibility and speed of their human pilots. But in Activision's game, you 
 become a slave to the war machine you thought was yours to command, much how you might have felt 
 in MechWarrior 2.  

 Heavy Gear looks sharp at first glance. Each Gear is rendered in careful detail and textured in 
 dark camouflage, lending these massive mobile suits a look even better than their distant BattleMech 
 cousins. Also gone is the flat, lifeless terrain of MechWarrior 2, replaced this time with rolling 
 hills and plenty of boulders, cacti, and other such obstacles that can be used as cover in the 
 heat of battle. At the same time, 3D accelerator owners can take advantage of enhanced frame rates 
 and special effects including flowing clouds, lighting, and transparent shadows. But with or without 
 a 3D accelerator, you'll certainly appreciate the unobtrusive green heads-up display, which readily 
 displays your status and weapons loadout while outlining your target in color-coded wire frame 
 to show how much damage he's sustained, and where. All this lets you keep a close eye on the enemy 
 rather than fumbling for function keys to call up the proper damage display in the middle of a 
 fight.  

 Unfortunately, further investigation yields that the graphics could have fared considerably better. 
 For one thing, in spite of the varied topography, a Gear always looks like it's walking straight 
 ahead - even as it scales a near-vertical hillside. This effect is more disorienting than, say, 
 the pixelated, bland-looking explosions that further detract from the game's aesthetic value. Moreover, 
 the effects of your Gear's various weapon systems look plain and, at best, leave much to the imagination. 
 A missed rifle shot that hits the earth merely vanishes, failing so much as to kick up a cloud 
 of dust. Should you actually hit an enemy Gear and knock it down, its fall looks slapstick rather 
 than slow and dramatic. The visual shortcomings of Heavy Gear go a long way to bring down its more 
 positive aesthetic qualities, lending an inconsistency to the game's look that takes getting used 
 to.  

 Thankfully, Heavy Gear's audio doesn't suffer the same faults as its visuals. From the bass-heavy 
 stomping of your Gear's legs as it rushes into battle to the metal-on-metal clank of your rifle 
 shots tearing into the enemy, you'll get a good feel for the combat through Heavy Gear's sound. 
 All the while, a stirring, percussion-heavy synth-orchestral soundtrack adds that epic feel to 
 each and every battle. But strangely enough, this soundtrack sounds rather like the scores that 
 added so much atmosphere to MechWarrior 2 and Mercenaries. This big nod to Activision's previous 
 future simulators turns out to be only the first of many.  

 For all intents and purposes, Heavy Gear plays just like MechWarrior 2. Mech veterans will have 
 an easy time making the switch over to Gears, what with no longer having to worry about overheating 
 or any such complications. Otherwise, even though Gears are supposed to be many times more maneuverable 
 than Mechs, Heavy Gear feels almost as lethargic as did the Mech games at their worst. Other opportunities 
 to capitalize on the smaller, faster humanoid Gear design were likewise passed up. A Gear can only 
 carry a single handheld gun while the other arm dangles uselessly at its side; close-range melee 
 weapons, which appear in the pen-and-paper RPG, are conspicuously absent. Gears can crouch, but 
 they need to come to a dead halt first, which is a lot more trouble than it's worth most of the 
 time. Likewise, Gears can sidestep, but this is only a trivial addition considering they can twist 
 180 degrees at the torso. Other elements of gameplay fare better; for instance, you can pick up 
 spare weapons from the battlefield should yours run out of ammo. Each Gear has wheels, letting 
 you move quickly from point to point or escape from battle in a pinch. Gears also have their own 
 AI, which means you learn enhanced abilities as you progress through the game. A powerful blow 
 will knock a Gear clean off its feet, leaving it vulnerable until it manages to clamber back to 
 a standing position. A vast armory including missile racks, rifles, energy weapons, and hand grenades 
 will keep you guessing on the battlefield and will get you thinking as you try to design the ultimate 
 Gear from one of over a dozen stock chassises through the convenient drag-and-drop interface in 
 the Gear Engineering Lab.  

 Heavy Gear offers two well-designed solo play modes, the first being a linear story composed of 
 nearly three dozen missions. The story unfolds through beautifully rendered cutscenes in between 
 missions and over radio communication during the missions themselves. The missions continue to 
 surprise and contain enough variety to hold interest through to the story's conclusion. Throughout 
 these missions, the computer-controlled opponents will have you outnumbered - but probably not 
 outclassed. The AI has a bad habit of shooting straight at you rather than leading its shots, making 
 torso-twist strafing runs unusually effective. And while the AI deserves a bit of praise for trying 
 to use cover to its advantage, you'll be hard pressed to stifle a chuckle the first time you see 
 an opposing Gear blow itself up by walking into a boulder. Nevertheless, the computer will provide 
 a competent challenge if only because of its superior numbers, especially since you can't rely 
 on your inept squad mates to get you out of a pinch. Even when you finish with the story mode, 
 you'll find plenty to like in the less structured but equally enjoyable tour-of-duty game, which 
 allows you to handpick your missions as you rise through the ranks on either side of a civil war. 
 This mode offers a vast scope of the conflict as one side gradually takes the advantage over supplies, 
 intelligence, and sheer numbers. But before you leap headlong into warfare, you'll want to run 
 through the helpful training exercises, which will whip you into fighting shape within an hour 
 or so.  

 After winning your virtual war, you'll probably want to try your skills against your friends. Fortunately, 
 Heavy Gear comes equipped with Internet multiplayer support right out of the box. Unfortunately, 
 Activision makes it little secret that Heavy Gear's Internet play option is in an unfinished beta 
 form. Glitches and crashes abound both in the menu screen and during actual multiplayer gameplay, 
 though you'll probably get a game going with a little perseverance. Promises of a patch don't change 
 the fact that an important component of this product was allowed to ship in an incomplete form, 
 no doubt to make the Christmas rush. At least Heavy Gear's solo play modes don't suffer from the 
 same glaring hang-ups.  

 With the exception of its lacking originality, Heavy Gear contains all the elements of a successful 
 game and is certainly the finest game of its kind in many months. Of course, it's also the only 
 game of its kind to be published in many months, which makes it a definite buy for those yearning 
 for more giant robots since last year's Mercenaries. Its similarities to MechWarrior 2 and Mercenaries 
 ensure that fans of those games will also enjoy Heavy Gear. At the same time, its similarities 
 represent a missed opportunity to create an all-new product centered around a new kind of vehicle 
 design. Instead, Heavy Gear feels very derivative right down to its soundtrack and ironic intro, 
 with only a handful of new gameplay features on top of a superior story mode and the enjoyable 
 tour of duty. Heavy Gear will keep most mech sim fans busy for a good while, much of which will 
 be spent wondering why it didn't have the courage to break from its roots.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Viltry
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  may be lacking in the graphics department, but also the game is 10 years old now... other than it 
 it is great, possibly one of the best soundtracks in a game. there are also so many factors which 
 have affected not only modern mech games but any FPS game. i have had this game since it first 
 came out and i still play it, its got a great story story line which is set in an even greater 
 setting, and even after the campaign there is some instant action style gameplay and of course 
 it has multiplayer, although it is too old now to find a gaming communtiy for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  I will cut right to the chase here. Heavy Gear was a game released in 1997, that, for the most 
 part, was created by Activision to combat their loss of the Mech Warrior franchise. This original 
 Heavy Gear game had such a large presence on me as a boy, and it still creates a warm tingle in 
 my heart. The game is defiantly old-school in it's approach, and compared to the games of now, 
 a very different experience.
  
  Heavy Gear is a Robot Simulation from Activision, the team that brought us MechWarrior 2. From 
 now I'll admit that for me, and for anyone trying to pick up the game today, it's quite hard to 
 get into, and control, especially in an era that relies so strongly on WASD. The game focuses on 
 the mouse for turning the torso and upwards, while the legs are controlled with the arrow keys. 
 This isn't necessarily a good thing, and I had to remap a number of controls to get it feeling 
 as though I have control over my whereabouts - however, once you have control over you're controls, 
 the game handles quite well.
  
  You are a Gear, a mech type unit, deployed in open fields, and soon as you get control over the 
 gear, you'll notice how much less moveable it is compared to a FPS, but also far more malleable 
 than Mechs from MechWarrior. Missions usually consist of patrolling different outdoor areas, whether 
 they're snowy, dusty and deserty, or grassy, and completing missions like blowing up bases, calling 
 in Air-Strikes or defending areas for a certain time. The enemies aren't too smart, but when there 
 are four or five gears on you're case you begin to get into some trouble.
  
  The game consists of two game modes. The first is Story mode. This is the primary campaign where 
 I had the bulk of my good fun and memories. Here, you take control of Senior Duelist Edward Scott, 
 a soldier on the side of the Northern Guard. An endless and useless war ravages on between the 
 Northern Guard and Southern Milicia, and this point returns a number of times during the story.
 
  
  What makes the campaign so fun is it's incredibly interesting cinematics, that are filmed in full 
 motion video, and truly captures the presence of war. The game's actors are surprisingly decent, 
 and the characters are well fleshed out, bar maybe the main protagonist, who mainly appears to 
 be the same hero in every story, however he's a great guy to root for. The story will be the main 
 reason why one should continue through this campaign, as the plot just keeps turning and twisting, 
 and surprises arise around every corner. Death, betrayal, misunderstanding, revenge, duty; these 
 are all major themes during the game, and without spoiling too much, you'll be wondering by the 
 end who the real bad guys are.
  
  This story has taken me on some great memories in the past. This game has just so much in it, and 
 makes you really want to fight, it makes you feel as if you have you're back against the wall and 
 you're shooting at everyone around you. It's a great feeling, and not one FMV video is wasted - 
 they all progress the storyline, and add to the drama.
  
  The second campaign mode is Tour of Duty, which is more of an open Sandbox mode, where you can 
 choose you're own faction (North or South) , as well as choose you're regiment. Just as in the story 
 mode, you can then progress to create you're Gear, and earn stars and medallions. You choose from 
 one of the set General objective modes, and are then thrown into the game to complete the mission. 
 You're stats are stored, and you then earn rewards and earnings. This mode seems rather tacked 
 on, but a secondary game mode is nothing to complain about, as the story mode is more than enough 
 to keep you going for the game's worth.
  
  The games Gear creation mode is very fine. You can create a Gear with any combination of arms, 
 legs, torso, head, and engine and all come with perks and flaws. Some feature great armour, but 
 severely hinder you're speed. Engines can boost this up, but not without weight cost. You can take 
 an in depth look at each part and choose seperate pieces of equipment such as Low-Light and infrared 
 for the head piece, and armour reduction for the torso. You can then proceed to choose new weapons, 
 missiles, and lasers, that can all be used for you're startling artillery. This can all be changed 
 on the fly, and you can edit you're Gear between missions.
  
  In game, based on you're Gear stats and you're enemies effectiveness, you can effectively fight 
 in a whole different matter. You're rockets can do some mean damage quickly, but be sure to take 
 aim first, as they fly fast, and you usually have a limited supply of them. With you're normal 
 weapons, do you decide to aim for the torso, and destroy the Gear flat out, or do you go for the 
 legs, practically killing the enemy, but are still considered a threat. The enemy can too hit you 
 in the same ways, and it's astonishing the number of times you have to start a mission again because 
 you have no legs.
  
  This brings me to my next point. There are no save points. It's finish the mission, or start it 
 again. Some of the missions can take quite a bit of time to finish, and you'll have to risk a lot 
 to finish some, but it feels rewarding when you do, especially if it comes with a cinematic.
  
  It appears that Heavy Gear couldn't get enough of their brilliant story, so much so they even 
 decided to incorperate one into their Training campaign, and because of this factor alone, I'm 
 going to discuss it. The four or five training missions are quite straight forward in their approach. 
 They teach you the different important features in the game, without sacrificing immersion. The 
 training days begin with you, Cadet, under the orders of a grim and angry Drill Instructor. She 
 is you're superior however, so you never speak back to her. She has a grudge against you, for reasons 
 unknown, and the other Trainee, Timmins, appears to be the Teacher's Pet.
  
  Over the course of the training excersises you not only have to prove you yourself you can do it, 
 but prove to the Instructor too how good you are. You'll have to race Timmins to Nav Points, Race 
 Timmins to Targets, Race Timmins to Air Strike Points, and as a final stage, fight Timmins to a 
 10 hit-count. It's great fun. The Training Stage is more than just to teach you the gameplay, it 
 extends the game too. By the time you're done you'll feel rewarded, satisfied, and ready to get 
 down to some serious business. This is what Training Campaigns should be like.
  
  The graphics are not much to look at in a time like now. They're still passable, but only barely. 
 At the time however, they were excellent, and featured some of the best outdoor environments games 
 could offer. The mountains sprawled across the landscape, the Gears looked cool, shuddered when 
 they moved, and smoked and crippled when they're legs were blown off.
  
  Heavy Gear is not for everyone. It's now, whether the developers intended it or not, a game made 
 for people who can overlook problems, graphical glitches, and bugs, to see the wider picture of 
 what a game should be like. As the title suggests, this is not a game to be messed with, and through 
 the story mode, the training mode, and to a degree, Tour of Duty, it really shines through and 
 proves that one can make a great Mech Simulation, and still doesn't start with the words Mech Warrior. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
