-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heavy Metal: F.A.K.K. 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/heavymetalfakk2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 10, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 8.0, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 329 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Ritual Ent.
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     Aug 6, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it has some interesting sequences, and can be really enjoyable at times, more often F. A. K. K. 
 2 merely seems like the framework for a much better game. 

 Heavy Metal F. A. K. K. 2 is evidently the work of ambitious designers. The game attempts to combine 
 the best elements of several genres: It looks like a third-person action game, begins like a role-playing 
 game, plays like a platform game, and uses both first-person shooter conventions and fighting-game 
 elements in its combat system. Unfortunately, the game hardly ever goes beyond the surface of any 
 of its influences. What's worse, it's short, unstable, and the control is unresponsive. And while 
 F. A. K. K. 2 does have some interesting sequences and can be really enjoyable at times, more often 
 it merely seems like the framework for a much better game.   

  F. A. K. K. 2 takes place 30 years after Heavy Metal 2000, the animated film on which it's based. 
 The main character, Julie, and her companions have taken residence on Eden, a planet with magical 
 water that keeps the residents from aging. Though a large energy shield protects the planet, strange 
 things are happening, like an invasion of malevolent bugs. And it soon becomes clear that a greater 
 invasion is imminent. There is some semblance of a continuous story throughout the first third 
 of the game, and it initially keeps the action interesting.   

  The game is broken into three parts. The first is the best, in which you (as Julie) wander around 
 your city, talk to your neighbors, and perform various tasks for them in exchange for equipment. 
 Though it could have used better dialogue and some more meaningful quests, this open-ended section 
 is a good way to set up the challenges that lie ahead, and Ritual Entertainment did a good job 
 of making Julie's home seem like a living city. Once the siege begins and the city gets ransacked, 
 the game gets even better - you'll need to find creative ways to defeat seemingly invincible foes 
 in a few key scripted sequences. Finally, you'll be sent to the swamps of Eden to begin your quest 
 for the Heart of the We, a mystical artifact that can put an end to the threat.   

  Things start to fall apart in this swamp, which makes up the second part of the game. F. A. K. K. 
 2 aspires to have exciting platform-jumping sequences, but it can't compare with the best games 
 in this style. In platform games such as Super Mario 64 and Rayman 2, your tasks gradually get 
 more complicated, as you must find new and innovative ways to use the tools at your disposal. In 
 F. A. K. K. 2, the jumps just get harder. The second part of the game consists almost entirely of 
 jumping puzzles, and they get tedious.   

  They also get frustrating, because F. A. K. K. 2's control leaves a lot to be desired. Precise jumping 
 sequences require precise control - but controlling Julie seems more like driving a hovercraft. 
 She'll slide off objects when she turns, get stuck on obstacles, and generally bounce around in 
 aggravating ways. What makes the second part of the game even more disappointing is the complete 
 lack of character interaction that helped make the first section seem more substantial than most 
 third-person action games.   

  Fortunately, the third part of F. A. K. K. 2 is better than the second, perhaps because the level 
 design is more diverse and the jumping puzzles are less monotonous. However, the story has all 
 but disappeared by this time - you merely have to perform a series of nonsensical tasks in four 
 elemental environments - but these environments are good looking, and the levels are interesting. 
 The final boss battle is also satisfying, and the boss itself looks impressive.    

 In fact, much of the time, F. A. K. K. 2's saving grace is its visuals. The locales always look good, 
 though they aren't always inspired - for instance, you'll have to work your way through a generic 
 factory, full of pistons and conveyors that seemingly do nothing. The game's characters and landscapes 
 are highly detailed, and the developers also did a great job of rendering outdoor areas with id 
 Software's Quake III engine.   

  The monsters you'll face also look good, though there aren't many of them. You'll fight the same 
 creatures again and again, and the only difference will be slight variations in their strength 
 and attacks. You might initially face a particular enemy as a boss, then once you get more powerful 
 weapons, you'll start seeing that same enemy all the time. This repetition wouldn't be so bad if 
 the combat were more fun.   

  F. A. K. K. 2 has both ranged and melee weapons, and you can use both at once. What's great about 
 the game's combat is that you can hold a weapon in either hand and use any combination of swords 
 and guns that suits you. It's an unusual idea, and when it works, it can be really effective. Unfortunately, 
 ammo is in short supply on Eden, so you'll typically end up using only your melee weapons. That's 
 not necessarily a problem - the melee weapons are great, as well as intuitive and fun to use. The 
 problem is that you'll often be faced with so many enemies that the more complex melee moves (each 
 sword/gun pairing produces a slightly different combo attack) become virtually useless. You'll 
 frequently find yourself just swinging your sword wildly until an area is clear. And the game's 
 collision detection seems inconsistent, which often makes hitting monsters more a matter of luck 
 than skill.   

  But if there's one major problem with F. A. K. K. 2, it's that it seems unfinished. The game is rather 
 short, and you could speculate that this is either because the developers had to coordinate with 
 the movie's release on video, or even because some of the game's content was eventually cut. After 
 all, the game has little in common with the Heavy Metal comic and film source material, which is 
 known for its adult content. Ultimately, if you're lucky enough to not encounter F. A. K. K. 2's numerous 
 technical problems, it will likely take you under ten hours to get through the whole game and probably 
 half that to get through it a second time.   

  The technical problems are worth mentioning in further detail. On every one of the three different 
 test machines we used to play the game, it crashed consistently, if sporadically. It crashed when 
 we saved, loaded, paused, and quit. It crashed when too many creatures were on screen. The crashes 
 were always serious, requiring hard reboots.   

  These technical problems, in addition to its short length and inconsistent quality, make Heavy 
 Metal F. A. K. K. 2 the most frustrating kind of game: It's only decent, when it could have been great. 
 The designers are clearly talented, as the game has enough original ideas and unique sequences 
 that suggest how much better the entire game could have been, given more time. But instead, F. A. K. K. 
 2 seems unfinished and unrefined. Apparently, it just goes to show that the old expression about 
 haircuts applies to games as well - sometimes the difference between a bad one and a good one is 
 just a few weeks.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: OttoNL
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  Sweet-ass game, dunno why people don't like it, its tomb-raider game style in the quake 3 engine, 
 you can have 1 uzi in 1 hand and a flaming sword in the other and wipe loads of creatures comming 
 your way
  its the most fun i've ever had in hack and slash games, and its even got a story
  it also includes some puzzling and some easy trickjumping
  if you liked the tomb raider games 
 (a bit) but are a real Quake-based-games-freak like me you'll probably love it
  Ok, its a bit oldschool by now, but its still a hell lotta fun, and the camera is always pointed 
 towards her butt xD (and yes like tomb raider there's a nude patch for the ppl that like it)
  I managed to find me 1 copy in europe that was for sale, so i bought it asap, the 5 dollars it 
 costs now is Definitely worth it
  Some parts are a bit tricky tho, but there are more then enough walktroughs and youll eventually 
 find most ways out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quitgreedy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  This game proves its not all about grapics. With any game its content, content, content.
  HM fakk2 has a real fun tomb raider feel with it. With out the impossible jumps and almost completely 
 hidden exits.
  The main character Julie plays perfectly into the orignal movie mind set.
  Sexy and a great fighter.
  
  Grapics powered by QUAKE 3 grapics engine, This means it plays 
 w/ great frame rates and is totally stable. Coupled with todays Processer it boots and quick loads 
 in a snap. :)
  
  The characters are clunky, but the voices carry well and pulls off the story line with out much 
 sacrifice.
  
  Weapons O plenty. Swords to killer chain guns and a dash of explosives.
  This is a 3rd person game. Meaning you see your player, not just the gun as in 1st person players. 
 Believe me you want to see Julie and watch her kick butt on the enemy.
  
  Once rolling in the game, the music gets in you. . Every item you pick up has distinct sound that 
 rolls through your sub woofer. You forget alot about detail and find yourself exploring and or 
 jamming to the metal music while fighting swamp creatures. 
  Fighting is a easy learning curve. Once mastered, it is very satisfying using Julies trick moves 
 to take out the creatures.
  
  It is now 2008 and i just got it out for my 8 &12 year old girls. 
  All of us were shocked how 
 this 8 year old game still had legs to carry it in todays grapic driven CPU munchin games. My two 
 girls have played it twice in a row and want to find another similar game. or the second version.
 
  You like us will wish there was another installment to continue the fun and mayhem.
  
  Oh yeah. Julie outfits get sexier and sexier as the game roll on.
  Rock on. :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scaper-X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  So I'm looking through My Collection and trying to recall what I haven't added yet. I recall a 
 few golden oldies like Super Solvers: Midnight Rescue until my mind settles on Heavy Metal FAKK 
 2. I wholly adored this game. Downloaded the demo the moment it became available and played the 
 hell out of it. However, I didn't get the game. I'm guessing others distracted me and I forgot 
 about it.
  
  It wasn't long ago that I happened upon it in the economy gaming section of CompUSA or someplace. 
 Instantly, the insanely catchy menu music snuck into my head. I believe I beat it in a matter of 
 a day's time. While a little short, the game had a very enjoyable and immersive environment, intense 
 action gameplay, and a quality soundtrack to boot.
  
  Immediately upon recalling the title, I realized I hadn't installed it upon my PC - only my laptop. 
 Itching to hear the main theme, "Heavy Metal Fire", once again, I did some brief Wayback Machine 
 searching, only to find the sites that had the track for download had long died. However, a forum 
 post suggested taking a peek inside the .pk3 files for the .mp3s. A quick installation, an easy 
 directory search, and I had extracted the music. I guess I don't need to say what's playing on 
 my WinAMP currently.
  
  I fear there's little future for this title, lest someone at Gathering Of Developers gets reminiscent 
 of the game and proposes its return. The story absolutely begged a sequel. Hopefully it won't join 
 the ranks of Duke Nukem Forever and Fallout 3 - either in indefinite hold or discontinued due to 
 copyright ownership, respectively.
  
  Considering another run through the Heavy Metal FAKK 2 world,
  -- Scaper-X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I am working on my back log of games, so I finished this one, Heavy Metal: F. A. K. K. 2. This is 
 a pretty nice game for its time. Nowadays, 2005, the graphics don't hold up and the gameplay doesn't 
 hold up. Julie is slowly putting on more revealing outfits, which gives me that Lara Croft feeling, 
 although Julie definately is more sexy (for a blocky character :) ) . On the game, I already said 
 it was short, the game offers nice enough visuals and audio. And it even starts with giving you 
 a feeling you are in a city. The two handed system is a bit confusing at times and quick switching 
 weapons is just a bit of a pain, although I got used to it. This is also one of the first shooters 
 that I played that has decent melee, although the defense postures were never used by me. Circle-strafing 
 melee is an ok tactic. 
  
  Definately a bargain-bin recommendation, and this will run smoothly on older machines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Inspired by comics and animated movie with adult content, FAKK2 surprises by being a very fun game 
 with a few innovative features (although many of them are not used to their full extent) . The demo 
 of FAKK2 promised the full game to be especially well-balanced and challenging, but unfortunately 
 for the final release difficulty was toned down. New enemies, better weapons and environments were 
 added, many of them did not add to but took away from the depth of combat tactics, especially so 
 in the large arenas at the end of the game. One of the most-interesting things about FAKK2 is its 
 two-hand weapon system, allowing Julie to use two lighter weapons at the time. Although she finds 
 ridiculously many weapons during the game, mostly you will have sword in the right and the shield 
 in the left hand. As for the better side of FAKK2, a lot of the game takes place in Julie's home-town 
 Eden with logically unfolding events triggered by Julie's going to a certain area, quite unlike 
 ramping in abstract caves that gamers are used to. The array of moves Julie performs (hanging, 
 climbing pipes horizontally and bringing legs up, swinging ropes etc) is so good to look at that 
 there could have even been more such puzzles. Her energy bar is a nice touch too: it needs to be 
 at certain level to use long distance weapons and determines how well-protected she is. Did I mention 
 that she looks gorgeous and that there's heavy metal music playing in the menus? :) Overall, FAKK2 
 makes for an enjoyable action game with attitude.
  
  16/20 - Based on : 20 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - It's an old game, but the looks are completely saved by the virtual Julie 
 Strain - the main character. 
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - A little more complicated than your average 3rd person game, but has good tutorials.
 
  2/4 PACING - Obviously ran out of time developing it. Compared to the well-balanced and challenging 
 demo, the last third of the game is spent on uselessly large arenas.
  3/4 INNOVATION - There's some of it in the fighting and shielding mechanics, but it's really the 
 concept not the gameplay mechanics that makes FAKK2 cool..
  3/4 IMMERSION - Julie Strain who plays the girl is an adult actress btw and now for quite some 
 time a photographer; also a judge on Sex Court (Playboy TV) . The Queen of All Media they call her 
 :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
