-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heaven & Hell
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heavenandhell/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  9, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 4.5, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 70 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: MadCat Interactive
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Aug 31, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There are a few decent concepts in the game, but they aren't enough to make it recommendable.

  Heaven &amp; Hell is a strategy game that plays on the you-are-a-god theme in the same vein as 
 Black &amp; White and Populous. As a god, your goal is to convert followers to your side by impressing 
 or intimidating the local population. While some unique gimmicks and solid gameplay have made other 
 god games fun to play, these elements are curiously absent from Heaven &amp; Hell, leaving it a 
 short, and otherwise dull, experience.  

          Heaven &amp; Hell is a god game in the same vein as Populous and Black &amp; White.    

  There are two sides in Heaven &amp; Hell: good and evil. It's not surprising that these are the 
 warring factions in a god game, but what is surprising is that both sides are, more or less, exactly 
 the same. There are, of course, palette swaps and a few different spell names, but the two sides 
 are, nonetheless, functionally equivalent. So it makes no difference, whatsoever, in picking your 
 sides. It's not as if you have this problem when playing the campaign -- as you can only start off 
 on the good side. Once you finish the good campaign, you can move onto the evil campaign. Since 
 both sides are carbon copies of each other, you may wonder what the point is in playing another 
 campaign that's virtually identical.  

  The core mechanics of Heaven &amp; Hell are pretty straightforward. Each map has a set number of 
 cities with inhabitants. Each village has an overall "belief" in you, and each villager has a personal 
 belief rating that you must influence by using a variety of prophets that you create from existing 
 believers. When villagers' beliefs are high enough, you can convert them to your side by using 
 the main prophet. There are other prophets who act as aids to the main prophet. One prophet recruits 
 soldiers -- soldiers who will fight enemy prophets and bully nonbelievers -- while another prophet 
 builds structures to attract villagers.  

  Your main resource in the game is mana. You gain mana by having followers and by converting houses 
 into mana producers. Mana is used to cast spells and to upgrade houses. Mana is also used to cast 
 god powers, which you can use to help sway the soon-to-be followers. You can call down lightning 
 to smite enemy prophets, or you can create an earthquake to damage enemy facilities. You can also 
 pat villagers on the head, when operating on the good side, or you can smack them around when on 
 the evil side. This is actually the only major difference between the two sides. It seems kind 
 of strange that the good side still uses soldiers to intimidate villagers, and that's one of the 
 early disappointing aspects about Heaven &amp; Hell.  

  Heaven &amp; Hell just doesn't have enough to it to make the game fun to play. There are a limited 
 number of god powers you can use, so you don't have too much direct control over the world. You 
 must, therefore, rely on your prophets to influence the world. Each prophet has a couple of uses, 
 but some of the prophets aren't useful at all. For example, the spy prophet can camouflage himself 
 as a bush and sneak into a base. However, since you can see the enemy prophet camouflaged as a 
 bush -- and since you receive a warning whenever one steals your mana -- the spy prophet is essentially 
 rendered useless.  

  Controlling the few useful prophets in the game becomes a chore in itself. The game has a left-click 
 interface, whereby left-clicking both selects and gives orders. So if you're trying to select a 
 new prophet, you may inadvertently move the one you've already selected. Right-clicking deselects 
 units, but that button also calls down god powers. So if you had lightning selected, you may accidentally 
 electrocute your own followers instead of deselecting a prophet. Pathfinding in the game is pretty 
 bad as well. Prophets will gingerly walk through opposing towns, and soldiers will often walk past 
 moving targets before reacquiring them. It makes combat even worse than it already is.  

  That's not to say that there aren't some good ideas in the game. You can choose to have a limited, 
 active role in taking over a village. Strong believers of the opposing side will throw rocks at 
 your prophets, so you'll need to combine a few of them to succeed in converting such strong and 
 resistant opposition. If you prefer, however, you can pick up rock-throwers and dump them on the 
 other side of the map so your prophets can perform their jobs without harm. If you're in a pinch 
 for mana, you can pick up your own followers and dump them directly into heaven or hell. You'll 
 be rewarded with a small amount of mana, but the "juiced villager" is replaced by a child. A child 
 cannot be turned into a prophet until he or she grows up -- and then becomes easier to influence 
 and convert. There is also a day/night cycle. Spells cast in the nighttime cost more, when on the 
 good side, while spells cast in the daytime cost more, when on the evil side.  

  The AI is a pushover -- even when set at a difficulty level of "hard." It will attack the same village 
 over and over again. Your main strategy in the game is to upgrade several buildings in one village 
 to "motivators," which raises the default belief of the villagers. Your followers will eventually 
 become those fanatics who throw rocks at enemy prophets. You can then leave that village to its 
 own devices, as the computer will constantly send in its prophets -- only to lose them. You can then 
 leisurely complete the mission's goals.  

          You'd think there would be more of a difference between being good and being evil in a 
 game like this.     

  Skirmish mode plays exactly the same as the campaigns, but you probably won't want to even bother. 
 When you start a game, all of the villages are neutral, and you can see where the computer creates 
 a prophet. You can then create your own prophet in the same city to prevent the computer from converting 
 anyone. The computer isn't smart enough to use the "pickup" god power to move villagers into its 
 preaching range, nor is it smart enough to move anyone who's listening to your own prophet's sermon. 
 Sometimes the computer just sits there and doesn't do anything during a random game. You probably 
 won't find much of a challenge in multiplayer, either, as there doesn't appear to be anyone playing 
 this game online.  

  There isn't much to the graphics or sound that will keep you playing the game. It's colorful and 
 seems like it could be a good-looking game, but the unit animations are substandard. Villagers 
 don't really do anything, other than just stand around. There are graphical glitches in the game 
 as well. There are cutscenes between missions, but the videos stutter, so you'll probably skip 
 them. The background music is pretty good, but the rest of the sounds aren't notable.  

  It's too bad that Heaven &amp; Hell has so many problems. God games need to be especially well 
 designed and fun to play since you don't have direct control over what goes on in the world. You 
 must, instead, watch as your will is carried out by other characters. Unfortunately, this is Heaven 
 &amp; Hell's weak point -- there's not much to do or see. There are a few decent concepts in the 
 game, but they aren't enough to make it recommendable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Getting ones teeth drilled at the dentist is never a pleasant experience. You try everything you 
 can to avoid having it happen but in the end it always does. After spending a few weeks with Heaven 
 & Hell it can be concluded that playing this game is a lot like having your teeth drilled; a most 
 painful experience that you just want to end.
  
  Heaven & Hell is played with you in the big boss chair as a god. In the Heaven & Hell universe 
 there are only really two sides to the conflict; good and evil. You can only choose one side, the 
 good side, initially but it doesnt really matter since both sides are exactly the same. There 
 are visual differences such as the colors and style of the buildings. Also, the outfits that your 
 religious subjects wear differ but as far as gameplay mechanics go they are identical.
  
  I wasnt impressed at all with the single player portion of the game. Each mission had the same 
 objective as the mission before; convert the heathens. Sometimes they threw a curve ball and had 
 you destroy some buildings first or even survive one or two attacks but when that was all over 
 you had to simply convert the non-believers to your side. This repetitiveness got tiring very quickly 
 and I often found myself falling asleep at the computer forcing myself to keep going.
  
  As was said before, the main objective in the game is to convert the heathens to your own beliefs. 
 To do this you have to raise their belief in you to a certain level. This is accomplished by using 
 one or a combination of several prophets. Said prophets can summon miracles, fight off enemy prophets, 
 build amusement facilities to entertain the non-believers (and therefore have them believe you 
 are the better god) and theres even a covert prophet that can do sabotage work on enemy structures. 
 Some of the prophets are quite useful like Baptisbon and Beat-Up O-Bon while others such as Camelbon 
 I rarely found a use for. The latter prophets do have a purpose but sometimes its so completely 
 ineffective to even bother using them.
  
  To assist your prophets you have powers that are always at your disposal. You can pick up civilians 
 and place them anywhere on the map, cause earthquakes, and even smite your enemies with lightning 
 from the skies provided you have enough mana, the games resource. Mana production is affected 
 by how many people believe in you at any given time. The more people believe in you, the faster 
 your resources will grow, if you are the unpopular god in town then your mana production will lag 
 behind. In addition there are production buildings that can be built which facilitate the proliferation 
 of mana. They can be upgraded and the result is even faster mana production, this is essential 
 in the later levels when mana demands are atrocious.
  
  The other type of building (yes there are only two types of buildings in the game) is the loyalty 
 enforcer building. Prophets can cause miracles to increase the belief of the citizens of a city 
 but the buildings themselves are much more effective. The more of these buildings you have in any 
 given city the higher the base belief level of the citizens. There is even a belief level at which 
 point the citizens will turn into fanatics which in turn hurtle rocks at enemy prophets or soldiers 
 that enter the village. Once you have the loyalty of the entire city at this fanatic level it can 
 pretty much defend itself and you can concentrate on other aspects of playing.
  
  Graphics-wise, Heaven & Hell is nothing to shout about. The textures are plain and generic and 
 not much stands out that will please the eye. There are movies in between the missions and in the 
 startup of the game but the animation skips frequently. Units that traverse the map often leave 
 small graphic watermarks on the ground behind them, specifically the health bar. The sound isnt 
 much of a redeeming quality either. Like the graphics it skips horrendously during the movies. 
 The individual units have a few sayings but they are repeated ad-nausea and get soon get tiring.
 
  
  The AI is not a force to be reckoned with really. The enemy will send its prophets, even on the 
 hardest difficulty setting, scattered and not in a central group. They can easily be isolated and 
 picked apart by your warriors. One of the most annoying parts of the game is the fact that warriors 
 cannot attack moving targets. To kill a prophet they have to be standing completely still. This 
 works to your advantage when youre under attack but it is frustratingly hard to kill the enemy 
 prophets sometimes.
  
  There is a skirmish mode where you can generate a random map to play the computer and there is 
 also a multiplayer feature so you can go head to head with other virtual demi-gods. All things 
 considered though theres no reason to try either of these out as you will probably get your fill 
 of the game from both, if not one, of the campaigns.
  
  Heaven & Hell had a nice concept but it was just pulled off all wrong. More timid gamers and bargain 
 bin hunters might pick this title up in a few weeks but I wouldnt expect your average strategy 
 gamer to lay down the cash for this one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vovan
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 12, 2003 5:24 pm PT
Review:  To make a long story short, the game is cute, but nothing more. The concept in and of itself isn't 
 particularly innovative and certainly does hold a great deal of potential. The first impression 
 I, at least, had was that it was going to be a good game: the cartoony graphics give you a certain 
 atmosphere that definitely works in this context. Unfortunetely, there isn't much gameplay to back 
 up the good-looking front end. While there is a great variety of different peoples you can convert 
 to your side, and each of the "nations" has its own flavour, there aren't really many ways you 
 can go about increasing your following. It seems that the developers brought a variety to the wrong 
 part of the game. So after about an hour of enjoyment, the experience becomes monotonous and fairly 
 boring. Quite a pity really, the graphics do really look good. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
