-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hegemonia: Legions of Iron
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/hegemonialegionsofiron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.0, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 407 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Digital Reality
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 13, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hegemonia's solid, innovative gameplay and technically impressive graphics may seem very appealing 
 to space strategy fans, but it's too bad that the game isn't more accessible and more polished. 
 

 What's in a name? In the case of Hegemonia: Legions of Iron, it sets the tone for a game that's 
 solid in concept -- though one that isn't particularly accessible to those who don't read the manual 
 and that never loses its European accent, even though Dreamcatcher did drop the "a" from "Haegemonia" 
 for the US release. Hegemonia may look a lot like Homeworld and the recently released O. R. B., but 
 it doesn't conform completely to the kind of conventions that these 3D space strategy games set. 
 The game trades tactical depth for broad strategy, much like the developer's Imperium Galactica 
 space empire games. However, Hegemonia is essentially the first real-time space empire game that 
 lets you sit down and play a quick multiplayer match. But while this hybrid concept mostly works 
 well, the game suffers from a lack of polish and from stripped-down combat balance.           Hegemonia 
 gives you a beautiful view of various star systems.    

  It's not often that we see a real-time strategy game that's both solid and unconventional. But 
 Hegemonia didn't just appear out of nowhere. It's been well over two years since Digital Reality 
 produced Imperium Galactica II, which distinguished itself from classic space empire games like 
 Master of Orion with a heavily scripted, story-based campaign and with effective real-time mechanics. 
 Elements of Hegemonia's presentation, particularly on the strategic overview screen and in the 
 colony management screens, are highly reminiscent of Imperium Galactica II, but certainly the pacing, 
 missions, and combat are all more like what you'd expect in a traditional real-time strategy game. 
   

  One of the most appealing things about a 3D space strategy game is the ability to lead sizable 
 space fleets into 3D battles. Like Relic's groundbreaking game Homeworld, Hegemonia has a robust 
 graphics engine that lets spaceships fly not only along a 2D plane, but anywhere in 3D space. In 
 Hegemonia's case, this feature isn't all that important for getting a tactical or strategic advantage, 
 but it does make the game's setting much more believable -- the game's excellent graphics help make 
 you feel as though you're actually fighting battles in the middle of outer space.   

  All of Hegemonia's maps are composed of at least one big, impressive-looking star system, complete 
 with a star that will burn up your ships if you get too close, plus a number of planets set in 
 concentric orbits. The single-player game starts off quite specifically in Earth's solar system. 
 You can choose to start the game playing on the side of either Earth or Mars; according to the 
 game's story, the two planets are at war. The fact that the game has three species -- the humans, 
 kariak, and darzok -- is one clue that this early human war doesn't last much longer than a series 
 of tutorial missions, but even in later missions, having to defend the solar system and its easily 
 recognizable planets does make success seem more urgent.   

  Hegemonia's missions are heavily scripted around story events. This helps keep the campaign from 
 devolving into simple wipe-out-the-enemy missions, and even when conquest becomes your eventual 
 goal, you'll still go through a good variety of steps to get there, like having to first protect 
 a spy or destroy enemy production ships. There are a few missions with secondary objectives that 
 can provide an additional ship or a hero that can come in handy, but they're generally an exception. 
 The main problem with the scripted missions is that the specific objectives aren't always clear 
 from the briefing, and at the start of the game, it's easy to miss the list of objectives that's 
 on the initially unimportant empire information screen. We encountered a couple of frustrating 
 scripting bugs that forced us to retry missions without ever knowing what had gone wrong the first 
 time. It also doesn't help that, while there are a few good plot developments, the game's talkative 
 characters are quite drab. The talking-head sequences feature lots of generally comprehensible 
 but awkward English with occasional French and German expressions.           The lighting and weapon 
 effects are particularly impressive.    

  Hegemonia hasn't made any strides past Homeworld's innovative gameplay structure in making it easier 
 to make precise ship movements in 3D, but fortunately, the game rarely requires any sort of precision. 
 Travel between systems is accomplished via wormholes, not tricky hyperspace jumps, and every map 
 has lots of landmarks that can be moved to directly with a right-click, rather than by manual control. 
 The game has two main views, a tactical view that can be zoomed in to see ship battles in great 
 detail and a strategic view that's also in 3D but fudges some of the detail necessary for close 
 combat to instead provide a higher-level view. The strategic map is mostly useful as a quick 2D 
 reference, as ships are represented by simple 2D icons, and ships' and planets' radar ranges are 
 clearly marked, but even in this view, you may need to rotate and zoom the camera to select units 
 that are near each other. Unfortunately, the strategic map doesn't have Homeworld's useful top-down 
 perspective, and it can often flop into an awkward angle after switching views.   

  The game's interface works well once you get used to it, but it does have notable limitations. 
 When you do need to use manual 3D movement, it's extremely awkward. It's also very difficult to 
 see the Z-axis marker relative to the plane you're viewing. Given that one of the game's most attractive 
 features is having multiple star systems in a single map, it's too bad that you can't select a 
 ship in one system and right-click on a location in another system to have it move there. You can 
 assign your ships to control groups, but they work only in the star system you're currently looking 
 at. Movement between star systems is limited to flying to a wormhole, then having to come back 
 to the connected wormhole later to gather your ships once they've moved through it. Switching between 
 wormholes, while also checking on your faction's production and research, can become cumbersome 
 when Hegemonia's action becomes hectic.    

 Hegemonia's grand space strategy heritage is obvious when looking at the game's secondary screens. 
 Each planet has a management screen, which presents information -- like the tax rate, a slider that 
 emphasizes either research or production, and a four-slot production queue -- in a convenient manner. 
 The planet itself is displayed in 3D as it appears in the tactical view, sharply textured depending 
 on its environment type, and each planet's appearance can actually change after terraforming. This 
 last visual detail is the likely culprit for the slowdown that can often occur when switching between 
 planets on low-end systems. The sophistication of the game's tech tree -- complete with more than 
 200 ship, weapon, and infrastructure technologies -- means research has a whole screen of its own, 
 but unfortunately there's no way to queue up multiple technologies to research. In a nice touch, 
 research carries over from mission to mission in the campaign, and strategic research choices are 
 constrained both by the resource cost of funding research labs and by the number of research points 
 you have.           Massive military bases are one way to defend your planets, but you can't build 
 many of them.    

  Arguably, Hegemonia does a better job with colony and resource management than it does with tactical 
 combat, in part because of a very low limit on the number of ships you can control at once. On 
 larger maps, it's not uncommon to have six or more planets under your control at one time, but 
 you'll have fewer than 10 groups of military ships at once. Combat ships come in four classes -- fighters, 
 corvettes, cruisers, and battleships -- and the three smaller classes have multiple ships per group, 
 from two for the cruisers to seven for fighters. Only one factor helps minimize the impact of this 
 low unit cap, and that's the fact that a smaller ship class is dramatically weaker than a larger 
 ship. While a few full fighter squadrons can defeat a four-corvette group, fighters are completely 
 useless against cruisers and battleships. Corvettes aren't terribly useful later in the game either. 
   

  Hegemonia's unit cap can be frustrating in the context of the campaign, since the game never actually 
 gives you any sort of reason why you can't build a ship you can otherwise easily afford. There 
 is a separate limit on spy ships and special ships, which have separate displays in the lower-left 
 part of the screen, but the special ship limit is the most arbitrary of all. This limit applies 
 to defensive military bases, radar probes, combat support ships like minelayers and repair ships, 
 and the game's three types of resource ships: mining bases, merchants, and wreckage recyclers. 
 The unit limits depend on the map and cannot be increased, so you'll often have tough choices to 
 make. However, Hegemonia's unit limits help balance out the game's multiplayer a bit, since you 
 can't simply churn out lots of defensive stations or even resource ships. It can be very rewarding 
 to hunt out and harass resource ships with fast-moving fighters that you might otherwise not be 
 using.   

  The combat doesn't lend itself well to tactical subtleties. It can be interesting to use the 3D 
 planets and moons as cover for an approaching attack or retreat, but there's otherwise fairly little 
 maneuvering or micromanagement to do. Despite the small number of units that the game's unit cap 
 affords, there isn't much to do in a battle between two lone ships, and it's often impossible to 
 retreat ships from a major battle without losing them all. Fortunately, it's not hard to build 
 more.   

  Hegemonia wasn't really designed with a traditional rock-paper-scissors game balance in mind, but 
 the game has four types of weapons and a few minor differences between the game's three races. 
 The three main weapon types -- proton, ion, and quantum -- aren't radically different from each other 
 and don't have specific counters. The proton weapons use basic particle projectiles; the quantum 
 weapons are similar but are slightly weaker and deal bonus damage within an area of effect; and 
 the ion weapons have visually impressive special effects, do direct, instantaneous damage, and 
 have a small chance of disabling shields. Ships can have only one main type of weapon, so it's 
 best to use missile weapons only on secondary ships, since researching a major upgrade can seriously 
 reduce their ship-to-ship effectiveness. However, missile weapons are the best way to take over 
 planets, which are captured simply by disabling planetary weapon upgrades and bombarding the surface 
 until the planet's morale drops as a result of casualties, causing it to eventually riot.   

  One of Hegemonia's greatest strengths is its graphics. In promoting the game, the developer specifically 
 aimed to support DirectX 8.1 effects on GeForce3, Radeon 8500, and better graphics cards, and it 
 shows. The lighting effects on the stars look particularly good, from the tremendously bright young 
 blue stars to solar flares on older yellow stars. The game's planets are all nicely detailed and 
 cast correct shadows from the star's direction. The huge scale of the game means that you don't 
 spend much time zoomed in close enough to see ship details, and that's just as well, since Hegemonia's 
 ship designs and effects aren't as remarkable. Other than the way fighters swarm in and around 
 bigger ships, Hegemonia's battles look fairly static.           There are more than 200 technologies 
 to research, but don't expect to get them all in a regular multiplayer game.    

  The game's production values don't stand out as much in other areas, but they are generally solid. 
 Apart from the dreary voice acting during the briefings, the unit speech is fine. The unit confirmation 
 voices are effective and are fortunately in English and not in made-up alien languages (as they 
 are in the recently released space strategy game O. R. B.) . The music varies appropriately, if not 
 contextually, from thundering military suites to ambient space fare. Hegemonia's real problem is 
 its interface. The most obvious example of the game's problematic interface is that there's no 
 menu option for a single-player skirmish game. You might not even know the game has a skirmish 
 mode unless you stumble on the fact that it's possible to turn on AI opponents if you choose to 
 host a game without other players. Tooltip hints would have been very useful in this and other 
 situations.   

  Since Hegemonia's single-player campaign is solid but not exceptional, what makes the game easy 
 to recommend to those who like space strategy games are its skirmish and multiplayer modes. The 
 game doesn't ship with many built-in maps and doesn't have a random map generator, but the maps 
 that are included are interesting and balanced, and they range from small, quick two-player affairs 
 to huge maps intended for eight players. A newly released patch has added in the option of saving 
 the game when playing skirmish or cooperative campaign missions with one other player, but there's 
 no save support for large multiplayer games. In multiplayer matches, games can take as little as 
 an hour with two players at higher speed settings, so Hegemonia seems like the closest thing yet 
 to a fast-paced multiplayer space empire game. Hegemonia's solid, innovative gameplay and technically 
 impressive graphics may seem very appealing to space strategy fans, but it's too bad that the game 
 isn't more accessible and more polished.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Data_2063
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  An absolutely impressive space strategy.. Breath-taking graphics, amazing special effects and a quite 
 large research tree with very interesting technologies. The only thing i object are the characters 
 voices, they somehow spoiled the overall value of the game. The RPG elements are present but not 
 sophisticated. It would add much to the overall gameplay if these RPG elements where more controllable, but 
 i suppose something is better than nothing... I liked the scenario, but the game could had been a 
 little larger, it ended quickly. I specifically vote the explosions as the most impressive special 
 effect of the game. Also, i really think that this game has one of the most realistic representations 
 of space i have ever seen, in a computer game. I enjoyed the fantastic epic music theme, it deserves 
 to be recorded as an MP3 to hear it anytime you want. As for the gameplay.. Simply magnificent and 
 with great replay value. Too bad this game didn't bring us any sequels.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKKTTONY
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  This game it's bad, I just being playing for around 2 hours and I just uninstalled it... This game 
 gave unclear commandes on which do you attack, you dont know what to do, either attack this ship? 
 or attack that ship? then you became a local enemy for no reason...
  
  Theres this command of attack 2 Merchants, and it gave this Tip on... [Ctrl] + Right Click on the 
 Merchant. I dont know which merchant I should attack, on.
  
  No Tutorial, so you dont know where to go, what to do and you dont even know what to research or 
 where to research you just move these Squads around for no good at all...
  
  This game it's not worth playing or even buying it, save your money on Sins of Solar Empire, dont 
 buy this game. You could say it's a Rip-Off.
  
  The game control, you dont know where is the fast forward button, you just sit here and wait for 
 further unknown commandes on whether you should move this to this kind of planet like or to attack, 
 the game may seem simple without a Tutorial and you dont even know how to change their Height...
 
  
  It takes a long time just to watch your squad attack a singe ship like 5 minutes to destroy a Medium 
 Sized ship...
  
  Thank You.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cursed_lion
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Since human race managed to pull up her eyes into the sky one of her top desires is to to claim 
 her destiny to one and only gamble by dropping the dices of luck or disaster, Those dices in this 
 game are at last to the hands of the human race and humans take them and drop them moss confident 
 about their future KNOW WE take control of their moves after each fall of the dice to lead the 
 human race to the eternal unknown darkness of the endless space.
  YOU WILL FIGHT
  YOU WILL TRADE
  YOU WILL RESEARCH
  YOU WILL EITHER THRIVE OR YOU WILL EXTINCT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: handelo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Hegemonia is probably one of the best Space RTS games to date, even though it was released all 
 these years ago. The graphics are stunning, the gameplay is innovative, manageable and fun, and 
 don't get me started about the variety of technologies available in the game.
  
  Allow me to begin by saying I am not going to write a full fledged, 2 page review - I've been beaten 
 to it about 4 years ago, thankfully. However I do wish to emphasize some of the points which most 
 people seem to count against the game.
  
  First up is the battle system - Many reviews have complained about the battle system being static 
 and linear. Well, as for static, I can hardly imagine gigantic ships such as Battleships and Cruisers 
 to be highly mobile and extremely maneuverable, flying around enemy ships and turning at lightning-fast 
 paces. After all, we are talking about ships the size of large cities here, aren't we?
  As for linear, to date, I havn't heard of any Real-Time-Strategy game that has been able to turn 
 battle between units interactive. Besides, apart for the standard aggressive/normal/defensive stances 
 of units, Hegemonia also lets you choose targeting type - Hull (higher damage) , Engines (disable 
 unit's movement) and Weapons (lower unit's fighting capabilities) , a trait which almost any other 
 game leaves out.
  
  Next up is the interface - I do agree, the interface is vast and complicated, and takes time to 
 get used to. However, every screen in the game can be opened using the F1-F6 keys (some require 
 units to be selected) , which makes the interface a whole lot more accessible. More on this matter, 
 hitting the space key will open up the Starmap, a 2D map used for quick referencing and easy commanding. 
 Contrary to popular belief, having played the game many times, the Star map does no shift to awkward 
 angles unless you want it to - except following cutscenes, in which the 3D display also changes 
 it's former angle. However the Starmap almost never rotates sideways, and can always be restored 
 to it's former state by simply holding down the Down arrow key.
  And if you're having problems understanding the objectives of missions, please try reading the 
 text that is displayed so plainly underneath the briefing text on the initial briefing screen at 
 the start of each level, beneath the lable MISSION OBJECTIVES .
  
  The only real problem I've encountered that has made the game rather troublesome is the invisible 
 units bug after loading a saved game. That is, until I've found out about the unofficial 1.10 patch 
 that Digital Reality released, which has easily solved the problem.
  
  Unfortunately, though, units that have a timed life-span (such as Wormhole Inhibitor Probes and 
 Jump Redirector Probes) do not have a count-down timer, which is a bit unnerving when you're racing 
 against the clock to finish a mission, and are not sure if your units will be constructed in time, 
 before the timed unit is destroyed. However it doesn't really have an impact on the gameplay itself.
 
  
  All-in-all, I can't say I've seen a RTS game more polished and refined than Hegemonia: Legions 
 of Iron, as well as one that has such detailed graphics and such a multi-optional tech-tree, combined 
 fairly with just the right touch of humor, thus not making the game ridiculous or overly-serious.
 
  If you think old games are a waste of time, think again, because Hegemonia delivers gameplay and 
 graphics that compete with (and even surpass) most of today's RTS games.
  This one is truly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  Imperium Galactica II was am underappreciated marvel.
  
  It is nice to see that this latest game succeeds as a spiritual successor of that game with fully 
 developped planetary development and research tech trees. It does not have ground assault, but 
 makes up for it with beautifully rendered space battles.
  
  The pros of this game are
  (1) Large maps involving multiple star systems with multiple planets in each, complete with jump 
 gates, asteroid fields etc.
  (2) Beautifully rendered spaceships with excellent effects such as jawdropping explosions.
  (3) 
 Large research tree that influences how you faction develop.
  (4) Hero system a bit like Masters of Orion (a very welcome addition)
  (5) interesting spy units
 
  
  The cons are
  (1) The official campaigns are bit on the dull side with subpar voice acting and lack of cutscenes 
 (instead of cutscenes, they have conversations to carry the plot) . Uninspired plot.
  (2) The build limit of ships is too small - cannot build large armardas of battle fleet. A missed 
 opportunity as it would have been stunning given tyhe beautiful visuals.
  (3) Spys are good but are slightly too poweful, a bit more gameplay balance would be nice.
  
 
  For newcomers, I recommend this game. I will also give a tip: use the tactical screen for all 
 commands. I took me a little while to figure this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Anguish
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  
  This is a good game surprisingly. i've played it for a few days and i must say its growing on me 
 the graphics are great the gameplay isnt bad and the sound FX is great too the only thing i do 
 think is bad it the value it too expensive over here in England i hate that it like 30-45 pounds 
 over here i think thats a rip off it's not worth that not even with the gaplay graphics and SFX 
 as good as they are. ok what i would say it try to get used to the controls before it takes like 
 all day it reminds me off C&C red alert 1 and 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arronizmiguel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  
  Mix Homeworld and Civilization, add GREAT graphics to the formulae, and a spice of originality, 
 Think you will enjoy it? ... 
  
  My first impression of the game was: "This is a Homeworld's clone".
  
  A few minutes later 
 comes my second impression: "The best graphics I've ever seen in a RTS"
  
  A few hours later, my 3rd impression: "But this game plays partially like Civilization, maybe that's 
 why I haven't got to sleep yet"
  
  A few days later... "Every Space lover, Strategy fan, or simply GAMER, should get this game", it's 
 good, very good.
  
  And maybe it's cheap everywhere, so, don't hesitate to get this GEM, truly recommendable.
  
 
  You will begin wit a very simple mission near the sun, and later on the game you will have several 
 planets at you disposal, battle stations and ships and personnel to care about, climbing their 
 ranks and skills... 
  
  ... that, my friend, is just plain FUN.
  
  Don't miss this one !!!
  
  .
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game for 20, I thought, looks good on the packaging, but not going to be a 
 great game. How wrong I was!
  
  The graphics of the game are superb highly detailed in every way possible. The sound is great not 
 to in your face but right for the game.
  I loved the combat increasing your fleet and colonizing other planets and researching upgrades 
 as you go along.
  
  Towards the end of the game I basically researched everthing, I had mainly Battleships in my fleet. 
 and the research that I did I could increase population on my planets. I was having Billions on 
 each planet I colonized. My tax income was over the top I did not know what to do with the money!!!!
 
  
  This game is addictive, I would recommend this game to anyone who loves to play stratical games 
 or like space games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is an old game but its certainly a breakthrough. Graphics and gameplay are a major plus 
 for this one. I was nosing around the strategy section at Frys and didn't find anything particularly 
 appealing with the new ones displayed, happened to see two copies of this one tucked away. Figured, 
 why not. Checked it out and actually I thought I was throwing away twenty bucks just for a few 
 hours of a fix. When I did play it though I was pleasantly surprised. The graphics were what first 
 won me over and were what was promised in the advertising. The gameplay was great too. One bug 
 though that I didn't like is that once in a while the game has problems switiching between the 
 overview and the tactical map if you're zoomed too close in so you end up looking at the same view 
 for a while and wondering whats going on.. For those of you who have played Homeworld you'd know 
 the maps I'm talking about. Of course, the bug wasn't there in Homeworld. Apart from this though, 
 the game is worth it. Unfortunately I see that the expansion hasn't come out yet - seems like quite 
 a while for an expansion though. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
