-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hellfire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/hellfire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 29, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 372 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Synergistic Soft.
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hellfire fails to provide as compelling an experience as Diablo, but does provides a good quantity 
 of new monsters, items, spells, and settings. 

 To the surprise of many gamers, instead of releasing an expansion pack for Diablo, Blizzard North 
 decided to focus its efforts on a full-fledged sequel (which has tentatively been given the appropriate, 
 if unoriginal, title Diablo II) . But gamers have continued to clamor for more Diablo, and eventually 
 the expansion pack torch was passed to Blizzard's affiliate, Synergistic Software. Synergistic's 
 Hellfire gives gamers new levels, monsters, items, spells, and single-player quests and refinements 
 to the original Diablo engine, but the overall package is slightly less compelling than the original 
 game.  

 As with Diablo, Hellfire's storyline is not particularly deep - Na'Krul, a demon that once ranked 
 highly in Diablo's hierarchy until turning on his master, is released from exile by ye local foolhardy 
 mage. Na'Krul and his cronies set up shop in eight new levels that fit seamlessly into the original 
 game. These eight new levels are divided into two areas, each with its own new tileset, the gothic 
 Demon Crypt (home sweet home for Na'Krul) and the Festering Nest, an organic hive-like domain that 
 hosts Na-Krul's "Starship Troopers-refugee" lieutenant, the Defiler. In addition to these new threats, 
 you must once again deal with the big guy, Diablo, who returns more powerful than ever.  

 Although all the new monsters are confined to the new Hellfire levels, once you install Hellfire, 
 you can find new items and shrines scattered throughout the original 16 levels of Diablo. You can 
 use a new character class, the Monk, to conquer the challenges in the original game. The new Hellfire 
 levels are roughly equivalent in difficulty to levels nine through 16 of the original game, which 
 means you must either transfer a high-level character from the old game (through a needlessly cumbersome 
 process) , download one of the characters that has been made available at Sierra's web site, or 
 trudge through the old levels with a new character if you want to survive the new levels. In addition 
 to the new character class, items, and shrines, Hellfire provides a number of refinements to Diablo's 
 gameplay - you can now jog instead of merely sauntering around town, cast spells to quickly find 
 an exit to a level or to locate a tiny ring that you vaguely heard drop nearby, and can buy more 
 useful items from the town's ever-greedy merchants. Synergistic has also added difficulty levels 
 into the single-player version of the game, a feature inexplicably lacking from the original game. 
 Gamers who are still playing Diablo will definitely appreciate these enhancements more than those 
 who put Diablo back on the shelf long ago.  

 The most notable absence from Hellfire is multiplayer support, an especially surprising omission 
 considering that Diablo is one of the most popular multiplayer games of all time. Given the amount 
 of player hacking the original game underwent, it's not surprising that an unofficial hack has 
 already appeared to let you use the Monk character class in a multiplayer game (but not on Battle. net, 
 Blizzard's free Internet server) . Future hacks may succeed in making the new levels and monsters 
 accessible in a multiplayer game, but such hacks won't receive official sanction or support. For 
 now, you'll be forced to play the new levels solo, which is reason enough for a significant portion 
 of Diablo's fans to stay away from this expansion pack.  

 Hellfire includes a couple dozen new enemies, over 30 new magic items, seven new spells, and a handful 
 of relatively simple new quests. The Monk character class is a very powerful fighter-mage. In addition 
 to being a formidable spell-caster, the Monk is an adept martial artist who can use a staff to 
 attack multiple opponents at once and is skilled in unarmed combat (yep, now you can kick Diablo 
 in the head) . The new spells include a healthy mix of defensive enchantments, devastating new offensive 
 weapons (the original game's most powerful spells, Apocalypse and Nova, are now also available 
 as spell books) , and spells that just make wandering through the labyrinths more convenient.  

 
 Unlike the original game, most new monsters are represented by original artwork and are not just 
 differently colored and powered variations of monsters previously used in the game. But there's 
 a price to be paid for all the new art, as the monster animations and death sequences, in particular, 
 appear to be less detailed than those included in the original game (although there are some great 
 additions, such as the Liches, Crypt Demons, and Orbs) . The new Demon Crypt tileset works well 
 and is as detailed as any of the four tilesets in Diablo, but the Festering Nest tileset is a bit 
 too disorienting and cluttered. There are, however, some nice graphical touches. For example, the 
 barrels that appeared throughout the original game are replaced in the Festering Nest levels with 
 organic body-snatcher-ish pods and by suitably gothic urns in the Demon Crypt. Hellfire adds some 
 impressive new spell effects, such as huge glowing fireballs. The new levels also come with their 
 own musical scores, which mainly consist of ambient sounds and don't measure up to the quality 
 of the music in the original game.  

 Hellfire fails to provide as compelling an experience as Diablo, but does provides a good quantity 
 of new monsters, items, spells, and settings, and a number of gameplay enhancements that eliminate 
 a few annoyances of the original game. These additions and enhancements may not be sufficient to 
 breathe new life into the original game, but if you are a single-player Diablo addict, Hellfire 
 will enhance your enjoyment of Diablo. Hellfire is definitely more of the same, but that's not 
 necessarily a bad thing, considering that Diablo was GameSpot's 1996 Game of the Year. Multiplayer 
 aficionados, however, should pass on Hellfire.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 6
  Value: 6
  Story: 5
  
  Note: The above stats are a representation of Hellfire and not Diablo hence the time spent is only 
 in relation to the newer Hellfire quests.
  
  There are not many games that can consumed a vast majority of my gaming time and really encapsulated 
 me to another world to literally live and breathe it; Diablo was certainly one of them for its 
 addictiveness and simplicity hence brought a new term Action RPG to the table. Considering 
 I bought the game close to the release time back in 97, Ive played all the characters twice 
 therefore defeated Diablo six times (that fella doesn't know when to quit) .
  
  When reading the announcement that an expansion pack was on the horizon, my fever 
 drew to newer heights hence enhancing three of the six characters to be well prepared for the new 
 challenges ahead. Hellfire as it was dubbed promised new quests, locations and a 
 new character. Well, I was still blinded with Diablo that I didnt read the fine print 
 for Hellfire; its definitely an expansion pack alright however the catch is that you need 
 to start the entire campaign all over again to take advantage of the newer materials. In addition 
 your characters in Diablo can be brought over to Hellfire less the intact gear so whatever goodies 
 you have will vanish if you choose to play the expansion pack.
  
  By this stage I was truly getting tired of defeating Diablo for the nth time however the newer 
 features are quite promising enough. The immediate one is that Hellfire spawns three levels of 
 difficulty as apposed to just one in Diablo; this means that even though you transport your player 
 from Diablo to Hellfire naked you can opt to play in Nightmare or Hell mode if you 
 wish so all is not totally lost; yet the characters who solely requires their superior equipment 
 (a. k. a. the Warrior) will be the most difficult player to start off as with the Sorcerers 
 spells and the Rogues range attacks really doesnt need superior equipment to survive. 
 Luckily for me, my Rogue was the most experienced character therefore grabbing a decent enough 
 bow and already had a good range of spells made her more than capable to tackle the 'nightmare' 
 mode immediately.
  
  The Monk being the new kid on the block, is basically a warrior that requires practically no armour 
 and uses melee or staff to attack. I felt that considering the staff weapons are not widely used 
 in Diablo, the Monk somehow filled in the gap, or if you longing you can opt to melee your way 
 throughout the dungeons. In addition to this, the Monk also can parry missiles and spells, always 
 equip with the default search spell and considering hes quite a fast spell 
 caster that only rivals to the Sorcerer you can say that the Monk could possibly be the most powerful 
 character in the Hellfires roster.
  
  The collection of spells in Diablo ranges up to level four yet in Hellfire they introduced level 
 five. By all means this doesnt mean that these are the almighty powerful spells, its 
 just they are categorised as level five. Within level five the character can grab in addition six 
 more spells being the Apocalypse, Ring of Fire, Immolation, Wall of Lightning, Reflect and lastly 
 Warp. My personal favourite is the Warp spell as what it does it teleports the character to the 
 closest exit point  a nice way for a quick escape and the casting time is considerably faster 
 than the portal spell. The other spells are hybrids of the previous spells in Diablo (e. g. the 
 Nova is very similar to Immolation meaning instead of lightning bolts projects in an arc expect 
 small fireballs instead; wall of fire in Diablo  wall of lightning in Hellfire and so forth) .
 
  
  There are two new locations in Hellfire which will not be unlocked until your character is at a 
 reasonable level (fifteen) or when you cleared the catacombs. Far north where the cows are is Lester 
 the Farmer which opens up the Hive quest which naturally encounters plenty of hive 
 type creatures and once defeated the boss opens another quest called Grave Matters. 
 Of the two, Grave Matters is the most interesting and innovative as the crypt really feels diabolic. 
 Eerie music and plenty of strange malevolence beings will pounce on your unsuspected character 
 therefore the trip down the crypt is certainly a worthwhile experience.
  
  Nothing has really change graphically and sound wise in Hellfire as all the textures and sounds 
 are brought from Diablo therefore the installation will not be vast. Naturally though there are 
 newer textures because of the two new locations however as an overall picture the Hive 
 quest is the only one that looks a little out-of-place as even though very detailed, some of the 
 colour choices somehow make the levels look a little confusing as everything seems to be merged 
 as one. Newer scores are added to both The Hive and The Crypt yet thankfully 
 suits well for the surrounding environs and the voice acting even though tries hard to replicate 
 the original, falls short as it tries too hard, bordering idiotic.
  
  Theres one notable feature that made Diablo so tremendously famous yet was unusually opt 
 out in Hellfire: theres no multiplayer hence at no time can you play Hellfire using Battlenet. 
 Maybe it was because that the majority of the development was made by Sierra and not Blizzard, 
 it could be that Blizzard owns Battlenet and they didnt want Sierra to be part of or dabble 
 into it. Whatever the reason/s multiplayer is out-of-the-question.
  
  And to carry on the traditional incompleted quests, Hellfire has several that didnt 
 make into the game but modifying the text file will give you two extra playable characters being 
 the Bard (graphically a rogue but able to use two weapons simultaneously) and the Barbarian (no 
 mana but has a natural affinity to resistance and able to wield two handed weapons in one hand) . 
 There is also the missing quest called Celia and Theodore (ties in with the Hive 
 quest) and considering the (in) famous rumours about the cow level, a tongue-in-cheek 
 quest that replaces Lester the Farmer to Jersey's Jersey (a. k. a. Cow Quest) . 
 Not exactly what the players want however its more of a dedication than actually doing the 
 cow level.
  
  Bearing in mind Hellfire is the only official expansion pack that Blizzard approved there are several 
 hypocrisy about playing Hellfire. For starters, none of the newer quests will be further explained 
 by the major players in Diablo; even Deckard Cain has nothing to say about the newly arrival of 
 the Hive or the Crypt. Only Gillian has a few words to say about the Crypt when you produce a certain 
 item. Secondly, the lore of Hellfire will not be carried across therefore it made me feel like 
 playing Hellfire is not an expansion to Diablo but another game entirely and the exclusion of Battlenet 
 makes me wonder whether Hellfire is just a cash cow reaping in the rewards of Diablo. Lastly, when 
 you install Hellfire there are two additional up-and-coming features; one is Lords 
 of Magic and the other is none other than Half Life. In one way I feel ripped off that I need to 
 play Diablo yet again to take advantage of the new features and yet felt satisfied of the new features 
 added. All I can say is that Hellfire is an expansion pack that youll love to hate and hate 
 to love.
  
  PS: Theres a bug in Hellfire with sadly corrected itself after the 1.1 patch: The Monk can 
 obtain the Doppelganger staff which will include very powerful bonuses however theres 
 a good chance that monsters will duplicate itself when being hit. I remember when confronting Diablo, 
 I had five Diablos attacking the Monk  naturally the Monk diedeventually! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theobsessiveone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I've played the original Diablo for quite some time. Then I played it briefly online. I got tired 
 of cheaters. And BOTS !! 
  
  Then I was given a copy of Hellfire. I haven't been back to the original version of Diablo since. 
 I simply ENJOY playing this souped-up version of the game. So you can only multiplay over a LAN 
 - big deal. The Monk (and The Bard when you put a certain command txt into the gamefile) are quite 
 fun to play. The Monk more so than the Bard. Her double-weapon capability is a toned-down version 
 of Diablo II's Barbarian character. Fun once or twice, but ultimately too repetitive even for me. 
 And I thrive on repetitive fun! 
  
  The Monk is best played with Leather Armor. Do not give him plate armor, as his stats drop significantly! 
 He's not a warrior, he's a Kung Fu master. Think FEET of death... The new trap-spell inspired Runes 
 are interesting, but ultimately a waste of gold. Very often the monsters will walk around them. 
 
  
  The new levels are fun and quite challenging. The Nest is appropriately "icky", and The Crypt is 
 appropriately creepy. Especially the Lich monsters later in Nightmare and Hell modes. (Hell mode 
 is aptly named. Almost everything becomes immune to Fireball [and Chain Lightning] which WILL be 
 your #1 spell of choice until then. Recommend keeping Stone Curse available on a hot button throughout 
 Hell mode. You'll need it.) 
  
  This game also has a nice feature called "The Cornerstone of the World", which allows you to drop 
 a cool item that your other character can't seem to find. When that character reaches level 1 of 
 The Crypt, he/she can pick it up in the room once they find it. I will usually play a new character 
 until they reach this level, then go back and forth between 2 characters, "delivering" several 
 items - especially Rings and Amulets - until I have them transferred, then resume playing the game 
 through to the end. I often repeat this process in all 3 modes (especially Hell mode, once I discover 
 the odds against me) . 
  
  To say that I obsessively play this game is the understatement of the year. 
  I don't go more 
 than 3 days without still playing Hellfire for a little while. And I'll probably continue to do 
 so for some time. I simply love this version of Diablo. 
  
  I've played Diablo II offline a couple of times. Eventually I'll play the Lord of Destruction expansion 
 pack, after I've bid on - and bought - several more set-pieces to complete my collections. I live 
 up to my gamer name: TheObsessiveOne... 
  
  
  Until later. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Developed in 1997 by Synergistic Soft., Hellfire is a great add-on to Blizzard's Diablo. If you 
 don't know, Diablo is a RPG Action that the player will mostly left-click a target to attack with 
 the controlled character. For instance, by clicking the same mouse button, the hero opens chests, 
 doors, barrels and pick up items from the ground. More monsters you kill, more experience your 
 character will receive and eventually will level up, getting stronger over the time.
  
  This add-on really surprised me. As I'm always reading bad comments about it, I was unsure if the 
 new content is worth of spending my money. Actually, it extends the life of one of the best RPG 
 Action games ever released, by adding the Monk (character which the player can choose to play) , 
 eight new levels, some items and three difficult levels (featured in Diablo only in Battle. net, 
 not Single Player) .
  
  The Monk can use staffs with uneven skill, wear light armors and get high bonuses, or even fight 
 just unarmed. The problem is that you don't have any info about his qualities and weakness, and 
 you'll have to try all the possibilities by yourself. Why the monk isn't skillful with the sword-and-shield 
 style? Can he block projectiles with the bare hand? Which armor will restrict his bonuses? Although 
 all those answers can easily be found in the web, Hellfire itself will not explain anything.
  
  The eight new levels are divided by two parts, but I'll not spoiler them here, you'll be surprised 
 by the new content. I can only say that visiting the new levels is optional, and also that the 
 first part (the first four new levels) is a total fuss, really a bad art design. Now, the second 
 part is amazing and adds a big value to this add-on. As I said, you can simply ignore the new levels 
 and play Hellfire as it was the original Diablo (with some chances, of course) .
  
  The new items are: uniques, special artifacts with -usually- great bonuses; several new shrines, 
 places where your character can touch to get a special effect; runes, which work like traps; and 
 the oils, to enhance your items with damage, durability etc.
  
  The three "new" difficult levels are 'Normal' (default difficult in Diablo, Single Player mode) , 
 'Nightmare' and 'Hell'. The great news is that you can play those difficulties in Single Player; 
 the bad news is that Hellfire doesn't have Multiplayer mode, so it's impossible to test all the 
 added content with other players. 
  
  Even without Multiplayer, Hellfire stills a lengthy game. There're four characters to beat three 
 difficult settings, and if you decide to go through the new levels (and I recommend to) , you'll 
 see that this add-on is worth trying and surprisingly good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  It would be hard to argue that Diablo for the PC was not a runaway success. It sold millions of 
 copies and the free play on the internet with random dungeons every time you went down to try to 
 slay monster after monster only added to the game's longevity and of course most games with any 
 modicum of popularity will get talk of a possible expansion. Although Diablo did not have an in-house 
 expansion, another company, Sierra, was ambitious enough to try their hand at it. What came out 
 of that Studio was Hellfire.
  
  To begin, Hellfire is only a singe player expansion. This is thoroughly disappointing because Diablo 
 was a great game offline but the game shined in multiplayer. There are hacks and other things but 
 this won't allow players to play Hellfire on Battle. net, Blizzard's free internet support system. 
 The fact that the game is only single player makes this expansion not nearly as tantalizing as 
 the original game and that is probably the biggest knock against it.
  
  Though it might not do well in the multiplayer region, the game does do a few things quite well. 
 Adding another class, the game expands it's ranks to four with the inclusion of the Monk class. 
 The Monk would be easiest to describe as a hybrid Fighter-Mage that is so-so in melee and magic 
 and therefore can not use the top tier items of either the Warrior nor the Sorceror. Though it's 
 neat to play the Monk for a while, I personally prefer the aforementioned Warrior or Sorceror. 
 
  
  Also, the game introduces a few new features such as the ability to jog in town to cut down on 
 the time consuming and cumbersome walking pace from the game before. You can toggle the jog on 
 and off but why would you? I ran all the time in town and it was a welcome addition.
  
  Story-wise, the game isn't going to surprise anyone too much as one of Diablo's underlings, Na'Krul, 
 has now rebelled against his master and this pits up up against eight new levels of chaos from 
 the cyrpt to the insect hive. The levels are separate from the original 16 floors of doom but they 
 are integrated fairly well into the game so it doesn't seem too out of place.
  
  Each zone is four levels, just like the previous game, with all new monsters, shrines, and items. 
 The graphics are the game are just like the original Diablo. The monsters each have a unique way 
 of dying and it runs smoothly without much of hitch. There are new bats and bugs for players to 
 slice through and new barrels, or bug pods, that explode with gunk going everywhere.
  
  As for the sounds of the game, Sierra did a competent job of adding new voices to the Monk class 
 and all the other monsters especially when they die. I can not say they are nearly as good as the 
 Doom Knights biting the dust but they are still good in their own right. None of the sounds seem 
 out of place and you could swear that maybe Blizzard made this game after all (but no multiplayer.... 
 ARGH!)
  
  The game does allow you to collect new items and spells such as Nova and Apocalypse that were only 
 allowed as scrolls or staves before anywhere in the game so you do not have to go to the new areas 
 solely to get new items. There are also a few dozen new magical attributes that can be randomly 
 generated onto items so that also spices things up a bit with a handful of new unique items. My 
 favorite was the mace that shoots charged bolt. Though it's fairly useless, it is neat looking!
 
  
  In the end, Hellfire provides a suitable experience but only for those that are craving an addition 
 to the original Diablo game. As was mentioned, there is no internet play and that is the greatest 
 knock against this game. Because of that reason, this game is impossible to recommend except to 
 those that want to play single player with only a handful of new content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickeySteroid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Hellfire is basically just an expansion pack to the famous game known as Diablo. Hellfire adds 
 some cool new features to Diablo. These features include items' spells' levels' monsters and other 
 cool features. In addition to these cool features' Hellfire adds the new Monk calss to the game. 
 Don't worry' the old classes are still playable. All 3 of them are playable which are the Fighter' 
 Rogue' Wizard' and the new Monk class. There are some cool new bosses to fight such as a giant 
 insect queen in the new hive are' and this big guy that is harder to kill than Diablo in the Krypt. (I 
 don't even know if he can be killed.
  
  Other than the new features' Hellfire isn't much different then Diablo. The gameplay' graphics' 
 sound' value' and storyline are pretty much the same. I really don't see why Hellfire only recieved 
 a 7.5 when Diablo recieved a 9.6 by Gamespot. I like them both the same. Anyways I think that fans 
 of the first game should own this expansion pack' but thats just what I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Hellfire might be one of the oddest expansion packs ever: It wasn't made by the company that made 
 the original game. The results were disastrous.
  
  No one knows who it happened but, somehow Blizzard was too busy with Diablo 2 and Adventures of 
 Warcraft to give a damn about Diablo's expansion pack so Sierra thought they should take up the 
 duty of becoming expansioneers. They sucked at it.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Diablo: Hellfire does all it can to add to the graphics engine of Diablo, but for the most part, 
 it fails. The expansion pack has prettier looking explosions, more voluminous lighting and a very 
 detailed tile set, but it came one year after the original so the least they could do was give 
 us higher resolution.
  
  On top of not trying to hard, the new levels are hit and miss. The Crypt is like the original church 
 levels; just slightly more graphically complex. The new Hive levels, on the other hand, lack the 
 complexity of even the simplest Diablo levels. They're just basically green with brown and shades 
 of both in a totally disorganized fashion. The monster animations are mostly forgettable, with 
 only a few exceptions such as the Crypt's Orbs.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  
  This is another category in which Hellfire doesn't try too hard.
  
  The music in the two new 
 levels is boring and instantly forgettable. Besides its abysmally low quality it is just a simple 
 combination of ambient sounds tied together by a flimsy keyboard note.
  
  The sound effects don't fare all that much better, but it is clear that Sierra put some more thought 
 into making them. The sounds of the Hive's insect-like creatures dying and the sparks of the lighting 
 surrounding the Orbs are all pretty well made. The voice acting on the other hand is horrible, 
 especially that of the Defiler's "robotic" voice. It's been done dead for the past 20 years let 
 the robotic voice die.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  It's not so much as what Hellfire doesn't do as it is what it takes out of Diablo that hurts this 
 game: Without multiplayer, all of the items and monsters this game throws at you are nearly useless.
 
  
  For those of you who don't know what Diablo is about, allow me to sum it up: "MEEE SAAAASSSH!!! 
 That's all, you go around dungeons killing everything that moves and then you come back out and 
 buy/sell weapons or talk to village folks to more quests or more rewards for your efforts.
  
  What really made Diablo such a stand out game was that it was an action RPG with soul. You 
 cared for the characters: Cain, the Peg-legged boy, even Griswold the greedy blacksmith. There 
 was a world here that was genuinely scared at what was going on a few meters from their town. There 
 was a story that was surprising to listen too and that had more than its fair share of plot twists. 
 Hellfire doesn't have any of this.
  
  Hellfire's main goal seems to be to let you level up your character (s) , so it offers you a plethora 
 of new challenges. Most of those challenges have nothing to do with the new levels. As ironic as 
 this is, the new levels are virtually useless to high-level characters. If you finished the original, 
 going through these levels is a breeze. Only the last 2 levels of the Crypt are more acceptable 
 in terms of difficulty.
  
  However, where the game really shines is in that it gives you a choice between 3 infamous difficulty 
 levels: Normal, Nightmare, and Hell. These difficulty levels are really where most of the characters, 
 which finished the original, should spend their time. They are infinitely more challenging than 
 normal-level Crypt and Hive levels and they offer better drops.
  
  The monster drops in Hellfire also seem to be seriously halted, especially in the new areas. Back 
 in the day, I think I had at least a dozen characters pass through the Hive and Crypt levels and 
 I didn't have a SINGLE unique drop on me. That's really bad considering some of the items in Hellfire 
 are extremely powerful and rare, including the famous among Diablo players, Putrid Cowleg which 
 was something of a myth.
  
  Hell, most new items in Hellfire were myths because, other than that one Cow-armor, I never found 
 a single new expansion type item. Yeah, sure there were runes, but they acted like traps and they 
 soon became useless. There were also new spells, but the high level ones were, again impossible 
 to find. And as for the rest of the items? Like I said, I never even got to see ONE of the items 
 proudly displayed on the back of the box.
  
  The monster and level design fared much better than the rest of the game. The new insect-like creatures 
 of the Hive were big and nasty, but they were poorly animated and the color palette of the Hive 
 was made up of 3 colors. The Crypt fared much better, with tons of original, cool looking, monsters 
 such as the orbs and phantoms or the new minotaur-like Death Knights.
  
  Hellfire also introduces a new class: The Monk. This guy is an expert martial artist (wonder which 
 FF they ripped that from?) and he can attack many enemies at once using his powerful staff. He's 
 also an expert magician and, very, very unbalanced. The Monk was, much like the Assassin and Druid 
 were for D2: LoD, a highly overpowered class that was quickly thrown out the door along with the 
 expansion. His skill caps ran in the hundreds for each of his stats, he could wear heavy armor 
 AND cast spells like a mage, etc. Balance was out the window.
  
  Among these major changes Hellfire also offered a bunch of smaller, but equally important, changes. 
 For one, you could now jog instead of simply walking around in town. You could also, using a spell, 
 see the faint outlines of items that had dropped among hundreds of corpses or see that exit you've 
 been looking for an hour. This "Sense" spell was made available to Monks from the start while everyone 
 else had to go find it. The game also had a few extra subquests, but they were mostly just for 
 show as half-of-them needed to be activated using a hack.
  
  As a final note, Sierra chose to make it nearly impossible for players to move their characters 
 from one game to the other, so most players spent huge amounts of time trying to just play the 
 game with their old characters. In the end though, it was still Diablo... almost.
  
  Multiplayer: 0/10
  
  When you go out of your way to try to REMOVE something that's already 
 in a game, you cannot expect the gamer to be happy.
  
  With the removal of multiplayer Hellfire becomes a complete failure. Without this genius contraption 
 it makes this expansion of one of the most popular online games ever, a total waste of money. A 
 crappy expansion is not worth your online game, ever!
  
  Overall: 5/10
  
  Its still Diablo all right, but it's Sierra's version. If this game would've kept the multiplayer 
 and the more refined mechanics of its grandfather, it would easily have scored much higher universally. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthnaevus
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  Man, you think diablo's dead... NO IT IS NOT!!! Hellfire is rare and those who play it, play it 
 alone.... Guys, download the multiplayer mod....
  
  Hellfire is the only add-on made by SIERRA (yes) for diablo made by Blizzard... Quite bizarre but 
 good... 3 new characters ( 2 are secrets) and tons of new objects, monsters and spells (including 
 the famous Apocalypse book, a rarety!) The two new levels disappointed me.. Short... Too short. 
 I loved them though. Na-Krul and the Defiler are easy bosses compared to Diablo himself... Well, 
 it's just an add-on, don't forget it! Also, new major graphic changes in the game itself, which 
 disappointed me too. You can walk faster in the town. I found that funny...
  
  I suggest you don't buy, only if you are a collector. (the game can sell itelf at about 45$ CAD) ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19liam86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Ooo how exciting my first review lol. Well I thought it best to start with the game I completed 
 most recently which is Hellfire which to you people who don't know what this is, the expansion 
 pack for Diablo. I have to say I'm quite disappointed with it. It adds a few extra levels and an 
 extra character and a few extra spells but still basically the same. I was also quite frustrated 
 that I had to start the game from scratch AGAIN! to go through the same levels again which I have 
 been through many times before. I was hoping I could carry on from my previous save file and after 
 defeating Diablo, he would somehow regenerate and so have to go through another say 10 levels and 
 kill him again but unfortunately not. Something that did bug me but actually did help me through 
 the game was a glitch that meant every so often when hitting a baddies, they would split into two 
 baddies. Strange huh. This was fine as it was supplying me with loads more experience until I got 
 to Diablo. I ended up fighting FIVE different Diablo's!! Obviously I was slaughtered so thought 
 i better see if there was a patch to sort it. There is a patch which sorts it so no need to worry. 
 Though I wasn't particularly impressed with it it still kept me occupied for a few nights so was 
 worth it and can say I've completed it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneCow
Rating: 3.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  Ok, so you've got:
  
  1. Diablo, which is insane and cool
  2. Diablo 2, which is not quite as insane but maybe more cool
  3. Diablo LOD, which makes Diablo 
 2 even more cool.
  
  So who would bother about a little insignificant third-party expansion? Maybe you are nostalgic 
 of Diablo 1 but also tired and sick of it? You can
  
  1. Go see a doctor
  2. Buy the unofficial expansion, namely Hellfire
  3. Suicide
  
  Let's assume you choose 2. 
 Now you install it, and realize how bad it is. So now you'r nostalgic of Diablo 1, tired and sick 
 of it, AND depressed. You can
  
  1. Go see a doctor
  2. Suicide
  
  In both cases, you lost money.
  
  Money is not for wasting. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
