-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hellgate: London
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/hellgatelondon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay can be supremely addictive because of the way it lets you collect tons of items and upgrade your gear.
 Good-looking graphics, especially on DirectX 10 machines.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most ranged weapons really lack &quot;oomph&quot;.
 Plenty of technical glitches can get in the way.
 Story is clumsy and not written or conveyed very well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 5,808 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Flagship Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 31, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hellgate: London has plenty of neat ideas, but many of them aren't executed as well as you'd like. 
 

  Hellgate: London is a likeable action role-playing game that answers the question "What would happen 
 if you took all the loot lust from Diablo and fit it into a first-person shooter?" OK, maybe you 
 weren't asking that question, but Hellgate is an interesting game. It will probably come into its 
 own after a few more patches, but right now, it has almost as many issues as strengths.  

           It's futuristic London, and it's all been torn apart by demons.      

  The game takes 
 place in London, naturally, and it's the near future. A large gate to hell -- some might call it 
 a "Hellgate" of some kind -- has opened and demons have been spewing forth from it. The storyline 
 has you, as a character in one of six classes, falling into an adventure that puts you on a path 
 to seek out various oracles, kill a whole lot of demons, and eventually penetrate the Hellgate 
 itself. But the storyline is rather limp. It's best conveyed by prerendered cutscenes that play 
 out between each of the game's acts, but there are hours of often poorly written quest dialogue 
 text and flat character exclamations between those cutscenes. The game can't seem to make up its 
 mind as to whether or not it wants to be serious or funny, and the characters that have been placed 
 in the game for comic relief don't work very well, with the possible exception of a guy who, through 
 your actions, ends up having a small demon hump his face for the rest of the game. The game also 
 has a handful of technical issues, including frame rates that randomly take a dive and hard lockups 
 that, depending on when they occur, might make you play through a significant chunk of the game 
 again.  

  This storyline plays out the same way whether you play offline or online, which essentially means 
 that the offline mode is useless. The main point of this game is collecting loot and upgrading 
 your character. Considering that you'll find a ton of loot that your character class can't use 
 and that the most important part of tricking out your character is the ability to show it off to 
 other people, there's no good reason to play offline.  

  The gameplay in Hellgate has you spending time in safe locations, usually train stations, where 
 you'll take on quests, buy or sell items, and, if you're online, interact with other players. But 
 there are a lot of different zones tying these stations together, and they're all filled with a 
 variety of enemies for you to shoot or stab. How you attack depends on which character class you 
 play. There are two melee classes, and these actually play out from a third-person, behind-the-back 
 perspective, so you can see your sword and what you're cutting. The ranged classes, whether you're 
 shooting guns or spells, work best from the first-person perspective (though you can pull out to 
 third, if you want) . Either way, playing the ranged class turns the game into a first-person shooter... but 
 not a particularly great one because it's more RPG than action. You get the impression that when 
 you aim your weapon at something and start firing, all you're doing is triggering some hidden series 
 of dice rolls that determine how hard you hit. The weapons lack impact and you end up feeling really 
 detached from the combat.  

  Of course, there's more to it than your basic attacks because each character class has a set of 
 skills you can use. Marksmen can paint targets to make them take more damage, engineers can call 
 out bots that do most of the heavy lifting in battle, evokers can cast various spells at enemies, 
 and so on. As you gain levels, you earn more points to put into skills, but you need to be careful 
 with how you spec out your character because there's currently no way to undo your choices. It's 
 very possible to misspend your points and end up with a weaker-than-average character. Some similar 
 games let you trade a chunk of in-game currency for the ability to reset your skills.  

           You'll spend a lot of time in train stations and train tunnels, most of which start to 
 look alike after the first couple of hours.      

  Much of Hellgate ends up feeling quite repetitive because you'll see most of the game's best tricks 
 in the first few hours. The enemy designs look great, covering a wide range of imps, crawling demons, 
 surprise-spawning beasts, and floating, ghostly images. But the game also reuses those same enemy 
 designs repeatedly, using the old "let's change their name and their color" trick. The level designs 
 look really nice at first as you explore train tunnels, torn-apart city streets, and hell itself. 
 But the game's random level design just sort of cobbles together prefabricated pieces in slightly 
 different ways as you play, and before too long, all of the combat zones just start to feel identical. 
 At least they'll look quite good from a technical perspective, especially if you have a DirectX 
 10 setup, which allows you to turn on some really great-looking motion blur and depth of field 
 effects.     

  Playing by yourself is relatively easy and fun, but even if you're playing online, you don't have 
 to interact with other players at all. Online, though, you can party up with other players and 
 go into combat together. This makes the game more interesting because the various class skills 
 can work well together and the game gets tougher as you add more people to the mix. If you aren't 
 good at socializing, you can check an "auto party" box, which attempts to automatically hook you 
 up with other people when you enter a combat zone. Chatting in Hellgate can be tough because the 
 interface isn't too great and there aren't too many natural breaks from combat while you're out 
 fighting. The game also has a voice-chat option.  

           Getting new gear and upgrading your old stuff are the things that make Hellgate so weirdly 
 compelling.      

  So what makes Hellgate worth playing? That's the craziest part. Hellgate: London is saddled with 
 a variety of issues, yet it still manages to be totally addictive and compelling because it expertly 
 handles one of gaming's oldest clichs: new stuff. New items and money are constantly popping out 
 of enemies when you mow them down. Each item -- even the ones that aren't suitable for your character 
 class -- is also useful in some way. You can, obviously, sell items back to any merchant in the game, 
 but you can also break items down into base components that are the backbone of the game's crafting 
 system. With a blueprint, some runic fragments, and a whole mess of rare tech boards, you can make 
 new items. But you can also use those same items to upgrade your existing gear. When you find the 
 exact type of rifle or a pair of pants with bonus stats that really help out your character, you 
 can use these components to make sure the items remain useful as you (and your enemies) get tougher. 
 This means you never really have to outgrow your gear, though you'll also find plenty of new, useful 
 gear as you play.  

  Furthering the customization and upgrade aspect of the game, some weapons also have slots for weapon 
 mods, such as different types of ammo, batteries, or fuel. These add properties to your weapons 
 and can raise your accuracy, raise your attack power, add fire damage to your weapon, or make weapons 
 cut through enemy shields. You can add mods for nothing, but you'll have to spend some of your 
 in-game currency to remove them. You can also put any equippable item into a machine found in most 
 stations and pay money to add effects to them. The catch is that you don't get to choose the effect; 
 you just get to choose whether it's a common, rare, or legendary effect. So it's a risky gamble 
 that can make your weapons insanely powerful, but it might end up giving you an effect that's only 
 relevant to another class.  

  You also have to watch your character stats. Each time you level up, you're given five points to 
 drop into accuracy, strength, stamina, and willpower. Most items have stat requirements, and those 
 requirements stack. So if your pants require you to have five willpower points and your shoulders 
 require three more, you'll need at least eight points in that stat to wear both. It's possible 
 to upgrade a weapon to the point that you can't actually use it anymore, but the game doesn't warn 
 you about this, which is supremely frustrating.  

           While it looks its best on a DX10 machine, DirectX 9 players will still get a good-looking 
 game.      

  While you can certainly play the game online for free and experience most of what Hellgate has 
 to offer, you can also subscribe for $10 a month. Right now, the main benefits for subscribers 
 are access to a harder difficulty setting, more character slots, and more room to store gear. You 
 also get to partake in various themed events. There have been two such events as of this writing, 
 one based on Halloween and one based around Guy Fawkes Day. These events add a few quests, but 
 their primary function so far seems to be adding a bunch of annoying little drops to the game, 
 such as apples, potatoes, or blueprints, for pets and stuff. Considering you have limited inventory 
 space, it all just gets a little overwhelming.  

  If you love hoarding stuff and don't mind repetition, Hellgate: London is a really neat but often 
 uneven game that will probably keep you busy for at least a month or two, even if you don't subscribe. 
 But, for many, the game's issues will be a real deal breaker. If you're on the fence, you might 
 want to watch the game's patch notes to see how many technical glitches, as well as other annoyances, 
 are cleared up.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (381 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Owned3
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  To start i'm going to clear up all the bad stuff about this game...
  - It can be very repititve
  - There's no online anymore as of January 31st
  - Storyline isn't 
 the best
  - Ranged classes need to be better
  - You'll see the same enemies over and over again
  Now on to the good
  - Melee classes are 
 very fun to play
  - Armor looks awesomly cool
  - The item, crafting and upgrading system is addictive and fun
  - Graphics are really good on 
 the high settings
  
  Okay now hellgate london is a most different game from other rpgs it's kind of like a futeristic 
 diablo except from a 3d point of view and it takes place in london. Now I wasn't online for awhile 
 but the on time I teamed up in a party it was fun running around sluaghtering hordes of demons. 
 The skill trees give you many different ways to play so no two blademasters are alike sometimes 
 they might be though. Some of the abilities are just awesome like aura of veagence and whirlwind. 
 
  
  Now they might've tried to randomize dungeons but all it did was give different turns and stairs 
 and they use the same environments over and over again most of the time like the first time you 
 go a step into hell it's cool but you get used to it and they use the tunnel enviroments so many 
 times. There is some techinical issues that are really frustrating like after not playing my blademaster 
 for a few monthes i suddenly don't know what happened to him forcing me to start over again or 
 for example the 3 tunnel way to charing cross station i did that yesterday but i had to do it again 
 today... sigh.
  
  I'm not really sure what else to say about this other than it's a great game weighed down by some 
 techinical problems, and some repititve gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeldarb1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London
  
  Demons have arisen from the abyss and have taken control of the surface of the world. Survivors 
 seek shelter in the underground tunnels of London. The compelling opening of the game begins with 
 a cinematic depicting an Elder Templar racing his granddaughter to safety before he leads an assault 
 against the demons at the Hellgate. His forces buy time for the last of the fleeing refugees. Jessica, 
 his granddaughter, having escaped to relative safety, is now a grown Templar herself and recalls 
 what her grandfather did for humanity. Thus, the game begins.
  
  Your character can be one of six classes male or female. The game has an interesting option. You 
 can focus on a melee character and play from the classic third person perspective, or you can choose 
 to be a marksman and have the extra option to play from a first person perspective basically allowing 
 you to play the game as a FPS. Anyway, character customization is very liberal, giving the player 
 many skill options and "tree branch choices." Throughout the game, you will literally sort through 
 hundreds upon hundreds of items to equip your character. All these items can be upgraded with "Nano" 
 shards or "augmented" with money and components. Components are gained by breaking down items. 
 So, you can spend hours just figuring out how to best outfit and customize your character.
  
  Additionally, you spend hours upon hours slaughtering the various kinds of demons. Basically, 
 the story objective is to seek out the "several truths" that will help you face Sydonai (Demon 
 Lord) and close the Hellgate for good. But, in TRUTH, it is just a way to gain enough experience 
 points to be able to face him with a powerful enough character. The graphics look good. Physics 
 are good. Game play is fun and can be very addictive. However, monotony soon takes over. Level 
 designs soon become repetitive. Side quests have no importance to the story. They only serve as 
 a means to level up and collect more items. Don't worry there is no shortage of loot. It is just 
 not worth much compared to augmentation costs. My main problem with the game is its failure to 
 immerse you into the world and story. For example, it takes playing through "Four Acts" before 
 you meet Jessica. Well that encounter is a bit anti climatic. There is no cinematic dialogue, no 
 conversation depth, and no character growth (as in relationships with other characters) whatsoever. 
 NPC encounters may start with voice overs but soon switch to text. I just wanted a change of pace, 
 something to break up the monotony.
  
  I will say the final battle in Hell is quite engaging. First you must defeat the "5 Demon Generals" 
 before you can take on Sydonai. I would suggest just facing one at a time. Try to corner "Flaw" 
 so he can't move away from you. Also, use the grapple to pull "Bedlam" away from his army of orbiles. 
 Finally, after you defeat Sydonai, the Narrator returns with a surprise ending that totally lost 
 me. But, in all honesty, I was glad to see the credits roll. If you enjoy mayhem and monster slaughter, 
 well the game offers fun addictive combat with highly customizable characters. Also, it offers 
 replay value if you want to go back and play it as a shooter. But, If you want more depth in your 
 games, you should look elsewhere. Hellgate had the potential but just did not deliver.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just go ahead and agree with all the gamers who have played this game. Yes, Hellgate 
 London has some neat ideas, but the point is, this game is REALLY disappointing. This game could 
 have been so much better, but its like the makers of the game didn't put much time into it at all 
 and just slapped everything together fast for it to be sold. There just isn't anything about this 
 game that makes you WANT to play more. When you are playing it you feel like you are pushing yourself 
 to play it, then you hope for something exciting to happen, but wait...... NOPE! Nothing happens. 
 Same d*** thing over and over. Now I will admit that I HAVE NOT PLAYED THIS GAME ONLINE, due to 
 the online server for Hellgate London being shut down. So I can't say anything about the online 
 gaming, but I'm sure it's boring as hell too.
  
  What is really annoying with this game are the levels, HOW EVERY LEVEL LOOKS THE SAME!!! This makes 
 the game get old very fast.
  
  Graphics- They arent bad.
  
  Story- No story at all really. Here are some demons, kill them. That's mostly it really. Or go 
 kill these demons and collect a few things and do the same d*** thing for another guy. 
  
  Voice Acting- There isn't any. Only in the COOL AWESOME cutscenes that make the game look awesome 
 until you play it and realize how boring and what a failure it is.....:|
  
  Overall, I don't recomend this game for anyone really. Usually when I review a game, even if its 
 bad, I think a few people might like it, but not this game. I don't know why anyone in the right 
 mind who would like this game, there just isn't anything there. I spent about 17$ (which isnt much, 
 i know, but still) on this game to try it out because I was curious about it. So for those of you 
 who are curious about playing this game. Just don't. Please. Do yourself a favor, do not waste 
 any time playing this game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: renato1988
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  Well game is quite ok, very good about this game is that you can play it like a FPS, or RPG. But 
 the story isn't so interesting to me graphic is good. Played it for about a week and it got bored, 
 its nothing new in game, but the Multiplayer is just stupid, its nothing diffrent from Single player 
 , only thing more people its not even entertaining. People who made it just gone wrong it could 
 be an excellent game. Well its worth the money if you saw it before and you like it and don't count 
 on Multiplayer now it has been closed 01.02.2009. Game looks like horror or something but its not 
 even scary for a moment there are no interesting part in story, well if it is an MMORPG it shouldn't 
 have story so developed but so bad. The game is based on one thing if your Blademaster slash few 
 times one man collect his item if he drops and lets go to other, well its like other RPG-s but 
 they are much interesting, this game is just boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I was there; I beta tested. I'll admit, the game sucked. Bugs crashed my computer, my fps were 
 slow due to a lack of polish and optimization (which I later found was the result of only using 
 high-resolution textures on EVERY object of the game) , and the multiplayer model was confusing 
 at best.
  
  But when I heard the drama behind the closure of Flagship Studios, I dusted off my birthday present 
 from last year and gave it a go. Man, I'm glad I did.
  
  The gamecrashing and performance bugs were gone, and in their place stood an interesting story 
 and a fantastic 3d version of Diablo.
  
  The weapons and equipment were fantastic, the skills easy to plan, and the randomization provided 
 enough diversity to keep me staring at the mini-map for navigation.
  
  This game will unfortunately go down as a great example of how NOT to run a business (proprietary 
 engine and netcode, confusing business model, etc.) , but it was a great ride while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London, often described as a high-graphics Diablo, was a big disappointment for me. While 
 the game follows along the path of Diablo -- hacking, slashing and collecting -- there is absolutely 
 no coherent story line. You are sent out, over and over, on 'collect' or 'kill' quests with no 
 meaning. You have no NPC to get to like. There is no emotional bond. They are all creeps! (Well, 
 except for that one sexy vendor who keeps dropping things ...)
  
  Yes, the graphics are very fine, and I had a good time slashing away as a Blademaster. I liked 
 the way you could upgrade items, but that makes the store items absolutely useless. 
  
  But the lack of a story line and the lack of any kind of emotional connection makes the game tedious 
 as you head into the 30th hour. The is no variety. Kill, Kill, Kill. Collect, collect, collect. 
 ZZZZ. ZZZZ. ZZZZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasso
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  This game could've been great. Keyword here is "could've". Graphics just don't feel polished. There 
 are some animations there that are not befitting of a game released towards the end of 2007. Characters 
 in the game are forgettable. The occasional voice acting is sometimes corny, especially when accompanied 
 by the obviously repetitive & irrelevant character animations. Fighting just doesn't have a solid 
 feeling about it, whether you're wielding a sword or shooting a gun in first-person shooter view. 
 The best way I can put it is that fighting feels more like in a platformer game, rather than a 
 3D RPG. And the amount of stuff & user interface functionalities thrown at you right at the beginning 
 is overwhelming. The so-called tutorial didn't help much either, as it was too long, rather than 
 teaching you things bit by bit. Very quickly you start to feel there's an annoying element of repetitiveness 
 in the game too. I started feeling it when I start quests in the 3rd underground station (you pick 
 up quests in underground stations from NPCs) .
  
  This game was in desperate need of polishing for all of its elements, especially graphics. It also 
 needed some use of usability expertise or user-friendliness. A good narrator to invest expertise 
 in changes that would engage players more in the game's world. Finally, it also needed a good director 
 to put the fairly good different bits together in a final form that makes sense & makes the overall 
 picture look impressive. For example, action music played at strange times. Maybe they can learn 
 something from Half-Life's and Dead Space's music direction. I had a feeling this game had so many 
 of its elements implemented as a result of the opinion of just one person, who wasn't really qualified 
 to take those decisions on their own, and somehow nobody objected or their objections fell on deaf 
 ears! Weird hunch feeling, yes, but that's what I felt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pszpunar
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm late in reviewing this, although I bought it upon release. I gave up on it due to many 
 technical and gameplay issues early on but decided to give it another shot with the 1.2 single 
 player patch (I've never bothered to play it online, which turned out to be a good decision given 
 that the servers are being shut down and I would have lost my characters) . I should add that my 
 computer meets the minimum requirements but not the "recommended" requirements.
  
  When I originally played the game I made a Marksman, which seemed woefully underpowered and became 
 nearly impossible to play at higher levels. I suppose this could have been due to a poor build 
 on my part, although the designers did seem to agree with me as this class was rebalanced with 
 the 1.2 patch. Once I started playing again I made a Blademaster, which I'm very satisfied with.
 
  
  There is a good variety of enemies, although some you tend to run into far too often, like zombies 
 and various types of imps. The levels are randomly generated which enhances replay value. There 
 is also a good variety of armor, weapons and upgrade items. It's fun collecting loot and upgrading 
 it. However, much of the loot you collect needs to be identified with an analyzer to fully reveal 
 its properties. I know this is a staple of the genre, but I've never been a fan of this mechanism. 
 Analyzers are cheap so you can buy them in bulk so it's rarely a matter of not having one handy 
 to scan an item. It's just that doing so is tedious and interrupts the flow of gameplay without 
 adding anything of value to the experience.
  
  Even with the latest patch there are issues. I've experienced hard lockups and outright BSOD crashes 
 with the game. I suppose that could be due to my particular computer configuration, although to 
 judge from the forums I'm not the only one experiencing these issues. You can earn points for completing 
 certain objectives, like attaining a level in a set amount of time, destroying a certain number 
 of objects, killing a certain number of types of enemies, and so on. However, there is nothing 
 to spend these points on - this and the ongoing technical issues indicate that the game was rushed 
 to market. 
  
  The storyline isn't interesting and is barely coherent in parts. The individual quest objectives 
 are largely mundane and don't add anything to the overall game experience. If you're looking for 
 a good story driven RPG you'll want to look elsewhere.
  
  The most frustrating part of this game is that it could have been great if it had stayed in development 
 awhile longer. It was clearly rushed out the door before it was ready, which doesn't make me very 
 sorry for the fact that the game didn't sell to expectations and the company basically went belly 
 up. Still, I had high expectations for this game and although it is still fun to play it could 
 have been so much better. I would have tried the online mode but $10/month seemed steep just for 
 the liberty of playing with a friend now and then. I know there were added quests in the online 
 mode but since the quests were all of the "go here, kill this, collect that" variety this hardly 
 matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanils
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good example in trying to be everything to everyone and failing in almost every 
 way. This game meant to be a RPG, MMO, FPS and a RTS and ended up being a mediocre game. 
  
  I was wrong of thinking that the bugs would be fixed in time and that updates would make this 
 game awesome. Patches after patches things were getting worst with no sign of getting better. 
 
  
  First time through the game is actually pretty fun since killing lots and lots of dumb monsters 
 rushing at you can be quite fun but Nightmare mode made me not want to play that game again. 
 
  
  My guild keep me playing for a while but soon people were leaving the game and nothing was keeping 
 me playing. The Stonehenge expansion was over within days and no additional content was added afterward. 
 
  
  All in all check you bargain bin for a cheap copy of Hellgate London and play it offline since 
 the servers are coming down next January. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3one
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  This isn't a bad game, it's just not a great game. It has some interesting ideas in that there 
 are several different classes to chose from to play. Unfortunately everything else is the same. 
 All the levels, all the quests, all the ememies...
  
  There is an online multiplayer mode which lets you play with others but it's the same missions 
 and quests as the single player mode.
  
  At the standard difficulty the game is pretty easy. Missions and quests are very straight forward 
 and provide not real challenge. Go here, kill XX number of XX, return for reward.
  
  For a game of this time, visually, it's good. But after a while everything looks the same as most 
 of the game takes place underground in old subway tunnels. Even when above ground things look the 
 same and I found myself using the map to navigate myself around most times.
  
  There are plenty of items but most of them are useless since the game is so easy at the normal 
 setting. I found myself selling most of what I find since I only use just one or two weapons for 
 most encounters. You rack up a lot of money this way.
  
  I purchased the game on sale for $24.99 at a Bestbuy store and would have been dissapointed had 
 I paid more. But for that price, it gave me a little entertainment value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nagol726
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  As you may know this game was created by some of the same crew that made the diablo series though 
 they are not with blizzard anymore. From that i expected something great, the outcome, lacking... 
 what went wrong? 
  
  The game offers a somewhat boring story line with a little amount of cut scenes to add to the shallow 
 story. there isnt a ton of progression.
  
  the gameplay wasnt what i was hoping for. Sword play is nice but gun play is unsatisfying. theres 
 isnt anything to the guns. NO POWER. Hard bosses is a nice thing. there are some satisfying boss 
 battles, and unique items. 
  
  Graphics.. iffy. at times things look pretty good, other times things dont look so good. the maps 
 lack any real taste for good design and after awile things start to look the same. 
  
  What did i expect? Have you ever played diablo? i sure have and i have gotten so addicted i just 
 couldnt stop until i got through one more act and it went on that way. i was hoping for that. Ahhh 
 didnt find it bummer. 
  
  what did i get? i got a game which lacks depth, satisfying gameplay, and ultimately the addictiveness. 
 It wasnt all bad. but as you can see im more of a pessimist 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkelf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely unique in its own having a special feel to it with hell taking over and 
 the domination of mankind seeming do be the only unwanted outcome. 
  
  You take on the role as a holy human Templar fighting for the very right to save mankind. As you 
 fight your way through this clever designed world you get a wide variety of classes and skills 
 to use against your enemy, making it a pretty fun hack and slash/shoot em up type game. The levels 
 are intense with multitudes of creatures to blow up or chop in half as it seems they are helpless 
 to stand up to your might. As you progress through the almost similarly designed levels to the 
 ones that you just beat all your doing is adding to the death toll, dominating what seems thousands 
 of beasts and several tuff bosses.
  
  The weapon design and customization is awesome and one of the high points in this game adding and 
 substituting different mods and specs to your weapon making it truly unique and powerful... if you 
 have the money. The equipment all around such as armor and designs are pretty cool showing off 
 some of EA's creative side. Once you get all armored up and suited up with your powerful creations 
 you take on ordinary quests that are limited to the storyline and cant progress unless you further 
 the game : (. Although, you do get to come back and beat the crap outta the same levels you previously 
 came through and owned. 
  
  The game is fun and will keep you busy but its not great. I dont suggest a purchase of this game 
 unless you can handle and appreciate the replay value, which is decent seeing how its a totally 
 new game everytime you play it. THe character NPCs are funny and there is a comical side to the 
 game portraying the "laugh to lighten the mood" feel seeing how all is doomed and there seems to 
 be no hope. All around I give EA a good but not great 7 and hope the next installment can have 
 extremely better graphics and more freedom style game play similar to that of a MMORPG. 
  
  THX Monkelf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _DeadlyFred_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I remember when this game was first announced I was really excited: first-person shooter with RPG 
 elements? Demons and gates to hell? Why yes please! That was how I remember it originally being 
 portrayed. When talk started coming about about MMOG, Diablo and subscription costs, I pretty much 
 lost interest.
  
  The subscription aspect of the game was probably the worst idea it had. Hellgate is not a true 
 MMOG. It uses the same sort of setup as Guild Wars does with stations (towns) acting as virtual 
 game lobbies where players can party up and then go off into individual, isolated play areas. Though 
 the party system is far more intuitive in Hellgate, but more on that later.
  
  Much like Guild Wars, on-line play in and of itself is entirely free, however, rather than offering 
 content upgrades in per-package paid installments, the only way to get them was (as the subscription 
 service is currently defunct) to pay $10 every month. I'm not a fan of per-month games to begin 
 with, but it seems incredibly stupid to be paying for a free game, with an additional trickle of 
 content upgrades.
  
  But enough on that as, give or take, the game plays the same way in either case.
  
  Hellgate 
 features a selection of 6 player classes though these actually represent only 3 unique types of 
 character. You have Hunters (Marksman/Engineer) , Cabalists (Summoner/Evoker) and Templar (Guardian/Blademaster) . 
 While each class has a unique skill tree, there are some shared skills between related classes 
 and only 3 unique equipment trees; So your Marksman and Engineer will be using the same types weapons 
 and armor. There is at least a pretty diverse amount of each to be found. Appearance customization 
 is the pretty standard fare, though the options are universal across all classes.
  
  Once you get to the gameplay you will notice almost immediately that the game is, in fact, laid 
 out pretty much identically to a MMORPG. You talk to people with glowy things over their heads 
 and then go collect X amount of X item and bring them back in the name of fame and fortune, for 
 the most part anyhow. So that much about the game is totally stock and should offer no surprises.
 
  
  What Hellgate really has going for it, in my opinion, is that it does not play like a MMORPG. You 
 play with "shooter" controls from either a first or 3rd person perspective, meaning that gameplay 
 actually involves moving and aiming at enemies rather than just clicking on things you want to 
 kill.
  
  This mundanity has always been one of the biggest aspects that turns me off to MMORPGS, its just 
 not engaging enough. Even though the underlying modus operandi is identical in Hellgate, the fact 
 that you have to manually and consciously obliterate your enemies rather than just clicking on 
 things makes the whole experience much less redundant and boring.
  
  The only real drawback to this control scheme is that most of your skills will still only be accessed 
 through the standard 1-0 keys, meaning you will have to stop moving to execute them; though remapping 
 some keys can ameliorate the issue a bit. Additionally, Hellgate features "context use" for skills 
 and items, accessed by the Shift and Ctrl keys respectively. For instance, if your health gets 
 low, you will be prompted to hit Ctrl in order to use a health injector. Low power? It will prompt 
 you to use a powerpack.
  
  The skill side of it works slightly less elegantly as the actual conditions for using some skills 
 is inconsistent but, if you run up to an enemy and have a melee attack skill opted for context 
 use (most of your skills can be toggled for context use from the skills menu) , you'll usually be 
 prompted to hit Shift if you wish to execute it. Its not a flawless system, but it usually works 
 well enough and can help to reduce dependency on your static skill slots.
  
  A somewhat more reliable feature is the ability to bind skills within your weapons sets. Each of 
 your 3 weapon slots is bound, by default to use your left weapon with the left mouse button and 
 right weapon with the right mouse button, but either key can be assigned with any skill. This is 
 quite useful for things like say, a sniper rifle; allowing you to fire the weapon with one button 
 and activate the Marksman's Sniper skill by clicking the other.
  
  Loot and all its related nuances is handled pretty much the same has most other games in the same 
 style, so there is nothing especially remarkable there. Hellgate does feature plenty of potential 
 for modifying weapons and even give you the ability to remove mods for a small fee, so you never 
 have to worry about one going to waste (the game will even prompt you before you sell a weapon 
 with a mod attached) .
  
  As said before, the party system is one where the game really shines. Using the ingame buddy list 
 you can instantly party up with anyone, anywhere and then warp directly to their location, no matter 
 where they are. Unlike the instanced gameplay in Guild Wars, party members in Hellgate remain entirely 
 autonomous. So you can go where ever you want and not worry about dragging your friends along before 
 they're ready. If you do get left behind, the "party portal" is only a click away and will whisk 
 you directly to your teammates. While people hopping through little blue portals all the time might 
 be a little silly, it works wonders for gameplay and makes teamplay in Hellgate smooth and plainless.
 
  
  So, what exactly is wrong with this game? Well, to be honest, the environments can start to get 
 a little redundant after a while. Although with random instance generation, you will at least get 
 to see the same broken lamp post on the other side of the same desolate piece of roadway. The levels 
 look nice, at least And the randomized aspect helps them from being total deja vu. Still, a little 
 more variety would have been welcome.
  
  The skill trees and class variety are both a little underwhelming, though still mostly solid. It's 
 also bit of a shame that only two classes have any access to melee weapons, as the melee classes 
 can still use a selection of ranged weaponry.
  
  Hellgate does have a bit of a "stillborn" feeling to it, in some aspects. But in others, and specifically 
 the core design and gameplay, it is well-fleshed, solid and usable. Its not a perfect game but 
 it brings a lot of good ideas to the table and presents a unique twist on an ostensibly derivative 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  this game was severely rushed.. thats why i give it a 5.0 the best thing about this game is the 
 soundtrack which the game doesnt really utilize that well... Sonic Mayhem is the studio and the 
 band that did the music, as well as all the music for quake 2 and 3. great music. but the game 
 isnt really bad its just very unfinished. it has atmosphere and mood to degrees. but the gameplay 
 mechanics are flawed. the graphics arent bad at all, and the frame rate hardly encounters problems.. 
 it has alot to do with the character animations, and AI not very good at all, and very disappointing, 
 but if you can pick it up for about 10-15 dollars it is good, just be sure to get the collectors 
 edition because it comes with the soundtrack and thats honestly the best part of the game. though 
 i do like some of the weapons and whatnot of the game, but it gets a little repetitive but most 
 hack-n-slash games do, well this to me is a hack-n-slash/fps lol but iit still falls under that 
 category. just wish that blizzard north aka flagship studios put as much effort and time into this 
 as they did diablo and starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIronLotus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  When i started to play this game i was immediatly blown away at the opening scene. The demons that 
 jumped onto the car as they raced to the church as well as firing shots upward at a swooping blood 
 angel made me want to jump right into the action.
  
  ... however this was not what i found when i started to play.
  
  the majority of the game is 
 played through different subway stations and in, what looks like, the exact same zone. 
  
  The biggest problem i found in hellgate london was that nothing really seemed to change. You will 
 go on meaningless tasks to get armor and items that you will have looted better than and its just 
 tedious.
  
  Also the fact that the enviornment hardly changes at all is a huge dissapointment, making me not 
 want to play the game over again and making it very hard to finish. 
  
  Overall this game just didn't go well with me... read the book, its suprisingly good! but the game, 
 not so much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out very nicely, u expect things to get better, but they only get worse. 
  
  The Good:
  I'll start with good stuff first, since its pretty short.
  Graphics are quite 
 good. I play at max detail, 1280x1024, winxp dx9 mode and framerate keeps at 60. Enemies look decent.. 
 tho there are only a few handful of mdels. 
  Loot is pretty good. A lot of ways to customize your weapons and armor. And ugh thats about it.
 
  
  The Bad:
  Oh boy where to start. How about every level is as interesting as staring at a painted wall. Just 
 because its random created doesnt mean its unique. They only have about 6 different type of buildings 
 and walking down any street u get a LOT of deja-vu. Same goes for enemies. Same goes for weapons. 
 Same goes for armor. Music and ambient sounds are missing for most part. Sometimes it feels as 
 if your soundcard stopped working. 
  
  The Ugly:
  What really killed the game for me was the way the story progressed. In essence, you reach a subway 
 station (think of them as towns) , talk to NPC, get new quests which involve going through 2-3 levels 
 to reach next station and maybe kill a boss along the way. It sounds good but OH MY GOD are the 
 NPC horrible! They jump about, wave their arms, babble random and totally unrelated things while 
 u are left to read dialog boxes. This leaves NO motivation to keep playing the game. And the fact 
 that most weapons feel totally underpowered and they dont do any real damage makes you just wanna 
 pull your hair. 
  
  Its quite amazing how such effort on graphics and multiplayer is ruined by total lack of immersion. 
 There havent been many games that lost my interest this fast. Sure there is always will to keep 
 going to get better gear, but to what end?
  
  Overall: 4/10 (3 for good graphics and 1 for lots of loot) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your a guy. kill some demons
  
  Missions: Quests ranging from get back a childs leg to killing giant bosses.
  
  Controls: Standard 
 FPS controls with a little learning curve to the commands
  
  Features: New MMO style, ok sound and graphics are great
  
  AI: Crappy. They dont know how to 
 fight at all. makes the game easy
  
  Graphics:. Very very good. dx10 is PRETTY. Enviroments are very detailed and look great. Gun models 
 look like crap
  
  
  Audio: Amazing voice acting and music makes this sound a masterpiece. The voice acting is very 
 professional and the battle sounds make you feel like your actually in londan killing baddies.
 
  
  Multiplayer: A whole nother game. a MMO. i didnt get to play it actually.
  
  Requirements: Mouse and Keyboard, be pretty good at tactical shooters
  
  The Good: Good Graphics 
 and Audio
  
  The Bad: Some crazy bugs in the game.
  
  The Ugly: way overhyped
  
  Replay Ability: Medium
  
  The Bottom Line: A ok game with great graphics that MIGHT entertain 
 you for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teroristen
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  I played it for a short time. but I think it is wasted time for it is nothing they promisd it would 
 be. AND on top of that u also need to pay for the multy, last thing I heard. readly I think they 
 have made to much commotion about it or they made the game in the end TOTALLY wrong. one of both, 
 either way I don't like it. 
  
  I have to say though when I started playing I was a little impressed. because there were so many 
 different buildings. but after I entered the 3e map I saw something that made that go away. for 
 I saw for the 3e time the same buildings and again for the same time that car. or that bus or what 
 ever. there is little change of objects. and it is all so dead. there can be SOMETHING that is 
 still alive. 
  
  I think it is not only I dont like the game but it is also not my type of game... not whit all 
 the undead s and what ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midknyghte
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Incomplete, with quests that don't contribute to any specific storyline. Even the main quest line 
 lacks any kind of thought, as if it was thrown together at the last minute.
  
  How a game with such a basic and interesting concept can be this poorly executed is beyond me. 
 It's as if they were so concerned with the setting and the graphics that they forgot to work on 
 the story itself.... and then you realize the setting is painfully repetitive and and the graphics 
 are buggy. After just an hour or two of playing you will have seen all the maps the game has to 
 offer through the rest of your painfully bland journey. And as stated in so many other reviews, 
 where are the actual London locations that will make you feel like you are in an apocalyptic London?
 
  
  If you are an FPS player you will be disappointed in the shooter aspects of the game which are 
 not reflex based, and if you are a hack'n'slasher you will despise the Templar classes for their 
 blocky movement and bland attacks. 
  
  After seeing them give ALL the new content to "paying" customers I was glad to hear they were falling 
 apart. We should all be so lucky as to see them go bottoms up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  People are ridiculous. As of today, there are no notable bugs in the game that I've noticed all 
 the way up to level 20 with 2 characters.
  
  If you're reading this review you probably already know that the guys who made this game were the 
 same guys who made Diablo 2. Yes, really. And it is quite obvious when you see those skill trees 
 and the way you level up your stats manually, etc. The game is a sort of experiment however. The 
 creators described their original vision as Half-Life meets Diablo 2. It feels like that too.
 
  
  Well let's talk about why I gave it the score I did.
  
  Graphics - One of the first games to fully utilize DirectX 10. The graphics are still amazing on 
 max settings, but can be scaled back considerably to the point where my friend's Macbook integrated 
 graphics chipset can handle it just fine. The environments do feel recycled and limited; basically 
 you have sewers, dungeons, railways, hell, a museum, stonehenge, subway stations as towns, and 
 above ground city environments. Being that it's Hellgate: London and not Hellgate: The Whole World 
 Plus Space, people need to just accept that, like it or not, a lot of work went into the level 
 design as many of them are randomly generated, and they still look fantastic. 
  
  Sound - Sound is very effective in this game. My one complaint: I wish the machine guns were a 
 bit louder. Everything else is great. The noise you hear when you get shocked is very hard to miss. 
 Sound is used to great effect with surround sound support so you can hear those imps sneaking up 
 on you. You will also hear unique effects for every kind of poison in the game, as well as when 
 you get to low health. Visually, things get interesting there too.
  
  Controls - The controls are pretty solid but you really have to adapt to the fast paced style quickly 
 if you want to use all your skills to great effect. The ability to drag any skill to your right 
 or left click is a great feature. All other controls are responsive and slick and there's not much 
 bad to say there.
  
  Content and Value - Free online multiplayer and single player! You only pay if you want bonus cool 
 stuff, which is worth what they charge you. How much is that? Only $9.99, 5 dollars less than most 
 other MMOs like WoW. I love how you can add mods to weapons and you can use the nano-thingy and 
 the augmentrix or something to enhance your weapons and armor and add unique properties to them. 
 That's an awesome concept that is executed quite well, and that one you don't even have to pay 
 for.
  
  Gameplay - Fun alone, even more fun with friends. Intense, dark environments are fun to play in. 
 Endless possibilities for teams and character builds. Now the game is only about $20, and with 
 the easy Mail system added and new bonus content coming in all the time, now is the best time to 
 join.
  
  The bottom line is that, despite what you've heard about this game, the naysayers spoke prematurely. 
 Sure, some of them say $9.99 a month is too much for bonus material, or have legitimate complaints 
 about the game (which means nothing, by the way, I have legitimate complaints about WoW and many 
 other MMOs) , but generally what you hear is the same thing over and over again: The environments 
 are boring, the game is too easy, it's too much like Diablo 2". The environments are what they 
 are, and they look great and their appearances have been improved and made more unique several 
 times since Beta ended. If you think the game is too easy, try Elite Mode. Still too easy? Try 
 Elite Mode in Nightmare Mode. Still too easy (no!) ? Try all that in Hardcore mode. On the third 
 point, I do agree that it should've innovated more.
  
  Be sure to pay attention to some of the dialogue throughout the game. Some of it can be quite funny, 
 and others are very interesting. The story itself, if you care to notice, is more involved than 
 you might guess initially. The collector's edition comes with a comic that kind of gives you a 
 bit of background.
  
  The nice thing is that the infinite possibilities with weapons and armor, and the many game modes 
 adding endless replayability, coupled with the addicting fast-paced gameplay, makes this game a 
 truly entertaining experience. The material collecting and crafting adds a fun dynamic to building 
 new items, weapons, and armors as well.
  
  I do have some problems with the game and they will be listed here:
  -They could've strayed a 
 bit more from the Diablo 2 formula
  -Death penalties are unimpressive
  -No damage from falling long distances
  -Difficult to jump over imps and zombies if surrounded
 
  -Some properties of enhanced items are hard to understand... "Ignite Strength + 201" vs. "+10% 
 to Ignite damage"... What is the difference?
  -The resistance system is difficult to decipher at first, but it's pretty similar to D2 at heart
 
  -No hiding behind walls and shooting over your shoulder a la Splinter Cell or Mass Effect. That'd 
 add some needed depth.
  -No Auction House online that I know of
  -The game needs a tutorial of some kind, especially when it comes to the character sheet and item 
 stats. I still don't know which is more important between armor and shields.
  -It's 2008. Games should include at least one respec when you hit a higher level, but I don't think 
 this one does.
  -If I didn't happen to press "U" by accident I probably never would've known that you get "Specialties" 
 at level 50
  
  But those complaints aren't enough to stop anyone from playing the game, they're just things I 
 wish would be improved to make this great game even better. I could come up with a list 3x as long 
 for World of Warcraft. So could you. All in all we have great graphics, great sound, great gameplay, 
 great story, great customization, and some pretty sweet innovations. All-in-all, that's just a 
 great game, any way you look at it.
  
  Pick it up. For just 20 bucks, and no monthly fee, what're you waiting for? It's a lot better now 
 than it was at release when everyone was naysaying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerate
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for months for this game but when i finally played it man total letdown nothing 
 what i have expected T_T i just like the class and its Dx 10 graphics but the game play it gets 
 repetitive same levels. same back ground range weapons are weak the dual bladder Templar is very 
 very weak easily gets owned by the demons ugly effects , but the idea of the game was great but 
 it was not executed well if only the flagship guys would work together with blizzard again or maybe 
 Bethesda (oblivion) i just wasted good money on this and you should pay monthly for this game even 
 you have already bought the original game T_T  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippythezip
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  You dont buy this kind of game for the story, you get it for the kills and the thrill of up grading 
 your weapons. The game fills these needs perfectly. I got up to act 4 and just cant play it no more, 
 the weapons and armor have changed the maps and enemies never do. In the narrow streets you pass 
 a store or pub, a few stores down you pass it again.... and again..... and again..... even shows up 
 many times in other maps. One map is inside techs head, hated this maps and later when inside the 
 spacecraft its the same map, then there is the small squad map, what the ? If I wanted to play 
 mini soldiers I buy a different game. Some missions just suck, shoot down the alien craft, well 
 tape down the fire key and go make supper. Then two guys are standing at one end of the station, 
 one gives you a quest, then some guy down many turns and stairs give you another, away you go, 
 Yep you guessed it the guy standing next to the first guy gives you one, back you go........... yep 
 your right.... some guy next to far off guy gives you one, this goes on like this every station. 
 This game is good for a time but then you have to force yourself to carry on. I think there only 
 4 maps and about 20 enemies, I would give act1 9/10, act 2 7\10, act3 5/10 and act4 0/10
  Too boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Either my memories of Diablo are over phantasmagorical or the developers of Diablo really screwed 
 up this game.
  
  Okay saying "really" is an overstatement, but this game could have been better.
  
  Hellgate: 
 London is a graphically amazing game. The 3D engine, radomized maps, and great sound effects are 
 all the postives of this game. Furthermore, there are several different kinds of gruesome creatures 
 each with their own horrific sounds and appearances. The environment is very detailed.
  
  It ends here.
  
  The beta and game were no different. Hellgate needed a lot of patches. I am 
 writing in small sentences. I am quite dissapointed. Sure the first 5 hours were very intriging 
 and fun, but after that the repititions start to get to you. Voice acting helps the hopeless story. 
 I mean they could have done better of telling the story. But a book? I play games to stay away 
 from books. This game is really hell on earth (sorry another overstatement... I am just full of 
 them today) .
  
  Random RTS mission (the randomness of the sentences impasizes the randomness of the RTS mission... this 
 kind of "random one" is not good) .
  
  Mostly you find yourself running around doing seemingly same missions but with different names. 
 Money is easy to come by, but there is a problem about getting titles. Massive grind. It is too 
 much.
  
  If you want to play a MMO without a montly fee with some story, half decent graphics, a good community, 
 and a grind that is approached in a much better way play Guild Wars.
  
  Diablo fans should look somewhere else... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etheesdad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I was initially attracted by the Adult nature of the Witcher, and straight from 
 having played Oblivion, some inevitable comparisons arise. 
  
  There's some interesting storyline, and some great looking graphics in the game, which make it 
 very attractive in those respects. However, the inventory system completely sucks - I wont go into 
 great detail but when you're selling items, you have to double click them and the default setting 
 is to sell 1 item. If you want to sell more than that you have to click an additional slider and 
 then click ok. This can be VERY ANNOYING if you want to sell, say, 10 different types of item, 
 each of which you own more than 1 of. 
  
  There's more, but the game should never have been released with the inventory in this state. Items 
 icons are very small, and they are hard to differentiate from one another. You have to hover the 
 mouse over them and a black popup appears with the details of what you are looking at. its a cumbersome 
 method and difficult to read. 
  
  There's no option for thievery (such a big component of Oblivion) and no options for stealth. Basically 
 you walk into peoples houses and take whatever you want from their cupboards. Apparently they hate 
 witchers, so its inconsistent from the storyline and detracts from the immersiveness of the gameplay
 
  
  Another annoyance is that often you click on items in the game and nothing happens. It often took 
 me 3 or 4 clicks to be able to talk to characters or interact with items. The version of the game 
 I was playing was 1.3 (third patch since release) , and I would have thought fixing this would have 
 been a priority. its a big frustration and really detracts from the gameplay. 
  
  The npc's are only based around a few models, and most of the characters look exactly the same 
 for their type (all the whores look the same, all the priests look the same, etc etc) , so you feel 
 like you're interacting with the same character over and over, which really detracts from your 
 immersion in the story. 
  
  This game renminded me of Gothic, in terms of what id call a 'dumbed down rpg'. If you liked Gothic 
 or Gothic II then chances are you'll like the Witcher. If you're looking for any complexity - most 
 of the quests are pretty easy to solve, there's only one character type - so character development 
 options are pretty limited - and the first section of the game is almost entirely linear. (this 
 improves in the later sections where more quest options open up)
  
  This could have been a really good game. all the basic elements were there - storyline, good game 
 engine, excellent graphics and locations. What lets it down is its poor interface, lack of character 
 choice, the strange capacity to take whatever you want from whomever you want, the lack of effort 
 to create more graphically diverse npc's, and some annoying interface glitches. 
  
  If you're looking for something like Oblivion, this aint in the same league. If you just want to 
 do some whoring and dungeon bashing without thinking too much, you may enjoy "the witcher" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  When this game was coming out, and I saw the videos, and screenshots, I thought it was going to 
 blow me away. I first started playing it, and the graphics were decent, but I soon saw it was not 
 nearly cranked up for all it could be. The game play grows boring in a little while, the online 
 play is not really that fun. The game play itself isn't really all that catching either.
  
  I am sure some people will be able to play this game for a while, but I am not one of them. It's 
 not a bad game or anything, just not really a 'great' game. I guess we'll call it decent. I guess 
 you could give it a try, you might get lucky and get pulled in. It was fun for a little while, 
 I have to give it that. Was a newer kind of experience, but it gets old fast.
  
  Just don't expect great things out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I was planning on reviewing this game after patch 2.1 with the new abyss content and pvp feature. 
 However, if you haven't heard Flagship Studios just fired almost all their employees and looks 
 like Hellgate will no longer accept subscribers, and will probably never release any further patches. 
 Probably not long before they shut down the servers. The only chance is if another company buys 
 them out and takes over. Until then, I wouldn't bother buying this game unless you want to play 
 single player casually.
  
  As for the game, the graphics are excellent. Everyone talks about Age of Conan graphics, but Hellgate 
 offers awesome detail in their armor and weapon loot, and some tile sets look breath taking the 
 first time you see them. However, you get sick of them quick since there are only 12 or so tile 
 sets in the whole game. They keep reusing tile sets you already played from lvl 1 all the way to 
 max lvl of 50. Also, there is only enough content in the game to get you to lvl 30. What they did 
 to fix this was to let you restart the game at in nightmare mode which is basically playing the 
 game all over with the monsters starting at lvl 30. 
  
  If you subscribe, you get access to new content like stonehenge and new content every quarter (no 
 longer the case see above) . Stonehenge seemed to be more open vs the clausterphobic subway tunnels 
 in the main game. Stonehenge once again basically used old tile sets and just tweaked them up a 
 bit. It was very disappointing, but the quests in stonehenge were fun and it was a step in the 
 right direction.
  
  The gameplay is very solid and fun. The inventory was a pain though, it seemed like you had to 
 break down weapons every 5 minutes. This needed much improvement. I did like the mods you could 
 add to weapons and the nanoforge allowing you to increase the lvl of your weapons so you could 
 keep them as you lvl up for a little bit longer. Also, you could add rare or legendary powers to 
 your weapons for a heavy cost. I thought this was a great idea and would like to see it again in 
 future games. 
  
  Overall, the game is actually very fun and the loot is awesome. The only problem was not enough 
 variety and content to want to make most people subscribe. The game offers singleplayer offline 
 and free multiplayer, but you really should subscribe to get the extra content and subscriber weapons 
 and larger stash (remember servers may go down soon) . They should have had enough content to get 
 to lvl 50 without replaying the game, they also should have had PVP and many more group dungeons 
 to explore. In a year or two this game would be much more than it is now, but unless someone else 
 takes over this game is already dead. With the game the way it is now I give it 7.5, but if production 
 hadn't stopped and there was a future to look forward to I would probably give it a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltcsas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  The game is lots of fun to play but you'll soon find that there is no depth beneath the surface. 
 I highly anticipated Hellgate because I was waiting for a Diablo-like game to play. When I started 
 playing I really enjoyed the game because it was fast and full of good-looking action. But when 
 the game progressed I seriously began to feel the lack of real story and depth. I was uninspired 
 by the quests, they were usually without any excitement and there were no real sense of achievement 
 after accomplishment. 
  The fights are good enough and the character classes differ completely adding a replay value to 
 the game, but the lack of interesting story and NPCs make the game seem an endless demo of some 
 sorts.
  And somehow the game works, maybe the setting or the character classes make me want to play. Because 
 it is a real treat to play as a mighty templar, a fast hunter or a cunning cabalist, it is fun 
 to gather the loot, to look for better and bigger weapons, armor.
  But after a while the game stops being attractive because the world and the characters are boring, 
 and it may even happen that you forget about the whole game when you discover another with more 
 depth and content.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacnar
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  When it first came out, Hellgate London was buggy and had some serious issues. With the updates 
 it is quite playable and fun. When you find some friends online and create a balanced party, it 
 is quite fun. Most of the missions are the basic go here and kill this, or the collect that and 
 bring them back, but it can still be quite fun. There are enough different character classes to 
 keep it mixed up and interesting. On the bad side, most of the maps are reused in different places, 
 which can get a little tedious. The subscriber fee I think is a bad thing. From what I have seen 
 online, some of the things that they make subscriber only, I think should be part of the regular 
 game. The ranged weapons don't seem to have enough punch. A few don't really seem to do much at 
 all. Over all it is a lot of fun and is a good way for you and your friends to get you RPG fix 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeaR_tr
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  im a lover of vampire bloodlines. and hellgate london reminds me troika's tragic story but both 
 of them good with patches. cause there are many bugs in both of them. but hellgate is really good 
 sci fi rpg amazing ideas, nice graphics, pretty good atmosphere and other good creative things. But 
 its great with patches. i never seen a great rpg after vampires: bloodlines. Hellgate is pretty. And 
 other thing is morrowing was a great game but i didn't like the oblivion. It'isnt got that soul 
 or somethin boring. And hellgate made it as good. there are very. There are many high commerced 
 high funded but very simple game and hellgate isnt like this. its fun. And i think before fallout 
 3 after vampire bloodlines best action rpg is hellgate london. I'm playing now mass effect and i 
 didnt any comment before i finished it. But it seems very very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  So I bought Hellgate London on the only day it was on sale in the local gameshop here. I paid very 
 very little for it so I was not going to NOT buy it. That said I had watched the trailers and the 
 intro and had read plenty of reviews about it before this moment and I had kinda reserved my opinion 
 to "It probably sucks hard".
  
  So after installing it and playing it for some time my first opinion of it was "AWESOME!" and that 
 pretty much set the tone for the time I spent playing it for the first and second day. The thing 
 is, this feeling does not last very long. 
  
  Killing large batches of creatures is fun and will always be fun ESPECIALLY if you play with friends. 
 However it is not enough to keep you glued to this game for very long, mainly because you never 
 actually feel powerfull. It is the feeling that is missing from this game, you know you are powerfull 
 but you never feel it. Let me explain.
  
  Serious Sam has you walk about plain-jane levels killing HORDES AND HORDES of monsters, you are 
 litterally packed from floor to ceiling in monsters, the more players joining you the more monsters 
 spawn and then it gets insane. The weapons you use hose down the monsters really easily and you 
 feel the power, your screen shakes, the kick back is there and recoil is great. Hellgate london 
 misses this and pays for it dearly.
  
  The graphics are pretty, the lighting is pretty, the shadows are dark and scary. Some glitches 
 like not being able to shoot down from a platform unless you jump on the hand rail, enemy shadows 
 appearing on the roof from the floor above, occasional jittering corpses. All of this happens on 
 the top of a line machine like mine so even if your hardware is good, the game still has major 
 bugs. The levels are also too repetitious, same levels over and over just a different spawn spot 
 each time. That is poor development.
  
  However there are many classes in the game and you can be either sex for each class, the gear is 
 plentifull and random and various, the customisation of your gear is pretty great but playing for 
 gear alone is a little silly and pointless when there is nothing else to back it up.
  
  Play it by all means and have fun, just have in your mind that it is a stop-gap game or something 
 temporary until something better comes along, it will never be a great game but it really really 
 had the opportunity to be. Shame really.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy4Ever
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  +Loads of variety in weapons and monsters. Loads of easter eggs for fans of games including Diablo 
 and Super Mario. Loads of fun.
  +Terrific DX10 support.
  -A lot of bugs that include game crashes, lag, or system hangs.
  -Tilesets get repetitive after 
 a while.
  
  Fans of Diablo, rejoice! For this is the game that we've been waiting for. Hellgate: London is 
 brought to you straight from the makers of Blizzard's Diablo. Diablo was pretty much their game 
 before World of Warcraft. If you were to pop in your Diablo II disc, you'll still find thousands 
 to game with. The story isn't where it's about. It's the loot. Most role-playing games are so involved 
 in the story that you really don't get to enjoy the action. It's basically like opening a fantasy 
 novel and reading it, only with colorful pictures. Diablo is really just based on action, destruction, 
 and treasures. With these features alone, Diablo is a near-perfect series, so it's no surprise 
 that Hellgate: London is really fun.
  
  Hellgate is based on a post-apocalyptic London. The rest of the world has already been taken over 
 by demons from Hell, but London is the break away part of the story. You're mission in the game 
 is solely to just save London. The rest of the world can wait. The game is broken down into 5 different 
 acts, each getting harder and containing more quest. The environments are different per act, although, 
 one of the problems with the game is lack of difference. For instance, in the first act, you may 
 be fighting off a bunch of zombies in a gone-to-hell (excuse the pun) subway, but in act two, you'll 
 be in the same subway. The difference is very small too. In the second subway, you may just notice 
 harder bosses, a small change up in how it looks, and maybe an extra room. I guess so many years 
 of playing dungeon crawlers, you just want to get out of the dungeons. While the dungeon areas 
 are small, the out doors are (although the same as well) are just much more exciting looking. During 
 some of the levels, you get a chance to enter a hellgate, which leads you into an arena with several 
 monsters, not excluding bosses. At the center of the arena is either a chest full of (usually) 
 junky treasures, a quest objective, or a portal into the abyss.
  
  The different characters classes are really impressive. You have basically a variety of three different 
 types of characters, and six overall classes. First you have the Templar. They're the guys, according 
 to the story, who knew about the events of the hellgates and demon take overs forever, but were 
 called crazy by the locals. They're going to be the good, old school swords and shields characters. 
 One character is more shield and sword based, while the other is focused on doing maximum damage, 
 even as to wielding two swords. Next, you have your Cabalist, which are more of the magic classes. 
 You have your basic spell casting characters, or your summoning characters which can summon a horde 
 of beast to fight with. Lastly, you'll have your more modern grunt men, which are going to be the 
 guys walking around with guns. The unique thing about the gun-class characters is that they can 
 be viewed using a more first person perspective. The difference between the two choices here is 
 one is just a gun totting class, while the other (engineer) is more of a robot building version 
 of the summoner.
  
  The rarity of the game is what makes the experience of Hellgate extremely fun. Sure, the tilesets 
 may need some changing from time to time, but there's definitely a good amount of variety in the 
 loot that drops, as well as the beasts that drop them. When fighting a group of zombies, you may 
 encounter a Rare zombie (which will be the only one with lettering above it's head) or an Epic 
 zombie. Killing these zombies will ultimately give you more experience, and toughen the game up 
 for some. The drops are usually pretty good, but it's overall about the challenge at this point. 
 Let's examine the variety in weapons you get. If you pick up a common (green) helmet, you'll examine 
 it and it will reveal it's true stats to you. Usually, you can pick up the same helmet over and 
 over, examine it, and each time it will be different. But that's not all. You'll also be able to 
 upgrade that helmet, using broken pieces of other equipment you've picked up (and broken down to 
 it's lowest form) . Still not impressed? Most items also can be socketed, giving you a base stat, 
 base specials, and then allowing you to place in your own specials. Still not impressed? Well, 
 you don't know what to do with all that money just sitting in your bank? How about turning that 
 common into a legendary item (orange) ? That's pretty cool. The same happens for the types of monsters 
 you fight. Some of the monsters you encounter will have different types of resistance and specials 
 they can use against you. It keeps the game changing each time you enter an area. Another neat 
 aspect on the rarity portion of this game is the mini-game you play without knowing it. In your 
 bottom right corner, there's always three icons displaying different icons (teeth, pentagons, fire, 
 etc..) , each displaying a set number. If you happen to figure out how to read the icons, finishing 
 a mini game will reward you with hefty treasures for completing them, giving the game a little 
 more bang.
  
  One of the best aspects of the game, aside from really entertaining achievements, is the easter 
 eggs. I actually think it's worth noting the easter eggs in a separate paragraph for the purpose 
 of fully examining these wonders. During battles, you'll notice pipes or passage ways through the 
 ground. If you enter these, it loads a new area, some that are just full of coins, then you exit 
 out of another pipe. Sound familiar? This is a homage the designers put in to Super Mario's treasure 
 pipes. Sometimes you'll encounter rare monsters to fight that end up dropping good coinage and 
 gear. Some of the other easter eggs include just talking to the characters in the game. You'll 
 end up hearing references to several other games, mainly their own Diablo. One of the first quest 
 you get is helping a child recover his wooden leg (that can be used as a weapon) from a beast. 
 For those unfamiliar with Diablo II, you use Wort's Leg to uncover a hidden cow level in the game. 
 It's a funny level and full of treasures, as well as one of the quickest ways to level up your 
 character. I'm not sure as of yet, but I'm waiting for the opening of a portal to a new version 
 of the cow level. Lastly, one of my favorite easter eggs is homage to a video game icon known to 
 PC gamers as Coconut Monkey. In December 2007's PC Gamer, there's a code in the magazine that gives 
 you an unlock for an in-game pet known to readers of the magazine as Coconut Monkey. It is the 
 future, so this time around, Coconut Monkey is floating around and looking pretty dead, but that 
 is just the coolest in-game pet since the baby Diablo or Zergs from World of Warcraft.
  
  As far as the graphics, there's really good, even on a DirectX 9 video card. Using a DirectX 10 
 video card is what it's all about though. The game looks really sweet with it's advanced motion 
 blur and lighting, however, it comes at a cost of performance. The overall experience with the 
 graphics are nice, but there's some errors. For instance, the game really tries to load too much 
 at once sometimes, most noticeable in the subway stations. The game really has a problem with just 
 too much being on the screen at once, and with it being a DirectX 10 built game, that will definitely 
 cause some systems to bog down. During the instances (or any battle areas) , you'll usually play 
 the game lag free. The only times I noticed more slow down was during battles where the friendly 
 AI units helped you, mainly because the game pours too many on screen at once. Overall though, 
 the game runs really well, and it should be playable on a system even running some of the oldest 
 hardware (although, it will cost you in overall quality in a big way) . Aside from visuals, the 
 audio is near perfect. There's not a lot of voice acting, which should have been added, but the 
 musical score is perfect. It's not overall annoying, and it plays when your is a hint system.
 
  
  
  The bugs that are in the game are highly annoying, and will (and from seeing from the player reviews, 
 have) turn people away from the game. Don't discourage though. The company is new. The engine is 
 new. The network is new. You're helping start a new company, so you can't expect perfection. However, 
 the one bug that annoyed me most of all in the beta was the system hanging while quitting the game. 
 This bug is still available. Most of the bugs are just that. There's a few generic bugs in the 
 game. One being when you start the game up in multiplayer, it will usually pop up with a "Network 
 error" bug, but after you click okay and sign in, it's fine. One of the biggest problems I personally 
 have with the game is lag. I understand it's new, but I'm really having a problem with server lag. 
 I'm sure this will be worked out by Christmas.
  
  Lastly, there's an optional subscription fee that players may want to jump into, although I don't 
 recommend it. The only thing it really adds is harder difficulty levels, a few more pieces of armor 
 and sword, and a PVP mode. The PVP would have been nice, but I can live without this round of hack-n-slash. 
 The fee isn't too pricey for only $10, but still, it's a great game without spending the money 
 per month.
  
  Overall, this game will keep you entertained for hours. The game play alone, from beginning to 
 end, is a good 40 hours. Even though the level cap is at 50, you won't be hitting it in that time 
 being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London is an action-packed RPG in the tradition of the Diablo series. It feature both 
 a lengthy single-player campaign and an online, multi-player mode. I would recommend buying this 
 game for the single-player mode alone. It can last up to 40-plus hours. It's a hell of a lot of 
 fun. If you like to explore games and want to play as different characters, it could last you months.
 
  
  As the minions of Hell go about their business of ruling the planet, an organized resistance is 
 formed, taking cover in the London underground. And we literally mean underground. Sewers, tunnels, 
 subways, and other subterranean regions are connected through a maze of corridors in which these 
 freedom fighters live and travel. Missions will have characters occasionally return to the Earth's 
 surface to perform various quests and battle hordes of demons. The gameplay is streamlined for 
 action. It's fast-paced with plenty of combat, dungeon crawling, and leveling-up.
  
  The resistance is comprised of three main groups: The Templar, the Cabal, and the highly trained 
 military known as The Hunters. There are six different classes to choose from, two in each group. 
 Each class has its own unique skills and attributes. The Marksman and the Engineer belong to the 
 Hunters faction. They are skilled at ranged combat and exploit the latest technologies for their 
 weapons, armor, and other gadgets. Weapons such as the sniper rifle will require the most skills 
 to use effectively as there is no lock-on for aiming. If you're a shooter fan, then the Marksman 
 is the class for you. Other weapons, including magic spells, don't require manual aiming. Most 
 employ a lock-on system for targeting the most immediate threat, and other weapons such as bombs, 
 electrical charges, and fire blasts will have a large destruction radius resulting in lots of collateral 
 damage.
  
  The Cabalist makes use of both science and magic. The Evoker and the Summoner use dark magic to 
 conjure and control various demons and spells. These classes are best thought of as middle-of-the-road 
 classes, and are definitely a good starting point for beginners. The Blademaster and the Guardian 
 belong to the Templars. They are highly skilled at melee combat and will see the most intense action 
 of all of the classes. The Blademaster is best used for offensive attacks as it's the only character 
 that can wield two weapons at the same time. If it's hack and slash action that you're looking 
 for, the Blademaster is the cutting edge choice! The Guardian plays it safer with more a defensive 
 approach, using armor and shields to protect against an enemy attack.
  
  Hellgate: London is never the same game twice. The dungeons and other levels are all randomly generated, 
 which has its good and bad points. On the plus side, it keeps the game from becoming too predictable. 
 You never know what lies around the next corner. Loot is also randomly generated. You'll find all 
 kinds of goodies from armor to weapons that you can add to your inventory, which I should mention 
 allows you to carry a generous portion of items. However, managing your inventory manually can 
 be a huge chore. But while it can be fun to find these items, there is no real sense of reward 
 for having earned them. It all seems to be the luck of the draw. The only real reward comes in 
 the form of leveling-up after you've done battle with an enemy or completed a task.
  
  Even with the randomly generated levels and dungeons, after a few hours you are more than aware 
 that things have been mixed up just for the sake of them being mixed up. You will still have to 
 deal with the same enemies, just at different locations in the dungeons. Some of the orders of 
 events seem to have no sense of context such as when you face the strongest enemy first when you 
 have all your powers, only to face the weaker ones after you have leveled up and you can't possibly 
 lose. Monsters, demons, he-beasts, she-beasts, and other frightening anomalies such as hovering 
 eyeballs will attempt to thwart your progress at every turn. They possess different attack patterns 
 which will challenge your reflexes, even at ranged distances. These creatures will crawl, lunge, 
 run, fly, float, and attempt to ambush you from the shadows using stealth techniques. Monsters 
 that don't personally attack will launch a multitude of projectiles. You can defend yourself with 
 a shield or just dodge the incoming fire.
  
  Eventually you will be able to discern the different demons' attack patterns and initiate the various 
 moves required to neutralize the threat. The character models are imaginative but perhaps a bit 
 too diverse. There's not much consistency with the demons.
  
  The Boss battles are as challenging as they are refreshing. It's nice to find a character that 
 has different, and more deadly' attack patterns. The melee characters fare better in boss battle 
 because of the close proximity to its weaknesses. For the money, I enjoy the immediacy and instant 
 gratification of melee combat with the Blademaster or the Guardian.
  
  Environments are a little repetitive. You'll see the same textures, tunnels, streets, corridors, 
 and ruins again and again. In the multi-player mode, you will get to meet other players in the 
 various connecting underground junctions. Here you will be able to meet and greet other players 
 as well as swap and shop your loot. Once you enter into a multi-player game, you'll revisit the 
 levels that you played in the single-player mode. The multi-player component helps to lessen the 
 feeling of deja vu, but the latency and slowdown can make it a really frustrating experience. 
 
  
  A couple of recent patches have helped with some of the glitches, and the gameplay has improved. 
 Multi-player subscriptions also allow bonus features that do help gameplay and the re-play value 
 of this great RPG.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  game play [9/5] : Hell Gate London has a very nice game play. it has 3 different types of game play. every 
 race is different to the other. the hunters are the soldier type of this game. they use weapons. cabalists 
 are the modern mage type of this game. they use some weapons. these weapons are staffs in other games. the 
 third type are templars. they are very strong and use swords. if you see, we have three types of gameplay. and 
 all of them are good.
  
  
  graphics [6] : the technical graphic part of the game is good. but the artistical part of the game 
 is awful. the london is dark and sad. and all of the areas are like the others. physics are bad too. you 
 can get through anything in this game. [except walls and some enemys]
  
  
  musics and sounds [5] : the sounds will run in your nerve! the musics are madicore and we dont have 
 any good voice acting. when you talk to a NPC some loose talk you will hear. and the talks have not 
 any correlation to the things they say in the talk menu.
  
  
  value [7] : story is bad. you dont have any idea where is your character come from and where it goes. and 
 expect game play all parts of the game is shoot. but the main thing in a game is gameplay. so it 
 will make this RPG game tolerable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallofman1337
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting more from this game and even bought the Deluxe Edition. I was bored exploring the 
 London Metro after 6 hours and could hear a giant flushing sound therafter. Some of my guild members 
 were dumb enough to quit WOW in favor of this game. I too signed up for an online account in Hell 
 and promptly quit when all I got was more gray armor (boring.....)
  
  The $59 price- is a disgrace... (OH THE DRAMA!) It is way to high for a MMO, especially an MMO 
 that is the worst on the shelves and is so unpopular. For the amount of gameplay involved I could 
 see someone paying $20 in the bargain basement bin. For everyone else, SAVE YOUR MONEY!
  
  This game deserves the BullCrap of the year award for 2007. The reviewers believed in the hype 
 and gave inflates scores to sell more magazines. I just want a refund and should have taken the 
 blue memory erasing pill that Morpheus offered (i. e. Matrix) .
  
  Happy Gaming !!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judge_Omega
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most entertaining games on the market and costs but a fraction of the other 
 titles. It plays like a fps with skills and equipment like a rpg. I totally love this game, to 
 me gameplay is EVERYTHING and the graphics are totally unimportant. Its graphics arent the most 
 impressive but they are very true to its theme and set the tone of the game nicely. 
  Personally i really dont care about story, and this game lets me skip through all the blah blah 
 blah quest chatter and just get the quests DONE. Which is even better on this game due to its lack 
 of voice acting/ quester animations.
  There are many options for upgrading your gear and doing so grants a real edge to the player. The 
 skills gained in the game also have a noticable affect in combat. Which is all important as it 
 impowers the player to have some form of control over their character which is absent from far 
 to many other games on the market.
  I think the developers could have taken one more step and made this a true mmorpg with rampant 
 unrestrained pkilling and no instances of zones, but perhaps they are saving the best for a sequel. 
 I always want more... it is in my nature. But still i shouldnt place any blame on the devs for 
 it. 
  Excellent job flagship, dont be discourged by the morons. I have a feeling the same ppl who gave 
 this game a low score gave age of conan a great score, total retards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelzup
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  As I got going with this game it took some time to get used to adding power-ups and deciding how 
 to attack the different demons and odd creatures that abound in this game. It reminds me of Serious 
 Sam but without his serious weapons. I have found that the game tends to lock up when you're in 
 a major battle with a slew of your enemy monsters swarming around you, or at least when you play 
 as a sword wielding Templer. All the side quests seem to have been placed so you can get through 
 them as you make your way to the main quests objective.
  
  The graphics are pretty intense especially when you're in a fierce battle. I've had a lot of trouble 
 with the game crashing after playing for just a few hours. Another minus is there's no way to save 
 your game unless you're at one of the major bases. If you don't stop the game in one of them you'll 
 find yourself fighting your way back to your main objective. In some ways that's a good thing because 
 you can continue to level up which helps you get to the better weapons and armor.
  
  Over all it's like a crazed FPS only you have several blades to choose from in fact there's even 
 one that reminds me of the Light Saber from Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellas92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  Well firstly Hellgate London refers only to fans of games with demons beasts and zobies. The fans 
 of RPG games like Oblivion, Gothic and etc should look elsewhere. The good about the game is that 
 it offers great graphics on the models (player, beasts, monsters etc) but its dissapointing when 
 it comes to the graphics of the enviroment and items around your player. Also one another good 
 point of the game is that you can choose between, i think, 7 or 8 classes of humans. It might not 
 be many but each is very different from the other, each has its own advantages, and they are pretty 
 good. Now the story isn't much good and it could have been writen better. There are plenty side 
 missions to do, but they are a bit boring just go there and kill that. The story line is a bit 
 messy and does not have a solid line. The game it self does not keeps you in front of the screen 
 (many times you are just bored or dont understand what is going on. At last theres a good point 
 of the game. Theres a big variety of weapons that you can modify by pieces that you find when you 
 kill bosses. Thats a new and in my opinion really good point because you can have each weapon for 
 a specific type of enemy and keep upgrading it when you get new mods.
  The conclusion for Hellgate London is that this game is strictly for fans of games with zobies 
 and demons and also that its a medium game as for its storyline graphics and gameplay. Not good 
 and not bad. But there are many other games that are worth of buying than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Bird_of_Cha
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Since the start of the game industry there have been games that developers have taken years on 
 to publish. This wasn't one of them. Originally filled with many bugs that worth both annoying 
 and game breaking. It , for one reason or another was released all to early.
  
  This , though , is later in the story. The majority of the bugs have been squashed. The errors 
 that were made when the game was released have been worked on. Hellgate has seen a complete overhaul 
 and tuneup. Resulting in one fine game.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  All the sounds are perfect for the scenes. Except for the music. Plenty of loud bangs , monster 
 roars and environmental sounds.
  
  Music: 5/10
  The music is good. Don't get me wrong. It is very good. It just doesn't seem to play the right 
 score at the right spot. Sometimes playing no music at all for a long time when you enter a stage.
 
  
  Controls: 10/10
  Really there is nothing simpler then the control setup they have. "W" moves you forward and the 
 mouse steers. With various easy to remember buttons doing their part.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 This is a lot trickier then the controls. The game doesn't have a steep learning 
 curve. If you want to be good at it though I recommend you read the forums. So that you know all 
 the tricks. 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  I play this game on the lowest settings possible and the game still looks great. I can't imagine 
 what the experience would be like playing it on high.
  
  Replay Value: 6/10
  I would rate this higher but there are two completely different ways to play the game. Either your 
 a subscriber or you aren't. If you are a subscriber then this would easily be a 10/10. They keep 
 adding new content on a regular basis for subscribers. For non-subscribers you don't see as much 
 new content. I don't know about you , but I get tired of playing a game if there isn't something 
 new around the corner every now and again.
  
  Should I buy this?
  Well, if you like First Person Shooters , Role Playing Games or both then I would recommend you 
 at least look into this game. It has improved a lot , and continues to improve as time goes on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Hellgate is an expansive game that showed some glimpses of originality and creativity, but for 
 me, the bugs and miss falls outweighed the good.
  
  I found myself spending most of the time trying to figure out what certain items were for and why 
 they were even in the game. On one hand the battles were fast and fun, but on the other they seemed 
 a bit pointless. On more than one occasion I found myself running around an area trying to figure 
 out what to do next. I also found myself returning to an area over and over only to find re-spawns 
 and the same old same old.
  
  I liked the almost WOW type of item drops that came after kills, but 90% of the drops seemed worthless 
 and I just ended up bouncing back and forth between drops and shops.
  
  The ability to combine items to create more powerful or different types of weapons was a great 
 idea, but make one mistake and your done for. I often had to resort to saving the game, making 
 my mod, seeing the results and then decide to keep them or load the game and do something else. 
 It took away from the whole concept of the add on's and fell short of delivering solid gameplay 
 in my opinion. I would have to say that I had most of my weaponry by half way through the game 
 and never really found the need, or the drop, to make me change my inventory.
  
  For a FPS RPG it could be worse, but with other games in the genre like Bioshock, this game just 
 doesn't match up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 5
Date: May 22, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Recently I headed back to Europe from Asia and needed some proper reading for the trip. For whatever 
 reason I picked up the book Hellgate: Exodus. I did not have big expectations, after all a book 
 based on a computer game that has received mediocre reviews
  
  But, as the nerd I obviously am I flipped through it during the flight, and found myself enjoying 
 it more than I thought. I even became curious of the game. Surely enough, later I picked it up 
 from a bargain bin and gave it a spin.
  
  I made sure to install all the latest patches, as according to the reviews I read the game was 
 pretty bugged upon release. I never really agreed to reviewers butchering a game because of technical 
 issues, after all, we live in a world with Internet and rapidly released patches. So, despite poor 
 reviews I still kept a hope they were poor because of technical issues now fixed.
  
  The first impression was quite good, nicely rendered opening sequences and graphics that looked 
 much better than I expected. Then, after starting the game, it began to fall apart.
  
  First of all: What retard was responsible for the sound in the game? It has positively the WORST 
 voice acting EVER! Even the built in speech synthesizer in Windows can do a much better job at 
 acting out proper emotions. What the characters are saying is not even relevant to what is going 
 on at all. They just give you some generic greeting, and generic goodbye, with some crazy sounding 
 echo effect if you are in the subway system. All the mission info etc. is given by text, and whoever 
 wrote the mission stories should get fired too! Or perhaps it is just randomly (and poorly) generated 
 by the computer?
  
  I am not normally too much into having a story in games, the stories are usually crap anyway, but 
 this.. Wow, it is just beyond crap. Its crap from a fly that is eating crap!
  
  OK, so trying to ignore the humus stories and missions, as well as the horrible voice acting and 
 sound effects, I run off to kill some demons. Now, the next big disappointment is how easy it is. 
 I mean, in the book I just read the demons were tough and scary as hell. In this game, they fall 
 down if you just wave their sword at them, without even touching. 
  
  After killing off a few dozen demons that were teleporting in around me, I got pretty fed up. I 
 already risen to level four, without even trying at all. But wait, I spoke too soon, I was about 
 to fall victim to a real monster lurking in the game. Actually, a bug. A bug causing the game to 
 freeze, and I could not even turn off the computer anymore.
  
  OK, at this point I had enough. I uninstalled the game using revo uninstaller, a program that thankfully 
 will remove every trace of this excuse for a RPG game forever. 
  
  I might pick up the next book in the series though...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate London was one of the most hyped games for PC back in 2007 and many people looked to it 
 as the "next big thing" due to it being developed by people who worked on the Diablo franchise. 
 Well, the game has been out for awhile now and while the game is fun, you'll have to deal with 
 a lot of issues, both in-game and on the technical side of things. Hellgate takes place in London 
 in the far future where a portal from Hell has opened up and thousands of demon spawn have taken 
 over the city. The demons have slowly begun to terraform our planet, but hope remains, as you're 
 tasked with finding a group of Oracles who will reveal how to defeat the demon who orchestrated 
 the invasion. Now that's a pretty interesting premise and it's what drew me to the game in the 
 first place but unfortunately, the story is not very well-told. Part of the problem lies with the 
 dialogue system where speech takes place in a text-based box similar to Elder Scrolls III Morrowind. 
 It would've been better if the dialogue was spoken but I guess it was cut due to time restraints. 
 This leads to some of the main characters being underdeveloped and we're unable to get a detailed 
 picture of how they fit into the story. We have a vague sense of what's going on but we can't connect 
 the dots. If a sequel is made, this is one area Flagship should focus on fixing. The graphics are 
 pretty neat, the special effects in this game are awesome and the monster designs are all unique 
 but some of the textures are compressed, again probably time restraints. Sound is all right, the 
 battle music is well done and the monster sounds are good but it would've been better if the dialogue 
 was spoken. The one thing Flagship succeeded in is the item generation; there are A LOT of items 
 in this game and you'll greatly enjoy decking out your character in the best gear possible (I was 
 a Guardian) . The random levels fare a bit poorly due to the tile sets being quite large, so you'll 
 see a lot of the same looking areas with different names. You can pretty much count the only unique 
 areas on one hand. I did not play multiplayer extensively but its all right but I really don't 
 believe its worth paying $10 a month. Flagship has not really released too many content to entice 
 players anyway so I recommend sticking with the free service for now. On the technical side of 
 things, the game still suffers from freezes and crashes despite having the latest patches, and 
 sometimes items and NPCs don't appear correctly. This is, again, time restraints and a general 
 lack of polish. Hellgate London has a lot of content packed in, and the game is incredibly long 
 (I completed the Main Quest and about 90% of the Side Quests) , so you'll get your money's worth. 
 You ARE just clicking your way through the game and some might get bored but it does scratch that 
 need to get MORE and BETTER items. I enjoyed the game despite its shortcomings but I recommend 
 everyone try the demo before making a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  The game has some very interesting ideas, but unfortunately it seem beyond the ability of a new 
 studio like Flagship to fill in the gap between design and construction. Let me discuss some important 
 factors of Hellgate: London.
  
   
 
  
  It's not the first game trying to integrate FPS and RPG in its gameplay. At least we already have 
 a brilliant Bioshock. But it's the most successful part of the game, since the combination of two 
 genres really brings about interesting experience. Your character is not merely a warrior with 
 guns as main weapons (instead of swords or bows) , but falls into 1 of 3 classes, each of which 
 has a well-designed skill tree: Templar, Cabalist, Hunter. With the option to switch between first 
 and third person view point, it's very convenient for characters of melee class to resort to guns 
 in some circumstance and vice versa. Another remarkable points is the requirements for items stack 
 together. If you have a sword that requires 8 points of strength and a shield that requires 3, 
 you will have to gain over 11 strength points to wield them both. This could be useful to prevent 
 abusing items of wrong class, but still allow players to create several item suits for different 
 situations. But the flaw is when you upgrading your stuff there is no warning of the addition in 
 requirement, making it sometimes frustrated ,for you can't even use your gears after upgrading. 
 Of course the gameplay, like most other features of this game, has many drawbacks, but I don't 
 really like point out here.
  
  Multiplayer of this game is not really MMO like the developers always insist. In fact, this mode 
 is pretty weird. Every station in single player becomes transit shed where all players can meet 
 and do some exchange typical in online games. Once a player or a group decide to take a task (which 
 is nothing different from those in Campaign) , they get separated from other groups. You can also 
 pay a few of 10$ per month for more quests online and participate in events of the game ( there 
 are already 2 as long as I know) . All of these are not yet MMO.
  
   environment and 
  
 
  The scenario seems quite attractive at first glance: remaining force of humanity trying to regain 
 control of London which is now ruled by the demons. But this is only well presented in the cut 
 scenes, besides, all NPCs are designed so poorly that you feel they are more like shadows with 
 no personality rather than courageous warriors as the game try to describe. The only feature players 
 use to distinguish them is difference in armor and gender. Their only function is giving you few 
 monotonous quests and there is hardly any voice play for boring dialogues in the game. And well, 
 talking about quests, they are all like this: You kill a number of a particular type of monster 
 and return to gain rewards (sound like beginning quests of World of Warcraft!) . Poor interaction 
 with NPCs makes you a lonely individual in the struggle against demon, and it reduces the interest 
 to follow the story.
  
  And now about environment in the game. I feel like there is a confliction right in the design step 
 in Hellgate: London. A feature that should have been very worthy is: maps are not pre-rendered 
 but randomly generated when characters move to an area. It's surely an very original idea, but 
 some restrictions should still maintain to make different areas through out the game distinguishable. 
 The way this feature functions makes quests appear not in any order, some are too close to other 
 and occasionally, in a very important place there are only weakest monsters!!! Moreover, the randomly 
 generated maps also reduce the feeling of a real London in devastation. London has many well-known 
 distinctive places, but in the game, this city become a combination of ducts, tunnels and about 
 10 different house models. There is an event in Tower of London. To be frank, the Tower model are 
 very realistic, but thanks to the low frequency of the appearance of such real factors, this only 
 makes the rest of the environment become nonsense.
  
  There are other issues with this game but I stop here. As a RPG Hellgate is nowhere close to Diablo 
 or even Titan Quest level. As a RPS, well it's pretty fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexeyValentine
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  I Have to admit, this is one of the most fun games i've played yet, the controls are very fluid 
 and the game has an almost arcade like feel,
  and for the people who dislike frustrating games this is perfect, with no
  setbacks and very 
 easy to get through, the graphics are very nice and well achieved.
  
  Before you start the game there's an intro movie that immediatly draws
  the atention of the gamer, 
 with this obscure and desperate story, about 
  the world being invaded by demons and the "make your stand" attitude
  of Humanity, that, in my 
 eyes it's very very appealing.
  
  Next, the character classes, all very different and very unique with each one having it's good 
 points. There are six classes:
  
  The Blademaster - A very high damage melee class, the only profession that can dual-wield swords, 
 a barbarian type class.
  Guardian - A defensively-focused melee class, that resembles the paladin
  from diablo II.
  
 Evoker - This class is like the necromancer from diablo, he can cast curses
  and has elemental skills.
  Summoner - Summoners can summon a main minion that can be enhanced 
 over time and smaller minions to use. Besides this he also
  has a set of offensive abilities.
  Marksman -A ranged weapon specialist with many skills to enhance 
 his or her weaponry. basically the shooter from the group.
  Engineer - A class similar to the Summoner, he has expendable minions as well as combat drones 
 that can wield weapons.
  
  After choosing a class you can then change the hair, the colour you have different faces from which 
 to choose, etc.
  After this, the story begins. In my opinion the story is very addictive especially after you watch 
 the intro movie, and the gameplay is so easy to control, there are absolutly no frustracting points 
 in this game.
  
  All in All, a very solid and good game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razvan_ol
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 12, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I wrote a pretty long review but changed my mind at the last moment. This game isn't worth a long 
 review ! Since the game was a big disappointment I'll write more about the bad part ;) . 
  Keeping it simple :
  
  Pro's:
  - It somewhat feels like the 'legendary' Diablo reborn in 
 3D
  - Tons of stuff, weapons, monsters, etc
  - Good looking graphics
  - That's about it !
  
  Con's:
  - Randomly generated maps. Sounds great ? Well in fact you 
 can play for 100h and never see anything different from what you saw in the first 2h of gameplay, 
 except for different monsters. There are 5 "types" of maps. This basically means they repeat throughout 
 the whole game but the barrels are in different positions :) ) .
  
  - Items. Although there are a lot of them, I failed to remember the name of any one item. It practically 
 doesn't matter what armor or weapon you have, It doesn't matter what damage your weapon does, everything 
 is randomly generated. After about 1h you're find a better sword (for ex) so who cares what the 
 first one was called :-/ ? Of course you can also upgrade the old one. Basically you get the same 
 end result: you can kill bigger monsters. 
  
  Also if a weapon has a damage of 100 (ex) , it may do less damage than a weapon with 60 damage. 
 Why ? I don't know. Probably it has something to do with the "special effects" damage, the "interrupt" 
 damage or god knows what else. What does interrupt damage mean ? I don't know. And that's the problem 
 !! 
  
  - Overly complicated game mechanics. Most monsters have multiple attacks and do special damage. 
 Then you have "rare" "legendary" monsters which are the same monsters, but they have more attributes. 
 Put together you end up with a monsterRavanger, rare, blinking teleporting phased regenerating". 
 So what do all those things put togheter mean ? I don't know.
  
  I could go on with 100 examples but I'm not in the mood.
  
  - Let's talk big issues !!! Sound. 
 None of the NPC's speak. You aren't immersed at all in the game. I honestly have no idea what the 
 story was about. It was so dumb/boring that I didn't think the effort of reading the dialogues 
 was worth it. Music, none to be found :|. There actually is music in the game, but it only kicks 
 in at random maybe once an hour :|. Even then it has no correlation to what is happening on the 
 screen. So for the entirety of the game you're be hearing only your footsteps and the sound of 
 your weapon hitting an enemy.
  
  - Story/gameplay. Kill 600.000 monsters to complete the game. There is nothing else ! I swear !!! 
 Go from station to station ( get tougher monsters on the same maps as before. actually they are 
 different maps, they just look exactly the same =) ) ) . In my case the "world map" got broken so 
 I ended up
  redoing "side maps" ( as I call them) just because I had no idea where to go.
  
  In the stations and at key points on some maps you're going to see NPCs.
  The problem: they 
 are living statues :) ) . They don't move, don't talk. 1 or 2 times I saw them engaging an enemy 
 (which happened to walk into them) but they do almost no damage. They don't die, but they don't 
 do anything else either :) .
  
  
  The list could go on forever, I just hope you've made an idea about the annoying issues in this 
 game. It's not worth playing ! If you want to find out more, just read some of the other review. 
 The ones with a 3-7 score are mostly accurate. 
  It doesn't have an amazing story like GOTHIC, Oblivion, Diablo.
  It's 100% linear and blunt. 
 But don't forget everything is randomly generated. So those barrels are in different spots on every 
 map ;) =) ) . And they weapons always have different damages. 91 ? 95 ? Who knows ! COOOL !
  
  Do you have any reason to play it ? I don't think so...
  But if you like the idea of killing 
 1.000.000 monsters in a Diablo-ish style (keep pressing that left mouse button ) , but you don't 
 even need a story to back up why you're doing it THEN THIS GAME IS FOR YOU !
  
  ps: Wasn't sure what to pick for the difficulty score. 
  You could say it's easy because even 
 when you die all u have to do is run from the entry point to your body ( in ghost mode :) ) ) and 
 you'll respawn on the spot. Ahh you can also pay to respawn on the spot if you're lazy and don't 
 want to run the 100m to your body.
  But you could say it's hard because [ not again! ] of those randomly generated monsters. The tough 
 ones always come 3 at a time ( 2 rare+1 legendary) and sometimes you'll find them sitting 1m in 
 front of the gate when you enter the map. Annoying... And going back isn't an option. Remember 
 my advice : KEEP PRESSING THE LEFT MOUSE BUTTON AND THE 1 KEY ( shortcut for health) !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  - This title notably comes in two flavors DX 9 and DX 10. Unfortunately, I really cannot tell a 
 drastic difference other than a notable memory leak when playing in DX 10 mode.
  - The models, environment, and monsters look very nice. The armors and weapons offer nice texturing, 
 and some have some great lighting effects. Almost all of the environment's are cookie cutter in 
 fashion, battlegrounds may be different whenever you go back to them, but the changes aren't substantial, 
 and feel rehashed on some occasions.
  - I have had issues on both of my rigs with periodic glitches, sometimes your character will clip 
 through some walls, or some creatures can pass through corners of walls. This is not a substantial 
 problem, but it does contract away from its overall presentation.
  
  
  Audio / Sound:
  - The audio offered isn't going to win any major awards, most of the sounds after a short period 
 sound canned. It's a slight negative, but when about 95% of the monsters, demons and creature sound 
 alike, as well as the environmental audio it does have a tendency to grate after awhile. 
  
  
  Game Play:
  *Single player:
  - The single player campaign is pretty much the same as 
 the multiplayer component. The major difference I can ascertain is the single player component 
 is not updated as often.
  
  - The story pretty much places you as the hero to save them all. You battle through multiple zones 
 reminiscent of how Diablo 2 ran around. As you run through multiple zones you get the opportunity 
 to do new missions, which allows you to get better as you go along with armor, weapons, ect.
  - The character classes are notable in three major classes, with two subclasses within each class. 
 
  - One class is The Templar, a warrior sword wielder called the Blademaster with a high attack variation, 
 and the second is the Guardian as a tank who can stun, and hold out the longest in a battle. 
 
  - The Spell caster called the Cabalist is a pseudo necromancer / elementalist. The Summoner can 
 raise minions and help out party member with some attack capabilities. The other is the Evoker 
 a high attack variant who is more dependent on spiking your adversaries' health with elemental 
 skills. 
  - The final class is the hunters which are the primary firearms users. Playing as the Marksman 
 subclass allows for you to play in an FPS mode, but you can really spam some damage around, but 
 notably the hunter class does have a major hindrance on close in survival,. The engineer secondary 
 allows the player a unique aspect to minion mastery. As an engineer you can put up mobile floating 
 drones with your own weaponry of choice as long as you have the weapons. 
  
  *Multiplayer:
  - The multiplayer component is a mixed bag; you have your free and paid areas. 
 The paid areas allow you access to additional missions, and areas, PVP, and guild capabilities, 
 to currently name a few availabilities.
  - The multiplayer component is very similar to the single player, but you cannot bring your single 
 player made character in, but you are allowed to battle alongside your friends which is very nice 
 to have a few buddies. Be warned though, the more players you bring in the environment the more 
 difficult the monsters will be.
  - The only major problems I have had with the multiplayer component is sometimes the servers do 
 have some latency issues with me, and a most of my friends noted of suffering from the same issues.
 
  
  
  Additional Thoughts:
  - This game was a hard one to review, I liked the concept, and I liked harkening back to the some 
 of the Diablo style of play. Unfortunately, there are some bugs, and the style of play does get 
 old quick.
  - For the paid version of play, it is my recommendation that you do not take advantage of the pay 
 to play experience. There is still after 6+ months still not enough reason to pay for the additional 
 services.
  - The characters right now are a sore point of contention with me. Notably the since the release 
 of the game the classes have received some major overhauls which really altered whole aspects to 
 play. Even though the developers a couple times offered re-specialization coins to high level characters, 
 it still is a sore spot to a lot of players.
  - With other games that offer a free to play experience such as the well established Guild Wars, 
 I would possibly recommend engaging in that or others with the same concept like Titan Quest. Hellgate: 
 London can get old quick
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dana733
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Usually I play RPG's. This is the first game with shooter features that I actually enjoy. The single 
 player is just plain fun, blowing up zombies and all kinds of weird creatures. That part reminds 
 me very much of Diablo. The 6 different character classes (really 3 different ones, each with a 
 variation) are interesting and different than other games. I'd say the RPG aspects are a little 
 on the weak side, though, and the story line is definitely linear and often seems a bit contrived. 
 Especially near the end there are several times you think it's about over and there's 'just one 
 more' extension. Overall, the game rides a fine line between keeping interest going and just plain 
 tedium.
  
  One aspect of gameplay I just flat out hated. Every so often, there's a switch to a sort of minigame 
 where the play style and requirements are completely different than the rest of the game. For example, 
 you are no longer controlling your own character but stand at a console and control a group of 
 soldiers from a distance and have to take out huge numbers of monsters plus a boss monster. At 
 that point, it's more like a strategy game than either a shooter or an RPG (and I rarely enjoy 
 strategy games) . The worst part is there's no way to avoid these segments - you have to play through 
 them successfully to move on. Very frustrating!
  
  Overall, I find myself still playing because it can be addicting. It is an easy game to play casually, 
 a little bit every couple of weeks - good in little sips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the diablos so I had high standard for this game. I can say for the first few 
 hours I was really impressed. The graphics are great, the sounds are good, the original story concept 
 and intro are fun. I was immersed right away. The game play is very much like diablo and very familiar 
 which is nice. The problem is that it doesn't take long to feel like you've been here before, over 
 and over again. The levels just keep repeat ing. Some creativity saved for later in the game would 
 have been nice. I actually got kind of boring after a while. The story line is much weaker than 
 it could have been with the great concept and start. It almost made it to being a great game, I 
 mean close, develop the story a bit and get more creative on the levels later in the game and it 
 would have been great.
  
  Couple other thougths
  One nice addition from Diablo is the ability to move in and out of 1st person view. This helps 
 with the boredom, at least it's one way to make a level look different.
  
  I never quite figured out the coallition ratings, like Ally, Trusted Friend, etc... I get the theory 
 but in one station I would finish every level and get 500 out of 501 (501 huh?) and at the next 
 one I'd get 50 out of 500 after completing everything. I just didn't quite understand how this 
 worked.
  
  Anyway, it's worth buying used and playing for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctan31
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is simple (frag, shoot, stab, slash anything that moves) . The story, well, it takes 
 the back seat to the action and quests.
  
  
  You start the game in London and "befriend" a guy named Murmur who walks you to the first station 
 (tutorial) . The command list is very simple. Each mouse button (left-right) is either your left 
 or right hand for when you equip dual weapons (guns or swords) , wich IMO is very cool.
  
  You quickly master the questing aspect of the game wich are collecting object for someone, deliver 
 a message or kill a monster. 
  
  The multiplayer mode is great... no PvP if you don't want to and if you go out of a station, you're 
 alone with your party on the map. 
  
  The monsters are divided in 4 categories wich are, beast, spectres, demons and necros (zombies) . 
 
  
  These aspects are great and the game is addictive and fast pace when in dungeons. You can't pause 
 the game in multiplayer so if the phone rings, better get out of the "dungeon" before answering. 
 Lots of drops from monster and loot to find.
  
  The customization of weapons is awesome, no two weapons can be the same. The number of slots for 
 customization varies as well as the specifics mods you can put in. You can have a flaming sword 
 wich deals fire damage as well as poison and wich perform better on demons. You can also choose 
 between splash damage, zone damage or direct damage etc..
  
  On the other hand, there is still some bugs in the game. For instance, some monster can disapear 
 and reappear somewhere else (always the same pattern and in front of you) . I've experience instance 
 where lighting would not appear for a couple of seconds. More annoyance then major bugs. Alo the 
 maps are redondant a bit and the levels in hell are all the same and not that scary. Plus, they 
 are rather small
  
  The game is in evolution with the numerous patches being release with amelioration to the game. 
 The replayability is great cause you can play it in elite mode or normal mode.
  
  I've enjoyed this game.
  
  All in all, I recommend the game to everyone that ever played diablo. 
 The game is not Diablo but IMO is in the same style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 1, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Hell Gate London (HGL) is a new version of Diablo but with a very slight changes in the scenario 
 of the game play. However with the aid of DirectX 10 it provides good graphics.
  
  In HGL you can create different types of characters depends on your personality of the play. You 
 can be a blademaster, rifleman, engineer, summoner, and guardian. Each of these factions has special 
 abilities. These abilities lets the person to do special actions which is unique. Each faction 
 has also a skill tree which can spend his skill points to unlock or upgrade a skill to enhance 
 the fighting against the enemy.
  
  The target of the game is to kill the demons in the streets and in the sewers to accomplish primary 
 and secondary objectives. Your primary objectives is the story line. But the secondary objectives 
 can help you to gain special items or experiences. 
  
  Throughout the game you can collect items and use them. These items include armors, weapons, health 
 injectors, power injectors and weapon modifications. Every items in the game can be upgraded using 
 special terminals in the underground stations. These combinations of various items and upgrading 
 of the items lets the user decide various ways to wear different types of armors and weapons.
 
  
  Although the game has many alternatives to be played, but it is designed the same way that Diablo 
 2 was designed. After 10 years players are expecting something more innovative. In addition, in 
 some part, the game becomes terribly boring and you pass several halls which looks like the same, 
 you kill the same monsters and suddenly you feel bored but still hope it gets better. The problem 
 is that the developers didn't spend much time designing each part, they used an automatic generating 
 environment. This automatic generating environment, generate each hall as you go through it. What 
 do you expect from a game that its maps is generated not designed? In developers opinion they took 
 less time to develop a game but in the players opinion, the same environment for multiple locations 
 makes the game looks boring.
  
  If you look for something to remind you of the old Diablo 2 thing in a new DirectX 10 environment 
 with good graphics I suggest to buy it but if you look for something new, you should check your 
 alternatives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  This was touted as the unofficial Diablo 3, made by some of the original creators of Diablo and 
 Diablo 2.
  
  The idea to make a Diablo inspired game in future London, with demons spawning everywhere could've 
 been fun, but somewhere in the development of the game the developers must've lost sight of the 
 idea, because the game is uneven at so many levels, that even the core gameplay lacks the finesse, 
 balance and addictiveness of the Diablo games.
  
  Add to this a disappointing story. I remember the HD video / trailer (which is the starting video) , 
 which impressed me long time before the final release - unfortunately the trailer is the highpoint 
 of the story, and the storytelling gets much worse later on. It is as if the developers had no 
 idea whether or not the game should be funny, weird or dark. The result is just a mess inbetween.
 
  
  It doesn't help that the ingame NPCs doesn't do much to guide you through the world, let alone 
 give you an idea of the story behind it all. The missions range from silly point a to b missions, 
 to more complex, but still not well written mission. There are a few exceptions, but basically 
 the missions seems a bit loose and lacks inspiration or originality.
  
  It doesn't help that clicking on NPCs makes them talk some random gibberish in high english, but 
 at the same time you're presented with the usual dialogue tree, in text, which has nothing to do 
 with lines the NPC just spoke. Weird design choice.
  
  Another less fortunate design choice is the lack of different environments. In the first 3-4 hours 
 of play, you'll probably see most of the areas (or at least the area designs) the game has to offer. 
 Adding to the repetiveness of the game. This, of course, adds to the feeling of not getting anywhere. 
 Progression is mostly felt through character advancement.
  
  And character advancement has some flaws as well. Progress, especially in the beginning, is rather 
 slow. So you'll have to wait for the fun skills - and those are far and few between. To put it 
 mildly - many of the skills feel unnecessary or underpowered, let alone uninspired.
  
  Does this mean the game is bad?
  Not really. The core gameplay is just about fun for a few hours. 
 But if you want to play a great action RPG, play the original Diablo II or try Titan Quest from 
 Iron Lore, which is a much better game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unst4blec0d3r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  If you were to ask the simple question, is this game fun to play? I would say the answer is a resounding 
 yes! Hellgate: London provides great graphics, simple and entertaining game play and a great multiplayer 
 solution.
  
  The game takes a large amount of direction from Diablo 2, in its style of play. With the notable 
 exception of the option to play in the first person. Lots of monsters, lots of explosions and a 
 very spooky environment make for hours of entertainment.
  
  At first, and even a little now, I find the weapon modifications and upgrades system to be slightly 
 confusing then I would have liked. However as you being to understand it, the options to modify 
 your weapons really opens up some weapon options similar to the sockets you saw in Diablo 2.
  
  One notable feature I really enjoyed was the fact the textures on the gear you wore would change 
 based on what other pieces you were wearing. So no matter what eclectic collection of gear you 
 had equipped, you always looked put together.
  
  My biggest complaint would have to be the quests. Many will rank this game low because the quests 
 are the bulk of the content and they feel lacking. With such a huge portion of the quests being 
 kill quests, or collection quests, I found myself skipping over the quest text and just pressing 
 "Accept Quest" to finally see the "Kill X Monsters" in the quest log.
  
  Despite the quests to not be as immersive as I would like, the creative principle of the game, 
 the futuristic play on a more sword and sorcery genre make Hellgate: London a good fun game to 
 play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killomatic
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  After getting Diablo's fans waiting 7 years expectantly for Diablo III, Bandai Namco Games produced 
 the most awaited HellGate London. Using the new graphics technologies, Bandai Namco created a game 
 in full 3D which is far beyond the old Diablo's 2D graphics. They kept the usual hack-an-slash 
 and magic gameplay but they tried to reach shooter's players by adding 2 classes using guns and 
 the choice to play in first person shooter which isn't really completed. Except that players will 
 have to live with tons of graphic flaws, bugs and illogical behaviour, they will surely find what 
 they were waiting for as much in the single-player mode as in the multiplayer mode.
  
  Story and quests
  Although this game is suppose to be really innovator in the role playing game 
 style, it gets pretty stuck with the common storyline plot; you start as a totally nobody who gets 
 his first test mission and becomes eventually the hero and is chosen to go on an adventure and 
 eliminate the super big demon at the end in order to save mankind. This can be seen in the previous 
 Diablo series, in Baldur's Gate as much on the PC as on the Playstation 2, in the Champions of 
 Norrath series, I mean, even in the Final Fantasy series and so on and so on. But hopefully, Bandai 
 Namco created a good main background story that gives you an urge to know the end. Now, about the 
 sub quests. The developers inserted a whole bunch of those which is really different from the old 
 Diablo II which had only main quests. Doing those gives you experience, money and good magical 
 items. But at a certain point, the dialogs with the quests giver become so repetitive and annoying 
 that you'll stop reading them feeling that you are losing your time. But still, in the overall 
 the game gives you the feeling that you're not just fighting with demons to level up and get new 
 items.
  
  Graphics
  HellGate is really remarkable because it has such a great range of possible graphics. Unless you 
 are still working with an old Pentium 1, a 3D accelerator card and 256 Mb of RAM you'll be able 
 to find a level of graphics that your computer will be able to run smoothly. Just laughing here 
 but it is true that even with the minimum requirements (which are really low for a 2007 game) you 
 can get some decent graphics. But badly the game uses a lot of memory due to all those flashy and 
 lights effects as much in areas as on the armours themselves. At some point, mostly Vista users, 
 there are so much graphical effects that a 2 GB RAM computer will run out of memory. So this means 
 only 2 things, upgrading your internal memory or else playing with ugly graphics. An awesome feature 
 is that you can play with DirectX 9 or DirectX 10 and there is a titanic difference between those 
 2. First of all, running DirectX 10 at low graphics is the same thing as playing with DirectX 9 
 at high graphics ant still it is better. A good feature they add on since Diablo II is reflection, 
 yes reflection on all those metal parts you wear and see. But there are major flaws with the DirectX 
 9 engine. When outside you can see the reflections of the other building in the windows but after 
 some inspections you'll see that the reflection is in fact only a premade image defiling in front 
 you as you change your point of you. I mean, if there's an alley behind you, you won't see it, 
 there will be a building instead. Weird huh? Another example is the armours reflections, no matter 
 if you are outside or indoor you will always see a reflection of the sky and buildings. Where in 
 the world can we see the sky when killing demons in a subway? Hopefully DirectX 10 doesn't have 
 those problems and has pretty good reflections, pretty more realistic personally. Finally, the 
 major multiplayer bug is that when you appear in a station you won't be able to see others body 
 except their weapons and shields. It doesn't happen that often but it surely will at one time or 
 another. In the overall, except those flaws, the game keeps pretty flashy with all those cool effects 
 and graphic possibilities.
  
  Gameplay
  What is totally new is that Bandai started their game with 6 all new classes differently to Diablo 
 1 with 3 and Diablo II with 5. But the most uncommon thing is that they are separated in 3 kinds 
 of main classes: Templars (fighters) , Cabalists (sorcerers) and Hunters (shooters) . What is really 
 great for Diablo II's fans is that they will be able to find a class in Hellgate that is based 
 on the old 2000 game. It is when it comes to gameplay that we can see easily see a slightly remaked 
 Diablo II formula. As soon as you open the start the game with your character that you can see 
 the Diablo II battle screen: a circle of red representing you life on the left, a little circle 
 showing you the action of the left mouse button, a little menu in the center, another little circle 
 showing you the action of the right mouse button and a blue circle for your mana. On the upper 
 left corner there is your friends and summons health. What's new thought is that there is a quick 
 menu just below de general menu, there is also the mini-map which can be brought in a little circle 
 on the upper right corner which is really new since Diablo, Baldur's Gate Dark Alliance and Champions 
 of Norrath have all the map in big in the middle of the screen which blocks most of the view and 
 the graphics. The internal menus are almost the same except that you see your character and you 
 can rotate it in 360 degree circle to see everything. Again there is no limit of weight but a limit 
 of carrying spaces. The skill tree is a lot simpler than Diablo's giving it easier to unused players. 
 Each class has his own set of unique abilities and crossover abilities with the other class of 
 the same main class. For example, both the Blademaster and the Guardian have the skill Sword of 
 Reckoning but the Blademaster has exclusively the skill Whirlwind. Playing the game in the overall 
 is pretty easy too; you begin by equipping what you can and setting your skills so they'll be easy 
 to use, then go into an instance and kill some demons. Badly, although that the first person mode 
 is quite innovative for a roleplaying game we can still feel that it's not quite done. First of 
 all, using 2 small guns at the same time results in blocking all your view, your character almost 
 lifts them right in front of your face. And worst than that, the guns have a ranged limit of about 
 25 meters except for snipers which have a good 50 meters. What in the world is that? Nobody in 
 the world would go fighting with a gun that can't fire properly, but again it would make the game 
 too easy if it was more real, imagine if you could kill an enemy and no monsters could ever reached 
 you because you're so far, that would be really awful too. Hopefully there is a great variety of 
 monsters in the game so you won't have the feeling you are fighting always against the same enemies. 
 But lots of monsters equal more programming and more programming gives us a possibility of more 
 bugs. And that's particularly the case of the Ravager, a demon animal that keeps jumping at you. 
 Strangely, if you dodge its attack it's a lot probable that the creature will fall through the 
 ground and just die, more than that the corpse will reappear where it jumped. This monster can 
 jump and pass through walls; well everybody knows that body versus a wall it's the body who wins. 
 No but seriously, where is the collision? Do the Ravagers have the power to pass through walls? 
 Now onto the character, it happens sometimes that you'll get stuck touching a wall, or when jumping 
 over an object that you shouldn't, or even when jumping between two near objects. Those bugs block 
 your character to move, you can't jump, and you can't go in any direction. Attacking still works 
 just like the inventory and every other game window but there's the worst thing: you can't teleport 
 yourself back to the last station and that's because the Personal Relocation Device doesn't work 
 anymore. So you have to exit the game, re-enter it and then you'll see that every single monster 
 will have reappeared and this means to beat all of them another time. And watch out because you 
 could get stuck another time. Finally, I'd like to talk about THE most horrible multiplayer flaw. 
 Regarding trading and dungeons, in games like World of Warcraft and Everquest you could give items 
 to other players in your party as you wished but in HellGate London you can't, if you want to trade 
 with your friends you'll have to wait to come back to a station. Ok, that's fine when it comes 
 to armour and weapons because maybe you don't need them right now but if an Evoker runs out of 
 Power Pack and has no mana left for his spells, what is he going to do? His friends cannot give 
 him their packs and why? I don't know, maybe London's heroes are a bunch of retarded people and 
 they just can't imagine that trading could be the same in a dungeon to. What were they thinking?
 
  
  Items
  Now onto the items, well I must admit there is a huge and I must insist on HUGE range of different 
 items, this regards as much armours as weapons, mods and general items. Weapons can be moded by 
 adding mods into their mod slots. Mods will be compatible only with some types of items like an 
 ammo mod will never fit on a sword, etc. Each item has its own unique look, reflection and light 
 effect. Items can be modified in the Nano-Forge using different components that you get by breaking 
 other items. Each time you upgrade an item it will cost more materials to upgrade it again. You 
 can add special property for a fee by putting the object in the Augmentrex 3000. A good thing is 
 that you can change the overall color of your amour by using the color mix of one of your gear; 
 it's easy to get what you want. One other thing that was kept from the old Diablos or that we can 
 find in game like Lord of the Ring Online is the different color names depending on the quality 
 of a weapon. Normal items are grey, enhanced are green, rare are blue, legendary are brown and 
 unique are yellow. This means an all new set of colour and one more quality type than in Diablo 
 II. But everything has its flaw and her it his: you CAN'T drop the items on the ground. If you 
 want to get rid of an item and you're in a dungeon then too bad, you have to destroy it. Dropping 
 it could have replaced the problem of trading but it doesn't work either.
  
  Other bugs
  -Enemy's dead body floating in mid-air
  -The character reappears at the beginning of an instance 
 when you were right into the middle of a fight
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game on and off for the last few months. The reason is , it looks the 
 same in sooooo many places. I enjoy the combat and finding and upgrading as does everyone but it 
 seems like Groundhog day at times. It does not crash, the sound and graphics are fine, some of 
 the quests are great but I just have to take a break. I finished the Witcher prior to starting 
 this game and had more fun though I had some of the game crashes and graphics issues others have 
 had. I plan to finish this game but expected so much more. I will have to give it a 6.5. Some of 
 the monsters look the same but are different colors in different areas, as are some of the streets 
 and hallways. I like the weapons, more flames the better, but the armor looks dull when looking 
 at other games. 
  
  I realize this is a Diablo type game but I think it could be a bit more complex with the storyline 
 unless it gets more involved with more game time. If so, I am sure I will reevaluate my score. 
 Some people really hate the game but I would disagree. It has its moments and is worth playing. 
 So I will boot up and play another round and see what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gasconyman
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 17, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  I never seen such and stupid game. Diablo was great. you can't compare this game with Diablo. Your 
 are allways running around for nothing. Quests are very stupid, they are like Go find the Altar 
 Of Horniness or The Great Monkey Of Playfullness, And it is accross the world and you have to kill 
 allmost a thousand of good for nothing monsters to get there. when you arrive all you have to do 
 is to click the damn thing and return all the way back or activate your Personal Relocator Device. 
 So what? couln't we just activate the device in the first place to get there?
  And the story is very poor and lame. Monsters from hell invaded mankind from nowhere and we are 
 the only hero to save the world. Very similar to Oblivion and another hundred fantasy games.
  Sounds aren't Impresive at all. The game is full of annoying and disturbing shooting and explosives 
 sound effects which you have to listen to them all the time. Plus there is no actual voice in the 
 game. The very main story of the game is told in bad looking windows and yellow texts that you 
 have to rapidly click the next button to see the next sentence.
  The Music is realy a Wonder, Imagin this: You are fighting with A Very dangerous, strong monster 
 as big as a building and hundreds of smaller enemies and there are bullets and plasma balls flying 
 every where and what music do you expect the game to play? It plays a very slow medieval type music 
 which is better for a puzzle game than an action one.
  The only good aspect of the game is it's inventory features. But The crappy inventory management 
 ruines it. You must rapidly press "F" to pickup objects and after a few picks when your inventory 
 is full, you should open the inventory disassemble of distroy your items one by one and That takes 
 lots of time.
  The only RPG element of Hellgate is it's charecter creation and Inventory. How the ability to choose 
 your charecter's hairstyle makes the Game a RPG game, that I don't know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaethorn
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  There's definitely some serious lack of polish on almost every corner in Hellgate: London. The 
 NPCs look blunt, all dialogs are text-only and the few voice acting which is nothing more than 
 some random phrases at the beginning and end of a dialog are neither funny nor authentic. The story 
 isn't catching and there's no way to influence it. The hardware requirements are too high for what 
 you get to see.
  
  Then there are some things that were realized in way they're fulfilling their purpose but without 
 setting new trends or being any better than the implementations of the competition. For example 
 the character creation function works just fine but could be a lot better. The design of the monsters 
 and the world is sufficient and ranges from great to repetitive. The sound score is fine but kicks 
 in too infrequently. Leveling up your character could be a little bit faster or more rewarding 
 but it does the trick.
  
  And at the end there's this one thing that makes up for all the rest of the errors and flaws, which 
 is the fun one can have by playing this title. There are so many titles out there that try to achieve 
 this with lots of manpower and technical finesse that they forgot what playing games is all about: 
 fun. Flagship Studios somehow managed to direct all those mediocre aspects of their game into something 
 compelling which makes you go on.
  
  You're barely punished and almost always rewarded such as when you die, you can respawn a the beginning 
 of the level and when you slay monsters you get more items than you can handle. Items aren't in 
 your way either as you can always disassemble them to use the resulting parts for forging new items. 
 Of course they can also be used to upgrade existing items to a new 'level'. Upgrading doesn't end 
 here though because you can find and forge upgrade parts which fit into certain slots of the item 
 giving them special properties.
  Obviously a lot of depth is drawn from collecting and upgrading items, looking for monsters and 
 chests providing them.
  
  The replay value is immense due to its random nature generating items and even levels as needed. 
 Starting a new character class yields a completely different experience as well because you get 
 to use other kinds of weapons and skills. For example, after switching from 'guardian' beating 
 up monsters with your sword from a 3rd person view you'll find yourself sharpshooting from 1st 
 person view if you play as a 'marksman'.
  
  With patch version 1.4 many annoying issues are gone and a lot of enhancements were introduced 
 which makes it all the more worth playing. But even if they'd triple their workforce to produce 
 the perfect Hellgate: London I highly doubt it would be any more fun than it already is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  I was tracking this game for the longest time, intrigued by the idea of the combination of FPS 
 and RPG game. I don't play a lot of RPG's and I generally don't like them, so this was going to 
 be something new for me. When the reviews were out I decided not to play the game because it just 
 wasn't going to be what I had hoped. Luckily a friend of mine played the game and told me that 
 it was worth playing, and I'm glad I tried it. 
  
  Hellgate does not stand out in any one aspect. The graphics are OK, even in DX10 they aren't amazing. 
 The sound is OK. The gameplay is probably the best aspect, I like running around terminating all 
 sorts of evil demons, although the character building is a bit vague. The plot is thin and just 
 holds everything together. As a whole package, though, this game proves to be quite fun and a bit 
 addictive. I found myself continuing to play to get that next level, or that better armor. In this 
 case the whole is much better than the pieces that put it together.
  
  Even after finishing the storyline for the first time I was interested not only in continuing with 
 my current character, but creating more characters to try out. I found that the different classes 
 to make the game different enough to be fun even the second time through. 
  
  I have not played this game online, but that is also a plus for the game, not only is it able to 
 be played online, but it has a solid single player component for those of us that can't or don't 
 want to play online. I never knew about the single player until my friend told me, I thought you 
 had to play online. 
  
  Overall this is a good game for a variety of people. If you have been avoiding it because of lackluster 
 reviews, give it a shot you might be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan8080
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the demo, I wasn't very impressed. The setting doesn't really appeal to me, 
 being somewhat reminiscent of a scifi-horror movie. Then I bought the full game to play with my 
 friends online. The gameplay is outstanding! The developers have tasken teh best gameplay elements 
 from Diablo 2 and refined them. Also the graphics are exteremely impressive. I had previously thought 
 that a 3D first-person view wouldn't work for an action rpg, but this game pulls it off brilliantly. 
 I don't enjoy playing the sword wielding class that I trie din teh demo. Howveer, teh game offers 
 an excellent variety in classes, with my favorite two being the marksman and the engineer.
  
  Pros:
  
  Plenty of loot to find. No fighting over loot because each person has separate 
 items from each kill. Party play in instances, so you can play with your friends. The item system 
 is superb with a large variety of weapons and modficiations and special attributes that all affect 
 gameplay. 
  
  The gun variety is truly remarkable. Gun have different kinds of shots with same have field damage 
 or rockets or rapid fire bullets, or long range sniper rfiles. Theere is such a great variety of 
 weapons that it is fun just o try each out as you find them
  
  Team play is easy as friendly fire is on., and you can play through your game quests with your 
 friends.
  
  The game is a good vs evil struggle, so you always get to play a good protaganist.
  
  The classes 
 are generally very well made and balanced.
  
  Cons:
  
  You can't play Elite mode till you beat the game, which makes the game too easy once you ge the 
 hang of it at around lvl 5. You'll only get to around level 30 b4 you beat the game then you have 
 to start over in nightmare. Some of the cool skills come at lvl 30. The char go up to lvl 50. You 
 can only respec if the devs to a major patch and give a class a respec token. The engineer class 
 needs to be rebalanced as some of his skills are worthless. 
  
  The setting is post-apocolyptic london with gothic horror monsters. I much prefer wandering around 
 in bright scenic fantasy lands like in baldur's gate/ warcraft / talkein / forgotten realms. I'm 
 hoping there is a sequel in a brighter more pleasant environment with D&D style foes, with guns 
 is ok, like in ShadowRun. Also the HG: London level styles tend to be repeated, they are not all 
 unique.
  
  I think alot of the negative reviews come from a rocky launch with bugs, etc. The game is much 
 improved at this point with all the patches that have been released.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  "ROJAK" - A spicy, sweet and sour Asia salad of fruits, vegetables and other many type of foods. 
 Exciting to eat begining but sick of it after eating repeatingly.
  
  Hellgate : London - this game got screwed up because there are too many show off minds are trying 
 to input into this game which they think this is the best of expertise to present it to the consumer 
 and U know whom I am alway talking about. And I strongly recommended, U all should consult Dan 
 Brown about the hellgates, Angels and Demons, and also the knight of the templars before creating 
 this game. Story content make no sense to me.
  
  Game user interface - SUPRA - simple to use and easy to FAST understand
  Roles of play - poor 
 due to definition of roles playing are suck
  
  If there is a Hell, there must be a heaven so does if there is a demon, there must be a God.
 
  
  Did u know that London got fire on the launching day? :) Spooky! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London was a great idea that took a wrong turn somewhere and now half-heartedly joins 
 the ranks of the great unwashed as just another Diablo/Rogue-like clone. While it was obvious that 
 time constraints had something to do with the buggy and flawed release it is also painfully obvious 
 that there is some misguidance here as well.
  
  Flagship Studios, like many splinter companies, tend to stick to their guns to produce games that 
 ring true to their roots while trying to add that extra spice that kicks their product into a new 
 era. Sometimes it pays off but sometimes it falls flat. It happened with Ionstorm for example, 
 both divisions, which had me rethink the "hotshot" developer idea. Maybe the sum of a game's parts 
 isn't greater than the whole. Great ideas are awesome but great games are put to the test in real 
 code. Here Hellgate tries to be a few things, a FPS (here I combine shooter and slasher as the 
 same) , an RPG and, in the words of Bill Roper, an MMO.
  
  It has the FPS part down you get to hack and blast a multitude of creatures back into the hell 
 they spawned from and I have to agree that in this regard the game is merely satisfactory. While 
 it is somewhat fun to mow through the hordes of hell the weaponry mostly seems to lack substance 
 with the guns and swords rather unbalanced or untested. Guns generally lack an "oomph", for the 
 lack of a better word, making a gun battle at higher levels rather tedious and the swordplay I 
 find rather annoying since you leap around when you have the attack button pressed while moving 
 in a direction. You can stand and deliver but moving about generally is a good thing when bloodthirsty 
 monsters are looking to make a quick snack of you. This is more of a personal nitpick but I feel 
 somewhat spoiled after playing some superb slasher games that offer a much higher degree of control 
 over your melee character. Gothic, the original, comes to mind as the ultimate in control, while 
 it was difficult to master once done it offered a host of options rather than: (a) stand and hack 
 or ( b) prance about and hack. Seeing as this is a hybrid game it is forgivable.
  
  As an RPG HGL fails miserably, not only do you not have any real choice in this game, the story 
 and quests are so bland that I personally skipped reading any quest/story text after the first 
 2 stations. Aiding in this disregard is the fact that the quests themselves are boringly dead simple. 
 Broken down they are: (a) kill x of y, (b) kill x to obtain y, (c) explore x, (d) frob x numbers 
 of y, (e) frob x on y, or (f) go to x. All of which require no thought at all. I can only attribute 
 the blandness of the questing system with the random level structure. Handily you can determine 
 a storyline quest (purple) versus just another filler quest (yellow) by color. Perhaps this is 
 the role-playing they attempted to add. You can be the guy who just saves the world or the guy 
 who saves the world and some cats, some homeless dude's cardboard box, a park, an elephant, a dime...
 
  
  Lacking in the story department I prayed the RPG part that most games get right is the character 
 development part since it is the easiest. As true to form you get the generic 5 stat points and 
 1 skill point formula pretty much standardized since Diablo roared back in the 1996. Nothing new 
 here. Same few stats as usual with the same standard effects. Ranged dmg/effect for your Accuracy, 
 Melee dmg/effect for your Strength, Stamina and Willpower affect your overall health and mana pools. 
 The only kicker is that in some cases you are rather limited in how you spend your points. Depending 
 on the class and play-style you prefer you might end up spending more points in useless stats just 
 to equip certain items. For example a summoner with a penchant for guns will be required to spend 
 points in all stats diluting your overall effectiveness since you will need Accuracy to equip the 
 better guns and Strength to equip better armors, Stamina and Willpower are requirements as well 
 but in general you will be pumping these by default. Yes Strength is a large stat even for a caster 
 class since all items seem to have a random matrix for stat requirements, I have found items that 
 require insane amount of strength/stamina/willpower to equip. You can try to utilize items that 
 require low stats but I find it annoying in the extreme that I cannot equip a legendary due to 
 lack of some stat. Options would be to leave leftover points to try to adjust for dropped loot 
 or wearing stat enhancer items. Like in Diablo and Diablo 2 you will be doing a bit of equipment 
 juggling when you are wearing stat enhancing pieces to wear other items. The only thing to be wary 
 of here is that items you are wearing but lack the stats to support are nonfunctional. They show 
 up as red in your equipped slot and are removed from your character model. In short, if you have 
 played any Diablo game you are pretty much in home territory here.
  
  Stats out of the way we come to the skills. Now here is a really bad design issue. You start off 
 with 1 point in a pre-defined skill... WTF? Some people might not mind but I do, immensely. Add 
 insult to injury, there are no repecs. Wow, talk about a bad start. then it gets worse. all your 
 skill descriptions can range from passable to ambiguous at best and plain confusing at worst. In 
 the worst cases it simply describes an action kind of like "your attacks from some weapons now 
 have a 20% chance to cause your enemies to explode in a fiery shower". That's it, just the percent 
 proc and no real info as to what it means for the effect and no data as to the damage done. Whether 
 it does weapon damage, pre-determined damage, procs on a 10 yard radius, or blows up the entire 
 level, is all up to you to find out. While actually playing the game alleviates this issue, a first 
 play through can lead to a scrapped character. This is plainly wrong. It wouldn't be as bad if 
 the skill tree augmented your skills as the tree progressed into deeper tiers but quite reversely 
 some skills overwrite the previous skills in that the lower tiers suddenly have no place in your 
 hotbars making them all wasted points. Coming back to the no respecs and we have a bad, bad design 
 decision. Note that not all skills are like that but in many cases you are left with a decision 
 to either use your skills now and make things easier for you right now or save your skills until 
 you can make better use of them. Throw in some useless skills in the mix and you have yourself 
 a really bad skill tree. The only hope is that FSS will tweak these skills and trees in later patches.
 
  
  Now we come to the MMO. Technically you can say that HGL is MMO in the strictest sense but no, 
 really, I mean NO. Instanced in the extreme you will be hard-pressed to find another soul in your 
 immediate station unless you coordinate through other means, online voice and texting programs 
 come to mind. Guildwars had a better structure than this and their online play is free. What you 
 really get here for your $10 a month are promises of new content. So far they have been cosmetic 
 drops. Other than that MP is SP, period. Mobs scale and loot scale to group size but you are still 
 doing the same old campaign with no MP-centric themes like in other real MMOs where you have instanced 
 dungeons that require a bit more thought than just button mashing. The only real problem I have 
 with this MMO claim is the fact that FSS is charging a monthly fee for this type of lobby/instance 
 game. They should have gone the Guildwars route and provided free online content with paid expansions. 
 While $10 a month doesn't seem too bad you have to take in account that this is more of a LAN style 
 game with limited interaction to the overall community. To entice me with paying the online fee 
 I would require real content to justify the expense. A few novelty items keyed to holidays doesn't 
 cut it. Given that it is a new title there is a bit of fudge room here but would it have been so 
 hard to have had a real reason to go multiplayer? Most games allow for interactive features like 
 professions or requiring multiple players to run through an instance/area etc but HGL has nothing 
 of this sort. All it offers is the chance to group or trade items.
  
  There is a featured Hardcore online mode but I really don't see the appeal other than for bragging 
 rights. You get one life to get through the campaign, been there, not impressed. Every game has 
 hardcore mode, if you die delete your character or save. Having it online in a secure environment 
 with that one rule enforced might be heaven for some but in most cases will be a minor player in 
 the stage that is HGL.
  
  The main meat of this dish is the loot. All the rest of this game is window dressing to the act 
 of picking up loot and HGL does this job admirably. A huge assortment of stats and bonuses adorn 
 color coded drops. This is the only reason some people will play this game. I do admit to some 
 modicum of satisfaction when I inspect that new piece of loot and see that it is a nice upgrade 
 to my current collection. You will get some moments of "OMG!" as well when that uber item drops. 
 Lootwhores rejoice, this is a game that certainly pleases in the frequency and, in some cases, 
 quality of the drops. Looking for the ultimate gear is the only reason I come back to HGL. With 
 that being said, if Progress Quest had stats for their random drops though I would be "playing" 
 that instead of HGL.
  
  Another selling point of HGL is that the engine supports random maps, supposedly for replayability. 
 Some people like it, some don't. In the case at hand the limited tile set along with the completely 
 linear nature of the campaign makes this feature rather useless. Get used to crawling around in 
 the same tunnels for a long time. I would have preferred interesting handcrafted levels with random 
 monsters over the current implementation. The random levels all follow the same general flow anyways 
 so you will begin to notice, after the novelty wears off, that you really have been here before. 
 Just maybe this tunnel turns left instead of right. You can even get levels that terminate in ways 
 where you cannot proceed, luckily it is rare. Random quest areas and items also ruin the experience 
 as well. Too many times are quest objects all tucked in some corner all together or, worse yet, 
 there happens to be only one quest item you need to frob and it happens to be spawned right next 
 to the entrance. Anti-climactic.
  
  With all this randomness you would also expect the same from the mobs. Well your wish is granted 
 in your own personal hell. Seriously lacking in actual different mobs HGL tries to mask the fact 
 that you have been beating the same dead horse from level 1 by dressing them up in different outfits. 
 It is a nice touch that the models for mobs do differ slightly in their armory. Sadly they are 
 still the same mob from so long ago. It may have gotten tougher but it has no new tricks. The combat 
 is quite boring as well with the only challenge coming from overwhelming numbers added to increasingly 
 higher hit points. Some variety in mobs would be a welcome change in the coming patches. It would 
 help break the tedium of mowing through yet another pack of zombies or imps. The occasional epic 
 or rare monster might pop up but other than having some random attributes that really don't matter 
 they are just mobs with guaranteed loot, AKA walking treasure chests. Even the bosses are quite 
 straight forward having no real AI like their lesser counterparts. There are just two modes of 
 attack, things either charge you or they employ a hit and run tactic. Don't get too excited over 
 the hit and run mobs though, they are just running away in random directions for a random amount 
 of time. I have had mobs run away from me so far that the aggro reset and I found them wandering 
 aimlessly in another part of the map.
  
  Overall the game is playable. There are no features worthy of note but you won't be sorely disappointed 
 either if you come into this expecting more of the same helping you got before in countless other 
 games. Future patches may make this mediocre game into a marvelous game but will anyone care by 
 then? There will always be the die-hard fan base and to those I wish well. I really wanted to like 
 the game although in the current state it is in I can only say that it is no better and no worse 
 than any other game I have played.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The models are detailed well with crisp textures and some interesting animations for the monsters. 
 Overdone glow effects and lack of damage skins or damage feedback on mobs. Environment textures 
 are quite nice as well but the individual pieces are too boxy with no interesting features, yes 
 even the organic levels.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  Mobs have distinct noises but the lack of variety makes me wish I could turn this off. Boring weapon 
 sounds. No real background music and the tension building "combat" music plays rather randomly 
 so you can have it go off when there are no mobs in sight, usually because you have sniped them 
 all.
  
  Interface: 4/10
  
  Failed. No reasonable way to split stacks. Inability to interact with the world and the UI at the 
 same time. Inability to map the context keys. Bugs abound. Bad FSS, bad.
  
  SP Gameplay: 6/10
  
  Just another FPS with RPG elements. Added 1 point for the lootwhore in 
 me.
  
  MP Gameplay: 2/10
  
  There is no MP, at least there is no reason for it. Instanced to hell, pun intended. Chat system 
 is broken. Requires a monthly fee for the bonus content that I don't find justified. Added 1 point 
 for the lootwhore in me.
  
  Technical Score: 4/10
  
  While functional, many bugs and memory leaks plague this game.
  
  Overall Score: 5/10
  
 
  Buy it, play it, forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London puts you in the ruined streets of London, after a massive invasion from hell tears 
 the city down and drives humanity to hide in metros.
  You get the choice of picking between 3 classes, each with two sub-classes in it, there are gun 
 wielders, meelee attackers, and magic users.
  I picked the Engineer class, a sub class of the hunter class (Guns, basically) , the engineer has 
 variety of guns, and the ability to construct drones, which are mainly robots that fly around and 
 help you in some way or another.
  
  So after I designed my character to fit my taste (and an accidental purple hair :S) I was thrown 
 into the streets of London, with barely a tutorial, inexperienced and poor, to fight hordes of 
 (dumb, yet..) horrifying zombies with dual guns.
  So now, after a quick walk in the ruined streets of London, let the butchering begin, because Hellgate: 
 London focuses mostly on kicking bums, because, no sir, thinking and riddles isn't on the menu 
 of Hellgate.
  
  I found myself comparing Hellgate to another RPG I used to play, Dungeon Siege (maybe because I 
 didn't play Diablo, but most people are comparing it to Diablo) it's basically a one man army running 
 through hordes of monsters, with a bit of side quests, special items, and upgrading yourself from 
 time to time (you're able to mod your items and upgrade them with the necessary parts) .
  
  Well, the only things I find annoying in Hellgate is the difficulty (and some major physics bugs 
 if you're playing the single player) , because you might find yourself dying once a day playing 
 through the higher levels, or maybe it's just me? but heck, though you'll die, and even if you 
 fail, and if you sell the wrong weapon, or mod the wrong weapon, even if you'll make a huge judgment 
 mistake and pick wrong skill, you'll stay addicted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately the graphics are the only plus for this game, it's a novelty that wares off after 
 48 hours. I'll try and keep this short:
  You can complete a level simply by holding the mouse button down
  You can't respec unless you 
 subscribe, even then you have to kill a raid mob with a 1% droprate on a respec item.
  There are only 4 or 5 maps
  There are only 4 or 5 quest types
  The skills are very limited, 
 you can level up 10 times without changing what skills you use.
  The over-instancing gives a really shallow feel, I've never seen more than 6 people in one place.
 
  There is no way to speed up quest text - reading endless reams of lore ftw :P
  It's currently grossly ovepriced given the above points.
  
  People keep comparing this game 
 to diablo in it's defence but it's kinda hard to see how just holding the mouse button down for 
 days constitutes a game :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoMatrixOC
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London has huge potential for RPGers that are tired of MMOs and want a more personal and 
 less social game. When setting up my first toon, I realized that this was a game that one could 
 spend years playing WITHOUT paying the subscription fees. It is awesome to find a game that has 
 so much potential play time without having to pay a monthly fee to keep the gaming experiance going. 
 I think that MMORPGs are great, but I think that with the coming financial problems, it is great 
 that gamers have a viablle option that doesn't take money away from the family budget each month. 
 
  I am fortunate to have a computer that has DX 10 graphics, and I have played this game in both 
 DX 9 and DX 10. Yes, the first thing you will notice (using DX 10) is the depth and 'shine' the 
 toons and environments have, this is a great game to showcase the improvements DX 10 has made in 
 gaming, However, once you switch to DX 9 you will find that the game repsonds better and moves 
 much more freely. I must admit, that when I switched to DX 9, I was still very impressed with the 
 look of the game and even more impressed with the lack of 'lag' and and loading times. Playing 
 HG-L in either DX 10 or DX 9 you will find the graphics in this game are very detailed and and 
 are not 'cartoonish' as we see in so many RPGs and MMORPGs. I think that the game developers have 
 really worked hard, and succeded in giving this game the best that current technology has to offer. 
 
  On the 'downside', the single player game does feel more than a little bit 'linier'. Now, I am 
 not talking Doom 3 'riding a rail' linier, but if you are used to open worlds (like WOW) you will 
 find the game progession and exploration very limited. As well, talking with the NPCs in this game 
 can be more than just a little confusing and anticlimatic. After the super opening movie, one would 
 excpect there to be more 'plot' for all the talking that these NPCs are ingaged in. Most of the 
 NPC dialoge can be skipped and one can figure out, with ease, where to go and what to do without 
 sitting and reading each and every word the NPC rattles off to you. A few of the NPCs talk in such 
 a way as that they do not make any sense and seem to ramble on and on about nothing of importance 
 at all. One that I have encountered seems to be suffering from some sort of mental illness that 
 makes talking to him slightly more fun than having teeth pulled. 
  I wouldn't go so far as giving this game a 'Must Buy' rating, but if you are a gamer that is trying 
 to wean off WOW.. or are going through MMO withdrawl, this game will help to you cross back from 
 MMO to RPG. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatAnarexic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm a veteran gamer, but I'm not a veteran of MMO's so take my review of this MMO with a grain 
 of salt. Hellgate mixes an almost perfect combination of action, addictive collecting and fun. 
 My only gripe is that it is not very long yet. Even with the newly updated Stonehenge area the 
 game doesn't take very long to beat. I imagine that's how WoW was when it first came out although 
 I have no firsthand knowledge. I'm sure after a few more updates I wont get the feeling of been-there-done-that 
 quite as often. 
  
  I do love the real time action engine. It's great to be able to actually swing my sword or shoot 
 my gun right when I push the mouse button, unlike many MMO's. The only other one I've ever seen 
 attempt this is Tabula Rasa and I did try that game too. It didn't feel right. Hellgate feels very 
 right. 
  
  I've beaten the game on all the modes except Hardcore (I ain't) a bunch of times and had a blast 
 doing it. 
  
  If you're interested in a MMO that doesn't waste a bunch of time waiting around and just gets you 
 straight into the action I wholeheartedly suggest Hellgate: London. 
  
  Hopefully in the future they will make a Hellgate: Salt Lake City. Nothing cool ever happen 'round 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayjohansson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  If you approach this as an MMO you're going to be disappointed. It runs on a Guild Wars set up 
 in the sense that you meet other players in hubs and all other things are instanced. An issue is 
 that it is marketed as an MMO and it really isn't.
  
  This game really shines if you get together with a group of friends and blast through the quests 
 together. You WILL get fast and intense combat. It does have repetition involved, but you still 
 can get 100s of hours of play out of a NON-MMO. Compare that to most games that are released for 
 50 bucks that offer 6-12 hours of play.
  
  If you go into this expecting light, entertaining fare, and want to go crazy on some monsters, 
 you won't be disappointed.
  
  The class development and building is also quite deep and the modification of weapons can be enjoyable.
 
  
  The biggest con of this game is its inventory. It is a HUGE HASSLE, even on a 9 dollar a month 
 subscription that provides extra space. The inventory system is ALMOST a deal breaker, but luckily, 
 the game is too much fun for that to happen.
  
  The game also has mail, auctions, and some other cool features that are being added the day of 
 this review writing.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deaddog069
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  wait till the game become in the 10 USD range and then buy it for it is OK and some fun at the 
 start but after about an hours with of play it becomes boring and the same same over and over agin 
 take the money and put it to Guild wars or just wait till GW2 is out and a good game is gears of 
 war god play and fun I would say save your money if a friend has it use there copy and move on 
 I got it for 27 USD fill cheated wish I could take it back and wait till it got in the 10 USD range 
 that is it for me som the rest is crap fo take care and save your money and thingk about some other 
 carem ok OK oKokKKKKKKKKKKKKK OOOOOOOOKKKKKKK OOOOKKKKK ok ok ok ok ok okok okok ok okoko oko ko 
 ko ko ko ko ko ko o ko ko k ok o ko k o ko k o k o ko k ok o k o k ok o k o k k o k o k o k ok 
 o k o ko k o k o ko k o k o ko k o k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  I bought HellGate London because i was bored. I knew that basically it was going to be Diablo2 
 in full 3D with guns and with less expansive dungeons. I didn't expect it to be as big as D2 was, 
 heck what do i care? I was just killing some time.
  
  So first up let me tell you why i stopped playing the game: games with greater depth came up, but 
 that wasn't it. It was hardware requirements. The game has some serious scaling issues: It will 
 run beautifully one moment and then suddenly it will run like a 1 legged dog. Now my GFX card was 
 a 7600GT, which is not really stellar, but now that i upped to a 9600GT and Vista it runs beautiful, 
 and still i have not really gone back to it, even though Orange Box (HL2) really isn't doing that 
 much for me. 
  
  I essentially got over the motions of go out, kill things, come back upgrade if you can, go back 
 out kill more. It is vastly improved over the system of D2, but ... by Act 4 ... it's starting 
 to wear a wee bit thin. 
  
  It isn't helped by the fact that initially the skills system makes hardly any sense (and i resent 
 making mistakes and not being able to undo them via a save game) . Also even though i have 10 buttons 
 on my mouse, i'm still shy of being able to do all i need to. There is a lot to HGL and damn it 
 is fun, but that is also it's greatest downfall.
  
  If you have the system to run the game, and you want DX10, you really really want DX10, the game 
 is so much better with it, it isn't funny. I'm thinking Core Duo min, with anything that does DX10 
 well. You want to see 60 FPS minimum, because trust me, even that will drop so low, and what's 
 worse, the IO drops out before your GFX slow. 
  
  Also know what you're getting: hack and slash, with pretty little mental activity.
  
  That 
 all said: it is a fun game to kill a few hours on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysockshurt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing the game I was actually pretty impressed, yes it was now Warcraft 
 of LOTR but it was still good. The graphics were nice and the combat , I thought was actually pretty 
 fun. This seemed like the game to replace warcraft to me and in joy I said asked on the chat "Where 
 is the (I forgot the objective) ". About an hour later someone said something and it was just "Hi". 
 The game unlike other mmos felt pretty empty and as if the other people were just add ons and not 
 important to my game play. 
  It suffered from a glitchy start and not a lot of people playing it and those are two crucial things 
 that could of made the expeariance better. Of course the 6.5 is not just from that, its from the 
 fact besides the graphics it was pretty empty. The quests were pretty bland and required me to 
 go to X, Kill Y, return to Z, and then I would do it again. I know these grinding quests are plentiful 
 in other games but the thing is unlike other games this ones scenery is bland and boring. Its the 
 same old destroyed world over and over and over again. The interface (IMO) was not that intuitive 
 and it felt very hot key intensive (Not having all the buttons out) , and the inventory was just 
 dumb. I know the idea of having a free place to keep you stuff is great but not when you have to 
 play a tetris like system to get everything in. Unlike other games where each item is one slot, 
 these can be oblong and this need you to adjust them and dumping items is also pretty unintuitive. 
 There is no pvp unless you pay and personally I would not pay that kind of money for a non established 
 game.
  After 12 hours of playing it and getting to lvl 15, i called it quits and sold it. It didn't lure 
 me into it with its monotony and drab areas, and it didn't keep me playing with its lack of variety 
 and repetitive combat. You can only make 1 account per disk so I don't think you can rent it, but 
 if there is another way of playing it with out paying the full price (Not, NOT pirating) then try 
 it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sturmGS
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased this game I was expecting something much more similar to Diablo. A first person 
 shooter was not what I expected, the game looked good but when you play it ,wow, what a let down. 
 Each level seems to play just like the last and they are not very creative. After a few hours I 
 shut the game down and haven't touched it since.
  
  Had Blizzard not been the creators I probably wouldn't have purchased the game to begin with. I'll 
 never understand why companies try so hard to get away from something that works and is popular. 
 Blizzard made money on the Diablo series, so why not try to create something similar. The same 
 people who purchased Diablo would probably jump at the chance to get into another game that played 
 as well.
  
  Bottom line, don't spend your money. The game isn't worth it and Diablo should apologize to their 
 customers who purchased this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  I was so excited about playing Hellgate London and it was fun while it lasted but the levels are 
 uninspiring and look-a-likes.
  
  Gameplay: 6,5
  
  Hellgate does have a good replay value and does feature some good classes that are fun to play 
 with.
  The only problem with Hellgate is that the levels are really boring and very repetitive.
  I like 
 the futuristic style of Hellgate. This makes Hellgate a different game then Diablo 2, although 
 Diablo 2 is a lot more addicting.
  the game features 6 unique characters with different stats, weapons and skills, which is a good 
 thing.
  Hellgate is quite repetitive. Thats why i gave gameplay only a 6,5.
  The story of Hellgate also isnt something thats good.
  
  Graphics: 7,5
  
  Tha graphics 
 of Hellgate are actually the best of this game.
  Some nice enemy and weapon designs make this game feel good!
  Also i would like to note that 
 the game runs well on older systems which is a +.
  Animations like fireballs and all that sorts of stuff could have been better.
  
  Sounds: 7
 
  
  Hellgate features some standard sounds.
  There is nothing that really stands out.
  Music is limited, its more like athmospheric music.
  
  Value: 7,5
  
  No complaints about 
 the value of Hellgate.
  Replay value is there and the length of the game is good
  
  Presentation: 5,5
  
  The story of this game feels really useless and you just want to skip 
 the intro movie because its so damn boring :P.
  The controls of this game are fine.
  
  Overall Hellgate has a unique style of gameplay but it feels so repetitive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Those 3 games together will give you Hellgate: London. Its a very atmospheric game with lots to 
 keep you busy. Being that its online makes it fun to play and being able to pair up with other 
 people is a bonus. It feels like WoW in some respects with a lot of the game similar. Even some 
 of the keyboard shortcuts are the same.
  
  The graphics are superb! A few glitches do occour, especially on the smoke around portals, a weird 
 colour effect can be seen when moving the camera almost as though theres an image behind it. This 
 may have been my hardware rather than the game of course. I found the game to suffer from lag occasionally 
 and the graphics engine to struggle when outside.
  
  The sound is amazing, very atmospheric and spooky. In 5.1 expect a fantastic experience.
  
 
  The beastiary is very good along with their AI, you'll have creatures come up behind you, leap 
 through the air at you.
  
  Overall this game is well worth buying and is hugely enjoyable. 
  
  The system I use to play 
 it on:
  
  AMD Athlon 64 X2 6000+
  4GB DDR2 RAM
  NVIDIA Geforce 8600 GTS XXX 730M Edition
  Windows Vista 64-Bit
  4MBPS Cable Broadband Connection
 
  
  It may be my setup thats causing problems in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  If Hellgate: London tried to label itself as Diablo killer IT blatantly LIED to you. This game 
 is repackaged Diablo in 3d and is ONLINE probably more for the sake that youll be less likely 
 to pirate the game. Unfortunately in the beta there are some network hiccups and when that happens 
 EVERYTHING stops. You can shoot like a mad-man but all the enemies stand there like disconnected 
 zombies that have had their brains removed. If your internet connection lags youll notice 
 weird frame-skips, the enemies will attack you, but then strangely go back in time and die and 
 you wont take damage. 
  
  Hellgate: London is addicting, it has a cool sense of style and the setting in London is a neat 
 feature. However, between the recycled randomly generated dungeons- the world does get old fast 
 and players will notice there is nothing new under the sun here. The most fun may be trying out 
 the different character types- but beyond that, its not even a true MMORPG in the sense 
 that theres no streamlined world- its all temporally randomized dungeons- with the 
 exception of stations loaded with NPC-quest buddies and greedy merchants. Unfortunately with the 
 final version, nothing much has changed. The game may pan out better in further updates- but given 
 the mechanics that lie at its core, my best recommendation is to try this one out (a friend's copy?) 
 before you buy it to see if it fits you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noguera13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  At first, Hellgate: London, was a game that was really hard to get into because of all the bugs 
 and lack of shine it was supposed to have, but after the initial patches came out and fixed those 
 problems, this game is probably one of the best games I have played in years! The graphics are 
 sharp, especially in Directx10, and the gameplay is addicting and fun. Mind you, it's pretty much, 
 "go kill ten of these" or "collect 5 of those", but the whole fun of it is getting the wicked cool 
 armor and weapons to do those things. Seriously, don't trust the initial review because the patches 
 simply overwrite the bad in the game. The skill trees are intersting and fun to toy around with, 
 and there is a variety of gruesome monsters to slay in the dozens. There's not much story to the 
 game as there was in Diablo, but the gameplay and the graphics kind of make one overlook something 
 as trivial as a storylin ; p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticRollmops
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Reading reviews, which were not-that-good, I took my time to buy the game.
  
  My first impression was: hey, what the hell are you all saying it's NOT Diablo 3? Same kind of 
 introducing movie, same feeling in the menu, same gameplay, same good-vs-evil ambiance, same graphical 
 elements, etc etc... Even the stairs are the same. Most of all, it's the gameplay that made me 
 feel to play the next Diablo release. If you take another Hack'n'slash game like Sacred for instance, 
 you won't feel as comfortable as you were playing D2. Amazingly, I immediately felt Hellgate has 
 a pretty good gameplay, intuitive and quite powerful. I can agree it's not D2 ; it's not a D2 patch. 
 But it's really an evolution of D2. With ideas took from Guild Wars and World of Warcraft, among 
 others.
  
  Secondly, did you remember what D2 was? At the time it was released, it was revolutionary. But, 
 retrospectively, all the bad things I heard about Hellgate apply 10 TIMES MORE to D2. After all, 
 it was just an Hack'n'slash game. The best in its time. But just Hack'n'slash.
  
  About the skill trees in Hellgate ; many complain because they are not as complete as it was in 
 D2, they lack depth. Here I still not totally agree. Skills in Hellgate are just different. The 
 main obvious difference is that there is no more 3 distinct trees for each class. To those who 
 speak of lack of depth, I will argue that in Hellgate, there is more freedom to tweak its own personnal 
 skills, which is a good thing. The second difference is that in Hellgate, many (eg most) skills 
 are playable even by putting a single point in them. In other words, the difference between the 
 max'ed skill and the 1-pt-skill is not huge. Here again, I see this as a very good thing, since 
 you can play the Jack-of-all-trades-n00b at the normal (easy) mode, trying as many skills as you 
 want, before deciding about a future specialized guy for elite+ modes (again, doesn't it sound 
 as D2?) .
  
  About the optional monthly fee. imho, this fee is intented to those who are interrested by the 
 mmo aspect of the game, mainly guilds and PvP. Here again, I don't feel it wrong since Hellgate 
 has also mmo aspects. I can understand maintenance and evolution of such a game require some money. 
 And, most of all, I don't have the feeling of class-A (those who pay the fee) and class-B players 
 (who don't pay) . The good point is that the additional content is mostly concerned with an *additional* 
 content (!) instead of an enhancement content (which will induce the problem of class-A & B players 
 I mentionned) .
  
  All in all, I like very much Hellgate: London for what it is: the best Hack'n'slash game on the 
 market. Seeing how it has already evolved since its release (eg a major patch fixing many bugs, 
 a promising Stonehenge extension, etc...) it's definitely a good and promising game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happydayjw
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  I was first drawn into this game because it was made by the team of Diablo 2. THIS IS NOTHING LIKE 
 D2! Its very boring and VERY easy. You never run out of ammo. There is no challenge to killing 
 anything. You get a few cool skills but they are unecesary because you could just hold down the 
 attack button and it would have the same effect. The graphics are poor, although they arent to 
 bad. The thing I would like to change most is the UI. I think it looks terrible and is much to 
 big even when you turn it down. Worst of all, yes, it is a free MMO. However they are trying to 
 get you to pay for bonus features. Who do they think they are? Runescape? Seriously. All in all, 
 I'd suggest playing it at a friends house for a while besides you make the dive and buy it yourself.
 
  
  ... This myth is BUSTED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legba11
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  For a very hyped by the developers of one of the greatest PC games of all time, this is a very 
 disappointing effort. Its not awful, but its nothing special either. If you want a play it for 
 20-30 hour then shelve it game, this would not be a bad choice. However, the $10 a month gives 
 very little value, the first content patch came out after three months, and its nothing special. 
 I would recommend waiting for at least until few months, see how the second patch is received and 
 then consider it. There are better games on the market right now, and likely there always will 
 be better options out there. By the way, if you are interested in offline play, the patches are 
 VERY slow in making it down from the online version, and you can't use the sub content offline. 
 Also, don't be fooled by the game early on and jump in for the founder's subscription, definitely 
 play it through at least twice before making that kind of financial commitment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drluv
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate London is a Action RPG with optional FPS control.
  
  Hellgate London is NOT a FPS with Action RPG characteristics.
  
  I say that because the majority 
 of the poor reviews hellgate is receiving are from people who think it is a lame FPS- and it is. 
 This is because it is not an FPS. If you like diablo, but have ever wished you had more control 
 over your character than clicking on a location (and would actually like to aim the arrows you 
 shoot) then this is the game for you. Like diablo- most of the time you are up against huge crowds 
 of mobs (10-30) So if you are an FPS character soloing it- most of your game will be spraying bullets 
 backing up. However- there is only one pure FPS character class- the others have much different 
 playstyles- also the FPS character is sweet when equiped with a sniper rifle in multi-player.
 
  
  That said- as the blademaster, guardian, or sorceror (all best played 3rd person) this is an absolutely 
 amazing take on the action RPG. Though there is still some mindlessness in it- it is not a complete 
 mindless clicker like diablo. The other two classes are summoning classes- and are also fun to 
 play.
  
  Here is a breakdown
  
  Play control- 10+ the controls for this game are smooth, intuitive and perfect
  
  Graphics- 
 9 -though some complain about the graphics- they have to be dulled down a bit due to the sheer 
 number of things which can be going on at once. as a single player you might say they aren't that 
 great- but when fighting a group of 20 mobs, with 3 other players, (one of which has ~ 10 summoned 
 minions) - the intensity of the battle, and dynamic lighting from all the attacks and effects is 
 pretty dang awesome. My computer is better than many- but is still a down to earth rig (2 gig ram 
 2.2 core2 hd3850) and I run it on max settings in Dx9
  
  Character classes 10- the classes are well balanced- and being a different one is like playing 
 a whole new game.
  
  Items 10++- you start to look pimp at lvl 10 and it just gets better.- plus they color coordinate 
 your items depending on what combination you have equiped to make sure you are always looking cool 
 and feeling buff.
  
  Story -8- Its not bad but its not great. My advice is to read the main story line (any time you 
 talk to a purple outlined character) and skip all the side quest dialouge. If you do that the story 
 is pretty good- if you read everything they put up on the screen it gets boring.
  
  Note- I have experienced few if any bugs with this game- so they must have fixed them pretty well 
 with the patch. As has been noted- they haven't fully patched the singleplayer game- I don't know 
 why. It- still plays well for me, but didn't get the character rebalance.
  
  And if you buy this with some friends- it absolutely rocks multiplayer!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visualsee
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  I gave this game a shot and gave up. The developers only seem to care about the multiplayer version 
 and the single player version remains a buggy, virtually unpatched mess. If you want to play offline 
 and not be connected to servers that will probably shut down this year (I seriously doubt they 
 are making enough money to keep this game online) , be prepared not to ever get any patches and 
 to experience a buggy crashing mess. Also, expect a hole added to your wallet from the loss of 
 the money you spent on the game.
  
  Yes, I sound negative about the game, but I'm really annoyed by the fact that this game was pretty 
 much delivered in beta form. I feel like I paid to test the game for them and that is quite pitiful. 
 This game was overly hyped and is nowhere near what I'd call a successor to Diablo 2. Sure, if 
 you like seeing the same subway stations over and over again, it might be for you, but I grew tired 
 of it quickly and after about crashing out of the game several times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelsoldier666
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  You cant speculate this game, and you cant believe everything that everyone says, thats the key 
 to like it, or it might be the key for your disappointment.
  
  Although this game had a bad release, the bugs are quickly vanishing, multiplayer is the best way 
 to play this game, mainly when you are in hard areas and need help from different players in order 
 to succeed in those maps, youll have problems with some bosses.
  
  What i enjoy mostly of this game, is how it reminds me of diablo 1, whoever its not the same, it 
 still catches many elements from Blizzard games and attach them to this one, mainly maps that are 
 different each time you log in to a game, and the ability to find an unlimited ammount of tools/weapons/armors 
 and more stuff to aid in your quest.
  
  The graphical content might not be the best, but it is not old, its reasonable and can be good 
 when you have the right equipment to run this game, although i had some problems before, i managed 
 to get a better computer to run this.
  
  I expected something more of this game, but its rapidly growing and showing what the launch version 
 of hellgate: london should have been, now i am waiting for patch 2.0/2.1 to see if it lives for 
 my speculation or not.
  
  I say try it, and play at least 1 hour in this game to fully understand it, try all classes and 
 try to play it in different ways, if you manage to play it in different mods you might enjoy it 
 more.
  
  My favorite classes are Marksman, Guardian and Blademaster.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icycmu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought it yesterday after long install time. I played it. Suddenly I said WOW! because of that 
 cinematic cutscene .That's the best cutscene I've ever seen .But after 2-3 hours playing ,I wonder 
 why the game is not exciting like that cutscene. It's fun but not good as I hope for . The game's 
 story has nothing I think this game doesn't have any plot ! This game cannot sucks me in to the 
 story like the other action- RPGs have done to me (especially Diablo2/D2LOD that's best action-rpg 
 in my opinion because it makes me feel I am the part of the game ) . Another part of game is good 
 ,Item mod/upgrade , gigantic monsters ,funny NPCs . These make me easily to be addicted but I feel 
 like I'm playing korean's MMORPGs which have no good storyline and the same monster but different 
 names and sizes. 
  
  Conclusion 
  Good 
  -Item mod/upgrade 
  -Ton of items
  -Stunned Game Graphic (I don't play in DX10 because I use XP but all setting is V. high+maximum 
 AA and AF) but see note below 
  -Funny NPCs 
  -Worth for money 
  
  Bad
  -Bad storyline. Even COD4 has better story than this game but This game is RPG !!! 
  -Recommended 
 hi-spec PC (for the game is not the next-gen graphic, Crysis looks better )
  -Stunned Graphic that's make me stunned .I have a headache after several hours playing . 
  -Korean 
 MMORPGs style (That's I don't like them) 
  
  Who is for this game ? 
  -Item crazy 
  -Benchmarker 
  -Counter Strike Player 
  -Lineage 2 Player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pcslave
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate London is pretty boring except the setting. Most of the game feels generic and uninspired. 
 There are a lot of references and similarities to diablo, but they feel thrown in for a unthoughtful 
 reminder. 
  
  NPCs in this game are not interesting and seem worthless. Its hard to develop any care or interest 
 in the characters you will meet. Not like good ol Griswold. The missions they give are all run 
 of the mill, no thought tasks. Tasks like go fetch items, or kill a certain boss or number of monsters. 
 The missions do vary but they boil down to the same thing, go someplace and kill everything, then 
 return to base.
  
  The items in the game are also bland in spite of their abilities or looks. There are a lot of different 
 items, but some are completely redundant compared to others, even when they are the same lvl. Though 
 there is much to do with the items like breaking them down or modding and constructing a new weapon, 
 it just doesn't feel important or satisfying.
  
  The skill system is cut and paste from diablo II. A lot of the skills in Hellgate are exactly the 
 same as diablo, like aura of thorns or the bonespear. Nothing feels new or original. Setting skills 
 or attribute points can be frustrating at times due to the fact that you cant undo any selection 
 you have made to your skills. Once you click something to add a point to it, its permanent, even 
 if you accidentally clicked it while browsing your character sheet you cant undo it. The lack of 
 a basic function like that is absurd and seems incompetent.
  
  The story is bad. There is no real info or background of what is going on other than the evil came 
 and the humans fight it. The weapons and items have no description of who made them or what they 
 are how or why they came to be. Everything feels unconnected and when big evens happen its seems 
 irrelevant.
  
  AI is Basic at best. If an enemy sees you it attacks you until its dead. Enemies make no effort 
 to hide or mislead you and will not take cover or run from you. 
  
  Multiplayer is bugged up and just as unsatisfying as the single player and any traces of a story 
 are completely lost.
  
  I have no real desire to finish this game. I'm not interested in the ending or anything. The traces 
 of Diablo will, if your like me, make you sad in the realization that you had way more fun playing 
 Diablo the first time around than you are now with its predecessor. Been playing PC games since 
 1994 so I have played a lot of awesome and pitiful games. 
  
  Overall this game feels like a free MMORPG with a hobbled together single player campaign. This 
 game is generic with sprinkles on top. You could buy this game, but you would be sorry like me.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  And i think the only thing what missing is individuality of characterless, the story to impersonal 
 and that attachment who make a game to be playable with more delight is lack . But in Hellgate 
 - all his geese are swans.
  
  I like characters selection were need to be very careful when choose a male or female [girls look 
 very sexy and maybe allure much :) lol ] and all characters have different skills or arms. Play 
 with weapons, guns, swords or spells. 
  
  The game is simple and fun. Mission after mission, run on streets of London and kill great demons, 
 beasts or creatures who look very "nice" and fantastic. Rest in train stations, upgrade your guns 
 and get out again to save the world... sorry, London. 
  
  Graphics look awesome not only in dx10. Must have a graphic-card powerful for dx10. This is what 
 irate me. With AM2-X2-4000 AND GF8600GT on dx10 /2G-DRAM -Vista in high or medium set, the game 
 look amazing but don't budge smooth. This is what i don't like it. 
  
  Sound is good music the same. Only story is little annoying. Hellgate London is a good game, little 
 repetitive but not boring. I play with pleasure this game, good RPG and for great graphics deserve 
 a 10 score but only 8 after play, because on dx10VISTA makes me so angry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game to sit down and play. Hack and slash playstyle, short quests, and multiple 
 characters to choose fun make this a very fun game to play whether you have a half hour or 5 hours. 
 Even better when you can go through with a friend. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 7.5
  Appealing to look at but certainly nothing amazing. The system requirements are somewhat low allowing 
 a lot of PC gamers be able to play this that can't run some of the other games out there.
  
  CONTROLS: 8
  Easy to learn controls without a lot of extras to worry about. I only wish that 
 you could easily bind more keys to abilities other then the 1-0, q, and e keys. You can easily 
 switch your weapons with 1 button though to have another set of weapons ready depending on the 
 occasion.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9.5
  Very fun and extremely easy to figure out. The quests that you can get and turn in are clearly 
 marked on the mini map. Even the main quest is clearly marked as opposed to side quests.
  
  SOUND: 8
  Has fast paced music when there is a lot of action on the screen, and great sound effects. 
 Non of the music or sound effects seem to get to annoying either and are of decent quality.
  
  STORY: 7.5
  Simple story that can be fairly humorous at times if you take the time to read 
 the dialog, nothing special though, Demons coming from hell type of thing.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 10
  This is the root of the game IMO. There is a easy to use party menu where other 
 people are looking for a party and you can easily join up with them. The more people in your party 
 the harder the monster are. And one of the best things is that everybody has their own loot to 
 pick up so you don't have to worry about someone stealing anything you want, or find something 
 you want to lose it based on a roll.
  
  FINAL: 8.42 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampericX
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Alright here's the deal... When the game 1st came out it got a bad rep. buggy as hell and basicly 
 not a finished product. But couple months later now its really starting 2 get a kick imo its a 
 great game if you used 2 play diablo/d2 u will def. notice some aspects that if not the same are 
 pretty dern close. 6 different classes 2 choose from you got your ranged classes your spellcasters 
 and then your melee. If you choose ranged its almost like a 1st person shooter whereas melee=hack 
 and slash :) . The 2 spellcasters are basically a mage/warlock like class pure dps and a summoner 
 which will bring in minions 2 help you kill probably my fav class there:) . with the newest patch 
 thats about 2 come on on the 21st they have added almost like a whole new game 2 hellgate so if 
 you had played it b4 and quit because of things looking the same or bugs you might wanna check 
 it out again, or if you havent ever checked it out well then go 4 it!. It killed my addiction 2 
 wow where i was getting annoyed by countless farming and countless instances where you may never 
 get the loot you want where it is supposed 2 be "random" well in hellgate it really is "random". 
 But hey if you still arent sure check out the webpage or try out the demo either or like i said 
 it started out buggy and kinda harsh but most games do these days, but now its a whole new ball 
 game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 19, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I love games like this, I love collecting items then trudging back to a merchant to sell them and 
 watch my money increase. 
  I love creating new items from things I have broken down.
  I am a big fan of these "hoarding" style games, and FPS types are my favorite.
  So I have mixed 
 feelings for this game. On one hand I love it, on the other I hate it.
  I love it for the reasons stated above.
  I hate it because the graphics aren't very good and 
 its just so incredibly repetitive.
  At the most I can play the game for maybe 3 hours before I just get sick of the sight of the same 
 blocky textures and the same enemies, I turn it off then vowing never to play it again.
  The next day I turn it back on again and repeat the process again.
  The action is the basic run 
 backwards whilst shooting at enemies style that most mindless shooters excel at, theres no thinking 
 needed to play the game. 
  As I say this is okay for a few hours at a time at the most, and if you don't like hoarding items 
 then avoid this game its not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GregoryV
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was a long time coming and I was expecting more after the wait. It has come from the 
 writers of Diablo and as such I had expected to be drawn in the same way. There was a hint of this 
 with the opening movie but once the game starts there is nothing special. The storey is too linear 
 with access to the next area limited by progress. It appears that you will be able to pick up all 
 quests along the way as the quest givers are all located at central hubs, just like Diablo.
  
  I am used to having access to a wide range of equipment and upgrades so this side of the game 
 does not set it apart from others.
  
  The look is not particularly eye catching. Load times are considered excessive and this includes 
 single player mode. Again more was expected with the spec requirements. Controls are reasonable.
 
  
  I have played in the multiplayer environment but not with groups so I am unable to provide comment 
 on this side of the game.
  
  With limited time to play any game this will not be my first choice. I think it will be back to 
 World of Warcraft for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannytitus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing HG for a couple of hours and ive been enjoying it all the way. Its alot like Diablo 
 2 but with a little bit more. And I hope to join the online server very soon because I would love 
 to play HG online and many other games :-) . Can anyone give me an idea of how long Hellgate London 
 is. Because I have no idea of how far in the game I am and I would like to hear from someone that 
 has played the game before and finished it.
  
  But other than that HG is a very satisfying game and loads of fun. The game does have some issues 
 regarding replay value and the fact that my sound usually cuts out and starts making the strange 
 sound like I'm suppose to be in a Horror Movie. But I enjoy it because the Plus points over power 
 the disappointments. And anyone looking for a great role-playing game should really try and play 
 HG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok. First of all, let me make you a promise: Ill try not to mention Diablo on this review. How 
 is that? You think I can make it? Well, lets see.
  
  This game puts you in the boots of a Templar tasked with the destruction of the hellish menace 
 that afflicts London. You can choose to be one of these 6 classes: Blademaster (the barbarian) 
 Guardian (the paladin) , Evoker (the sorceress) Engineer (the druid) , Summoner (the necromacer) 
 and the marksman (the amazon) . Each of these classes has its own pros and cons, like, the blademaster 
 dual wielding swords for great effect to the expense of no shields, or the guardian being a walking 
 tank against masses but not being equally effective against single foes. The classes are very well 
 balanced, and each are different enough so that each provides a unique gaming experience.
  
  But theres where "unique" ends. Once you start to play, youll notice not only that graphics 
 are barely beyond Tabula Rasa's level (which means that arent exactly gorgeous) , but also animations 
 for your char can be counted with a single hand fingers... and not all fingers are needed. This 
 gives a repetitive air to the slashing which is worsened terribly by the fact that all dungeons 
 look EXACTLY the same (actually, I had one dungeon that was the same as one 3 stations before... 
 just that with the starting stairs mirrored) . The "sameness" on layouts wouldnt bother me that 
 much, if it werent because of t he fact that there seems to be only 4 tilesets: Subway (for stations) 
 sewers, street and maintenance. Of course, there is hell, but that sub-cluster is not even worthy 
 of counting. If you are able to see through this clouding faults, however, youll find a very (and 
 I mean VERY) addictive game. The amount of loot you can gather is almost overwhelming, and is generously 
 dropped among the also generously provided demons.
  
  However, like a vicious circle, we find the same repetitiveness on the demon slaying. See, while 
 Doom's demons had the advantage of being the first, and Diablo's of being small enough for you 
 not to care, the similarity of demons here is so "in-your-face" that youll feel at times you never 
 left the first dungeon. Level 1 Flesh Golems are exactly the same as Level 10 Grotesques, and the 
 same applies to other beasties. Ive been playing for 38 hours, and I swear Ive only seen like, 
 20 monsters. Of course, there are more than 4 variations each, allegedly being "80" monsters... 
 But changing color and size sometimes doesnt cut it.
  
  But, even if they are all twins, they are incredibly satisfactory to kill. The sound of sword cutting 
 flesh and flames burning meat is fantastic... But, regrettably, bullet penetrating brains isnt 
 as good. Weapons feel like they are all fake, and the feeling is even more notorious without ammo 
 or reloading of any kind. This makes the marksman a rather noiseless class... in a bad way.
  
  Other quirks include MASSIVE framerate drops without any reason (I ran 58 FPS on a massive 
 train station warehouse with 50+ critters on screen but slowed down to 2-5 FPS staring at a box 
 =/ ) and some shadow clippin bugs.
  
  Now, after reading all this, you might say that this game is bad, right?
  
  Well, let me tell 
 you: despite of the times Ive cursed at the frame drops, yawned at the same creeps and stretched 
 at the "random" dungeons, the game is actually FUN. When you find a boss you feel some sort of 
 rush, and seeing all those demons waiting just for you to go and slash their puny asses is an extremely 
 entertaining task. Sure, quests arent extremely bright, but that doesnt stop you from slaying lots 
 of monsters with a smile in your face. Music makes a great job at transmitting power, even if kicks 
 in randomly and ever-so-fleeting.
  
  The skills offer a large array of customizing branches, but is a bit messy. Youll have to be careful 
 to look all the options and requirements to succeed on leveling your toon the way you want to.
 
  
  So, there. A Hellgate: London review without saying the word "Diablo". Of course, now that the 
 review has ended, let me add a P. S:
  
  P. S: This game is modern age Diablo II. Shame Diablo II did all of this before. Otherwise, Hellgate 
 London would have been a revelation. As is, is like "Future Diablo II Mod for Tabula Rasa". And 
 even like that, it delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NassauBob
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I'm surprised at the mediocre reviews this game has received. I am enjoying it immensely, and for 
 good reason. Look, repetitive combat and endless loot ventures are exactly what made the Diablo 
 franchise so enjoyable, and spawned a multitude of look-alikes. I like piecing together awesome 
 armor sets and searching for that ultimate unique weapon that will enable me to, well, look for 
 the next ultimate weapon. For hardcore action RPG enthusiasts such as myself, the main storyline 
 isn't the only reason for playing the game. Heck, sweet weapons and goodies are unquestionably 
 Priority ONE for many action RPG'ers.
  
  All the unfortunate bad comparisons to Diablo2 aside, the game has a gripping storyline, difficult 
 but achievable quests, and breathtaking visual effects. Haven't noticed any glitches or bugs so 
 far, either, a plus in this day and age of ship 'em then fix 'em titles.
  
  I also noticed a certain smart AI in the game's "monsters", including one creature's habit of leaping 
 just out of striking distance when swung upon, and another's ability to teleport to the player's 
 six and attack him/her from behind.
  
  All in all, I am thrilled with the product, hope it has many more hours of gameplay until the end, 
 and will definitely be looking forward to a sequel. Perhaps this is the interlude to a new Diablo 
 chapter? 
  
  We'll see.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLAZZING
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London when I first notice in 2006 August, that time I just hope that it will be a game 
 that awesome. I don't have to much hope that time because that time I am not so much familiar to 
 RPG game. That time I also was waiting for another RPG game Oblivion. When I get Oblivion in November 
 at the first time that means after 30 hours of playing I thought it's a game that should get only 
 rating of 7. 
  
  But when I get understand that what Oblivion is then after playing more than 290 hours still I 
 want to play Oblivion again & again from the beginning.
  
  The main thing is after playing Oblivion I started to think that Hellgate London will be a game 
 like Oblivion, or may be more than Oblivion.
  
  That thought encourage me because of Screen shots may be especially Video clips.
  
  I started 
 to think that Hellgate London is going to get 10 out of 10 rating.
  
  Even I saw several dreams about Hellgate London!
  
  When Hellgate London demo released 70% 
 people told that it's a disappointing game.
  But that time my vision was that, Hellgate London can never get that kind of comments.
  And that 
 time I started rate those comments that it is not helpful (Sorry about that) .
  
  After get Hellgate London & after playing Hellgate London 5-6 hours my high hope going to down. 
 Because after playing a game like Oblivion when u play a game like Hellgate London, then it's hard 
 to say that what will be in your mind.
  
  If anyone don't like Oblivion then I want to tell u that, Oblivion is a game that if u don't understand 
 then it will be a boring game to u. The same thing happened to me when I played Oblivion about 
 30 hours, because that time I didn't understand what Oblivion is.
  
  Now after playing Hellgate London here some comments about this game;
  
  1. It's not an open-ended 
 game (not recommended) ; it's too close-ended game.
  2. Every cities looks like copy of another city (developer called randomization) .
  3. Same as 
 tunnels all are same.
  4. Graphics are too bad, some gamers said that with DirectX 10 that would better, but u gamers 
 should check there faces (NPC faces)
  5. There is no ammo system, that's too boring because after playing that game 10 hours u should 
 understand that.
  6. Side quests are simply waste of time. Some gamers said that it's OK because u can level up with 
 that, but u can see every side quest is same as other.
  7. Skills tree, that means Skills are very simple, there is no specialty. (If u want to see what 
 skills should be then u should check Oblivion, again I want to tell u that u have to recognize 
 what is Oblivion, otherwise Oblivion will not a Diamond to u, it will be a rock nothing else) . 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicardo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I think HELLGATE is a great game. I've been a Diablo fan for many years. But my recent encounters 
 with the NETWORK ERROR is really getting onto my nerves. I've been playing MMORPG games for many 
 years (8 years) . DAoC, Lineage II, WoW, Guildwars ... etc. I love all of them becos they never 
 give me problems like this. I guess thats what happens when games goes live initially but HELLGATE 
 has been out for months. I would expect bugs and network issues to be solved by now.
  
  I play HELLGATE with my friend on VISTA and XP last night concurrently sharing the same wireless 
 network. We both have the free AVG anti-virus running. While playing for about 2 hours, my friend 
 on VISTA have no issues while I keep getting "NETWORK ERROR" for about 4 times.
  
  With so much problems, player numbers should be dropping and hence "NETWORK ERROR" might be resolved 
 effortlessly. Good luck HELLGATE.
  
  Wilson Chicardo
  Rich Web Application Specialist
  Barclays Capital 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paxter_faizal
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Thing about titles that say "from the makers of blablabla" you know there is a 70% chance it will 
 suck. This game is at best is a so... so... game. I like the graphics, it was decent enough but 
 this game is neither FPS, MMO, or RPG its like neither here nor there.... I think the developers 
 were playing too safe with the success of diablo that they didnt try to push that limit... The 
 storyline is practically not there at all... i remembered when i finish act 1 i had no clue what 
 was going on and that stupid teleport to see that aura thinggy was like a sad try to tie it up 
 to the storyline... and the act cut scene was badly done the book animation look like something 
 that came out in the 90s... I also would like to add.... 
  
  I have no bloody idea why some minor things like able to reset your skill points, slightly smarter 
 AI, little bit more animation in the characters, and more randomly tiles to put in, when the random 
 generated dungeons are made. Were not done? 
  
  if this few things were actually done, i would have push my rating to 6.... at least the randomness 
 boredom is not as bad as it is now!
  
  On the online experience.... my only real fun is actually seeing more templars (players) in those 
 subways.... makes it more nicer.... and the 10 bucks per month is pointless... extra difficulty 
 setting, and the other bunch of mumbo crap ness should be free... the Chat system is totally unusable, 
 and common guys... its practically impossible to trade.... if only there was an auction house or 
 something to make it easier to trade items, then the game would do slightly better since, the only 
 thing they got right is the items galore they should have just stick to that and made it the ultimate 
 clueless game but great for item hording.
  
  BTW on the context of silly AI, i found out this silly trick.... you know when u have to go thru 
 that hells rift... to meet some boss... let him go up to where the rift is and just kite him round 
 and round and he actually gets disorientated... its kinda funny. (ex wow hunter: P) and if ur life 
 is too low just jump back into the rift drink up quickly and go back in... 
  
  On the good side... The game is great if you want a brain dead experience of just spending a few 
 hrs go in some randomly made dungeon and go blow stuff up... i know i did that, i was bored and 
 played the demo and felt hey this game is great to waste time with minimum effort in brain usage... 
 i baught the full game and spent my sunday blowing stuff up for the fun of it. and getting items 
 and tweak your identity crisis char to the fullest. Then again if thats your high, then might as 
 well play wow... 
  
  i felt if this ppl were actually the makers of diablo they would have done more to make it a classic.... 
 sadly this game will end up in the discount box in 6 months.... and its time for me to go colllect 
 more pointless stuff for my hunter in WoW at least that feels more rewarding, than going into some 
 badly design dungeon.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Good things:
  :: Best armour ever made in a game. Unbelievable and unique.
  :: Addictive
  :: Very very nice monsters
  :: Got "D2" potential
  :: Epic feeling
  
  Bad things:
  :: 
 Still some bigger bugs
  :: More content needed
  
  As many other have said I also feel that this game is a bit shallow but the graphic is OK and optimized. 
 As I said so many times before I don't care to much
  about the graphics if the idea is great and gives me the right feeling. This is exactly what HG: L 
 does. So what if the graphics couldn't be compared to Crysis.
  I don't go see an action movie if I want fantasy. I don't play FPS if I want to play RPG.
  I'm 
 confident that the game will have "it" as D2 has "it". Is there bugs? Yes... Could there be more 
 content? Yes.
  Reading the forums I'm sure FSS is working on every aspect of the game and we are still waiting 
 for the first major patch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Logix
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Whoa! The only reason I played through to the bitter end was because I shelled out the cash for 
 it. "From the creators of Diablo" DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE! I didn't score this game lower because 
 the monsters do look good, and it has zombies (2 points) . The RPG elements (story) and the so called 
 FPS elements ( Hunter class) are at best mediocre. Game mechanics (like shelling out 40,000 Palladium 
 for a "Legendary" property that is totally useless just about makes you want to cry) , repetitive 
 environments and monsters, and of course the bugs (invisible party members... still not fixed with 
 the patch) and server errors make this a true waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildbucingBill
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  As a hard core adult gamer who has invested a lot in my pc and video games systems ( have a great 
 pc, all 3 next gen and both handhelds) and bought hundreds of software titles through the years, 
 I felt totaly rippd off by this (if you call it one) game. With so many quality A and B titles 
 on the shelves, to have this product even considered a next gen game is a sham on the unsuspecting 
 public. 
  My review.... To be blunt... It plays like garbage. The creatures you are supposed to be fighting 
 have no AI whatsover...
  The graphics while somewhat sharp, are not that great. (I have a Intel Dual Core E6400, 2 gigs 
 ram and a Geforce 8800 GTS OC video card) . Not compared to what is out there on the market now. 
 It kind of reminds me of one of the older terminator games they used to sell. Your main character 
 seems to hop around and move unrealisticly. When you first start you are supposed to be following 
 a NPC around to the tunnels (subway) and his movement is very eratic and unrealistic as well. Gamespots 
 score of 7.0 is vey generous, but in my opinion way off base. I wanted to like this game and studied 
 the reviews befofe wasting my gift card on this. Wow.. I must have been a very bad boy this year 
 because this game is not a gift but a big lump of coal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeftyJoeF
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The most anticipated game of the year for me! A huge diablo fan, love RPGs, excited for the real 
 world setting (London) , and even read the first book (the other 2 come out later) to get a head 
 start on the back story of the game. I loved the book so much that it made me that much more excited 
 for the game...
  
  Two months later and it sits on the hard drive...
  
  I think the most disappointing aspect of the game is that the beautiful storyline set up by the 
 book is virtually unused. The missions are uninspired, often overly simplisitic, and sometimes 
 just plain weird. Because the story is almost non-existent, the game becomes a mindless journey 
 of hacking and slashing and hacking and slashing and hacking and slashing and... so on and so on. 
 The three different character classes do make the game a little replayable, but at least the RPG 
 action is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGravy02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Hellgate is a very good game in my opinion with passable graphics and good gameplay. I had been 
 looking forward to it for about 2 years and it met most of my hopes and satisfied me enough. It 
 has excellent cutscenes and a good story, especially in the graphic novel that came with the collector's 
 edition. It was the background story to the game, which had very good art and writing. Interesting 
 dialogue and makes more sense of the game's beginning and develops the characters. I haven't yet 
 finished the game, but I feel Hellgate will end meeting my expectations as well. I had to dumb 
 down my graphics for my cruddy PC but what I could see, was about average for current games. This 
 may just because I hyped it so much through the years that I liked it so much, but I believe that 
 most gamers would have an adequate time playing this game because of the obvious amount of effort 
 that was put into designing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunface1011
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  With and interesting storyline and simple gameplay you would think that this would be an easy game 
 to pick up and play, but its still in its early stages, so of course it starts of a little weird.
 
  
  Gameplay: 3/5
  the gameplay uses a WoW type of interface with skills, and diablo type fighting
  
  Story: 2/5
 
  While the story is present, it dosent do much to make itself interesting, which leads to its repetetive 
 gameplay, you finish quests in one hub, then its off to another.
  
  Alltogether the game is fun, and i will agree partially addictive it still lacks some of the more 
 complex things that made games like WoW, and elderscrolls good as a roleplaying game and an MMO. Despite 
 this reveiw theres still some fun to be had here in HG: L but with its horrible storyline and sometimes 
 frustrating gameplay it can be a rough ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Playing Hellgate London is tons of fun to the point when you realize that the surroundings are 
 all the same almost all the time. Character selection is also very important 'cause all of the 
 characters can not use and try all of the imaginative weapons. The enemy designs look great but 
 after a few levels they, like the surroundings, begin to look alike varying only in color and strenght. 
 I played single game so I can't comment on the on-line aspect of the game but even in single play 
 I couldn't seem to stop playing always saying just this level then I'm done but it's not so if 
 you have the time to see what it is like in postapocalyptic London try it out see how it fits. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mateuderos
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  I had great hopes on this one, but it turned out to be a huge dissapointment.
  
  The main problem is Developers tried to mix in many different things, and this usually has an unhappy 
 ending.
  
  To make a long story short:
  
  Flagship Studios tried to retain Diablos essence combined with MMORPG elements and the possibility 
 to play the game either in 1st and 3rd person camera.
  
  Result:
  
  MMO elements do not fit naturally on this kind of games. Kill X times Y is no fun. Not anymore.
 
  
  Diablo essence is... lost. Story is not engaging. Quests, as said, are painful and guard little 
 to absolute no relation to main plot, which at the same time is inconsisten with serious gaps. 
 FAR FROM DIABLO AMAZINF STORY. 
  
  THe menus are taken straight from mid 90s games, and dont get me started on release bugs...
  
 
  Verdict: Mr. Ropper should have stayed at Blizzard
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumblor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Hellgate : London was waited by every man and woman , whom calls him/herself "Bloody RPG fan". 
 And waited VERY much by every man or woman , whom calls him/herself "Bloody RPG fanand "Freeky 
 FPS fan". For most , it was rpg , for others , it was fps. The "Freeky FPS fans" are dissapointed 
 now , but "Bloody RPG fans" are dancing and shouting "I've got LEGENDARY STUFF !!!"
  
  To make a long story short one , hellgate london is a decent RPG , though stupid FPS. RPG characters 
 are Blademasters and Guardians , Evokers and Summoners. Ones who chose them now are happily playing 
 , Online or Offline. And , surely , FPS fans chose Marksman , FPS and RPG engineer. Marksmen will 
 be disapointed , and Engineer will be half disapointed. When you should , weapon doesn't move at 
 all , croschair is still like a tree. This takes out half of the fun in the game. Secondly , weapons 
 have max range. This is unrealistic and freakin'. Exception for snipers , which have great range.
 
  
  Opponents AI is ussualy dumb as a rock , except some. Imp Troopers will tank Imp Snipers from you 
 and your friends , some will shield your enemy , some will ressurect them , some will make them 
 until infinite number is reached. AI provides no difficulty. If you are ranged class , you will 
 ussualy run back and shoot. Bosses are dumb as two rocks , 'cause they have special powers of sorts. 
 AI is abscent. I don't say that zombies need good AI , but whatabout imps ?
  
  Graphics are good. And optimized. My 7600 GT easily handled maxed graphics. All in graphics is 
 good , shadows excluded. Some things in the game (they vary) don't have shadow. I laughed a bit 
 , when I was on stairs , checked my shadow. It was like my shadow was flying. No shadow for stairs. 
 Also , the shadow is light-source independent. This isn't good if you didn't understood what I 
 meant. Shadows will allways come from one direction , no matter how many lightsources there are.
 
  
  What statisfies RPG fans , is Rare , Epic , Legendary items. Bosses drop 'em. There are many of 
 Bosses. That means..... Legendary items party 
  No , really. You get great items way too fast. Remember WoW. Yeah , good item once in five levels. 
 Maybe someone will like such fast drop-rate. I don't.
  
  The story isn't good. It didn't intriguide me. I love games with good story. But story isn't the 
 main thing in this game either. 
  
  Hellgate is disapointment for many , but this is still a good game , isnt it ? Bill , if you gonna 
 make another rpg , or maybe even hellgate's sequel , make fps part better , and better story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saergas
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London was supposed to be what Diablo II has been for so long, the most addictive game 
 ever. But it's quite dissapointing in my opinion. It's hard to tell what's wrong with the game, 
 but somehow it seems like Flagship Studios put 2 months of effort into this game and then thought: 
 Right.. it's brilliant, let's just demo it for a year and add nothing.
  That might be a bit harsh, the game isn't bad to play, it's pretty fun actually, but I had expected 
 so much more from the heroes of Diablo.
  The Character building is the only thing I really enjoy, aside from the occasional hack 'n slash 
 pleasure you get while fighting, but because there's an option to pay monthly and receive loads 
 of extra's, the whole justice and fun just seems.. lost. I would have preffered in-game ads over 
 this system anytime.
  As for ratings, graphics receive an 8, gameplay 7, value 7, audio 6, replayability 7.
  There, 
 I said it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sholtriu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I find this game horribly addicting, even worse than WoW. I grew up with Diablo so this is a nice 
 transition from D2. Same basic premises and lots and lots of gear. Whats not to love. The bugs 
 are just that, bugs. Little nuisances that can be a horrible inconvenience but not devastating. 
 People need to give FFS more time to fix everything. I do agree with the gamespot reviewer though 
 saying that the single player is useless. After I tested the classes and knew what i wanted to 
 be, I completely stopped using the single player. I mean WoW was the same way when it started. 
 For all those out there who think this game is a bust because of bugs, "Don't yell at the noobs, 
 you were a noob once."
  
  BTW Im Dollon, lvl 31 gaurdian, Shulgoth U. S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_hye
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  I bought hellgate londong a couple of days ago, and i'm really happy about that. It has some very 
 cool graphics, environments, models and so on. you get to shoot/stab lots of lots of lots of demons, 
 as they have almost spammed this game with enemy AI, making it fun to play.
  
  This game has alot of glitches and stuff. but then again, i've only experienced server not working 
 (crash) , sometimes i TP back to where i started. few AI "lags" weapons sometimes doesn't do damage. 
 but it isn't really ruining my game...
  Glitches is in every single game, and will always get fixed, some faster than others.
  
  I've 
 played through the most of the first act, and i'm not bored yet, i especially like the FPS "mode" 
 when carrying guns. pure fun when in dark areas and zombies rush agains't you. the weapons you 
 carry can sometimes get "upgraded". you may want to put a magazine into your rifle? and it will 
 give 15 extra stun damage. or what about a battery giving it better accuracy.
  what's nice too is that the weapon "change" when you apply them.
  
  Hellgate london reminds 
 me of Diablo II. mostly because of the "singleplayer" quests, and resetting the areas by going 
 out and in again.
  i like that, because i've seen in World of Warcraft that people Curse at each other because someone 
 kills a guy that some other guy has been waiting for. so he can't complete his quest.
  This thing fixes the problem. if you wanna multiplay a quest? make a party. as simple as that.
 
  
  here is a simple telled version of what i wrote ^.
  
  Good : nice graphics, nice modeling, great idea, userfriendly, no boring moments.
  
  Bad : 
 Glitches, FPS mode a little too simple, server crashes, not much freedom in moving around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  As PC gamers, we know Diablo kicked all sorts of ass. It was a graphically stunning, addictive, 
 and spellbinding experience. The story, the graphics, the characters, the music, the gameplay... 
 it all came together in an amazing package that defined computer role playing games for years. 
 Fast forward to Hellgate: London, a modern role playing game from Flagship studios, a development 
 house which includes members of the original Diablo dev team.
  
  Hellgate: London seeks to modernize the Diablo experience with a fresh location, game engine, and 
 storyline. Unfortunately, the game misses the mark in several areas, namely level design and the 
 overall story arc. However, the core gameplay in Hellgate is fantastic, and with a fun setting, 
 good visuals, atmospheric sound, and free online multiplayer, Hellgate: London is recommendable 
 to people looking to hack, slash, shoot, and loot their way to the next level online.
  
  The story has to do with the forces of Hell overrunning Earth for several years in a drawn out 
 process referred to as "the burn", where Hell gradually eradicates life on Earth as we know it 
 and assimilates the planet for its evil purposes. Humanity only has a select group of survivors 
 split into several different factions, which you can choose from upon character creation. While 
 there are some pretty fun pre-rendered sequences that punctuate the storyline, they're few and 
 far between... and most of the story is lost in a pile of random quests that task you with killing 
 x amount of monster y or defeating a powerful boss. Truth be told, though, the setting feels pretty 
 fresh compared to most online games, and you probably won't care much when you start laying waste 
 to the hordes.
  
  And laying waste to the hordes is definitely where Hellgate succeeds. The action just feels good, 
 and there's plenty of exciting loot to be acquired. Hellgate: London follows the Diablo formula 
 very closely here, as you'll find tons of random equipment drops, some of which will have special 
 properties, and some of which are incredibly rare and valuable. The game also features a robust 
 character leveling system which presents you with 4 basic stats to level as you see fit, along 
 with a skill tree not unlike what you see in games like World of Warcraft. All of these things 
 are executed very well, and make up an exciting core gameplay model that will have you glued to 
 your computer for longer than you had planned.
  
  It's a good thing the core gameplay in Hellgate: London is so strong, too, as it's the stuff built 
 around it that starts to drag down the package. Following in the footsteps of Diablo yet again, 
 the levels in Hellgate: London are all randomly generated for a different experience any time you 
 play. However well it worked in Diablo is beside the point, because the move to a three dimensional 
 game engine makes random levels feel stale and boring after a while. On repeated playthroughs, 
 it doesn't matter that you might go right where you previously went left, or up where you had gone 
 down... it just all bleeds together in an uninteresting maze of repeated tilesets and copy/pasted 
 rooms. There are a few set pieces, but they're very few and far between. It's unfortunate, because 
 the fictional setting has the potential for some cool scenarios, but the reality is that the level 
 design really doesn't match the quality of the core gameplay.
  
  The story in Hellgate: London is also a bit of a letdown. It starts of with a very slick intro 
 sequence that sets the stage for an apocalyptic role playing experience, but that's pretty much 
 where it stops. The story is mainly a thinly veiled excuse for you to go there, kill that, and 
 come back for more. The characters in the game also don't really stand out very much. While there 
 are one or two characters who have some personality, and some unexpectedly funny one-liners after 
 npc conversations, most of the computer controlled characters in the game are little more than 
 quest vending machines.
  
  Then there are the bugs. While most of the time the game runs fine online, there are certain instances 
 where you will be loading a new zone and the game will boot you out with a network error. It can 
 be really frustrating if you just made a long trek to one of the game's stations for the first 
 time, because you end up having to do it all over again. Also, there's an odd glitch where, upon 
 resurrecting, your screen will stay in the ghostly black and white mode that you see when you die. 
 In this case, the only fix seems to be exiting and restarting. Other things like bugged quest lines, 
 interface glitches, and the occasional random framerate crash kind of sully the experience a bit. 
 While the bugs aren't frequent enough to ruin the game by any means, but they are noticeable.
 
  
  Now all of that might sound pretty negative, but the truth of the matter is that despite all of 
 the above, Hellgate: London is still a very fun and addictive role playing game. The gameplay model 
 is nothing new, but it is tried and true, and Flagship has definitely polished all of the pillaging 
 and looting to a shine. Factor in nice graphics, cool art direction, a haunting soundtrack, and 
 free online play, and you've got yourself a good time ahead.
  
  While not on the same level as the game it so obviously borrows from, Hellgate: London is a solid 
 choice for gamers who just love to hack, slash, and collect cool stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London is notable because it's from the same folks who brought us Diablo. Diablo was a 
 Mexican holiday game where you would try and bowl pumpkins down a bowling alley while trying to 
 knock over bottles of Tequila. No it wasn't. Actually Diablo was a top-down-perspective dungeon 
 crawl that was very popular. Why was it so popular? I'm not sure anyone sent out a survey to find 
 out, but if I were to guess it would be that the game had low system requirements, online multiplayer, 
 and unique items. The later being attractive to players since their characters could be fairly 
 well customized and interesting. Somehow this combination made the game a huge success. I'm sure 
 everyone has their own reasons why they liked the game as well, but I just wanted to hit on those 
 basics to give you an understanding of why Hellgate: London doesn't work like Diablo did so many 
 years ago.
  
  
  
  Like Diablo, Hellgate: London is multiplayer and contains unique items. Except now it's a first 
 person shooter, takes place in a near future London instead of a dungeon, and has much higher system 
 requirements. It also has unique dungeon areas, and a plethora of extra customization options for 
 your weapons and a form of crafting that lets you augment items.
  
  
  
  Most of this is done well, and none of it is in anyway bad. Unfortunately that's not all there 
 is, Hellgate: London does feel a bit MMORPG like, when the game itself is not an MMORPG. For instance, 
 you receive missions to travel to an area that is a number of levels away. (Imagine moving from 
 area to area and each area has a different theme with different monsters. And you have to go through 
 3 or 4 of them to reach your end mission. ) Each level contains a number of critters that you fight. 
 Usually in batches of 30 or 40 that are mostly the same. You move slowly from one end to another 
 while holding down the attack button until they die, loot, heal, and repeat. If this sounds like 
 most MMORPG titles you've played, you'll feel right at home here. And just like those titles it's 
 all a bit dull. Combat involves shooting or swinging a sword in close combat. You do this by holding 
 down either mouse button until the creature is dead. You then move on to the next creature while 
 also holding down a key to retrieve all the items that were dropped by the dead creature. You progress 
 in this way until you face a tougher creature, and then you might only change up your tactics by 
 using some health stims or casting a spell.
  
  
  
  And this lack of interesting game play is one of Hellgate's main sticking points. I believe the 
 majority of the audience that loved to play Diablo have moved on to titles like World of Warcraft 
 that do most of the things Diablo did and more. The years have caused gaming to evolve, and Hellgate: 
 London feels as though it should have come out 5 years ago, or it should have elevated the game 
 play elements to give us something new. That's not what we have here. Instead, Hellgate feels like 
 it wants to be Diablo's older brother, but forgot how to be fun along the way.
  
  
  
  I want you to know, I'm going on like this because I wanted to like Hellgate: London. I was willing 
 to overlook some of the bugs (Like you can't progress because the way out is blocked off because 
 the random level generator sometimes doesn't leave you with an exit) like the ones where the system 
 just crashes out to the desktop, and the patches aren't even given a proper version number. (As 
 of this review, they are on patch 0.6) Even through all this, I wanted to walk away with a satisfying 
 Diablo like experience. It just didn't happen though, and I felt as though even with more patches 
 to address the bug issues, nothing can save Hellgate's boring and repetitious game play.
  
  
  
  We should all face another fact, that piracy greatly helped Diablo succeed. Gamers would 
 copy the game and distribute it to friends to allow them to all play together. While no one has 
 any idea what the ratio of bought vs stolen copies were, anyone can guess that the majority of 
 owners probably copied it from a friend or downloaded it from a warez source. This lack of copy 
 protection allowed first adopters to share the game with friends who weren't likely to drop $50 
 for it. This community aspect probably helped the game succeed, but now Hellgate London and other 
 games are locked down in such a way to make it impossible to successfully play online and freely 
 copy it. That's not to say the developers should have opened up the game for rampant piracy, but 
 one can look at this as one more reason for Diablo's success vs why Hellgate doesn't work. I really 
 think Hellgate could have used a more open license where one could buy the game and share it with 
 two friends. This would create the community aspect that the game needs. Hellgate: London and Diablo 
 style games are more fun among friends than anonymous strangers (Like regular MMORPG titles) . But 
 trying to convince your friends to buy a lackluster single player game like Hellgate is not going 
 to go over well. And that leaves you with playing among strangers and kids. It just doesn't feel 
 the same and simply doesn't work out as being a fun gaming experience.
  
  
  
  There are a number of things about Hellgate: London that work. It has a competent inventory and 
 customization system. It has good graphics and an interesting world behind it. But the fact that 
 the game remains dull, and there are rampant bugs makes it a title that is best left until the 
 next version is released. Maybe when they release an expansion pack or significant patch that cleans 
 up the game's weak points and includes some other play mechanic besides simply fighting, moving, 
 fighting, moving, fighting, moving, etc that would be the time to buy this game. For now, considering 
 all the other great titles that have come out this year, I suggest spending your money elsewhere. 
 In my opinion, Hellgate: London was released too early.
  
  
  
  Two out of Five stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weggierie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Ok time for my own opinion on Hellgate London. Ive been following this around for quite a while 
 now and I was waiting for the user reviews before I bought the game for myself, but seeing mixed 
 reactions to the game made me take a gamble and just buy the god forsaken game. I wasn't disappointed 
 although I expected a more deep engaging storyline and hardcore character building skills. I may 
 have an advantage over the first reviewers since Flagship already released patches which addressed 
 most of the critical bugs so I played the Hellgate London that was very different from the game 
 that hit the shelves. Lets me give a you a more detailed rundown...
  
  Graphics- Id say Great, I run it on DX9 and it still looks good, game slows down in high smoke/fire/special 
 effect areas but its my PC's fault and ive seen it play on a better PC with better Specs than mine 
 (gotta save up for a new vid card)
  
  Sound- Lacking... and although the opening cinematic was kickass the rest of the game feels like 
 a cheap comedy show (Try talking to the Item Vendor in Oxford Circus Station) the guns? Meh lacks 
 the ooomph of a good rifle sound, the Zeus Rifle sounds quite right though but generally sound 
 shouldve been better.
  
  Gameplay- GREAT! I dont know if its the items or the randomness of the loots but this game really 
 sucks up a lot of time and constantly finding a better weapon is an engaging activity and the cool 
 fact is even normal weapon or items with crappy stats have uses in this game unlike other RPG's 
 where you ignore lower leveled or chump items because you have no use for them, here you break 
 down the item and either create new ones or upgrade you existing one, this feature alone consumes 
 a lot of time as I constantly jump from station to station trying to find a crafter with good selections.
 
  
  Verdict- You love or hate Hellgate London, I love it but im keeping it real, Gamespots score of 
 7.0 is kinda right even though Flagship released patches to fix the bugs, the game that was released 
 should be playable from the get go, next time Diablo Guys (Flagship) A little more polish but overall 
 I love this game, I you are wondering if Hellgate London is worth a shot, try it now, who knows? 
 You may like it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spamin76
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say? I really wanted this game to be good. It was ok, not horrible, just not good, 
 and unfortunately not really that fun. Just go and dust off Diablo II if you need your fix, but 
 I wouldn't spend the money on this. If you need to bash monsters and shoot demons so badly that 
 it is the only way you will ever be happy, I guess you might like this game if the premise can 
 get you through the sketchy game play... but ultimately, if the premise does not appeal to you 
 so much that you can overlook the games mediocrity, you are better off looking elsewhere.
  
  I am not sure why you would want to waste your time on this game when there are so many better 
 games out there, whether you like MMOs, RPGs, or FPS there really are better games in each individual 
 category and there are even better hybrid games that overlap. Play those, don't waste your time 
 on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of Diablo, in fact, I hate it, it's boring!
  But ever since I saw Hellgate, even though the developers were the Diablo team, I got hooked up. The 
 idea of the post-apocalyptic London got my attention right away, and so did the gameplay.
  But.... this is yet another disappointing game.... though not as disappointing as Blacksite or Stranglehold.
 
  Hellgate: London takes place in Iraq, were you must fight your way through alien hordes with a light 
 saber while wearing a very tight bikini...... FINE... I'm just playin' with ya'^_^
  For real, the game takes place in.. London (no sh*t) , where somewhere in the future, the demons raided 
 the city and took over it completely, and you need to liberate it from it's decaying state and get 
 rid of those bastards.
  Graphics - 7
  The environment looks great, and so do the enemies. The textures and lightning is great, and the effects 
 are great looking.
  The characters.... on the other hand... look BAD, especially the faces.
  Overall, they could've give some time for making the characters look as great as the rest of the 
 game.
  Audio - 7
  NOT so good. The characters dialogue is lame as hell, and they barely speak, and when they do.... it's 
 simply bad...
  The music and the sound effects on the other hand are really good, the music really gives this gothic\creepy 
 atmosphere for the game, and that's a good thing.
  Gameplay - 7
  From the RPG respective, the game sucks, the elements are poorly made and the game feels really shallow... which 
 is something really surprising for a game that came from the makers of one of the most famous and 
 popular RPG ever made (though I don't like it, i see that a a lot of people do) . I mean, looking back 
 at TES IV Oblivion, this game is simply a LEAGUE away.
  On the other hand, the action itself is great. It almost looks like the developers gave all of the 
 attention for the hacking-&-slashing elements than the RPG ones.
  It's fun to collect weapons and gear and upgrading it, it's fun to run around a great looking apocalyptic 
 world killing all kinds of twisted enemies, and it's fun to complete tons of quest and get more 
 cool stuff from them.... and that's about all there is in the "fun" aspect.
  The controls are also pretty good (not like the clicking controls in diablo, i hated them! OH BOY 
 HOW I DID) and the FPS and 3rd person selection is also great (too bad you need to chose the right 
 class in order to play in either) . While the single player may not shine, the multiplayer is the 
 main attraction for this game, it doesn't looks like the game is made for single player campaign, because 
 the story sucks... a lot, and the NPCs act like rocks (REALLY, this time, they even barely speak) , and 
 playing with other people is really great, because they don't act like rocks (well...... I didn't 
 say everyone) .
  The characters creating is very dull, and isn't as nearly interesting as Oblivion's. The NPCs dialouge 
 reading is boring, I mean, couldn't they've just put some more work and make normal voice actors 
 and not some cheap opening greeting words ("Hey, do you know what time is it? Well, you know what? Who 
 the f*ck cares? Lets do 
  Value - 7
  The single player is pretty shallow, but if you're one of those gamers who just like to go around 
 and kill monsters and collect cr@p from them.... this game can be addictive.
  The multiplayer is great and may be the main missing ingredient for this game shallow.... n. ess.
 
  Overall: This game fails as an RPG, but shines as a normal action adventure game with a lot a "H&S" 
 elements.
  So if you're looking for a deep, exciting RPG, just go for Oblivion, it's so much better. But if you're 
 looking for a great multiplayer experience or a addictive action game, this game might be worth 
 your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruthos
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  This game is riddled with bugs that prevent you from any enjoyment you might have. You can't see 
 your friend your playing with sometimes unless you zone out and zone back in a bunch of times. 
 It is intolerably easy to get stuck in the terrain. When in town, you're position will get reset 
 to a default location all the time. Also, I found the skill trees and progression much less exciting 
 than Diablo 2 (one of my favorite games) . Everything seems very generic and repetitive. Rather 
 than working towards a goal, you do the same types of missions over and over. And a lot of times 
 an item you were supposed to collect in a mission will get stuck in a wall so you will have to 
 redo it!. I'm sorry, but this game was not ready. And I'm sorry to say that even with out the bugs, 
 I doubt it could keep my interest for long. Hopefully Blizzard will make a Diablo 3. /cry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigto
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  I would say playing this till the end was a real waste of my time considering the bad storyline 
 and ending.. The opening video was pretty cool.. some big fight.. a big demon.. a pretty young 
 girl in the making that somewhere down the story u know you'll meet.. but sadly thats the only 
 part of the story they got right.
  
  While trying to keep awake from the repetitive tilesets and monsters.. you get rewarded by some 
 cryptic blabberings about TRUTH and how it will destroy all evil. You console yourself that you 
 dont really care about this TRUTH, just give us the pretty girl that we saw at the opening scene.. 
 Yeah.. she did make her appearance but ever so briefly and really playing an insignificant role 
 in what you're doing in the grander scheme of things. Nevermind that you've got to endure levels 
 totally dark and you can't see a damn thing, nevermind that the game lags even on your new system 
 with the fastest gfx card on the market whenever you try to switch gears, nevermind that the newfound 
 skills that you got at lvl 30 totally sucks and that 95% of the time you'll be using your lvl 1 
 skills which seems 5x more effective than the god damn uber skill you just learnt. Finally and 
 finally.. after killing that awesome big boss.. when you think you'll be rewarded with some cool 
 ending.. you're thrown this crappy video which doesnt make sense and will leave your jaw gaping 
 with only the thoughts - WTF!
  
  I should have saved my 3 days and went straight to youtube for the ending cutscene.. Yeah.. so 
 much so for the TRUTH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Well first of all this game is somehow my favorite rpg. I mean only rpg not mmorpg: P Okay now this 
 game has a good graphic, the weapons are numberous and well they look pretty cool even if they 
 lack details. But that's why the graphic is good and not perfect or superb... but if I overthink 
 this london's graphic is similar to halo's... and well... that dosen't matters anyway cause the gameplay 
 compensates everything. Even the story is somehow a lot f*cked up... but as I said the gameplay 
 is the awesomest. I like that u can play with 6 types of classes for example: the blademaster, 
 that is the greatest damage dealer and is equiped with dual swords; then there is the marksman 
 that is a class that rather fights from distance... cause if it happens that you're surrounded u 
 can't follow the drop of shield: P and worse hitpoints... well what compensates for this weak defence 
 is the deadly Burst Shot that is an asset against any kind of enemy and especially when fighting 
 against great numbers. Well I'll talk a little about the guardian now, this is my favorite class 
 actually: P. It is the hardest to kill... but it also kills hard. Despite all this... I say the guardian 
 is the best choice against bosses. And trust me that u'll meet very strong bosses. okay the 4th 
 is the engineer that is another class dear to me:) he summons 2 minibots and one bigbot and well 
 do all kind of stuff with them.. I won't spoil anymore of the game: P THen there's the Evoker... well 
 u can guess what it does... and the summoner that also easy to guess.
  
  Okay I never knew how to end something that has to do with writing... so I'll just say cya: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega11
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  They did a "hell" of a job marketing this game and the game videos made this look like an awesome 
 rpg/fps. Unfortunately, the level design and story leave a lot to be desired. There are tons of 
 bugs, but I could live with those if the game play and story line were better. Basically, you just 
 run around a mess of quests in what looks like the same repetitive maps. This game looks like one 
 large demo level. Play the demo and you get an idea of what the entire game is like. Save your 
 money and get the Witcher for some rpg fun or Crysis/COD4 for a decent fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessien
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  Playing this game reminded me of the way that I enjoyed playing the diablo games. I LOVED those 
 games. What you will find in this game is 1sy person shooter with a lossely linked community. Even 
 in a guild I find myself playing alone and if I get asked to group the reason is just to make the 
 game harder so that another person can play alone and get more exp and level faster. The graphics 
 aren't great. The mob AI is basic to say the least. Now listen up. After all that... its super fun 
 to play. I have played it more than my other new games that look better. I don't know why. See 
 my other revised to match them up. There are bugs in the game and sure it needs polish but it reminds 
 me also of EQ in its first edition. Basic looking but glue you to your chair addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldavo82
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  With the same game play this futurist game action RPG beat them all in this category.
  
  The game-play is almost the same as Diablo I & II, the menus and the tabs and they way it shows 
 are almost the same.
  
  This game have good graphics and excellent audio, but it need at least a decent graphic card to 
 run it not mention ram.
  
  The best thing over this game is that you will never play the same area twice, since the areas 
 are randomized, this means that the game will change the area once you exit the game and star it 
 again. 
  
  This game do not beat Diablo at all, but is a good choice if you want a pretty good graphics and 
 new game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  The games that I had to play this year where Crysis, Air Bourne, Bioshock, Call of Duty 4, Gears 
 of War, Unreal Tournament 3 "which I still need to play", and Hellgate London. All the games that 
 I have played where some of the best games that I have evered played, and Hellgate meets all the 
 expectations.
  
  You get to choose between six classes, some use swords, some use guns, and some use magic. All 
 the classes are really cool, and it is fun to sluaghter demons with all their special abilities.
 
  
  The story behind Hellgate is that a bunch of Hellgates open up and all these demons come out. The 
 attack starts in London, and then moves around through out the entire world. In the future London 
 figures out a way to fight back and save there city.
  
  The combat works pretty well, thou it takes a little while to get use to. After you get the combat 
 down, you will have a blast running through streets killing armies and armies of monsters.
  
  The graphics look really good, but there are a few flaws that kind of keep it down.
  
  
 The sound is okay, there is some pretty good music, but some of the effects sound kind of funny.
 
  
  Hellgate London has three modes. An offline mode, and online mode where you see characters in towns 
 and you can form guilds, and an online mode that costs ten dollars a month and you get a few extras, 
 but the online dose not really offer a lot so for some people it may not be worth the money for 
 the few extras.
  
  If you want a game that you will play for a long time and it will keep you interested, then Hellgate 
 is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balog66676
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I have never written a review before. So please forgive me for the errors. What can I say about 
 hellgate London. First, don't kid yourself it is not Diablo. It's not even a Diablo clone it's 
 more like a restricted area clone which was a Diablo clone, so in other words hellgate is a shitty 
 clone of a shitty clone of Diablo. Secondly, and most importantly this game does not have the same 
 feeling as Diablo. I personally loved the story and occult background of Diablo. I became engrossed 
 in the lore of the game and the npc were interesting and had decent voice acting, the cut cense 
 were over the top badass. Hellgate on the other hand, has the worst voice acting I have ever heard, 
 the dialogue is horrible, and the story is pathetic. This game is probably one of the worst games 
 I have ever wasted money on, Do not buy this game unless you are the most hardcore masochist ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil16-psp
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London has had a hard time from a rushed launch to bad reviews, which is mostly undeserved. 
 Hellgate provides people with that random fun and hack/slash game play that made diablo so popular, 
 but the problem is that just isn't enough to satisfy modern gamers. Hellgate does provide a somewhat 
 varied environment but does get repetitive due to its random game engine, while provides re playability 
 can become tiresome after a while.
  The game play is its biggest strength with melee options to first person view combat... while not 
 very complex it sure is alot of fun.
  If you liked diablo 2 then you will like the core of this game the loot, the game play but if you 
 expect to much you will be disappointed and if you want a mmorpg stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooonastick111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  blal dont read this lal lal la lallalalalal lall la lal lal lal lal lal lal allal lall lal lall 
 alal lalal allal alal allalalalla lla lal lal lalal lla lal lall lal lal llal lal llal lal llal 
 lal lal llal lallal lalala lall ala lla llalal lal lal al lal lal lal lal lal al all la lal lla 
 lal lal lal lal lal lal lal lal lal al lalallalalalll lal la ll ala llal llalalal
  lalalalallal lall all lal lal lal la lal lla buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it good game lalal 
 la llal alal lla lal lal lal llal all lal lalal all all al 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valengar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Ok , the game is pretty good but needs time. Many features are underused or not implented correctly 
 is the best way I can put it. The equipment upgrade system is cool but broken. The random generator 
 of levels sometimes is a bit annoying, but if you like d2 this is a good game. It needs more patches. 
 The difficulty has some huge swings. At first it is easy then suddenly it gets hard. Classes and 
 weapons need a better balance, but they aren't completely off just some tweaking. If you want this 
 game I will recommend it but in about 2 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worg
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Your PC in Hellgate looks awesome, gameplay is fun and addicting with tons of loot to find. I don't 
 think it'll be the next great MMO but it will tide me over till the next one comes down the pipe, 
 I mean My main is a Marksman with a killer Minigun and it's just a blast to blow everything in 
 a room to complete and utter crap. There are some glitches in the game but they are being addressed 
 asap. The benefits of an ongoing MMO. Oh! there is single player mode if you wish, I found it handy 
 in the beginning to check out class skills but once I had a good understanding of the game I went 
 into Multiplayer mode and havn't looked back since there is virtually no difference in gameplay 
 and the MMO gets updated constantly . P. S. I'm so tired of WOW! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rokushoax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate, see, I had waited for the game and ate up all the pre-release hype, so when the game 
 actually came out, I had high hopes. Ah dang, this is gonna be one of those essay things, fine, 
 straight to the point.
  
  The game starts out with a tutorial to get you to grip the basics and yet you're left dangling 
 on some concepts like crafting and augment, so self-exploration is advised.
  
  Then you play through the first set of quests and think, "This is too easy.", worry not, the difficult 
 will pick up sometime later. On quests, this game has a LOT of quests, a lot lot. An NPC might 
 hand out on average between 3-6 quests throughout the game and theres quite a few of them standing 
 around so if you're a completionist, enjoy, though the quests do do a good job at getting you to 
 explore the various maps and what not.
  
  Then you'll notice the much-hyped randomization of practically everything thats not located in 
 a station, bit of a let down there, there's a slight lacking of map templates that they use so 
 expect to see the same environments with the layout of the crates scattered differently each time. 
 But to me, that's only a slight dent in the game, I didn't expect much here anyway, but some more 
 variety and/or eye catching locales wouldn't hurt
  
  Next up, while taking up quests, you'll hear a bit of the dialogue, which to say, is um... not 
 what you expect to hear from a post-apocalyptic game. The game tries a bit too hard at humour. 
 The written text also follows this trend. I found it irritating the first time I played the game 
 but some how got hooked in the next sitting.
  
  You'll then listen to the various characters and they'll fill you in on the game's story, which 
 is to say, a gate from hell (Hellgate) , opened in london (Hellgate: London, woopee) and demons 
 pour out and screw everyone to, well, hell. If you read the previews for the game then you pretty 
 much covered it. There is an additional sub-plot in the game but then the game suffers from horrid 
 storyline pacing, some of the chapters are too long or too short.
  
  On the gameplay itself, the item randomization is nice, and there's loads you can do to step up 
 your equipment even more it's nice for stat-freaks. The ranged combat is a little meh, and the 
 guns lack the umph you'd expect. Still the combat is engaging and there's always the "one more 
 chest/dungeon/item run" feeling so thats a plus.
  
  On graphics I can't really say as I don't have a killer system but on medium the game does the 
 job. Small tip, if you experience frequent lagging due to having a weaker system, reduce your graphics 
 settings, the game's more fun when it plays smooth.
  
  Oh yeah, I myself am not into the online thing Flagship's got going but you people can decide that 
 one yourselves.
  
  Alright, that was still a bit long so here's a summary for all you lazy people.
  
  + Item hunting!
 
  + Weird dialogue humour, if you're into that kinda thing
  + As Gamespot says, sucks you in.
  + Cool looking cyberknight dudes and monsters
  + Lots of 
 quests
  + Game is practically a time sink
  + Good for vegetarians! (Sorry, had to put that somewhere)
  
  - Weird dialogue humour, in you're 
 not into that kinda thing
  - Lack of music most of the time
  - Story pacing problems
  - Guns lack umph, seriously
  - Random levels not up to hype
  - Rocky start at the beginning 
 of the game
  
  All in all, Hellgate is more suited to the casual gamer than the hardcore. If you're looking for 
 mindless, it doesn't get anymore mindless than this, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunter9
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that will initially suck you in because of its graphics and some innovative ideas. 
 As the game progresses, the quests (both main and side) become boring and lame. Furthermore, the 
 game-play turns out to be repetitive with familiar surroundings and quest objectives. I must say 
 this is not what i expect from the game producers. My motivations to proceed on with the game is 
 to get more skills and better weapons. Even that can't disguise that fact that i am disappointed 
 with the storyline. 
  
  There's alot of hype before the game was launched but i was not impressed. It's fun but do not 
 expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remusgd13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  It's like Diablo in the future. Nice player classes with lots of items, armours, weapons, skills, 
 etc. Also it has nice graphics and it doesn't demand huge resources to be enjoyed. It is great 
 for those who liked Diablo. 
  One thing I like very much about the game : very fun to play. Many game developers and gamers in 
 our days seem to forget that games are made to be enjoyed, not kill your nerves .I don't think 
 this game can be enjoyed by gaming maniacs : no offense.
  Minus : some enemies look silly ; the firearms have infinite ammo ( a bit stupid) ; I heard that 
 multiplayer has some problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D0NZAUKER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London  lungi dall'essere perfetto, graficamente non  proprio lo stato dell'arte anche 
 se la versione DX10 si difende abbastanza bene, i modelli non sono molto dettagliati cos come 
 l'ambiente circostante.
  Quest'ultimo punto ha la sua ragione d'essere in una feature del gioco, gi presente nel capolavoro 
 Blizzard: la generazione casuale dei dungeon.
  Tranne alcune locazioni "base", utili per il proseguimento della storia, tutti i dungeon sono creati 
 in maniera random tramite "pezzi prefabbricati", rendendo sempre diversa l'esperienza di gioco.
 
  Di contro per si ha spesso la sensazione di "gi visto" proprio perch i set prefabbricati non 
 sono infiniti.
  Il gameplay si pu dividere in due scuole: hack'n slash e FPS, a seconda di che classe scegliete 
 all'inizio. Va detto che sar sempre possibile utilizzare armi con la visuale FPS (nel caso di 
 pistole ed altre amenit simili) , cos come  possibile utilizzare la terza persona nel caso in 
 cui si voglia affettare i nemici con spade & c.
  Il gioco  abbastanza ripetitivo: prendi quest, trova dungeon, fai piazza pulita, ammazza il bersaglio 
 della missione. Tutto qui... il classico dei classici, direi.
  Classico anche il ramo delle skill su cui spendere i punti che si ottengono al passaggio di livello.
 
  Oltre al gioco off line, HG: L presenta anche una corposa componente multiplayer: il gioco  il 
 solito ma sar possibile creare party con altri giocatori per affrontare quest pi ostiche.
  Va detto che per godere appieno del multiplayer si deve sottoscrivere un abbonamento mensile (in 
 "tagli" da 1, 3 o 6 mesi) che d accesso a nuove armi, skill e nemici pi forti.
  Non sar un capolavoro ma se preso in piccole dosi pu risultare molto divertente. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MythPro1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  I waited years for that breezy Halloween morning when Hellgate: London was able to be purchased. 
 Our wishes for Diablo in a 1st/3rd person perspective have finally been answered but I was a little 
 disappointed by the final product. 
  
  Hellgate: London pits you in a war against demons who invaded London through a hellgate and you 
 must defeat them. That's pretty much all there is to the story. You fight waves of demons until 
 you eventually get to the hellgate itself and destroy it.
  
  Being a huge fan of the Diablo series I came into the twisted world of Hellgate: London with several 
 expectations. I expected a 100% chaotic monster mash with quick battles, hundreds of baddies, and 
 mountains of goodies to collect. What I got was all the hording and item modification I could ever 
 want but none of the action. Combat is slow-paced and at times fairly dull; I found myself holding 
 down the mouse buttons through my entire playing experience, it really didn't matter. There also 
 seems to be shortage of monsters which only appear in groups of a dozen and most times even less. 
 While they do look great and come in a wide array of flavors, I wouldn't have minded facing massive 
 hordes of them either. 
  
  One of HG: L's big pluses though are the different character classes you can play. The Cabalist, 
 Templar, and Hunter classes are all very different from each other including the sub-classes for 
 all of them. The Cabalist is your typical caster class who can either cast damaging spells or summon 
 demons, the Templar is your tanking class, and then you have the Hunter class which is the class 
 specifically created for the FPS crowd. Here, the hunters can become a master of weapons and if 
 they choose the engineering route, a master of droids. All class types are equally rewarding and 
 enjoyable and all of them boast a pretty expansive skill set as well.
  
  So what makes Hellgate: London so alluring? The items of course! HG: L is about getting new gear, 
 upgrading it, and then finding more. Thankfully there is plenty of it, and plenty to do with it. 
 Players can mod their weapons to do various types of damage, modify their armor to provide additional 
 bonuses, upgrade it completely, or even craft their own items from scratch. Hellgate can be so 
 engrossing because every monster you kill has a chance of dropping something epic. One downside 
 I noticed though is that a mass majority of the gear that drops is completely useless to your character 
 and is either dismantled for spare parts or sold to a vendor. You will be hooked for hours looking 
 for new items to beef up your character and show it off.
  
  Because HG: L is chiefly about getting items and showing 'em off, this makes the singleplayer experience 
 rather pointless. Since the story also plays out the exact same anyway, you're better off playing 
 it online to begin with. Multiplayer will also receive new content courtesy of a subscription-based 
 system which Flagship has received a lot of flak for. Sadly at this point in time, paying the monthly 
 fee for Hellgate is not worth it as little to no new content has been added since its initial release. 
 Despite this, you can play Hellgate online for free whether you want the new content or not. At 
 least you still get the patches which are something Hellgate will need for some time as the game 
 has quite a few bugs in it. 
  
  Hellgate London looks spectacular, no question about it. You're in an even better position if your 
 computer can support DX10 graphics since Hellgate comes equipped with juicy effects like motion 
 blur and depth of field. As previously mentioned, the monsters and character models look great 
 and move smoothly. The environments themselves also look nice and Hellgate will have you fight 
 in the sewers, on the streets, and in a number of prominent locales based in London. After a while 
 though, the areas will start to have a "been there, done that" feeling attributed to them. You 
 fight in one sewer system or street, you've fought in all of them. The subway hubs, which are the 
 places where you can meet other players or get quests, will also start to blend together. 
  
  In the end, Hellgate: London is an enjoyable, although at times repetitive but an engrossing 
 game which will occupy you for many hours. Hellgate's many bugs will put a hindrance on the enjoyment 
 but they are quickly being remedied through frequent patching. If you're a fan of the Diablo series, 
 dungeon running, or of item hording then Hellgate: London is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  It's a one trick pony, but it's a guitly pleasure. I've been playing it on and off for since release.
 
  
  While I agree with it's middling reviews, it's worth the price if you like a light snack every 
 once in awhile.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised to find it runs well on my older gaming rig (AMD 3200, w/6600 GT card, 
 and a 1 gig ram)
  
  I would not subscribe right now as I just haven't seen the kind of content that would warrant a 
 monthly fee. I will continue to monitor and if there is a compelling feature added later, perhaps 
 I might be willing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deni87
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I really wasn't sure whether to get this game or not, I've been following it for a long time and 
 seeing a lot of mixed reviews it seems you'll either really like it, or completely and utterly 
 loathe it. I decided to gamble and buy the game and it turns out It's really enjoyable, infact 
 it's the most fun I've had in a video game in a long time. The combat feels really solid and satisfying, 
 especially with the blademaster class, swing your sword and enemies go flying! The best part is, 
 is that I haven't tried all character classes yet, only blademaster, summoner and marksman, still 
 much more to explore.
  
  Graphics are stunning, I've heard a few people say that they are terrible but I have to say they 
 look really nice, I play in DX10 but was curious to what DX9 would look like and it still looks 
 amazing. If you have a high end rig and can max out this game then you're in for a treat.
  
  I love the skill system in the game too, how you have to choose carefully when starting out 
 to get the most out of them, each skill has written descriptions a mile long and you can upgrade 
 the skills themselves when you gain levels (or choose new ones) . Armor and weapons are modable 
 too, there's just a lot of depth to all this and is something I really like.
  
  I've also hardly encountered any technical problems or bugs yet, this is something people seem 
 to be making a big deal out of but I've not noticed anything so far. There is however, some problems 
 with frame rate from time to time, but I'm sure it can be fixed with future patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Struds89
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  When i startet to hear about Hellgate: London a thougth it was a realy good idea, Diablo in the 
 future :D But then i got the game and started playing, I began with the marksman. The graphics 
 was good not anazing but good, the controls was easy to use and you had a good view in the game. 
 But then the story began and it was a bit lame and meningless, in some way I didn't care the slitest 
 bit as you are supose to if the game shall be more than just action. Then the action started and 
 it was to easy and the enemies seemed stupid as hell, the shooting wasn't satisfying and the killing 
 wasn't either. So i changed character to the summoner and it got a bit better but not much. There 
 are some cool ideas in the game but all-around the game isn't that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Basicly it's a mix of FPS and FPS in 3rd person with 
  
  RPG elements. You gain experience in battles and you 
  
  pass level, You gains points that 
 you can distribute 
  
  in a tree of abilities.
  The campaign is long with almost 115 sceneries. you 
  
  can dismantle objects to make unique 
 pieces to 
  
  upgrate your armor and weapon. I did't like the 
  
  inventory system, it's too small to all things that 
  
  you can carry. The missions are not 
 that good, it's 
  
  just killing lot of demons.
  The audio is satisfatory. The multiplayer is in my 
  
  opinion better the singleplayer campaign 
 because you 
  
  can play it on internet in cooperative mode. It's not like Diablo unfortunaly, but it's fun in 
 some aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerows
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  I wanted to love this game. I bought into the hype, was in the beta, and heard "the release is 
 weeks ahead of the beta"! It wasn't. The game is sloppy, buggy and a disaster.
  In multi-player, you can't see party members (when you can find them due to the woefully inferior 
 chat interface) , sometimes you can't even party portal to them (which is the only way to actually 
 find each other and enter an instance with them due to the fact that everyone is spread out into 
 different instances) and when you do finally get together with them, good luck over coming gameplay 
 bugs, gameplay mechanic failures and trying to continue playing with each other without someone 
 crashing due to a memory leak.
  
  Single player hasn't been patched past .1, though multiplayer is on patch .5. The fact that the 
 patches aren't even up to 1.0 yet should tell you how completely unfinished this game is. Skills 
 are bugged, items are bugged, monsters are bugged - I'll try to give examples for this.
  
  Bugged Items: If you can manage to endure the monotony of nightmare mode, which is currently an 
 extended grind from levels 35 to the cap at 50 due to imbalance and the rush to ship, you will 
 find items requiring you to be level 51 (one player found an item that required level 67 and took 
 a screenshot) . You can only get to level 50!! Even if the item is below 50, the stat feed system 
 will likely leave you running around half naked in an attempt to wear it - wear something good, 
 and you will have to ditch your gloves, your shoulder pieces or if you are really unlucky, your 
 pants.
  
  Bugged Skills: Where to start. Since no one really knows how much damage you are ever doing with 
 a weapon in conjunction with your stats and any mods it might contain (since it is never displayed 
 *anywhere* because the developers said it is "too complicated" - how is it calculated in the game 
 then if it is "too complicated" - I think the answer is "badly") , you also never know if skills 
 are working as intended either. Occasionally you will start losing power for no reason, only to 
 find out that you are inadvertantly stuck using a skill but are not aware of it because your animation 
 doesn't display it. I'm not kidding folks - it is that bad. That is one example, I could give many 
 others of hunters shooting beasts at point blank range and doing no damage, bugged sniper pistols 
 (devs acknowledge this is a known issue) , and a plethora of things that just *do* *not* *work*.
 
  
  Monsters are bugged: Floating in the air after death, ravagers leaping at you, then suddenly reappearing 
 back where they started, floating orbs suddenly appearing en masse in the middle of the beginning 
 station - it's all here, and I haven't even discussed what happens past level 5. 
  
  As a bonus, if you enjoy all of this "content", you can subscribe and hopefully at a later date 
 get content that is already done and possibly get a complete game. You will likely have to subscribe 
 for a while, though; the scant content in the box is so bugged they will need to fix it first.
 
  
  Play something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nezriq
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how could some people have the audacity to give the game rating as low as 2.0. 
 It doesn't deserve that kind of understatement. Come on, it's not Torrente man!!! Hellgate London 
 is definitely a good and quality game. The animation is beautifully designed and although the gameplay 
 is kind of repetitive, it is still exciting and fun to play with. The weapon and armor design are 
 magnificently done and its damn good that you are able to tinker with your gear as long and as 
 far as you want. 
  
  The monsters are at a vast selection and variety and looked very pretty. The NPCs sucks though, 
 they should put voice acting to them to polish and further verify their existence. The level designs 
 are highly detailed and a little scary (can't compare to FEAR) .
  
  The worst aspect of the game to me is the story line. Its not clear at all. All I know is there 
 are 5 truths and each of them has a riddle to present to you with another stupefying clues. Diablo's 
 storyline was magnificently put together and easy to follow-up. 
  
  Overall, Hellgate London is a very good and entertaining game. I like it and I still play it every 
 single day when I come back from work. I prefer to use the Blademasters coz they are very similar 
 to the Barbarians in Diablo 2. Don't listen to reviews of people that hated the game. The game 
 is definitely worthwhile and you should purchase it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I looked forward to HellGate: London for a while. I am not a fan of either online games or "squad-based" 
 shooters, so when a simple FPS with good graphics comes from a solid developer, I get excited.
 
  
  HellGate: London is a solid outing. A few neat ideas and some great graphics in my Quad-Core DX10 
 system. The fighting is tough, but have a great chance at survival. All-in-all, quite enjoyable.
 
  
  The only real drawback is the level design. There seem to only be about4 models that are used to 
 create about 30 game areas. So, you begin to get a little bored with the surroundings. The quests 
 that you undertake can lso be a little too "run and get" for my tastes.
  
  However, the repetiviteness is mostly outweighed by nice graphics and some delicious zombie killing.
 
  
  IN SHORT: Wait until the price drops a bit, then snatch it up at $29.99 in January. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttface1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  I don't know what people are talking about... every chance I've gotten I've been playing this game 
 for the last three days and I've only seen a few bugs that will definantly get fixed without a 
 doubt. The graphics are pretty decent, kind of inbetween nextgen and last but it still looks great. 
 The gameplay is awesome, imagine D2 but more. :D 
  Eventually I had to turn my settings down from max to somewhat medium as I got further in the game 
 and got to mowing down mobs of demons with my buddy online. :D 
  The worst about this game is that to really enjoy pvp you have to pay to play, and to get 100% 
 of the game you have to pay to play. 
  A few bugs I've been able to handle, one of them making your party member invisible.. O. o... I know 
 weird. 
  Almost everything in this game reminds me of D2 but it seems different in alot of ways. It doesn't 
 really put you into the story to much, which is somewhat of a let down. Like... I guess you're 
 suppose to be ending the whole demon devours world thing but the game doesn't really make it feel 
 that way at times. 
  Recrommended, fun game, just with a few issues. 
  It really is somewhat hard to describe, you'll have to try it to really understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benzdoc
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I am tired of paying for beta versions of games in a retail box. This game was and is still not 
 ready for release (even after the patch) . Excessive amounts of graphical glitches, ways to be stuck 
 without being able to move. This is a very poor game. Who did the Beta testing? Nothing is more 
 frustrating that to get close to the end of a level than being stuck and not be able to move and 
 have to repeat the level. In addition, the graphical elements of the game are very uninspired and 
 overused. Is this the same map over and over? Yes it is. You will get to see the 20 or 30 map elements 
 more than you would like. This is unacceptable in a game that takes over six GB's of space. If 
 you are looking for the next Diablo, keep looking this will only make you angry. Spend your money 
 on something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgarbork
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Any software that forces me to manually restart my computer deserves my complete disdain. This 
 flawed shooter was obviously not ready for release. Invisible NPCs, constant frame freezes, looping 
 sound track stutters and total system lock ups due to poor memory management indicate a less-than-professional 
 approach to programming, let alone customer respect. 
  
  My 3.0 GHertz, dual-processor machine with twin GeoForce graphics cards and 2 Gig memory should 
 be more than enough to run this software, and on rare occasions it gives me up to 30 minutes of 
 continuous play time. Then I step into a gate, or transit tunnel, or use the personal relocation 
 device to dump inventory or prepare to leave the game and I find myself on an unresponsive desktop 
 screen or my system is totally frozen. 
  
  Yes, I've followed the FAQ advice to turn off services and tasks and anti-virus and etc. This in 
 itself is an insult... why should I pay a premium price for a computer to perform multiple functions 
 then have to turn them off for a $50 toy? A toy I cannot return?
  
  Yes, I've followed other FAQ advice on sound card tweaks and other inane diversions offered by 
 the randomly available tech support sections of the company web site.
  
  Yes, I've downloaded each and every patch/update both for single player and multi-player modes.
 
  
  No, I will not subscribe to the on-line experience until the game is fixed. If World of Warcraft 
 had been this buggy at launch, I seriously doubt it would have over nine million subscribers over 
 the last three years. When I first bought the game and tried to subscibe, their subscription site 
 was unavailable for days.
  
  I've owned, programmed and used computers since the Commodore 64. This software, while full of 
 potential, is one of the worst releases I've had the misfortune to spend money on.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: With the fuilly functional Medieval II Kingdoms, Supreme Commander, World in Conflict 
 and Crysis available, don't waste your money on this crippled effort.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLRX4
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is vey similar to the classic game Diablo. I like this game alot. I does have some bugs, 
 which flagship has fixed alot of the problems. They have their own forum to which your questions 
 will be answered. If this game had no bugs it would have received a 10. This is a game that is 
 very addictive and it keeps you coming back for more. The Items in the game are very diverse. You 
 always look to better your Items. Trading is a big part of the game as well. Multiplayer is the 
 most fun part of this game, either co-op or p vs p it has it all. In a short while all of the bugs 
 will be gone and this will be one of the best games out there. Give it a try!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klyern
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate London is just a pretty adertising mask on top of a horrible game, first of all the requirements.
 
  
  I have a core duo with 2ghz and 1gb of ram, wich is something inbetween the minimum required specs 
 and what might be recommended, well my brother has the minimals, his game charges horribly and 
 freezes even when he slides the mouse fast IN TOWN, even when he haves everything on minimal, well 
 maybe thats expected from new games now but has for me, the game freezed every 5 seconds for around 
 10 seconds whenever i was fighting more than 5 monsters, HOW IS THAT FUNNY?
  
  So my first point made, dont get this unless you are loaded and have a computer with very high 
 specs.
  
  Second, the graphics, sure the shadows are ok, and some character movements look vivid enought 
 but thats has far has i can possibly go at flattering HGL when its about graphics, but hell, since 
 the beggining of time most noobs say that something has awesome unbelieveable graphics when the 
 requirements are high, well even if the requirements are high if the designers make a poor work 
 like they did here graphics wise, then the graphics will be EVERYTHING BUT UNBELIEVEABLE. -_- seriously, 
 even the introduction video, its cool but its by far not one of the gratest out there.
  
  Gameplay wise. (Third point)
  
  Interesting system regarding the potions and classes, but the 
 skills and stats, and the balance of strength in the monsters kinda leaves a lot to wish for. There 
 is no spirit to the gameplay, it makes you feel like you just were playing a way cheaper Diablo 
 2 or Titan Quest clone. The dificulty too leaves something else to wish for.
  
  Even the quests suck, and there's no debating over this if you'd like to keep your pride has a 
 player lol. (debating that HGL quests suck)
  
  In conclusion if you want to play this get urself Titan Quest, wich is very similar looking and 
 better, both graphically and gameplay wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerfy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought the game i wondered if i had made the right decision, I love rpg, I love playing 
 MMOs but I don't like spending time looking for group, socializing etc. I do that in real life. 
 I just want to play the game by myself, be able to kill everything, get cool gear and be able to 
 show it off and occasionally play with other people. Hellgate London provides me with just that 
 right mix of gameplay I crave. 
  Initially the game felt buggy and graphics didn't feel smooth, I installed the latest nvdia drivers 
 and vista hotfixes and it began to show some promise. I ran a mid range system (AMD x2 6000+, 8600GT 
 256MB, 2Gb RAM 800MHz) and after a little tweaking I managed to improve performance by setting 
 the graphics to "High" instead of "Very high". 
  The environment and effects looked great and very realistic as seen in screen shots. It looks as 
 good in DirectX9 compared to DX10. For those who can only run DX9 you won't be missing out on much.
 
  In-game music is fantastic as well, it has a very grand feeling to it. You probably won't notice 
 it much when playing but when you do it really suits the situation. 
  Gameplay is very similar to Diablo when playing melee class and Tabula Rasa when playing ranged 
 classes. It's click and slash *repeat or point and shoot and let the AI decide if you hit. For 
 range play it's in FPS mode but not like the traditional fps play.
  I love collecting loot, upgrading my armour and weapons while killing everything along the way. 
 That's exactly what I like about this game. 
  What I don't like is that you have to spend quite awhile and tweak around with the graphics settings 
 to see what works with your machine and what doesn't. And the way you are thrown into battle at 
 the start the story doesn't really tell you how you got there and what you're suppose to be doing. 
 
  To cut to the chase:
  Pros:
  Nice graphics, sound/music. Highly addictive. Interesting game play. Easy to pick up. 
  Cons:
 
  Buggy, glitches in graphics, lack of plot. 
  
  Online play is highly recommended while single player should suffice players with tight wallets. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Wow, I had huge expectations for this game but it fell short in almost every way.
  
  The gameplay is well, repetitive at best. All you do is run around each map and find a certain 
 creature it seems and kill it to get an item from it or just to kill it.
  
  The weapons and armor part of it are interesting. Allthough, I have a level 17 character with a 
 level 3 epic item that I can't seem to find a suitable replacement for which I find odd. 
  
  You can find weapons and armor and have them upgraded through various machines which is very 
 cool so you can keep that great piece of armor or wicked sword and just keep upgrading it and mod 
 these items as well. 
  
  The graphics are good. I'll just leave that as it is.
  
  Now the load times, are frickin' BRUTAL. I mean it takes forever to just get to the character select 
 screen and then once you select/create a new character it takes another lifetime to log in and 
 appear in a station. Then for levels to load it's the same thing!
  
  As for the single player game (this is the kicker) it's competely USELESS! I mean, you don't get 
 the same weapons and armor upgrades that you do with the multiplayer updates, so why bother playing 
 single player? You can't bring over your character either so why waste the time playing it? I've 
 yet to install the single player campaign at all.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acejenderd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Let's start by saying that I got bored with Diablo 2, so if you enjoyed it then you might disagree 
 with this review.
  
  I'm an RPG fan and I hoped Hellgate: London had better ideas in it. I like its theme, it's original, 
 everything in it looks good (even though the animations are too "puppety") but there's no real 
 story in it, interacting with NPCs is tedious and plain, quests are all about killing X monster 
 or collecting X items.
  
  So what's left? A lot of hack'n'slash in just a bunch of maps looking all the exact same.
  Yet 
 I ended up playing it for hours and hours in a trance-like state, waiting for something to happen. 
 Yes, you DO play the game for a long time even if you're bored, because something in it keeps you 
 wanting for more. Probably it's just the hope for something better. But I had enough of it after 
 exiting the game one day and realizing I didn't have fun at all and I just wasted precious time.
 
  
  Like I said, it's a pity because many ideas in it are excellent and the opening cinematics, despite 
 the stereotypes, was successful in portraying what the game could have been with a proper direction 
 and story.
  
  Hellgate: London is a big disappointment, and since this review comes from one loving RPGs and disliking 
 Diablo you will know whether the game suits your taste or not.
  And keep in mind I haven't talked about the outrageous concept of playing in servers only (no LAN) 
 and even paying for extra content that doesn't exist yet.
  If you like action and playing with people just go play Guild Wars, at least you only pay for the 
 game once and there's more variety in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackalv666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate London has ridden its hype all the way onto consumers' desktops, and subsequently revealed 
 why they call it "Hype." The game looks great on paper and in all of its screenshots and trailers, 
 but what you will actually receive on your desktop, should you choose to buy the product, is a 
 hollow experience that is best left as money saved.
  I downloaded Hellgate off of EA's EA Store, which itself is an inferior attempt to cut in on Valve's 
 own digital distribution system: Steam. However, that is a different story altogether. I was extremely 
 excited when I fired the game up. It seemed to be the perfect promise: A Diablo-derived experience, 
 only in 3D! And developed by the creators of that masterpiece. For the first few hours of playtime, 
 this promise seemed true. It was great to run around a ruined city, a never-before-seen setting 
 for a Diablo-type game (Correct me if I'm wrong) . It was also fantastic to be able to blast away 
 hordes of zombies and demons with increasingly powerful firearms, or just go in hack-and-slash 
 and mow the enemies down with swords. This is where the fun stops.
  After a few hours, that creeping feeling sinks into your gut. That feeling of "Haven't I been here 
 before? Haven't I killed these demons? Didn't I pick up that gun already?" That's when you realize. 
 You have tapped the extent of the offered content in the first few hours. Sure, you pick up more 
 powerful weapons, but wait. Isn't that new gun just a different shade of gunmetal? Yep. Didn't 
 I already slay this demon? Yep. Isn't this the exact same sewer I was in LAST TIME?!? Yes. Yes 
 it is. 
  The developers of Hellgate used their Randomization engine as a large marketing ploy. This engine 
 does not enhance the play experience. There just isn't enough content to be randomized. The same 
 old tilesets are used over and over, ad infinitum, and the only thing random is the direction of 
 this hallway, or the fact that those rooms are connected by a maintenance hallway and not a subway 
 tunnel this time. 
  This leads me to my main point for the review. If the developers saved all this time designing 
 levels by randomizing content, then what WERE they working on? There is no saved time to show in 
 the final products, just a lackluster and hollow game. The quests all seem forced and read as though 
 they are poor translations. The main storyline never gets exciting. I often found myself going 
 "What? I'm in Act 2 now? But why? What did I do?" The setting never changes. The enemies never 
 change. The items never change. The game is just a grind.
  If you really want a Diablo-esque experience, just pick up Titan Quest and its expansion, or download 
 it off of Steam. Titan Quest is an extremely faithful Diablo knockoff that does not feel cheap. 
 The game is packed with content. There are multiple parts of the world able to be explored, tons 
 of different weapons, highly varied enemies, compelling quests, attractive, vibrant graphics (I 
 actually believe they are better than hellgate's. There are no DX10 effects, but the environments 
 are vivid, models are well-designed and ability effects are beautiful.) and no subscription service 
 to access content that should have been in the regular game.
  Shame on you, Hellgate. Shame.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalAzz666
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Several years to months ago Hellgate: London was going to be great, it was going to be Diablo 3 
 with guns. What more could you ask for? Well, it seems there was still a lot left to ask.
  
  Playing Hellgate: London was a disappointment to me. I am shamed to say that I was caught up 
 in the hype, and when I actually played the game that hype blew up in my face like an defective 
 M80 in the hands of a teenager. For the record, Hellgate: London isn't a bad game, it's just not 
 what the developer and publisher promised us. In other words, a let down.
  
  The graphics are OKish, but nothing special. Surroundings look dull and repetative, weapons fake, 
 light effect cheap, and NPC's retarded and made of plastic. The enemies look pretty good though, 
 but that's not enough to make up for the rest. Sound is good, but the NPCs sound strange and off 
 putting. Due to the lack of decent graphics and sound the game is pretty much void of atmosphere, 
 which is a real shame since that's what a game like this needs most.
  
  Gameplay is fun and addictive. Controls are standard WASD in combination with the mouse, and they 
 react pretty well. The action is often frantic yet fun, but it can get pretty hectic (not in a 
 good way) inside the sewers/underground stations. Playing this game actually feels kind like Diablo 
 3D, but after 20+ hours it can get very repetitive since all you seem to do is kill thousands of 
 demons and collecting loot. Still, this loot makes the game somewhat addictive, if in a much lesser 
 extend than with Diablo 2. You just find so much junk, and many items can't even be used by your 
 characters. This is really disappointing if you finally find some unique items that you can't use! 
 The game does has some nice innovations like being able to convert loot into basic parts. Those 
 basic parts can be used to craft all kinds of usefull items.
  
  Hellgate: London is a game that is good, but not as good as the hype made us believe. The game 
 misses that little extra OOOMPH, probably due to a rushed release date. This also explains the 
 many bugs, even though none of them made the game really unplayable. But most serious of all, the 
 game doesn't have a good story. There is the main "save the world from hell" storyline, but that 
 never EVER lifts off in the game. And an RPG like this without a decent story is just a FPS!
  
  Next time Flagship Studios should do a little more developing instead of showing pretty pictures.
 
  
  7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kintaro_Oe_25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is mindless fun, and the differences in classes and online co-op keeps the game fresh 
 for awhile. 
  
  The graphics and sound are OK they aren't anything special but they aren't unacceptable either. 
 
  
  There isn't much of a story as far as I can tell, the opening movie had more story than the rest 
 of the game combined, and the quest text was pathetic.
  
  This game is very repetitive, I have a high tolerance for that as long as what I am repeating is 
 fun, but after awhile the game becomes a chore. The enemies may look cool, but are all the same 
 throughout the entire game, just change their names and size/color, and sometimes even make them 
 into bosses.
  
  There are some areas of the game where they tried to change it up, like you control a small group 
 of men and lead them to safety. But they are executed poorly and aren't really fun at all.
  
  The bugs are unforgivable, You get stuck, your memory gets exhausted (this one was fixed) , sometimes 
 you can see your party, sometimes you can't. Sometimes you get credit for killing quest MOBs sometimes 
 you don't. It is VERY annoying and this game was rushed to the shelves.
  
  Wait a few months before picking this up, its fun for your moneys worth despite some big flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentientGames
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for years now, so I'm happy to finally give it a short review. 
 I'll just cut to the chase and offer from pro's and con's.
  
  The Good
  - Great graphics make it nice to look at.
  - All six classes are worth playing and feel different.
 
  - Sweet, stylistic setting is interesting and immersive.
  - A constant flow of new gear keeps you interesting in continuing on.
  - Action-packed gameplay 
 blurs the line between adventure and RPG.
  - Highly addictive multiplayer is great for a group of friends.
  - The ability to instantly teleport 
 to party-members makes it easy to group.
  - Random humor can be amusing.
  - Collector's Edition makes for a nice display.
  
  The Bad
  - Tons of bugs make the game 
 difficult to play at times.
  - "Feed" system means you don't always get to equip new gear right away.
  - Story is somewhat 
 shallow and not very well delivered.
  - Not much variety to locations; though the random design is nice.
  
  Overall, Hellgate: London 
 is a great game with a lot to offer. Just don't come expecting it to be bug free or have any deep 
 plots. Hopefully patches and updates with fix all the current issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImperiusGladio
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Games good, like the story, almost like the comic, but very sad that the bugs here just keeps making 
 it look dumb and annoying. There was one map that has no exit, only way out is the same gate i 
 came in from! Maxim is standing on Arphaum in the temple base and when you die from getting run 
 over by the train, u get stuck, even after u rez.... So my hunter cant move to kill the BloodMoon, 
 then I restarted the game, I cant go furthur, I can access the Exodus, so my char is just stuck 
 in the middle of all that, can flagship fix it properly with a patch or somethin, im eager to finish 
 the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLMENBR
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  HGL is good but need much more to be a true "diablo" copy and better, finished it two times, i 
 loved lots of things here, like the addicting achievements and the "item hunt", but it fail in 
 lots of things, history in this game is almost gone, cinematics? what cinematics? i notice only 
 the intro and the end, the rest is a book talking, but the most annoying this are the bugs and 
 those crashs it just kill the game for me, also the chat and channel like stations is a anti-community 
 thing and hellgate isn't a game to solo in multiplayer there is no fun in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade1978x
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  The game was a bit of a disappointment after the incredible CG trailers I'd watched for it. The 
 game-play is typical of a 3rd person action/adventure, the graphics are fairly impressive, as well 
 as sound and presentation. But there isn't much weight to anything. Your character hops around 
 like he's on the moon, the weapons don't have much kick and the action get repetitive within an 
 hour.
  
  It's very much indicative of an MMO. I'm not a fan of MMOs so I'm a bit biased, but any sheeple 
 that follows every 'brand spankin' new MMO on the block' should find something playable and fun 
 here. Not a game I'd pay for, though. Just not enough zazz to sell me on it. The zazz level isn't 
 high enough and the game devs definitely needed to up the zazz quotient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkanis_Vayll
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  After spending many hours with HG: L and vacillating a number of times in my opinion of the game, 
 I'm convinced that there is simply more wrong with this game than there is right in its current 
 state. HG: L suffers from some traditional flaws, as well as some new ones.
  
  Graphically, Hellgate is hit-and-miss. There are some wonderful dynamic lighting effects, especially 
 in locales such as the sewers, where light can glint off of pooled water or filter through large 
 and well-rendered fog banks to create a wonderfully atmospheric environment. On the other end of 
 the spectrum are the drab and repetitive "ruined city" sections, which recycle the same textures 
 and objects ad infinitum. Unfortunately, even the more interesting and well-done areas become boring 
 after you've seen them for the umpteenth time.
  
  Paradoxically, one of Hellgate's most impressive accomplishments is also one of the things that 
 finally drove my opinion firmly into the negative, and that's the spell effects. Spell effects 
 are big and bold, and can overwhelm your screen to the point that you can't see the action. Your 
 personal shield will flash whenever it takes damage, pasting the screen repeatedly with glowing 
 runes that can easily interfere with vision. The effects are all impressive, but they're also excessive 
 and can interfere with vision, resulting in moments of wild thrashing about, hoping to kill whatever 
 is damaging you, unsure where it's coming from.
  
  Weapons are likewise overdone. There are a huge variety of different weapon types, but you may 
 well find yourself desperately wishing that something simple but effective would fall into your 
 hands. Weapons with splash damage, scatter damage, rebounding projectiles all of these sound like 
 solid concepts, until you try to use them, and find that your aim and ability to choose specific 
 targets out of the mass of enemies are both compromised. It's a rare joy to find a ranged weapon 
 that works simply and effectively.
  
  Class skill trees are completely derivative of games that have come before, and not only D2. Entire 
 tiers of the Marksman and Summoner trees are taken directly from the Hunter and Warlock classes 
 in WoW, right down to the prerequisites and skill progression.
  
  Variety of enemies is unfortunately nowhere near the equal of variety of items. Within the first 
 five hours of the game, it's likely that you'll have seen every enemy skin there is to see. From 
 then on, it will simply be derivations with different colors and names.
  
  Core gameplay is hampered by many of the above issues, but manages to be fun and mildly addictive 
 because of the vast array of items and upgrades, and the fast pace of combat. Unfortunately, even 
 when you're having a good time blasting through demons, it's hard to shake the nagging feeling 
 that your time might be better spent in any number of other online games that offer a greater sense 
 of control and accomplishment/
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve9229
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Fun but super buggy. Could be a really good game in 6 months if they fix the issues and improve 
 some game play aspects. Don't pay more than 40.00 for it. Also, 10.00 a month is a rip off for 
 what you get. You don't have to pay to play online but 10.00 gets you some extra stuff that (at 
 the moment) is definitely not worth it. Their website leaves a lot to be desired as well. I do 
 enjoy playing the game though and there are nearly endless character and weapon customization options. 
 
  
  I need 100 words just to submit a review on this site. Who came up with that stupid idea? Now I 
 have to type a bunch of garbage just so I can submit a review of a game to help people decide if 
 they want to buy it or not. Happy, happy, joy, joy. Yipppee, skip to my lou. blah blah blah. Have 
 a great day everyone!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin1985_basic
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London... Diablo2...
  There are definitely a lot of similarity between these two. Similar class, similar way of dividing 
 storyline into different act, how they diffentiate different lvl of drops with colors, similar 
 way of moving around (with a portal) , etc... These two games are definitely related, but there 
 are as many differences too.
  
  First of all: LACK OF CINEMATICS -4
  In Diablo2, cinematics related to the storyline are shown between every act. In Hellgate: London, 
 NO. The most they show will be a 3D book with some dialogue. Nothing will really interest you to 
 keep moving on.
  
  Secondly: LACK OF STORYLINE; LACK OF MAPS; LACK OF SKILLS -5
  You are basically hacking your way though map that look really similar to the previous one you 
 have been through. No unique boss like the 3 demonic brothers in Diablo2. Monsters tend to be irritating 
 at times. They will run away as you approaches, jump around the map like an idiot, spawn out of 
 the blues, etc... Skills are limited, will not interest you in anyway, they also don't come with 
 cool animations.
  
  Finally: NPC quote +1
  The only thing I suppose is good about this game is some of the NPC dialogue. That's all! ._- Overall, 
 not something you should touch. And for goodness sake, D2 and HG is like heaven and earth.. CORRECTION: 
 heaven and hell! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j89808
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is ok, and im not really sure how they went from such a great idea to such a lousy game. 
 DOnt get me wrong, I enjoy playing it, but it is not what i expected from this game.
  
  I mostly expected a great graphics, easy to play game. You have to have all the graphics cranked 
 up to max to get graphics just short of WOW. This game is similar to WOW, and very often you will 
 find yourself alone in single-player darting through streets filled with the same old demons.
 
  
  This game could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePower69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Well Hell Gate London starts out as a very addictive game. With a focus like an fps game you really 
 do have alot of fun shooting/hacking demons and zombies alike to bits, However this does become 
 repetitive. The good thing about HGL is the solo friendly aspect and the randomly generated entities. 
 You can run the same map 10 times and it will come out different than the last. Mobs drop items 
 from a large pool so unlike alot of current rpg's you dont know what to expect to drop when you 
 kill things. This is a fantastic feature that id like to see more games implement. The bad side 
 !!!!!!!, The game becomes very repetitive. After about a day playing i found myself finishing act 
 2. I didn't realize i was in act 2 because every thing looked the same in every area. They recycled 
 alot of the enemy and map models over and over and it really takes away from the game. In diablo 
 2 i remember act one was a grassy area , act 2 was a desert with new monsters and quest types. 
 Hgl however doesn't really have much variety in terms of scenery and monsters. As well as this 
 the games story line is very wierd and hard to follow at times. It is a pretty weak story and most 
 the quest givers speak utter nonsense. And finally they put a subscription system in. You can still 
 play without subscribing but if you want to get new content you must. Its a big let down imo since 
 there hasn't been much in lou of content upgrades and its not a game you would play for countless 
 hours. So this is an issue to consider when looking at this game and its direct cost.
  
  But all in all it is an enjoyable game. You wont spend countless hours playing it , and you have 
 to pay to play if you want new content. But in the end it offers a good time waster if you have 
 the money to waste , untill some better games come out..
  
  In conclusion its not diablo 3 but its a fun game worth playing for those with alot of money to 
 blow and time to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  +Loads of variety in weapons and monsters. Loads of easter eggs for fans of games including Diablo 
 and Super Mario. Loads of fun.
  +Terrific DX10 support.
  -A lot of bugs that include game crashes, lag, or system hangs.
  -Tilesets get repetitive after 
 a while.
  
  Fans of Diablo, rejoice! For this is the game that we've been waiting for. Hellgate: London is 
 brought to you straight from the makers of Blizzard's Diablo. Diablo was pretty much their game 
 before World of Warcraft. If you were to pop in your Diablo II disc, you'll still find thousands 
 to game with. The story isn't where it's about. It's the loot. Most role-playing games are so involved 
 in the story that you really don't get to enjoy the action. It's basically like opening a fantasy 
 novel and reading it, only with colorful pictures. Diablo is really just based on action, destruction, 
 and treasures. With these features alone, Diablo is a near-perfect series, so it's no surprise 
 that Hellgate: London is really fun.
  
  Hellgate is based on a post-apocalyptic London. The rest of the world has already been taken over 
 by demons from Hell, but London is the break away part of the story. You're mission in the game 
 is solely to just save London. The rest of the world can wait. The game is broken down into 5 different 
 acts, each getting harder and containing more quest. The environments are different per act, although, 
 one of the problems with the game is lack of difference. For instance, in the first act, you may 
 be fighting off a bunch of zombies in a gone-to-hell (excuse the pun) subway, but in act two, you'll 
 be in the same subway. The difference is very small too. In the second subway, you may just notice 
 harder bosses, a small change up in how it looks, and maybe an extra room. I guess so many years 
 of playing dungeon crawlers, you just want to get out of the dungeons. While the dungeon areas 
 are small, the out doors are (although the same as well) are just much more exciting looking. During 
 some of the levels, you get a chance to enter a hellgate, which leads you into an arena with several 
 monsters, not excluding bosses. At the center of the arena is either a chest full of (usually) 
 junky treasures, a quest objective, or a portal into the abyss.
  
  The different characters classes are really impressive. You have basically a variety of three different 
 types of characters, and six overall classes. First you have the Templars. They're the guys, according 
 to the story, who knew about the events of the hellgates and demon take overs forever, but were 
 called crazy by the locals. They're going to be the good, old school swords and shields characters. 
 One character is more shield and sword based, while the other is focused on doing maximum damage, 
 even as to wielding two swords. Next, you have your Cabalist, which are more of the magic classes. 
 You have your basic spell casting characters, or your summoning characters which can summon a horde 
 of beast to fight with. Lastly, you'll have your more modern grunt men, which are going to be the 
 guys walking around with guns. The unique thing about the gun-class characters is that they can 
 be viewed using a more first person perspective. The difference between the two choices here is 
 one is just a gun totting class, while the other (engineer) is more of a robot building version 
 of the summoner.
  
  The rarity of the game is what makes the experience of Hellgate extremely fun. Sure, the tilesets 
 may need some changing from time to time, but there's definitely a good amount of variety in the 
 loot that drops, as well as the beasts that drop them. When fighting a group of zombies, you may 
 encounter a Rare zombie (which will be the only one with lettering above it's head) or an Epic 
 zombie. Killing these zombies will ultimately give you more experience, and toughen the game up 
 for some. The drops are usually pretty good, but it's overall about the challenge at this point. 
 Let's examine the variety in weapons you get. If you pick up a common (green) helmet, you'll examine 
 it and it will reveal it's true stats to you. Usually, you can pick up the same helmet over and 
 over, examine it, and each time it will be different. But that's not all. You'll also be able to 
 upgrade that helmet, using broken pieces of other equipment you've picked up (and broken down to 
 it's lowest form) . Still not impressed? Most items also can be socketed, giving you a base stat, 
 base specials, and then allowing you to place in your own specials. Still not impressed? Well, 
 you don't know what to do with all that money just sitting in your bank? How about turning that 
 common into a legendary item (orange) ? That's pretty cool. The same happens for the types of monsters 
 you fight. Some of the monsters you encounter will have different types of resistance and specials 
 they can use against you. It keeps the game changing each time you enter an area. Another neat 
 aspect on the rarity portion of this game is the mini-game you play without knowing it. In your 
 bottom right corner, there's always three icons displaying different icons (teeth, pentagons, fire, 
 etc..) , each displaying a set number. If you happen to figure out how to read the icons, finishing 
 a mini game will reward you with hefty treasures for completing them, giving the game a little 
 more bang.
  
  One of the best aspects of the game, aside from really entertaining achievements, is the easter 
 eggs. I actually think it's worth noting the easter eggs in a separate paragraph for the purpose 
 of fully examining these wonders. During battles, you'll notice pipes or passage ways through the 
 ground. If you enter these, it loads a new area, some that are just full of coins, then you exit 
 out of another pipe. Sound familiar? This is a homage the designers put in to Super Mario's treasure 
 pipes. Sometimes you'll encounter rare monsters to fight that end up dropping good coinage and 
 gear. Some of the other easter eggs include just talking to the characters in the game. You'll 
 end up hearing references to several other games, mainly their own Diablo. One of the first quest 
 you get is helping a child recover his wooden leg (that can be used as a weapon) from a beast. 
 For those unfamiliar with Diablo II, you use Wort's Leg to uncover a hidden cow level in the game. 
 It's a funny level and full of treasures, as well as one of the quickest ways to level up your 
 character. I'm not sure as of yet, but I'm waiting for the opening of a portal to a new version 
 of the cow level. Lastly, one of my favorite easter eggs is homage to a video game icon known to 
 PC gamers as Coconut Monkey. In December 2007's PC Gamer, there's a code in the magazine that gives 
 you an unlock for an in-game pet known to readers of the magazine as Coconut Monkey. It is the 
 future, so this time around, Coconut Monkey is floating around and looking pretty dead, but that 
 is just the coolest in-game pet since the baby Diablo or Zergs from World of Warcraft.
  
  As far as the graphics, there's really good, even on a DirectX 9 video card. Using a DirectX 10 
 video card is what it's all about though. The game looks really sweet with it's advanced motion 
 blur and lighting, however, it comes at a cost of performance. The overall experience with the 
 graphics are nice, but there's some errors. For instance, the game really tries to load too much 
 at once sometimes, most noticeable in the subway stations. The game really has a problem with just 
 too much being on the screen at once, and with it being a DirectX 10 built game, that will definitely 
 cause some systems to bog down. During the instances (or any battle areas) , you'll usually play 
 the game lag free. The only times I noticed more slow down was during battles where the friendly 
 AI units helped you, mainly because the game pours too many on screen at once. Overall though, 
 the game runs really well, and it should be playable on a system even running some of the oldest 
 hardware (although, it will cost you in overall quality in a big way) . Aside from visuals, the 
 audio is near perfect. There's not a lot of voice acting, which should have been added, but the 
 musical score is perfect. It's not overall annoying, and it plays when your is a hint system.
 
  
  The bugs that are in the game are highly annoying, and will (and from seeing from the player reviews, 
 have) turn people away from the game. Don't discourage though. The company is new. The engine is 
 new. The network is new. You're helping start a new company, so you can't expect perfection. However, 
 the one bug that annoyed me most of all in the beta was the system hanging while quitting the game. 
 This bug is still available. Most of the bugs are just that. There's a few generic bugs in the 
 game. One being when you start the game up in multiplayer, it will usually pop up with a "Network 
 error" bug, but after you click okay and sign in, it's fine. One of the biggest problems I personally 
 have with the game is lag. I understand it's new, but I'm really having a problem with server lag. 
 I'm sure this will be worked out by Christmas.
  
  Lastly, there's an optional subscription fee that players may want to jump into, although I don't 
 recommend it. The only thing it really adds is harder difficulty levels, a few more pieces of armor 
 and sword, and a PVP mode. The PVP would have been nice, but I can live without this round of hack-n-slash. 
 The fee isn't too pricey for only $10, but still, it's a great game without spending the money 
 per month.
  
  Overall, this game will keep you entertained for hours. The game play alone, from beginning to 
 end, is a good 40 hours. Even though the level cap is at 50, you won't be hitting it in that time 
 being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etheven
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Instead of doing a full review I just wanna focus on the pros and contras (/i'm playing as an engineer) :
 
  
  
  Pros:
  
  - It's a very entertaining game without too many complications: just kill everybody.
  
  - You 
 can improve your character, learn new skills, improbe any equipment, etc.
  
  - The mix of Diablo style RPG and futuristic shooter makes this game different.
  
  - Some misions 
 are a bit different than usual. One of them even let you play a small and simple version of tactic 
 rte.
  
  
  Contras:
  
  - The main story is just confusing and not very interesting just an excuse to get another mission. 
 
  
  - The characters ar all crazy without personality and the conversations just useless you just need 
 to know at the end the objective of the mission.
  
  - Lack of information. You'll need to find out how to improbe the weapons and armor by yourself, 
 no help in the game itself.
  
  - The enemies and demons have no personality neither and the design of them is not really great.
 
  
  In conclusion, if you wanna play a game without too many complications and you want to try a futuristic 
 Diablo style rpg you can enjoy this one but don't expect any interesting story and you won't fin 
 any charismatic character in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morereverbplz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  Hellgate may be somewhat repetitive, but so is shooting heroin in a boarding house in thailand. 
 This game has the addict formula down, and this is coming from someone who didn't like the diablo 
 series much, and is much more into the oblivion, stalker, system shock 2, and deus ex style games. 
 Maybe its just because I love fps rpg's more than anything, but I think this may be the best pick 
 of the just... bad games that are coming out this season (probably with the exception of Crysis, 
 but I need to upgrade first XD) . Yes, the gameplay and aesthetics are fairly repetitive, but the 
 highly diverse skill tree in addition to constant item upgrading and mods keep you trucking along, 
 not to mention that they are different for all of the 6 classes (haven't seen replay value like 
 that since the almost continuum of replay in oblivion) . To sum it up: New abilities, new weapons 
 + armor, and new quests (many of which are totally optional) are constant in this game. There are 
 also new enemies and as far as I can tell kinda new environments (some different architecture, 
 same general theme) as you progress. Single player is fun, relatively easy, and also gives you 
 the chance to "know" the game before you hop online, where the real fun starts. You can also get 
 the story down and done, so you don't have to miss it all when your anxiously accepting quests 
 online. There is a loose story, and it is shallow so far, but I think the atmosphere (which is 
 portrayed very well) is enough for the purposes of this game. The story pretty much acts to move 
 you one hub to the next in order to get more quests and more precious STUFF. It's essentially a 
 war between humanity and hell. When you get online, party up, and start battling on the streets, 
 thats exactly how it feels, and the story becomes somewhat irrelevant and more of a necessary bridge 
 to progress through areas. This is ok though, because you can go through it with your buddies and 
 the action is always fun. It begins to feel like a smaller scale mmo because of the hubs (for trading, 
 partying, upgrading, etc.) connected through battle zones in a large network. You can always find 
 people to party up with and keep progressing through the game regardless of level. Personally, 
 this game was just what I needed. The only other game I'm still playing is oblivion, and although 
 Hellgate doesnt even come close to the depth and complexity, the addictive action and online conquest 
 make up for it. Hellgate: lots of stuff, lots of cool character development, cool atmosphere, and 
 in my opinion a "mini - mmo" without paying a monthly fee (minus the bonus stuff, which I haven't 
 looked at yet) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kekkonan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  For a game that I have been waiting a while for and eagerly watching the videos that they released 
 about the game I have to say that I have a fairly mixed reaction to Hellgate.
  On the one hand it's fun and seriously addictive, but on the other it's fairly boring and the state 
 of the game at release certainly doesn't help any either.
  I even played the demo and really enjoyed it which given the amount of slagging off it received 
 I was sort of surprised about. So imagine my surprise when you finally load the game up and watch 
 the really good game intro and start to think yeah, this is gonna be sweet - I mean guns, swords, 
 cool armour and demons. (What more do you need?)
  Unfortunately, it needs plenty more because after the intro it sadly all goes downhill. The start 
 of the game is exactly the same as the demo including all the seriously bad voiceovers (what there 
 are of them) . Obviously if you didn't like the demo, then you ain't gonna like the game, but being 
 as I did enjoy it , I thought well lets see how this goes. Now 15 hours in of killing thousands 
 of mutants and demons and zombies (ohh plenty of zombies, sooo many zombies, god how many zombies!!!!) 
 I've finally figured out the games main problem - it's the simple fact that the entire game is 
 exactly the same as the demo. It's a simple go here do that mentally and then suddenly it's like 
 oooh i have some shiny new armour to break the repetition every now and then. Of course the problems 
 don't just stop there, there are so many bugs it's unbelievable! I mean you enter a new area and 
 it's completely black or your well into a level and you'll turn a corner and half the rooms black 
 or you will be playing for either 5 mins or 5 hours and it'll just suddenly cut out on you and 
 drop you back to windows. (The only good thing about that last bug is that the game saves when 
 you enter a new area so you usually haven't lost too much data.
  This is not to say that i didn't enjoy because i did. The last time i actually wanted to continue 
 playing past 4am trying to just go up another level has been ages and for that i salute it, but 
 again once get to level 20 the grind kicks in and i just start to think - i can't be bothered - 
 and i just switch off. 
  It's also poorly optimized because i can be in a room full of demons and whatnot and the frame 
 rate will be as steady as a cow's backside and bbq day and then you go and blow up some barrels 
 and the whole thing just slows down completely which obviously ain't useful. You really do need 
 a monster machine to play this well and especially because the games one redeeming feature is just 
 improving your character with new weapons and armour and of course on the lower settings they just 
 look absolutely rubbish which means that it's just a bunch of stats instead of something looking 
 nice and ergo making it something you will happily look at for hour on hour. 
  The general design of the game though i have to admit isn't half bad with the subway tunnels with 
 the vendors and mission givers is pretty cool (though i was expecting something a bit bigger) , 
 but again the random area generator thingy does sort of seem tacky especially when you have the 
 same basic rooms and tunnels staring back at you all the time - it almost feels like a copout of 
 sorts rather than being the plus it was meant to be.
  Of course this being an RPG it has several different character classes of melee, guns, guns/drones, 
 magicky guns, and summoner. Now you would think from this that the classes are fairly different, 
 but take the fact that most of the classes can use guns of a sort, two of them can pets, and the 
 other two are melee types then you begin to narrow down the options a tad bit. Now the pets to 
 be honest at first are cool and can be useful until of course they decide to run off get killed 
 because you haven't got a single little bit of control over them - well apart from having them 
 out or not. The guns - well these are so-so because you've got the basic machinegun, lightning 
 gun, rocket launcher, shotgun, flame thrower, wasp thrower etc etc which is a good group when you 
 think about it but the problem is that once you've found one of certain type of gun you've basically 
 found them all because they do the classic thing of changing the guns colour and saying - ooooh 
 it's new have this which gets boring fairly quickly (unless of course you like this sort of thing 
 then good for you) .
  Now i can't speak for the multiplayer experience because quite frankly i couldn't be bothered, 
 but overall i think this is one of those games that has so much potential and it moving in the 
 right direction but just failed miserably. Put it simply if i were you and you still wanted to 
 get this game then wait at LEAST 6 months for some good patches to come out and then get when it'll 
 hopefully be cheaper too. 
  I really wanted to like this game but after it quitting on me one time too many i had to say this 
 is it you're going right now and i deleted it off my hard drive right there and then.
  Simple tip: play the demo for 10 hours using both character classes and if you still like it then 
 by all means by the game - my mistake was that i played it for only about an hour.
  Cheers and thanks for reading,
  Kekkonan
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfenixxx
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  This game was hyped up for no reason whatsoever just because of some of the names that made d2 
 were on board with this game. well they used their d2 pull to suck people into this miserable excuse 
 for a game. i hope to never see another product from this company.
  
  worst game i ever have bought in the last 2 years. was too ambitious and they wanted to prove too 
 much and release too fast
  
  they coulda just slowed down and fix all the bugs. i seriously regret ever buying this game preorder 
 and everything lol 
  
  im laughing at my own stupidity for falling into their 'd2 reputation' which im sure its pretty 
 much gone after this game. this will be remembered as a big failure for a long time lol 
  
  gl flagship on your failed game and ruined rep :P
  
  so save your money and dont buy this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShatterStar77
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London is a suprisingly fun game to play. The game has lots of loot to find, tones of 
 demons to kill and the graphics look decent. But there are some downsides as well...
  
  
  The Good:
  
  Graphics - Better then I expected. On high settings they look great, but I keep 
 them on Med-High for best frame rate.
  
  Sound - Not bad. I like the sound of monsters getting cut down and the music is great, really gets 
 the blood pumping. Could use more verbal interactions with NPSs.
  
  Gameplay - Almost like Diablo in 3D. Feels a lot like a FPS when your a Hunter. Very fun with 2 
 or more people.
  
  Loot - One of the best aspects of the game. Finding that one piece of armor or wepon you've been 
 looking for has a great feeling to it.
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  Multiplayer - Still needs work. Its fun to team up with your friends and kill some demons, but 
 getting the team togeather is another story. Bad set up for aquiring friends. 
  
  Bugs - several bugs have caused me to crash to windows. Very fustrating when in multi player and 
 are unable to see your friends fighting right beside you.
  
  
  Bottom Line: A great concept, but feels unfinished. Could have used a few more multi-player options 
 and a couple more months in the Beta. Overall it brings me back to my Diablo days which I loved 
 so much. Its worth playing and it should get better after the first patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gryphus1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  i have play this game and i find that is a very cool system like diablo and diablo 2 , but y evulutionated 
 , just awesome , i love this game now , great videos and a lot of fun, he he he he he he he he 
 he he.
  
  
  Hellgate: London combines the depth of role-playing games and action of first-person titles, while 
 offering infinite playability with randomly created levels, items and events. The player creates 
 a heroic character, completes quests and battles through innumerable hordes of demons to advance 
 through experience levels and branching skill paths. A robust, flexible skill and spell system, 
 highly customizable appearances and a massive variety of randomly generated equipment allow players 
 to create their own unique hero. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: camar001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Well, I have had a flick through the reviews that have been posted on here and alot of them heap 
 high praises on the game. However, there are one or two terribly low scores and just post that 
 are generally there to flame the game because it didnt meet 'their' expectations. I dont know what 
 they were expecting, but they obviously had their hopes set so high that nothing Flagship produced 
 was gonna please them. So, Im gonna put forwards my opinions about this game in my second ever 
 review, my first being of the shameful Quake Wars.
  
  Let me begin my saying that yes... this game is horribly incomplete. Im lucky if I can play for 
 a couple of hours before it crashes or the display drivers fail. This is in part due to the fact 
 that EA forced Flagship to ship the game before it was complete to hit the market on October 31st. 
 So, the bugs arent entirely Flagships fault. They even admit on their forums that the game was 
 horribly broken, but that they were forced to release it by the publishers. This is a shameful 
 act on the part of EA, who if they had shown a little more patience, the reaction to the game wouldnt 
 have been so mixed. BAD Electronic Arts!
  
  On the bright side, the Development team is very active on the support forums. They are keeping 
 the community informed as to the situation with the current issues, what action is being taken 
 to fix any and all problems and how long it might be till a patch comes out to fix current issues. 
 This is a brave move on the part of the developers as they are leaving themselves open to alot 
 of flamming, which so far hasnt occured, but it easily could. The main issue with the game at the 
 moment is an issue that causes an out of memory error and graphics drivers stopping responding 
 is another.
  
  However, bugs asside for a moment lets turn to the game itself. Crank up the detail, hit DX10 and 
 you are in for a treat. It looks great! Textures are extremely detailed and so are the environments. 
 There is plenty of things to see in the details and one of the great joys is upgrading your armour 
 and being able to see the difference in your characters appearance. 
  
  Sound is okay... its nothing to write home about though. Some of the sounds are a little... flat. 
 But they do the job that they are intended to. Voice acting... well, there isnt much of it and what 
 their is isnt great. Poorly voiced british accents for the loose.
  
  But, that isnt what makes this game. While the plot may not be perfect, it does the job. But the 
 plot plays second fiddle to the gameplay. The gameplay is simply put... great. You run around, killing 
 things, gaining XP and finding loot. You jump in your seat each time you find a 'Legendary' item. 
 Its the looting that makes the killing worth while and each and every item you pick up has its 
 uses, even if it is just to break it down and use it for parts. Its what made Diablo 2 great... the 
 looting and killing. The Plot in Diablo 2 wasnt great you know... infact it was as shallow as Hellgates, 
 but that isnt what made the game great. It was the gameplay... and that gameplay has found its way 
 into the Spiritual successor of Diablo.
  
  Now, if MMO style play isnt for you.... its simply, dont get this game. Its like a single player 
 MMO. There is an option to play it online too, where it takes on a Guild Wars intancing on battle 
 areas and towns are communal areas where players can meet. There is also an option to subscribe 
 and pay monthly for this game, where you get additional content, gameplay modes, tilesets, calsses 
 and such as they are developed. But, Im gonna be honest with you.
  
  While the game at the moment is great, its too horribly broken to wrrant a 10 a month subscription 
 fee. Ontop of that, there isnt any really new content available so soon after its release. Leave 
 it a couple of months and check back before you decide to buy into the monthly fee.
  
  Overall, the game is alot of fun to play... if you can work around the bugs for the time being and 
 look at the game for the gameplay and not the issues forced on it by and shoddy decision on EA's 
 part. This game is a classic in the making and before too long is going to become something quite 
 spectacular... just not there yet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whocares9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  My best guess for the poor scores that some places give this game is the fact that the stations 
 or areas that you visit and see people at are repetitive. The levels you fight in can get repetitive 
 as well but we have to remember that diablo was no different. The random item generation is extremely 
 addictive as you keep hoping to get better and better items. The leveling system keeps you playing 
 and the armor in the game looks fantastic. What really brings this game down is some of the technical 
 issues it suffers from. DX10 isn't to great in this game as far as optimization goes but the game 
 is perfectly playable in DX9. It eats resources unnecessarily and runs slower on machines that 
 it should be running fine on. I hope for patches for this. Never the less this is a fantastic hack 
 and slash game even though it may not have lived up to all the hype some people had for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megagamer0193
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate London Is something a lot of us where not ready for. Hellgate London is a First Person 
 shooter, a 3rd person shooter, a hack and slash, and a MMORPG all in one game. Since it from the 
 makers of Diablo and Diablo 2 People Had high hopes for the game. Some where let down while others 
 where not. But this is a review. This game offers a great enjoyable time. You start out and lvl 
 1 just like you would in any RPG. You fight monsters that are easy at first, but get harder as 
 you go along. The game has some bugs right now but should be fixed someday. Not to mention the 
 content patch that's coming out in December. This game offers what everyone wants "Free online 
 play" (with the option to subscribe for more features) Now This part is going to be my Personal 
 response to the Question "Should I buy this game?" I would say YES! This game offers anything you 
 could want. From A decent amount of weapons to body armor, 'Subscriber Only" Events that give new 
 items. Interactivity with other people, And awesome NPC characters. Basically this game will toss 
 you right into the action and you will have a blast Looting for new items. So why don't you go 
 out there and Breech That HellGate! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlt0028
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  This game is full of bugs even after the patches that have been made. I purchased through EA download 
 and cant even play the singler player campaign. I asked EA about the issue and they gave me a generic 
 response of "You already have this game installed on 4 computers". How is that possible if I only 
 have one computer? I was so frustrated with this game that I almost threw my Samsung monitor out 
 my bedroom window. How can EA allow such a poor performing game carry there name? If you want to 
 have the same type of experience as Hellgate, buy Guild Wars as this game has no networking issues 
 or performance issues. This game had so much potential, but I am really wanting a refund on this 
 piece of junk. I also think the Warcraft animation is quite outdated when you're talking to NPC's 
 in the game. With all the beta testing and a quality assurance staff, why are there so many issues? 
 As for the subscription service, are you kidding me? What do you get, extra headaches? The service 
 to subscribe wasnt even working right. Flagship should rethink how important it is to get a functional 
 game out without saying to customers "A patch will be coming to fix the issues with.....". A patch 
 is just a way of saying, "We put out garbage and need to clean it up." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckwaltz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of action rpgs then I think Hellgate: London is the game for you. Many people on 
 the web have complained of bugs. I have this to say in response. All games, nowadays, are released 
 with bugs. We, as consumers, must have faith that patches will arrive which correct these problems. 
 For a game with such a large, online component, it would be ludicrous to assume that the game will 
 remain as is. I believe that with time and patches many of the kinks will be worked out. That said, 
 I want to stress that regardless of a few minor bugs, Hellgate is still rockin'.
  
  The graphics are excellent. If you do not have a beefy system you may have some problems. Just 
 tone down your settings.
  
  The music and sounds are well done and really help to create a forboding, demonic mood.
  
  
 The levels are randomly generated a la Diablo. The game actually has a lot in common with Diablo, 
 including some developers. 
  
  The game also has some novel features which set it apart from other rpgs on the market right now.
 
  
  It may not be the much anticipated wow-killer, but Hellgate is an awesome game nonetheless. I suggest 
 you give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxbat44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Hellgate doesn't try to be an MMO
  
  If you think of it as one you will be disapointed. Instead think of it as a Single player RPG like 
 Diablo with Multiplayer fully supported from the get go. This means its easier to form groups with 
 friends trade items and have fun. Lag is managable even in the second week of launch, Crashes are 
 few even on windows vista, and the graphics look great especially on a DX 10 setup.
  
  This is truely Diablo's successor and the story line is broad in scope but still guided and focused. 
 The humor of the designers is refreshing as well you never know when you might blurt out laughing 
 and wake the neibors. I especially like the Captain kirk and Captain Pickard NPCs. 
  
  For the people that said there wasn't enough variation in the terrain sets they obviously didn't 
 lay past the demo. Each station you go to introduces a new tile set so by the time you are at the 
 4th tile set the towns quests will involve 5 different tile sets. If you would remember in Diablo 
 2 the first town only had 1 tileset as well.
  
  In closing this game isn't a revolutionary title but it is the spiritual successor to Diablo 2. 
 If you liked that game get this one. If you liked Dungeon siege get this oen. They have designed 
 this single player RPG with multiplayer in mind from the start and have left alot of room for improvment. 
 I just hope they improve guild functionality and add a market place of some kind. Then this would 
 be a 9.0 game. Happy slaying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmercure
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game really seems to have drawn the line between those that like it and those that don't. 
 I'll say right off the bat that yes, the game has bugs, and yes, it was released far too early.... but...
 
  
  The core of the gameplay is enjoyable, and well executed. You just have to like the diablo style 
 gameplay. The character 'talent' system is very cool, and in hardcore tradition, there are no 'respecs', 
 although this will upset those that have come to rely upon them in games like WoW. One character 
 'blademaster' can be very different from the next guy. The multiplayer is also fun (again, riddled 
 with some bugs at the moment) . 
  
  There is plenty of loot, plenty of monsters to kill, and the combat is engaging. 
  
  The negatives 
 for me include the inventory system - it is antiquated ala diablo II, and some of the bugs (I've 
 had my weapons dissapear more than once) . But I suspect these will be worked out by flagship in 
 short order. The game also needs a good looking for group system since the 'common areas' are instanced. 
 
  
  Overall, I see this really becoming a strong title with a loyal following over the next year. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickstock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  It's just plain fun, so I think it does get the job done. If you had fun with Diablo I & II, and 
 with Vampire series. Then this game is totally for you, lot more freewill than his predecesors 
 mentioned before. A cool variety of specialties to let you play various kinds of versions of the 
 game.
  Although is far from being game of the year, I think it delivers.
  
  Also it doesnt ask great requierments so you wont have to wait eternal loadings or slow in game 
 graphs. Enjoy, i guess.
  
  It's just plain fun, so I think it does get the job done. If you had fun with Diablo I & II, and 
 with Vampire series. Then this game is totally for you, lot more freewill than his predecesors 
 mentioned before. A cool variety of specialties to let you play various kinds of versions of the 
 game.
  Although is far from being game of the year, I think it delivers.
  
  Also it doesnt ask great requierments so you wont have to wait eternal loadings or slow in game 
 graphs. Enjoy, i guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VamperoBlood
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I been playing the game since beta. What I like about this MMO is that you can log on and PLAY!! 
 You don't have to waste time looking for people to join to get great xp. It is a fast pace MMO so 
 once you start your quest you don't have much time to type and talk. That is why I like this MMO 
 it take all the bullsh*t out of MMO's and lets you game. I'm working on chapter 5 now so I know 
 what I'm talking about when it comes to HGL. You can upgrade you armor. So it you get a unique 
 drop you can upgrade as you lvl. There are down falls , the guild system as right now sucks. Chat 
 system is very poor .You can't drag and drop you item in the chat line to show people what item 
 your trying to sell a item. They need to fix that for sure. Game play is the meat of the game.. I 
 will gave that part a 10. Like every MMO they can patch the game. The next big patch in DEC . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShafTatsu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  I got very disappointed from the gameplay and that's because I expected an oblivion/doom combination. 
 Aiming and movement generally are faulty or need fixing. 
  
  The World creation and the levels design gets you bored early in the game, some characters shouldn't 
 exist cause they spoil the feeling that you should have, and generally when you say that you are 
 actually start having fun, something that doesn't feel right comes up, and you realize that they 
 didn't put too much effort in the game. 
  
  Has some nice graphics and a big variety of well designed weapons, as well as many nice ideas that 
 I believe other games may accommodate in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfman2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait - a Diablo 1st person shooter - what could be better. Graphically the game is above 
 average. It' is easy to learn and the beginning levels ease you into the game. Different classes 
 & random map generation make for excellent replay value. Tons of goodies, but as in Diablo, most 
 of it either doen't work with your character or is just plain trash. One neat aspect is that NPC 
 rewards alaways have multiple choices. Just doesn't measure up to the best shooters (Half-Life 
 & Far Cry/Crysis) . No grounbreaking new features here. Still this game is a lot of fun.
  Get it on sale for X-mas & the price will be just right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damascus_Six
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Updated graphics won't save this rehash of previous hack and slash games. Absolutely nothing original 
 has been implemented in Hellgate; the creators of Diablo 2 should be ashamed of releasing such 
 mediocrity with a monthly fee no less. In fact this is Diablo 2. 6 classes each with skill trees 
 available in increments of 5 levels, kill thousands and thousands of brainless mobs while picking 
 up piles of junky loot. Hell they even have scrolls of identify and town portal just renamed to 
 fit the sci-fi theme. Yeah I've been there and done that many years ago. It sickens me that this 
 kind of blatant rip off is hyped up to be one of the top games of the year, while offering no innovations 
 whatsoever, and releasing a gimped version along side the monthly fee premium version. Absolute 
 trash that only a handful of hardcore players will be willing to put up with. The tedious nature 
 of the game will empty the servers within months. This isn't a game, its a money grab from EA. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentBaconFI
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Nearly London beat to Hell, Free return trip to a red mist themed hell and an imp slaying marathon.
 
  
  Havent got round to multiplayer hellgate as instability in some parts and my own dislike of Quitting 
 on a party requires I wait till I know I can finnish the job before I risk messing with a real 
 person's game.
  
  Single player is fun ok some characters are a bit bland (some have even been toned down to bland 
 from more fun alternatives (Techsmith 101 being mad and almost hittingf on your character (Male 
 or female) )
  
  story IS a bit flat I think the makers were hoping for Role Playing online gamers to fill in the 
 gaps but it COULD be better (Like Guild Wars imo) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickity_China
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I don't know whether or not I should like this game or not. Although Hellgate is very unique, with 
 its blend of RPG, FPS, and Action Adventure, none of those elements are done very well.
  
  The RPG part of the game is nothing special. Kill monsters, gain levels, collect money, buy stuff, 
 save the world, etc . However, there are a few cool little things that can enhance the experience. 
 Such things like being able to match the color of clothing and armor, and modifying weapons and 
 gear with collected spare parts and such certainly make the game more enjoyable.
  
  Also, Hellgate can be played from third or first person perspectives. Say, if you have a sword 
 in your hands, then you'll be in third person but if you're rollin with a gun or couple guns, then 
 you'll automatically switch to first person. This, while cool at first, gets very annoying because 
 the FPS part of the game is done poorly. It's hard to describe but in FPS mode just doesn't feel 
 right. 
  
  The combat system reminds me of Jade Empire. You have full control of your character when you're 
 engaged. That means you can dodge your enemies and not rely on "dice rolls." However, its hard 
 to be clicking the mouse, moving with the wads keys and trying to press many of the number buttons 
 the access special skills at the same time. So, for me, its either run around and fight with basic 
 attacks via mouse clicks or stand my ground and use the special attacks. Either one works although 
 it'll be much better if Hellgate revamped its combat system to allow me to use special moves more 
 effectively.
  
  In addition to the poor combat mechanics, the side quests are extremely bland. As plentiful as 
 they are, none of them are actually meaningful. Most of them simply require you to kill 10 or 20 
 enemies of a certain type, kill a major enemy, or collect dropped items from dead enemies. Dull 
 dull dull. This certainly can't compare to the well thought out and intuitive side quests found 
 in other games such as Knights of the Old Republic.
  
  The environments are quite dull as well. Within the first few hours, you'll pretty much see everything 
 the game has to offer visually. You'll be getting Deja Vu a lot.
  Another problem is the frequent glitches. I often found myself running towards an open rift, chased 
 by a big, ugly demon, about to die, and running right through the rift with nothing happening. 
 In addition, the framerate is very unsteady. Sometimes, a few barrels exploding can cause the rate 
 to dive to the single digits.
  
  With that said, Hellgate does have its merits. There are a variety of enemies, the game is uniquely 
 enticing because of the combination of RPG and FPS, and upgrading weapons feels quite reqarding. 
 Played on a decent computer, the graphics are quite good as well.
  
  If you're looking for a twist to the tried and true Western RPG formula, give Hellgate: London 
 a try, but if you're looking to the same quality as Knights of the Old Republic or The Elder Scrolls, 
 then this game does not deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takebo
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Coming from a Diablo creator (s) , i was excepting too much from this game i guess. I'm still playing 
 but isn't that great game that will make you go like: "woooowww awesome!". The repetitive scenarios 
 of every "dungeon" makes you tired really fast, i can say that is too liner, the maps isn't that 
 big like, you can go explore all the places, its more like you start here and just follow the path 
 and gets to the end. Yeah, the big deal on this game its only the big range of custom weapons/equips/etc, 
 that you can mod and make some cool stuffs. Still lots of bugs, really disappointed so far. I hope 
 the new patch and really really comes a expansion that makes it worth to play for a game to have 
 in our collections.
  
  I'm still having fun on diablo, the gameplay is so addicting.
  Now a days ppl focus too much on graphic and not in gameplay content like more things we could 
 enjoy in the game. Shame how we came to a point to enjoy more with our eyes than our brains. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilson_k
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  I was so excited when when I took the game out of the box and sloting it into my com but all i 
 get was dissapointment..............
  
  This is one of the worst game i bought!!!
  
  1st of all its so buggy that it crushes every 40 to 60 min
  
  2nd it get very annoying fighting 
 the same monster over and over again
  
  3rd the conversation with the NCP are nothing but rubbish
  
  4th after playing 4 to 5 hours 
 i dun even know what the hack is going on
  there is complately no logic to the quest either the main or the sub.
  
  the game start with 
 a real cool intro and its all about fighting for the living and a woman fighting a daemon and dieing 
 to save girl which is sooooooooooo coooooooool!!!!!! But after I start the game I got no idea where 
 the hack I m and who m I. They did not even give an intro o0n the player and no tutoral and no 
 nothing excapt for a few zombies.
  
  when i got to the part where i had to talk to the npc, i thought that my speakers was down function 
 before i found out that the NPC are all dumb.
  So i thought OK maybe the story will begain afterwards which also tells me that i m thinking tooo 
 much. What story ah it a bunch of rubbish!!!!!
  
  Its a total wast of time, money, life and my youth!!!!! Buy this game only if you are planning to 
 waste your money as even the online playing SxxK. I think I am turning to Crysis... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silunt
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  I see alot of reviews that seem to be attacking players who feel this game was not worthy of its 
 price tag on release and wanted to put my honest review without lowering myself to the level of 
 calling players who do not wish to pay the monthly fee "cheap".
  
  Graphics - This game has moderate graphics, thats it. You can crank them up as high as you want 
 and they are decent but thats it. People keep using words like 'great' to describe the graphics... you 
 want great look at Crysis, Bioshock, Call of Duty 4, etc etc etc. 
  
  Performance - (my system specs: 2.8 ghz pentium D, 3GB system ram, GeForce 8800 GTS w/640) Considering 
 the more moderate graphics in this game I was very surprised by the performance issues. A large 
 part of slow downs of course comes when you get masses of enemies coming at you all shooting/casting 
 etc... add onto that the large number of breakable objects. Optimization is needed but is not critical 
 though the game gets pretty crappy looking when you turn down the settings to get the performance 
 you need.
  
  Bugs - Yes, Flagship is yet another of those lame companies that thinks its ok to release a bug-ridden 
 game figuring to fix it later. I'm not going to bother listing the ridiculous amount of game stopping 
 bugs.
  
  Sound - To be honest the game music just plain sucks. The sound effects are average.
  
  Subscription 
 - Hellgate's launch should have a fun weekend for everyone but due to bugs and all the subscription 
 crap it was just one big gripe fest. First off, you do not charge subscriptions for an unfinished 
 game. Secondly when you are promoting the launch of your game as a big holiday event (i. e. the 
 big Halloween Release) you do not then make the holiday content for release weekend subscriber 
 only.... you alienated a majority of your players when you did that basically telling us our 50 
 dollars means squat and the launch celebration was never intended to include us. Flagship did end 
 up making the Halloween content for everyone BUT the only reason they did this is because their 
 subscription service was completly broken. Now, instead of just setting subscriptions aside and 
 dealing with the massive critical bugs plaguing this game they are trying to rush out any kind 
 of content they can to get more people paying for extras that don't even exist. Holding things 
 like graphic updates hostage to get people to pay 10 dollars a month over the 50 dollar purchase 
 price is unforgiveable.
  
  I would score this game 4/10. I have no sympathy for Flagship simply because everything that is 
 wrong they allowed to be wrong. These bugs existed for a long time in Beta and the game should 
 not have been released until they were fixed. They deserve the beating they are taking.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whatsthesitch
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It certainly LOOKED exciting, and many of my friends and I couldn't wait to play it. I even called 
 the game, to my regret, the new Diablo. Shame. My friend stops playing it, says that it's too action 
 packed that he had to rest, but I think it's because of the gameplay.
  
  I'm not going to talk about the various bugs or the issues this game has. Plenty of people had 
 covered that already. It surprises me though that the only person who actually mentioned the point 
 I'm about to talk about was the Gamespot person who did the review. That point was, the mood of 
 the game.
  
  Look at the intro CG. Knights in high tech armor fighting for survival. Heroic sacrifices for the 
 little girl made sure that she survived for a greater destiny. The gloomy feeling that it's the 
 age of 'kill, or be killed.' To quote from the game itself "Remember the dead, but fight for the 
 living". OMG it's soooooo cool!
  
  I have yet to find that quote again anywhere in the game.
  
  Expecting such a dark and gloomy 
 futuristic setting, I rushed to talk to NPCs and get quests. The first one was a whole unit of 
 Templars killed, and I have to deliver something. Good.
  Then I got to the train station. This guy keeps on muttering something about something out there 
 or something. The next guys mumbles stuff about high tech weaponry, then cackles maniacally, a 
 technician said "That was the best conversation I'd had in my life" with a high pitched, girlish 
 voice, and a lady greeted my with "Is that a heavy weapon in your pocket, or are you just happy 
 to see me?"
  Wait, so is this game serious or funny? In both cases, it failed miserably. I expected to have 
 that aforementioned quote repeated over and over until I feel like a part of a resistance, and 
 not maniacs trying to be funny.
  
  Then there's the storyline. The first thing I see in the game was appearing alone out of nowhere. 
 Heck, I don't even know if my character belonged to any group, was lost, a part of an independent 
 militia, or anything at all. He was just..... there. Fine, I thought. Then after a few hours in 
 playing it, I realized that I'm not really fighting for anything at all. Quests after quests after 
 quests that has to do with killing demon x, y, and z to get items a, b, and c. Until this point 
 I'm not sure what I'm doing, and from other reviews I feel like it's not getting better.
  
  The only thing that kept me playing was getting the new items. That is fun, but with the mood gone 
 it kinda feels pointless.
  
  In conclusion, from the point after the final frame of the intro movie, it's a disappointing game, 
 with confusing mood, strange 'storyline', if any, and repetitiveness. Well, at least that new legendary 
 sniper rifle I just got for my character is good....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting a long time for a sequel to Diablo, or at least some sort of a spiritual successor. 
 That game has finally arrived in the package of Hellgate: London. How would this highly anticipated 
 Role Playing Game stack up?
  As you can decipher on your own, the game takes place in London, and it has something to do with 
 hell. And that's exactly what it is. The world as we know it comes to an abrupt end when the gates 
 of hell open all over the world about ten years from now to wreck havoc. And the only people that 
 saw it coming were some 12th century novelists. You play as a member of three races; a Templar 
 which is the melee sword wielding catholic knight you would come to expect, a Cabalist which are 
 demon magic wielders, and the Hunters, which are surviving military operatives. Each Race has two 
 specific classes, for a total of six. A great feature is the variety of views, a melee class, like 
 the Templar's Blademaster is show in the familiar third person view, however a shooter class like 
 the Hunter's Marksman is portrayed in a first person perspective (with a choice of third person 
 view) makes it almost feel like you playing a different game.
  Your characters path is paved by slicing through countless demons and undead, seeking various oracles, 
 and breaching the Hell rifts that house the beasts. At best, it's an averagely appealing story, 
 but it is best conveyed through a series of cut scenes.
  However a game like this places less importance on story, and more on the combat. This, is where 
 the game truly excels. Combat is quick, as you can nail dozens of foes in meer minutes. And more 
 importantly, the repetitive fighting design is simple, and highly addictive. The combination of 
 this with attempting to get yourself the best gear is more than enough to drive you to play hours 
 more of the game.
  The story mode, like Diablo also plays online, where it shows it best colors. Playing with a few 
 of your friends makes the game that much better. 
  In retrospect, there are a few bugs, nothing of major stability, but little annoyances that you 
 wish were absent. You can get the feeling it was rushed to make EA's deadline.
  To conclude this review, Hellgate: London has a lot to offer to both fans of Diablo and to those 
 who tragically have never had the pleasure. In the next upcoming months, when the bugs are all 
 but vanquished, this game as good as it already is, will earn higher praise. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I am not a huge MMO fan, but my buddy talked me into getting HellGate London. This game is in its 
 very eary stages but has huge potential. I love all the weapons and classes ( Currently have all 
 6 classes   lvl 10) which really make the game. You dont need to suscribe as of right now and I 
 would wait to the next big content pack in Decemberm but this game is highly addictive and very 
 fun. If you want to hop in play some coop and kill lots of demons, undead, zombies, ghosts, and 
 whatever u find in all then go for it! The action is almost non-stop and some times exhausting. 
 The gear is the biggest draw for me. The armor and guns and whatever else is updateable and customizable 
 to the hilt. I think if you never tried an MMO before and u like FPS games you should really play 
 the demo and check it out. I really like the story of this game and unlike WoW it has a definitive 
 ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killtek
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Ever have a girlfriend that gave you blue balls? This is how I feel about Hellgate: London. It's 
 sweet and enticing yet has a bitter aftertaste. It seems the devs had plans for a MMO and stopped 
 short of making it happen. Don't get me wrong, I love the theme and character classes, but for 
 some reason I get this empty feeling when I play it for an hour or so. 
  
  The rinse and repeat action of the game is where it falters, at least for me. I feel like I'm playing 
 an MMO style quest and grind but without any rewards and feedback from other players.
  
  In short, this game has tons of potential and I'm hoping EA doesn't mess this game up because it 
 didn't meet quarterly expectations in sales. 
  
  I say buy this game for future returns... don't let us down Flagship!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gun3214
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Even though it has many issues, I don't really mind those issues. What I really like about the 
 game is the leveling up characters, finding stuff like money or special gears, and doing quests (especially 
 side quests) . Haha, I know its boring to do side quest but it gives the player a little more stuff 
 on the side like Experience and othre bonus items, plus longer to enjoy the game. I mean, I don't 
 describe myself as a boring player, I'm just a type of some to most folks that playing a game is 
 fun, from if the game is a total let down to a great game. So even that critics or other people 
 rated below what I rated the game, This game is as fun and addictive or better than as diablo 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerxitig
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  First, so many bugs, to many to enumerate it. If u stay to test all of them u will find u can finish 
 the game in a half an hour. And have level 50 in first two missions. So this thing make the game 
 a little annoying.
  
  Second, this game remembered my a old anime tv series, made in 1990 and something. Except there 
 instead of London was Tokyo or something like that. Even the monsters i remembered from there. 
 So, nothing new.
  And something i do not understand, what game is that where are only 4 maps? 5? What kind or RPG 
 is that? Where u must find an ear to make alcohol for a drunk, kill to make sleeping pills for 
 a woman without brain... ans so on and on... i mean, where is the story? I played and i do not 
 understand a thing from this game? Was a FPS? RPG? What was? And the ending... what happened? Where, 
 how? I finish the game as blademaster and i do not understand a thing, what happened in the end? 
 The book, what? I mean, from the tv anime i understand what happened with the evil and the team, 
 but in the game, nothing. I'm very disappointed of this game. Nothing new, no story, no new monster. 
 No party members, this was the strange part. i mean, if they copied the tv series, the must put 
 the party team in the game, to make it more playable, i think that. I mean, all characters u have 
 to select are the party members from the tv series, not all, but a part of them. My opinion, if 
 they started to copy the tv series, they must to do it like in the tv, not make him unplayable. 
 So my note for this game is 5 because they tried, but not accomplish the story, if they will ever 
 tell they inspired from the tv anime.
  
  But in these day, to steal ideas from things made in other countries is something normal. I mean, 
 Finding Nemo, taken from French, Power Puff Girls from Japan Anime, and so on and on... Nothing 
 new. I hope in an Hellgate: London update, or second part to repair all of this and bring something 
 new, or to bring all the stories form tv series. Or invent a STORY!!!! Something to make it interesting. 
 I played just for fun of it, but, is a game u never play it again, never. One time is enough.
 
  
  If u ask what tv series i speak about, well, i let the Hellgate: London creators to tell that, 
 in the second part where they put the correct story and the party members. I do not want to spoil 
 the surprise. An Japan anime fan like me know what tv series is about.
  
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunken_munki
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Where can I start with this disappointment of a game?
  
  First of all, forget buying this game if you're a Diablo 2 fan. There is no coherent plot, dialog, 
 backstory, or overall polish.
  
  Whats absolutely disgusting about the release of this game:
  
  1. The buggiest game I have 
 ever played - crashes between 30- 60 mins gameplay. Party issues with team members disappearing. 
 Makes this game almost unplayable - and online is completely pointless because the chat system 
 is useless.
  
  2. Graphics on DX10 set to Very High looks WORSE than dx9 and dx10 with low settings. Also performance 
 can be terrible at times. And I have a monster of a PC to play on, this truly makes no sense.
 
  
  3. Seemingly the most rushed release of a game I have ever played. This game should have been in 
 beta for at LEAST 2 months more.
  
  4. The skill system is one of the biggest downfalls of this game. Skills don't compliment each 
 other well for most of the classes. It is just a huge mess all displayed on one page, and nothing 
 like the system from diablo 2.
  There is very little information on what the skills do, and there is no way of recalling spent 
 points. Unless a miracle happens and a massive overhaul of the skills is done then this game will 
 always remain a huge disappointment.
  
  
  Whats bad:
  
  1. There is no story whatsoever. Dialog is properly rubbish, and the way in which characters communicate 
 to you is really bad...
  
  Because!
  
  
  You have to click.
  
  Every sentence.
  
  AND
  
  Every sentence.
  
  AND
  
  Every sentence.
  
  .
  
  .
  
  Ok?
 
  
  
  2. No cut scenes or interesting plot lines.
  
  3. No rewarding movies throughout the game. You get 2 at the very end - which don't feel like its 
 the same game. Please note this is the same with the very cool intro movie.
  
  4. Poor voice acting. In fact I'd go as far as saying that in some places this has the WORST voice 
 acting I have ever heard in a game. Particularly during the cinematic of some random book where 
 some guy chats nonsense like
  
  'Evil, the opposite of good'.
  
  Yeah thanks, I really needed that goddamn explanation. How about instead you tell me what the hell 
 is going on? Did I really need to watch a cinematic of a floating book?
  
  5. Currently you get nothing extra if you have a Subscriber account. Other than 1 extra character 
 slot and some extra storage. And some promises of extra classes and skills. Can I just say that 
 this is rubbish. You might as well subscribe when the glorious things appear, why pay good money 
 now for nothing? Flagship Studios? ARE YOU LISTENING?
  
  6. Diabolical overuse of their so called 'random' level generator, in fact all this does is create 
 the same 4-5 'levels' over and over and over and over and over throughout the entire game - filled 
 with the same 10 monsters. You start not to care about where your are, well actually this happens 
 form the 'tutorial' level onwards where nothing is explained and nothing happens - you just wander 
 around aimlessly from station to station following 'kill x of these' and 'kill this boss' quests.
 
  
  
  So whats good?
  
  1. The models and animations look nice, the items are well designed and look detailed - plus with 
 the randomizations and customizations- its quite fun.
  But this is still flawed because certain things in the game mess up your items and mix/matching 
 your armor is tedious.
  
  2. Core gameplay can be addictive. Finding new equipment etc. However you find that you don't care 
 about the game anymore you just want that next legendary gun for your hunter.
  
  3. Thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elflord21
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Core game play is ok. Basically following the tried and tested Diablo game play of hack and slash.
 
  
  Graphics are not fanastic even with a top end graphics card and good computer setup. More often 
 than not, frame rate dramatically slows down during turning causing jerky graphics. Jumping mobs 
 more often than not are also bugged causing them to get stuck in the air. Flying mobs might also 
 be trapped in walls of buildings causing user being unable to target to kill them. Other issues 
 like transparent characters, friends are also other factors affecting gameplay.
  
  Technical issues like memory leaks causing crashes are major headaches for players. Even with Patch 
 0, these problems are still appearing.
  
  I will rate this as passable due to too much bugs affecting the enjoyment of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London was not only developed by many of the minds behind Blizzard's popular Diablo series, 
 but they have deliberately worked to emulate Diablo and take it to the next level. Diablo was a 
 game of randomly generated dungeons tied to slick, meticulously balanced gameplay mechanics. At 
 the basic level, the main difference between the games is that Diablo was a two-dimensional, isometric 
 perspective and Hellgate: London is fully three-dimensional, over-the-shoulder third-person or 
 first-person perspective game.
  
  Hell has never seemed so appealing. The graphics are both relatively gorgeous and have less technical 
 overhead to display them than Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion or Tabula Rasa. The interlocking play 
 of the randomly generated tilesets are so seamless that only the occasional repeated area tips 
 you off that these were not hand-crafted interiors you're walking through. The enemies are brutal 
 in-your-face creations, and your character's armor and weapons are lovingly created and able to 
 be dyed other colors.
  
  The important part to consider about Hellgate: London is that the core gameplay is tried-and-tested, 
 hack-and-slash fun. The majority of the game is spent hewing down hordes of different kinds of 
 foes, often with different behaviors, sometimes different properties and difficulties. The loot 
 system is both complicated and balanced enough to satisfy the finest of virtual treasure collectors. 
 Here is a game that, rather than becoming repetitive and boring in time, has the potential to become 
 even more satisfying the deeper you get into it.
  
  The longevity of the game is also quite good. The three factions emphasize three fundamentally 
 different ways to play (Melee, Ranged, Magic) with two flavors of each for a total of 6 classes. 
 Thus, even after you've taken your favorite class between all five acts in all three game modes, 
 you've the potential to play the game five other ways with another class. Finally, if you're willing 
 to pay a monthly subscription fee, you'll be able to download all sorts of new content and enhancements 
 (even new classes) as they come available.
  
  So it is that we've reached the counterbalancing side of the review. For all of Hellgate's lavish 
 attention to advancing the state of the game, there's also a plethora of bugs and other problems 
 that have undermined this endeavor. 
  
  In my opinion, the worst of the bugs is a poor memory manager that inevitably results in a crash 
 to desktop (or possibly complete lockup) . Others have been quick to blame the inability to complete 
 Nightmare mode without excessive regrinding old areas (or at all) . The very class balance feels 
 a tad rushed, with many unnecessary or poorly placed skills on some classes' skill trees disrupting 
 the flow of the game. This is to say nothing for server issues encountered by European or Asian 
 players.
  
  There's also the little matter of Hellgate lacking in the multiplayer department. Despite there 
 being no real reason to create a Single Player mode character (other than limitation of character 
 slots) it's highly unlikely you'll ever get into a group. The chat channels are split into hundreds 
 of fractions, likely with many players well outside of your level, and the congregation areas are 
 equally shortsightedly distributed. Regardless that loot is split in such a way that there's no 
 danger of other players shorting you, the challenges given by the game are not so great that they 
 really encourage you to find a second player to help. Currently, this is only a game you'll play 
 with people you know, as strangers usually won't see any reason to invite you along.
  
  In the end, if you're content with a game that is fun but buggy now, you don't mind soloing, and 
 you like hack-and-slash RPGs then you can't go wrong with Hellgate: London. Otherwise, you might 
 want to hold off for a few months first, wait for the developers to iron out the many bugs and 
 add some content players may actually want to team up on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxRyoxX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Well when I grabbed myself a copy of Hellgate, I didn't get right on it I just took a couple hours 
 off my life playing some songs on GH3 ;D.. Then when my brother finally decided to get off WoW 
 ( Which I stopped playing to play my new found favorite mmorpg btw ;D ) I had the chance to finally 
 play.. Loaded it up with little problems and atm im running through the story and I can't stop 
 playing it the controls fit my style of keyboard except with the chat panel. I like how the story 
 keeps you a freelancer yet also leads you to being a hero :D ( Not done yet ) . I like Hellgate 
 so much I just had to play it with the best graphics and used all saved money for some other games 
 and updated my little Alienware powerhouse ( which needed a tune up anyway ) . With the graphics 
 at almost best and all my free time after school and blowing off some friends for some extra game 
 time, Ill be just content with this game for a while. I recommend it to all mmorpg lovers :D . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaselBiggs
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  It's been a little over seven years since Diablo II first hit store shelves. It's amazing to see 
 a game with such a lifespan, considering how most offerings in the entertainment industry tend 
 to be one-bite snacks that are consumed and quickly forgotten. Seven years, and people still play 
 it. Most of the time, we see this applied to genre-defining or genre-redefining games. Myst is 
 still sold, albeit in bundles, and benefits of an even longer lifespan. In a way, the Doom franchise 
 feels the exact same way, as it's still going on. I can still find people that can confess to occasionally 
 popping in the old DOS releases, for instance. Games with that kind of appeal generate their own 
 cultural references and stay in the collective consciousness of most gamers for a long, long time.
 
  
  Simply put, if you've played PC games, you've most likely heard of the Diablo series. If you haven't, 
 I would hang my head in shame, if I were you.
  
  Okay, I'm kidding.
  
  I guess you can see where I'm going with this. It's the One Million Dollar Question for those of 
 us who had feverishly anticipated Flagship Studios' first effort and who today find themselves 
 with a product that has potential, but feels sincerely awkward. 
  
  Can Hellgate: London live up to its predecessors? Answering this question might appear deceptively 
 easy. The HG: L community is extremely divided, it seems, between those who piously overlook the 
 game's many shortcomings and sing its praises freely, and those who feel cheated, who have the 
 general impression of having been given a half-finished version of a decidedly ordinary game. That, 
 in turn, means that answering the above question won't be easy at all.
  
  Note the fact that I've used can and not does, in my sentence structure. As essentially, a little 
 observation allows the average player to realize that the game hasn't reached its full maturation 
 yet. It might seem tempting to vilify an unfinished product, but for the sake of this review, we'll 
 try not to do this. If you feel like reading outraged comments concerning an unpolished and unfinished 
 offering's worth, visit the game's associated forum. You'll see.
  
  The premise is fairly standard and immediately informs you as to what type of game you'll be playing. 
 Demons have invaded a near-future version of London and it's up to you, as either a Templar, a 
 Hunter or a Cabalist, to quite literally clean the streets and lead the efforts towards the reclaiming 
 of one of the world's oldest human settlements. This implies the fact that the game is a mindless, 
 non-stop grindfest, in a way that is unsurprisingly similar to Diablo II. To the uninitiated few 
 (never mind that there's just two or three of you) , let me point out the fact that Flagship Studios 
 was founded by former Blizzard North employees. So if you've played their previous mindless, non-stop 
 grindfest, you'll immediately feel right at home.
  
  The rather weak narrative notwithstanding, your goal therefore consists in caving in the heads 
 of as many demons as possible; in order to continually obtain better gear, abilities and statistics. 
 There's little else to say about the gameplay elements, frankly.
  
  Otherwise, one of the noted concept-related discussions that occurred at Flagship HQ early on defined 
 the game as "Half-Life 2 meets Diablo II". As purely and simply amazing as this concept may sound, 
 it's little more than a fallacy, when applied to the actual (semi-) finished product. There is 
 an option to swing into first-person mode in certain specific classes, but the damage dealt by 
 your weapons is purely based on statistics, much like any other action RPG to date. In a way, it 
 reminds me of Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines' initially much-vaunted ability to play the 
 game in first-person mode, which really turned out to have no specific value, as guns were largely 
 useless if you didn't spend all your points in your character's dexterity.
  
  So, essentially, you'd best think of Hellgate as an action RPG with a gimmicky first-person twist. 
 The essential part of the gameplay behaves like a bare-bones roleplaying game as well, in how your 
 quests are largely of the "fetch and kill" order, but it shouldn't be surprising or frustrating 
 for grindfest lovers.
  
  Graphically speaking, the game pulls off one, single impressive feat, and it's of managing to incorporate 
 the randomized environments familiar to players of the Diablo series. However, the amazement dwindles 
 rather rapidly, as if the tiling rules are spot-on and keep London's blasted streets, subways and 
 sewers realistically designed, the degree of visual variety is rather paltry. After seeing the 
 same dilapidated three-story apartment building with the same three holes in the ground and the 
 same bed on the second floor about thirty times, the Scorched Earth effect starts to wear off and 
 you inexorably stop caring about the level design. At its core, the game tries to convey a blasted, 
 ruined metropolis, but reusing the same storefronts and ruined double-decker buses ruins the initial 
 atmospheric quality rather quickly.
  
  That's not to say the game's atmosphere is all wrong, however. As in previous hack-and-slash games, 
 there's a certain element of tension that does remain, as you never quite know what type of enemy 
 you're going to face next, or if the surrounding terrain will be favourable to you. Unfortunately, 
 that type of tension is purely of the operational sort, and doesn't "suck you in", as you might 
 say. You never quite feel like you're part of the world, and your character remains precisely that: 
 a "toon", to use the ARPG jargon, that's nothing more than your demon-slaying intermediary and 
 not an alternate persona. Granted, Hellgate doesn't strive to be a bona fide role-playing game. 
 It's, yet again, little more than a mindless grindfest. If you're considering buying this offering 
 on the basis that it has RPG elements, don't fool yourself. Go and give The Witcher a whirl, instead. 
 This ain't no Fallout, either.
  
  What would a PC game be, nowadays, without a multiplayer element? Even a game that is designed 
 at its core to be a solo experience simply has to cater to the online junkies among us, lately. 
 I've heard several people claim, concerning various games, that they simply weren't worth it if 
 there was no multiplayer. For what it's worth, the single-player campaign is solid, but the multiplayer 
 currently greatly outshines the former. Unfortunately, it's not because it brings anything additional 
 or refreshing to the table, but because it's simply much more stable and easy to patch than the 
 single-player version. Considering this, don't be surprised if, in the middle of a structure that's 
 reminiscent of Guild Wars, absolutely nobody is playing cooperatively. I do know, however, that 
 partying with other players grants you with additional experience, tougher monsters and increased 
 loot. For that matter, each performed kill grants you your own instanced loot, so the days of old 
 disputes over a Stone of Jordan in Diablo II are long gone. Simply siphon everything in with your 
 F key and break down what you don't intend to use. Dismantled items can later be used to create 
 other items, or to upgrade existing ones, both online and offline.
  
  Unfortunately, I've saved the worst for last. If you purchase this game, prepare yourself for the 
 birth of an ongoing love-hate relationship with it, and not because of the points mentioned above. 
 As of the time of this writing, Flagship Studios' auto-patching system is ridiculously flawed, 
 while the multiplayer component updates flawlessly. The result is the formation of a growing chasm 
 between the relative quality of your single-player and multiplayer experiences. 
  
  While the former is generally stable and runs smoothly on any machine up to four years old, the 
 latter is still plagued with crippling particle effects-related lag and bad sectorization. This 
 is mostly likely the result of abusive RAM use and is said to be fixed with the latest patch, but 
 any visit to Flagship's forums (registration required) will show that updating the single-player 
 portion has turned into an arduous undertaking, a Calvary Road that is currently ignored by the 
 developers. Promises have been made to deliver a standard executable patch in response to the flawed 
 auto-patching process. Two weeks have passed since the release of the game and no progress has 
 been witnessed in this area.
  
  What does that give us? A game that effectively replicates the Diablo series' addictive formula, 
 but wraps this engaging gameplay in a bland visual treatment and with a mantle of several small, 
 if frustrating issues. The multiplayer portion has by far the most potential but as of this writing 
 and considering the poor quality of the single-player component, very little team play can be witnessed. 
 Guilds have formed and people have applied for the controversial subscription fee, but even it 
 has turned into background noise in the face of the game's numerous shortcomings.
  
  Considering all this, can it still live up to Diablo II's legacy? Right now, no. Given a few years 
 and several patching efforts, possibly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikokingNL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game has minor glithes and some time its weird but man that RPG feeling in the game with the 
 gun character is great. I mean the other characters a great to but the gun wurks great. So it gives 
 a really addictive gameplay that can suck you up for a really long time it looks really really 
 really cool. Though its sometime not as good as at the great time. But you should surely try this 
 game if you like an good RPG game with guns. And its pretty addictive but you'll be able to play 
 Call Of Duty 4 or Halo 3 or orange box while playing this game. You should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunman710
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  First off, there are problems with this game. It has a freezing problem with direct x 10. However, 
 this can be easily fixed by changing the setting to directx 9 so it really isn't that big of a 
 deal. Many people have stated that the game is too action packed and I strongly disagree. I think 
 it is just right. There will be times where you will be cornered for by at least 20 enemies and 
 will have to fight you way through endless amounts of enemies. I believe that is part of the overall 
 charm of the game is I feel that I am fighting literally through waves and waves of enemies to 
 get to my goal. Not only that but there are some pretty amazing looking enemies which many times 
 you will find yourself running away in panic from these behemoths and attempting to take them out 
 from long range. The online game plays a lot like Guild Wars with the coop settings and is a blast 
 to play through with friends. Getting a group together and running through the streets of London 
 taking down armies of enemies is nothing short of an adrenaline rush. In my opinion the only bad 
 part of the game is the story. The first cut scene really brings you in and gets you ready for 
 an awesome story and it almost seems like it isn't there. However, the game makes up for that with 
 humorous dialogue throughout the game. There are so many random quests that if you actually read 
 through the text you will find yourself chuckling if not laughing at some of the dumb reasons why 
 you are collecting items. Overall I think Hellgate is worth the money and did not get enough attention 
 as it should have. Let's face it this is basically Diablo 3 and it is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bane6667
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  
  So now Hellgate is finally out and when i look at other reviews they say i got crashes and major 
 bugs no it isnt like that
  
  gameplay: you have six classes to choose from with all very unique skills the battle is hard at 
 first but you'll get used to it. The gameplay is very fun and addicting but until lvl 10 to 20 
 enviros will be repetitive but actions hectic and fun.
  
  graphics: graphics look nice with weapons and items shining or the shading and lighting is very 
 nice might have to tune graphics down cause action plus beautiful graphics = your computer overheats
 
  
  sound: awesome zombies screaming swords clinging demons dieing. end of story
  
  value: i played this game for little bit over 30 hours now and i still want to play that game.
 
  
  cons: go up to minor crashes [if yo don't take my advice from graphics] maps repetitive from lvl 
 10 to 20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elvarsteinn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London is a prime example of a PC game shipped before it's ready, its extemely bug-ridden 
 and seems to lack overall polish. As such you may want to wait a while before buying (patches are 
 being published every other day almost) and focus on more polished titles coming out this busy 
 fall for PC gamers.
  
  That said, Hellgate: London is an amazingly addictive game, and the reason is simple: it's core 
 gameplay, once you look past the bugs and the silly storyline, is simply put the best of the Hack'n'Slash 
 genre so far. If you, like me, were a Diablo fanatic back in the day, you'll appreciate the depth 
 and detail given to the item system, which beats any other diablo-clone's system so far easily. 
 The item generation (and gathering) is well balanced and keeps you striving for more, and the combat 
 system (especially for Melee classes at the moment, in my opinion) is great, albeit bugged for 
 the ranged classes thus far. I personally have great fun whirlwinding through hordes of demons, 
 with a killrate approaching 3-4 mobs a second, its just... a blast.
  
  So the gameplay is great and will only get better with bug fixes, but what of the rest? That's 
 where the negative aspects of the game shine. Although the graphics and sound are good enough, 
 even great for higher end machines (dx10 helps, but is not really worth the performance drop at 
 the moment) , the level design - or more precisely: the randomized level system, doesn't really 
 work out that well. The game's advertising puts a LOT of emphasize on its replayability (Diablo 
 anyone?) but it simply falls short of my expectations. Like numerous people have pointed out, despite 
 never actually being the exact same layout, levels almost always look and feel exactly the same.
 
  
  If you're looking for a compelling story in a game, this one's story will surely disappoint you 
 as well. The cinematics portraying it are amazingly cool and well made and after the starting one 
 you'll be starting to think this story 'will be something!' but alas, the NPC's telling you it 
 are silly and the story itself even more so. But then again, in the long run a game like this isn't 
 made to tell a great story, it's simply made to provide a time killing and addicting gameplay.
 
  
  And that's what it does, despite its numerous flaws and gazillion bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London was hyped from the moment it was announced and now it has been released. Has this 
 game lived up to the hype? All I can say is you'd have to make that determination for yourself, 
 my personal opinion is yes. Hellgate London lives up to the hype and then some. For starters this 
 game is very addictive. With gameplay reminiscent of Diablo 2 and a storyline that is interesting 
 and new it's hard not to get addicted. I guess that's not so surprising though when you think of 
 the fact that Flagship Studios is mostly comprised of members of the Diablo development team. The 
 games cutscenes are very well done with excellent voice acting and beautifully rendered graphics. 
 The in game graphics are a nice piece of post apocalyptic artistry. Even though the graphics aren't 
 spectacular they are very well done. The biggest draw to the game is the hack n slash / run and 
 gun style of gameplay. With large indoor and outdoor environments and lots of critters to stomp 
 into oblivion there is no shortage of things to do. The quests are nicely done with the NPCs giving 
 you just enough information to get them done without leaving you wandering around completely lost. 
 The quest log is easy to read and even gives you the ability to place the quests in the HUD for 
 quick reference. The skill tree is easy to use and gives you enough information to adequately choose 
 what skills will work best with your style of gameplay. The character information display is very 
 easy to figure out and leveling up is a breeze. Unfortunately inventory management can be a bit 
 tedious due to the lack of a sort button. The game gives you six character classes to choose from 
 and more than enough character slots to make one of each. You can choose from Templars (Blademaster 
 and Guardian) , Hunters (Engineers and Marksmen) , and Cabalists (Evokers and Summoners) . Each class 
 has their own special abilities and skill sets that make them different from the other classes. 
 Character creation is simple with a ton of options for customizing your characters' appearance 
 as well. The game offers both a single player mode as well as a multiplayer mode. If you choose 
 to play the multiplayer mode you can play online for free or if you choose you can purchase a subscription 
 to get extra online content. Overall this game gives you loads of options and a lot of gameplay. 
 If you complete the game on normal mode then you can play it again on elite mode or nightmare mode. 
 Hellgate London is extremely fun and well worth playing even if you only play it in single player 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kovacz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  Playing Hellgate: London is like kissing an ex-girlfriend. You liked her once but you do it for 
 being polite because it's her birthday and you are still friends :) 
  
  It's easily one of most anticipated Diablo successor to date and, to my disappointment, a total 
 failure at doing so. Levels you are playing on are boring and washed-out most of the time, combat 
 is not engaging and is nothing to look at, quests are boring and repetitive - kill x of that and 
 return kind of quests that just don't suck you into the lore, loot is same looking and not rewarding 
 for itself, need for money being collected is non-existent as you only need to buy med-packs and 
 analyzer things really and so on. In the game of stick and carrot, there's silmply no carrot here! 
 
  
  On the other hand, game does provide for occasional fun-time, in one of those rare bug-free runs. 
 And when I say bug-free, it's really hard to achieve with this game. Things like: disappearing 
 party members (makes you wanna cry and quit the game like nothing else) , memory issues (leaks and 
 so forth) crashing the game in few hours and often even less than an hour per session if you're 
 lucky, unique items without statistics on them, bad UI design, unfinishable quests and so on.. 
 I think I just scratched the surface really. Did I mention just plain, old random crash that happens 
 on occasion? Yeah, classics never die :)
  
  So, for good points I'd say the monsters you fight against are quite fun to mutilate and kill which 
 is always a good thing and never gets old really, some of NPCs are almost amusing, the idea of 
 it all is actually pretty ok.
  In fact, if the game was given 6 more months at least to polish and remove all the bugs, I'd give 
 it 9.0+ score probably as while it lasted was pretty much fun to play.
  
  Also, if you are into single-player kind of gaming, this might be something to look forward too 
 as most of the bugs don't matter in that mode and can be quite enjoyable.
  
  All in all, a big let down for me and hence the mediocre score. Shame, just shame this happened. 
 I'll also say I requested a refund for this one as I don't want supporting this kind of practice 
 some of the developers seem to condone these days. 
  
  That's just unacceptable and firms like that should go bankrupt immediately, what I guess will 
 happen to FSS after this fiasco they produced because of money shortage/hunger (don't know and 
 don't want to know) . Big exlamation mark for other developers out there who think they can do such 
 things! I must mention a blunt dishonesty expressed by FSS developers and Bill Roper himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PJonas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off on a buggy tutorial system, as its very hard to read so quickly. Once you get 
 into the game it becomes apparent that alot of Diablo has been used for the basis of this game 
 with alot of added bells and whistles. The graphics are ok, and the sound aswell. Guns however 
 don't have the kick in terms of sound and affect that we need. It soffers from the same problem 
 that Doom 3 did with its sounds, melee weapons are fine. 
  
  The game itself if buggy as enemies have the tendency to dissapear as they jump at you. But this 
 becomes a small problem as the action heats up. Another important thing is that you must not buy 
 this game for the story, as its not very well conveyed. The main story unfolds via the quest system 
 and lacks originality. So it becomes very hard to care about the story, BUT if you buy this game 
 to build up a character that can kick serious butt, then you will be very pleased. The randomization 
 works very well for unique character creation. And this is why you must play this game if Hack 
 and Slash are your thing then HL is your game.
  
  Graphically the game is dissapointing in terms of peformance, using a E6750 and 2gig ram, on a 
 X1900 512mb this game lags in some areas and it should not as I see nothing special in terms of 
 graphics, as the crysis demo ryns beautifully on High on my machine this game should not...
  
  Worth the money if you loved Diablo and Hack And Slash RPG... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shellafee
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Well First off i have to say i was a die hard diablo fan. So when i found out that the people that 
 made that game made this one i had to have it. I have been playing now for well over 100 hr of 
 play time and i still can not put the mouse down, But i could not tell you why. The game has so 
 many bugs if this was any other game i would have stopped playing 75 hrs ago. Hellgate as you know 
 is a game of kill and finding new things for you to use so you can kill more things.
  The main story line alone i would give a 3/10 along with most of the quest you have to do. After 
 about 2-4 hrs of playing you have for the most part done just about everything you are going to 
 do. The rest of the time it is just the same thing over again with a different paint job. With 
 the story line so poor the only real thing you keep playing for is to see how powerful you can 
 get. but with the bugs that i see right now you are never going to get very powerful. Being able 
 to mod you gear is the biggest pain right now because of all the bugs. the tools you use just don't 
 work right IMO. 
  
  You can play this game on or off line. I have been playing most of the time off line. getting into 
 group and doing some mass killing can be fun if you can find people that have a clue what they 
 are doing. But the MMO part of it is very lacking with the only benefit of faster killing an being 
 able to share the loot you find. As far as the $10 a most pay form of the game. I thing it is a 
 wast of money. For what you get for your $10 it just is not worth it. For only $5 more you can 
 play WOW. 
  
  I will have to say the game can look really nice, If you have a pc that will run it right. I have 
 a very high end pc but run dx9 and can not run the game in the best settings with out having my 
 fps drop to 0 if there are to many things going on. 
  
  
  In the end i have to say the game can be fun... kinda. most people will hate the game because of 
 the bugs. One can only hope and pray they fix them. so for now i will have to give the game a 5/10 
 but if they do fix the bugs Hellgate London can easily be a 8/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipershot527
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to Hellgate London for a little less then a year now for two reasons. 
 The first being i was hoping to get into RPGs for the first time because it encompassed FPS with 
 the RPG. Second is because the game was talked about by numerous sites and such for having so much 
 potential. Unfortunately for me Hellgate fell short, way short of my expectations for it. It is 
 a pretty entertaining game at points but to be honest it just wasnt enough to make it great like 
 it should have been. The regular RPG basis is there, level up as you go through the mission, get 
 all sorts of cool gear and weapons. And the premise for the game was pretty cool as well. gate 
 to hell opening in London and the humans have to go into hiding and then fight back. But the graphics 
 seem like they are a little last year, the physics, controls and game play all around are quite 
 dated. There was almost nothing original the game offered that we haven't seen time and time again. 
 Sure it used directx 10, but the execution of it was nothing fantastic, in fact there are a ton 
 of directx 9 games that look and play a lot better then Hellgate. The whole randomly generated 
 level idea was pretty cool too but the exection again sucked. Id like to know why when i go back 
 to an area I've already been to it has changed completely in lay out. How is that realistic? I 
 mean when i come back home after work the rooms in my house arn't in different places... it just 
 makes no sense at all. I mean common, think about it. All in all I would not buy this game, it 
 wasn't a complete waste of money but it certainly wasn't worth the 50 bucks i paid for it. It entertains 
 but it is nothing special..... at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8a8ji8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  levels are repetitive , monsters are repetitive, quests are repetitive, LAME story, I found myself 
 runing felling that i was copleting the same quest over and over again.
  The AI is weak, monster see you= monster attack you, voice acting is ok (feels like actors are 
 trying to be funny) , inventory is too small you'll find yourself dismantelling useless gear quite 
 often (good for upgrading) .
  character feels generic no sence of acomplishment when finishing quests, all NPC's are generic 
 and void of any depth (I cannot remember the names of these characters) , everything in this game 
 is TOO expensive no chance to make money... doesnt make sence your character is saving the world 
 and they charge you money... obscene amounts of money
  On the plus side: graphis are nice (steap PC power needed) ,the atmosphere is gloomy and in by 
 itself tell a story ( where you see destroyed tanks and other vehicles, abandoned military outposts, 
 quarintine gates and so on) the monsters look scary and fleshy and have cool powers, upgrading 
 your gear is cool but tedious... the music is very good, most monster sounds are excelent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrus_fq
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London, should be a great game...
  I' m personally calling it Hellgate: Bug
  
  The BAD:
  - This game is full of bugs
  - The support don't help anything
  - I wait 2 patches 
 before sell it to another guy, and nothing was repaired
  - Cause error with my driver, alllow me to play about 2 -5 minutes without my computer crash.
 
  - Shoot system is ridiculous, that make look your character is almost blind
  - Didn't I already tell about the bugs?
  - It's really don't looks like Diablo, call it "New 
 Diablo" sounds like a offense to Diablo.
  - Will be better if they stop distributing this game and wait more time before release it again... 
 Without bugs and a game playable.
  - Computer AI dissapointed.
  - It's performance problems really made me cry
  
  The GOOD:
  - Nice items, weapon, armor...
 
  - Awesome graphics
  - Good history
  
  thanks for attention... 
  
  ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agarthi
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This may have been passable, in the 90s, the game lacks any content, the environments are terrible, 
 looking at a building you only see its front end, look up and you notice the buildings only consist 
 of a single wall.
  
  Weapons have no feel to them, and it feels as if you are looking at everything through some kind 
 of strange warping tunnel vision, turning in place as something nears the center of the screen 
 it moves way out, then moves close as it comes to the side.
  
  Requires a subscription for things that are commonplace in other games, have to pay to have a guild/clan? 
 or access to harder difficulty levels, this is a joke right?
  
  Graphics-wise, character models are just terrible, i mean terrible, when holding a gun which you 
 will do for all of the game it looks like your right arm is made of paper and is bent 30 sorts 
 of weird. hate to say it, they should have made a top down game.
  
  In closing looking for a diablo type game, buy Titan quest, unless you like big letdowns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keycodewanted
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is what its cracked up to be let me get to the point its a free game but you can subscribe 
 if your a veteran of online games this will be great for you if your new its a good start every 
 things awesome the wepons there are 6 classes mainly the templar but their are others but you have 
 to play the game to find it out anyway even if you finish the game you can go up to level 50 if 
 you subscribe you can go above and you can quite if you dont want to pay i think every things good 
 i just love getting new wepons and guns thers over 50 different monsters to fight and over 100 
 wepons and skills its like oblivion and guild wars except a bit better i must addimit the story 
 is very weird you cant understand what your doing except kill deamons the enviroment comes from 
 the tube tunnels to downing street above and i must say it again its awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenei_zsolt
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  It was an incredible experience that made me uninstall the game!!! I have played a lot of games 
 and a lot of them had bugs but this is going too far...
  I was about level 26 when you get a stupid quest that in my case ruined the whole game experience. 
 I had to find 3 heavy train parts to fix the train to escort the remaining templar... well that 
 was the story anyway because i never got to finish it... there where epic monsters i got spanked 
 so i choose to revive at Temple Station to upgrade my weapons (marksman class) a bit after getting 
 two of the parts. All is well, i went back to get the 3rd part but when i do there is no quest 
 update and the item remains in my inventory, and there is no way in Hell that i can drop it!!! 
 Very nice... as well as with the "power cells" that you have to create from monster remains... i 
 killed to many monsters, created to many power cell like items, (sorry i didn't thought its important 
 to remember the exact name :) ) and i could not drop them... very nice!!! My stash was full of quest 
 items that i could not drop at one time, and that's when i sad ENOUGH!!! 
  If there is something that i have done wrong or i didn't do pls e-mail me to tell me how stupid 
 i am at jenei_zsolt@yahoo. com There are a lot of positives about the game but this bug butchered 
 them all. I really flipped! Thanks for reading my review, i hope that someone from Flagshi'p' reads 
 it too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_hellscream
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  I imagine most of you will rate this review based on the fact that I did give it a 9.0, but the 
 problems in this game are the same as any other and I've seen them time and time again! Every information 
 in this review is based on my thoughts/actions alone, and these may not happen to others or be 
 the same views.
  
  Single player:
  1. Extremely easy... my chars are Blademaster (8) and Summoner (9) , I haven't died once on either 
 char but the Blademaster has had a close call once or twice.
  2. It doesn't have any known bugs to me
  3. You seem to get more drops in single player
  4. 
 You don't have to put up with the people who spam the town chat!
  
  Multi-player:
  1. Easy but not as easy as single, some of the bosses can be a pain, my brother and I are playing 
 together he has a blademaster (8) and I have a engineer (8) (I will try to update when my oldest 
 brother starts playing also)
  2. Extremely Buggy, all of the bugs are sometimes there but most of the time you are fine - 
 
  Make sure you note that the bugs are SOMETIMES!
  
  Visuals: Your char disappears to your friends/family in your 'instance', your weapons will disappear, 
 your char will keep attacking to others.
  Game play: Your portals from town to the battle field will not work, you you won't be able to pick 
 up items.
  
  3. Higher Quality drops from bosses but the bosses can be a pain at times (we've died twice, both 
 times were to bosses) .
  4. High lvl'd people feel the need to stand in lvl 6-9 area 'towns', who knows why =/.
  5. You 
 can play with friends/family.
  6. Guilds are avail. to subscribers but you have to fork out 10k, which is impossible at lower 
 levels.
  
  Also please note that the game is in the 'new born' stages of its existence and yes it will have 
 its extremely bad points but the game has its good points, just like every multi/single play game. 
 If your tight on money or you don't like fueling a game that doesn't give much back don't subscribe 
 YET, let them release 'good' content and then decide if you want to subscribe. If you throw money 
 around like you don't need it then go ahead and subscribe (remember your the ones fueling the content 
 releases) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Straegen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Putting the bugs aside, this is one of the better games of its kind to come down the pipe. This 
 game is a simply great game buried under too many bugs. Comapred to Dungeon Siege or Diablo style 
 games this one is easily more feature rich and certainly prettier. It has a Resident Evil feel 
 which a lot of reviewers leave out. They decided not to show monsters on the radar of the game 
 and many of these monsters blend in or hide around corners making many of the classes play like 
 a true quality first person shooter. Other classes in the game play with a more typical run in 
 heroic style so you get a lot of mileage between classes in the game none of which seem overly 
 gimped. The skill tree is limiting in a good way and leveling is brisk but not too much so. Questing 
 can get repetive but if you like playing poker, slots or blackjack then seeing a boss or rare monster 
 can turn an ordinary map into something special with the loot drops. There isn't much to criticize 
 in the controls, graphics are quality and over all game play is great.
  
  The downside... the bugs. Whew this game is very crash prone as well as having numerous gameplay 
 bugs. Also, it is another game that installs SecureROM so they basically threw gas on a fire with 
 that decision. I am not sure at what point game compaines are going to realize that using SecureROM 
 POS is a bad idea but I wish they would hurry up. Other downsides include random mapping while 
 good is repetitive, but no more so than most of the other games in the genre. You would think with 
 all the complaining about this it was isolated to this game. Diablo style games all pretty much 
 share this issue. The only odd thing about this one is when you first start playing the areas feel 
 unique so I believe people become more dissappointed with the randomness down the line. My big 
 ding on this game is a huge gap in teaching players about the game. There is so much to do and 
 a lot of it isn't obvious. The mini-game alone is a fantastic addition that isn't mentioned in 
 the game manual or a tutorial in the game. You have to figure it out. 
  
  Give this game a chance if not right now in a couple months when a lot of the bugs are worked out. 
 There is a real gem of a game hiding in here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Gamespot reviewer Gertsmann didn't seem to understand what kind of game Hellgate: London is supposed 
 to be -- and judging from the various cranky reader posts, neither did a bunch of other people.
 
  
  Gertsmann's statement: 
  
 This storyline plays out the same way whether you play offline or online, which essentially means 
 that the offline mode is useless." 
  
  sums up exactly how badly he misunderstood the game he was playing.
  
  So, for those of you 
 trying to decide whether or not to spend your PC gaming budget on Hellgate: London, let's clear 
 up a few things.
  
  1. Hellgate: London is not a no-fee MMORPG like Guild Wars. It's a single-player RPG with the option 
 to play out sections of the single-player story in free online multiplayer with a group.
  
  It's not World of WarCraft; it's not Guild Wars; it's not "MMO Doom". It's a single-player RPG 
 you can also play (or re-play) online if you so choose.
  
  We clear on this? :-)
  
  I was surprised that the reviewer, and several readers here, didn't seem to know what they were 
 buying. All the advertising, interviews, and other media I saw, made this pretty clear. 
  
  Maybe public relations was handled differently in different regions, but I never expected Hellgate: 
 London was going to be a Guild Wars style free MMORPG. It surprises me that so many people -- especially 
 the Gamespot reviewer here -- seemed to expect this.
  
  
  2. Hellgate: London's gameplay mechanics follow those of the Diablo series to the letter.
  
 
  The overhead camera view has been swapped out for an MMO-like third-person or first-person (your 
 choice, via mouse-wheel) character view; the game has a science-fantasy, instead of a gothic-fantasy 
 storyline, and the graphics are profoundly improved -- but Hellgate: London's gameplay is structured 
 identically to that of the Diablo RPG games.
  
  You start in a safe area (where there are necessary things like healers, merchants, and so forth) 
 and then you take quests and side-quests from NPCs which take you out to dangerous areas.
  
  Just like the Diablo games (and recent Diablo knock-off games like Titan Quest) you gain access 
 to personal teleporters very early on, so trudging between the quest areas and the safe areas is 
 never really an issue.
  
  The gameplay of Hellagate: London (like the Diablo games, and games like Titan Quest) is action 
 and loot oriented, with enough story to get you saying "just ... one ... more ... mission!"
  
  Given that a bunch of the people working on the Hellgate: London game used to work on the Diablo 
 series (something which has been widely publicized) , it shouldn't surprise so many people that 
 this game plays more like a graphically-revamped and improved Diablo game (or Titan Quest) than 
 an MMORPG such as Guild Wars or World of WarCraft.
  
  Hellgate: London lets you replay parts of its single-player story online, for free, with friends 
 -- exactly like all the Diablo games did. 
  
  The fact that reviewer Gertsmann didn't tweak to what Hellgate: London's online aspect was supposed 
 to be -- when the Diablo connection for Hellgate has been widely publicized -- makes me wonder 
 if he was the right man for the review.
  
  Yes, the online play aspect of Hellgate: London is buggy as hell right now, and definitely needs 
 some tweaks and improvements -- but developer Flagship knows this already, and is patching in improvements 
 as I write this.
  
  Console gamers used to XBox Live don't seem to understand that the only way to really tune and 
 correct a PC game's live aspect is to go live -- to see what's wrong under real-world conditions, 
 and then patch as fast as you can. Even beta-testing can't prepare you for the crush of people 
 playing your game online for free.
  
  So -- if the idea of a Diablo-influenced science-fantasy single-player RPG sounds interesting to 
 you, download the demo and give it a try. You'll probably enjoy the optional online play too (once 
 they get all the bugs worked out) -- provided you're not expecting some sort of free MMORPG, the 
 way the Gamespot reviewer did.
  
  I really enjoy Hellgate: London a lot -- but then, I always knew what I was buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auctionmydog
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short.
  
  The combat in Hellgate london is extremely repetitive. You can enjoy firing at hordes and hordes 
 of zombies that often look the same in a vain attempt to have the best gear.
  
  Imagine the Diablo II grind, but without the polish. Technical glitches make the game almost unplayable. 
 The combat feels awkward. Playing this game is a chore.
  
  The only way to explain the horror of playing HGL (and it's not the demons that are scary) is through 
 imagery. Imagine playing doom for the first time. Except the demons keep on coming and coming. 
 Oh wait, the demons keep on sitting and sitting until you attack them, and you are expected to 
 keep shooting at them mindlessly. The demons often have HP, which makes the point and click an 
 even longer experience - as you watch fluffy special effects explode on demon 44,864. The graphics 
 of doom, the gameplay of everquest. It's painful, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcisse2121
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  The gameplay and storyline are actually quite good but all the problems that come with it make 
 it almost unenjoyable. After release it took almost a week and a half for EA to address a serious 
 flaw with their downloader which prevented customers from even installing the game. My last review 
 stating this FACT was deleted by a moderator for supposed trolling but too bad, I calls em as I 
 sees em, if you have a problem with criticism of EA maybe you bought stock in the wrong company.
 
  
  The game itself is a very good mix of rpg and live action, the good vs. evil element never gets 
 old. All in all a very good game but having it crash almost hourly due to something called memory 
 exhaustion is more than annoying and there are enough graphical glitches to seal the low rating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eckstona
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Repetitive, buggy 5.0
  
  I rated this as hard difficulty. This is because if you make a gimped character, the only thing 
 you can do is restart the game.
  
  The gameplay does have that addictive quality. However, this is one of the few good qualities it 
 has.
  
  The game is easy to learn. You start of with a weapon and a basic skill. Learning to use those 
 is not difficult. After that its a matter of incorporating a few new skills or weapons into your 
 play style. It will take about 5 minutes to pick up the controls.
  
  The game play is very repetitive. You will find yourself spamming the same spells over and over. 
 This might have been less so if the game allowed multiclassing, respec or some similar device.
 
  
  A respec would have been very nice. Sometimes you will unlock a new tier just to find out that 
 your current skill tree are redundant or that you spread you skill points to thin.
  
  Basically, a gate to Hell opens in London. Thats it, that the whole story. A gate opens to Hell 
 and running around killing X amount of some monster and/or getting Y amount of some item will help 
 save the world, apparently.
  
  If you enjoy WoW type quests, I think you may enjoy this game.
  
  Occasionally, my framerate 
 would slow to as low as 1 frame per second. Even though I run the game at a constant 75 (its locked 
 here) FPS.
  
  Another frustrating bug is sometime enemies will become unable to attack, to get damaged, etc. 
 They still chase you and still TRY to attack, but they do no damage. Its not uncommon to have 5 
 or more invincible, undamaging enmies chasing after you at once.
  
  And besides all of this, after a few hours, you will see what is essentially the same levels thrown 
 at you again and again. This is due to the four recycled tile sets. Every single level uses one 
 of these.
  
  There is a decent amount of enemies to kill. This makes the combat somewhat less monotonous.
 
  
  Graphics: Decent and well optimized 7.5
  
  Despite the occasional glitch, the graphics are nice and rather well optimizied. However, the rest 
 of this game makes looking favorably upon the graphics difficult.
  
  There are only four different tile sets in this game. If its not obvious, they are recycled heavily. 
 Sometimes you get lucky and will have a unique level thrown at you. In my 15 or so hours of play, 
 this has only happened once.
  
  Sound: Nothing great 6.0
  Like most of this game, the main theme is lacking. 
  The ranged weapons don't sound as bad ass 
 as they should. The spell sounds are adequate, nowhere near great, mind you. The swords sound pretty 
 cool.
  
  Value: 5.0 
  I could not recommend buying this game. Maybe a year from now when you have nothing to play and 
 its $10 in the bargain bin. But now its just not worth the $50.
  
  After considering the game as a whole, I recommend you look elsewhere. Titan Quest is still a fun 
 game and Titan Quest Gold came out just last week. It includes the expansion and OC. Or why not 
 launch Diablo again? Dungeon Runners is another Diablo style game, but its a real MMORPG. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rembrandthc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  If you have techical Problems with this game then I do understand your frustration...
  
  You have to have a MACHINE to run THIS game...!
  
  No MOUSE PC'S need to apply. DirectX10 is 
 STRONGLY Suggested!
  
  This Game reminds me VERY strongly of: Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines (PC) 
  
  You either 
 Love it or hate it....!
  
  I sorta have to be in the Mood for this game.
  
  Yeah it gets repetitve, but never really BORING..., there's always some wierd Demon, or PACKS of 
 Demons gnawing on your behind...!
  
  I personally like the MELEE Fighting Characters, like the Defender or the Swordsmaster, since you'll 
 get to be in the midts of of the Furball...!
  
  If you have Tech Probs... exit the Game and restart it. It does help.
  
  Live long and Prosper... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yenkin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  After reading the reviews I decided to give the game a try. After about 15 hours of play I am pretty 
 convinced that there is some great potential in the game. 
  
  While the concept is really not that new, we have seen wolfenstien, diablo, quake and other games 
 over the years. This one just updates the concepts mix's in some good looking graphics, put it 
 in a post apocolyptic setting add some monsters, some cool toys and away you go.
  
  I am playing on my P4 3.2 ghz with 1gig ram and 256 geForce card I have not noticed any issues 
 in game except for a bit of lag in the Multiplayer when I hit a busy station with other players. 
 I can live with that, not near the problem I remember when DDO came online.
  
  The interface could use some work, the mouse controls your basic right to left sweeping motion 
 and you move with the basic W, A, S, D keys. This makes hitting the quick skill keys a bit of an 
 issue. But the good news that the monsters don't jump around to much so you do have time.
  
  But if you are looking for some fun monster stomping this game will give that to you. Its all 
 about the toys. There is some truth to the fact that he who has the most toys wins.
  
  Harry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jevulen
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London. As an oldschool Diablo- and D2X-player I had my hopes up for this game, thinking 
 it would be a decent enough predecessor to my elderly loved ones. Man was I wrong.
  
  The grindpart of the game is executed flawlessly, you can find alot of stuff, and upgrade them 
 however you damn well please, and then you'll keep on going on to find even better stuff than the 
 stuff you already found. Neat, spot on diablostyle. The problem however is that in Diablo, even 
 if after a while you didn't really pay attention to the environment, it was still there in it's 
 grand glory, sucking you in. Making you feel as if you really are the last hope the world has. 
 You are all alone in a dark dungeon slaughtering your way through to the big boss, people speak 
 in Diablo.
  
  In Hellgate you dont get sucked in by the narrow corridors, sure they look nice and all, but something 
 doesn't make you get the same feel. The story and dialogue aren't in spoken dialogue, they're written. 
 Which basically means that you read the first two quests, realising the questdescription is silly, 
 and borderline stupid that you then just accept all other quests without actually giving a hoot 
 about what it is you have to do.
  
  The game is also a buginfested mess.
  Even so, the graphics are ok. The audio "good enough".
  
  There's a good mix of characterclasses, 
 summoner-styled ones, bladeswingers, tankers and even marksmen for the FPS-players out there. Swinging 
 blades is however a big bore, and the buginess of the game removes alot of fun from being a marksman.
 
  
  So in short, this game is decent enough to play if you like the grindaspects of Diablo or even 
 World of Warcraft, if you like a game with any sort of decent story that is bugfree, and that has 
 enviroments that sucks you in I suggest you investigate a bargainbin and pick up Diablo II + expansion, 
 or go back to playing World of Warcraft. Or wait with buying this game for like half a year when 
 the bugs possibly have been ironed out, and it has the chance of being decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktb1356
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. Rather, I *want* to like this game. I've already invested a number of hours already 
 leveling my character to 15 but enough is enough. There are just way too many bugs getting in the 
 way of what could be a very entertaining and long lived game. It is very unstable, and crashes 
 more often than not -- the only game in my vast library to give me this much trouble. About every 
 two hours, like clockwork, I get "memory exhausted, application will now close" and it just shuts 
 down. I have 2GB of system ram, and over 1GB of video ram. Online multiplayer, although fun for 
 grouping with friends, is too laggy in peak times to be enjoyable. Rather, it's a frustration all 
 in itself. If they fix the bugs and crashes, I will go back to playing it. Right now, it's going 
 to sit on my shelf instead of being installed on my hard drive. Overall, Hellgate London is a disappointing 
 effort after all the years of hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexpka
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has many advantages and disadvantages. First of all the game is highly addictive just 
 like Diablo II (2) was. But this game has many glitches. makes it seem unrealistic since you can 
 walk through some objects explosions don't look too real. There isn't alot of effects on shooting... 
 what i mean is that the shooting gets repetitive and boring sometimes and its like playing the 
 game over and over again since most of the levels looks the same. This game is a great time killer 
 since its so addictive. Graphics aren't as good as i expected it to be. But it seems good enough 
 since it already lags on my 7950 gx2 on max while fighting more then 10 monsters in a large area... 
 This game is a must for all diablo fans since its the same killing and blowing up daemons concept. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London is a great action-rpg (with fps elements in some cases) that brings a refreshing 
 touch to the rpg scene. If you played Diablo (and i'm sure you did ) this game will seem a futuristic 
 improved version of that instant classic. 
  
  The story starts impressivemwith a incredible cinematic, but the game looses touch with the story 
 after a few minutes. I must say the game starts in an attractive way bringing you into the universe 
 , but as you step in you lose sight of the story and the wolrd and focus on killing endless hordes 
 of demons and collecting tones of items. 
  
  The game-play is simple and fun, but has minor bugs and it tends to be ridiculously difficult when 
 facing boss-like creatures, but no worry you can't die: you either resurrect (and you pay some 
 "gold") or you can become ghost and respawn at the entrance to the area . 
  
  Th graphics is great. If you have a good video card you will enjoy the visual, even if there are 
 other games the are better at this chapter.
  
  The sounds are probably the best things about this game, not because their are extraordinary but 
 bcause they don't have any problems so you can't pick on them.
  
  There are some interesting mini-games and diferent types of missions that bring some originality 
 but are poorly developed and last to little.
  
  Overall the game is above averege but you need to lower your standards a bit to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing more satisfying in a shooter than a one shot kill. Which is why I think I am liking 
 the marksman class so well. My play time has been limited thus far this week to a few hours here 
 and there and I am still getting the "lay of London" so to speak, but I have reached level 9 and 
 level 5 or 6 on many many alts. The game is just too much fun not to test the waters on other classes, 
 especially engineers with their bots.
  
  (/sarcasm on) Before I get into the party aspect of the game, lets talk about in game advertising 
 and the fact that some said it would ruin their game or make it a no purchase. Well its terrible 
 let me tell ya. Yup, its so bad I had to look real hard to find it. Posters on a subway wall. Posters 
 on a subway wall for Mythos, Nvidia, and some other stuff that only Europeans would understand. 
 My game is now ruined forever. Because we all know that in 2007 human beings would never put posters 
 on subway walls (/sarcasm off) .
  
  Make liberal use of grenade throws by rebounding them off walls and I also use my trusty napalm 
 strike. My gun is fully modded out now and has a slight knockback factor built in plus a ton of 
 + damage against various demon types. This was the firepower I was taking in to help my level 3 
 friend with and we really tore up those early instances in an attempt to get em caught up and ready 
 to go on to the next few stations (or cities) . One of the weapons I got last night was an orange 
 rarity electricity firing gun called a "Proficient FS Volt Rifle". This orange dropped after I 
 completed the built in mini game, which I can go into detail on in a later blog post. Basically 
 the mini game gives you in game tasks like hunt X type of mob or use X type of damage to kill mobs 
 and when you complete a whole ton of loot drops off the monster. I also cleared some in game achievements 
 last night with my main character and got rewarded some AP Points. Only problem is: no one knows 
 what they are for, but I guess they will come into the game later. One of the achievements I unlocked 
 was the "I Hate Boxes" reward, I guess I have been really busting up crates and barrels. I also 
 unlocked "Destroyer" which is rewarded for breaking down items into component parts. I usually 
 stash them all in my storage bin for later.
  
  So my friend got online and he is playing an engineer, at which point I got on my guardian and 
 we proceeded to lay waste to many areas. One thing I like about the guardian is the really quick 
 response times for the attacks. The shield bash is awesome, does not come with some gimpy rage 
 mechanic, and really does the damage. Plus it can be modified for knockback and other damage types. 
 So I jumped in and had my aura on, which heals me additionally for the more mobs I am in contact 
 with, and we advanced through the maps. I know my friend improved his gun because by the end of 
 the night he had switched from dual wielding pistols to using some napalm throwing rifle that was 
 really killing most demons before they approached us. With his slow droids and my ability to rough 
 things up, the maps really stood no chance. 
  
  We ran into one bug that always makes me grimmace. It is very important in this game to exit out 
 of an instance before you log I have noticed. Sometimes it may not save your progress or if the 
 server crashes you can lose quest progression. Also, the chat system is by far the most annoying 
 thing about the online game. The window does not stay open, it is very clunky and the chat channels 
 are all over the place. Luckily I found a guide on the main forums on the Hellgate website or I 
 would not know what the heck was going on. I found it best when grouped to just use party chat 
 and always hang out in that tab and just hit enter then type to respond.
  
  A few other niggles to look out for: I seem to cannot get the hang of the inventory system. For 
 example I would love to drop a mod on a weapon without having to unequip it and drop it in my inventory 
 space, then re-equip it. Also I do not understand why a summoner can use a dart pistol and the 
 other special cabalist weapon (the one that covers the forearm) dual weild, but cannot dual weild 
 two dart pistols. At least I have not been able to get mine to do that. 
  
  The trading interface is a little weak as well, I would prefer to just be able to drop an item 
 on another person and have it open a trade window. Not sure if this can be done but I usually right 
 click their icon and do "trade with player". If you are trying to accept a trade and want to chat 
 and hit enter, it cancels the trade effort. Very frustrating. 
  
  I have however found a huge amount of useful posts on the main Hellgate forums that offer some 
 good tips 
  
  So far Hellgate: London has been pretty much what I bought into it for. If you liked Diablo 2 and 
 were seriously addicted to boss runs, the cool atmosphere and the loot drops, you will love this 
 game. Despite the appearances it is a very deep game. The mods, crafting and the skill trees are 
 some of the things I haven't even touched on yet. There just isn't enough time for me to go into 
 depth with each post so I will have to split them up and do that over time. Hopefully with the 
 patches and the content that can be added to an online game it will only grow from there. Well 
 so far it is a blast for me and I have to say it is the setting also that particularly draws me 
 in. I also like the random factor, especially when I zone into a map and get zombies. Nothing is 
 more fun than shooting a zombie, watching the upper half blow off and having the legs continue 
 to walk toward you. That kind of detail gets me hook line and sinker. Despite the naysayers and 
 the anti "OMG I HAVE TO PAY 10 dollars A MONTH" crowd you owe it to yourself to check the game 
 out if you like this kind of genre. You don't have to subscribe, it is optional. There are some 
 bugs yes, and I have had it crash a few times. The thing is, unlike something like Vanguard, I 
 find myself logging right back in for more goodness. 
  
  Bill Roper was right when he said he wanted to create Diablo 2 meets Half Life 2 and I think they 
 pulled it off for the most part. The game seems like it assumes that Diablo 2 fans will be playing 
 it and that they will just pick up on what needs to be done, which is why I feel the documentation 
 is sorely lacking. One week in I have already seen level 35 people with some really decked out 
 gear and I know I want to get that stuff. I also wouldn't mind being totally crazy and trying hardcore 
 mode (a mode where if you die, your character is gone) . There is a lot to look forward to and uncover, 
 and hopefully Flagship can shake off a rocky launch and get things rolling ahead.
  
  http://wifeagro. blogspot. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooltechie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London, is a tremendously fun game, and in my view, greatly under-rated. Although the 
 story is rather unsatisfying the pre-rendered cut-scenes are some of the best I have seen. The 
 script is limp at best, and for me, slowly ate away at my patience, until it came to the point 
 where I would just scan quest text. An irritation, for me anyway, was the voice-acting, or the 
 lack of it more of, whenever you talk to someone a comment is just blurted out into your ear, in 
 an unconvincing and irritating way; a huge improvement would have been for quest texts to be read 
 out by the quest giver, and the voices made more.. normal. But those really are the only downfalls, 
 the game has amazing graphics, yet still caters for older computers, with entertaining play both 
 multiplayer and singleplayer. The best thing is the replay ability, although not as good as diablo 
 or diablo 2, it still gives a few replays, (I myself choosing to play through the game with several 
 characters.) The classes also feel unbalanced, for instance, an evoker vs. a marksman. The evoker, 
 although having tremendous power, is simply not good enough, they end up being over run by any 
 major boss. A marksman however retains the ranged ability evokers have, and with a few rares can 
 build up good defense. I have heard some say that rangers lack oomph, but I must disagree to this, 
 my ranger kills whatever comes near simply due to some leveled skills and some rare weapons, I 
 will give you that it takes a while for your range to get oomph, but that is it. The guardian character 
 however I feel is greatly overpowered, for it does not have any major weaknesses, the fact it has 
 to get up close and personal was designed as one, yet it failed, the defense of a guardian is outstanding, 
 and the attack power is more than most else, only challenged by blade masters (or whatever they 
 are called) yet they have no real defense. The game's multiplayer is also amazing fun, imagine 
 guildwars combined with a fps and diablo :-p. In conclusion, although I think the story is weak 
 at all parts apart from the cut scenes, due to the addicting play, overwhelming amount of things 
 to do, and the sheer fun, this game gets a thumbs up from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulgerard65
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  
  From what I have played so far from the Demo, I kind of like it. No it is not for everyone, and 
 not for the hardcore gamer. Although i think it is a little pricey, maybe it should be a $40 game. 
 I think the action is enough to keep you going and the quests are interesting enough to want to 
 complete them. The game reminds me a little of that other one I cant remember where they tried 
 to add comic relief in it. The graphics are sharp and clear and for my system runs smoothly. I 
 would buy this game even with all the others that might be a bit better, it would still be a fun 
 game, especially if they fix the little bugs in it like walking through some of the characters. 
 
  
  I still say its worth buying! Give this game a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surdanis
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  As the spiritual successor to Diablo, this game had a lot riding with it. The hype was big -- but 
 not massive. As a fan of the Diablo series, however, the prospect of seeing the same kind of gameplay 
 in 3D was exhilerating. Anticipating its launch, I eagerly awaited my preorder.
  
  And for naught. The game is a veritable disaster.
  
  This would have been a great game if not 
 for the catastrophic bugs. The game hangs up frequently in the loading screen when zoning, forcing 
 the user to restart the program. In multiplayer, the game has a nasty habit of crashing to the 
 desktop due a memory leak of some sort. Reported by a great number of players, this is perhaps 
 the most annoying bug. For myself, I cannot play more than approximately half an hour without crashing. 
 Having more RAM only increases the time until crash.
  
  For a game with such supposedly high system requirements, the graphics are totally abyssmal. If 
 you're on Vista, the word is that textures are set to the lowest setting on other user's avatar's, 
 resulting in a blocky mess. This makes one want to pull an Oedipus and poke his eyes out every 
 time he looks at another player. And since it only affects other player's model textures, everything 
 else is out of place.
  
  Having only put in less than 20 hours, I feel there really is no more need to attempt to go further. 
 The game is virtually unplayable. Waiting around for the devs to post a patch is waste of my time, 
 and I doubt a fix is forthcoming for most users. The fact of the matter is that this game was undoubtedly 
 rushed, and it should never have gone gold in this atrocious state. The publisher apparently wanted 
 to a release date to coincide with Halloween -- for some reason I cannot rightly fathom -- which obviously 
 reduced overall quality of the game. If they had only spent more time trying to fix the bugs before 
 release, there would be a solid game. This is one of those titles that simply needed more time 
 in the oven.
  
  Don't waste your money, folks. This is a pure disappointment, and Hellgate: London now joins the 
 list of game flushed from my hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aureatus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am going to tell anyone who wants to buy this game to wait. There are lots of stability 
 issues and all we are getting is "we are working on it" While the forums are filling up with 100's 
 of errors that make the game unplayable. With that said... 
  
  This game has great potential and my prove to be the action addiction we have all been waiting 
 for. It feels a lot like Diablo did the first time I played it in the late 90's. The gear is cool 
 looking and the randomness of it is awsome. I think that the game is a great game, but I can only 
 play it for about 1-2 hours at a time. You see the game dosen't run well on a 
  
  Intel Core 2 Quad QX6600
  Striker Exstreme Motherboard
  4 Gb of SLI RAM
  X-Fi Fatal1ty
 
  1Tb HD 
  nVidia 8800 GTX x2 (SLI)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tron563
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite a (GREAT) game of mmorpg or fps watever anyway it has a good graphic on the DX10 
 and the req is low for the graphic card and the OS system and the keys are too simple u also can 
 party some users in the game and it will be great fun if u help them in quests or they help u and 
 also u can upgrade the weapons by mods it is quite similar to diablo2.
  
  OK......
  
  The bad thing is there are some bugs goin on some places for the SEA VERSION of IAHgames for the 
 US version i dunno yet but i will try it later as soon as possible since the bug is very damm annoying 
 to some users and also the story mode is very confusing and i dunno wat to said cuz i am speechless 
 but wat i trying to said is its a great mmofps or rpg i dun care whether the game is 7.0 that gamespot 
 rated still its a good multiplayer and offline game i never try it before this type of game i gave 
 it a 7.5 since the teams from the FLAGSHIP STUDIO done this so hard for 4 years i said its a great 
 work for this first mmo game style like guild wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbal782
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London is a really good game. What started with some major bugs, Flagship has pretty 
 much fixed everything and it shows how good this game really is. 
  
  First off, Hellgate looks great! The environments are done well considering hell is now on earth. 
 There were some major framerate issues, but with a few patches, those have been fixed. 
  
  The sound is done farily well and the game has good music, but it's a little infrequent. There 
 is really no voice with the NPCs as they only add some basic comments when you speak to them.
 
  
  The quest are your basic variety. You have quest that will get you loot and money, and then there's 
 a main questline to follow. If you really want to get into the storyline, I would suggest reading 
 the novels (the first book is out now) and the graphic novel. They'll add a lot to the story.
 
  
  The classes are done very well in that you have your power classes in the templars, your magic 
 characters in the cabalist, and the "tech" savvy hunters. The classes will need some balancing 
 in that some are VERY powerful but I'm sure some patches in the near future will fix these issues.
 
  
  One of the best things with HGL are the items. You will get a LOT of loot. Really good loot! Some 
 of it you can use and some you can't depending on your class. The good thing is that you can break 
 down items and use the parts to improve your current items or make new ones. That's up to you! 
 It brings another element to the game that very nice!
  
  One of the differences with HG: L from other MMORPGs is it's free to play! Well, kind of... You'll 
 get certain advantages with being a paying customer like getting certain loot, being able to play 
 certain add-ons, and so on. I pay for the servcie and I'm excited to see what Flagship has in store 
 for the game. 
  
  If you're looking for a fun game with little that you can really sink into, give Hellgate: London 
 a try. I think you'll be happy that you did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natria
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Playing Hellgate is a strange mixture of excitement, dissapointment and utter frustration. Once 
 again a game showing enormous potential was released halfbaked, bugged and with poor storytelling. 
 HG: L shares the same addictive loot-mongering action gameplay that drove Diablo, and it's a lot 
 of fun looking for that next powerful upgrade. Unfortunatly that's about all the positive things 
 you can say about HG: L at release. 
  
  The technical issues alone range from minor annoyances to gamestopping bring back memories of the 
 bugfest that were Anarchy Online and Vanguard. On the other scale is a long list of issues that 
 make the game feel unfinished and rushed. 
  
  The plot of the story is poorly presented, there's only two real cutscenes, NPC's have poor voice 
 acting that doesn't match the dialogue, and you'll end up playing the same tilesets over and over 
 and over. The skilltrees are filled with redundant and useless skills and a third of the abilities 
 are shared between classes, making them feel less unique. Combat it self doesn't feel very exciting 
 or engaging, since most places will be doing nothing but leftclicking. 
  
  Worst of all the game was launched without a lot of features that are now standards of the MMO 
 genre. The chat is poorly designed, there's no shared bank for characters, it's not possible to 
 link items in chat, you cannot split a large stack of items in to smaller ones, and so on. There's 
 also very little in terms of replay value once you hit the max level, unless you decide to subscribe, 
 which Flagship has yet to prove is worthwhile.
  
  Hellgate: London bears all the trademarks of a game that was pushed to an early release well before 
 it was ready. It might yet turn out to be great in a couple of months of intensive bug fixing and 
 content building, but you only get one chance at a first impression, and in that respect HG: L was 
 an utter dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwrqwr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok first things first for all you people who judged this game by the demo.
  The full game is nothing like the demo. Of course some of the bugs are still there. But they came 
 out with a fix for the glitch were you get stuck and can't move. It's still there but just type 
 /stuck and you will be teleported to the beginning of the level. Besides that most bugs have been 
 fixed since there has been 5 updates since release and maybe another in a day or two. Most of the 
 time there are the usual wtf moment's. Now for good now that I got all the bad out of the way! 
 The good is the server support and other features. Like how when you team up in a group they amp 
 up the difficulty so that you'll have to work together or just waste your money on health injectors. 
 Next is the weapons they seem dull I know because I agree that there should be more. But if you 
 find the right one they won't even matter anymore! (Mine is the venom lance) The gameplay is highly 
 addictive thats what inspired me to write this because of people saying worst gameplay ever. Don't 
 listen it's not as good as wow's but it's worth the money for it. Now the subscriber content isn't 
 good now but I'm a subscriber now. But if you read the content for subscribers coming you should 
 consider it to speed up the process for the content! The monsters are challenging ant some times 
 but most of the time there just right if you keep up with the storys pace. Other review make it 
 seem like that buying the game is like jumping into oblivion, not the game. But I say buy it and 
 don't look back and you'll understand why! This is my first review I made on the spot so please 
 do't make fun of it. I bought the collectors because before even playing it I knew it was good! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of playing this game during beta was "holy crap, it's a modern diablo". Essentially, 
 that's exactly how it plays. With the exception of the obvious graphical upgrades and MMO style 
 interface HG: L is perfect for those who loved diablo, diablo 2, and most recently... titan quest. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, there are quite a few technical glitches especially with those running windows vista 
 and/or running it in dx10 mode. IAs a matter of fact, dx10 in HG: L (and most other games) is basically 
 crap at this point. The effects dx10 adds are nice... but not at the cost of a massive framerate 
 reduction. My 8800GTS SLi system with 4GB of RAM has a hard time pumping out playable framerates 
 at my 24" monitors native resolution of 1920x1200. Even excluding the poor framerates, it just 
 feels unpolished. 
  
  While the technicaly glitches certainly subtract from the overall experience, HG: L is still a worthy 
 addition to the RPG genre. With the promise of added content (plenty already added with recent 
 themes) and great support they've already shown, this game is a must have for those of us who enjoy 
 killing demons, grouping with friends, and receiving awesome loot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halsfield
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Perfect continuation of diablo 1 + 2. Great item collection, class system, choice of FPS or 3rd 
 person that both work equally well. Weapon modding adds an entirely new depth of gameplay to a 
 game already packed full of items and relics to collect, dye sets , etc. Classes are distinct and 
 all fun to play. Parties are slightly hard to find this early on , but i expect around christmas 
 to see an explosion of players jumping on board once they hear about it from their friends and 
 family. 
  
  Only problems are in the UI and those will most likely be worked out in the christmas patch. I 
 cant believe gamespot gave this a 7.0, screw them. I'm sorry this isnt an xbox title.
  
  Just more for the rest of us i guess =) . Elite subscriptions are kinda lame as well, hopefully 
 they allow players to make guilds without subscribing, thats my biggest concern, but still an amazing 
 game despite that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hall0559
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Enter Hellgate London, made by people who we're a part of the diablo team, you fight for against 
 an infinate demon army taking over the world (well maybe just London, who knows) .
  
  You choose to play as one of six professions : 
  
  Blademaster, a melee warrior with high burst 
 damage capabilities, but medium to low defence.
  
  Guardsman, a melee warrior with extremely high defensive capabilities, decent healing ablities 
 and the ability to taunt mobs.
  
  Marksman, a ranged firearm specialist with high damage, good evasive skills and low defence.
 
  
  Engineeer, a ranged firearm specialist with medium damage, the ability to create and outfit "bots", 
 also low defence.
  
  Summoner, a spellslinger with the focus on creating minions to do most of the work for you, debuffer, 
 extremely low defence.
  
  Envoker, a spellslinger with the focus on casting, very high damage, very low defence.
  
  Graphics 
 -
  
  The graphics in H: L are unfortunatly 100% relatied to the power of your system, of course this 
 is true of all computer games, but as we move into a new generation of game engines, physics, shaders 
 ect... having a low end system means your really not playing the same game.
  
  On my three year old computer (p4 3.0 1gig ram, PCI ATI x1300/1500 512mb) the game runs in good 
 frame rates mostly only on low settings with maybe one medium here or there, no AA, it also looks 
 terrbile and there a endless shader/lighing glitches that really distract from the environment.
 
  
  On my new budget computer (Duo 2 2.66 2 gig, vista 64, 2x Nvidia 8600 GT 512) the game runs on 
 high settings to a much better effect, playing on Very High or Extreme Modes (dx10 only) are possible 
 but I recieve bad framerates, now this is my fault for my older - low to mid range graphics cards 
 and while the game does look very nice at the high settings, it looks superb in DX10 Extreme-Very 
 High settings. However graphical glitches again mostly shading and lighting abound.
  
  Gameplay:
  Very much the strong suit of the game, you run and gun (or hack and slash) as most 
 of the classes, even caster's spells are very high rate of fire and it does have a good "Action" 
 feel to it with demons constantly swarming you. 
  
  Some monsters are just annoying while some are tough and some are extremely tough and some of course 
 are bosses. Learning how to deal with the different monster types is a big part of the strategy 
 of the game, some monsters have high armor, some high attack strength, some are shielded and so 
 on. 
  
  Most classes as I've said really do run an gun their whole live through hellgate, Guardsman is 
 the notible difference as many of his skills encourage (or require) standing still.
  
  The basics: you use guns/spells/skills/swords to kill mosters for xp, loot and cash. As you gain 
 levels you get attribute points twoards the 4 stats Accuracy, Strength, Stamina, Willpower. Each 
 of which is pretty self explainitory but also in H: L your stats are required for equipment in example 
 a new gun may require you be level 10 and have 30 accuracy to use, if you are lacking either, you 
 cannot equip it. All equipment follows this pattern and at higher levels you may find yourself 
 juggling equipment to get a good fit.
  
  Also as you gain levels you get skill points (your first level 1 is chosen for you) each class 
 has approx. 28 skills that can recieve 7 to 10 points each, the level cap is 50 currently so you 
 do need to make some good choices and try to put your skills where you need them as there is no 
 undoing your choices.
  
  Crafting is a good addition to the game, all loot can be broken down into materials, with quality 
 of the materials recieved depending on the quality of the item you break down. Running out of space 
 but not ready to head back to town? Sure you could summon a portal that saves your place in the 
 dungeon (or just recall and not save your place) Or you could just clean away unwanted junk by 
 breaking it town and letting it all stack up nice and neat. Later then in towns you can speak to 
 crafter NPC's that randomly have items for creation, or use your pieces to upgrade your current 
 equipment or sell it to NPC or player, what ever your style.
  
  NPC merchants also are in each town selling nessecities like health and focus (mana) items item 
 idenifying tools and PRD personal relocation devices. Also the NPC's do sell items, all random 
 all the time.
  
  Probably the most notable aspect of H: L is the randomness, all items, all maps, all non story bosses 
 are totally random. Loot and monsters come in Standard, Enhanced (well only loot is enhanced) , 
 Rare, Epic, Legendary. Maps reload with monsters and randomize everytime you log out, ala diablo 
 save and exit.
  
  Sound:
  Wonderful, from eerie screams to rock and roll kill 'em all anthems, I dont think the sound could 
 of been done any better, except for some weapon effects but thats just being picky.
  
  Story:
  The story in Hellgate is unfortunatly very weak, weaker than diablo, weaker than... its 
 just really weak. Your really only here to kick butt and collect sweet loot, but an excellect story 
 would of made this into great game, instead of just a good game.
  
  Other stuff:
  Online is a good way to play being able to group up with people makes the game tougher which is 
 probably the number one complaint with the first 20 hours of gameplay, however I urge people to 
 stick with it because once you beat the game your original character starts the game over at level 
 with all monsters at level 30 and up and you can begin a new game at level 1 on the increased difficulty 
 mode: Elite.
  
  But dont get me wrong, offline is a great way to play too, this is not an mmorpg and does not play 
 or feel like one. Offline players get more character slots than Online - Non Subscribers and still 
 have access to things like Nightmare and Elite and Nightmare Elite.
  
  At first elite was going to be subscription only (for 9.99 a month subscribers get more character 
 slots, more bank slots, Hardcore mode, and any additional content still to be added) but now it 
 is for everyone, and it is probably the right choice for most of those people calling the game 
 boring or a snooze.
  
  So in closing to this really long review that is probably still missing alot of good information: 
 HellGate London is a good game, held back by graphical bugs, a weak story, and an all too easy 
 first 20+ hours. Fix those things and this would be up there with Halo 3 and Bioshock, but its 
 too late now. However once you get into things like Elite mode and Nightmare Difficulty, the true 
 action begins, unfortunatly those modes are only available after beating the game once.
  
  So get out there Demonslaying, or go back to playing something else.
  
  Cheers!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I got to say that the game has been playable, you have a role to tackle the demons that roam London 
 and that's basically it.
  
  The game has a storyline that creates you as the uprising hero.
  
  All I recall in the game 
 is fighting, fighting do some more fighting. Seems basic enough, yet to realise that to play the 
 game non stop for at one time 5 hrs is a game that keeps me on my toes.
  
  Now, what appears to be disturbing are the glitches
  
  glitch number one: being a blademaster, 
 I find for some reason, my character goes on a frantic automatic swinging the sword ( ( if you want 
 to keep your spirits up press f1-f2 (fighting tactic ) to keep him/her under control ) )
  
  glitch number two: mind your steps down a certain unearthed passageway because you may find that 
 you are stuck ( it's really a glitch but just mind your step!) 
  
  glitch number three: some demons disappears and reappear when they jump high up in the air ( its 
 a glitch I think! )
  
  glitch number four: If you try to enter the back of a empty van on the streets, you are punished 
 by some unknown source of finding yourself back at the beginning of the level ( try it and see 
 - I think this is also a glitch )
  
  glitch number five: there are some maps, a few thank God! That don't have alot of frames per second
 
  
  That's it I haven't come across any other problems, even the patch the developers allow us to have 
 does go some way in most of the glitches ( except the van - try it )
  
  Whose fooling, I would recommend you folks to play the game, and DON'T try to get over hyped up 
 before play, you might find that you were imagining it all along!
  
  And yes, those zombies shiver the spine ( mine if you must! )
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaon99
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  this game had alot of potentail and as a long time follower i had high hopes but it pains me to 
 say that it doesnt meet up to my standards its obvious that this game is not finished it seems 
 there has been two patches a day since release and still issues occur i would have gladly waited 
 another year for a more finely polished product to get my diablo fix. filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler its still fun though cant wait for the updates im still not sure about paying ten 
 bucks a month for the extra content though doesnt seem like enough content to be worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorlen
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Lots of haters out there. Not really getting why. Yes, I can understand some people are upset at 
 the fact that Flagship Studios released the game prematurely - it feels like we're doing the final 
 stages of beta testing for them.
  
  Having said that though, aside from the bugs, many of which have already been patched (remember 
 the game went live Oct 31st and we're now Nov 9th - that's not bad) so it's very much playable, 
 and on top of that, enjoyable.
  
  My biggest problem was the memory leak issue. Word of advice - if you have a beefy PC and you run 
 everything at the highest settings, as of now, you will crash after a few hours. To fix this, lower 
 your two shader options to medium instead of high, or play around with other settings. That's what 
 fixed it for me.
  
  On with the game, then. Setting is 2038 and the world has been taken over by hellish monsters bent 
 on eradicating life on earth, as they've done to a bunch of other planets full of life. It's your 
 job to fight back.
  
  If you've ever played Diablo, you'll be familiar with the random levels, random loot and with the 
  system. It's basically here, but they've added so much cool stuff 
 to the formula that makes it just way more fun. It's odd - some people say this is nowhere near 
 diablo, I say it is, and I like this even better. Why? Well because I'm playing a marksman, which 
 essentially turns the game in a first-person shooter meets diablo, a formula that for me, spells 
 out FUN. I get to blast stuff for hours and on top of that, I get loot out of it and level up.
 
  
  I personally find part of the genius in this game (apart from its blend of action-rpg) is in its 
 features. You can upgrade equipment, build gear with components that you get from dismantling other 
 items, and the modding system is amazing. Each weapon has a certain number and type of slots, giving 
 you dozens of possibilities of customization. You also have the gambling system here, albeit in 
 a different form - you can add a certain amount of special properties on stuff, but it's costly, 
 and you never know if you'll get a great stat or a skill that doesn't even apply to you.
  
  The upgrading function, much like the crafting function, will use components you get when you dismantle 
 other stuff. With these components you can actually upgrade equipment, as all gear has an actual 
 level. When its level is higher, its base statistics will be higher as well. Take for example, 
 the Firefox gun I found when I was level 6 or so. I love that weapon, but I would have outgrown 
 it's power long ago would it not be for the upgrading system. This system allows me to keep weapons 
 and keep making them powerful and allow them to be modded with better mods - pure genius.
  
  Thing is, you don't NEED to keep doing this. You can choose to never dismantle anything and 
 just hoard all the cash. Yeah you'll be doing multiple trips to town, but you'll have a lot of 
 money, something that is far from useless in the game. Merchants often sell great mods, and adding 
 magical properties to equipment costs a lot of cash, so you can choose this route or mix both of 
 them up if you want. That's where Hellgate: London excels - it gives you tons of options, something 
 that's always welcome in any RPG type of game, be it action or not.
  
  So all of that is just stuff you can do in town. Now lets discuss the classes and skills, and then 
 the actual gameplay. Hellgate offers you 6 classes in three different categories. Hunters, Cabalists 
 and Templars, two in each. Hunters are the Engineer and Marksman - the shooter classes, Cabalists 
 are the mage-based summoner and evoker, and templars are your hack-and slash style guardian and 
 blademaster, the two latter played in the 3rd person point of view, and the rest allow you to choose 
 your perspective.
  
  Each class will play quite differently, it really depends on what's your cup-o-tea. You like micro-management 
 and pets? Go engineer or summoner. Or do you prefer the hack-and-slash in your face approach? Go 
 guardian or blademaster. Prefer mage? Go evoker. Or do you like the 1st person shooter blast it 
 if it moves motto? Then marksman is for you.
  
  Skills are somewhat of a mystery in this game. They affect some classes more than others. For the 
 marksman, your skills will compliment your playing style but will not make or break you; instead 
 you will have to rely on equipment, and heavily. You will have no choice but to learn your mods 
 and learn them well, and always keep your gear top-notch. This has some thinking that many skills 
 are useless / worthless. Although I agree that some skill trees need a little tweaking, I rather 
 like this system, but be warned - it's very different than that of diablo's skill tree and takes 
 some getting used to.
  
  Once you've chosen your class and feel comfortable with your choice (I recommend trying them in 
 single player unless you are a subscriber) then it's time to blast or cut your way through hoards 
 of demons, zombies, beasts and other such minions of hell collecting the stuff they drop to make 
 yourself more powerful. This is where it all comes together. Level paths are mostly randomly generated 
 and will use a sort of theme . You'll get to know them fairly quickly, as some themes are for the 
 most part, repeated a little too heavily. Some of these include abandoned train stations, multi-layered 
 sewer systems and a sort of underground laboratory layout type of thing. They do occasionally throw 
 in a setting that will surprise you, but I don't want to spoil anything :) Either way, you'll find 
 many areas familiar, but what's cool is that the monster layout and mini-boss layout will always 
 be fresh and the paths as well.
  
  Another honorable mention has to go to the sheer amount of weaponry available. There are tons of 
 different swords, guns and things. Just look at the guns - you have your physical guns (bullets) , 
 rocket launchers, snipers, rifles, one-handed mini-guns, hand guns and so forth. Each of these 
 main categories offers you tons of variants. The list goes on. Combine this with 3 different weapon 
 slots that can be hot-keyed and you have a lot of options. You'll rarely see the same character 
 with the same weapons - there's just so many and a lot of them are awesome. It all depends on style. 
 I personally always have one rifle as my main weapon, one sniper to take things out from range, 
 and one rocket launcher for big groups. I have literally spend hours experimenting with a ton of 
 different weapons in order to find what I really want - so much fun.
  
  Basically, the game has a lot of depth if your willing to deal with its minor short comings. I 
 haven't even talked about the graphics yet - but just look at screenshots and you'll see they are 
 more than adequate. I'm convinced that in two months time, the game will be much more complete 
 and bug free, so if there any out there wondering if they want to buy it, my advice is to wait 
 a little, and also, try out the demo.
  
  Cheers and happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greykor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  I am enjoying this game immensely. The biggest plus is I can run this w/o slow down. It is not 
 many new games out now that can run on older computers. The interface has a sort of Diablo feel 
 for the skills you can take. And you can go from first person to 3/4 w/ the ease of the mouse wheel. 
 It has a very dark feel to the game, and the monsters are tough when you get to the head bosses. 
 But if you have the right gun the peon's are pretty easy. As I am only playing the Marksmen right 
 now. I recommend this game, and look fwd to trying teh rest of teh classes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyroneus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Does anyone even know what the storyline for Diablo 2 was? For an MMO like Hellgate, it's a bit 
 silly to focus on the storyline. I will admit that there are a few glitches that need to be corrected 
 but i'm sure that patches will take care of it at some point. The only problem I see is that there 
 are not enough online players. Many of the major towns can be underpopulated at times but with 
 time i'm sure more will join. I'm also not a big fan of the minimap and interface. I feel that 
 it could have been done a lot better and the menus are a bit annoying to navigate. I expected more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  I have to agree with caitsith777's review, I am a huge fan of the Diablo Series. As a matter of 
 fact, Diablo was my first computer game that I have ever really enjoyed besids quake. I think for 
 a first title from the ex-diablo team that is a fine effort on their part. As far as bugs are concerned.. 
 that is the nature of the beast in development. I am a professional software developer with over 
 10+ years of software development experience and I can say.. there will be bugs. One of the reasons 
 that titles released despite a few bugs is because of contractual obligations.. budjet concerns 
 and revenue recoup. The game may have bugs... but all in all .. it's a great game expecially if 
 the you have a powerful system that can take advantage of the Directx 10.. it is absolutely stunning. 
 Like the reviewer I mentioned earlier; I have to agree.. this game will mostly appeal to Diablo 
 Style players. When it comes down to MMORP; it's can't compare to WOW. If there was no WOW; people 
 would not be as biased as they are because they would not be able to compare the two. As far as 
 the game being enjoyed to it's fullest potential in terms of graphics, people may need to upgrade, 
 but that's not a bad thing.. (BECAUSE CRYSIS is coming out this week) now that's a killer game 
 that raises the bar on graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcelloz
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London should be the spiritual successor of diablo2. In a sense it is, as it again is 
 a addictive game which makes you start it up over and over again just to have some more of that 
 hack-and-slash and looting you like.
  
  But it also looks like time stood still in a sense of gameplay progression. Nothing new here. And 
 a lot of annoying 'bugs' or 'features' make you grumble all the time: Why can you walk through 
 other people? Why not a decent Save function? Where does your portal go when you invoke it in a 
 small alley? (somewhere in a building you cannot access...) . Why do some monsters just pop-off 
 and appear somewhere else? Why is everybody standing still and not walking around? NPC's speak, 
 but it is not what you have to read. And there is no function to turn the annoying remarks off! 
 Also, the story is told horribly throughout the game. You don't ever have the feeling you are part 
 of it. That a big miss.
  
  The sci-fi setting reminds me of Knight of the Old Republic, especially the interior levels. Repetitiveness 
 of the levels makes them boring after a while.
  
  Final word : Overall it makes Hellgate London rather clumsy and i would have dropped it if it weren't 
 for the addictiveness and the fact that you can pop-in, do a 10 minute run and quit the game again. 
 Mixed feeling thus far, so a 7 as it keeps me clicking the icon on my desktop over and over again 
 even if I don't want to (sort of...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiftfallout
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Bill Roper of Flagship Studio's once said In Hellgate london, you will never see the same thing 
 twice. The truth is, the game is one large piece of repetition. Not just in how you play, but in 
 how the world looks. Roper lied.
  
  In the beta, a developer let it known that ... yes they really did not want the game to feel epic. 
 That they loved the movie shaun of the dead so much, they wanted to just make it all one big joke. 
 They did that. The joke was on the people who payed for a non-epic game. One of which tries to 
 distract the consumer with nice graphics and a loot system. Everything else fails. Good game design 
 comes from making a good foundation, something Flagship studios clearly did not spend time on. 
 We have to remember, the man behind the Diablo franchise is NOT at Flagship studios, as they would 
 want you to believe, but working at Perpetual Entertainment. On other occasions Roper has stated 
 that HGL is not an MMO, and then later at a different time, that it IS and mmo. Flagship studios 
 does not even know their own product, and this lack of strong concept and clear design ends up 
 hurting them.
  
  The game fails to be anything more than just a gimmick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lescale
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  Why was World of Warcraft reviewed 3 weeks after the game launch? Why are other MMO games reviewed 
 later on? Because any game of this amplitude needs some time to addapt. Especially a game like 
 Hellgate London.
  
  I won't discuss all the technical details here ... yes, there are bugs, but patches are applied 
 every day. Yes it was launched to early, but whyblame them if once again they were pushed by EA.
 
  
  If you filter all the crap from the official forums and go take a look at the fan based forums, 
 you'll find more constructive reactions. Instead of blaming the game for what it does wrong, they 
 cheer what it does goed, change and improve. They also point to the bugs and every day there is 
 a new patch.
  
  Now for the game:
  
  I'v never played a game that was this addictive, online and free. Yes free to play online if you 
 choose. I come home, turn on my computer and start blasting away .. put my brain to zero en kill 
 thousend's of zombies and demons per hour ... collect loot, improve my gear and level ... Now how 
 this is done is your own choice. If you like to do it top down and run around 2D environements 
 that actually all look the same like in D2, then you should stick to that, but if you like to take 
 a rocket launcher that fires 5 self propelled and exploding nukes in the face of a group of 20 
 blood zombies, then this is the game for you.
  
  I'm one of the people that really like the fact dat some of the environments look the same .. I 
 start to develop tacticts and when I see that same staircase again, I take my grenade launcher 
 and lob a few rounds in there. The fun thing is that you never know what you'll hit ... the random 
 nature of the game could leave that staircase empty, full of zombies that explode in a bloody mess 
 or just piss of an elite rare mob that will kick your ass in 5 seconds ...
  
  So yes I love this game and I'm giving it a chance to prove what it's worth. They have my support 
 all the way ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingig520
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  there is no action in this game whatsoever, i mean it is insane that they even get to develop such 
 a game, that i think is very bad done by a former wow creator.
  Damn man if you got cash to buy this then dont you will just waste you money, go buy crysis instead 
 that is much better.
  There is no rpg at all in this game it really sucks, i mean i spent like 2 hour completing this 
 game and that is way to easy for me, only noobs and tards would buy this game. i am very dissapointed 
 : (
  
  Damn you flagship studios 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommynj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I been playing this game since release and I am also a monthly subscriber as well. The game is 
 hacknslash with great graphics and non boring game play. There is never a time I am ever bored 
 while playing the game. The Pros:
  
  1. No such thing as mindless grind here. You can attain a high level within weeks not months. 2. 
 Graphics and music are awesome. Goes well with the gameplay.
  3. If you like loot there is tons of it in this game.
  4. Weapons and armor are great. there 
 is some really great looking stuff in this game.
  5. Quarterly updates with actual content unlike many mmo games which don't even give you updated 
 content until an expansion is made.
  
  The Cons:
  
  1. Shakey start with still some lingering bugs but they will be fixed very shortly.
  2. Subscription 
 model isn't for everyone since so many are spoiled from persistent world mmo games.
  3. Guild features need improvement.
  
  Overall, for FSS's first game it is pretty good and 
 with some fine tuning along the way it will be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactician
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. The development shop had all the right funding but just did not 
 focus on the polish. This game needed 3 - 6 more months work. It is likely that by the first expansion 
 pack this will be the 9.0 game I expected but right now its just not there. Here are some problems 
 with the game that stand out:
  
  The voice acting stinks. The engine is uninspired and gives useless messages that disrupt the atmosphere. 
 The game should not be trying to be overtly funny. The characters should ALL speak their quest 
 texts. At a minimum the chars should speak all main storyline quests so you know what they are. 
 They have poor use of sprites. There should be more flash. The game has moments of dull underpowered 
 explosions.
  The monster variety is week at best. Taking a zombie and having one version of it with slightly 
 different texture is a cheap cop out. The hell missions are not hell like. The hell missions are 
 more like visiting a museum to the satanic. It just does not make sense to see a bunch of statues 
 and vogue architecture. More thought to the level designs is definitely needed. Where is the plot? 
 I should have a clue after 10 levels what I am doing. Multi-player feels tacked on. I would not 
 pay extra for some slots and patches I should get for this game for free.
  Truthfully I regret buying it. I feel ripped off. I will finish the single player missions but 
 never sign up for the multiplayer. If they make a good series of expansions that would fix the 
 problems I would consider updating then. My recommendation, wait and see what they put into it. 
 Dont buy it full price. Its only worth about 20 bucks as is.
  but only after some proof they are not trying to take my money and run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcandy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  For once I agree with Gamespot on a review! My only question is, why the hell did it take so long 
 to post the damn review? The Call of Duty 4 review was out the day of release. Both releases were 
 big sellers, why am I waiting a week to read Hellgate?
  
  Anyways, Hellgate is Diable 3D, end of story. Lots of monsters dropping lots of loot which results 
 in more backpack management than actual gameplay. The gameplay is... meh. I played the beta and 
 sadly realized that there was no reason to buy the actual game. I wish there was more to review 
 about this game, but if you're looking for groundbreaking gameplay, look elsewhere. There are no 
 real twists or turns, the plot is predictable and the multiplayer aspect is bitter icing on a turd 
 cupcake. If you have a money tree and fifty dollars is nothing but a drop in the bucket, feel free 
 to spend it on Hellgate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hump
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-
  
  Disappointing. I'm not looking for hyper-realism but they could've done more to get the textures 
 to NOT look like they are pre-2004. The DX-10 depth-of-field and motion blur is a novelty that 
 you dont even notice after a few hours.
  
  The cut-scenes are another story. VERY well done in the best tradition of Blizzard. I'm glad Bill 
 Roper kept this ideal when he left that company to start Flagship. The next question is..... how 
 about a full-length feature film?
  
  Sound-
  
  Not bad, about what you'd expect from such a game.
  
  Gameplay-
  
  As Spiff Gerstmann mentioned 
 in his review, the single thing that keeps one going back is the addictive nature of the weapon 
 upgrades. Im a FPS player more than anything else and such a system is simply digital crack for 
 me. Things like the quests, boss battles etc are less engaging. The main story arc just doesn't 
 hold up the promise of the cut scenes. Matter of fact, the in-game story is like a spoof of the 
 cut-scene aspect as done by Monty Python..... except it isnt all that funny.
  
  MP-
  
  Haven't really gone online and probably won't. Theres nothing here that I would find more compelling 
 by playing with others. Overall-
  
  The idea of modern day Knight-Templars using high-tech weaponry with magic battling demons in a 
 modern western urban landscape is the stuff of erotic gamer dreams. That being said its a major 
 bummer that it turned out to be a merely OK game that most people expected a lot more from given 
 the pedigree of Flagship Studios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonwaaa
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Ship now, patch later. Good goin EA for forcing Flaship to ship out the product before it was even 
 ready. There are numerous memory leak issues along crashes, lock ups, and a very flawed chat system. 
 The chat system is so bulky that many players choose not to keep it open, due to it's size. And 
 the weapon models... even though stats are different almost all weapons, whether it be a rifle 
 to a sword look the EXACT SAME! Flagship has acknowledged many of these bugs and are promising 
 patches and updates asap, but again, it should not have left the shop if it is not fixed. Released 
 a well polished, great product late is better than releasing a 3/4 finished product but made the 
 release date. Now Flagship and EA are getting hammered in the video game reviews. On a positive 
 side, the quest line is well laid out, the story line is more interesting once you get past lvl 
 20 and there seems to be more map variety later on in the game. If you are tired of WoW and want 
 to try something new, this is your game. But I would advise in waiting to purchase till they get 
 their big patches in sometime in December. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm stuck in the mind of Techsmith 314, I killed all the bosses in there and was suppose to exit 
 through a portal to meet the father . However - before I could enter the portal I was killed and 
 now when I go back the portal has disappeared... main quest is broken. And theres no way to revert 
 from an earlier save either. There can only be one word for this; unacceptable.
  
  And there's more:
  
  My evoker (lvl 15) is weak as hell even though I've taken the outmost 
 care to set up armor and weapons in the best possible way. I've compared with some other classes 
 and the evoker is waaaay underbalanced, need more shields/armor/better spells or something.
  
  It's repetitive as hell; basically you're playing the same single level over and over. Your 
 guns and armor gets better... but the enemies get tougher... so it just amounts to some graphical 
 cosmetic change. And the surroundings stay mostly the same, as do the quests. Get that, kill that 
 blah blah.
  
  All the characters in the game talk absolute gibberish, I can't stand it. Just shut up and tell 
 me in plain English what you want me to do if you want me to do something.
  
  I'm giving this a 1.0 due to broken main quest and no way to fix it, things like that just aren't 
 suppose to happen. Bethesda (Oblivion you know) use to say that great games are played not made 
 , seems the Hellgate developers didn't get the message here. Im not quitting games that Ive started 
 playing often but this will be one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  The games just launch in Singapore in a BIG BANG! I mean Big.... a really big headache. This game 
 totally jet me out of my own sit and i telling yea why. it's waste of my time, lack of ideas and 
 somehow trying to milk my $$ out of my piggy bank. So what if the graphic is good or the story 
 line is interesting, perhaps they should try to make a movies instead of making this child play. 
 It not even try to make you the best character (unless you willing to pay a few dollers to make 
 your heros looks perfect.) Nice try, but not good enough to fool people around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I feel the game is a bit of a letdown after the massive hype-machine we experienced pre-launch.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong - it's a good game, in a basic and repetetive sort of way, and I will keep playing 
 it to see where the story/campaign goes, but I can't help regretting the money spent.
  
  The graphics are ok, but extremely similar - level design is ok - but again, extremely familiar 
 once you've played past level 10 you'll see many of the same old streets and tunnels. For the fairly 
 bland graphics on offer I would have thought the game would be more optimised. In addition, one 
 thing I HATE HATE HATE is when your own character armor is shown in hi-res, but everyone else's 
 is shown in low-res. That's just like Guild Wars and it sucks because I know other people are only 
 looking at a low-res version of all my cool armor and weapons. I wish they had a togglable option 
 for that.
  
  Lag is fine, less than 400ms from Australia is within limits, although I do find the game rather 
 stuttery in packed stations.
  
  The chat system is ridiculous and a total waste of time and space. This needs work, as does the 
 LFG functionality.
  
  Difficulty is fine, those who think it's too easy are probably talking about the first 10 levels 
 and are playing a Guardian.
  
  All in all, despite regretting my purchase, I am making a personal goal of completing the central 
 story line, gearing my Guardian best I can, possibly making a Marksman or Evoker, and seeing if 
 Flagship throw some nifty extra content at us - considering they did rush this out onto the street 
 thanks to EA Games.
  
  So this isn't a game I'd highly recommend, but if you don't mind a bit of repetitious hack/slashing, 
 and OODLES of loot, and if your friends are into it, then you'd probably think you're in heaven. 
 Errrr - or is that hell? :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is addictive. It should be labeled as such. This is Diablo in 3D. Same M. O. The game 
 is not about the story, it is about mugging some demon spawn for there ill gotten gains. Then using 
 the same gains, to mug more demons and building even better equipment. The classes are so diverse, 
 it feels like you play a different game each time you make a new character. It still has some programming 
 problems though. There are hangups in DX 10 mode, collision detection problems and memory leaks. 
 And still, it plays damn well. Diablo was no different. Is needed time to workout these bugs. So 
 will this game. Patches will make this game more stable then it is and will eventually create a 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneschool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  When Diablo II came out, I ignored my friends, my wife, and my job to play though the campaign 
 each day long into the wee hours of the night. Since then, I've been waiting for a game that combines 
 the pulse-pounding of an action game with a bit of role-playing depth. Dungeon Siege looked promising, 
 but it fell short for me, as did it's successor. In my mind, Hellgate to is a incredible homage 
 and extension of Diablo. I have enjoyed it more the longer I've played it. It has the pace of a 
 button-masher with the addiction of a role-playing game ( I'll go to bed right after I level up... 
 ) .
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chernnunos
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Look at this!!! Look at the Review pie chart!! Gamespot DELETED the majority of the Abysmal reviews!!!
 
  
  PROOF!!!! Gamespot is biased, and is probably getting a kickback financially for this game!! it's 
 why I cancelled my account!!! Look at this... nearly every other game site out there has reviewed 
 this game EXCEPT for Gamespot!!! Ask yourself why! CANCEL YOUR ACCOUNTS ON HERE!!
  
  Don't let them tell YOU what games you play!!! Tell THEM what games you want to play, and tell 
 them why they suck!!
  
  Read Flagship's VERY OWN FORUMS!!! That's the TRUTH about this game!! It's a LIE!! it's horrible.. DON 
 T waste your money!!!! Don't do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaNOLA
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Old school, yes. But not in a good way. At no point does this game make one feel clever. The creature 
 design that doesn't blow is hobbled by dated poly counts and inscrutable textures. As for the maps 
 - the levels rely on about as many unique section pieces as a Hotwheels starter track. You see 
 so much of the same units over and over that you can get lost. In less that a minute you will run 
 past the same rooms with the same arrangement of clutter on the floor several times. Lazy. One 
 decent thing: The intro sequence was far and away one of the best I've seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pblogic
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  I can't express how tired I am of generic randomized gameplay. WHERE IS THE STORY?????? I could 
 go on and on for thousands of words but the point is, this is really a tech demo. There's no life 
 to the game. There is no game. Nauseatingly repetitive. I can't express how tired I am of generic 
 randomized gameplay. WHERE IS THE STORY?????? I could go on and on for thousands of words but the 
 point is, this is really a tech demo. There's no life to the game. There is no game. Nauseatingly 
 repetitive. I can't express how tired I am of generic randomized gameplay. WHERE IS THE STORY?????? 
 I could go on and on for thousands of words but the point is, this is really a tech demo. There's 
 no life to the game. There is no game. Nauseatingly repetitive. I can't express how tired I am 
 of generic randomized gameplay. WHERE IS THE STORY?????? I could go on and on for thousands of 
 words but the point is, this is really a tech demo. There's no life to the game. There is no game. 
 Nauseatingly repetitive. I can't express how tired I am of generic randomized gameplay. WHERE IS 
 THE STORY?????? I could go on and on for thousands of words but the point is, this is really a 
 tech demo. There's no life to the game. There is no game. Nauseatingly repetitive. I can't express 
 how tired I am of generic randomized gameplay. WHERE IS THE STORY?????? I could go on and on for 
 thousands of words but the point is, this is really a tech demo. There's no life to the game. There 
 is no game. Nauseatingly repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoofWolf
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I was hoping for a semi-mindless fun game to draw me out of my WoW addiction and this is definitely 
 not it.
  
  The interface is just awful. Accepting Quests is either an exercise in useless clicking (like 1 
 click per freaking sentence, come on!) or a single click of just gimme the quest already, sheesh 
 and you lose out on any story. Clicking on things often brings up a window you really didn't want 
 so be prepared to hold down your mouse buttons and hover over mystery symbols to figure out what 
 you really wanted to do. Oh, and don't expect any help in figuring out how to use 'socket' items 
 or how to 'craft' things. You'll have to figure that out on your own. And when you do get help, 
 it's in the form of an obnoxious big line of text that blocks up an important part of your screen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alighadimipour
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  the game play is great .this game really sucks you in .. and the graphics are awesome in it's class 
 ..
  you have many variety of weapons and you have 5 classes to play with , like diablo 2 every class 
 has his or her own skills and benefits for example blade master can use a sword in each of his 
 or her hand in the other hand blade masters can't use riffles .. just like diablo 2 any way... 
 i've played diablo .. diablo 2 , diablo 2 :lord of Destruction , titan quest titan quest immortal 
 throne and loki ..... and after diablo 2 , hellgate is a best action RPG game that i'v played
 
  
  most play it ........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavinan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm here for the game / game play i'm very patient and can wait for patches to clean up the bugs 
 and ui problems. I don't concider bugs and other issues like that when i look at a brand new game. 
 i can't wait to see this game after a few months. When wow came out plp were going off about the 
 bugs and issues and look at it now . Even when the expac was released it was a nightmare for about 
 2 weeks with all the disconects and odd little bugs. What i'm saying is this game has major promise 
 and alot going for it so give it alittle time it will shine. However at this point it just doesn't 
 have major staying power i could only bring myself to finish normal with one char and i gave up 
 on my melee chars totally since they have no feeling of combat you just feel like your swinging 
 your sword around and not hitting anything but somehow stuff dies. this is fixable thankfully but 
 it will take time. But my biggest issue is the fact that every ranged class is the same class they 
 all have to shoot weapons at mobs insted of using skills to kill this isn't a good thing and really 
 needs work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchrisbobisx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok i see a lot of biased reviews out there some rated as 1 some 9/10, this game is neither, upon 
 playing Hellgate london, all i have to say is this game DOES NOT live up to the hype calling a 
 game the next diablo3 generates hype those are some big shoes to fill, to put it blundly darkfall 
 was more diablo 3 than HGL, here are some reasons why:
  
  1. the cinematics are terrible -_- the E3 trailer was awesome it got people hyped, even i liked 
 it! the IN game cinematics where not so hot, diablo 3 eh? diablo had great in between act cinematics, 
 in this game acts 1-4 are all the same cinematics, a narrator flipping pages in a book and talking 
 about somehing about truths and stuff, its borring and it will make you go wtf? when watching it. 
 i actually skipped them all half way, huge lackluster cinimatics= bad.
  
  2. this game still feels like its in BETA: thats correct your paying 50$ for a game that should 
 be still in BETA, this game is insanely glitchy, i get stuck all the time, i have had items vanish 
 from my inventory, and belive it or not my main quest was glitched on one of my characters so i 
 couldent continue the story... among glitches there is also the lag (you will get use to playing 
 like theirs a strobe light in your room)
  
  3. UNBALANCED AS HELL- this game is sooooo umbalanced, i have a level 10 engineer level 17 marksman 
 level 24 guardian, my friend has a level 12 blademaster and 18 summoner and my other friend has 
 a 15 evoker, so you can saw we played every class in the game, heres a fast breakdown of each class;
 
  
  marksman- shoot guns, get outdamged by a blademaster, cant take punishment,
  
  engineer- shoots guns, basically like a marksman without marksman skills; you can summon bots but 
 they are worthless, dont do dmg and AI for them is terrible IE: main bot runs into mobs and gets 
 melee to death when it has a lazer caplable of shooting qute far away)
  
  summoner- a decent class though not great at anything, soloing the quest and pvp wise they suck, 
 you summon y our demons when they are slowly killing mobs you wip out your gun like the marksman 
 and engineer and do most of the dps yourself.
  
  evoker- you will be popping power packs like skittles... dies very quickly has no armor spells 
 dont do all that much -_- this class is worst of them all as of yet
  
  guardian- my favorite class, it cant pvp but it can make a WoW rogues stunlock look like a joke, 
 almost every offensive spell is capable of stunning for a long time... and shield bash has no cooldowns 
 you can keep someone stunned forever (literally)
  
  blade master- best class of all, why? they do about 600 dmg a hit, how much is 600 dmg is it alot?! 
 my level 23 guardian has 600 health and 500 armor and 400 shield, a level 23 blademaster can kill 
 me in 3-4 seconds, sword of reconing is your bread and butter, increases your attack buy 100%+ 
 dmg, no cooldowns instant attack, run up and spam = gg this class can solo and dominates pvp
  
  needless to say this game needs some balancing done...
  
  4. same scenery- almost every 
 level will look identical, im saying that you will be seeing the noob island maps in act 4 20 or 
 30 levels later. there are about eh....5 maps, sewers, city, deserted plains, hell, demon looking 
 cathedral. 5. story line/quest- this was a huge problem for me, the story absolutely confuses the 
 hell out of you... i mean i read the hellgate london 350 page novel, and i read the dark horse 
 comic, im still lost! dunno wtf is going on, and the biggy; the QUESTS. this game makes your character 
 feel so unappreciated... example, go save these templars from doom, go into hell and save one of 
 our leaders, kill this demon boss, kill the demon bosses boss, repair this train so we can escape, 
 kill this demon general, close this hellgate, save the templars save the world, i mean WTF not 
 even a thank you well done? all you do is run around basically singlehandedly saving the whole 
 world with NO help at all.
  
  6. combat system- its no age of conan system basically all you do in 3rd person with a gun is hold 
 clicker, push W A S D and hack away, they should have used the star wars jedi knights academy fighting 
 style, where you can link attacks up and make combos etc, well they didnt all u do is click and 
 W A S D your way into victory, fps is fps you see your guys hands and guns and you hold down the 
 clicker there is NO AMMO NO RELOADS.
  
  7. INTERFACE, the chat system sux, it feels like your playing single plater, rarely do people chat, 
 i actually soloed the whole game on my guardian online, never met a soul, guilds are lame you cant 
 do anything in a guild, you can solo the whole game, personally the hp bar and mana bar is 2 big, 
 they are diablo 2 style big balls red and blud, being year 2032? i would have thought hp bars and 
 things would look more like one of those hospital life support machines, anyways that takes up 
 2 much space, unlike WOW you cant hotkey skills, there is only 1-0 bar to put skills in and it 
 so not enough.... little things like how you cant split stacks of crafting materials also is annoying
 
  
  8. LASTLY equipment cost - ok let me ask, what made diablo 2 fun? TREASURE HUNTING, be the most 
 decked out guy on the server, you would think the creators of D2 would think of putting that into 
 hellgate? NO there are equipment costs its basically if you dont have the strength to wear this 
 sword you put points into it until you meet its requirement, so thats how casters will sometimes 
 be wasting points into stamina or strength... take away this annoying equipment cost please, how 
 are you going to treasure hunt when you cant even wear the treasure hmm?!
  
  there you have it my little list of what sucks in hellgate, i believe if these things where fixed 
 this game would be hell of better, peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SempiternalTrut
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  So Hellgate has been advertised as this big game, with a big single player campaign and the additional 
 feature of online play. It turns out that the single player is fairly large, consisting of quests 
 given by npc's. Unfortunately, however, this fairly large campaign features an extensive list of 
 bugs, half of the quests don't even finish. For example, you'll have to find 7 warheads that somehow 
 these hellish horrors possess, you kill enough and you find 6, but no matter how many more you 
 kill, never does another drop. The quests are given out by only a few npc's per area, and you only 
 can get new quests by completing the quests in an orderly fashion one after the other. This is 
 a simplistic way of dealing with the quests, added to this you'll find that quests come almost 
 at random... meaning that if you really really want to complete every quest you'll end up running 
 through the same areas over and over, often backtracking through as many as 5 or 6 areas to get 
 back to an area already explored. This is, of course, not to mention the fact that's it's impossible 
 to finish all the quests given the bugs. Probably the most frustrating element of Hellgate London 
 is the environment you'll be exploring. One of the major draws of these huge games is that you'll 
 find vast landscapes to explore and discover, Hellgate London fills up the entire game with maybe 
 6 landscape textures, that is then copied and pasted throughout the entire game. One cool environment 
 is when you end up being teleported inside of another persons brain. It was a great break from 
 the very used up sewer and street environments, but later in the game they use this same environment 
 for a different scenario that is not supposed to be inside of a brain! How about character creation? 
 I can let go of the environments if you can create a cool character that has a lot of great talents 
 and abilities and is fun to play. In some ways I think Hellgate successfully developers a number 
 of unique character that you can play. But, really the game boils down to either using a number 
 of swords to hack away, or shoot (with a gun or magic) from a distance. I played both and found 
 the swords to be much more entertaining, if you are just starting out, use the swords. The gunfighting 
 and magic using seem like that might be cool, unfortunately guns and magic both seem to give you 
 a terrible headache after playing for an hour or two. Why? Well, similarly to the environments 
 your going through, the monsters your killing are all the same. After about 30 minutes into the 
 game, you've seen every monster there is. In most other games, even FPS, you find a variety of 
 enemies... even if the enemies are human often different clothes will be worn signifying different 
 abilities. In Hellgate, the monsters all look the same and have the same attacks throughout, the 
 only difference is the number of hit points and how big they are. Ohhh noo, look out for that over 
 sized creep! Now if this doesn't completely turn you off the game (which it should) . then let me 
 explain further by saying that given the half baked quests, environments, characters and monsters, 
 the player is soon given the impression that the whole game balances on mediocrity. You get the 
 feeling as if the designers/developers were settled with a this is good enough type of attitude. 
 It is very frustrating when this type of attitude is perceived, especially after spending many 
 hours completing a campaign that instead of being a driving fun experience, that takes you out 
 of your world and in another, Hellgate becomes more of a drill in patience and determination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legares
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  THis game is very good. The classes that you can chose from (there are 6) are mostly different 
 and each has their own specialties. This is one of the not many game that gives a first person (or 
 third) game and RPG aspect. The skills that you get to use are different for each character and 
 are very fun to use. The game is filled with quests and challenging bosses. Another important part 
 of this game is the item system; it has al ot of different things in it (Ex modding ,improving items, 
 breaking them down etc) . An the graphics are also very good making the game and overall fun experience 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I never get into the hype of pre-release for a game so maybe that is why I dont regret having brought 
 this fantastic game. I was expecting a good sci fi demonic 3dshooter and instead was pleasently 
 surprised when I got a doomsday masterpiece full of stark surreal nightmare imagery of a world 
 almost dead.
  
  On my Pentium 2.4 with a e-GeForce 7800 GS and a gig of ram I was shocked at how well and smooth 
 as greased lightning on mayonaise covered vaseline the game was running. Only once in awhile at 
 certain bases when going up the subway stations long spiraling staired tunnels did I ever get any 
 slow down. It was also great to see the manual give advice on turning off background tasks to get 
 the most performance out of ones systems.
  
  Graphics are amazing with very detailed environments, monsters, npcs and items. The animations for 
 the monsters are intricate adding alot of life to the demonic abominations now roaming the desolate 
 dark haunted landscape. Theres plenty here for fans of horror and gore movies with bodies being 
 sliced in half and decapitations. Sometimes such bodily dismemberments still dont stop the psychotic 
 malevolent will of these demons to destroy your character and you have to dish out more punishment 
 with the powerful mystic armaments at your disposal of which there seem to be endless weapons and 
 armor to collect far beyond your hearts desire. That also goes for the great looking armor pieces 
 some looking like something out of THE GUYVER movie or the old 1990s game MDK.
  
  Sound effects are stunning. Not since the days of DOOM has each monster sounded so unique and with 
 its own strong character which goes perfectly with their macabre likelike animations. Anyone who 
 uses a stereo and woofer with their computer games will get a big fright and kick out of the effects 
 oozing from this diabolical soundscape. HELLGATE LONDON is chockful of tributes or whatever you 
 wanna call them to horror movies of old. From the female zombies that rush as if floating towards 
 the player with limbs flailing about wildly and cackling maniacly like something out of an EVIL 
 DEAD movie to little musical notes in songs which sound like something out of THE EXORCIST title 
 theme.
  
  Character creation is excellent with plenty of ways to give your character that special look with 
 many faces, hairstyles, skin tones and even body types one can make skinny bodies for stealthy characters 
 or extra muscular bodies for that look that says heavy weapons and melee annihilator.
  
  Interface is very intuitive with everything just a key stroke or mouse click away.
  
  The only 
 thing I found lacking in the game world were Npc interactions where they had nothing to say to 
 the player unless they had a task for them. It would have been nice to have been able to engage 
 in some idle useless chatter just to find out more about the many npcs background who could have 
 been fleshed out much more in interesting and humorous ways.
  
  I totally recommend this game and with patches am sure it will live up to its full potential.
 
  
  This is like DIABLO 3 in a sci-fi future and the remake of DOOM 2 on earth as one would imagine 
 it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by stating the Pros and Cons of Hellgate: London, which if reiterated shall be known 
 as Hellgate.
  
  Pros
  -Atmospheric world.
  -Unique look.
  -Great and varied demons ranging in size and power.
  -Generally interesting items to equip.
 
  -You're constantly assaulted with upgrades to your gear.
  -Diablo feel.
  -Free online, optional to pay.
  
  Cons
  -Clunky interface, hopefully they'll fix it in a 
 patch.
  -Randomly-generated dungeons take away from could-be unique levels.
  -Some items just don't look good.
  -Still a bit buggy.
  -Suscriber benefits don't always warrant 
 the $10/month.
  
  Let me go over the categories: Gameplay, Graphics/Art, Sound, Replayability, and Value; starting 
 with Gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: In Hellgate you pick from one of 6 classes. There is the Blademaster (dual-wielding melee) , 
 Guardian (melee with sword/shield that has auras and can heal) , Evoker (mage) , Summoner (obvious) , 
 Engineer (summoner with guns and robots, more combat-based than the Summoner) , and Marksman (Ranged, 
 i. e. a hunter) . This is a nice variety of classes, but I would have loved to have seen a healing-specific 
 class, but I just like playing the priest in games. You'll wander through randomly-generated levels, 
 and what that means is the level structure. There are a variety of demons to face as you plow through 
 reaching your destination which is in the form of Quests. You'll have a trusty mini-map (just like 
 Diablos which can be in the center-right part of your screen or overlaying the center, or just 
 not on at all) and lots of equiptment to choose from. Your character has a lot of slots ranging 
 from head, to weapon, to legs, to belt, and more. You even have the option of dyeing your armor 
 with dye kits for a unique look. The armor ranges from silly to just plain epic, and you'll have 
 a fun time trying to get new gear. Especially because your drops are your own, so you don't have 
 to fight with a friend over them. And if a friend finds an item you need, just ask him and you 
 guys can use the Diablo-esque trade interface (you put your offer and you see their offer, you 
 both click Accept and voila) . The screen offers your health bar, your power bar (i. e. mana, but 
 it regenerates which is nice) , shield which goes down before your health does, and if you're in 
 a party, then a party interface. If FPS is your style (this can only be used with ranged of course) , 
 you can zoom in for some unique action. The quests are varied and are particularly fun, some has 
 you doing the old collection quests or kill ? zombies. But some entitle you to destroy boils with 
 a unique quest-given gun, or use a turret to mow down a demonic ship floating in the grave skies 
 of London, or at one point you're given an RTS-esque quest in which you're looking from the sky 
 point-of-view, and you control a small squad of soldiers trying to get them to a specific point. 
 Well enough of gameplay, I think you get the general idea.
  
  Graphics: While the graphics aren't ground-breaking, its nice these days not to require a top-of-the-line 
 computer just to play a fun game. Of course the graphics can look great on your high-end computer, 
 but is accessible to look somewhat less spectacular but run very well. As of this review there 
 is issues with DX10 causing FPS (frames per second) problems, but that should be patched up soon. 
 Of course the art is unique and atmospheric, the environments may get old fast but are fun to traverse 
 through, and your armor is pretty cool to look at for the most part.
  
  Sound: The sounds are particularly bland, the music is easily waved off as moderate. Just listen 
 to something while you play, say your iPod for instance (not me, I stream the radio on my computer) .
 
  
  Replayability: Once you beat the game you automatically ascend to the next difficulty level which 
 is Nightmare, and I believe there's another after that. With subscriber content upcoming in the 
 form of new dungeons and holiday-specific events, it's easy to get lost in this game for a couple 
 of weeks it would seem. This is my game to play whenever I need something to do, or a new game 
 isn't coming out for a while. I believe the level cap is 50, and it's fairly hard to reach (from 
 what I've played so far) , but its very enjoyable.
  
  Value: As stated, there's lots of upcoming content, the fee is optional and you're not missing 
 much if you don't subscribe (right now, anyway) . For $50 you can buy a pretty great game, which 
 should only get better from patching. Also, for you junkies out there, there's a small Achievement 
 system embedded into the game where you get AP (which I have no idea what it does right now, rumors 
 are that is gives you rewards) for doing specific things, i. e. killing 1000 zombies, and so on. 
 Oh and don't forget, if you do not have online than there is a single-player component which is 
 the exact same as the multiplayer.
  
  So the last thing I have to say, try the game out if you like Diablo. People try to say it's just 
 like Diablo, and it is somewhat, but it mostly takes the Diablo elements and expands upon them 
 differently than most people expected. If anything, this is a great game to play until an MMORPG 
 comes out that you're waiting for, or if you're just bored of WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katmandu32
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I've seen all the so-so reviews this game has been getting, and I can't really see why. I'm having 
 a great time just going around slagging demons. Sure, some of the scenery is repetitive, but it 
 was that way in Diablo as well, and hardly anyone complained about it. I think the classes give 
 you a good choice on how to play, depending on your style. Plus, some of the NPC lines are hilarious! 
 Anyway, dislike it if you want, but in my opinion, it's a fun game...... and isn't that what games 
 are supposed to be about in the first place? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lart
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game has a few things, that are ok.
  
  The graphics and sounds are ok, also this game brings the old addictive item collection system 
 that made diablo famous. This addiction works to a certain degree here too.
  
  But this is where it stops, i fail to see any other reasons, that make this game enjoyable.
  
 
  After playing the beta, everyone said, this is only beta, wait for the release. So i bought the 
 release a few days later. What i got was an exact resembly of the beta i played. A few technical 
 glitches were gone, but the rest remained almost unchanged.
  
  First of all, as may mentioned, the automatic levels are flat out boring. I am right now in act 
 4 and not much has changed from the tutorial. Btw, i know that i am in act 4 right now, because 
 the game told me, not because i experienced it.
  
  About 4 (Town, Subway, Sewer, Alien Space Ship, Cathedral) tilesets all the time.
  The same monsters, 
 about 8 different types, with no correlation to your surrondings are boring as hell.
  Quests go the same way, slay 10 zombies or collect 10 zombie fingers in random tile set Town, when 
 you just killed 20 spectres in tile set sewer.
  
  It's tedious to determine the real item value. Your stash is to small, and the icons are hard to 
 identify.
  The chat systems is a bad joke. The chat window itself will block out parts of the interface. It 
 is inactive by default (hello, this is an mmo) , so almost no one seems to read or write there.
 
  Multiplayer is laughable. It's a tedious task to create a group. The only way to find a suitable 
 partner is use the chat, which no one reads.
  This game is Single player online .
  
  The skill trees are in my humble opinion dull, others may see this differently.
  The option that 
 you can't respec is ok, but then they should give the player interesting content to start over 
 and over again to test out new skills. As this is not the case, i find it mindnumbling, to put 
 a point in a new skill, just to find out, that it's is completly worthless, because you can't have 
 this and a former skill active at the same time, and the tooltip did not said so.
  
  Technical difficulties:
  Quite often you will encounter a Network error , that disconnects you, 
 so you can run another 15 Minutes to your quest objective from the start.
  This is especially annoying, if you have to travel through more than 2 zones to reach another.
 
  DX9 games runs flawlessly here. While the DX10 part worked ok (except for performance) in the 
 beta, i now encounter lockups even while in character selection, but this may relate to the new 
 nvidia philosophy Every new DX10 games deserves a new beta driver build .
  I didn't found more serious bugs though. Small glitches and interface errors are common but can 
 easily worked around.
  
  Founders offer, subscribing and advertising.
  
  Right now i haven't subscribed. The advantage to subscribers are small to none at the moment. except 
 for a larger bankstash you just get nonsense, which can turn out to be quite annoying, like season 
 drops all over until your inventory explodes.
  Even if they made the subscription features free, i do not see, how this would make the game any 
 better.
  Maybe in the future, when they add new and REAL content, this game may live up to the hype.
  
 The Advertisement that you get, even when you pay monthly, is not that bad and you will rarely 
 notice it. The EULA which EA put in place on the other hand is annoying.
  
  The Forum:
  I think FSS has a good reason to open the forum only to account holders, because having them read 
 by everyone would certainly hit there sales.
  
  Closing comments, diablo, titan quests are miles ahead of this hack and slash game, but with the 
 money from the sales and the monthly revenues, maybe the have the ressources to polish this game 
 or release the real diablo successor Mythos , bye the same company.
  Untill then i will have to find another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaStOfThE
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, I gave it a shot - good thing I didn't buy it.
  The graphics are pretty good, but don't justify the ammount of resources needed to play the game. 
 Sound is OK, but it could've use some more music.
  The gameplay is monotonous - hordes of monsters to slaughter.
  The weapons are poorly balanced; 
 I had some insect swarm throwing thingy and I could've wipe all of the enemies just standing still 
 and being patient...
  Dialogs... well, the're not spoken dialogs, wich seems to me a very poor game design choice. It's 
 simply unforgivable not to be able to squeeze some dialogs in 6 GB of data.
  
  All in all, the hype was false. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  okay so i played game single player all is fine in world, wiht dx 10 game is fun all that game 
 spot side pretty much sums it up, but when you try to play mutil player, its not playable.
  
  it seems that for some reason when you go to play the game, u chose mutil player screen dosnt 
 load correctly, it all distroberd image is black you can hear sound effects just can not see anything.
 
  
  like i said thought this problem is not in single player when you play single player so it seems 
 like it mutile player thing only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caitsith777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Alright... this is how it goes. I've been reading quite a few of these reviews posted here and 
 it has infuriated me to the point where I feel the need to do one myself to put aside all the false 
 statements put on this game.
  
  To start this off I want to put a certain accusation to rest already. I constantly hear people 
 complain how they give you an incomplete game because you have to pay monthly in order to get all 
 of its features, but look at it this way. Consider other MMO's such as the current leader WoW, 
 or just about any other decent MMO out there, they all ask you to pay monthly in order to even 
 PLAY the game. Atleast Hellgate allows you the opportunity to even play without a monthly fee (also 
 the monthly fee for hellgate is cheaper than WoW's) . This is a very smart move by flagship, this 
 gives people the chance to play this game even if they don't have the money on hand to pick up 
 the monthly fee. And don't think just because you aren't paying they aren't going to give you your 
 moneys worth. I've been playing this game for a while now and have yet to pay monthly and this 
 has become one of my favorite games. So don't go thinking buying this game is worthless if you 
 do not plan on paying monthly, because you can enjoy this with or without being a subscriber.
 
  
  Another thing I consistently hear throughout all the bad reviews is the levels are all the same. 
 Well... what did you expect ? Think about it, the game is set in London where you have to defend 
 your territory from the invading darkness. This means you are going to stay in London, so a change 
 in atmosphere would really go against everything the game is trying to put across. By saying the 
 environment is too similar is like being mad at Gran Turismo for every level being on a street. 
 The game is set in London so the setting will be London throughout, except for the occasional visit 
 into Hell. By asking for a more diverse atmosphere just shows how little of an understanding you 
 have for this game.
  
  One real quick thing which I've seen on a few reviews as well is concerning the graphics. People 
 have said this game's graphics are not next-gen and all I have to say to you is... were your eyes 
 even open when you played this game !? Seriously ! If you have the computer to handle it, turn 
 the graphics all the way up and see how it looks... its fantastic. Of course if you turn them down 
 they are nothing near impressive but thats expected... I mean... you turned them DOWN. When at 
 its full potential this game is beautiful.
  
  One more thing I can say about this game is with the bugs. I hear nonstop complaints of the current 
 bugs that came with the release, but once again WHAT DO YOU EXPECT !? This is the very first title 
 from this studio and it was released about a week ago, there are going to be bugs. Me being a big 
 fan of the MMO genre i've played quite a few myself. I've been playing WoW since beta and let me 
 tell you, even the almighty flawless WoW had many bugs when it first came out. Bugs and MMOs are 
 best friends and you will never be able to seperate them and if you attempt to say a game is bad 
 simply because of bugs then you are an incompetent moron. Also it isn't like bugs are permanent, 
 what do you think patches are for ? They have already patched twice within this first week alone 
 and have gone through and fixed some of these bugs and many more to come. Basically what I am saying 
 is give this game a little time to figure out what it's doing and they will be on track and have 
 everything up and running smoothly. Now that I am done discussing the supposed flaws of Hellgate, 
 I can finally explain the great things about this game. I have to give flagship much kudos for 
 releasing this game the way they did. They are the first I've seen to really try anything new. 
 You look at all the other MMO's coming out or that have already been released and they all follow 
 the same guidelines. No one pushes the boundaries anymore. Flagship comes around and and they tried 
 something new, they mixed the FPS and the MMORPG to become one great concept. They have made the 
 RPG more realistic in my opinion. This was done by instead of making you just go 1v1 with random 
 little npcs you have to fight an entire army of creatures. They are not mindless little cpu that 
 just stand there and wait for you to come to them and sit around and watch as you kill off their 
 friends. You shoot at one guy in this game and you see an army following. You must lay waste to 
 the myriad of soldiers that beckon forth from the darkest depths of the universe. Now how can you 
 not have fun doing that ? But with that being said I must say this game is not for everyone. This 
 game applies to a certain group of gamers, those who don't mind a little bit of mindless hack n' 
 slash and are big fans of the diablo 2 series. You will come across some situations where you find 
 yourself just consistently clicking your mouse and a horde of demons, but then right after you 
 will be fighting a boss that involves alot of running around, hitting at opportune times, and lots 
 of strategy. The difficulty in this game is fantastic between average npcs and the boss fights. 
 There are different fighting strategies for every situation thrown at you. Sometimes you will be 
 faced with 10,000,000 small enemies that just gang up on you where you will be forced to do a lot 
 of AoE spells or skills, there is also the huge enemies that come around with loads of health and 
 high dmg where you need to dodge and hit hard to take him down. The comes boss fights which vary 
 dependent on the boss. One other thing I think is amazing in this game is the diversity in weapons. 
 The customization you can put into your weapons is extremely open. Each weapon has different elemental 
 status effects with it along with the numerous mods you can insert to add an endless amount of 
 effects to the weapon. But I think I should end this before I end up writing a strategy guide over 
 this entire game. All in all this game mixes every aspect very well and gives you loads of fun 
 and an extremely high replayability value.
  
  
  
  If there is one thing you gained from this review let it be this. This game is a fantastic game 
 and do not listen to the brainless reviews that say otherwise. Though I must repeat that this game 
 is not for everyone, but if you are a fan of Diablo 2, enjoy MMOs and the occasional FPS, enjoy 
 a bit of hack n' slash, or youre just not another idiotic gamer that only likes Madden, Halo, and 
 Guitar Hero (not saying that any of those are bad... well except Madden, that game sucks) then 
 I suggest purchasing Hellgate: London. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tontin1973
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure this is the right successor to Diablo 2. It is definitely fun and the action is fast 
 paced. I do like the classes and customizable, randomized loot collecting. There are some interface 
 nuisances like trying to upgrade gear your wearing must be unequipped and the chat system is not 
 intuitive. Multiplayer is fun but extremely buggy. I frequently get booted off servers in the middle 
 of play and the game sometimes locks up completely when zoning. I have seen some graphical glitches 
 like disappearing players and getting stuck in geometry. These things will hopefully get fixed 
 with time as most games do. So I'm giving it a score of 8.5 because it is enjoyable despite its 
 buggy release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedshutters
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  Back when Hellgate: London was announced I was pretty excited, like many other Diablo fans. It 
 had been years since the release of the Diablo 2 expansion with still no word of Diablo 3. Flagship's 
 Hellgate announcement was a blessing to our ears. Demons, guns, how could you go wrong? Not to 
 mention that it was being developed by ex-Diablo 2 team members. Sadly, Hellgate falls short of 
 being the spiritual successor to Diablo. Well, I guess it's back to waiting for Diablo 3.
  
  Once you boot up the game, be patient and watch the introductory movie - as it is one of the 
 best intro movies since Dawn of War. The movie is both well done technically and artistically, 
 not to mention a treat to watch. There's plenty of action, suspense, and heart warming moments. 
 Sadly, once the movie is over and the menu boots up, its all down hill from here.
  
  Classes:
  
  There's six classes to choose from, two for each fraction. The Templars, we have 
 the Guardian and Blademaster. The Hunters, we have the Marksman and Engineer. And lastly the Cabalists, 
 we have Evokers and Summoners. Each fraction focuses on one type of combat. The Templars are melee 
 specialists. The Hunters focus on ranged combat. The Cabalists are magic users. Each class plays 
 differently and checking out.
  
  However, Flagship does not make it easy for you to have multiple characters. As during your adventures, 
 you'll be picking equipment that is not only for your own class but for other classes which you 
 cannot wear or wield. Rather than being able to save this equipment for your other characters, 
 you are forced to disassemble or sell this equipment as there is no way to transfer items between 
 your characters. Flagship should have taken some lessons from ArenaNet's Guild Wars as Hellgate 
 would have greatly benefited from it.
  
  Story:
  
  Demons have invaded London. Humans are forced to hide underground and all the while trying to restore 
 mankind. As interesting as that may sound, Hellgate manages to suck all the potential fun and excitement 
 from that premise. This is largely due to the delivery of the story. Most NPCs do not have spoken 
 dialog and therefore you are forced to read little blurbs of uninspiring text. Actually, don't 
 even bother to read the text as they will almost always have nothing interesting to say. The only 
 reason you'll want to talk to NPCs is to receive quests which consists of kill certain a number 
 of monsters, gathering a certain number of item drops, killing a specific monster, getting to a 
 certain area. Honestly, how does Flagship expect this game to sell with quests as boring as real-life 
 chores. However, Hellgate really isn't about the story, but the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  If you saw any of the screenshots of Hellgate prior to its release, then you might have thought 
 FPS with RPG elements (like System Shock 2, Oblivion) . As many of the screenshots were from the 
 FPS view. This, however, is the wrong way to approach Hellgate. Because if you do, you WILL be 
 disappointed. To get any fun out of Hellgate, you must realize it is not a FPS with RPG elements, 
 but a hack 'n slash RPG disguised as a FPS. The FPS view isn't even available for some classes. 
 Now that we have squared away, let's talk gameplay.
  
  If you've played Diablo, Dungeon Siege, Titan's Quest, you'll feel right at home here. The gameplay 
 consists of killing monsters, collecting items, leveling up, rinse and repeat. No surprises here. 
 There is no ammo so feel free to hold down the mouse button. If you're playing single player, you'll 
 have no problem as the difficulty is laughable easy. The only reason you'll die is if you get caught 
 off guard and monsters manage to surround you making it impossible for you to escape.
  
  If you're playing Multiplayer, it will be slightly more fun for you, if you have friends or can 
 find a party to join. If you've played Guild Wars, you'll be disappointed. Even though Hellgate 
 is being geared as being a MMO game, it doesn't even have good party mechanics aside from being 
 able to play in a party. However, these mechanics aren't really needed as traditional party roles 
 (tank, healer, support, etc.) are not as essential. You could have a party full of Marksmen, or 
 a party of Evokers and do just fine. This is fine I guess, but it doesn't promote class diversity 
 however it makes it easier for you to join parties regardless of what you're playing.
  
  You can't mention Multiplayer without mentioning the subscription-based content. If you play $10 
 a month, you will get access to subscriber only content - stuff like new areas, shops, items, and 
 possibly new classes. I am not clear of exactly what this content is, since I am not a subscriber 
 and never will be. Normally this content would be saved up for an expansion but it is sad to see 
 Flagship take this route. Once you stop subscribing, say goodbye to the content as well. To actually 
 own this content, you need to be a lifetime subscriber which will cost you a one time cost of $150 
 instead of the $10 a month. $150 for expansion type content? No thanks.
  
  A. I.:
  
  Once you step foot in enemy territory, you'll find monsters roaming around aimlessly. Once they 
 spot you they'll either rush at you for a melee attack or hit you with a ranged attack until you 
 die or they die. Yawn. This is the same for every monster you'll ever encounter. And because of 
 these mindless monster, it won't take much to kill these little buggers.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are pretty decent, but don't expect Crysis or even Guild Wars. Hellgate's graphics 
 engine is one of the most poorly written and broken engines I've seen so far for a retail game. 
 Numerous bugs, graphical or not, have made it to the final release, such as the invisible player 
 character and the stuck on autofire bug. It doesn't matter how high end your PC may be or how low 
 you adjust the graphical settings, you will run into extreme frame rate drops. This will mainly 
 occur in areas with a large number of monsters or a large number of special effects taking place 
 e. g. during online co-op play. Besides the graphical bugs and poor performance, the environments 
 are rather bland which is unavoidable with randomly generated levels. Why should there even be 
 randomly generated levels? Flagship claims it adds replay value. Nope. No matter what level it 
 is, it's the same old craggy wall ruins and flaming barrels. All the levels feel the same with 
 no personality what so every.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is pretty good, good effects, and ambient sound. The NPC voices are bad and silly at 
 times. They sound like cartoon characters. Most NPCs will blurt out a phrase or two that has nothing 
 to do with their dialog. These are a sorry excuses of trying to hide the fact that there is no 
 spoke dialog for them. This might have been okay years ago but no so today. At least have the first 
 chuck of dialog be spoken ala Baldur's Gate.
  
  Look &amp; Feel:
  
  The user interface is decent. It works. I've seem worse. However, the inventory doesn't seem as 
 intuitive as compared to Diablo. The inventory needs constant attention for clean up, clear out, 
 and the rearranging of items. Trying to figure out what item fits in what slot seems awfully subtle. 
 Flagship has managed to suck the fun out of outfitting your character with new equipment. Character 
 stats screens and tabs take some getting use to. The guns in the game, don't feel at all like guns. 
 They feel like pea shooters and sling shots. The weapons feel so weak, it's like you're playing 
 laser tag.
  
  Overall:
  
  Despite all this, there is some fun in Hellgate. Killing things and collecting new loot is fun. 
 The question is how long 'til you get bored of this. Hellgate boasts of replay value, but the gameplay 
 is so repetitive you'll get sick of it in a week. Remember the sore index finger from Diablo? It's 
 back for Hellgate. Those playing online will have more fun as playing in a party is ten times better 
 than in the singleplayer. But don't expect a revolutionary experience with or without the subscriber 
 content. If you still want to play this game, my suggestion is to wait for a price drop - this 
 will give Flagship time to iron out the bugs too, unless bug fixes are for subscribers only too.
 
  
  Pros:
  +Kill monster/found loot has a fun factor
  +Multiplayer experience is fun
  +Uninspiring but decent graphics
  +Sound effects, ambient is pretty good
  
  Cons:
  -Buggy
 
  -Poor graphics engine
  -Almost no story, poor story delivery
  -Voice acting is laughable and down right silly at times
  -Environments are bland
  -Enemy A. I. 
 has no brains
  -Point and shoot, hack and slash, no strategy needed what so ever
  -Poor content delivery strategy
  
  System used:
  AMD Athlon 3800 X2 (OC'ed to 2.6 Ghz)
 
  2 gig ram PC3200 Dual Channel
  ATI 1950XT 256 Ram
  Windows XP - SP2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ungivenglory
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  The days of Diablo 2 are coming back, mindlessly clicking and enjoying every second of it. Having 
 only heard a little about the game prior to actually playing the demo, I had not felt the pressure 
 of the hype, nor was I really into it. After downloading and playing the demo, however, I was hooked. 
 The demo, although short and limited, felt very promising that Flagship Studios have brought the 
 Diablo days back and made them prettier.
  
  Picked up the game on launch day and put a good 8 hours into it that night. My first impression 
 was great, everything seemed fine to start ( minus the fact that servers weren't working until 
 much later in the night ) After playing as a blademaster ( Melee class ) I had decided that I would 
 like to play as an engineer, as the sword classes feel all too familiar. Having the ability to 
 use guns is a nice change, and definately mixes up the classes much more.
  
  Playing with friends was easy enough. I did however find that the interface still needs a little 
 love, but I am more than willing to overlook that. Having spent time leveling to 15, I found myself 
 still liking the game very much, but disappointed as to the lack of scenery changes, the tunnel 
 system gets very repetitive and lackluster quick. Continuing on I found that farming for better 
 items, and the infinite race to upgrade them and add mods is as fun as ever, and in my opinion 
 one of the better parts of the game. Though I would have given this game a higher rating ( and 
 would have initially ) as I play more I feel this game is unfinished, and is indeed missing a lot 
 of content. The subscription model FSS decided to use, I feel would benefit almost any mmorpg. 
 If WoW was free but had an item cap, and level cap of lets say 20, more people would play and get 
 a taste of what they are missing out on w/o subscribing. However, I disagree with the way FSS has 
 followed it, it appears that they want you to subscribe now.. for content that is not out yet. 
 One may argue and say well they had Halloween and Guy Fawkes themed stuff but these small quest 
 items, and annoying unlimited quest drops are far from worth the subscription price.
  
  As it stands I have yet to finish the game, I know I will, and I know I will enjoy it. I feel the 
 game is too short without even finishing it, and that even though subscribing offers elite and 
 nightmare modes, it still is not enough for myself to consider subscribing. My final verdict would 
 be, that I have high hopes for the future of Hellgate: London, the hard working folks of Flagship 
 Studios have a great, ambitious engine with tons of potential. I will finish the game, but I will 
 not subscribe until there is a ton of more content, more depth, more length, and hopefully a change 
 of scenery. Pick this game up if you want quick, easy fun, but don't invest yourself too much into 
 it, this game still needs some love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Augusten
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Diablo and Diablo 2 taught us repetitive doesn't have to equal boring. Hellgate: London teaches 
 us how hard it is to pull that off.
  
  The game starts out well enough, with exploration of randomly generated instances of London streets, 
 subway tubes, sewers, and maintenance tunnels. It starts to feel repetitive, but once in a while 
 a special environment is thrown in like the British Museum; though sadly, said museum is decorated 
 solely with a single type of statue and urns. No matter, you'll soon reach Act 2 and explore new 
 territory!
  
  Except you don't. Act 2 contains the same London streets, subway tubes, sewers, and maintenance 
 tunnels, as do Acts 3, 4, and 5. Additionally, the randomness starts to wear thin; these environments 
 can only be laid out so many ways. The fact is you've seen 90% of the environments Hellgate has 
 to offer after an hour or two of playing. Sometimes you'll enter gates into hell... to discover 
 hell always consists of a single small platform and temple.
  
  There is a little more variety in the enemies you face, although again, most are recycled through 
 all five acts. Quests are the standard get that , kill those , and deliver this , unfolding a vaguely 
 interesting storyline.
  
  Unlike the large variety of skills available to characters in Diablo 2 (3 trees of 10 skills each 
 per character class) , Hellgate's 6 character classes each have a single skill tree and the same 
 skills are recycled between classes. More disappointing, both unlocking new skills and upgrading 
 your existing skills often feels underwhelming, having little effect on gameplay.
  
  Where Flagship has succeeded is itemization. In fact, gameplay and character development is centered 
 almost totally around items. The variety of weapons and their effects is impressive, as is the 
 ability to modify and upgrade your equipment. Drops change dramatically as you progress through 
 the game. Essentially, Hellgate comes down to a grind, not to explore new areas, or level your 
 character, but to upgrade your equipment.
  
  Despite its flaws, Hellgate would merit a 7 out of 10 rating if it hadn't been released in a ridiculously 
 buggy state. Having been in the beta myself, I'm aware of dozens of game breaking bugs that went 
 unfixed. Most notably, item loss. As I write this, the servers have been down for hours as Flagship 
 attempts to fix an issue causing most of a characters inventory to disappear. Characters in stations 
 (towns) are randomly teleported to the center, equipping pets can cause item loss on logoff, random 
 rollbacks reverse character advancement, several skills fail to work or work poorly , the list 
 goes on and on.
  
  But Flagship does have a cure for the boredom. For the low price of $120 a year ($9.99 a month) 
 they promise to add new content. Yes, your $49 didn't buy you a complete game. In fact the complete 
 game doesn't exist yet, but if you are willing to pay again, one day they promise to deliver it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thysmith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Great game Great Ideas just needs some fine tuning and some people to help with that, should be 
 good in a couple months as of now its just really buggy and needs player help to fix these kinds 
 of things.
  
  I'm am super tired of hearing people complain on the form at least be constructive and tell them 
 what needs to be fixed not just whine about B. S. that isn't what they wanted. OH and heck yea its 
 was over hyped probably should have spent more time in the beta, would have lead to less whining.
 
  
  with all thats been said about the game and all the problems it has i still give it a 8.5 or 9 
 because its just a flat out good game and will continue to get better and better, aside from that 
 no more 25 man 5 hour raids.
  
  Thysmith 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chihchia
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  I have to say: I love this game. I believe people who love Diablo loot style game will love this 
 game too. The problem is this game is FULL OF BUGS. I played beta 3 weeks before it released and 
 most of bug are carried over to the official game. Prepare to experience a lot of frustrations 
 and crashes if you are going to get this game right now. The other thing I hate is the subscription, 
 they kind to cut 1/4 of the content should been in normal version for subscription only. That is 
 not right. Look at the other people from their formal Diablo team's success on Guild Wars. They 
 just don't realize that subscription only scare away more potential players.
  It seems this game is being rushed out by some reason. Either EA is greedy and want it out by Halloween 
 or FSS is in trouble and need cash in right away, there is no way they should release such a immature 
 game like this. Sad!!!
  Again I LOVE this game and I will keep playing it (no subscription though) . But I will recommend 
 people don't buy this game right now. Wait a few month until it is stable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandwerks
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the basic concept:
  
  Take a ferocious whirlwind fighting game with level progression and skillsets nearly identical 
 to Diablo 2, add in the intensity of FPS combat of a DOOM 3 during maximum berserk mode in the 
 midst of hell, and then add in instanced main and optional secondary quests Guild Wars style to 
 maximize server loads and ensure no lag or connection issues get in the way of gameplay.
  
  And did I mention Fear-type graphics within a highly optimized engine that purrs - at least graphically 
 speaking when it is running?
  
  Sounds like the perfect game to me - which is about the time trouble comes to paradise.
  
  
 Someone ultimately has to be asleep at the wheel at Flagship when it comes to making key decisions 
 on functionality, purpose, and final enjoyment. Let's start with some minor tidbits such as:
  
  - Vista stability issues - on many different systems tested (ranging from 7900 to 8800 / SLI 
 vs non / DX9 vs DX10, etc) the system will not run longer than thirty minutes without becoming 
 unstable and crashing
  
  - Environmental Design - 80% of the game centers around literally and only three of the same identical 
 environments - an underground railroad track, and underground tunnel, and a gray city. It gets 
 very hold and extremely repetitive very quickly, and takes away from the spirit of the game.
  
  - Level Design - on that note, nearly every level is identical to the last, recycling minor 
 edits of layout and purpose (some don't even change - regardless of location) . Some innovation 
 exists for randomization that can truly be a remarkable move for gamemakers, but a Diablo 2 with 
 its lush, very different, and very innovative environments (for the time) it is not!
  
  - Storage / Communications / Multiplayer - no storage (unless you pay an extra $100 extra a year 
 to effectively double your bank vault size) , the worst and most intrusive chat ever created that 
 removes any community approach to gameplay and sharing experiences, and a system that nearly removes 
 any true multiplayer value that could possibly be conceived.
  
  Gameplay wise, this game does feature the most intense combat I've ever played post level 20 (even 
 from Fear, HL, Doom, Quake, COD, MOH, etc.) . There is nothing out there that is equivalent to having 
 your back against the wall and fighting 200 minions at once, coming from the ground, the sky, underneath 
 you, etc. Personally I love the talent trees and skill classes as well, as there truly is many 
 variations of gameplay, and each will give you a completely different role and outlook on the game.
 
  
  Sadly though, it seems that the game developers have opted for attention to figuring out a way 
 to take an extra $10 a month from gameplayers, than to truly focus and work on the potential of 
 this game. Kudos to them for an extremely innovative and solid weapon and armor system, but I'd 
 take solid level design and some intriguing plot developments over their creation of bonfire treats 
 and baked potato recipes anyday.
  
  Some extreme planning issues here. Even when Flagship takes their game down for maintenance and 
 patches, they were not thoughtful enough to put their forum and content online sections on a dif 
 server. So for their staged outages (so they can upload puddings, pork meals, and bread - all my 
 preferences when fighting Hell's onslaught) you have no access to anything regarding the game. 
 Only a one to three page splash screen. Ironically that announces what they are doing for people 
 who pay them an extra $10 a month. Top this off with their GM s decision to give Halloween treats 
 and access to zompets to everyone who bought the game when their server was down for a day during 
 launch, only to snatch them back up and make everything unusable once the game came back online.
 
  
  Unless of course you want to again pay them $100 a year - for content that by their own self-admittance 
 does not even exist yet. And when it does, it intrudes on the gameplay value of non-subscribers, 
 by constantly rubbing their faces into special additions they cannot access (even though they may 
 be forced to loot!) unless they pay their additional subscriber fees.
  
  Too much prostitution here looking for a way to suck the money from our pockets, not enough common 
 sense and logical follow through where it counts in level development, story creation, and true 
 long term value.
  
  Subsequently, a game that could have been World of Warcraft popularity as an FPS extreme shooter 
 in Hell with years of value and gamplay worth, turns into a game that might last one week (if lucky) 
 on your favorites list. End summary: an extreme FPS shooter that has its moments, but count on 
 being disturbed by repetition and poor programming decisions from day one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Realmjumper
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  This is my last review for the game. If you've been counting it's the fourth time i've reviewed 
 this game hoping it would change for the better.
  
  I've been following Flagship before they were even that. Same goes for Hellgate: London.
  Played 
 beta, demo, and release. Bought the collector's edition and am a Founder's subscriber (150$) I 
 will cover everything I can, as short as I can.
  
  The collector's edition is a good deal for 60 dollars. You get a well made making of hellgate london 
 dvd. Very nice concept and class art with slideshows/music. All the trailers as well and a nice 
 box. A map of the game as well in case you're lost. Also the comic book is great.
  
  I will break down the game into five parts. Gameplay, graphics, storyline, customer service, and 
 community.
  
  The gameplay is great because with the random generated levels you never see the exact same layout 
 all the time. However this game is all about warehouses, sewers, streets, basically a slum filled 
 game. Flagship released the game too early and it shows. However it grows on you and later acts 
 bring fresh new areas. 
  
  The skills though is something that should be redone. Unfortunately the devs have said they don't 
 plan on redoing them. Also hardcore mode is not soloable all the way and you need to grind to survive 
 with certain classes. To top it off the developers have said this is working as intended. A group 
 beat the last boses in over 6 hours though but who the heck wants to fight a boss for that long. 
 
  
  The bugs that were at launch are still there. Suffice to say though some of them have been fixed 
 with the latest patch. I have not crashed but my settings are on medium instead of high. Memory 
 leak bug is still out there and being worked on. However the Flagship staff is severely inexperienced 
 at it shows greatly. 
  
  Graphics are great and direct x 10 has some nice effects like smoke, dynamic lightning, blurriness 
 while turning etc. Problem is you need a powerhouse rig to run the game at this setting. The game 
 is not optmized as well as it should be. It still looks nice on medium though.
  
  Havok physics add to the atmosphere and you can use the environment to dispatch enemies quickly. 
 Slice barrels, blow up co 2 cartridges etc and stuff goes boom. There is never a dull moment in 
 hellgate: london.
  
  The storyline is decent at best due to it being complicated for no good reason. With the CGI you 
 get some very nice scenes but there just aren't that many. Most of them are a book and you hear 
 one of the characters talking. The other CGI was no doubt done by Blur Studios. It's possible Flagship 
 did the end CGI but I doubt it. 
  
  I was happy how the game ended though and it leaves it open for continued addition to the storyline. 
 
  
  Now on to the customer service. It is in one word totally lackluster. If you call the number you 
 can immediately tell they've outsourced it. Yes it's an Indian lady at the other end. This is bad 
 because half the time they do not understand what you're trying to say.
  
  Secondly if they wouldn't have outsourced it they you would at least have some people in the states 
 that understand your frustrations with the game. For all I know someone half across the world couldn't 
 give a rat's ass that my game keeps crashing.
  
  Besides that when you e-mail them many of their replies are automated. Also numerous times have 
 there been typos. This is so unprofessional it's insane. Also you CANNOT get a refund through them 
 for your subscriptions. Lets just say I'm going to be disputing my Lifetime's Subscription with 
 my credit card company.
  
  Reason being they just pulled a bait and switch. They advertised 24 character slots for subscribers 
 only. Instead of giving people without a subscription 10 they went ahead and gave em the 24 for 
 free.
  
  That's right completely free. Which means those that paid for subscription just got baited and 
 switched. You still get to use items that non subscribers don't use but half the time they are 
 more combersome than you think.
  
  Imagine having a Warhammer Online event where you pick up your enemies ears, arms, and make recipes. 
 Problem is you can only find ears and hardly any arms. Also you seem to be finding so many recipe's 
 that they clog up your inventory. Sure you could destroy them but that's not the point.
  
  Also you have this one recipe you can't get rid of cuz you crossed into nightmare mode. So you're 
 forced to literally exploit the engine to get rid of the stupid item clogging your inventory. How 
 would you feel?
  
  I'll tell you how I feel. I feel like I could make a better game with a pencil and paper. No kidding 
 here folks the content is usually rushed and not well though out. Tack in the customer service 
 and well you get the idea...
  
  Moving on we have the lovely welcoming heart warming community. NOT! If you thought the World of 
 Warcraft forums were bad, hah! At least you got mods there. Half the time in the Hellgate London 
 forums they got without any mods.
  
  Also the forums are restricted to those who own the game. Which means those that don't won't know 
 how bad it can get. The community is torn and here is why.
  
  From day 1 there was NO mention of subscription. This came out about 3 months before launch. 3-6 
 months at the most. It was like a slap in the face. It was as if Diablo never existed. For 10 years 
 Diablo 2 has been free to play on battle. net and so has every other Blizzard game.
  
  This was the ultimate knife in the back, the ultimate betrayal, and I was stupid enough to fork 
 down 150$ for it. Which I will get getting back in a week or two.
  
  In conclusion Hellgate: London was supposed to have been so much more. Bill Roper instilled faith 
 in his followers. He is a great man but when it comes down to management Flagship failed and failed 
 hard.
  
  Their inexperienced developers released the game when it wasn't time to. The game needed honestly 
 about 6-12 months more to be polished. In the making of DVD bill says and I quote "Flagship studios 
 was founded with the concept to make great games."
  
  Well Hellgate: London is a great game but it that does not make it a good one. There is no doubt 
 Flagship will learn an immonumental amount of from their mistakes. That does not mean they won't 
 commit them again. 
  
  There is communication between the community but instead of giving people refunds they totally 
 change the subject on you when you contact them. Also they really seem not to care as much as they 
 should. 
  
  To conclude Hellgate: London is a game that was not executed well. I think they should of stayed 
 2D as Mythos their 2D game is much better some day. If you're interested in this game you should 
 definately Ebay it but don't pay full price. 
  
  I think 1up. com summed it up best. This game deserves a 4.0 out of 10. 
  I'll definately be getting 
 my money back for Founder's offer. I just feel hurt that a company could do this. Especially with 
 Bill Roper being one of the men in charge. 
  
  Honestly I feel like he should be ashamed of himself to release a game like this. Don't get me 
 wrong I enjoyed it. It's all the other little things that compound to one big heart ache. Hellgate: 
 London can burn in hell. (Definately quote me on that!)
  
  -Pros-
  Nice gameplay and graphics.
  Some good parts to the storyline and CG movies.
  Nice moddable 
 weapons and looting system.
  
  Cons
  It don't work right all the time.
  Confusing storyline.
  Subscription based system segregates community.
  Customer service which 
 is 1/10th that of Blizzard's
  Inexperienced development team
  Rushed buggy game.
  
  -Conclusion- Hellgate: London can burn in hell. /cry : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miskal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the game and I continue to enjoy the game the only problem I ever had was the 
 servers going down for a few hours on launch day. The game is well implemented and defiantly feels 
 like Diablo. The problem is when games like this get the press that this one has received then 
 they have to be perfect or they get hammered in reviews. If this game was developed by blizzard 
 there would be no complaints. How could people call this boring and play WoW with seven level 70 
 Characters or hell even one. WoW is just as repetitive and if support for this game continues the 
 subscriber content may one day reach WoW's capacity. These guys evolved the game they created into 
 its newest form and it is still as fun and addicting as ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3degs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  Its the first game to combine both FPS shooter and RPG game that is fast paced. Hack and slash 
 or shoot your way through the levels. Solve quests and get experice points and up your lever of 
 your character. You can also improve your characters abillities but choose wisely as that does 
 impact how good your character will be with armor and shooting etc.
  
  Please note!
  I would like to say the DEMO is complete rubbish of what you get in full game online. So please 
 if you are interested give it some time and you will be hooked into the game.
  
  Also there is known bugs but most of those i had are gone now. Seems to be common in all new games. 
 Hate that. Anyway give the game some time and you will love that you did. Iam not english speaking 
 so there is probarly some wrong spelling everywhere. But i feelt that i had to write something 
 about this game. ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  If you don't know about this game you must live in a cave. I can sum it up for you..... DIABLO 
 3 . If you haven't heard of that one then I don't know where you've been! Anyways its an RPG! Some 
 people claim this game is Diablo 3, some don't. Its all opinion. Part of the team that made Diablo 
 made this game. and you can tell. And it even has major problems just like Diablo 2 did when it 
 started!
  
  The story. Demons on earth, portals... blah blah blah. Your stopping them.... you know the story. 
 Its nothing new really there.
  
  The graphics are as good as you want them to be. You can actually run this game on a computer thats 
 5 years old! I know the feeling! My computer is from 2001 and was upgraded in 05. But trust me 
 its SLOW. So I ran this game on mostly low settings and it was smooth and really wasn't bad at 
 all! So imagine it cranked up? This also has problems though. People have complained about some 
 graphic glitches with Nvidia cards. But then some say ATI cards give them problems now. Then theres 
 your typical glitches like clipping... etc. But the game has already had a few patches.
  
  The gameplay its self is like any RPG. Pick a class, customize your guy/girl.... fight, loot, buy, 
 level up... etc. There are some interesting ideas in this game they use. For one you can switch 
 between a third person view and a First person view.... more useful for your Marksman . Another 
 thing is most levels are random besides important levels obviously. So if you go fight lets say 
 in the Dank Sewers it can be one way and then lets say you exit that character and start a second 
 one (you can have ALOT) and go back to those sewers... guess what? Its totally diffrent! So replay 
 value is pretty high.
  
  The difficulty is hard though. It starts out pretty easy and you feel like the game is kinda crappy. 
 But rest assured if you don't know what your doing or mess around you will be demon food easily. 
 Another great feature is you can have three sets of weapon combos. Make set 1 your Katana and Gun, 
 maybe Set 2 your Katana and Shield, maybe set 3 your Katana and Grappler. Then press the keys for 
 the set you want to use at any time to instantly switch. You can't change the keys though. F1-F3 
 are your weapon set keys. Theres alot of gameplay to cover so if you really want to know alot check 
 out the boards and look up more info on the game.
  
  The controls are easy to. However it seems you can't use certain keys. In my case I can't use the 
 arrows which I always use to move. But no biggie. The music and sound are ok. I never really noticed 
 in RPG's. I am doing the single player right now and can''t really comment on the MP, but I seen 
 my friend online at this house and it looked even better!
  
  So what are some other flaws? Well there is a memory leak in the game. I think it may have been 
 fixed though. Like I said there is a ton of graphic problems. People are having problems with the 
 patches causing it to crash. Items are ending up being lost at random.... I guess its really nothing 
 diffrent then any new online RPG.... especially one thats basically Diablo 3. So overall I gave 
 it a 8.5, because I know they will fix its problems quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greeneyes702
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Playing as a evoker myself and it plays alot like a fps. How the game plays depends on your class 
 and the skills you select and use. Graphics are great , bugs? the game has worked flawlessly for 
 me. Had to tweak the graphics settings back a hair but the game still looks great. The music is 
 really good sound effects are good to things work great and each enemy has unique sounds sometimes 
 I hear them before I see them. The rpg elements are good to stat placement skill selection randomized 
 loot its all there even crafting. The lobbies are a little disappointing havent seen massive amounts 
 of players in there but there is usualy a few people in the lobbies. And grouping is preety easy 
 however the autoparty system doesnt seam to work for me this game could use a better auto grouping 
 system. The quests are quick and easy thanks to the instance system you never really have to travel 
 long distances except when your fighting your way somewhere for a quest or just to kill. This game 
 for me is highly replayable I have only been playing the evoker and while combat is slightly repetative 
 its no more repetative than say Halo for example. And while the combat can be repetative if your 
 following the quests there is nothing repetative about them you go from one strange twist to another 
 half of it doesnt make sense at least not at first. And quickly you branch out to diffrent areas 
 and meet new npc's and get better gear. If you want however you can just start clearing out random 
 areas that fit your level and simply level up by killing massive amounts of creepies. But to get 
 to the higher level areas you have to follow the main quest. If I had to compare this game to others 
 I would say UT Invasion meets Diablo. I recommend this game if it looks good to you from the videos 
 and images and you think you system can handle it. I have had a great time playing this game and 
 plan on having many more to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  It has been in the making for awhile now and finally has been released to you, the player. A game 
 that lacks a little bit but gives Flagship Studios a solid start into the world of entertainment.
 
  
  Hellgate: London places you in a Armageddon kind of atmosphere. Place? London, England. Some how, 
 Satan and his minions have decided to hit the human race head on. You can choose from several classes 
 and can customize them a little bit. Many of you are aware of Diablo II's knack for allowing you 
 to customize your weapons and armor with jewels for optimal attack and defense. Well, you certainly 
 get that here and then some. You get things called mods that let you modify your weapons.
  
  Hellgate: London may lack in certain areas but its fun value, graphics and surround sound soundtrack 
 is certainly a very big plus. However, the lack of class choices and character design could be 
 better. I give Hellgate: London a solid 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richteralan
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I've spend quite some time in playing this game.
  
  All the bugs many players mentioned seems not that obvious in my system so I can say more about 
 the game itself.
  
  Classes are broken. The Marksmen/Engineer class are very weak at the beginning fighting off rare/legendary 
 monsters. Where swords guy will be very weak later when facing a huge amount of monsters and summoners 
 who constantly replenishes monsters. :)
  
  Levels at the beginning is quite fun. But once you got into several levels deeper, you'll find 
 everything didn't change. Same levels more monsters and just different pathway is pretty boring.
 
  
  The monster placement has no gripping factor. Stack-it-up is a better term to describe it.
  
 
  Combat system is fun at the beginning but gets old REALLY fast. All the skills are not quickly 
 accessible even by leveling fast.
  
  GGs and Uninstalled.
  Note: When you uninstall please have your DVD ready. lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starbead
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The EULA for the game should worry ANY gamer or any computer user for that matter. It goes FAR 
 beyond what other online EULAs allow. This alone is reason to avoid the game like the plague.
 
  
  While the gameplay is fun at first, it never changes substantially. It gets repetitive fast. The 
 levels never give you a feel of London. The few level types they have are generic and reused endlessly.
 
  
  These problems plague the singleplayer and multiplayer portions of the game.
  
  The multiplayer is more disappointment. Despite claims by Flagship, it is no MMO. All the common 
 areas are instanced. You really never see a large number of players. Flagship loves to talk about 
 the extras that subscribers get. However, those extras are currently just things that should be 
 included in the box. They limit character slots in multi-player so they can rent them back to you 
 and call it a bonus, for example. They say that the optional fee covers content they will add in, 
 but the devil is in the details. For $10 a month, they are promising (roughly) quarterly updates. 
 That is enough money to buy a full expansion 3-4 times a year. There is no way that they will deliver 
 that amount of content; They aren't even promising to. And if you take a break from subscribing 
 until they actually release new content, your extra stash and characters and any gear you got in 
 subscriber areas will be locked.
  
  So, the singleplayer game is fun at first, but gets old fast. The free multiplayer is a stripped 
 down version of the singleplayer with the option to duel or PvP in 5 man groups. The Subscription 
 is a total ripoff. The game had Adware in addition to the fee, by the way. And the EULA alone is 
 enough to keep this one off your hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jg51_Spinne
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot going for it. They got a lot of the stuff right, but forgot or just don't know 
 how, to polish it up in the end. The introductory level is just abysmal. The intro voiceover does 
 not follow what you're doing, so it's rather pointless and hence annoying. I don't know whom they 
 picked to do the voiceover and who wrote the script, but both are really really bad. The voice 
 acting does nothing to convince you that you're in post-apocalyptic London. It's a total let down. 
 In fact, all the voice acting that I've run across so far has been terrible.
  The quests have been fairly repetitive so far. They've mostly been of the 'go get so many of these' 
 or the 'go kill so-and-so monster type'. A little more innovation in the kinds of quests would 
 be great. Look at Oblivion for pointers. The music and sounds suck.
  Graphics are ok. They can be really decent, but they can also really suck. The character animations 
 really suck.
  What this game does have going for it is the sheer variety of stuff that you can pick up. The main 
 storyline is also somewhat compelling.
  Don't buy this game.... yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  What can i say great RPG for all diablo fans.
  the game have so many options and so many cool things.
  the single player mode is a real fun 
 to play with a lot of action, cool skills and a great story. the game have so many weapons.
  there's a lot of fun maps, the enemies are pretty cool and colorful.
  the multyplayer mode is 
 great withe cool and new things.
  gameplay-10
  graphics-9
  sound-10
  value-9
  title-9
  story-9
  fast loading time.
  the system works great, the game is running well.
 
  a fun game for killing some time. one of the great RPG ever!!
  worth playing!
  buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bimble
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London is a game I've had plenty of fun playing, and on that alone I'd recommend picking 
 it up. You get a good amount of content and some very satisfying combat. Unfortunately you also 
 get lot a of bugs, a clunky-feeling interface, and lots of promises from the developers that they'll 
 be getting more features in Real Soon Now.
  
  Comparisons between this game and Diablo 2 are inevitable, since it's the same team (and they've 
 felt no reluctance to compare the game to Diablo 2 themselves) . So I'll get this out of the way: 
 If you enjoyed the compulsive item collection and random combat of Diablo 2, and don't mind a futuristic 
 setting and a 3D interface instead of an isometric one, you should be able to get into HGL with 
 no problem. Classes don't get as many skill options as they do in D2, but items are very diverse 
 in abilities and the stat restrictions on them will have you doing plenty of careful gear juggling/modding 
 as you level up.
  
  So the core theory of the game's playstyle is tried and true. You enter a station and get some 
 quests. You go into an instance and kill a bunch of enemies. You pick up a number of items and 
 complete your quests. Then you go back to a station, break down/sell the stuff you found, and turn 
 in your quests. Repeat. The level design is random, but frankly the tilesets wind up looking mostly 
 the same. Oh look, another brown underground level. Hey, now there's an outside level! But it's 
 still brown. Darn. You get an occasional storyline-related level that has a unique look, but there 
 are very few of them. It seems like the designers did put work into designing some varied tilesets, 
 but then the urge to make each Act have a visual theme left us with multiple instances per Act, 
 all looking too much like each other. In Diablo 2 it was easier to overlook because all zones were 
 connected to each other - it felt logical that everything would look the same. In HGL, all instances 
 are reached through portals, so they feel quite disconnected - and thus a player expects more variety 
 from them.
  
  Unlike Diablo 2 there's a subscription option. Where D2 needed an expansion pack to add to its 
 content, and has otherwise received no additional content over the years, the plan for Hellgate 
 is to add new content quarterly for those willing to support its development. We'll see how this 
 works out in the long run. For now the game is new, so there's no real extra content, and the first 
 subscriber-only event that's running now (Bonfire Night) feels pretty clunky and is rife with so 
 many extra quest items that several subscribers are wishing they could unsubscribe just to keep 
 them from dropping.
  
  And there we come to the problem of potential: There's a lot this game could be doing wonderfully, 
 but to do so it will take time and development. Whether or not it will ever realize that potential, 
 no one can say yet. But at least the game they deliver right now is fun, despite the problems with 
 it at launch.
  
  And yes, there are problems. Several major bugs have been fixed (many of them carried over from 
 beta) , but several others remain. The randomly-generated instances sometimes have tunnels disconnected 
 so you can't get to the end of the instance. Several quests are buggy, especially ones at the higher 
 levels that saw less testing during beta. Some skills don't work as advertised, and there's a lot 
 of balancing to be done between classes - some that seemed strong in the lower levels of the beta 
 are finding it difficult to progress in higher levels.
  
  There are also some glaring omissions from the interface and game features. There is no in-game 
 mail system. There is no auction house or market. There are guilds, but they're essentially extended 
 friends lists - you can invite, you can promote, and that's it. You can't add characters to your 
 friends list unless they're online at the time (curiously, the guild system lets you invite offline 
 players so they'll see the invite when they log in, a very nice feature) . The chat window is on 
 or off - no fading, no resizing, and no editing what channels you join or display on different 
 tabs. The system to look for a group is an autoparty toggle that MIGHT get you grouped with someone 
 else entering the same instance as you somewhere close to the same time, but generally yields no 
 result.
  
  The inventory system is similar to Diablo 2's at its initial release, but deserves a paragraph 
 of its own. There is no autosort option, so when your inventory is littered with small items you've 
 picked up and are taking up grid space that could be used by larger items, you have to reorganize 
 them by hand. One nice feature over D2 for inventory is the ability to dismantle unwanted items 
 for spare parts. Those parts are used to craft new items and to upgrade older items (to help weapons 
 and armor with nice features keep up with you in level until they become too expensive to upgrade) .
 
  
  The story is about what you'd expect from a game of this sort - invading demons, stop them, etc. 
 It's not a massive story, but I find there's enough meat there to satisfy me between zombie-slaughtering 
 sessions, despite complaints from elsewhere about a slim story. One often-overlooked feature of 
 the quest log interface is that you can get advice about quests from the companion you meet during 
 the tutorial instance, Murmur. Murmur adds to the storyline quest text, fleshing the story out 
 a bit and giving it more flavor. I assume they moved those additions to the story text to Murmur's 
 option so that the people who don't care about story don't have to skim really long quest entries, 
 but it's a very low-key option that's easy to miss until you're well along in the game.
  
  The music is excellent, but plays infrequently and at seemingly random times (I've often had blood-pounding 
 music start playing only after I'd killed a large group of monsters and had nothing left to fight) . 
 The sound is good, making enemies recognizable before you see them.
  
  My system doesn't let me test the graphics to their limits, so all I can really say on that score 
 is that if you have a lesser system (1.8 GHz Athlon here with a 7600 GS) , you can drop the graphical 
 options and still have a nice-looking, smooth experience.
  
  So again, my take on the game: It's fun. If it sounds like your cup of tea, buy it and play it. 
 You'll run into bugs, but most of it is a good time, killing demons and taking their stuff. The 
 developers have made a lot of promises about more content and features, so if you're easily frustrated 
 by a game crash that makes you start an instance over, wait a couple months before picking Hellgate 
 up to see if they deliver the bug fixes and additions. If you're thinking about subscribing, don't 
 bother yet - their first content patch is scheduled for December, wait to see how the early subscribers 
 react to it before spending more money on the game. There's plenty of non-subscriber content to 
 keep you busy until then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oafmwl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  When i heard about this game it was on the day it came out so i didnt play the beta or the demo. 
 I heard about how the game is nothing like D2 and people said not to go near this game and just 
 get something else. Well i got the game a few days after it came out with my friend because we 
 talked to people that had the game that i knew and said it was really fun and not to listen to 
 what people said about the game.
  
  HGL has that feel on what D2 had. You still got demons and undead walking around. You got your 
 Hack & slash like D2. You got your 6 basic classes like D2 before the ex-pac came out. I dont know 
 why people say this game is bad and when they do say its bad its about the crashing and the lag. 
 Maybe they need a new computer or something idk mines fine. And the game just came out there going 
 to be fixing up. If you played World of Warcraft when it first came out it wasnt prefect they had 
 to fix things. So let Flagship fix what needs to be fix dont cry on how bad the frame rate is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x3lnaga86
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Quick, short and simple review. This game is not Diablo nor is it the next-gen evolution of the 
 Diablo series. I truly think that the main development team behind the Diablo series did not make 
 this game and the group of people that made this game were just programmers.
  
  After having played both online and offline for a mere 3 hours, I could not bare to stand this 
 game another second. From the horribly made FMV and the truly shallow story you begin to doubt 
 why you even purchased this game. I for one am happy to be mindlessly hack and slashing my foes. 
 But in HGL I just don't feel compelled to keep playing this really boring hack fest and was obligated 
 to play through the first couple of instances because I was hoping for anything in this game to 
 prove me wrong.
  
  In all, This game ain't no Diablo and no matter how many patchs or expansions this isn't Diablo 
 and the hype that the team Flagship Studios put for this game was the only reason I even purchased 
 this totally undone, boring and random fetch quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme2571
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  its like taking Diablo to the next level in gaming and experiencing it in a FPS/RPG fashion.
  
  The addiction in this game are:
  
  FREE or SUBS can play! FPS mode or RPG style.
  
 
  TONS of LOOT when you kill regular NPCs, open chests and RARE / EPIC NPC spawns as well.
  
  Secret Passages with just a TREASURE ROOM full of goodies.
  
  TONS of differents WEAPONS 
 (Sticks, knives, Swords, Machines Guns, RPGs, Tactical Missles, SONIC ELECTRONIC BALLBREAKERS!)
 
  
  Blood Guts, Heads being sawed off with guns and swords, eerie screams and just pure madness! Got 
 friends? EVEN more fun, mobs are harder and plenty for all your online friends when teamed together.
 
  
  There is no NINJA looting and everyone gets their own share of the wealth.
  
  You can UPGRADE you gear / weapons with items you breakdown whether Legendary, Rares or just regular 
 greens.
  
  This game has alot of potential for addiction despite the current bugs. A Most ENJOYABLE GAME!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjolnir2
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  First off, I've got to say I really do enjoy this game - when I can play it.
  
  The bottom line is that this game is horribly bug-ridden. MOST players can only play for anywhere 
 from 30 mins to 2 hours before the game crashes due to a memory leak that was identified a LONG 
 time ago in early beta... and somehow still made it to retail.
  
  To add insult to injury, Flagship is currently adding subscriber-only content to the game, and 
 their patch that was supposed to fix the memory leak did no such thing. Who knows when this show-stopper 
 will be fixed.
  
  Other bugs I've encountered: - The invisible avatar. This usually happens when you port back to 
 a station. You can see your characters weapons sort of floating along, but no player character.
 
  
  - Game won't even launch. I get this mostly when I try to launch the game from the my games icon 
 (in Windows Vista) . The game crashes after the splash screen. If I navigate to the actual launcher. exe 
 file in the install folder, the game more of ten than not launches fine, but has crashed on me 
 several times.
  
  - Graphical corruptions. I've encountered all manner of graphical corruptions, mostly dealing with 
 my character, and usually something as benign as the model becoming discolored. This is usually 
 alleviated by changing your equipment back and forth.
  
  - Black launch screen. This is similar to the game crashing after the launch splash screen, but 
 instead of the game crashing, it just sits at a black screen and nothing happens. This is also 
 fixed mostly by not using the icon from the My Games folder.
  
  - Level won't load. Invariably this happens as I am porting back to sell loot and return - and 
 I end up losing legendary items because when I port back to the station, the load screen sits there 
 and spins, and nothing happens, forcing me to use the task manager to shut down the game. Infuriating 
 to say the least.
  
  - Invisible skill usage. On several occasions, My avatar (marksman) has been shooting with no sounds 
 or animation to show for it. I simply had to place my reticle over the enemy, and the enemies would 
 die - despite the fact that by all appearances, I wasn't shooting.
  
  - Locked shooting. This happened to me during a boss fight - my marksman wouldn't stop shooting, 
 no matter what buttons I hit. I had to port back to a station in order to get it to quit.
  
  These are just the ones I could think of off the top of my head.
  
  So with all those bugs 
 in mind... is Flagship patching the game to a workable status? Nope. They're adding in subscriber-only 
 content, and have NOT addressed the current, shoddy state of the game. Talk about infuriating.
 
  
  On the upside, the graphics are otherwise very polished, and all the classes I've played so far 
 have been very fun to play. The voice acting is passable, and the levels look very, very nice.
 
  
  This game has a lot going for it... it just needs to be fix to cash in on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game without hesitation - if the creators of Diablo2 were releasing a game along 
 similar lines, well it's a must have. I've been playing Hellgate (single player) for 6 or 7 hours 
 in total up to now - and in all, I like it - its good fun: good graphics, (not the absolute best 
 but then playability is more important than graphics) , great setting, interesting characters to 
 choose from, lots of skills and character upgrades and the ability to modify/upgrade almost all 
 equipment you find. So why then am I not raving about this game as the best ever, rather than just 
 saying its 'good fun'? I think the fundamental problem is that it has lost something in 'translation' 
 from a 3rd person hack and slash to what is essentially a 1st person shooter. One of the main reasons 
 people liked, (and continue to like) , Diablo2 was that in addition to the character generation 
 and loot grabbing, it has a coherent linear story, real plot development and excellent NPC characters. 
 Hellgate, in comparison doesn't have any of these. For example, it has some of the worst NPC characters 
 ever - they sound like village idiots! Why did Flagship not just have them read out their quests 
 instead of having them make stupid random outbursts? - I actually think that removing their voices 
 altogether would be preferrable to what we have now. Plot is another area which suffers - you don't 
 really get the feeling you are progressing in the game as it seems to be just one long monster-shoot 
 for no particular purpose. Even with the character upgrades to keep you interested, I think this 
 will get a bit boring after time. Fundamentally, this game is a halfway house trying to please 
 both RPG Diablo/NWN fans and 1st person shooter Halo/Bioshock fans: unfortunately you can't please 
 all of the people all of the time and I don't think it really represent a classic of either genre. 
 While it is good, and I would recommend it, I don't think that this game will stand the test of 
 time as well as Diablo has... pity really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angkawsw
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  This game reminds me more than just an upgraded version of Diablo 2. Not only that the character 
 skins and visuals of the environments deserve two thumbs up but the game story line is very interesting 
 to follow.
  
  Gameplay itself serves the right purpose of what it is originally designed for - demons, job system, 
 kickin' demons back through an through... and that the players will do in style!
  
  Good combat system and display easily captures the beauty of the game. Early problems of adapting 
 DirectX10 sure does causes a few unpleasant glitches but it seems more patches are appearing to 
 solve the problems.
  
  Overall it does reflect a good game to buy and play despite some minor bug that needs to be fixed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrxdeadman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  Yea they say it's not Diablo. It's not but a combo of Diablo and Olbivion. Yes it still has some 
 bugs but Dx10 is new and untested ground, there will be bugs in games for a while. Over all I like 
 it. Started playing and couldn't stop is more like it even though it did crash once. I started 
 it up and played some more, at least it started me where I left off; didn't lose anything or my 
 place in a quest. Play it give it a chance, it's a game have fun! The next games will be better 
 and there always patches (YEA YOUR A GAMER YOU KNOW ABOUT PATCHES) :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTMinion
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  This game was marketed with the same line every time from the creators of Diablo , so of course 
 ur going to expect a lot from such a high title as Diablo. The games quest consist of get me this, 
 kill that for me, the cinematics are the worst thing Ive seen in a long time and any story driven 
 game in my mind should have 2 things, narration and good cinematics and this game has failed in 
 both categories. Another thing your going to hear about is this P2P issue, sorry there is free 
 as well, but lets face it u might as well get GW if your going this way. One u don't get ongoing 
 content (yet to be given an example of these so called bonuses) , two the support u get if your not 
 a subscriber is unforgivable. Thirdly every time they come out with a so called fix they make a 
 another HUGE problem no small but game affecting problems this game will rip ur ram a new one doesn't 
 mater how much u have, this has been on going since the alpha/beta and even into the release. finally 
 to put this plainly if your going to get this game play the demo first, if that catches your eye 
 good luck to you, but i warn u the constant crashes and being a messenger boy is not for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jestepher
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Hello,
  
  First and foremost, Hellgate: London is a fast, exciting and over-all great game. I will go over 
 pros and cons, but above all else this game is worth your money and time. It is great entertainment, 
 which is why we are all here.
  
  Pros and Cons:
  
  Cons first, as they are few but still worth mentioning. The first and major con at the time of 
 this review is that the online play is buggy as hell (no pun intended) . Naturally (hopefully?) 
 this will be fixed with patches, and is sadly common in online rpg's at launch, but it is frustrating 
 nonetheless. Freezing, clipping, link-dead and sever lag/delay time are all commonplace. If its 
 an online bug then chances are this game has it. Levels do get repetitive, but this is a hack n 
 slash after all, with random generated terrain, so it's not a game breaker. Also, the story and 
 plot (but not the setting!) are dry. These are, in my opinion, the main cons, especially the ragged 
 online play. With a subscription fee this is unacceptable and must be fixed for subscribers (see 
 my final paragraph)
  
  Pros. The list is long and I won't name all the pros but the ones which stand out for me will be 
 mentioned here. The graphics, animations and sound are all extremely well done. The reviewers that 
 whine and complain about lackluster graphics and such need to get a job or save their money and 
 buy a decent gaming PC. This game is great looking, especially armour and weapons! While the story 
 and plot are a little rough, the setting is fresh, new and uncharted. The fact that you get to 
 play (if you choose) as one of the legendary Knights Templar, hacking and slashing through legions 
 of demons is an amazing selling point in it's own right. Say what you want about HG: L, but you 
 have to admit the setting/ premise of the game is unique. Character customization, gear customization 
 and over all character progression is fun and there is little to no grind compared to other online 
 RPG's. The loot is fun! The pros go on and on, but if you like fast, violent, auto-attack-free 
 RPG combat, this is a choice game.
  
  A note on the controversial subscription fee. Some (cheap) players are up in arms about all the 
 premium services offered for a measly 10$ a month. Not only is this fee 1/3 cheaper than other 
 comparable games (DDO is almost the exact same game model, but launched @ 15$ a month) but it is 
 optional and you get an entire single player game out of the deal. If this were a full-on MMO you'd 
 get NO time game unless you paid the 15$ a month. Premium services are nothing new and are a hit 
 in Asia: everyone can play and if you want more, you can have more for a few $$. It's just that 
 simple. It's cheaper than an MMORPG and you can still play online for free which NO sub-based MMORPG 
 will permit beyond the first month. Naturally HG: L (currently) lacks over half of what a standard 
 MMORPG gives you, hence the reduced price. It all makes sense if youve played MMORPGs before. 
 In closing I would like to say this: If it werent for the online bugs I would give this game a 
 10, yes a 10, in a heartbeat. At launch the online bugs are so severe, however, that it gets an 
 8. Still a great game. Basically if youre a gamer with patience and can soldier-on past the lack 
 of polish, youre in for a GREAT time. It can only get better; the game has been out for less than 
 a week and patches are already coming in. If youre an impatient gamer who tends to react to games 
 like the Angry German Kid on You Tube, youd best wait a bit. All in all a great game with HUGE 
 potential, just needs some online clean-up. Thanks for reading, enjoy HG: L 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juntom
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This game easily has the most beautiful opening cut-scene I have seen in ages. The opening cinematics 
 also do a great job of explaining the story behind the game. The in-game graphics are also top 
 notch, with some of the best atmosphere for an RPG and MMORPG in recent memory. The gameplay is 
 intuitive, the character design deep and the NPC interaction is engaging. That pretty much sums 
 up the best parts of the game.
  
  The bad? Well, the level design is less than inspired, the quests are of the garden variety find 
 or kill types, and there are some serious bugs in the game at the moment. Fortunately, these are 
 all problems that have the distinct possibility of being fixed with patches. Bugs are to be expected 
 with software these days, if only due to the massive variety of pc configurations and the ever-shrinking 
 turnaround time demanded by big name developers from concept to product these days. However, the 
 level design and quest scripts really show where the developers skimped on production. Great graphics 
 are nice, but a great RPG is nothing without story, related quests, and thoughtfully produced levels. 
 Therefore I feel compelled to rate this game a 5, but the graphical design of the game really does 
 lift this game from a 4 to a 6. Hopefully the designers fix the bugs, revamp the level design and 
 quests and lift this from a merely mediocre game to a truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTG2003
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly, it seems to have been released a couple months too soon. There are various bugs and 
 some issues with collision. Also textures are over-used and many areas look way too similar.
  
  However, what this game lacks in textures, it makes up for in the system. This game has amazing 
 revolutionary concepts. Had the guys stuck with Blizzard to get this released, the gaps might have 
 been filled. Overall, amazing. Very addictive, super fast paced, very intricate classes. Having 
 classes covering swords, to magic, to guns, this game really deserves more credit than anyone is 
 giving it. Soon as it releases a few more patches to fix some bugs, this will be incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rein77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  It looks great and plays great. I love the story arc and the many weapons and armor you get. It 
 runs good but has some spots where it slow down, but that is nothing a patch can't fix. I love 
 all the quest I get to do along with the feel of the game. I think it's a must have for your game 
 collection. I love the open movie of the game, it really sets the tone for the game itself and 
 gives you that reason to right the evil. I love the idea that I can have a sword and gun at the 
 sametime or sword and magic use, the game has so much to offer and the ones thinking it's not very 
 good must have some very old computers, mine runs it fine and no memory leaks. Go get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Expected for quite some time, now it's out and it's disappointing. Maybe they should have kept 
 it in development for another year.
  
  Here's what's good with the game:
  - reminds of Diablo 2
  - just what you need to loosen yourself if you're tense
  - graphics 
 are... OK
  - level design is very realistic (on the outside)
  
  And here's what bad:
  - video quality if the intro movie has poor quality, worst than the trailers
  - the sound from 
 the intro movie gets doubled/tripled randomly
  - overall sound volume is too low
  - there is a loading screen to the character creation/selection screen
  - levels are too small
 
  - voice acting is terrible, sometimes it's even played at a higher speed
  - lots of reading involved, characters just say a welcoming text
  - gameplay is way too easy, 
 played until I was about lvl 7 and not one single monster was even remotely close at dropping my 
 life bar below 80%
  - stupid quests like "kill 10 of those monsters"
  - dull and repetitive gameplay - go out, kill a few monsters and come back
  - no multiplayer 
 LAN available
  - the game is expensive and requires a monthly fee to play online (Diablo 2 did NOT have a monthly 
 fee) - just to make it barely mediocre.
  - the game freezes or crashes every few minutes, the longest I got to play in one go without having 
 to reboot the pc was 10 minutes. They mostly occur when in the inventory/skills screen. FEAR, Condemned, 
 Prey, etc - no freeze/crash issues. But Hellgate has plenty of those.
  - the insane EA EULA tops the list, it alone being a good enough reason to avoid this game.
  
 
  Yes, I played only until I was lvl 7. But it took almost 2 dozen freezes/crashes to accomplish 
 that feat.
  
  I would have given it a 5 if not for all those crashes and freezes. But -4 points for that. I care 
 for my hardware.
  
  Waiting for Diablo 3.
  
  PS: In the player reviews pie chart a total of 24.7% voted "Other". Wonder why gamespot removed 
 "Abysmal", "Bad" and "Terrible" from the chart - could it be they all voted that? Too many negative 
 reviews visible in the chart? :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: butanek56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  well, to start the review off I'm kind of stunned at all the bad reviews, it appears not alot of 
 these people have played this game.. and if so they did, they didn't play it for very long. I've 
 seen alot of people claiming the game crashes, is unplayable and far too easy, yet as a Bladesmaster 
 i've died more than 20 times going from lvl 1 to 28. It doesn't become any hard untill level 16 
 when you start fighting mobs that use DoTs against you, and debuffs making you unable to use any 
 abilities.
  
  And as for game crashing and instability, I got stuck maybe 2 or 3 times in all when I was trying 
 to jump through strange places and on cars, and I've *never* crashed before, nor have my friends.
 
  
  For the storyline, it was pretty slow in the beginning but got more intresting later on as you 
 reached your lvl 20s, you got to see some familiar character too in St Paul's station, some certain 
 people from intro, and you actually finally got to see Hell, now this is another misunderstanding 
 from alot of people, as there are these extra instances that are called "A Step Into Hell" but 
 the actual hell is nothing like this extra instance that you occasionally run into, the real Hell 
 in Hellgate is pretty much what you expect it to be, a wasteland. 
  
  It's a real shame that the storyline ends at around level 25 ish , after that you have to play 
 through Nightmare mode which becomes available to you after killing Sydonai. I really was expecting 
 it to go further up to level 50 : (
  
  I'll probably end up giving it a 8.5 for still having potentional, and I hope someday I can write 
 another review and give it a 9.0 whenever they've gotten through fixing some bugs, re making the 
 UI and fixing a better way of partying with people
  
  And well, overall, even I am a tad bit disappointing with the game, but I just wanted to write 
 this review to say it's not ALL that bad as everyone here claims it to be, not at all. And it's 
 REALLY fun playing with your friends wasting the zombies together :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Story: Demons take over London. You are a templar, thus you must own them.
  
  Graphics: Good. Not amazing but works well but, FPS can slow down in mobs and combat.
  
  Audio: 
 Average.
  
  Missions: Mainly quests that require you to A. Kill a boss B. Collect/Activate Certain Items C. 
 Kill Mobs for certain drops D. Main Quest.
  
  Controls: Nothing new to MMO Players.
  
  Features: Lots and lots of Weapons/Drops. Diablo lovers rejoice!
  
  A. I.: They fight and take 
 hit, a lot.
  
  Loading Times: Could be faster....
  
  Multiplayer: Way better than Single Player. SP is basically MP just no friends to play with... kind 
 of lame.
  
  Requirements: High. At least to get a nice, constant FPS.
  
  Weapons: Lots and very customizable.
  
  The Good: Drops, Character Development, Online MP.
 
  
  The Bad: SP is just MP with no friends or other players.
  
  The Ugly: Bosses. Man are they brutal!
  
  Replay Ability: SP = Low MP= High.
  
  The Bottom 
 Line: Buy it for the MP and friends, not for a lonesome journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeltaElite121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I'm just going to share my opinion with you all on this game, and what I feel most of 
 you should really be looking at in terms of the big picture. I rate this game as an 8.5/10 in it's 
 CURRENT state. You can thank EA Games for the reason why this title is not polished because they 
 had their foot in the door like they normally do, and that almost ALWAYS leads to problems (Command 
 and Conquer, anyone? Oh, that's right. EA screwed that series up also.) - Especially in seeing 
 they had nothing to do with the designing of this game, merely distribution of the title.
  
  Hellgate: London has potential to be the next revolutionary Diablo, but notice I did not say 
 it IS because there are some key factors. For one - the community behind it has a large influence. 
 The designers that stick with the game also make a huge impact as well. I am astounded at the lack 
 of faith that some people have in this game when it's been made clear that Flagship Studios is 
 VERY passionate about this title, and they've shown it in more ways than one. I mean, honestly 
 - how many companies do you guys know that take time out of their day to talk to you about their 
 product personally? Because that's exactly what's happened in-game with the live announcements, 
 the x-fire discussions, and many other clear representations of a strong passion for this game. 
 That's dedication, and I don't care how you look at it.
  
  The graphics aren't bad for how much content is in the game, and certainly not for the genre that 
 is notorious for lower graphical eye-candy. The environments are relatively the same although randomly 
 generated. There are some different environments, and I feel they fit the scene well. This isn't 
 candy-land, and if you want green forests and night elves, I suggest you go play a different game 
 because that isn't what they were looking for. Post-Apocalyptic environments are supposed to look 
 bleak, and desolate. Throw in a taste of hell and you've got a nasty combination. The sound isn't 
 horrible by any means, but it's not groundbreaking, either. The playability value is good, but 
 the multiplayer aspect needs some work because they're having some problems with that, and they're 
 trying VERY hard to fix those things. They've been working their hides off since before the release 
 date because they acknowledged this game still had some things to clean up, and that's okay. The 
 story isn't bad either, but sometimes it can be a little difficult to follow. Some quests are tedious 
 and/or vague and need some fine tuning. The chat interface with others needs SERIOUS work because 
 it's not very user friendly, and some of the rest of the HUD options need some work. This game 
 is not perfect, and I am in no way claiming it is - but it's also not complete either, so judging 
 a product when it's not even finished is not fair at all. Look at World of Warcraft. Blizzard is 
 STILL fixing issues that they've had since BEFORE it's release years ago, and suffered from the 
 same problems - but nobody is gnawing at their heels. Now tell me how that makes sense, because 
 it sure doesn't to me - and I'm not attacking this title either, so don't get the wrong idea. It's 
 just an easy one to compare to simply because of the relations of both of these companies, and 
 the success World of Warcraft regardless of it's nasty bugs, glitches, problems, etc.
  
  SUMMARY: This game has serious potential and just needs a little more time and it will be everything 
 people have wanted to see, and a whole lot more. Flagship is working tremedously to improve the 
 game because they really do care about their customers. If you're all really unsure of how things 
 will turn out, all I can say is wait it out then and watch what happens. My money was well spent, 
 and I support these guys simply because they've tried really hard to give something similar, yet 
 completely different and I believe they have done just that. They never claimed this was an MMO, 
 so if you are the kind of person that likes grinding and running 3-hour raids - this game isn't 
 for you because it is very much pick-up-and-play. Every time you play you will accomplish a whole 
 lot, and the variety in loot and chance of something good popping up just drives that sense of 
 curiousity even more. I give this game an 8.5/10 and I stand firmly by this because I have faith 
 that things are only going to get better.
  
  - and for the record, Diablo fans should take note that the title they fell so in-love with wasn't 
 free of problems either. In fact, it had quite a few on release; some of which were UNBELIEVABLE 
 that they'de release a game with the elements that were missing. Many of you are comparing a incomplete 
 game with a complete one, and that's simply not realistic because Diablo II had plenty of issues 
 that apparently everyone has failed to remember. On this notion, I suggest you all at least give 
 this game a shot. This game has so much incredible potential and some of you are just expecting 
 unrealistic goals to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quietguy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  It's been awhile since I've played the 1.9b patch version of Diablo 2: LoD (which was last year 
 by the way) and I've played similar brands that relates to the mechanics used by HG: London. However, 
 I don't even what type of smooth mechanics that this game even use as I can always spot the next 
 bug I see every time I try clipping through each levels or props on the levels.
  
  As we can see, the basic play is pretty much responsive and the controls are on slick with the 
 character, and fighting your usual gimmick of demons and monsters seems pretty easy enough that 
 a 8 year old (literally) can get on a immerse their selves easily into combat. Each class (only 
 3 main but with an alternate) : the blademaster/templar, the engineer/hunter, &amp; the evoker/summoner 
 provide their own variations of combat along with differential skill trees. However, as you progressed 
 later into the game, you find out more that each skills does not compensate each other and act 
 only as requirements to the later, more powerful skills that are not actually powerful in proportion 
 to the first tier of skills. Melee combat is fluid enough so that any close combat characters can 
 get themselves in &amp; out of a mob but there are occasional quirks here &amp; there that makes 
 me question whether the creature designs that you will fight against were actually rushed in the 
 final weeks of the development period or ripped off directly from the demo released a month ago. 
 The FPS mode is made simple enough for any range type class to roll over demons without having 
 to suffer difficulties, but there's the kicker, it IS too simple. Recoil from rifles or pistols 
 are only appearant in a character's accuracy and is indicated through your crosshair but does not 
 affect your viewpoint; which brings me to the range combat aspects of the game. Like wise, fighting 
 other enemies with ranged weaponry or abilities is more like playing duck hunt in a 3D format. 
 Opponents will often stand still and take all potshots you throw at them or run away and repeat 
 the same thing. Dodging simple flying electro bullets and fire blasts makes it for a lame game 
 experience since there is no tactical thinking needed but only reaction time.
  
  Character interaction with in-game NPCs is best described as inconcievably worse that Oblivion's 
 funny dialogs, or nonexistant. All text chat and little, horrendous voice acting does nothing justice 
 for this game.
  
  Going to the bigger picture at hand, the main story does provide the player with a sense of direction 
 but does not deviate into much of anything else. There is barely inaudible immersion into the storyline 
 and the accompanying quests that does nothing but sends you out to kill a specific number of monsters, 
 or collect this &amp; this so you can get to that. There are the occasional slay the bosses quest 
 but again it's very time consuming as each boss emits the same AI boundaries that ordinary demons 
 possess: charging, swiping/shooting, rinse &amp; repeat. This just leads you to running around 
 in circles so the damn HP bar can go to zero.
  
  The sound and scores that are placed into this game is what makes some parts of the game decent 
 enough to travel through repetitive enviroments and abysmic level designs. The nature of the score 
 pieces are a crossbred between orchestrated bass and disturbing techno, keeping the player a little 
 bit interested in the near-absent plot and bland NPC conversations.
  
  Graphic designs and buffering within the game itself is so last generation and provides only minimal 
 dynamicy. Each level of detail, when ramped up in the options menu, only improves the bit-mapping 
 qualities of characters and level enviroments, as any bump to texture improvement does nothing 
 for it at all. Makes me feel I'm role playing Doom 3 in a apocolyptic London.
  
  Finally, the backbone (or supposedly) of Hellgate: London lies in it's operating multiplayer contigency. 
 However, the shift from free-to-play-locally to half MMORPG makes me wanna stick with D2 until 
 the very end. The optional $10 a month subscription for a supposed to be free online gameplay will 
 scare anyone dedicated to the Diablo series as several features will be locked until the monthly 
 fee is paid. A game with great potential to be smacked by sudden changes at the end of its development 
 life cycle will mar this forever more until a couple of major patch releases later.
  
  Even Deus Ex &amp; System Shock 2 would whack the *bleep* out this game old school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darrak
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Just my little review to give players thinking about purchasing Hellgate: London a little bit of 
 information to go on. First off, I have to too you that I played in beta and was extremely pumped 
 about the release of this game. However, I HAVE NOT PLAYED THE RETAIL VERSION. Why, because I talked 
 to a couple friends who were in beta with me and they said nothing changed other than the stability 
 of the game has increased some.
  
  Hellgate: London... it was supposed to be the game that held me over until Age of Conan or Warhammer 
 Online. So since everyone is putting in their two cents, I will add mine and see if we can give 
 people a good overall idea of the game.
  
  TYPE OF GAME:
  
  This game was hyped to be the next coming of Diablo. The Flagship Studios people, who were former 
 employees of Blizzard that worked on the Diablo series, have flaunted their reputations at every 
 turn. This really helped build the hype of the game and truthfully got me extremely excited. I 
 mean really... they made a great game in Diablo! Some of the other people who left Blizzard that 
 worked on Diablo went and made Guild Wars, of course this will be a great game! Again, this was 
 a game that was supposed to make me want to pick it up 3 years from now, just like Diablo 2 did.
 
  
  FIRST AND FOREMOST, THIS IS NOT AN MMORPG by any use of the term! The game is similar in style 
 to Guild Wars as it is has a central hub (train stations) for players, being sort of a meeting 
 place for people to gather before going out into the instances. There are typically 4-15 people 
 in the train stations at any one time. You collect your quests and go kill. There is no real interaction 
 with anyone in train stations. Diablo 2 would have the same set up if the chat rooms you come to 
 prior to starting your game were actually inside of the Diablo game itself. This does not have 
 any MMORPG elements other than people meet and... that is about it, it is not much about roleplaying.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  This game can either played in a DirectX 10 or DirectX 9 mode. I will review both.
  
  DirectX 
 10 version is obviously going to be the best looking of the two versions. The weather FX, elemental 
 FX, and weapons FX, are outstanding in DirectX 10. I went back and forth between DirectX 10 &amp; 
 9 numerous times throughout beta and each and every time I switched back to the DirectX 9 version, 
 I kept thinking how ugly it was compared to the DirectX 10 version. However, with that said, the 
 DirectX 9 version is very stable, with the DirectX 10 version being pretty much unplayable for 
 long periods of time due to crashing. Whether this was fixed after release, I personally do not 
 know, but from reading forums and websites, it was not fixed. The DirectX 10 version had a memory 
 leak on a lot of machines, which caused HG: L to use tons of system resources until it finally crashed 
 the game and/or your computer. I am running a very high end gaming rig, just to have it brought 
 to its knees by HG: L due to graphics problems.
  
  The train stations have some very nice touches to them that help you really get into Hellgates 
 world. They look worn and dirty in places. The character models are above average for a FPS type 
 game. They are sub-par compared to those DX 10 games just releasing are about to be released, such 
 has Bioshock and Crysis. The levels are a problem. The idea of random dungeons is a great idea 
 on paper, but the idea sort of flopped in execution. First off, the random dungeons are not very 
 random. Most of the dungeons have the same overall look and feel each time you go into it. They 
 even have similar routes. Yes, they are different, but the differences are so subtle it is barely 
 noticeable. Because of their random dungeon generator, the levels lack the personal touch that 
 a programer could have given each level. They could have given each level its own look and feel 
 instead of a similar look over and over. The levels feel... well dead.
  
  So technically the graphics are a flop, visually there are slightly above average. The graphics 
 dont compare to Bioshock or Crysis, but still high quality nonetheless.
  
  SOUND:
  
  I personally play with a pair of surround sound head phones when I am playing action games. Just 
 helps put me into the game a little more. The sounds in HG: L or about average for a game. Nothing 
 impressive but nothing really lacking either. Lots of growls and snarls in the right places. Every 
 once in a while you will get to hear something going on in the background that will increase your 
 enjoyment. But for what it is worth, the sound and music merely gets the job done, but does not 
 take anything to the next level of gaming.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Overall gameplay: The game is played from a first person or third person perspective. If you are 
 playing on of the ranged classes you can pick either first or third, both views play great ranged. 
 It is just a preference. I have played characters both ways and did not have any trouble either 
 way. If you pick on of the melee classes you will be stuck in third PoV unless you equip a gun 
 (which I dont suggest) . After, that the game plays much like a FPS. Run kill, run some more and 
 kill. Did, I mention you, run, kill, run kill and then kill some more? Yes, the game play after 
 10 to 20 hours gets extremely repetitive. For the first 8 hours or so you will be like, OMG THIS 
 IS THE BEST GAME EVERY. Shortly thereafter, you will be thinking, should I even bother play this 
 game? AI: The AI in the game, well, there is one, but it is so mindless, it is barely worth mentioning. 
 Most of the demons are just standing there until attacked, and then after they are they do only 
 a couple of things, run at you and melee, stay right were they are and shoot you or do in and out 
 runs. They do the same routine until you are dead or they are. This was fine with a game like Diablo 
 2, but that was years ago. Now we have game AIs that flank you, chase you out of hiding with grenades, 
 wait and ambush you, and run when they are hurt. HG: L goes for quantity of mobs, not quality.
 
  
  Skills &amp; Stats: The game uses a skill tree similar to the ones you find in Diablo, Diablo 2 
 or even World of Warcraft; however, Diablo 2 and World of Warcraft have several different trees 
 windows (3 per character) with each tree window having multiple paths and its own unique focus, 
 i. e. the lightning, fire and cold trees of Diablo 2's sorcerous or the shadow, healing and utility 
 trees of WoWs priest. In HG: L you get one skill window with about 4 overall paths. Each of these 
 paths are supposed to give you what each of the tree windows did in the other games, each path 
 has its own focus. However, all of us non-cookie cutter people tried several different paths during 
 beta and found that only one or two worked per class. This will force even us non-cookie cutter 
 people to go the cookie cutter route. This means 1,000,000 of class clones. Some of the skills 
 are very well thought out, which will make you go wow that is a great skill... others are not 
 even worth picking up for ANY REASON. There are no respecs in the game, so once you try out that 
 useless skill, you are either starting over or living with your decision. Also, dont bother with 
 saving skill points like you did in Diablo 2, Flagship has the skills spaced out to keep you from 
 hording skill points. It is better to upgrade the skills you already have when you can.
  
  As for the stats, yes, you can distribute your own stat points. The problem is that the equipment 
 you get will have stat requirements, similar to those in Diablo 2. However, unlike Diablo 2, you 
 dont have really any extra stat points to do what you wish with them. As a blademaster you will 
 need tons of spirit to uses those nice shiny swords so you will find yourself dumping all of your 
 points into that one stat. This happens with every class. Their equipment forces them to dump most 
 if not all of the stat points into a couple stats just to keep up with the equipment levels, so 
 again, you are left with a cookie cutter design on most character types. My friend and I started 
 two guardians at two different times. When we were finished our stats were very close to each others. 
 So if you play, dont worry about what stat points you put where..... just save them up and the 
 game will let you know where to put them and even when! You will get that new shiny weapon and 
 go damn, I need X stat to use this. Then you will find yourself dumping all those saved stat points.
 
  
  Equipment: I bumped this up above, but I did want to mention that HG: L does a great job with the 
 equipment and their upgrades. You can spend hours just upgrading equipment and shopping! HG: L makes 
 even junk drops worth having. Also each player in an instance gets his/her own drops so there is 
 no fighting over quest items or equipment. It is the best loot system I have seen in a game to 
 date. I cant believe no one thought of it before. Kudos to Flagship for making this system and 
 I hope to see it again in future games.
  
  VALUE:
  
  The games value is that of a FPS, which is about 10 to 20 hours. Some people who really like it 
 will get more out of it, but I dont see the game lasting for years to come. The repetitive game 
 play is the big killer along with the fact that the non-subscribers ONLY GET THREE CHARACTER SLOTS! 
 That is half of the number required to make one of each class. I will touch more on this in the 
 subscription section. If you subscribe the game will probably hold you longer, but replayability 
 always comes down to the player himself. Some will want to play it over and over, some will not.
 
  
  COMMUNITY:
  
  This is a single player game in multiplayer clothing. Outside of my friends online during beta, 
 I never had any reason to speak to ANYONE. The game can easily be soloed early on. (I dont know 
 passed 22) . The other players in the station tunnels with you might as well be NPCs running around 
 shopping. Actually, you will find yourself interacting with the NPCs more than other players.
 
  
  SUBSCRIPTION:
  
  This is the only place in this review that I am going to get on my personal soap box. I hope that 
 so far you found my review unbias and helpful. However, I am going to get personal here. The subscription 
 service is the biggest under-handed piece of crap that the gaming industry has seen to date. If 
 you have been living in a hole, I will explain a little bit of what this subscription is about. 
 The game shipped with a single player and a multiplayer games. You can buy the main game and play 
 online free. However, if you want, you can subscribe and get extra content not found in the original 
 game for $10.00. Most of you go great, extra content; however, I personally feel that most of the 
 content that they are planning on giving you SHOULD HAVE BEEN PART OF THE OUT OF BOX GAME! The 
 way this works is you sign up for the premium package and you get access to all the extras, more 
 character slots, bigger stash, extra areas, new classes, extra equipment. Flagship says that they 
 decided on doing a monthly subscription instead of following Guild Wars and going the expansion 
 pack direction. The problem is if you pay $10.00 a month for 4 months ($40.00 total to you, if 
 like me you went to a public school!) and you cancel your service, YOU LOSE EVERYTHING that you 
 received as part of that subscription. If you made a character in your 4th slot that you are currently 
 working on, it greys out. You cant pick and choose which characters are greyed out, so if you 
 are going passed three characters and stop subscribing, be prepared not to play those characters 
 or be prepared to delete your older ones. This also includes gear, upgrades and your stash! That 
 is right, anything in the extra part of your stash when you stop subscribing, you cannot get to 
 it! It does not get deleted, just greyed out until you pay for your subscription. With the expansion 
 pack method, you still pay the $40.00 but you dont lose anything if you dont want to pay an extra 
 $10.00, $20.00 or $50.00's in the future. You are pretty much renting the rest of the game from 
 Flagship and not buying it. Flagship put just enough of everything in the game to make the game 
 seem complete and to wet your whistle so you will want to subscribe and not be angry. People mentioned 
 that there were actually nine classes that were supposed to be in the game. We got six. Funny that 
 one of their first updates will add a character class to the game. Again, it seems that Flagship 
 held back 1/4 of the game so you could pay them to get the other 1/4! Then they had the nerve to 
 offer a lifetime subscription for $149.00, but only for a limited time. Strangely enough that limited 
 time will expire only weeks after release, so people will not really know if they like the end 
 game (because we were only allowed to play to 22 during beta) prior to dropping $149.00 on a life 
 time subscription. This is nothing more than Flagship asking players to buy the game, and then 
 pay a monthly fee to rent the completed version!
  
  Further, the game has in game ads which one would think would off-set some of the costs; however, 
 Flagship is double dipping as much as they can. (This is NOT a debate on in game ads and how big 
 they are, how many or how they look.)
  
  EULA
  
  I am not going to say much here. If you are interested about the EULA debate, just do a Google 
 search for Hellgate London and EULA and you will find about 100 websites with information. Long 
 story short, EAs EULA has gotten pretty broad in what information their games can take from your 
 computer. Typically this what information they can take is very specific. Hellgates pretty much 
 says any and all information.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  HG: L had potential to be a great game, the next Diablo; however, it failed because it was obviously 
 released to early and unpolished. I am sure we have EA to thank for this. The game has a great 
 core, great theme, good visuals; however, it comes out looking like an early beta of a game where 
 half the skills are not in the game, level design is still being worked on and the code is being 
 optimized. I think what killed this game the most is EA and the fact that Flagship went money whoring 
 on their first release. Their Diablo rep only took them so far and after that we got... Hellgate: London
 
  
  Overall score: 7.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Instead of writing a full review, since many have already done this and address issues in writing. 
 I will give you an extensive list of game pros and cons and some closing notes.
  
  Pros: - Huge potential for future improvement (its only gonna get better from here)
  - Very addictive 
 gameplay that reminds one of the Diablo series
  - Many different weapons with unique looks and abilities
  - Many options for customization of 
 weapon and gear properties
  - Wide variety of unique and cool looking enemies with all sorts of abilites
  - Quick and easy 
 transportation system throughout the gameworld
  - The mini-game is an original and very fun game feature.
  - Graphics are pretty nice at highest 
 settings and good at lower settings
  - Never seen items-experience-quest progress lost after crash or freeze
  - Crafting and modification 
 system is easy and entertaining
  - Ability to remove modifications from gear for use in new gear
  - You can scrap items in your 
 inventory to get crafting materials and space
  - You will gain something from looting even the most basic, low lvl stuff
  - Lower lvl gear can 
 be highly modified and leveled up over time, which can vastly increase the useful lifetime of your 
 favorite lower level gear
  - Great graphics of your personal player character when in inventory and preview modes
  - Ability 
 to customize and personalize your gear color schemes
  - Weapon effects and explosions are top quality
  - Enemies can be dismemebered or blown apart 
 in many different ways
  - Magic, minions, mele, guns and explosives, choices for destruction
  - Mix of RPG and FPS gameplay 
 gives you variety of play and game feel
  - Loads of gear and items dropped by your enemies
  - The variety and quality of loot from bosses and special enemies rarley dissapoints the player
 
  - Lots of enemies with quick and exciting combat
  - Effects on players and enemies such as phasing, igniting, shocking, stunning, look cool and are 
 pretty useful / harmful
  - Zones are randomly generated (based on a preset general appearance) with suprising quality and 
 detail.
  - Randomly generated rare, unique and legendary monsters with random abilites add some battle and 
 loot variety to the zones
  - Money is easy to make if you really need it, but isnt vital to the enjoyment of the game
  
 
  Cons:
  [ Will most likley be fixed / improved pretty soon ]
  
  - Nasty, buggy launch overall - Very inadequate in-game chat system
  - User interface could use 
 some improvement
  - Mostly just random game quirks and technical issues
  - Lots of game lag in Stations (towns)
  - Lag outside of Stations a little high at times but not 
 too bad
  - There really is not a good in game trade system, so its really hard to get that one thing you 
 need right when you need it
  - Adding friends and the friend list, works a little strange
  - In multiplayer, if you stand still for too long or sometimes just at random, the game will transport 
 you back to a set point in that Station / Zone (dont know if this is a feature or a bug)
  
  Cons
  [ Will probably take a while to fix / improve or never will be fixed ]
  
  - Limited 
 variety of gameworld textures and colors
  - Game is advertised and treated by many to be an MMO, but in reality it lacks many of the essential 
 features a fully fledged MMO would have. This is not really a Con for me, but is an issue with 
 many people.
  - Cleared areas tend to respawn a little too quickly and sometimes with twice as many enemies as 
 before, almost seems buggy
  - Needs more of this game's cool music especially during battles
  - Game does
  - There is no 
 way to transport yourself directly to a zone other than between the stations themselves
  - The high randomness of gear properties sometimes creates some really useless / bad combinations
 
  - The games chat and communications system could use a complete overhaul
  - Quest dialouge is text and not spoken, even the main story quests
  - There is no auction house 
 (I think they are planning to add this later)
  - NPC spoken responses get repetitive
  - Zones, even though they are randomly generated, get a little bit repetitive in their appearance 
 after playing for a long while
  - There needs to be a much wider variety of environmental objects and breakables in the randomly 
 generated zones
  
  
  [ What I like best about the game ]
  
  The two things I like most about this game are the highly random nature of so many things in the 
 game and the ability to highly modify your weapons and gear.
  
  [ What I do not like about the game ]
  
  I wish there was more of everything. There are many 
 types of weapons and gear, but I want more. Same with randomly generated zones. I want there to 
 be more choice of which zones you go into, so you can choose your patch. It wouldnt hurt if the 
 game had more variety in the textures, colors and looks of the random zones.
  
  [ Overall Opinion of the game ]
  
  H. G. L. started out really buggy and on shaky ground which 
 has turned many people off. Problems are being fixed fast and the game is being patched in a timely 
 manner. I feel many of the negative things about thtis game will improve quickly as development 
 continues and more positive features will be added at the same time. This game is so addictive 
 and the positives already greatly outway the negatives. The game really sucks you in and is so 
 enjoyable when you get on a roll. Hellgate London is only going to get better and could become 
 a long running classic like Diablo II, if further development goes well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubeajubea
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  I, like many, had such high hopes for this game and this team so it pains me to admit that this 
 game just doesn't deliver the goods. The first thing you notice is the lack of polish in two main 
 areas:
  1. The art direction is all over the place. The one terrific cutscene that was put out long ago 
 (with the fireball cabalist lady) seems really out of place. The environments range from 'not bad' 
 (the surface environments) to 'very bland' (most of the subterranean environments) . Same goes for 
 the enemies and characters: sometimes they fit, sometimes they break the illusion like a crash 
 bug. 2. Bugs. Crash bugs, memory leaks.. wierd behavior Once you start playing, you begin to notice 
 a deeper problem, there is very little motivation to level! The skill progression is too slow and 
 new skills don't add enough new game mechanics. To be fair though, the gear progression is pretty 
 good. Another problem is the overall sense of commercialization of the game experience. The subscription 
 model simultaneously makes you feel like you're being jipped and doesn't give you enough reason 
 to fork over the cash. I'm sure the scales will tip once they've had time to put out more bonus 
 content, but by then most people will have given up and moved on. There is also the pervasive in-game 
 ads that really break the illusion once again.
  
  This really serves to remind us how big of a difference the polish phase of development can make. 
 FFS has made a nice hunk of rock here with some gems in it, but without that trademark Blizzard 
 polish it takes a lot of work to get enjoyment out of the end product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oscar_the_Spaniard
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  I was one of the victims who played 50 bucks for this game. I got convinced by a friend. My god 
 it's the last time I will do without playing the demo first as I always do.
  
  So EA sold us the Diablo Feeling HAHA...
  
  Let's roll...
  
  Gameplay: This is definetely 
 not an MMO. You see only kids running around without saying any word. Every player on their own 
 business, totally isolated. You only see RPG character mumbling stupid things to you on a totally 
 boring storyline, that will keep your attention for maximum an hour, and then goes down to total 
 boredom.
  
  OMG! The chat system, is one of the worst implementations of chat I've ever seen in my player life! 
 You won't read anything unless you click with your mouse on a PLAY button. I mean how can you NOT 
 make the chat screen transparent like any other decent MMO around.
  
  Graphics: Cheap 2 year old graphics. Repetitive tunnels, graveyards that look the same, over and 
 over again. Characters are horrible, a copycat of Unreal Tournament I characters.
  
  Animation: It just plain blows. The characters run like retards/chimps, and it's not fluent at 
 all. Shameful. Even the sprite animations in Diablo look perfect compared to this.
  
  Music: This is the worst part. If you were thinking of having great tunes like MaTT Ulmann (COmposer 
 of Diablo I &amp; II scores) , the answer is NO. It's a cheap eeire wannabe ambient music that repeats 
 over and over again, delivered In a badly compressed format.
  
  Value: $50 bucks? And then $10 monthly? Really... NO thanks. I don't see any potential on the game 
 to make me even think of paying for a subscription.
  
  I say the people from Diablo who made this game were the dead weights of Blizzard who needed to 
 get fired. They deserve professional death , in my humble opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciant
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  There's plenty of reviews here already, and I agree pretty much with most of the negative ones. 
 However, I want to emphasize one thing, as none of the more eloquent reviewers would speak up this 
 bluntly: Playing Hellgate feels like washing dishes. Imagine a huge pile of greasy plates with 
 no end in sight. Imagine a sink that is leaking muddy water on your feet. Imagine soap that is 
 so watered down that you have to pour it by the gallons until the grease gives way. All the personnel 
 around you is mentally deranged on the side of the uncomfortable, has a speech impediment or is 
 overrun by ridiculous tics. From time to time you get new fancier soap, which means it has about 
 two drops of detergent more per gallon, and it always comes on the condition that you'll wash another 
 crapload of dirty plates. Most of the plates are bland looking and broken anyway, so you quickly 
 develop a habit of just dousing it liberally with the soapish fluid and then hosing down until 
 it gets out of sight. The owner prides himself in the fact that all the greasy piles are hand-assembled 
 to look differently and thus overcome all the monotony of this repetitive job, unfortunately he 
 suffers from short term memory loss and knows only a few stacking patterns anyway, so each pile 
 feels just as boring as the next.
  
  In my time I have often wondered how life in Hell really might look like. I certainly did not expect 
 a cheap and dull graveyard shift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neloy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game is actually for those who like hack and slash games like Diablo, Sacred and Nox. Gameplay 
 is interesting and fun to play. Some repitative quests can bore the player but the features that 
 the game offers is excellent. There's lot of things for the player to explore. The replayability 
 is nice as the player can start the campaign with different builds. Storyline is good. Graphics 
 is rather not up to the standard but the gameplay make this thing up. I think the developers need 
 more time to make a final touch of this game. After all they are the makers of Diablo. Screw EA 
 for releasing this game quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbraraujo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  As this game was released I rushed to the nearest store and bought it. I played the game demo and 
 I thought is was a good game. Of course in absolutely no way this game can be compared to Diablo 
 I and II. It is a differente concept, using the same style : many quests, stats and skills development, 
 weapon upgrades, weapon creation and many interesting and fun work for RPG fans.
  
  The enemies are cool and the locations are great.
  
  If you want a game like Diablo II, stay 
 away from Hellgate: London, but if you want FPS action with a great touch of RPG and lots of fun, 
 go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Ok. I'm Diablo fan. What does Diablo and Hellgate have in common? NOTHING. This is something totaly 
 different. Only thing I noticed is that theres a boy Wart, ex Wirt from Diablo and his peg leg. 
 Everything else is... Just not Diablo. I must say I'm sooooo dissapointed in this as I have had 
 great expectations. I thought hey new diablo, rpg, cool . And when I bought the game and played 
 it for 7 days, realised that it was better to donate 50$ to some homeless or hungry people. The 
 game doesnt deserve description cause it can be compared with lamest try of MMO. If this was a 
 free downloadable MMO I wouldn't spend my limit on it. But I realised one thing finaly: NEVER EVER 
 WILL I TRUST THE COMMERCIALS AND GOSSIPS! ... The ones who compared this with Diablo are either 
 some 10yr old children or a developers family. Haha.
  
  Conclusion: Avoid this at all cost. It's better to pay another 3-4 moths in WOW, or just play something 
 else. The team who made Diablo... Heh... No wonder they got sacked from Blizzard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadaj108
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  I admit, I have been waiting for this game for some time now. Thinks looked pretty positive too, 
 but then I got into beta. At first this was not a bad thing but when the realization hit that this 
 game was about to be released in a month there was worry. The game is still buggy and not optimized, 
 it feels like they rushed a fairly playable build out the door just to meet a deadline. This game 
 defiantly feels like it has the mark of EA upon it and shame on which ever party pushed it out 
 early.
  
  Gameplay: The actually Hack N Slash part of the game seems pretty decent, I really dislike how 
 my Blademaster jump slashes every time you try to move forward and attack, but still satisfying. 
 The animations are well done and the movements feel fluid. I did find the FPS part of the Marksmen 
 pretty appealing and fun to use, although the guns could have been giving a bit more bang it felt 
 fun to use them and run and gun. The character design is good but I just didn't feel all to inspired 
 about some of the skills in the skill tree, they just seemed... ok and didn't feel like it had 
 that sort of flare to it that makes them feel like you are pulling off some bad ass attack or spell.
 
  
  Story: The story is decent, if you read the books it really breaths some much needed life into 
 it. I didn't feel too compelled to follow the story in game, I think this has a lot to do with 
 the NPC's to me most of which felt more annoying and just quest givers then actual characters. 
 Also some voiced lines would have helped ALOT.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great, they really did nail this everything does feel like its alive, in 
 that whole smoldering rubble type of way. The character models were done well and the demons have 
 a lot of motion to them. Over all the graphics are well done.
  
  Bottom Line: Hell Gate should have been in beta for a few more months, it has potential but right 
 now it is broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawnzee
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  I keep seeing people giving this game bad ratings - go cry more, guys. In all honesty, the graphics 
 may not be amazing, but that doesn't mean gameplay isn't. I've been waiting for someone to make 
 this game my whole life ^_^, mixing FPS / Action with the Online RPG style of game - it may not 
 be perfect and shiny right now, but hey, neither was WoW. Give it time. The chat box is the only 
 thing about the game I don't like, I can't seem to figure out certain tools; there's no /who interface, 
 that I can see, and it always starts closed when you load up he game. One of the good things about 
 this game is the speech, from quest givers and the like; some it makes me laugh so hard my stomach 
 hurts. I know it can be corny, but it's awesome anyways.
  
  Flagship did a wonderful job, here, and it deserves every high rating it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aow0526
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Great game for me. The game would slow to a crawl when there were lots of particles flying in the 
 air but turning off the antialiasing fixed that. People are making a big deal that the game levels 
 appears repetitive and the graphics appear dated. I understand their points but for me the game 
 is fun and I'll keep playing. I loved Diablo and find the formula for hack and slash with Hellgate 
 just right. Not sure I would buy a subscription. That would take a lot of product extras for me 
 to get at this time. I'll sit back and watch how the online subscriptions develop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GammaRed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Well, I have only played through act 1 so far, and having done that, I haven't seen much of the 
 mid or end game. In fact none, but I will attempt to be as bias as possible
  
  Pros: The game has a deivers selection of items and weapons for all char classes and build types. 
 There are many quests to keep one occupied while playing the main story line for items and experience. 
 The tile sets are varied and only repeat if you have not exited the game since your last visit 
 to a instance.
  
  Cons: Player can get stuck on in game fixtures, the grafix are a bit Spartan (I. E. to clean in some 
 places, to rough in others) The gore level is at best Teen rated. Unable to transfer items from 
 one of your multi player chars to another. Content for subscription at this time isn't worth the 
 10$
  
  There are more of both Pros and Cons, but as of yet, I haven't discovered them. This game has A 
 LOT of potential, something many players have been saying, So I believe we should give Flagship 
 Studios a few patches to fix some of the bugs and give us some of the promised content. Right now, 
 its like Windows XP or Vista, don't be the first one to get it, wait a while, and see how it improves. 
 Havening said that, I do not regret buying early. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matteus
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  The lack of LAN multiplayer draws this game down in the mud.
  It&acute; s soleless and the NPC&acute; s acting like clowns that desperately tryes to deliver jokes 
 that just dont goes home. Other chars just babble and babble.
  When things are getting hot and messy the frame rate crawls in spite of a high end PC.
  The only 
 thing that I like in this game is some of the weapons.
  
  This is one more milk cow in a desperate gaming industry that just can&acute; t understand that 
 serious gamers just don&acute; t get fooled any more.
  
  No! I don&acute; t want to buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  While not revulutoinary or particulary demanding, this game is really fun to play. Character system 
 is really close to diablo 2 but that still pretty ok. Quests, dialogue, interface and generic npc 
 are similar to WOW but then again most rpg's are nowadays.
  
  So you kill monsters, level up and look for items, work fine for me. The game is very clean and 
 straightforward.
  
  Optimation
  I can play this game at 1185x856 (something like that?) and medium setting and still get fair fps 
 and few games last 4 years can do that with my **** Big plus for that. Also the game look very 
 good with everything on full.
  
  This should've been fixed:
  Less lazor/standard sci-fi armours n items and more real stuff like rifles that actually shoot 
 bullets instead of colorful lights that go zooom . Same with armours, why not some police kevlars, 
 metal armour, reinforced jackets etc, stuff that actually is relatable, half of the time i dont 
 even understand what i use, i just look at the numbers.
  Also, when talking to npc's its confusing as they say something generic always (even when they 
 just gave you a new quest) .
  
  If you like diablo-gameplay, this game is great value. If you're looking for something more like 
 oblivion, this game is the opposite.
  Erik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  The problem was what to do with the next diablo game, put aside for a moment that the devs here 
 lost the name and copyright to it this IS diablo 3.
  
  firstly, the old engine had to go, a top down 2d game wouldent cut the mustard in this world of 
 next gne graphics, so its been 3D ed, wich is fine but when you change the entire perspective they 
 have to change the feel of the combat, wich they havent. hack and slash worked when your in diablo 
 cos your perspective leant its self to hoards of monsters and you frantically clicking away, here 
 a third person look and certainly the first person perspective of the marksan class makes the fact 
 that they kept the hack and slash a bad choice. Hell this time you can even just keep your finger 
 on the button, what the hell is the point of having a cross hair. they obviously moddled it on 
 WOW but they billed it too much a an FPS and so you have this faint dissapointment. Another wow 
 moddle is the MMO, in wich you only see people in lobbys, if you want to go on a quest then its 
 time to party up, iv not had much luck with auto partying yet., but im hopefull for the multiplayer. 
 the rpg system is fun and well designed but the game is buggy and a little frustrating at times, 
 the story is boaring but the atmosphere is good. i think hellgate tryed and valiently failed, a 
 very good idia on paper but it failed in he execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zotanas
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  Finding the frame of mind to understand the reviews that are currently in the process of decimating 
 any chance HGL has at critical success - whether they are from industry or readers - doesn't take 
 much effort of the imagination. HG: L fully deserves them. Releasing a glaringly unfinished product 
 is something publishers find perfectly acceptable for the PC gaming audience, and in this regard, 
 HG: L does not disappoint. Whatever the reasons, this game is an unfinished product as it stands 
 right now. Sadly, the reasons do not matter when you glare discouraged at your desktop after the 
 Nth crash in just a couple hours; the results are the same.
  
  Disappearing avatars, memory leaks, server crashes, broken quests, clipping problems, even grammatical 
 errors in the quests texts, there really is no end to the laundry list of issues that plague Hellgate. 
 I have had to repeat certain quests up to three times in a row thanks to game crashes, server disconnects, 
 or from being stuck in terrain. Even when quests work the mechanics are missing, or completely 
 erratic. Quests to bring down a zeppelin-like demon, or an RTS-like mission that should have been 
 highlights and entertaining mini games both dissolved into mind numbing frustration due to bug-ridden 
 game play. Something must also be said for a few of the enemy types (namely the jumping ravager-type) , 
 which are incredibly annoying. The game play can be good, though. There are moments when things 
 do come together and killing a horde of demons is challenging and fun. Enough to admit I have had 
 an overall good time playing the game, but that may be a product of playing with a group of close 
 friends.
  
  The equipment system is well developed, and upgrading weapons and armor from parts and pieces dismantled 
 from other gear is quite addictive. The graphics are decent by today's standards, although the 
 monotonous dungeon tile sets detract from any strengths the engine may provide. Sound design is 
 passable as well, with decent techno-type music coming in at (mostly) the right times while battling 
 enemies.
  
  Despite any highlights I have had with the game, I cannot in any good conscience recommend it to 
 another person, not with the state that it is in now. A pity, since anyone who knows the background 
 behind Flagship and the developer strength the studio can boast will quickly realize they owed 
 themselves and gamers a much stronger product than what HG: L turned out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Very disappointing, thought it would be different, whats the story?, and its like a modified version 
 of diablo, no wonder I heard that the team that created diablo 1 was developing this game, oh and 
 I tried multiplayer and it totaly blows!. Also a lot of meaningless running around with no sense 
 of following a story line of any kind, just killing monsters and doing the lame quests from the 
 NPCs, what ever happen to Jessica from the intro movie?. Boy oh boy they sure did alot of advertising 
 for a very disappointing game. I should've waited for the ratings before I bought it : ( . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeKing9mm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a run of the mill MMO than this is not your game. It plays very different 
 from any MMO I have tried. Combat is awesome in this game much better and more immersive than any 
 point and click mmo. Scenery could have been more detailed along with maybe night and day levels. 
 Character models could use some more detail as well but other than that the game looks great with 
 the graphics turned up.
  
  PROS: Interesting Class system. Combat is awesome, its as thrilling as a shooter. Nice variety 
 of enemies. Boss fights are epic, and bosses themselves can be very intimidating. Easy to jump 
 into. Much less grinding and funner quests than other online rpgs. Exellent skill and attribute 
 system, they kept it original (it is almost identical to Diablo 2) . I have not found myself being 
 limited by not having the subscription service. (at least not yet) . Cons: I could use a change 
 of scenery besides streets and sewers. Character models are so-so. Chat in the game is almost non 
 existent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I played wow for about 2 years and I have several level 70 characters. I am looking for something 
 different so I tried Hellgate London. I had no issues with the game and it runs great on Max setting 
 with DX10. Its a very fun game and is pretty much well designed. I am sure later on with patches 
 and added content this game will be a big hit like WoW is. My only problem is that it is an EA 
 game so it probabally will never be patched or updated, since EA never does anything. I say give 
 the hame a try and you'll end up liking it past level 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrath_of_Dog
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  If Fallout and Diablo II had a love child. And if Fallout was a bad mother and drank during the 
 pregnancy. And if the child then was born with fetal alcohol poisoning, Hellgate: London would 
 be that child. There is quite a lot of potential, but as it is now, the game is... bad. Most notable 
 would be the blocky environment geometry and the hilarious mob animations. One in particular, a 
 dog like creature leaps at you before attacking. This consists of the creature running along, pausing 
 for the briefest moment, then gently sailing through the air in a static superman spread eagle 
 pose along a high parabolic arc before landing, swiveling to face you, and resuming movement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonwilles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  The hype for Hellgate has been spinning since i can't remember when, but I was immensely skeptical 
 once I played the demo. The flaws in this game are immediately obvious; poor art direction, weak 
 environmental textures and an unimpressive physics/animation system. If one were to assess the 
 game from a passing glimpse it would be quite easy to write off as a major flop. However, to spend 
 a few hours with this game quietly reveals well written dialog, albeit trite NPC sound bites, an 
 incredibly deep looting system, and fast paced hack and slash action that requires quick thinking 
 and reasonable strategy. The best analogy is its like hanging out with a reformed murderer. Sure, 
 the murder may have done some pretty awful things, but really he's a pretty nice guy... If you 
 can look past Hallgate: London's major sins, which inevitably many people/critics won't, there 
 is a very impressive gaming experience to be had. The slotted weapons system works very well and 
 the mobs continually find new ways of eviscerating you, so that game play provides natural variation 
 as you experiment with new skills and weapon combos. But again Flagship manages to make the enjoyable 
 aspects of the game discretely hidden until you've already spent maybe four hours getting into 
 it. The DX10 content is a day and night difference beteween the DX9 content. I don't know why that 
 they couldn't incorporate post processing into the DX9 version of the game, but the graphics get 
 a HUGE boost in presentation between the two versions. Even though the graphics aren't on par with 
 UT3 they aaccomplish a very impressive task of creating convincing dynamic environments on the 
 fly. I would be remiss if I didn't point out that the game still has a hellacious memory leak. 
 Both of my rigs have 2GB of RAM and the game checks out like clock work if I play longer than 1.5 
 hours. Fortunately since the release i've seen three patches come out and the game has only been 
 out 4 days, so support seems like it cares a great deal about the game and will continue to fine 
 tune the coarser areas. The other side of the coin is that it feels like they've released a game 
 that is unfinished.
  
  The main reason that I gave this game as high of a mark that id did is for three reasons. 1) Flagship 
 achieved something that i've been waiting for for years, balance between twitch gameplay and RPG 
 stat building. Every time a new RPG hybrid game comes out I hold my breath hoping that they will 
 have an XP based system that complements the action. Unfortunately they err on the side of action 
 and skill rather than stat accumulation, such that you could probably beat the game if you got 
 really good at dodging. Or they err on the side of stat accumulation such that there really isn't 
 any need to dodge or aim, just crunch the number and be done with the battle. Hellgate makes leveling 
 very important but if you thought that just clicking the 'kill' button will be enough you'll be 
 quite mistaken. Which gives Hellgate a unique position in the game world.
  
  2) The looting in the game is incredibly fun. If you ever played any old MMORPG's like Ragnarok, 
 all the game had was good loot, and hellgate has wicked fun looting PLUS more, so if you like interesting 
 looting and weapon load outs hellgate offers a great deal.
  
  3) Staff that cares. Even though the game doesn't have the utmost in terms of polish, it is very 
 clear that this game is someone's baby. And at the tiem of writing it appears that the staff will 
 work their tails off to keep the fan base happy. A lot of people complain that the game has a subscription 
 fee, but I look at it completely opposite, if I am paying my $10 bucks a month then thats a promise 
 from them that they will continue to refine and produce content for their game. A game which they 
 have invested heavily. So in summary Hellgate is an exceptionally ambitious title that sets out 
 to accomplish everything and gets quite a bit done. Its problems are extremely evident from the 
 get go, but what it has to offer outweighs its short comings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesClock
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I've been playing this game since beta. the game looks great, the story is actually good, 
 but i don't qualify this has a MMO. Its an instanced game and your basic hack &amp; slash. I played 
 a blademaster dual wielding swords. The skill system is a little bit disappointing, your just spamming 
 the same skill or not even using any. For example i was basically always using the skill that healed 
 me overtime every time i was killing a monster and time to time that attack that threw my sword 
 around me, but beside that i could just use my normal attacks.
  
  The game is instanced and the community wasn't very surprising. You can pretty much solo the complete 
 game and even some bosses i could 2 man them without a problem with a friend. This is basically 
 like Diablo, except with a p2p multiplayer, which is in my opinion, is not worth it. The game has 
 potential, but I've already seen most of these things on other MMO's. The small minigames are actually 
 the funnest thing in this game and i enjoy doing them beside than playing the actual game. Who 
 know's though, MMO's can obtain a patch that could completly change this game for the best. But 
 for now Hellgate is almost like many other games, where you could get for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calljimmy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this review on the 4th of November.... less than a week since the release. I've been 
 playing Hellgate: London since alpha and have seen the various stages. As stated previously... 
 it has a nice feel, very addictive, and considering its had no fix-it-up patches yet it is a very 
 well polished game. If you have friends that are playing it is totally worth shelling over the 
 fifty bux for it. Also it works very well on a variety of different systems.
  
  The bad bit about the game... is its very repetitive, story is really not emphasized, and if you're 
 going to be playing it alone... don't plan on playing it for more than a couple of weeks. I am 
 ok with this game because i planned on playing with a group of friends from the start... it's been 
 a blast so far... but i also tried to make a character solo very early on and almost died of boredom... 
 the scenery is basically the same through-out the game and the actions are the same... and by the 
 time you are level 30 with your character... you have pretty much all the skills you want.
  
  Why i gave this game a 9.0?
  
  i gave it a 9.0 because i believe that it has some promise, 
 i am not that type of person that will give it a bad rating just because they don't like the first 
 15 minutes... with the promise of content in the future and considering the hype... this game could 
 very well be the next Diablo2 multiplayer. (which is good and bad considering it took about 3 years 
 for d2 MP to get popular) .
  
  BOTTOM LINE: if you are ready to pwn some zombies with your friends and be willing to pay for the 
 subscription GO FOR IT.... if you are planing on playing this alone.... don't take a second look.
 
  
  btw, i am greatly enjoying my self in this game but my views might change. And i hope others will 
 give this a try before making very very bold judgments on a very new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakitoxocolater
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  En esta brillante recta final del 2007 estamos disfrutando de formidables juegos de rol para Pc. 
 Al extraordinario The Witcher y a la notable expansi&oacute; n de Neverwinter Nights 2, hay que 
 sumar en esta ocasi&oacute; n HellGate: London. Un t&iacute; tulo con un planteamiento muy diferente 
 a esos dos ejemplos, que apuesta decididamente por la acci&oacute; n.
  
  El juego de Flagship Studios se cuenta entre los fieles seguidores del g&eacute; nero rol-acci&oacute; n 
 que tan profundamente marc&oacute; Diablo, y entre su estudio desarrollador se cuentan, no por 
 casualidad, buena parte de los ide&oacute; logos y creadores de la m&iacute; tica joya de Blizzard. 
 HellGate London, con sus virtudes y sus defectos, es un correcto heredero del esp&iacute; ritu del 
 cl&aacute; sico de 1996, aunque todo suena a d&eacute; j&agrave; vu en esta revisi&oacute; n en clave 
 futurista, y hay ciertas decisiones en su planteamiento francamente discutibles.
  
  Por los Vivos
  El juego que nos ocupa nos traslada a un inmejorable escenario para un juego 
 de rol. Londres devastado por un ataque demon&iacute; aco se debate entre su desaparici&oacute; n 
 y su desesperada resistencia en forma de guerrillas humanas. Una sociedad secreta conocida como 
 templarios trata de devolver el golpe desde las profundidades de la tierra donde han logrado esconderse, 
 y para ello utilizar&aacute; n magias arcanas y modernas armas. Este es el punto de partida del 
 juego, que lamentablemente no se explota apenas, y pese a que se trata de una prometedora y fascinante 
 premisa no se elabora con ninguna profundidad. Que nadie se lleve a enga&ntilde; o, esto es un juego 
 de acci&oacute; n y el argumento est&aacute; ah&iacute;, pero no est&aacute; excesivamente tratado 
 y los pocos giros que hay son m&aacute; s bien justificaciones algo pobres.
  
  La sensacional escena introductoria que supone el espectacular video que ya disfrutamos hace meses, 
 parece el preludio de un hilo argumental marcado por lo &eacute; pico y lo emocional; pero nada 
 m&aacute; s lejos de la realidad, los di&aacute; logos est&aacute; n mal escritos, carecen de inter&eacute; s, 
 y tienen una medida lamentable de donde se encuentra la fina l&iacute; nea que separa la conversaci&oacute; n 
 detallada del tedio m&aacute; s absoluto. No obstante el t&iacute; tulo, consciente de su fuerte 
 debilidad en este aspecto, incorpora el subrayado de los aspectos vitales de los interminables 
 di&aacute; logos, y adem&aacute; s nos permite omitirlos por completo pulsando s&oacute; lo un bot&oacute; n.
 
  
  El ambiente est&aacute; razonablemente bien conseguido, gracias a la sensaci&oacute; n de realmente 
 estar paseando por una ciudad en ruinas y al ocasional vuelo de naves espaciales por el perpetuamente 
 encapotado cielo londinense.
  
  Hay, asimismo, una intenci&oacute; n leve de acercarse a un sistema de bandos, con un men&uacute; 
 que nos indicar&aacute; nuestra sinton&iacute; a con las diferentes facciones y grupos de personas 
 que encontramos en el juego. De este modo podremos resultarles amables, indiferentes, etc., a las 
 facciones de las profesiones disponibles, o a las gentes que habitan las distintas estaciones de 
 metro seg&uacute; n nuestro comportamiento con ellos. El escaso control sobre la capacidad de toma 
 de decisiones, y lo leve de las repercusiones del caer mejor o peor le restan importancia a este 
 superficial intento.
  
  El Mundo en Llamas
  El universo HellGate: London se divide en dos mundos claramente diferenciados, las estaciones de 
 metro donde reina la tranquilidad, y el exterior de las mismas, donde campan las criaturas infernales 
 y los muertos vivientes. Ambos mundos se interconectan en base a portales que deberemos atravesar 
 para ir de un lado a otro, y para viajar instant&aacute; neamente entre estaciones podremos emplear 
 los Terminales de Viaje.
  
  En las estaciones encontraremos a todos los npj con los que interactuar. Aqu&iacute; podremos comerciar 
 (gastar los Paladios, moneda del juego) , almacenar objetos, charlar con otros hombres, u obtener 
 nuevas misiones y las recompensas por llevarlas a cabo con &eacute; xito. Las paradas de metro tienen 
 un dise&ntilde; o id&eacute; ntico entre ellas pero distinta distribuci&oacute; n, y son el equivalente 
 a las ciudades de cualquier juego de rol medieval.
  
  Los exteriores lamentablemente tambi&eacute; n tienen un gran parecido entre si, y son t&uacute; neles 
 de metro, calles derruidas y ocasionales interiores de construcciones. Este parecido entre unos 
 mapas y otros es uno de los principales puntos negros de HellGate: London pues, pese a que la experiencia 
 es muy adictiva, a medio plazo puede cansarnos debido a lo repetitivo de sus escenarios.
  
  El juego presenta un curioso sistema de generaci&oacute; n aleatoria de los mapas con la intenci&oacute; n 
 de que al jugar diferentes partidas los escenarios sean distintos, y se gane en rejugabilidad. 
 Lo que se obtiene en factor sorpresa con esta redistribuci&oacute; n de los escenarios en cada 
 partida se pierde en valores de dise&ntilde; o y calidad de mapeado.
  
  El armaz&oacute; n est&eacute; tico y estructural de todos los decorados est&aacute; presente siempre, 
 y lo &uacute; nico, que se hace con esta generaci&oacute; n es alterar determinados factores de forma 
 aleatoria, como el cambiar la distribuci&oacute; n de las habitaciones o el permutar el orden de 
 pasillos.
  
  Es una medida del todo insuficiente, pues si bien es de agradecer que se tomen este tipo de decisiones 
 de cara a aumentar el car&aacute; cter rejugable de un t&iacute; tulo, es muy discutible la forma 
 de realizarlo. El juego hubiera ganado muchos m&aacute; s enteros con un abanico de decorados mucho 
 m&aacute; s amplio, y con una recreaci&oacute; n virtual de un mayor n&uacute; mero de edificios representativos 
 de Londres.
  
  Creando un H&eacute; roe
  La campa&ntilde; a de HellGate: London se puede afrontar de dos maneras, s&oacute; lo o acompa&ntilde; ado. 
 En ambos modos deberemos crear un personaje desde cero, pero en el multijugador podremos optar 
 entre los modos Elite y Fan&aacute; tico. La mayor diferencia entre ellos es que en el segundo la 
 muerte es completamente irrevocable, en el primero, no obstante, la dificultad es algo mayor y 
 la curva de dificultad mucho m&aacute; s dura. Los personajes que creemos para ambas ramas de juego 
 deber&aacute; n ser diferentes.
  
  El multijugador sigue la l&iacute; nea de Guild Wars, orient&aacute; ndose &uacute; nicamente al modo 
 cooperativo, y ofreci&eacute; ndonos la posibilidad de interactuar con otras personas solamente 
 en los lugares seguros. El servidor europeo no presenta problema alguno de lag. El modo on-line 
 nos ofrecer&aacute;, adem&aacute; s, la posibilidad de efectuar una suscripci&oacute; n de pago Gold, 
 que nos abrir&aacute; la puerta de nuevos contenidos como escenarios, misiones y armas extra.
 
  
  La campa&ntilde; a individual no presenta posibilidad alguna de escoger el nivel de dificultad, 
 y arranca desde la creaci&oacute; n del h&eacute; roe al que encarnaremos en la aventura. El editor 
 es bastante completo, e incluye la posibilidad de personalizar diferentes aspectos como el sexo, 
 el nombre, la cara, el estilo de pelo, el vello facial accesorios de belleza para las mujeres 
 como piercings o pendientes-, el color de piel, el de color de pelo, la altura y la corpulencia.
 
  
  Por supuesto y como suele ser habitual en la mayor&iacute; a de juegos de rol tambi&eacute; n escogeremos 
 al principio la profesi&oacute; n que queremos que desempe&ntilde; e nuestro personaje. Las opciones 
 finalmente, y tras muchos rumores, son las siguientes: Espadach&iacute; n, Convocador, Evocador, 
 Tirador, Ingeniero y Guardi&aacute; n.
  
  Cada una tiene sus virtudes y sus defectos, pero las seis son igualmente interesantes. Si adoramos 
 el combate cuerpo a cuerpo sin mayores complicaciones ser&aacute; apasionante optar por el espadach&iacute; n, 
 si por el contrario deseamos contar con criaturas a nuestro servicio escogeremos el convocador, 
 o si deseamos combatir con artilugios mec&aacute; nicos altamente avanzados de nuestra propia fabricaci&oacute; n 
 seremos Ingenieros.
  
  La evoluci&oacute; n del protagonista responde tambi&eacute; n a los clich&eacute; s habituales del 
 g&eacute; nero. Con las progresivas subidas de nivel podremos ir repartiendo los puntos de experiencia 
 entre los puntos de atributo (resistencia, fuerza, salud, etc.) , o entre las habilidades; que ya 
 incluir&aacute; n destrezas concretas con las armas o t&eacute; cnicas de magia arcana.
  
  Por supuesto a lo largo de HellGate: London recogeremos muchas armas, artefactos y ropajes. El 
 arsenal del t&iacute; tulo es completo y variado, y todas las armas responden con un dise&ntilde; o 
 avanzado a los m&aacute; s cl&aacute; sicos estereotipos del g&eacute; nero futurista. Lanzadores 
 de rayos, de bolas de energ&iacute; a, de gases, espadas, ametralladoras, fusiles, pistolas, etc. 
 Por su parte las armaduras, y ropas que encontremos podremos equip&aacute; rselas a nuestro personaje, 
 y su imagen en pantalla reflejar&aacute; los objetos que portemos.
  
  La curva de dificultad del programa est&aacute; realmente bien medida y har&aacute; que nuestros 
 primeros pasos sean c&oacute; modos, sencillos y agradables para, progresivamente y casi sin darnos 
 cuenta, irnos enfrentando a criaturas m&aacute; s y m&aacute; s peligrosas y da&ntilde; inas. Las 
 primeras misiones son tan f&aacute; ciles, y en ocasiones absurdas, como eliminar a un n&uacute; mero 
 determinado de criaturas para demostrar nuestra val&iacute; a; devolver una pierna ortop&eacute; dica 
 a un ni&ntilde; o o recolectar fusibles para hacer funcionar un aparato. Seg&uacute; n transcurre 
 la aventura las misiones van ganando progresivamente en inter&eacute; s y en complejidad. Los Combates
 
  HellGate: London se desarrolla en una perspectiva a caballo entre la primera y tercera persona, 
 siempre a nuestra elecci&oacute; n. Desde la vista subjetiva veremos nuestra arma y el resto del 
 interfaz como en cualquier first person shooter, y en la tercera la c&aacute; mara se colocar&aacute; 
 a nuestra espalda, escogiendo la distancia de &eacute; sta con la rueda del rat&oacute; n.
  
  El interfaz es sencillo y claramente deudor de Diablo, y eso es notorio con s&oacute; lo echar un 
 vistazo a la pantalla. La distribuci&oacute; n de los elementos en la imagen es id&eacute; ntica 
 a la del juego de Blizzard. En la parte inferior izquierda, en forma de orbe rojo, veremos el indicador 
 de salud; en la inferior derecha, en forma de orbe azul, veremos el de energ&iacute; a para la magia; 
 entre ambos se dibuja el men&uacute; de opciones de personaje, misiones, etc., y bajo &eacute; ste 
 los accesos num&eacute; ricos para los diferentes hechizos, poderes y armas que queramos equipar.
 
  
  La representaci&oacute; n en pantalla de los enemigos tambi&eacute; n es la cl&aacute; sica, con unos 
 detalles informativos sobre ellos que nos indicar&aacute; n la distancia que nos separa, su nivel, 
 su tipo y raza, y la salud que les resta.
  
  Los combates son sencillos e intuitivos, aunque los que son a distancia est&aacute; n netamente 
 mejor realizados que los de cuerpo a cuerpo, que pecan de ser algo blandos e inconsistentes. La 
 inteligencia artificial de los enemigos evoluciona seg&uacute; n su clase y nivel, aunque nunca 
 llega a ser algo realmente digno de menci&oacute; n.
  
  Cuando acabamos con un rival el funcionamiento de la recogida de objetos es sencillo. O bien podemos 
 adquirirlos con la tecla asignada para coger el lote, o bien podemos pulsar la tecla Alt para 
 ver todos los &iacute; tems en pantalla y adquirirlos empleando el rat&oacute; n.
  
  El desplazamiento por el escenario y en los combates es sencillo y muy fluido ya que casi nada 
 entorpece nuestro movimiento. El personaje escala autom&aacute; ticamente todos los objetos que 
 est&aacute; n en medio de su camino, y pese a que tambi&eacute; n hay un bot&oacute; n de salto s&oacute; lo 
 es necesario para realizar saltos importantes; el proceso para el resto de obst&aacute; culos est&aacute; 
 tremendamente automatizado.
  
  Por otro lado se fomenta el empleo del escenario a nuestro favor, tanto a la hora de cubrirnos 
 de eventuales disparos o ataques con diferentes elementos que lo pueblan, como al empujarnos a 
 usar los abundantes elementos destructibles como botellas de gas o barriles explosivos.
  
  Luces y Sombras Tecnol&oacute; gicas
  Gr&aacute; ficamente HellGate: London es un juego ciertamente 
 correcto, con algunos momentos brillantes y otros tremendamente vulgares.
  Deber&iacute; amos empezar por se&ntilde; alar que su funcionamiento es realmente fluido, goza de 
 una optimizaci&oacute; n excelente y de numerosas opciones personalizables para adaptar el t&iacute; tulo 
 visualmente a nuestras posibilidades.
  
  Esta es la parte positiva, la negativa es que en realidad no hay nada excesivamente cuidado o trabajado 
 como para justificar que el rendimiento no fuera tan suave.
  
  El modelado de los personajes es correcto para un t&iacute; tulo de estas caracter&iacute; sticas, 
 aunque palidece si lo comparamos con el de otros lanzamientos recientes como The Witcher, y otros 
 no tan recientes como Oblivion. Lo estilizado de las figuras y las proporciones piernas-torso recuerdan 
 profundamente al marginado Advent Rising, tanto por su aspecto como por la forma de correr y saltar 
 de los personajes.
  
  Los escenarios, adem&aacute; s de repetitivos, no son excesivamente carism&aacute; ticos y nos dejan 
 la sensaci&oacute; n de que un entorno tan majestuoso como Londres podr&iacute; a haber proporcionado 
 mejores resultados a nivel art&iacute; stico. En lo m&aacute; s t&eacute; cnico la mayor&iacute; a 
 de texturas son de una falta de detalle alarmante, los cristales realizan un efecto espejo tan 
 descuidado como sonrojante y los problemas de clipping son abundantes.
  
  En lo sonoro HellGate: London cumple en lo musical y en las voces. El score est&aacute; marcado 
 por fuertes influencias de m&uacute; sica electr&oacute; nica, pero tambi&eacute; n tiene muchos momentos 
 de suspense. Tan s&oacute; lo las escenas cinem&aacute; ticas han llegado dobladas a nuestro pa&iacute; s, 
 y las escasas voces que oiremos a lo largo del juego est&aacute; n en ingl&eacute; s. Los textos, 
 por su parte, est&aacute; n en perfecto espa&ntilde; ol. Fuente: 3djuegos.
  
  Personalmente pienso que este esra un juego con infinidad de posibilidades que ha perdido por muchos 
 peque&ntilde; os errores, como el poco cuidad de los paisajes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilfate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Its basically Diablo 3, in almost every way possible. the loot system, the way you kill monsters, 
 the skill trees and even the classes. the hunter class is the ranger from Diablo 1, but we replace 
 bows and arrows with high tech guns. the Templar class is a warrior in every way possible, be it 
 the barbarian or paladin. As for the Cabalist its a mix between the Necromancer and Sorc. If you 
 loved Diablo, you'll love this. The only down side is the amount of work put into so far, might 
 want to wait a month or two for them to patch the game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aranos420
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London, as many have mentioned, was one of the most highly anticipated games of 2007. 
 It boasted a blend of FPS and RPG like no other. For the most part, I have to say that the game 
 delivers, but it is not without its issues.
  
  Story: I'd say this is a fairly standard storyline, which, being an action RPG, I don't think many 
 of us should've expected too much more. Demons open portals in London (Maybe they like Blood sausage?) , 
 the legions of Hell or whatever demonic plane come pouring out, then a bunch of people grab laser 
 rifles and flaming swords in an attempt to staunch the flow and take back the city. Ok, so I've 
 seriously dumbed down the story, but that's what it really boils down to. I've got no problems 
 with it, though.
  
  Graphics: The character and monster models are well done, in my opinion. They are detailed, distinct, 
 and character models show weapons and armor that you've equipped. While the face and character 
 editing aren't on par with Oblivion, they still give you some variety so you don't look like Joe 
 Marksman Mk I, and Joe Marksman Mk II. The environment graphics are downright dull. There is a 
 distinct lack of polish to the buildings, corridors, and areas that you'll be traveling through. 
 Sometimes you'll find a little surprise, like in the sewers with the water flowing down an angled 
 pipe, that just look beautiful. Usually though, you'll be unimpressed.
  
  Sound: Monster sounds are appropriately menacing, and weapon sounds are satisfying. However, when 
 your character gets hit, the moaning or screaming or whatever it's supposed to be is tinny and 
 hardly noticeable. It made me wonder if my character was having random stomach pains. Oh well. 
 The music needs to be redone, as it's almost nonexistent and certainly doesn't pump you up for 
 the extended slaughterfests you'll be engaged in. A more thumping techno / metal soundtrack would've 
 had my blood up for destroying the spawn of Hell.
  
  Performance: Ugh. How can I write this section without breaking Gamespot's requirement for clean 
 language in a review? Let me just start with this: I have an AMD Dual Core 3.0 Ghz, 4 gigs of RAM, 
 2 Nvidia 8800 GTX SLI. I think the general consensus would be that, at least at the moment, there's 
 pretty much nothing out there in terms of games that my computer can't handle with ease. So why 
 is it that Hellgate: London lags likes like a heroin addict on valium? It's a valid question, and 
 one that I couldn't wrap my brain around. I finally got onto Gamespot and read the reviews of other 
 players, all with similar issues: it's the game, not my machine. Memory leaks are the issue, and 
 apparently the latest patch (es) don't address this issue. Basically, after playing for an extended 
 period of time, and in the midst of combat with hordes of enemies, the game turns into a slideshow. 
 Overall: The game is still enjoyable, and it's what I expected in terms of gameplay and storyline. 
 The graphics could definitely be better, and the sound has its strengths and weaknesses. The performance 
 issues are a drag, and there's almost nothing as disheartening as seeing a game lag up on a beast 
 of a gaming machine. I recommend this game because it's still enjoyable and fun, as long as you 
 don't have any expectations going into it. I just hope that Flagship gets off their behinds and 
 fixes the current performance issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cozm1kaos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  such a well plotted beautiful, sexy, amazing game they have brought us a new genre towards rpg CANT 
 YOU guys see it! of course not thats because all our minds are used to classicle rpg games that 
 require us to see trees swords casting but not this. I mean come on what more can u ask for? there 
 will be tons of updates and add ons that will complete the game .Now instead of playing the demo 
 and judging the game GO BUY THE DAMM GAME THEN JUDGE IT. You guys have to look at this game in 
 a different perspective how many rpg games u know that require you to aim and shoot? with all this 
 action lvling has been easy fun and fast!! GET IT GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerzombieman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game is really fun, addictive and just plain sick. It has WOWING moments, like fighting 
 bosses or mass mobs and the intense music kicks in. it's just sweet, but their is some serious 
 glitches/technical issues that need to be fixed and hopefully they will.
  
  
  
  The graphics are really good if you have a good computer, but if you have a kind of bad computer, 
 they kinda suck but u can still play it fine which is good.
  
  The gameplay is really fun, but definately can get old and repitive, it leaves you wanting more 
 sometimes tho which is good and keeps you playing
  
  the sound is also decent, i think the music is really perfect and is awesome and makes you want 
 to kick more ass.
  
  I'd probably give this game a 9.0 if it had no glitches.. but because of them ima give it about 
 a 8.0. This game isn't really for everyone, but if you like hack n slash, you'll like hellgate london 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sphinxa
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I like the game, it does remind me of a modern Diablo, but after fifteen hours of gameplay, I can't 
 be more frustrated by the frame rate lags, crashes and my character getting stuck. which means having 
 to start over... OUCH! I'm playing on a new pc with an 8800 videocard and an intel 6600 processor 
 with all patches installed. When contacting Hellgate they say the solution to the character stuck 
 issue is to log out, whatever happened to the pride fthis team had when they were at Blizzard? 
 Blizzard makes great games that don't crash and that's the main quality missing here, with minsters 
 dying and getting stuck iin mid-air, respawns when you teleport out etc. Come on guys htis is still 
 a work in progress, lets finish it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DecepticonLogan
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Coming out of the late 2007 age you figure you would see alot better graphics, but no hellgate 
 london takes you on a dull trip where it feels like it is a rehashed diablo. The skills , stats 
 and leveling system is exactly the same. Yes I understand the people that made diablo 2 made hellgate 
 but it doesnt need to feel like its the same game. Just a hardcore disappointment. The story doesnt 
 even feel inspired by anything. The only quality the game has is the beginning intro video is entertaining. 
 It could be that I have outgrown diablo type games , but I really think they could of done more 
 with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmospherecf
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  So many bugs and glitches to this game. It took me close to 30mins to install it and then I had 
 to reinstall it again because another error code showed up. A good 1 hour for just install it. 
 Getting online was tuff. The server kept denying for some reason but then I was finally able to 
 log in. Once logged in the graphics were so poor. I'm running Nvida 8800. The music is horrible. 
 It's something you wouldn't want to hear over and over again. The game lacks deph and substance.
 
  
  By far this is the most over hyped game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnhao
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have to say that I have beaten Hellgate just now, which is why I am writing is 
 review as I speak (redundant perhaps?)
  
  Anyways, I will NOT spoil the game for those wishing to enjoy the game themselves, but rather, 
 I will be addressing some of the general gameplay issues and the pros and cons of the game, thus 
 to give you a general feeling as to whether it is viable to shell out 50 hard earned dollars.
 
  
  ---------------------------------------
  
  I must first emphasize on the fact that Hellgate London is more of a RPG than a FPS. The game, 
 if nothing else, should be counted as ORIGINAL for its combination of RPG and RTS into a immersive 
 and at times fun gameplay style (Yeah, I know, many of you might claim that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow 
 of Chernobyl is the first to combine Role-Playing with FPS, but you must also realize that Stalker 
 relinquished the most important parts of Role-Playing games, the LEVEL UP and SKILL systems. Yes 
 you can have an inventory, and yes it plays like a role playing game, but Hellgate is really the 
 first to experimentally implement fantasy RPG with FPS, and they should certainly be commended 
 for their... Originality if nothing else) .
  
  I will first address the pros of the game:
  
  The game, contraratry to many's beliefs, COULD be fun! The leveling up system is quite interesting, 
 all of the six classes are vastly DISTINCT and variable, adding to the replayability of the game 
 altogether.
  
  The game's camera modes are also quite polished and sophisticated; indeed, you can enjoy the game 
 in the typical Dungeon Siege typed Up-Above camera mode, the Guild War/WOW style Behind-the-Character 
 typed camera, as well as the Oblivion/FPS styled First-Person view. All three types of camera modes 
 work quite well with the game, with no major problems through my entire gameplay experience.
  
  Now, for the system requirement... Well... All I can say is that as long as you bought your PC 
 within the recent 3 years, you WILL be able to run the game no problem. The system requirements, 
 quite to my astonishment, are VERY low. On my old machine I tested it on, with P4 3.0, 2Gb 800mhz 
 and Nvidia 7600GT, I was able to get well above 40FPS with ALL the options (including AA) set to 
 MAXIMUM, and I really start to wonder if the developer had used an Integrated Graphics card to 
 test Hellgate..... (No comments on that...)
  
  Lastly, the world is HUGE. When I say huge, it means Monstrous and Gigantically Significant. I 
 consider myself a veteran of RPGs, and yet, the scale of the game is just beyond my imagination. 
 Indeed, many of the dungeons look similar to each other, but ALL of the dungeons, when you have 
 seemingly beaten every single adversary, will respawn to life with a DIFFERENT outlook, and DIFFERENT 
 enemies for you to again go back and improve upon your skills. (During my testing, I set aside 
 one dungeon (RR approach if you wish) , beat the enemy, went back, beat the new enemies again, and 
 so on. Every time I reentered the same place, it looks diffenent from the last, and with completely 
 new sets of enemies and goods to exploit... Needless to say, upon my 10th time completing the same 
 (but different) dungeon (s) , I, to much of my dismay, GAVE UP.... Hellgate has beaten me with its 
 variable dungeons, and same goes to YOU, don't expect to be able to explore every single possible 
 corner of the game, for it will take months, if not years, to do so (maybe that's why it's designed 
 mostly for online playing....) )
  
  Now for the Cons.......
  
  Yes, there are lights in the game, but there are also flaws that will invariably inhibit your full 
 enjoyment of the game in general.
  
  The system requirements are surprisingly low, but not without a drawback; the developer sacrificed 
 graphics for playability, so most (as in 99%) of the environemnts are indistructible (gasp!) , and 
 the game completely looks hedious if not on Ultra High... (Quality versus Quantity, anyone?)
  
  The game also has performance problems. No, it's nothing with the game having a super-high 
 system requirement, it's just that.... well.... the game has MEMORY LEAKS, meaning the game is all 
 fine and nice when you first start to play it, but after... say 3 hours (a typical playtime for 
 RPG fans) , you will notice the game mysteriously taking more and more of your precious memory, 
 thus running slower and slower as you go, and finally to the point of SLIDESHOW (according to my 
 test, when the game first starts, it generally takes about 300mb; not so much you say? Well, about 
 3 hours afterwards, the memory uptake for hellgate_sp_x10_x64. exe is around 1.7GB!!! So, those 
 with 512.... or even 1gb of ram, you are out of luck, cause you will experience slowdown very early 
 into the game) ... Although restarting your computer will solve the problem, but this still makes 
 the game somewhat unpolished... hopefully a patch will fix this... soon...
  
  Aside from that, there are also flaws in the skill system. The developer tried to make Hellgame 
 a blend between FPS and RPG, much is somewhat unsuccessful in the process. Most of the skills seem 
 to be redundant if not useless, and what you end up with is yet another run down the mill shotter, 
 where you simply go and shoot everyone one sight (pretty boring you say? You betcha!!!)
  
  Then, as it seems to me, this game is designed so that it is almost impossible to beat it in SOLO, 
 you will most certainly want to go online (or use a trainer) , form a group and then adventure. 
 I played solo as a Marksman, and I can't even remember how many times I was BRUTALLY murdered by 
 HORDS after HORDS of demons/zombies/monsters alike (that's in EASY mode) , and finally gave up and 
 went online to team up with the others. My advice: Don't go to LONDON solo!!! You WILL DIE many 
 DEATHS!!!
  
  Lastly, though the game has TONS of replayability by shelling out 6 DISTINCT clsses to choose from, 
 that is also the part which at times irk me out. Indeed, it is all fun and nice before your Marksman 
 has to sell a really nice-looking outfit because it is designed for the Evoker class, or your Guardian 
 dismayed when he discovers a powerful shotgun only to realize it is desinated to the Engineer class... It 
 is okey to have variable classes and skills, but making 2/3 of the items found in the game UNUSABLE 
 to your character???!!! Comon EA! give us a break... you should have at least allowed for dual-class 
 or something.....
  
  ----------------------------
  
  In the end, if you are a fan of RPG, you should still try this game out, for its combination of 
 RPG and FPS, though sometimes unsuccessful, can still be fan. However, if you are a hardcore FPS 
 aficionado and would like your FPS to be as realistic as possible... take my advice, wait for Crysis, 
 it's only about 10 days before it hits the shelves, for you WILL be disappointed by Hellgate's 
 almost fantastical implementation of FPS (i. e. no reload, no recharge, pitifully short range, etc.) .
 
  
  Hellgate: A Great Concept, and a Not-so-Great Implementation... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwoLines
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  I was really pesimistic when I aproached the game. I mean another game about deamons from hell 
 ? This is a rip off ! But no. It's not a doom clone. It's a diablo clone... in 3d. And a good one 
 I must admit !
  
  First things first. The graphics are badly done. Glichy (the shadows sometimes don't cooperate 
 with randomized blocks of terrain) sloooow (My computer isn't fast but it certainly is not slow, 
 sometimes you will have a weird slowdown- even though nothing is happening) and not really artisticly 
 clean and crisp.
  But the monsters look good. Not great- but good. Also I like the dynamic lightning, and shaders. 
 But if you wan't to see some new nice graphics- you WILL get dissapointed.
  
  Except the technical issues- I was troubled by the randomized parts of map. Often you will be seeing 
 the same ol' block again.... and again... and again.. and.. so on. Even in one level. Makes you 
 feel that after 20 levels you didn't acomplish annything. Same goes for monsters. You will meet 
 zombies (3 or 4 models) even 5 hours into game.
  
  But the graphics are not all that bothers me. The sound is... well there is no sound. Some character 
 voices that repeat themselves, and no (or a small amount) of music. But the guns sound right. When 
 you use a sniper rifle- you hear that it's a brain blastin' limb crunchin' gut disembowlin' machine. 
 Same goes for napalm and machine gun (which is a little less cool) . Also the monster sounds are 
 allright. Zombie moans and monster growls are all there.
  
  So what's the best part of this game ? The gameplay. Yes it is a hack-and-slash (ofcourse it depends 
 who are you playing) but it's well done. After falling down into a ditch filled with deamons, and 
 killing whole bunch of em' and looking at a big pile of corpses, you wish there was a button that 
 makes your character roar. Yes, it's a real pleasure. But it's a tad too easy. The equipment, level 
 ups and item enchanting are all diablo like. Nothing new there. Except that you can add massive 
 amounts of damage to your weapons (for money, by adding upgrades or by leveling them up with parts) . 
 There are also abilities which you use all the time. It's made like World of Warcraft- you just 
 tap a button (from 1-9 if I am not mistaken) and viola- you hide, buff, or just kill a monster. 
 You can play in two ways- FPP (First person perspective) or TPP (Third person Perspective) - whichever 
 is better for you. Although shooting monsters is so much better in first person.
  
  So- is it worth buying and playing ? Yes- but only If you really liked (or even loved ?) Diablo. 
 If you did- you will feel like home here. Beckause it's just another clone. In 3d, very well made, 
 but notherthenless a clone of a gameplay that has been implemented in hudreds of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinfernal
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game about 20 hours so far and I haven't had a single moment of gratification. 
 I feel since I paid $50 for this game that I should make a concentrated effort to force myself 
 through the dull lifeless environments, predictable challengeless encounters, and pointless loot. 
 This game is boring through and through.
  
  I was let down from the very beginning when the opening movie upon installing it, was a book turning 
 pages, with low res textures on each page and text on the bottom of the screen with generic font 
 for me to read. Can someone explain to me why the E3 trailer for the game told the exact same background 
 story for the game (word for word) , except it was by a voice actor with actual visuals from the 
 game? So why not just put that into the game, why have some dull text and dull visuals? It's just 
 senseless to me.
  
  Going through character creation you realize again, just how dull the game is. We have had morphic 
 body and face options in games for years now, but in Hellgate you choose from a bland 6 faces, 
 12 hair styles, hair color, skin color, pick your class, and wallah you have your character.
  
  You will then find yourself dropped in the streets of London. You will soon realize that the 
 streets of London are completely lifeless. The environments are dead, there's no people running 
 around on fire screaming, no kids crying for their momies, no stray dogs, etc. Either everyone 
 has been dead for a while, as I assume since there are no bodies lying around, or everything is 
 lifeless from a design overlook. The environments are kinda destructible. Meaning you can't do 
 anything to the majority of it, but UPS was kind enough to crash about 1,000 trucks in each zone 
 because there's random boxes everywhere. And tanks of exploding gas too. Because those are two 
 things I see everywhere in my day to day life that I would expect to survive the apocalypse... 
 The layout of the levels are just as thoughtless and dull, buildings are actually just textured 
 walls. With all the historic sites in Londo you would think we could have been smashing through 
 the buildings ducking behind the crown jewels and laying waste. Nope, you will be running around 
 on the streets in the predefined path the developers laid out for you unitl you hit some blockade 
 you cannot go beyond. I get lost in levels just because of the fact that each and every room, wall, 
 floor, etc. is so indistinguishable from itself I really can't tell if I have been in a given direction 
 or not.
  
  So the meat of the game should be the gameplay right? Let me be brief, enemies attack you in one 
 of two ways, their either shoot stuff at you or blindly charge you. So your plan of attack if you 
 want to be successful is as follows, if they shoot stuff at you, move to the side every now and 
 then to dodge and shoot stuff at them. If they charge at you, walk backwards in circles and shoot 
 them. Congrats, you can beat the game with those two strategies.
  
  The skill trees are anemic in choices, randomly assign your first point, and totally unbalanced 
 between skills. Stats are just as bad, chances are you will never pump points into anything but 
 1 or 2 stats for a given class. Weapons and items are randomized pieces of junk. And stuff sold 
 by vendors is just illogical, look at the items they sell closely and note that sometimes you'll 
 even see the same exact weapon listed twice at different prices. You even have unlimited ammo, 
 so never think of letting go of the fire button.
  
  It's a shame that the enemies are so dumb and skill and gear choices so mundane, because the game 
 controls very well and could have been interesting.
  
  Quests are thoughtless, kill 12 of these, kill a bunch of these and collect 12 of these body parts, 
 kill this one big guy that does nothing different from the other guys but takes more shot.
  
  This game is just a lifeless shell of a time waste. It feels like an Alpha MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanKingNYC
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Like most Diablo fans, I had high hopes for Hellgate London. I followed the the press on it and 
 waited patiently for the release. The Diablo games have been installed in my Computers since 1996. 
 On occasion I feel nostalgic and run through them in a few days. I downloaded the Demo two weeks 
 ago and was a bit exited like most avid fans. The graphics weren't cutting edge and the story seemed 
 weak, but since i enjoy killing stuff, i could deal with it. I finally got my pre-order on 11/2 
 and installed it on my cutting edge Vista machine. I immediately noticed how crappy in ran in Diretx10 
 mode. The game play was choppy and and i got a few crashes to the desktop for no reason. I play 
 Bioshock, Doom3, F. E. A. R, WOW, HL2, and most new games at maximum settings without issue. I knew 
 that my computer wasn't the problem. After 3 days of crashes and watching my character disappear 
 and just seeing a floating weapon or floating npcs, it is my belief that this game should not have 
 been released. The decision to jump the MMO bandwagon at the last minute probably contributed to 
 the games terrible performance. The MMO portion of this game is an absolute disaster and Flagship 
 and EA should be ashamed. I could go on and on but many of you have written similar reviews so 
 I will end by saying that sadly, I will remove Hellgate from my computer and go back to playing 
 NWN 2, I will also install Tabula Rasa and see how that works out. Bill Roper, I hope you read 
 this! HELLGATE LONDON, I KNOW AND LOVE DIABLO, YOU'RE NO DIABLO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  i was just at a friends house and we played this probably for about 8 hours. it was an ok experience 
 and it nails a good interface with fun weapons and a good story. now, the thing that it lacks is 
 replayablity and varied missions. most missions will just have you kill a certain amount of monsters, 
 and then come back. you just repeat the process: get quest, find stuff, kill stuff, go back and 
 get xp for quest. its very repetitive, and is strikingly similar to Diablo II. in short, it is 
 like a 3d third person version of Diablo II. if you like that, then have fun, but id rather just 
 play Diablo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackknight8503
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I've been interested in this game for some time now, but when I started seeing all these mediocre 
 to crappy reviews I got a lil worried. Turns out the people reviewing either had set their expectations 
 ridiculously high or were just being jackasses. There is nothing wrong with this game. First off, 
 the multiplayer is styled the same way as Titan Quest or Guild Wars. You don't have to pay. You 
 can get extra benefits and goodies if you do but its not a requirement. Also I've seen complaints 
 about the graphics. There are nothing wrong with the graphics for Hellgate. While the graphics 
 are not cutting edge or the most visually stimulating, they are still pleasing and definitely lend 
 a postapocalyptic feel to the game. I also remember seeing people whine about the first person 
 view. I've only noticed the first person view while playing Hunter and it adds a nice touch to 
 the realism and doesn't make it hard to see at all. Not all classes are subjected to the FPS mode 
 though. Guardian, blade master, and evoker all have 3rd person views. The learning curve is fairly 
 quick and within 5-10 minutes you will already master most of the concepts in Hellgate. So far 
 the biggest complaint I have is the lack of challenge in the game. While blowing away demons is 
 a lot of fun, the difficulty definitely isnt there as of yet, but it could just be that the Hunter 
 class is incredibly overpowered. If your a fan of Titan Quest, Diablo, or Doom I highly recommend 
 this game. I thought it was worth the 50 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fertanimus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Hellgate: London is the first game created by Flagship Studios, a new company started by the creators 
 of Diablo and Diablo II. Being a big Diablo and Diablo II fan I was eagerly awaiting the arrival 
 of Hellgate and expected to see Diablo 3, in full 3D.
  
  Unfortunately, Hellgate: London shares little similarities with it's Hack n Slash predecessors. 
 The Gameplay is simple, run around and shoot enemies collecting items and money while gaining experience 
 and levels to unlock new skills.
  
  On paper, it sounds just like Diablo II. The disappointment comes when you look at the skill trees. 
 Skills in Hellgate: London are boring, unbalanced and lack imagination. Many of the skills are 
 useless while others are far too powerful.
  
  The items in Hellgate: London also lack imagination. You will find yourself choosing a white (normal) 
 item over a unique or legendary item simply because it's base stats are better. In Diablo II unique 
 items were always, well... unique!!
  
  Hellgate: London does little to seperate itself from previous games. While the game at it's core 
 is decent, the level creation, quests, items, skills and characters seem like they were quickly 
 brought together with very little creativity.
  
  I would not recommend this game for people who are looking for a game similar to Diablo or Diablo 
 II. If you are interested in a game that is both MMO and first person shooter, you may like this 
 game but I really suggest you rent it first because it was a real dissapointment for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  ----GRAPHICS (Score 7.0)
  The graphics are Average good (even if the game supports DX10) .... Most Textures are bland and 
 some are even seem like low res for today standards Also most levels use the same textures all 
 the time which makes the game repeative...
  In general this looks like a game that was made back in 2002-2003 and not a modern title
  
 
  ---SOUND ( Score 7.5)
  Pretty good music and sounds are above average but NPC voices are crap
  
  ----GAMEPLAY (Score 
 8.0)
  The battles are similar to Diablo 2 and that is a good thing if you like Hack and Slash with big 
 combats with multiple enemies...
  But it still feels swallow...
  
  Also the Enemy AI is nothing great to write about
  
  ----REPLAY VALUE AND MULTIPLAYER (Score 
 7.5)
  It has a good Replay value fortunately
  
  even after you finish the game you can replay the game with a different class and try to battle 
 in a different way BUT
  Multiplayer is WEAK and seems to have some nasty bugs The multiplayer makes me feel it was a rushed 
 product
  
  OVERALL (Score 7.0)
  The game is a disappointment for me
  
  Of course i do not mean that this is a Bad game but It was so much hyped from the internet channels 
 that these was a Diablo killer.... Instead of a Diablo killer i found a average game title with 
 bugs and old graphics with a so-so gameplay with boring quests
  
  Its OK as a game but nothing great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orca11
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  After installing and patching this games, I got an error saying the game would not start because 
 it couldn't access a security device. I go to the web site, but can't look at the support section 
 until after registering. Fine. After registering and searching for required security device, I 
 see several inane suggestions including creating a new administrator account and re-installing 
 the game. The only realistic solution is nestled right in the middle, download and install the 
 latest version of SafeDisk. For those that don't know, SafeDisk is a copy protection application 
 that will run in the background interfering with your performance and causing plenty of problems 
 with your machine even when you don't think it's running. My machine has NO emulation, monitoring, 
 or any other software running that could conflict (I even turn off my AV and run only WinPatrol 
 when playing games) . Flagship has put out a game that will not run on a clean system unless the 
 user installs what amounts to malware.
  
  I'm taking this broken piece of junk back.
  
  I'd also suggest you read up on the $10 / month subscription fee Flagship is charging for full 
 access to the content you just paied $60 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z4kn4f31n
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  I believe my headline pretty much summarizes the problem.
  
  Before i start with the review let me introduce myself. I've been following this game for a long 
 time. I managed to get in the closed beta for about 3 weeks and have completed the first three 
 acts through many characters.
  
  To anyone that believes i'm bashing the game, i want you to check out my forum posts on the HG: L 
 forums and you'll notice i've been doing nothing bu the opposite all this time. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  GOD DAMN EA: This game was rush released. Everything proves that. There's no way in the world a 
 company like Flagship would release a buggy unstable and unfinished game if they weren't forced 
 to do so. EA set a deadline for the game. Unfortunately, it only led to the team doing the best 
 they could in the little space of time that was left, which, still wasn't enough.
  
  FLAGSHIP STUDIOS: Through the beta, in only three weeks, the whole gameplay changed a lot towards 
 the direction we all wanted. Their devotion and hard work can't go unnoticed. I have never seen 
 a team redesign their whole game through the beta in many terms.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  GRAPHICS:8
  The graphics are not last gen. They are quite nice for what they are supposed to be, though. The 
 setting could use a bit more diversity (which will be fixed by future additions according to official 
 word) and there could be a bit more gore. Like a bit of blood splattered on floors/walls.
  
  SOUND:9
  The Hellgate: London musical theme is very nice. And the music and sound effects 
 throughout the game are spectacular. The voice-overs of NPCs are quite a problem, though. Before 
 Patch 0 the voice-overs were too funny and out of place. After Patch 0 the voice-overs are lifeless 
 and uninspired. Hope there will be another patch for those. No official word.
  
  GAMEPLAY:9
  This is where the game shines. The gameplay engine is simply magnificent. Randomized 
 levels in 3d are lovely, and places that appear randomly give some spice to the game. The battles 
 can be very intense with hordes of enemies on the screen at once. The gameplay is quite action-oriented 
 rather than point-click spell style which has been adopted by many recent MMOs and games.
  
  REPLAYABILITY:10
  That's what the whole game is all about isn't it? Especially in multiplayer 
 with all the neat additions coming up, the game is supposed to never end. Even if you finish it 
 at some point, though, it feels just great and quite a different experience to start over with 
 another character maybe also on another difficulty mode. Currently there are the following modes: 
 Normal, Elite -and for subscribers only - Hardcore, Hardcore Elite. With all of those playable 
 in two different difficulty settings (Normal and Nightmare) each, you can expect loads and loads 
 of game hours till you've actually done it all. (Quite impossible)
  
  MULTIPLAYER:5
  The multiplayer makes me feel it was the product of rushed thoughts. There should be some way to 
 switch between station instances. Like in guild wars for example: International-1,2,3 etc. The 
 trading doesn't exist for now. Stacks can't get split, it's all chat based and generally it's not 
 working. The LFG-using-chat mode is broken. The chat itself is the worst chat system that could 
 be implemented. You just join random channels as soon as you get in the game and that's it. Not 
 even that old GRC-1, USA-6 etc. Its just a chat-1, chat-2, chat-3, LFG-60, Trade-28 etc. The weak 
 auto-party ends up with you finding a party once in 3-4 hours. Once you manage to get in a party 
 the game gets really fun but you won't see that often. Bigger monsters, more monsters, better loot 
 etc. Concluding, this section of the game needs a complete overhaul.
  
  OVERALL:8
  This game has loads and loads of potential. It could - and most possibly will - become one of the 
 top games in the genre. The bugs are quite annoying though. Crashes, Player getting stuck at places, 
 Lag at some points, combined with the unusable chat system don't allow me to give a higher score 
 for now...
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  CONCLUSION: In its current state, i like this game. I don't know for how long i will be able to 
 cope with all its problems, though. Provided the game manages to survive in the market, considering 
 the devotion of the team, this game is going to shine in about 3-6 months from now. 3 months before 
 it was a very different game and in 3 months from now it's also gonna be a lot different. The game 
 is still in development. When, and if, its finished and polished, it's gonna deserve that 9.5-10 
 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl4hster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  At this point in time (retail release) , the game is extremely buggy, and for me pretty much unplayable 
 for more than an hour at a time. I'll sum it up here in the beginning: wait another atleast 3-4 
 months before purchasing the game. The developers promised continuing development with subscription 
 revenue, so wait and see how it turns out.
  
  Tthe game is unfinished. its unpolished, its bugged completely. From the party sysem, to the quests 
 and npcs, there is just too many bugs to list. This is besides the memory leaks and game crashes/freezes 
 that plague the game. Personally, I can not play more than an hour without crashing and my rig 
 is top of the line. I would say that their public beta test was actually an aplha, and the retail 
 release is beta.
  
  The art is great, the weapons look great, the armor looks great and unique. WHen you kill a boss, 
 a large pile of multi colored loot falls to the ground just like in other diablo/titans quest like 
 games. Lots of loot to be found in this game. Youll also find a lot of loot on regular mobs and 
 in breakables/chests scattered across the levels. You have the ability to break down weapons you 
 dont want or need into companants; that you can use with looted recipes to create other weapons/armor. 
 Theres a forge where you can upgrade weapons. Theres mod slots and looted mods/relics for weapons 
 that are looted. The mechanics are there for a great game, its just long away from being playable 
 at this point.
  
  As far as areas and levels, there are small stations, with a bunch of portal/instances in them. 
 There are two types of instances: ones that lead to a dead end, just for quests (a dungeon basically) , 
 and some with a portal at the end that leads to another station. Theres no variation between either. 
 Its just basically a randomly generated dungeon with some halls and rooms and a portal at the end, 
 or not. Themes vary slightly from a road (as youll see in the demo) , to a sewer, to a field, to 
 a city. Im at level 15 and this is all ive seen thus far though ive been to about 5-6 stations. 
 Multiplayer is the same thing, exxcept youll see other people at the stations and can party up 
 with 5 people. Again the party system is buggy.
  
  They need to add more themes/props to the levels which is something they said they are working 
 on as well as other additions as time goes by. Like i said in the beginning, I would not recommend 
 this game right now, but check back in a few months as theres much potential 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkyFlyChicken
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  After playing through the first 3-4 hubs of this game (areas where you can receive quests, and 
 venture out into killing zones ) , I almost don't even care to finish the game.
  
  To start, there are a few glaring bugs still left in the game, a primary one being mobs that get 
 frozen in place. This was especially annoying while fighting a legendary creature, hoping for good 
 loot drop, and having the enemy lock in place with only a small tick of life left. The mobs that 
 freeze cannot damage you, or be damaged. Wierd thing is, eventually the mobs start moving again, 
 to some extent, but still cannot be damaged.
  
  I also noticed a few optimization issues. I have 2gb of ram, an AMD Athlon 64 3500+, and a Radeon 
 X850XT, I had dynamic lighting turned off, and all other options on high settings. I could run 
 around heavily populated areas (populated with enemies) , fires and lights all around, and get no 
 slowdown, and then after lengthy playtimes, the game would start to turn into a slideshow until 
 I would port out of an instance, and back in.
  
  With all of that out of the way, I wish there was something good I could say about the gameplay, 
 other than it's extremely easy. I remember a lot of the fanboys on forums telling people NOT to 
 judge the game by the demo, and not to even judge the tutorial levels by the demo, because it was 
 a very old build.
  
  THIS IS ENTIRELY UNTRUE. WHAT YOU SEE IN THE DEMO, IS EXACTLY WHAT YOU WILL EXPERIENCE DURING THE 
 FIRST PORTION OF THE GAME. The difficulty, the missions, it's all exact. The only difference being 
 that when (in the demo) you are sent to Covent Garden Approach, you enter a tunnel instead of the 
 open (and blocked off) area you end up in within the demo (and therefore continue on with the game) .
 
  
  Enemies barely damaged me, except a boss that I faced after going through a portal to hell (looks 
 like portal out of Oblivion) . Playing as a marksman, I went through every instance so far with 
 barely a scratch, got more loot than I could shake a stick at, and became incredibly bored with 
 the game.
  
  The graphics and atmosphere look pretty good, monster designs aren't bad at all. sound design is 
 pretty decent as well, but unfortunately that is about all the game has going for it.
  
  Also, the world does not feel connected. It's not open, you end up in hubs, that have portals to 
 killing zones . Once you finish certain missions in those areas, another portal will be unlocked 
 , allowing you to move on to the next hub. It really disconnects the player from the world, making 
 the world just seem like a collection of levels thrown together, accessable by a hub, with no real 
 feeling of it being a full world.
  
  Also, even though the graphics are detailed and pretty decent, you will continue to see the same 
 textures and models constantly. Underground Tunnels, hell (which looks like areas out of Clive 
 Barker's Undying) , and destroyed London cityscape. That's pretty much it, at least for the first 
 4 hubs of the game that you will reach. This makes the game feel even more repetitive than it already 
 is.
  
  After playing this game, I really had to rethink my review of Tabula Rasa. NPC's in Tabula Rasa 
 take cover, reinforcements beam down (Friendly and enemy) , the world feels more dynamic and open. 
 And even with a seeming lack of content in Tabula Rasa at launch, compared to Hellgate London, 
 TR is an amazingly deeper game, with more variety, more dynamic interaction, and a much better 
 story. Truthfully though, Hellgate is not an MMORPG, but they are offering a subscription fee that 
 is close to a standard MMORPG fee. I would much rather pay the fee for Tabula Rasa than for Hellgate: 
 London, because they really can't do much (in my opinion) to expand Hellgate enough to change the 
 game up. Throwing in more text asking you to kill 10 of X Mob isn't going to cut it as extra content, 
 and the world is not alive enough, nor is the game requiring servers heavy enough to require a 
 fee. My Advice: Stay far away from Hellgate London, unless you really want a breeze of an FPS Style 
 RPG to play online (it is playable in 3rd person also) . If you actually want story, depth, or challenge 
 to your game, avoid this like the plague. For sure, avoid the fee, because there is absolutely 
 no way that this game is worth any type of subscription model. The subscription model for this 
 game has to be one of the biggest scams I've seen so far, and I'm not even a huge fan of paying 
 15 dollar a month fees for the MMO's that I play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opalescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  It's a great game ... if you can get past the bugs.
  
  For me, the trouble started with chugging graphics. And by chugging I mean it can't get any lower 
 without being frozen. It was literally one frame per second: a slideshow, not a video game. And 
 my graphics card is not a lightweight - it's a fairly beefy nVIDIA GeForce 7950 GT. My processor 
 is a Core2 DUO with 4GB of RAM, so I can't quite explain why I would be having such issue with 
 my game. I suppose it may have something to do with being in DirectX 9 instead of 10 but I doubt 
 it should be that since I am far above the minimum requirements. By the way, these chugging graphics 
 remain even if I set the graphics options to their lowest setting. So be aware! This might happen 
 to you.
  
  That said, the parts I COULD play were excellent. The game is very addictive, and I can understand 
 why people would give it a high score. If I could actually play the game the way it was meant to 
 be played it would have the same addicting draw that Diablo and Diablo II used to have, and you'll 
 have an absolute blast trying to make the ultimate uber1337 weapon.
  
  In the end it all comes down to luck. If you can get your rig to run this thing then you'll probably 
 enjoy it. If not well, I don't see why I would highly rate a game I can't even play. I should mention 
 that I HAVE heard rumors to the effect that this game is not slow because of the same reasons Crysis 
 would be slow.
  
  It has been said that Hellgate London was sloppily coded in the same way that Neverwinter Nights 
 2 was sloppily coded. In other words, apparently Hellgate London uses up far more memory than its 
 graphics would seem to warrant, much like how NWN2 did. If that's the case, then buyer beware! 
 You might just have to shell out $100+ on a graphics cards for sub-par graphics, at least relative 
 to the amount of money you're spending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacKings384
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  I was a massive fan of the Diablo series. So when I found out the creators of Diablo were making 
 a game, I basically told myself I had to buy this game. I certainly wasn't disappointed. One of 
 the great things about the game is that it doesn't push your cpu too hard. I have a fairly standard 
 laptop, and experience zero lag on decent settings. The game is basically Diablo with better graphics, 
 a new story, and much much cooler armor/weapons. If you're a fan of Diablo, you'll like this. I 
 just hope it establishes a community like Diablo did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I certainly wouldn't compare this games play style to Diablo. However it is enjoyable assuming 
 you like FPS games. The plus over traditional FPS is you get a skill tree with subset of options 
 to help you as well as stats you can boost and plenty of items to pick up. As a summoner you get 
 to summon creatures to help you out and the skill tree allows you to improve skills so you can 
 summon more or make the creatures more durable or stronger. As an Engineer you can build robots 
 to fly around helping you shooting and distracting the enemy. I bought the game being concerned 
 I might have made a mistake and should have waited for more magazine/site reviews however I can 
 gladly say that fear was unjustified. The game is very fun and worth the price. The ability to 
 pick between 6 classes each with their own skill tree insures you'll have to play awhile before 
 getting bored. Also it's cool you can play online with other people and even see others not playing 
 with in between battle areas. Seems to be plenty of quests to keep you busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrichter6
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  My PC locked up 4-5 times playing @ 30hrs. Have a P35 mobo, duo core E3805, 4Gb PC 1024 Ram, GTX8800, 
 with resolution at 1024 x 768, so it shouldn't be locking up. But hey, it is fun, for anyone that 
 wants a good zombie hack and slash. You can play it simply as a hack and slash with trusty sword 
 and shield, summon, or mod guns to your hearts content. The graphics are nice, but the modules 
 are a bit too repetitve to get more than an 8.5 from me., a veteran RPG fan. Still, it is just 
 plain fun! Hope they patch it soon! ..
  
  adendum..... i am now at 100 hrs. and am SO PISSED OFF.... several times now, i have had to wait 
 for patches to complete quests... now stuck at another quest for shrine ... i have never had to wait 
 on patches to complete a game.... this game sucks! wait for about 6 months before you buy it... maybe 
 they will have some of these issues worked out.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shegs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  hellgate clones I know it sounds weird replacing diablo and all but not only is it time to replace 
 diablo I cant think of a better game to do it.
  far better than the sum of all its pieces, hellgate delivers where other action rpgs only mimic 
 the master. other games have given the first person view to RPGs and others have been hack and 
 slash. it is rare to see a game with the combination of both of those elements that actually works. 
 and this game actually works. There are still some bugs and the lag isn't great but if you are 
 looking for a good time killing the minions of hell, look no further. all I know is that I cant 
 wait to see the first hellgate clone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stemce11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Drab locations, poor creature AI and no LAN play spoils what could have been a great game and turns 
 it into ooh look at my loot ,on the plus side spells and effects look great and the character classes 
 are well thought out and complement each other. network play seems erratic often dropping connection. 
 Clipping is also a major concern as it common for yourself and creatures to get stuck on the scenery. 
 all in all a huge disappointment for a complete diablo nut not sure i can be bothered to go further 
 then lvl 15 just to see the high end skills / spells 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blade_of_mercy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  
  The game starts up with choosing one of six classes, of three factions and fighting zombies and 
 knee-height critters with unimaginative assault rifles, fireball spells and steel swords in maintenance 
 tunnels. Once you're done with the menial 'newbie phase' things quickly turn into teaming up with 
 other players online to frantically battle stories-tall demons in London landmarks using a stunning 
 array of weapons. Fireblades, corrupt blades, thermite assault rifles, nightblades, swarm missile 
 launchers, vulcan pistols (!) , hive guns, flamethrowers and a lot more.
  
  The premise of the game is ultimately pretty cool and the storyline is decent, compared to most 
 online-heavy games and the quests are structured very well. The voice acting, while does not appeal 
 to everybody, appeals to some. The voice acting isn't bad, it's quite good actually. It seems though 
 as if Flagship decided that all characters in the game HAD to be overzealous, paranoid or schizophrenic. 
 I guess you would be one of those if all hell broke lose.
  
  As the game has been designed by the same guys that did Diablo, it's quite obvious that a lot of 
 thought has gone into weapon design. As in Diablo, the weapons can be modded using ammo clips, 
 scopes and batteries. The lead difference is that the rare item drops are more frequent in this 
 game and that you can upgrade weapons and armour to match your current level. This means that you 
 don't have to painstakingly hunt for another helmet that gives you +4 to all attributes while sticking 
 with the one you have despite it's defense going out of use 5 levels ago.
  
  The factions play very differently from each other, aside the high amounts of strafing you need 
 to do. Note that I mentioned 'factions' rather than 'classes'. The factions are that of the Templar, 
 Cabalists and Hunter, reprising the roles of close combat, spellcasters and Quakers. Each faction 
 is further split into two more classes changes the playstyles. And depending on how you distribute 
 your skills, each class can be further split up. For example, a Marksman can load up skills that 
 improve critical hits, increase range and damage and allows airstrikes to play a very long range 
 support character. On the other hand, he could load up on short-fused grenades and skills that 
 improve rate of fire to go in SWAT-style.
  
  Sound and ambiance in the game is done well. The distinct loneliness of the English streets and 
 distant gunfire can change into heart-thumping music with all manner of shrieks and explosions 
 at moment's notice. That said, the combat themes do put you in the mood.
  
  THE BAD
  
  The main gripe that's going around is that the game isn't complete. It is very buggy, with items 
 disappearing, characters getting mysteriously stuck and the game crashing and freezing frequently 
 on some systems. The game's doesn't make it easy to group up and fight other than just 'Autopartying' 
 (joining random teams to do quests that you don't want) . Despite being the spiritual successor 
 of Diablo 2, PVP isn't catered for very well. Other lesser gripes include the missing ability to 
 simply split a group of 10 items into seperate piles, weak chat function (chat commands still have 
 to be input like /chat *player*) and no shared character storage. Hopefully the December patch 
 will make this game complete.
  
  Being a recent game, the servers are having extreme difficulties. The servers aren't very reliable. 
 Personally, I'm not very bothered dropping out every so often (once in every one and a half hours, 
 the worst being thrice in less than half an hour) but some players get very frustrated. But my 
 experience with MMOs is that these problems even out after a couple of months.
  
  Graphically, the game isn't stellar, compared to other first person shooters out there like UT3, 
 Crysis and Bioshock. However, compared to other MMOs, it's very good.
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE
  
  Despite being incomplete, glitchy and lag/dropout heavy, I think the game has some good ideas 
 and a very strong potential. There's a lot of content and depth that will keep you coming back 
 for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drithius
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Take your traditional indie diablo clone you can find in most bargain bins. You know the type - 
 little to no story to speak of, dull gameplay, little imagination in character skills, etc. Now, 
 slap a 3-D first/third person perspectve on it and you have Hellgate: London.
  
  Having followed this game for the past year and playing in beta for several weeks, I keep finding 
 myself bored after every hour I set aside to rummage through the same tunnels and city streets, 
 shoot at monsters that mindlessly charge you, and pick up 100% uninspiring equipment upgrades.
 
  
  [Story]
  ---Drab, dull, inconsequential. You get the idea. I don't mind having to read quest dialog. I think 
 Planescape: Torment to be one of the greatest RPG's afterall. But when all quest dialog consists 
 of 2-4 word phrases per window that you must click to read through, I grow quite uninterested. 
 Especially when every secondary quest is either a kill count, collection quota, or simple exploration 
 of a map. These are mindless errands, not quests. And don't get me started on 'quest' NPC's - they 
 are about as dull as can be imagined. ---When you get around to completing one of the main storyline's 
 quests, you can hardly tell it wasn't just another secondary errand quest. Because that's all it 
 was, really... well, that and a spiffy blue portal that you pop through to talk to yet another 
 NPC who has ADHD when it comes to delivering her dialog.
  
  [Gameplay]
  ---What gameplay? You run around with unlimited ammmo and/or grunting wildly with your sword. Despite 
 being billed as an MMOG to entice otherwise ignorant consumers, actually having people play alongside 
 you is a rarity because of the group-forming mechanism. Namely, there isn't one. You basically 
 spam in-game channels that you wish to group and hope that, amidst the game's introverted 14 year 
 old population, that there's an exception.
  ---For Christ's sake, you can't even split a stack of items. Is this concept so mindbending? It 
 was only introduced... hell, I don't even recall since it's so basic. Want to have full control 
 over how you advance your character's skill points? Too bad, the first point is casually pre-spent 
 for you.
  
  This game is so incredibly shallow and unpolished that I doubt it would have ever made a blip on 
 anyone's gaming radar if it were not for the fact that the developers are tied to Diablo2. Judge 
 this game on what it is and not what you wish it to be; if you feel that this game is anything 
 but an incredibly dull and incomplete Scifi Diablo clone with no innovation from the past ten years 
 of gaming, you're lying to yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kniterait
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 4
  Graphics - 4
  Sound - 5
  Value - 3
  
  The game is as easy as holding down your mouse button and aiming at a siting duck.
  
  - Have 
 to pay a monthly fee, to be able to unlock certain features, that usualy are free.
  - Its overrated
  
  - Its unbalanced, normal mobs are very easy to defeat, just hold down your 
 mouse button and its done, al-tho the bosses have a ridiculously big HP pool and takes a long, 
 long time to get em down.
  
  - Visuals are disastrous, there barely is any eye candy, no vistas
  
  - L-I-N-E-A-R, yes you 
 have a entire level to explore.. but it doesn't really encourage you to do it when the quest mob 
 is just 10 meters from the starting point.
  
  - The story is rather old, it isn't really interesting neither have the ''OH SNAP'' effect.
  
 
  - The quests, there are, seriously, too many pointless ''kill 10 of that, come back'' quests for 
 almost every monster there is a quest to kill 12 of it and return to the quest giver, having a 
 follow up thats exactly the same, only with other mobs.
  
  - 100 Weapons? Dream on, roughly 13 are for each class, and 8 of them completely useless and are 
 useful for nothing
  
  The game would had been a complete complete success like 3 years ago but now the graphics and the 
 storyline really has to be better than something like that to be a ''Good'' game.
  
  Yeah, i am a big Diablo fan but this is just a mish-mash of a bit or RPG and a lot of FPS. The 
 result is a rather terrible monster, they call it Hellgate: London.
  
  The good thing is, when you have a rather old computer, you could run this game, but again with 
 problems since some of the effects in the game let the fps jump like hell.
  
  But when you enjoy storyline driven shooter games with a taste of RPG, then this game is for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Honestly, if you wanted a complete review you could probably just look up Diablo 2 reviews, and 
 everywhere it refers to the setting replace "dank medieval dungeons" with "post-apocalyptic city". 
 The only real differences between the two games are the viewpoint (isometric view for Diablo and 
 3rd person/1st Person for Hellgate) , setting, and the way the levels are laid out.
  
  The level layout is actually the biggest improvement from the Diablo series. Hellgate is laid out 
 a little more intuitively in that the entire world is based around a 2D map as opposed to Diablo's 
 act system. Having played Hellgate for a good 7 hours now, I have to say that I really appreciate 
 this change. I feel like I'm not doing as much time-wasting wandering as I did in Diablo.
  
  Another aspect of the game, and probably the most disappointing, is the lack of creepy ambiance. 
 Diablo is one of the kings of mood, and Hellgate doesn't really live up to its predecessor in that 
 department. It's really too bad since that's what made Diablo 1 and 2 such special games. Hellgate 
 is still entertaining even though you aren't really too worried about the fact that Hell is taking 
 over the universe, but I just remember being truly scared during certain moments in Diablo 1/2.
 
  
  In the end, if you dig the hack & slash action/adventure/RPG elements of any game in this genre 
 you will probably appreciate Hellgate for what it is: a good, but not a legendary game. With that 
 said, I'll be playing this game for a long, long time. 
  
  --edit --
  Due to unbearable issues with bugs I've lowered my score of the game from 8.5 to a generous 7. 
 If they manage to tie up the numerous loose ends that exist within the game I don't see any reason 
 why I wouldn't bump it back up to 8 or 8.5 again. I am, however, begining to tire of the repetitious 
 level design. While Diablo 1 & 2 managed to keep things fresh because of the sheer size of the 
 boards, Hellgate's levels are small and so the repetition is much more obvious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavoiejh
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game through the beta and into the retail version, and the game is ridiculously 
 addictive. It has that same feel that Diablo did where you just want to go into the next zone to 
 see if you'll get that lucky drop. Then you clear the level, and figure the same thing about the 
 next one. The graphics may not be on the level of Crysis or other new games, but they are still 
 great, and it would be very unrealistic to expect those kind of graphics in a game where the level 
 design is never the same twice. In short, Hellgate: London is impossible to put down and I find 
 myself thinking about how to distribute my skill points when I'm not playing. Now my only dilemma 
 is whether to subscribe monthly or to pay the $150 up front for the lifetime subscription. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexanderStyhr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Hellgate: London has been on it's way for years and finally i got my chance to put my hands on 
 it!
  Even though i haven't played it for a very long time i am already addicted to the game and the 
 gameworld. The history is great and i also like the enviorments of the destroyed city of London! 
 :D
  
  There is many good classes to choose from which gives the game a lot of variation. You can choose 
 between ranged classes, melee and also classes who depends more on their companions and pets.
 
  
  The graphics looks fine and the monster animation looks even better!
  
  But afterall it is not the graphics the game is about but the gameplay of course!
  The classical 
 hack'n slash gameplay never get's boring and for some reason i don't know why. But the game never 
 looses it's fun and when you cannot not if the next demon will drop something nicely, you just 
 keep going on! :D
  
  The soundeffects is also good but i could use a better dialog and it is quite annoying that the 
 voice-acting dosen't replace all the quest reading.
  At least the reading could be like WoW, which have something extraordinary about the reading.
 
  
  But all in all: The game is very funny and very addicting. I simply just love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulzmaker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  I've played almost all games, appeared this year on pc, but none of them made me enjoy it so much. 
 I just can't stop playing this. The producers made a fantastic job with Hellgate: London, it's 
 almost perfect. I found some bugs, on the stairs like within the sewers, the corpses float. But 
 other than that the game is almost perfect, addictive actually. I really recommend this one. I 
 just can't believe that games this good are still being released. I can't wait for a collector's 
 edition or a GotY version to be on the market, i recommend that you buy it too, it's worth every 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sussa
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  A lot has been said about this game and alot has been expected from it. Looking at the reviews 
 sums it up. We have people showering scores of 10 while others settling for a 1, with a few others 
 in between. Reviews slamming the game completely is not fair and I think people are just having 
 a go at it. Does the game deliver?, does it live up to the expectations.? I think that Hellgate 
 is a good game, that could have turned out to be a classic if a little more attention was given. 
 Firstly the game still trows the odd bug at you and Flagship will need to act fast to iron out 
 these short comings. Secondly the online setup is a complete mess, no one knows what exactly one 
 will get for his subscription. The EULA did not help either. The side quest are too basic cut of 
 the mill stuff, these require a bit of more originality. The game lacks that feel that you are 
 on an epic adventure fighting for the living. On the other hand this game delivers tons of fun 
 and replayability. Poeple moaning that the graphics are not good as some other FPS have missed 
 the point completely. This is NOT a FPS game, not even Diablo for its time had cutting edge graphics, 
 what this game has is fast and addictive game play. Reviews are even moaning that the game lacks 
 a sense of place, for godsake this game gives you random generated levels, what more can you ask 
 for. I think people are at a loss where to place this game and are picking on it's bad points only. 
 Give Flagship sometime and if they come up with the solutions for the shortcomings I still think 
 that this game can be up their with the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom1076
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, if you are looking for instant multi-player actions and interacting with real players immediately 
 then don't buy this game yet because just like any other online game out there when it first launch, 
 there just aren't enough people playing this yet to make it crowded and the chatting system is 
 still under criticism because it made chatting with other players extremely difficult if anyone 
 even interest in talking at all because most people are rushing levels right now so you will scarcely 
 see anyone talking to you and warmly welcome you like other online games.
  
  And please note this game leaning toward multi-player-instances (guild war style) rather than MMORPG, 
 so you may find yourself solo most of the time if you don't have real life friend playing with 
 you although there is an auto-party function which barely anyone know of yet so it's will be almost 
 impossible to find a party.
  
  The game play however is very solid and the graphic and sound is flawless if your system is at 
 the recommended specs. The main quest is great with a good story line in contrast to the boring 
 and repetitive side quests (kill x monsters in y area) like in many Korean MMORPG. So if you like 
 interacting with other players online immediately then wait for this game to get older. Or if you 
 can't wait watching all the trailers and such then go on and try it you won't be disappointed as 
 a whole just the multi-player aspect, oh and did i mentioned the tremendous amount of awesome loots** 
 that will keep you playing for hours yearning for more?
  
  ** this is the reason why the side quest categories get 6 points instead of 4, the loots will keep 
 you playing ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-Fett
Rating: 1
Date: May 30, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I origanaly gave this game 10/10, but after its recent updates thats f**ked the marksman over, 
 the game is a worthless peice of junk. They couldn't just leave well enough alone. Those people 
 who play as blade masters whine:' ( The marksman is too powerful" duh, Guns are stronger then 
 swords, you dont see the fricken united states army using swords do you?
  
  They're so called "improvements" gimped up alot of peoples perfectly good lvl 50 marksmen, now 
 they are so weak, only the greasiest of no lifed losers can "pimp out" the marksman to be an @$$ 
 kicker.
  
  I did get 409 good fun hours out of it b4 its selfdestruct brought on by its devs. 
  
  Do not 
 buy this game, it is a huge waste of money now, maybe if they undo they're mistakes it would be 
 worth getting, but now no. This game is just a rip off of Diablo, its sad that the developers can 
 think of anything new so they just make the same game over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christopherbire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Too bad the demo for this game had to be sooo horrific. It was probably one of the worst representations 
 of a game I have ever seen in a demo.
  
  But since that demo, they have created an extremely fun and addictive game. For those that love 
 fast paced RPG action with interesting loot, great skill progression, and some online play, this 
 is an excellent find.
  
  Graphics look fantastic and run fast and smooth.
  
  I only with the music/score was a little stronger. But I suppose that since it has built in voice 
 chat, they thought not many would listen to the music. But I wish it was there anyway.
  
  All in all, killer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved Diablo2, and while its still a good game i got bored with it about 2 years ago. 
 I have looked far and wide for a game that would fill its place, Titan Quest, Loki, many many more 
 all fell short for me. Hellgate however has just what I liked about Diablo2, endless variety, you 
 can keep upgrading your weapon, you keep getting random drops, random environments etc etc, just 
 all the lil stuff you liked about diablo is here in a different form.
  
  Graphics: id give them a 7 they are not terribly impressive by todays standards and the engine 
 seems a bit old or bad w. e. seems like it could be better. Still they are good and get the job 
 done you just wont be drooling over them.
  
  Sound: Bit weak i felt, the weapons could have better sound effects, kinda felt a lil under powered. 
 Music was good environmental effects good. Gameplay: I liked it, the fps (shooter) mode was fun, 
 the third person melee felt a bit floaty to me, like the guys werent totally attatched to ground 
 and the hits didnt feel like they actually made contact with the monsters.
  
  Overall: I found it very fun with and i liked all the customization of the weapons and armor, and 
 literally endless options for them. Also whatever flaws I thought there was I am sure we can expect 
 EXCELLENT customer support, since these were the Diablo2 guys, and im sure they will listen to 
 the community of players, not to mention..... NO MONTHLY FEES.
  
  BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denz323i
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game but after playing it I found myself disappointed. There is just nothing 
 about it that makes me want to keep playing. The most enjoyable part for me was going around blowing 
 up the barrels. It was then that I realized that the game was not going to hold my attention.
 
  
  Performance on my high end machine was average and I found the visuals to be so-so. Much of the 
 environments felt small and repetitive.
  
  The sound effects are harsh and sometimes didn't seem to fit. The NPC dialog was better but came 
 across odd sounding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I've finally accepted that I have an addiction, called RPG. Anything roleplaying sucks me in and 
 rarely spits me out. I've been following Hellgate: London news ever since I heard the development 
 team behind Diablo II (one of my top 5 games of all time) was responsible for this new entry in 
 the field. After a few disconcerting articles (read: Plays like an FPS or Subscription based ) , 
 I started to worry and even took the game off my watch list here at GameSpot. However, after seeing 
 a few gameplay videos and reading some of the Co-op articles from editors on the web, I started 
 feeling that flame of interest again.
  
  Over the last few years, I have been a World of Warcraft player on and off since the original beta 
 test in 2004. Whenever I would deactivate my account, I would try other games and find them less 
 filling, less fun. Ever since I started the Hellgate: London beta, I have been letting my WoW characters 
 gain rest bonus in the inns, because this is one addicting ride!
  
  To begin, I'll list the things I find annoying, and save the good for the end. First, the NPC's 
 - I've never seen a more shallow, lame bunch. The voice acting is decent, but the one liners they 
 throw at you when interacting are atrocious and downright laughable. Also, many of them look the 
 same, and this reflects on the variety of character choices for you as well. Of course, you don't 
 play an action RPG for the story, now, do you? And once your character is covered in armor, you 
 don't see their face any more, so it doesn't really matter. The background setting and initial 
 story of demons taking over London and the world is well thought out and expounded in the graphic 
 novels, rendered movies, and the web, but in the game, there is very little. I just don't think 
 they expose enough of the world story for you to really sink your teeth into. Second, the randomness 
 of the levels (this will also be in my Good section as well) . The problem here is, every level, 
 though random, feels the same - same tilesets, same basic layouts, same side alcoves, etc. However, 
 it isn't all bad, as I'll expound later.
  
  Third, subscription-based multiplayer with no LAN play. Basically, you can play the multiplayer 
 without a subscription, however, you'll miss out on future content that WON'T be released in expansion 
 packs for those that don't want to pay the monthly fee. I would also have liked to see a LAN based 
 play mode similar to Diablo II where you could play locally with friends or go online to Battle. Net 
 - but I also want a beach house in Malibu, but we don't always get what we want. The only real 
 issue with no LAN play, is as of launch day (Halloween) , the servers were down until almost 11:00 
 pm MST, so I bought the game anxious to get online after the beta character wipe, and couldn't.
 
  
  With those things in mind, don't get discouraged, because here is the good:
  
  First, random map generation, monster placement and loot generation. I love going into an area 
 that before was a London street, but now is a series of maintenance rooms in the underground, or 
 a sewer. Even better though, are the randomly placed monsters where you are rarely facing the same 
 enemies in the same zone (unless they're quest related) . Among those random monsters is a few rare 
 (blue) or epic (orange) monsters that drop even better random loot. I love running down a sewer 
 tunnel to see an orange title floating above a monster in the distance! Woot! There are some areas 
 that are intentionally not random, such as the British Museum and the Hellrifts, but their monster 
 placement, portal locations, etc, are still somewhat varied. Some of these non-random areas are 
 incredible to look at and experience, and in a way, they make the more random areas sore of blah 
 .
  
  Second, Variety. The monster catalog is huge and varied, and I rareley get tired of seeing the 
 different types around, especially the bigger boss monsters. Some of the boss encounters are very 
 memorable, and I loved solving the combat puzzle that was presented with each one. There are many 
 different skills for each of the different classes, and each skill point spent is a step towards 
 the uber-character of your dreams. You have three weapon slots, and many ways to customize each 
 weapon - from adding your own special trait or inserting mods that up the power, range, critical 
 strike chance, or type of damage dealt. That is the great thing - after spending a 20 minute run 
 through an area, you may find yourself spending an extra half-hour just customizing your inventory. 
 And when the loot gets too much in your bag, just dismantle a few items to collect their materials 
 which are then used on creating mods or new things later on! I could go on and on about the variety, 
 but it's just too varied (in a good way) .
  
  Third, the action. Though it can be repetitive, fights in the game are fast and furious, and based 
 on your weapon loadout and skill tree, each fight can be quite a puzzle. You may be fighting heavily 
 shielded Imp Snipers at one point, but once you get past their shields, they fall quickly to your 
 physical damage (time for a shield overload modded weapon) . Or you might have a psychic damage 
 based weapons set and face a group of creatures immune or highly resistant to that. Thank goodness 
 you brought along your fire and poison damage modified sniper rifle! Add a friend into the mix 
 in multiplayer and you have more difficult monsters, but more variety of skills and damage to throw 
 at them.
  
  Fourth, the accessibility of it all. This is a game designed to be easy to play, with enough complexity 
 to keep most gamers happy. It will take less than five minutes for even the newest gamer to pick 
 this up and start killing zombies. Swapping weapons, using skills, learning the inventory system, 
 and even finding your way around the tube tunnels is a piece of cake. I love the mini-map! It even 
 shows available quest givers, not just completed quests like other MMO's. Oh, and did I mention 
 you could solo the whole game? You don't need a group at all for any of the missions. In fact, 
 some of the sequences get quite a bit harder if you are in a team, like the much touted RTS mission 
 . So for those of you who don't like to commit to a three hour raid in WoW or despise gathering 
 4-10 friends to beat some boss you can't beat on your own, this is the game for you.
  
  So the bottom line? Much more good than bad, and yes, I'll probably pay for the subscription for 
 a while, but I still don't know how much value a subscriber will get above and beyond what is already 
 in the game. That remains to be seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London is a multiplayer game that uses a model similar to Guild Wars where players meet 
 up in centralized areas and can go off an adventure in instances. While there is a single player 
 game included, who is going to play it? You can get the same single player experience in the multiplayer 
 game and show off all your legendary loot to everyone else. It is hard to imagine a multiplayer 
 game today having much worse of a launch than Hellgate London has had over the last two days. Flagships 
 vauge and misleading messages about down times and status are becoming comical. Flagship had been 
 touting the great Halloween launch with special events for subscribers, but since they can't get 
 any subscribers (remember the subscribtion servers are down) they decided to release a patch for 
 everyone that allowed people to get the extra content. The small twenty minute patch took the servers 
 down last night starting at 8PM on the East Coast and five hours later they still were not back 
 up.
  
  You can go buy the game and pay nothing extra for the multiplayer experience and basically run 
 through the single player experience over and over or you can pay 9.99 a month (140ish area if 
 you want a one time founder price) for the subscription service. With the subscription service 
 you get access to elite and hardcore style of play and the promise of regular additional content, 
 events and items etc. I find it hard to believe that Flagship is going to be able to pump out enough 
 regular content to make the 9.99 price sustainable for long. Dungeon Runners 4.99 price point would 
 have probably been a more acceptable model for them to follow.
  
  The gameplay itself is excellent. The character classes are diverse with everything from melee 
 combatants to engineers who build attack robots. The controls are smooth and easy to use. The graphics 
 aren't ground breaking but aren't hard on the eyes either.
  
  I think it is safe to say that a lot of the negative reviews we have seen are based upon a couple 
 of factors... the terrible launch coupled with pitiful communication and the questionable subscription 
 service price structure they have set in place. What would have been a 9 reviewed game is going 
 to get a low 8.5 in my book... as the days and weeks pass that slide could go up or down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLURELLYFAST
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  This is basically diablo in diff place with diff characters in 3d . Why did it take them so long 
 to make this? WHY DO THE GRAPHICS SUCK? Why is it not fun? Maybe if they took some of the money 
 they spend on the adds with the 5 dollar Halloween make up and added it to heiring better people 
 this game would be worth talking about. The devs are big on talk and small on promises. Where are 
 all those cool moves like the ones I saw in the trailer? Have u ever played Sumoner ( Volition 
 1999 or so) this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I am one of the people that has been waiting for this game and following it since it's inception. 
 I can see how the game can turn some people off. If you are looking for an FPS game, look elsewhere. 
 If your PC is marginal for gaming, look elsewhere. I truly believe the game is made for the guys 
 that have the $2500.00 + PC's. I don't think that the graphics are dated, especially if you can 
 run it in DX10 with most of the settings turned up, such as extreme pixel shader. I have yet to 
 have a crash, and have been playing for hours. I have only tried the evoker class, so I couldn't 
 tell you if other classes have bugs. The one I picked is friggin' awesome!!.
  
  Example of computer needed to run this game and get the full graphic benefit:
  
  I have 3 PC's 
 in my house with Vista. One of the has a C2duo E6300 OC's to 2.4ghz, 2g RAM and a 8800GTS 320. 
 When we turn on dx10, it is almost unplayable, but in direct X 9 with modest settings, it works 
 well and is very playable. But the graphics to look a little dated.
  
  My PC on the other hand, has a E6850 @ 3.8ghz with 4G RAM (64bit vista) , 2x8800GTX, and I can play 
 @ 1600x1200 with everything all the way turned up except for AA, which I turn on Medium, and it 
 is as smooth as glass!! (turn off vsync!!) And it is absolutely gorgeous!! Most likely I will use 
 this game to show off the graphic power of my PC it looks so good.
  
  The only thing I can see as dated is the way your character runs. It is a little stiff. And, the 
 voice acting is not the best, but it is not the worst. I feel these quirks are made up for with 
 the great gameplay.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, it is not like anything else, but very easy to play, learn, and get addicted 
 to. I can't wait to try more of the clasees. I think this may be one of those games that people 
 will hate or love, but not really much for middle ground.
  
  I say if you have a bangin' system, it is a must have, but for those with lower end rigs, you may 
 want to wait until a price drop and an upgrade.
  
  Also, I have not tried the multiplayer, but that is not why I bought this game. Still, I plan on 
 trying it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKUMA211
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The biggest mistake you can make going into Hellgate is expecting a fps from the screenshots. Despite 
 the view point for a few of the classes this is an action-rpg in the same vein as Diablo 2. Okay, 
 lets start out talking about the first th9ing you'll see when you start the game, the graphics. 
 I will be the first to admit that these are not the most detailed graphics that will ever grace 
 your monitor. But you need to remember that you are talking about a mmo here. In an mmo setting 
 it is a huge mistake to have jericho or crysis-like graphics. It puts too much a barrier between 
 players. Picture this: you have 2 players partied p working together in a dungeon, one has a high 
 end alienware computer while his friend is using a 4-year-old average system. Now Johnny Sweetbox 
 runs into a horde of enemies and doesnt skip a frame and just starts slaughtering while Jimmy Suckbox 
 lags behind slowing down to 1-10 fps during the whole room even on low-medium settings. Sure our 
 friend Johnny has a great looking set up and can see every organ falling out of the zombie, but 
 Jimmy is sitting in the corner staring at a wall trying to raise his fps. Now in all likelyhood 
 Jimmy is going to quit soon due to frustration. As far as sound goes there is nothing special to 
 say about this game. The voices work, but are not memorable. The music is great but for some reason 
 it doesn't seem to play most the time which I hope is just a bug. Did you play Diablo 2? Then you've 
 pretty much played Hellgate and as most the people who answered yes to the last question will tell 
 you that is not exactly a bad thing. Diablo sucked players in and held their attention for years 
 with only 5 acts and about 15 different repeating tilesets for random stages. The same could be 
 said for Hellgate since most the areas will look the same but somehow the game manages to stay 
 interesting. This is mostly thanks the the extremely diverse character classes and the pursuit 
 of sweet sweet randomized loot. At launch there are 6 different classes divided into 3 types: the 
 templar (melee) , hunters (gun users) , and cabalists (magic users) . Each one plays very differently 
 from one another from the dual wielding blademaster to the bot building engineer, each has a unique 
 play style so its hard not to find a class that doesn't fit your play style. Th biggest gripe I 
 guess I have with the game so far is all the glitches and UI problems. The game JUST launched so 
 some bugs are to be expected but some simple things like scaling the UI to your res would have 
 been nice to see and the most insulting thing of all is what they've done with the chat window. 
 Even on a 1680x1050 setting the chat window takes up about 1/3rd of my screen which is odd because 
 in beta the UI was much simpler and just had scrolling text on the left of the screen when you 
 weren't typing but now you cant see any chatting unless you keep this large black overlapping window 
 open... odd choice FSS. So it basically boils down to this: if you don't like to game already... 
 then you probably aren't reading anymore, but for those who are thinking of trying it just remember 
 to expect an rpg and not a fps. And for people looking for the next Diablo clone, say hellooooooooooo 
 to Diablo 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercutio117
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  In case you didnt know. This game is Diablo 3. Only the people that dont like the diablo series, 
 give it bad reviews. Its a great game in my opinion, and the online is great. Customizations through 
 a robot (Charsi imbues) makes it fun and random. Imagine how many people still play Diablo 2.... Its 
 a great game, dispite what people say, I noticed all the bad reviewers are normally Xbox Player, 
 Figures. hehe, well, what do you expect from that side of the table though?
  
  Give this game about 5 months, just like any other online RPG and it will be along with its brother 
 D2 as one of the greats, and will be referred to in its Proper Title name of Diablo 3'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnxpn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Like Diablo 2, this game gets better as you go. It's a shame that the demo was released because 
 it doesn't expose people to the greatness of this game. Hellgate truly shines when you start playing 
 online with people, getting sweet items, and progressing your character through new and unique 
 environments. The gameplay is fast paced and fun. I found myself getting heavily addicted to this 
 game while beta testing for it, and am pleased with the improvements that have been made for retail. 
 With the loot frenzy formula that made diablo so popular and the promise of frequent downloadable 
 expansions that could add new content like new character classes, I see this game being popular 
 for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jys84
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  There are SO many bugs that were not fixed from beta, it is ridiculous. About 1/4 of the features 
 promised at release are still not in the game. It is still unclear what a subscription will truly 
 offer that is worth $10...
  
  Basically if you are interested in this game, it is probably better to wait 1-3 months and come 
 back to see if the engine has been improved upon.
  
  After the less than stellar response to criticism during beta, I am one of the defectors who canceled 
 my order of the game. The game has potential, it just does not deliver upon them.
  
  As it stands, a 5/10 is about appropriate. If you can get past all the bugs, the gameplay is addicting.
 
  
  Some major bugs as of 10/31 launch, including Patch 0 .
  -Engineers (1 of the 6 classes) is unplayable. There is a major bug that inhibits the use of 1/3 
 of their skill tree, the major 1/3.
  -Game will randomly generate dead end maps that require you to exit and re-log in. You have to 
 hope you are lucky to get a good level.
  -Memory leaks... After playing for an hour on most good systems, you will crash due to memory usage 
 being full. Less time on poorer systems.
  -Summoners have issues with being able to summon their pets. Often requiring trips back to town 
 or logging out to resolve the bugs.
  
  There are other bugs, but they fall around that range. It is a game that needs more time, unfortunately 
 with other upcoming hit titles during the holiday season, it is unlikely Hellgate will amount to 
 what Diablo 2 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omar_shaolin
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Compared this game to the other games that will come out in a couple of days, maybe it could've 
 been a good game from a year ago or something, i thought that it would be something like oblivion 
 but in a different setting but it turned out to be a very big disappointment, wake up developers, 
 Crysis is here, they should start to compete with the biggest titles these days, cuz after i tried 
 crysis, cod4, unreal tournament 3 and timeshift demos, it feels strange to play a lower quality game 
 :) , i hope u agree with me guys cuz really this game feels kinda old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This certainly seems to be a bit of a Marmite game. Seems a lot of people either love it or hate 
 it. I personally think the game is fantastic, although it does have issues. It is also a shame 
 that they released the terrible demo, the difference between the demo and the actual game is huge.
 
  
  One of the first things to dissappoint is the graphics, even with everything set to max it looks 
 like a game from 2003 at times. As you start getting into the game though you start to see the 
 charm of the graphics. There are some nice looking demons in the game and they often surprise you 
 with little touches such as the first time you see one of the little critters suddenly split open 
 and a huge demon emerge, or when some of the larger demon come charging at you. I also think that 
 the graphics have been kept slightly simple to allow for a large number of on screen enemies. My 
 feelings on the graphics have changed from initial dissapointment to realising that they are actually 
 very nice considering the scope of the game with regards to enemy numbers and when taking into 
 account the way levels are randomly generated.
  
  As for the gameplay, it is simply fantastic. I was a huge fan of Diablo 2 and this seems like a 
 natural evolution of that game. At its heart is a quite simple formula of pitting the players against 
 hordes or almost mindless monsters. Sure, the enemy A. I. isn't going to be winning any awards, 
 but it is just so much fun that it becomes addictive. This is certainly one of those games where 
 you start out thinking you'll play for an hour, next thing you know 8 hours have flown by.
  
  The 6 character classes in the game are quite varied, although some seem more powerful than 
 others, and some have problems from the start. The summoner and enginner classes have pets that 
 you have no control over, and at times they seem to go off on rampages agroing everything in site. 
 There is a huge variety of armour, weapons, spells etc and it is quite fun trying to kit out your 
 character with the best stuff available to you and your often left with some difficult decisions 
 when it comes to which items to equip.
  
  There seems to be quite a debate with regards to the subscription content for the game. I personally 
 don't mind subscribing to a game. The problem I have at the moment is that other than the obvious 
 advantage of 24 character slots and a larger stash, I am struggling to see the benefit of subscribing. 
 We have the makers of Hellgate London telling us that there will be future content on a quarterly 
 basis for subscribers, but that seems like very little when you are basically paying the cost of 
 a full price game in subscriptions each quarter. I really think they need to look at ways of improving 
 the value for subscribers, something that makes it feel more of an MMO. I'd love to see something 
 like a 'Battlefronts' system where it is an instanced zone for subscribers only that offers large 
 scale battles against hordes of demons, no need to be in a group as the zone allows say 64+ players 
 to enter the fray, with repeatable quests and rewards or titles. This is just an example, but they 
 really do need to address the issue of sub content and make people want to hand over the extra 
 money.
  
  A few negatives are the ingame advertising which I really hate, especially as subscribers don't 
 seem to be able to disable the ads, although my experience so far is that I can't say I've even 
 noticed any ads in the game. I think it also depends on your expectations of the game as to how 
 well you will receive it. If you are expecting the next WoW then prepare to be let down, this game 
 is not trying to be the next WoW. If however you are a fan of the Diablo games, or like action 
 heavy RPG titles with a twist of mmolite, then this game could just be what your looking for.
 
  
  Overall I think this is one of the best releases this year, whether the online MMO part of it will 
 take off is another matter. I hope it does, and would like to see nothing more than a steady stream 
 of content for the game and wish the devs every success with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirus1210
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Now I know a lot of you are sitting out there with fresh memories of the TERRIBLE demo Flagship 
 Studios released not too long ago. And I felt the same pains you did when I loaded it up for the 
 first time and went ... this is it? But after talking to some people that had played the beta and 
 told me not to judge this book by it's cover, I was convinced (read: conned) into going out and 
 buying this game. Collectors edition no less, simply because previous to playing the demo, I was 
 REALLY looking forward to this one. So I get the game home in it's rather large and clumsy box 
 and start picking away at probably one of the nicer collectors edition bundles I've seen in a while 
 for 60 beans. Get it installed and am instantly thrown back into the same area that began the demo 
 and ended so frustrating. But there were a few KEY differences, it didn't end abruptly like it 
 did in the demo, it sure as hell didn't have the same look and feel as the demo (thanks to DirectX 
 10) , and it showed a TON more variety in the ghoulies that I was now happily thrusting my trusty 
 sword into. Early subscription issues aside, this game is worth taking a look at. I see it being 
 compared to Diablo and I can't argue that this game has NAILED that unique Diablo feel without 
 feeling like you just stepped out of Tristram and into Tristron ... it's high-tech cousin. Please! 
 For all of you out there that simply played the HORRENDOUS demo and threw this one aside, give 
 the retail version a try. I will mention however, that it has not been a fair walk in the part 
 trying to get this game running smoothly in DirectX 10. There seems to be a slight issue when there 
 are a lot of particles flying around. My 8800gts 640 grinds to a halt when there's WAY too many 
 explosions going on all at once. Aside from that, everything else is great.
  
  GIVE IT A TRY! You won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-o194
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This is one great game and i mean it its fun and addicting .
  
  Campaign: Was awesome missions varied from snatch and grab to utter destruction though i did incounter 
 some issues of dejavu with new sector maps but not that many Fun all around.
  
  Multi: Clearly this is why the game was made utterly flawless multiplayer its just a cracking good 
 time its one of those games that you play when you get off work you get your buddy on go on a quest 
 or two and have a great time.
  
  Graphics: Not the best but still very pleaseing to the eyes never disiaponted but iv never been 
 one to put much weight into graphics.
  
  Sound: This is another thing the game does thats just great youll never forget the sound of the 
 first big boss type you run into becuase when he dies his death scream is so nice.
  
  Now it might take you awhile to really flush out the controls and get comfortable but its like 
 riding a bike you dont forget it feels natural and the menu system is good too really easy to navigate
 
  
  With constantly changing backdrops youll never play enough to beat the game if your looking for 
 a open ended game this is it.
  
  Though there is one thing you should do and that is subscribe it gives you a buttload of new content 
 right off the bat and promises much more. BUT its not exactly needed you dont have to have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzum
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The subscription model is pathetic and the game is still full of bugs. The armor inventory is lacking 
 (no rings, necklace or shoulders) and most of the classes simply revolve around their main weapon 
 b/c the skill tree's are incredibly weak. The UI is probably the biggest offender next to the sub 
 model. It's not up to any recent RPG or MMO standards and you'll be shaking your head in amazement 
 that it was shipped with the game in the first place. If you like playing in 1 of 5 bland looking 
 settings (sewers, city streets, 2 types of demon sanctuaries and the 'Mind of 314' level) and unbelievable 
 repetitive gameplay without much sense of satisfaction; then this is the game for you. If you have 
 standards for your games, avoid this at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadeInFinland
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  According to legend, when the ravens depart the Tower of London, it will crumble to rubble and 
 disaster will befall England. As man became more dependent on science, believing only in what he 
 could define or create, ancient knowledge and rituals were lost to the antiquity of time.
  
  Flagship Studios was established by the creators of Diablo, and they have brought back their 
 traditional hack-and-slash custom. But this time, theyve added one hell of a lot more features. 
 Overview: The story takes place in a futuristic London, England. In 2018, a horde of demons and 
 monsters emerged from various Hellrifts and the Hell Portal in London, rampaging through the city, 
 and eventually leaving the world a desolate inferno of scorched bodies and burning wastelands. 
 The survivors of the demonic invasion were forced underground into small settlements where they 
 quietly wage war against the hellish horde. Classes: In the game, there are six classes; Blademaster, 
 Guardian, Marksman, Engineer, Summoner and Evoker. The Blademaster and Guardian are the basic melee 
 classes the Blademaster focuses on his weapons, and to kill the enemy before it can hurt him, and 
 the Guardians are the tanks of the game, relying on shielding spells, and auras to protect himself 
 against hostile mobs. Ive tried both Blademaster and Guardian, and theyre both extremely well 
 balanced classes, although I personally like the Guardian best. The Marksman and Engineer are the 
 classes using all the heavy guns in Hellgate: London. The Marksman (my favourite) can either run 
 into a group of mobs, guns flaring, throwing grenades and napalm strikes in every direction, or 
 else quietly pick them off one by one from a distance, using the Sniper Stance skill to vastly 
 improve range and damage. While the Marksman mainly uses machine guns and snipers, the Engineer 
 is diversely well equipped with a range of weapons, from explosive pistols, to summonable flying 
 turrets, the engineer is all about blowing things up. The last two classes are two I actually know 
 very little about; the Summoner and Evoker. As in other fantasy games, think of the Summoner as 
 the traditional warlock, summoning demons and beasts to do the players bidding. The Evoker is 
 the average mage, using powerful spells, to cause damage to huge groups of mobs, the Evoker, though 
 fragile, guarantees his success by vanquishing all mobs before the player can get hurt.
  
  First Person Shooter: One of the most successful, and pleasing facts that differentiates Hellgate: 
 London from other Hack and Slash games is the First Person Shooter and aiming side of the game. 
 Most will remember from Diablo how to attack a monster; the player is forced to repeatedly click 
 on the mob. But by incorporating First Person Shooter to the game, instead of repeatedly clicking, 
 the character must in fact aim with the mouse. In addition, Flagship Studios has nicely shaped 
 this feature in with the abilities. At the start of the game, youll notice that your characters 
 aim is well, it just sucks. But as you advance in level, you can add points to Accuracy, which 
 improves the chance that your character actually shoots where you are aiming. Also, it is incredibly 
 easy to switch from first person, to third person view by a simple scroll of the mouse wheel. Ive 
 read a few articles that discuss how little skill it takes to play Mmorpgs, compared to first person 
 shooters, however, Flagship Studios has done a good job creating an mmo and first person shooter 
 mix. Maps: For those that like a changing map, such as in Diablo, the levels dynamically change 
 whenever you enter an instance (and all the fight zones are instances) . Every time to go to a certain 
 zone, the map (viewable by pressing tab) is always random. Also, throughout the game, there are 
 well-known landmarks, through the beta, Ive already fought through several landmarks, including 
 the British Museum. I wouldnt mind however if Flagship Studios could create more diverse terrains. 
 Graphics: The graphics for Hellgate: London are amazing, I have a decent computer, and this game 
 works great. For those with the next-generation computers, Hellgate is completely compatible with 
 DX10. Theres lots of destructible environments such as crates, wooden structures, and explosives 
 canisters. Sound: The music for Hellgate is amazing, helping the player actually feel like the 
 game is Hell on Earth. The sound is well integrated with the spectacular game play. You can vastly 
 improve your strategic skills for using the sound to tell the most opportune moments to defend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan_Gaston
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game packs an obscene amount of addictive gameplay, due to its randomization. Everything is 
 randomly generated except the stations, which are a sort of safe house for players to go AFK, trade, 
 chat it up, use npcs, gather quests, etc. The areas outside the stations are the hostile areas 
 which are all instanced. This means that whoever is in your party will enter the area with you, 
 and you don't have to deal with other random people charging in and killing everything and/or you. 
 It's true that the core gameplay mechanics are rediculously simple. However its simplicity makes 
 for a game that is easy to dive into. Most of the time you'll either be clicking away or holding 
 down the button spraying lead left and right to slaughter the hordes of darkness. This is not to 
 say that the gameplay doesn't get any more complex however. As you modify your weapons and armor 
 along with higher level skills, the game gets much more involved. Such as; Hey there's a boss! 
 Let's chuck a phase grenade at him, mark him with beacon, light him on fire and unload a ****load 
 of rounds into him at point blank range with rapid fire! I find that fun :) Moving on...
  
  The story is not entirely original however it is very relevant and has enough substance to keep 
 most entertained.
  
  The graphics are good enough (not like you can compare them to Crysis) , especially for a game of 
 this type, and they're not bad enough to make me want to cry.
  
  The quests are repetitive, but thankfully the randomization system keeps it fresh.
  
  The sound 
 could be better to say the least, but it's not so rediculously poor that I would have to shut down 
 all the sound effects and blast my own music instead. The music usually does its job, however it 
 jumps in fairly randomly, or so it seems. One time I cleared an area out (without dramatic or upbeat 
 music) and then when I was going back through the area to collect and break down my loot, well 
 the music finally decided to jump in which made my loot collecting very exciting............. yeah
 
  
  anyway...
  
  The customization system of the game is by far the most in depth feature of the game. By customization 
 i am not talking about character appearance, of which is bland and pointless seeing as how you're 
 going to cover it all up with armor anyway, but the weapon and armor customization. You can toss 
 different batteries, fuel, ammunition, relics, and techs into existing slots in your weapons, all 
 of which have different effects. The effectiveness of these upgrades vary depending on how unique 
 your mod is; common, rare, legendary. You can also throw the weapon into an augmenter for additional 
 modifications, however these are random to a degree. In the augmenter you can add, for a fee, a 
 common, rare, or legendary mod which is randomly generated. These mods (on both hard mods and the 
 random mods) can range from +x% damage (physical, elemental of various sorts, a certain type of 
 monster such as demons, beasts, or spectrals... an x% chance for various effects to occur (shrapnel, 
 electrical discharges, poisonous area, etc etc.) . This is by far the most developed part of the 
 game.
  
  Also, as a subscriber you get flashier equipment, pvp, have the ability to create a guild, and 
 some other things. Overall the game is worth looking into if you're looking for a good hack 'n 
 slash / shoot 'em up... but if you're looking for a top notch, hardcore, breathtaking FPS i highly 
 recommend you steer clear of the game since it does not function to the degree of, or feel like, 
 a FPS by any means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Review: Hellgate: London is an Action RPG FPS adventure game with three classes, the Templar, Hunters 
 and Cabalist they all branch off into two other classes with different skills and tactics. The 
 Templar have The Blademaster whitch is pretty much a strong warrior with healing abilitys and auras 
 that make him stronger or heal him. The other is The Blademaster whitch is a rogue on steroids, 
 they dual-wield swords and have some sword projectile attacks. The Hunters have the Marksman and 
 the Engineer. The Marksman plays like a typical FPS with some cool abilitys like phase grenades 
 and rapid fire mode. The Engineer is my favorite class, at level 5 you get a standard robot with 
 a laser and over time you upgrade certain things on it like guns, swords, and armor. The Cabalists 
 have the Evoker and Summoner. The Evoker is like a mage but with guns, he can cast spells and shoot 
 demons at the same time. The Summoner is also a fun class you can summon creatures to do your bidding 
 and cast some of the evoker spells as well. The game itself is really fun and has this feeling 
 that you want to play for a few more minutes to try and get some phat loots from the legendary 
 monster or maybe you found a hidden cave, the game is very varied with alot of monster types and 
 weapons. There are only a few weapon types but they branch off into hundreds of other creative 
 weapons. The game may seem a bit easy at first but it gets alot harder (even on normal difficulty!) 
 more and more enemys come at you at once and they are harder so stock on healing packs! There are 
 a few difficultys, Hardcore is where you have one life when you die, you die for good! Then there 
 is another (forgot the name because I havent unlocked it yet) but it makes the game alot harder 
 and you can combine it with Hardcore for the ultimate challange! The graphics are very nice in 
 Direct X 9 and Direct X 10. The physics are a little weak I have to admit tho there not terrible 
 just not very good. If you have a older weaker computer as long as it is DX9.0C compatible you 
 can run it, providing you have enough ram, the game isnt very cpu intensive from what i've played. 
 The music is meh, the sound effects are pretty well done too along with the voice acting. There 
 is a single player game in here but why play that when there is a multiplayer thats just as good 
 with all the same stuff and actual people playing. Get some redbull, go to gamestop and buy this 
 game, you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanhaines
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Got it, and started playing. The game looks really really bad, like more dated than games made 
 2-3 years ago. The environments are recycled, the enemies are way too easy, and you have infinite 
 ammo for your guns, so hold down on that trigger button, kiddies, while you circle strafe and hold 
 down on that S key. It looked really good, but sadly, it failed. The dialog is boring, the characters 
 are really boring and ugly. As a past reviewer said, it looked like an earthquake struck, which 
 I find to be very true. The only reason it looks like something from hell invaded is the random 
 ground fissures that bulge out of the asphalt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSheep
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This game has issues with bot pathfinding, severe UI issues, nasty bugs, repetitive levels, and 
 punishing gameplay. It's also kind of short.
  
  The game has a somewhat serious tone, but lacks the kind of story that draws you in. As I was playing 
 through I felt myself skipping past much of the story simply because it wasn't engaging at all. 
 I tried for the first 6 hours or so of gameplay, but at a certain point it just kind of irritated 
 me. This doesn't have the nice story line that D2 had.
  
  Secondly there are nasty, character gimping bugs in the game. These should have been fixed by release, 
 but haven't been. E. g. when the engineer class gives weapons and armor to its drone, if you log 
 out it looses them when it shouldn't be.
  
  Also the base weapons in this game aren't really balanced. Certain weapons are just miles better 
 than everything else out there which basically means everyone is waiting for the same thing.
  
  Speaking of which, equipment in this game comes at you very quickly -- mostly it's crap, but 
 the UI for upgrading weapons is really bad. If the weapon is on your or your minion then you have 
 to open up your inventory (or your bots inventory which can be difficult to figure out) transfer 
 the weapon from your character doll, to your inventory, open up the machine, move the components 
 from your inventory to the machine, click upgrade, move the components back into place (if they're 
 in the wrong place) , then move the weapon back.
  
  This should be: open up the machine, drag your weapon to the machine, click upgrade. Done.
  
 
  There's no reason you shouldn't be able to upgrade from your character directory. There's no reason 
 you should have to move the additional components from your inventory to the machine. It was just 
 poorly thought out.
  
  And lastly, and probably the most important part is that the game looks the same throughout really. 
 It's quite annoying. There are about 5 tilesets in the first half of the game. You basically run 
 from zone to zone looking at the same areas over and over and that just kills flavor for me. It's 
 quite a disappointment from the dozens of art styles in D2 or WoW.
  
  Really this feels like a game that was pushed out too soon. Flagship Studios would have done better 
 to follow their old companies creed. We'll ship when we're done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm pumped, I have to say that I was worried about the game when I was in Beta, but I am happy 
 to report that the game is very different than the lame shell of the game offered in beta. Also, 
 it does not even compare to the demo. The demo sucked. The final game is polished, much more seamless 
 and serious and they have improved on the random level generator and the Act feel of the game. 
 All the good stuff is still there and even better forms of it. They did nore than just tweak the 
 final build. It is very different. If you had reservations about buind this game as I did, know 
 that I am very happy that I went out and got the final realease and will be playing for some time 
 to come. This game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: please_send_me
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Hellgate London is just doomed... DOOMED! Ungh, the graphics, the controls, the atmosphere, the 
 music, it's all horrible! But what can you expected from Blizzard North? (In case you don't know, 
 Flagship is made up of those from Blizzard North when it disbanded. The rest went to GuildWars 
 and Arena Net. If this is the crap they were cranking for Diablo 3, I'm glad it disbanded)
  THIS is supposed to be a next-gen game?
  I'll stick with last-gen then and get better framerates.
 
  - It was easy... really easy... I think a monster hit me once. - The gameplay was repetitive - 
 I did not feel like I was in a scary environment at all - It looked like an earthquake occurred, 
 not hell breaking loose - - the voice acting was AWFUL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Some background:
  I have been playing this game for some time in beta and there were times that I had my doubts. 
 The infuriating crashes, bugs, and that damn memory leak really made me wonder what they were doing.
 
  
  However!
  
  The game is a blast and the retail build the beta testers never got to see is even better. Graphical 
 and performance advances in the build really make this game rock. You are going to see a LOT of 
 low reviews for this game from people that have done no more than play the demo; do not judge this 
 game on the demo... the demo is CRAP. The demo is the equivilent of Diablo 2 to the Den of Evil... 
 easy and slow! The game really ramps-up towards the end of Act 1.
  
  For difficulty I chose "just right". The game does start out easy, but as we all remember; so did 
 D1 and D2. Thats what nightmare and Hell were for. The difficulty increases steadily as you advance 
 through the acts.
  
  Graphics: please remember that this is a game that uses a random generation map engine. You WILL 
 NOT get the same level of graphics from this system as something that is hand crafted. You gain 
 the broad replayability of random environments, but you have to sacrifice with some more generic 
 textures. If you take that into consideration you will realize that they did an outstanding job. 
 That is no simple task.
  
  Gameplay: ROCKS! This is especially fun online with friends and if you choose classes that support 
 each other. This is the HIGHLIGHT of the game! Do not play the garbage demo of this game and make 
 a decision. Find a friend that has it and play to at least level 8-10. THEN judge the game. Writing 
 this game off because of the demo is just going to make you miss an outstanding experience. It 
 will be your loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-bldes
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Need I say much about Hellgate? Hellgate brings you a clash of 2 genres and leaves you wanting 
 nothing. The fighting system for this game is great. Unlike traditional MMORPGS that basically 
 have you select one target, or have an AOE (Area Of Effect) that damages a whole area, Flagship 
 studios brings you a well drawn together FPS-style combat system that delivers. Mixed with 3rd 
 person and 1st person views (depending on what class/weapons you use) , allows you to attack enemies 
 in swarms or one at a time smoothly and beautifully. The biggest concern with most gamers including 
 myself is the replay value. The fighting system is what keeps the game together along with a great 
 storyline. The story takes place in 2038, where a post apocalyptic London filled with horrific 
 creatures from Hell. You travel underground to different stations (Safe Areas, usually) where you 
 help out people attempting to bring London back to what it was, or rid the London of it's terrors. 
 They offer you 3 factions in Hellgate; Templar, which is the warrior class splitting into offensive 
 and defensive counterparts, Cabalist, students of the dark bordering the lines of good and evil, 
 possessing powerful Arcane abilities practicing the arts of summoning and powerful offensive abilities, 
 and lastly, the Hunter which focuses on being deadly Marksmen, or becoming great engineers who 
 create Hell Drones to do their dirty work. Each class presents a unique playing style which lets 
 players solo and play in groups well. Being that you can solo the entire game, ( at this point, 
 giving you roughly 40 hours for single player) you also reap rewards from playing in groups as 
 well with more Experience and items. The game plays like a Rougelike being a dungeon crawler with 
 twist and turns and a randomized dungeon system giving players a challenge when completing goals. 
 The game is almost all instances which helps eliminate that desperate need for finding monsters 
 to train on for hours on end as playing the game rewards you for what you did, not how long you 
 played. With a random loot system and randomized monster spawning and having each monster with 
 a diffrent AI and abilities, you'll be given lots to do either searching for treasure, or completing 
 missions and taking on bosses eliminating that need to find something to do . One of the coolest 
 things is the random monster spawning. Monsters randomly spawn with either Rare or Legendary attached 
 to them giving them special powers and abilities that differ from their normal versions. They also 
 offer Pvp latter's and regular updates which include and are not limited too new monsters, items, 
 classes, quest and skills every few months or so. Being that I was in the Beta, I know first hand 
 that this game plays well and will appeal to gamers like me. Who have been force into playing traditional 
 level grinders that force you to play for months on end to get to a goal you will never reach. 
 This game makes you want to play for months because of what you can do and how much they offer 
 in combat, skill, and Pvp events.
  
  All in all, as long as Flagship keeps their promise with updates and keep adding to the game to 
 keep it fresh and new, I say this game will turn out to be one of the greatest mmo's in it's time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrus1989
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  FSS have done well on this highly awaited title, which is a pure thrill for any diablo-fan out 
 there. Don't listen to the hating and negative comments made by angry gamers, and dont judge it 
 on it's demo, cause the full game itself has got a lot more to offer than that. Any diablo or hack 
 n' slash fans out there will love this game, since its dynamic in every aspect, and it offers some 
 addictive gameplay and lots of epic loot. A monthly fee is only required if you want some extra 
 cool stuff like more character slots, new items and much more. When you want to take a break from 
 subscribtion for a while you can deactivate your subscribtion and continue to play online, though 
 all your extra bonuses will be temporarily locked untill you subscribe again. overall a neat game, 
 and it will continue to grow in the near future. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
