-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heretic: Shadow of the Serpent Riders
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hereticshadowofthesr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: id Software
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Mar 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Heretic is priced well below most other first perspective shooters and offers loads of fun for the 
 money, especially for newbies. 

 Even the most avid computer fantasy role-player may sometimes want to take a break from strategic 
 combat and multi-character maintenance, and get back to the basics of hacking and slashing. Enter 
 Heretic: Shadow of the Serpent Riders, the quasi-sequel to id's smash hit, Heretic. In this first 
 person 3-D shooter, you assume the role of a rebel whose sole desire is to drive the evil forces 
 of the Abyss from your world. How do you achieve such a lofty goal? It's simple  you bash, 
 thrash, and burn every living (or undead) creature you encounter.  

 Heretic: Shadow of the Serpent Riders' beautiful graphics truly immerse you in a brooding fantasy 
 world. The game's numerous beastiesincluding Gargoyles, Undead Warriors, and Weredragonsare 
 detailed and show few signs of the close-combat pixellization that is the bane of typical first-person 
 adventures. The dramatic lighting effects are magnificent and add to each level's eerie ambiance. 
 This title also boasts a wonderful soundtrack which, like any good score, truly complements the 
 action. The music alone is enough to make the hairs on the back of your neck stand on end, even 
 without the added stress of running from a Disciple of D'Sparil.  

 Even with all these strong features, perhaps the best element of Heretic: Shadow of the Serpent 
 Riders is its simplicity of gameplay. It shouldn't take more than 15 minutes to learn how to competently 
 control your explorer; experienced 3-D adventure gamers will be able to throw the manual out the 
 window and jump right into the action.   

 Another goodie is the slick multi-player mode. Up to four players can link up for two different 
 types of play: cooperative, in which players help each other destroy all the enemies on a level, 
 or deathmatch, where players hunt each other with hideous weapons and destructive spells.  

 Although there are five scenarios to choose from, offering a variety of settings for players new 
 to Heretic, only two of the episodes are truly original (the other three were in the original commercial 
 version) . This is not a major shortcoming; the game is still priced well below most other first 
 perspective shooters and offers loads of fun for the money, especially for newbies.   

 Power up my Phoenix Rod, I'm on the trail of an Ophidian!    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it's again the same ****: explore labyrinths, find keys, push hidden levers and, naturally, 
 kill a lot of stuff. This is the pattern in Heretic: Shadow of the Serpent Riders (1996, id Software 
 and Raven Software) , a First-Person Shooter inspired in DOOM, but using a different theme. Instead 
 of hi-tech weapons, you use powerful staves to kill your numerous enemies. You'll feel that Raven 
 Software didn't want to stay far from the usual, especially because Heretic uses the same engine 
 as DOOM. There is literally nothing new, just a different skin to make you think you're playing 
 a medieval/fantasy game. And guess what? The original formula still works fine.
  
  Heretic: Shadow of the Serpent Riders (aka Heretic v1.3) is just like having The Ultimate DOOM. 
 Back in 1994, Raven Software released the first Heretic, which features three chapters, each one 
 with 9 levels (one been secret) . Just like the original DOOM, you can finish the whole game pretty 
 fast, even on higher difficult levels. This new Heretic version adds two episodes (or 16 new regular 
 levels and two secrets) , which are much harder than the first three. As you can see, it's pretty 
 much like The Ultimate DOOM, which has a more hardcore-focused new chapter, especially made for 
 experienced players.
  
  Aside the new maps, there is nothing new in Heretic v1.3. You play as a mage that can handle a 
 variety of magical staves, and your objective in every map is to find a magical switch or a teleport 
 that will bring you to the next level. While you try to find the end of each map, you'll fight 
 against several different monsters, from the weak gargoyle to the powerful minotaur. Each enemy 
 has a particular behavior. For instance, the stone golem is pretty dangerous at close range, but 
 isn't a threat if you stay far away from him. But take care, you may find some golems that can 
 fire at distance, as well invisible ones that may surprise you in a dark room. The gargoyle has 
 also a ranged version, while the great majority has only melee attacks. The necromancer (actually 
 a big, iron flying head) can attack with three different spells: a whirlwind, a flame wave and 
 an iron ball, very difficult to dodge. Another very common enemy is the undead warrior, which fires 
 magical axes and can also appear partially invisible sometimes (which become particularly dangerous) .
 
  
  Your weapons are quite different from each other. You start the game with a very weak crystal wand, 
 and then you upgrade to the crossbow. This weapon will be used in the entire game, and will be 
 your standard combat tool in most situations. Then you find the dragon claw, which works especially 
 well against moving targets. The last three weapons are a bit rare to find, and I'll not spoiler 
 them here. Let me just say that you'll receive an area effect staff, which must be used without 
 hesitation against powerful opponents. There are melee weapons as well, that you'll probably use 
 only at the init of each episode (this is, when you don't have enough ammunition) : a lightning 
 gauntlet and a quarterstaff. These weapons aren't completely useless; however you'll find yourself 
 using more the ranged stuff.
  
  If there is a thing that Raven Software tried to innovate, it's definitely the use of special items. 
 These artifacts are kept in your inventory, and they must be used depending on the situation. The 
 torch is a must-have item when you're exploring a dark room, otherwise you will probably be attacked 
 by an invisible golem and you'll never find where he is. The torch is also a good option if you're 
 looking for a particular switch, which is hard to spot sometimes. Another trivial artifact is the 
 Quartz Flask, used to restore 25 points of health (when you cannot find the regular healing potions) . 
 The Tome of Power is also very important, because it boosts the strength of your staves for a short 
 period of time. But, in the way I see, the most useful one is the Ring of Invulnerability, which 
 must be used when you're surrounded by lots of enemies, or when you're facing a giant minotaur. 
 All items disappear when used, but you'll find plenty of them in the levels, especially if you 
 have enough patience to search for secret passages. I also noticed, at least on the highest difficulty 
 level, that the game only allows you to carry one type of artifact when you finish a level. All 
 the extra ones are lost. This may sucks but, in truth, it's a good reason to try and spend your 
 special items, instead of just keeping them until you reach the final map.
  
  As I said before, the first three episodes are a bit easy, but I think that everyone will find 
 the boss battles interesting. To be honest, D'Sparil, the final boss of the third chapter, is one 
 of the toughest guys I ever met in a PC game. I was playing on the last difficulty setting, and 
 make no mistake, it's punishing. But it's also a very rewarding experience, because you'll get 
 a lot of enemies to kill per map (usually more than a hundred) , and you'll find yourself trying 
 several different tactics to beat the hordes of bad***es. For example, I always like to wake up 
 all the enemies in the map and then find a safe place, so I can kill one enemy after another without 
 any hurry. Another cool strategy is to find cover behind certain obstacles (actually those 2D sprites) , 
 where enemies cannot hit you, but it's possible to use the crystal wand or the dragon claw to fire 
 through the obstacle and easily beat them.
  
  The two new episodes in Heretic v1.3 were designed for hardcore players. You start the map usually 
 surrounded by a lot of monsters, and you don't have enough ammo and even the best weapons to deal 
 with them. As I said above, a bit of strategy comes handy. The run-and-gun tactic may work in the 
 easiest difficulty settings, but they aren't effective in the harder ones. Anyway, the levels aren't 
 as confusing as the ones we sometimes get while playing DOOM. I had some headaches with the fifth 
 chapter, where I had to find keys and switches in literally secret places, often a bit hard to 
 spot. But the levels in Heretic are usually very straightforward.
  
  If the single player isn't enough, you can play the campaign with another three players, or try 
 some deathmatch games against them. As you can see, Heretic v1.3 offers 45 levels for both the 
 competitive and cooperative modes, which is more than you need for your multiplayer enjoyment. 
 It may be a bit hard to make Heretic run in modern PCs, so you can always use enhanced Win32 ports 
 (such as ZDoom or Doomsday) , or you may also experience the original feel by trying a MS-DOS emulator 
 (DOSBox or VDMSound) . If you liked DOOM, you'll find Heretic: Shadow of the Serpent Riders a good 
 option to once again try something suitably old-school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Heretic: SotSR is a great game, that plays the same as doom, with some extra features added.
  It features these cool fantasy levels, monsters and weapons which makes the game original.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  +Whole game is fun to play and full with action
  +Monsters and weapons are really cool
  +Unlike Doom Items can now be used like flasks and books
 
  
  Graphics:
  +Great graphics for an already old game
  +Plays well
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice fitting music
  +/- Just ecent sounds nothing special
  
  Value:
  +Levels are fun to 
 play
  +Replayability is good
  
  Tilt:
  +Nice game with originality
  +Fantasy style mixed with action is just great
  
  Heretic is a game for the first real shooter 
 fans and if you have the money, buy it if you still can out there
  See ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linuxzith
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best games ia hav ever played in my life ive played doom3, halo, quake 1 2 3 
 4 but i dont know this game is just a classic buy it its worth it go to www. doomsdayhq. com check 
 it come part of the comunity im in world three man this game is very good i love it its very adicttive 
 cant stop playing it the  nothing like it in the 
 world medivial classic very good i dont kno0w what to say andymore i have to put 100 words thats 
 carzy heres a little story You are the only Sidhe surviver, the last memboer of an ancient race 
 of heretical elves adept in arcane sorcery. Three Serpent Riders, gurdians of death everlasting, 
 came as fortold by the prophecy of Armageddon. This trio of demons travel from world to world to 
 spread chaos and despair. They subjgated the worlds seven great leaders by trickery and guile. 
 When the seven great nations had been subverted, they were left to fight amonst themselves. DSparil, 
 the youngest and the weakest of the Serpent Riders, was left behind to act as puppeteer. Now you 
 search for DSparil for vengeance. Or die trying.
  
  Raven Software licenced the Doom Engine from id Software to build Heretic. With a solid foundation, 
 Raven Software added an inventory system (so you can carry items around and use them when you please) , 
 and new actions (fly, look up and down, water currents) . The visuals are also better than Doom: 
 jump into water and it splashes, kill a Gargole and its corpse blasts (instead of simply drops 
 down) .
  
  Like Doom, you lose all your weapons and inventory items each time you switch episode. Actually, 
 each episode is like a separate game selectable from the start. When you switch levels within an 
 episode, you lose some of your inventory items. No matter how many identical items you possess, 
 you can only keep one of them after the level switch.
  
  The original game has only 3 episodes, with 9 levels (including one secret level) each. The free 
 upgrade included 2 more levels, also with 9 levels each. * The first episode starts from The Docks 
 where you enter the City of the Damned, the stronghold of D'Sparil on Earth. The episodes ends 
 with Hell's Maw, guarded by two Ironliches, who are the episode boss. At Hells Maw, you have wiped 
 out all his minions on Earth, but if you don't seal the portal from the other side, they would 
 keep on coming. * In episode two, you start at the other side of the portal to explore the other 
 side of Hell's Maw. Besides the monsters you have seen back on Earth, you run into new monsters 
 that are even more powerful. You could also locate better weapons and ammo on your way. Your is 
 to reach the Portals of Chaos, finish the two Maulotaurs guarding it, and seal the portal. However, 
 a distinct laughter reminds you that they are only servants of the Serpent Rider. * In episode 
 three, you found that, instead of returning home, you were transported under The Dome of D'Sparil. 
 The only way back is to face the Serpent Rider at his home. Fighting your way through even more 
 fierce monsters, you would reach the D'Sparil's Keep for the predestined battle. * After you killed 
 the Serpent Rider, the portals there take you to even farther places: the Ossuary and the Stagnant 
 Demesne. The two added episodes of course doesn't have new monsters or new weapons. So they might 
 not be as exciting to those who are less addited to Heretic. The ending level of the Ossuary is 
 guarded by 9 Ironliches. The ending level of the Stagnant Demesne is guarded by 8 Maulotaurs. Really 
 give you some bad dreams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  basically its like Doom, but it takes place around 2,000 years ago. you play as an elf who is on 
 a revenge mission to destroy the Serpent Riders who killed your family and your people. much like 
 Doom, there are 7 weapons in the game, but the weapons in Heretic are more well-designed than the 
 ones in Doom. there are also many kinds of enemies in the game, probably about 20 or 25, maybe 
 more. the game has extremely well-designed levels and to top it off, it sports beautiful graphics 
 and sound. i used to play this alot more than Doom when i was a kid because it was in many ways 
 better than Doom, although it was considered one of the Doom Clones of the 90's. if you have DOS 
 emulator or maybe even a DOS computer, I HIGHLY recommend getting this game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
