-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/heretic2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.3, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 410 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     Oct 31, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You wouldn't want to live there, but the world of Heretic II is a beautiful place to visit. 

 
 Didn't seem like a good idea when Raven Software announced it was working on Heretic II. After 
 all, Heretic, the original Doom clone, spawned the Doom engine-based sequel Hexen, which gave rise 
 to the Quake engine-based Hexen II. So when the Raven team decided to pull a fast one and create 
 a "true" sequel to the original Heretic based on the Quake II engine, it seemed like they were 
 just being cute. But it turns out Raven was dead serious, as not only is Heretic II a satisfying 
 departure from the lukewarmly received Hexen series, but it's a bold step away from the genre's 
 traditional first-person confinement. Heretic II, which plays from a behind-the-back third-person 
 perspective, still controls a lot like a first-person shooter, but it's different enough to look 
 and feel not just like a great new shooter, but like a great new kind of game. You wouldn't want 
 to live there, but the world of Heretic II is a beautiful place to visit. Sure, the game is based 
 on the Quake II engine, but you'd never guess from looking at it since it looks just that much 
 better. Gone are the claustrophobic corridors of id's shooter. Instead you get expansive, meticulously 
 detailed, and tastefully colored architecture that is amazing to behold more often than not. Even 
 those sorts of places that are traditionally ugly and drab, like swamps and dusty old temples, 
 look absolutely stunning in Heretic II, with fog and lighting effects subtly implemented to make 
 such places look both real and fantastic. All the environments look different, from room to room, 
 and especially from level to level. A host of appropriately dressed, appropriately sinister monsters 
 populate each region, and all of them look great even if some look a little puny. Best of all, 
 they die in spectacular gouts of blood and gore, and you can even dismember the humanoid ones with 
 your sword staff. The violence is accented by appropriate if somewhat subdued and nondescript sound 
 effects and a correspondingly meek and understated musical score.  

 Since the soft-spoken elf hero Corvus is in the spotlight at all times, he's made to look especially 
 detailed. He walks, runs, sneaks, sidesteps, crawls, rolls, flips, climbs, and swims much as you'd 
 expect from an elf of his stature, but he's at his most impressive when he's fighting. The mainstay 
 in Corvus' arsenal is his sword staff, which he'll power up to stunning potency over the course 
 of his quest. He has several slick moves with this weapon and can even pole-vault with it to make 
 those especially difficult jumps. The brunt of his ranged weapons are magic spells, including fire- 
 and lightning-based attacks, and worse. All of these look dazzling as they light up the screen, 
 and if anything, they're not quite as devastating in effect as they are in appearance. Corvus has 
 other tricks up his sleeve: a Hellstaff, which fires energy bolts at a furious rate; the Storm 
 Bow, whose magical red arrows create deadly thunder showers; and the Phoenix Bow, whose ammunition 
 explodes in the image of its fiery namesake. All of these can be powered up temporarily by means 
 of the Tome of Power, which makes the attacks even more spectacular to behold, and all the deadlier 
 in practice.  

 While it was a single-use power-up in previous Heretic games, the Tome is now a persistent item 
 (not to mention a character in the story) that requires defensive mana for its effects, which also 
 fuels several useful defensive spells. From the meteor shield, whose shimmering green boulders 
 wait in orbit and lash out at your enemies, to the fearsome morph ovum that turns your enemies 
 into henpecked shells of their former selves, the defensive spells are as impressive as the main 
 arsenal. Using offensive and defensive abilities in proper conjunction all while dodging enemy 
 attacks is the key to Heretic II, and although it's a similar enough feel to your typical first-person 
 shooter, it's hardly the same. Certainly the third-person perspective gives you a better sense 
 of dodging enemy attacks, but the camera, which only rarely obstructs your view, does in fact inhibit 
 some of your peripheral vision and makes it difficult to detect enemies attacking from the flanks. 
 Corvus has a lot of moves in his repertoire, and most of them are useful, but altogether he moves 
 a little sluggishly compared with your typical first-person action hero, especially while sidestepping. 
 Still, he could run circles around Lara Croft any day, and a simple, even amusing tutorial will 
 help you get acquainted with how he operates in no time.  

 Heretic II fixes most every shortcoming the series ever had, in large part by returning to the Heretic 
 formula rather than following the Hexen tradition. Although Hexen and its sequel each offered three 
 character classes to choose from, the same resources could have gone into making a single, far 
 more interesting protagonist. That's what Raven did with Heretic II, whose hero packs so much firepower 
 that you won't soon find yourself getting bored using the same old magic tricks. Better yet, the 
 levels are finely paced, with ammunition and mana in rather short supply such that you'll have 
 to be conservative with your attacks, even as new weapons, spells, and power-ups are introduced 
 with perfect timing. The levels are large, cohesive, and intuitively structured, and you even get 
 nicely acted in-game cutscenes during and between them. You can travel back and forth between certain 
 areas in a throwback to the Hexen and Quake II hub system, but much like those other games, the 
 hub system doesn't work all that well. It's just not much fun to have to backtrack, even if you 
 do face new enemies on the way back, but it is a convenient means of increasing the length of the 
 game. Searching for keys to locked doors or pushing three buttons in sequence isn't much fun either, 
 and you'll be forced to do such petty tasks occasionally, but never in excess.  

 If there's any real fault to Heretic II, it's in the name - this game is in a league above its predecessors, 
 and although it continues the original's plot and holds over many of its weapons and items, it 
 mustn't be regarded with the kind of prejudice its predecessors might evoke. Otherwise, sure, the 
 game suffers from a bug or two, level load times aren't insubstantial, the third-person perspective 
 thing isn't exactly revolutionary, and altogether the game isn't very long (although it's worth 
 replaying cooperatively) . Occasional areas in Heretic II can be frustrating either because they're 
 difficult or because they're confusing, and as a deathmatch game, it isn't as fast and furious 
 as Quake. But one look at the game, one taste of any of the weapons it places at your disposal, 
 and you'll forget all about the little things like that.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I respect a lot Raven Software and their games. I played one of the first titles released by this 
 company, known as Shadow Caster (1993) . After many others successful games, such as HeXen, HeXen 
 II and their respective expansions, I was totally convinced that Raven Software can actually bring 
 amazing fantasy and action titles. Back in 1998, they just continue to prove their aptitude for 
 this kind of game, by developing Heretic II.
  
  Even if this game is powered by id Tech 2 (Quake II engine) , it features a Third-Person view a 
 la Tomb Raider. You may find it weird because the original Heretic was a standard First-Person 
 Shooter, and this may lead to some obvious questions: "is Heretic II a faithful sequel?" or, even 
 worse, "is this just a medieval version of Tomb Raider?". Make to mistake: this game is a true 
 continuation of its predecessor and has little in common with any other game to be considered a 
 knockoff.
  
  Let's start with the boring stuff. =) As in the original Heretic, you play with an elf called Corvus. 
 This sequel continues the story pretty well, when Corvus had just won a difficult struggle against 
 D'Sparil. Then the hero returns to his homeland, just to discover that things had changed drastically 
 since his last visit. Corvus finds out that his people became victim of an unknown plague, which 
 leads the infected to instant death or makes each individual inexplicably violent. In a quest to 
 find a cure, Corvus become infected by the disease as well and must fight his way through a variety 
 of places in order to save his people and himself.
  
  Your character will travel between some really nice areas, such as swamps, mountains and dungeons. 
 They all look amazing, and things become even better if you have a Direct3D or OpenGL compatible 
 video card. Everything is beautiful in Heretic II: textures, fog, water, objects etc. My only complain 
 are most of the characters models, which looks very thin and sometimes bizarre. 
  
  The game runs smoothly, but I found strange that it's limited to 30 FPS. It doesn't seem to cause 
 any negative impact on the gameplay, except to the controls that have an annoying delay when you 
 issue simple movement commands, such as a sidestep or a sprinting jump. It isn't that hard to get 
 used with the controls, but you'll find that it's better to just stand still while firing against 
 your enemies, instead of trying to dodge meanwhile. The autoaim system helps a lot, and with some 
 manual editing in the camera options, you'll ease most of your problems in no time.
  
  Sounds in Heretic II are perfectly fine, although I had to turn the CD music off because of the 
 constant CD-ROM access, which slows down the game a bit. Here I missed an option such as the one 
 in HeXen II, which allows you to hear the midi version of the game's soundtrack. Nonetheless, the 
 sound effects are great and the voice acting is convincing, and that's particularly good because 
 there're some cool cutscenes with dialogues between the main character and someone else.
  
  Corvus is a real master of arms. He can wield a powerful blade that allows him to not only effectively 
 gib his opponents, but also jump great distances (which may be extremely necessary in some occasions) . 
 This melee weapon can be upgraded throughout the game, and it will become the most deadly weapon 
 in your arsenal later on. The hero will also find a staff that casts fire orbs, which is a nice 
 way to take down groups of weak enemies. But it's the bow that really shines in Heretic II: the 
 ranged weapon can fire either storm arrows or powerful explosive projectiles, both very useful 
 against almost any kind of opponent.
  
  Those weapons alone aren't enough to beat the hordes of monsters you'll face in this game. This 
 is where the spells take the scene. Corvus will learn two types of magic: offensive and defensive. 
 The offensive spells are used to direct damage and will consume green mana. On the other hand, 
 defensive magic will grant a variety of effects, which are all helpful depending on the situation. 
 The earlier offensive spells will become obsolete as you find the powerful ones, and there isn't 
 any reason, for example, to waste your mana casting a Fireball or a Thunder Blast when you have 
 already the Sphere of Annihilation. Thankfully the same rule isn't applied to the defensive spells, 
 since most of them are useful. The Tome of Power will increase the strength of your attacks; the 
 Ring of Repulsion is great to push your opponents back while you hack them with your blade; the 
 Meteor Swarm can hit even the most difficult targets without any trouble; and the list goes on.
 
  
  The shrines are a nice addition to this game. These magical monuments can recover health or mana, 
 grant armor protection, cast a continuous light for a period of time etc. They're all quite useful 
 and must be used wisely before or after a combat. For example, you don't need to use a mana shrine 
 if you don't need to recover your reserve. Instead, it's a good idea to spend it all in the next 
 room and then come back to the shrine to recharge.
  
  So it's true that you have a lot of options while you're combating your enemies, but that doesn't 
 make the game easier. It's not wise to use the massive Sphere of Annihilation against a rat, for 
 example. You will prefer to cast a Flame Wall and take down all the little rodents at the same 
 time. The storm arrow isn't a good choice against moving targets, since its effect is best used 
 against static enemies. As you can notice, Heretic II requires some thinking, especially if you 
 aren't playing in the easiest difficulty setting. The bosses also do their job quite well, although 
 they're much like any other monster in the game... they're just bigger and stronger. You don't 
 have to plan ahead a strategy to beat them; you just fire and avoid their attacks until it's over.
 
  
  Much more annoying than the enemies is to find the correct door or switch to proceed. Naturally, 
 that's only a problem when you're in a dungeon, since the open areas are pretty straightforward. 
 I noticed some problems when I was trying to trigger a lever, when I kept pressing the button but 
 nothing seemed to work. I wasted a lot of time searching for everything in the room, and then I 
 decided to check a walkthrough (normally I don't do this) , to just learn that I was doing the right 
 thing! I indeed had to push the lever, but because of a bug I couldn't do it. I tried every possible 
 angle, and then it magically worked for no apparent reason! I also noticed some other bugs, such 
 as an instagib non-existent trap and a particular place that makes your character stuck forever. 
 However these problems are quite rare and can be avoided, just remember to quick save regularly.
 
  
  This game lasts a bit more than any other regular action title, although you'll feel that it ends 
 sooner than you would probably want. This may happen if you decide to take a look at the world 
 map; there're a lot of different places, but Corvus will never visit them during the game. They're 
 just in there to ornament the map, that's all. Still Heretic II delivers a lengthy single player 
 that's enough to make you enjoy the adventure.
  
  Heretic II comes with a good multiplayer support. It features deathmatch and cooperative modes, 
 which work flawlessly and greatly increases the value of this game. No matter if you like competitive 
 or cooperative matches, you'll have fun while playing with your friends. As you can see, Raven 
 Software succeeded to bring an amazing medieval fantasy game, and I recommend Heretic II for every 
 action fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaikJonas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game even over the years. It has many interesting twists and long campaigns. The 
 main character, Corvus, is on the quest through mysterious land, where he meets interesting individuals 
 and enemies. He fights his way through dungeons, ruins of city and temples, along the roads and 
 rivers. The game is very logical and linear. The equipment is outstanding and fighting ability 
 astonishing. Graphics in Heretic are still appealing even with present technology and demand on 
 the picture quality. There are interesting moments, such as meteor shower or fire arrow that creates 
 nice effects. Corvus's voice is nice, and fit the character persona. Overall, users can find themselves 
 trapped with bugs and errors, which could be solved in God's mode. Nonetheless, it is still one 
 the best classic PC game of the 90's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  The first time I ran it there were a few snags. The videos didn't play at all or played incredibly 
 slow, and the game looked bland and didn't seem to have much flare or pep. It also didn't run in 
 full screen mode. Double checking the README I found the parameters needed to use the OpenGL aspect 
 of things and fire up the Voodoo2's waiting to be harnessed. Now we were rocking. Full screen, 
 awesome color, seamless movement and amazing 3D graphics. *tips his hat to 3DFX*
  
  One of the most important aspects of a 3D game is the player physics. It has to pull you in and 
 make you feel like you are in the game. When you hit that button to jump, your mind expects something... and 
 if the game doesn't deliver, the effect is lost and you're off playing Quake or Half Life. Heretic 
 2 delivers. Coming from the Quake world, a third person perspective can be a bit strange. The only 
 game I've ever played (and liked) that had the same feel was Tomb Raider 2. Let's just say I have 
 a new favorite.
  
  The physics in Heretic 2 are very good. My only complaint concerns the strafing movement. It's 
 a bit jerky, and from a third person view you can see the player struggling to go both forward 
 and sideways. But aside from that, player movement is incredible. You can execute amazing moves 
 like a rolling tumble, a sideways jump and a back flip. Moves that would make for some great post 
 deathmatch stories in multiplayer.
  
  For the most part, the monster AI was pretty weak. I didn't meet a single monster I couldn't kill 
 with just a few balls of fire or swipes with my blue magic scythe thingy. (sorry don't know what 
 it's called :) But that's ok since there is a multiplayer aspect to the game and killing or outsmarting 
 a real person is always better than a bot.
  
  The story line also left a bit to be desired. I found myself oftentimes not knowing where I should 
 be going or what I was supposed to be looking for... I just wandered around until a door opened 
 or I found a key, killing monsters as I went and admiring the visuals.
  
  But what visuals. It's hard to believe that this is the same engine used for Quake2. The color 
 was much better, the animations were better, it felt more real. As I wandered through towns and 
 dungeons I noticed the lifelike flame, the billowing tapestries. Pretty sweet.
  
  So what do you get to play with in this game? A ton of spells, magic staffs, incredible bow and 
 arrow combos and a blue scythe thingy :) Overall some cool weapons. The only thing it's missing 
 is a deadly precision weapon for multiplayer (at least I didn't see one) . Call me old fashioned 
 but I'll take a railgun anyday.
  
  I'm a major fan of the D&amp; D flavor games and this one fills the void well. Add to that great 
 physics, great visuals and multiplayer support and you've got a great game.
  
  You can also go here for some killer screenshots of the game in action! Overall, this game has 
 great potential. It looks good and feels good and that's what's important. Why would you want to 
 play it? Well, it won't replace Q3 for multiplayer but it would be great if you wanted to be immersed 
 in the whole mythical and magical environment. It has a single player mode which is great for just 
 running around and solving puzzles or playing with spells and things of old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  I played this one when it was new and though its been years now, I still remember that it left 
 me with a good impression. The game was fun with good gameplay, cool environments and something 
 different in the way of weapons. The story is pretty lame as it typical of older shooters but who 
 cares? It's a fun little romp and if you see it on ebay and enjoy revisiting older FPS titles, 
 this one's a buy.
  
  I just downloaded the demo myself, just to see a little of it again for the nostalgia of playing 
 a game I really enjoyed way back when.
  
  The graphics are quake II era and that's about as far back as I'd want to go today myself but games 
 of that time period and up all look pretty good I think compared to thier predecessors, even if 
 nowhere near the quality of today's newest games. Anyway, the gameplay here is good and I'd recommend 
 you play the demo just for fun if this interests you. It's a small download and if you really like 
 it as I did you may just want to spring for it on ebay where I doubt you'd pay more than 10 bucks, 
 shipping included, for a new sealed copy of it.
  
  As for the multiplayer, somehow I doubt you'd have any luck finding people still playing this but 
 if you did, that would be pretty good fun I'd say.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardummy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Heretic 2 was an eyecatcher when i saw this game. i had previously played Herectic and i find it 
 very interesting even though the graphics were a mess. The weapons were my favorite part when comming 
 to kill anything at sight. There were many variety of weapons like the staff, bow, and spell books. 
 i still haven't beat the game ever since i got it (3 years ago..) . Has anyone beaten or heard of 
 this old game? Maybe someday i will find time to wipe out the dust on the cover and finally beat 
 that game....."Text Reviews Must Have 100 Words".... grrr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: focult
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2004 7:31 pm PT
Review:  single player was pretty good, It was really fun to co-op through. I really liked how it went third 
 person, and looking back on it was a great prototype for ravens later jedi-knight games.
  
  I still think that its sword staff was a much more balanced and fun weapon than the later light-saber 
 battles in jedi knight. I know that is heresy to some, but thats my opinion.
  
  The one thing that really makes it shine in my eyes is blade only deathmatch. It ranks as one of 
 my most favorite games of all time for deathmatch!
  
  thats really all i hvae to say about it... it was a blast. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
