-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heritage of Kings: The Settlers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thesettlersv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bright, vibrant graphics and solid voice acting.
 Complex medieval economy is fun to build the first few times.
 Game has some charming moments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lackadaisical pace means you'll spend hours on each mission.
 The AI isn't too bright.
 Repetitive level design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.1, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 957 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Blue Byte
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Feb 24, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A glacial pace serves to undermine this otherwise colorful and charming real-time strategy game. 
 

  Heritage of Kings: The Settlers marks the return of the 11-year-old Settlers franchise. This fifth 
 game in the series comes after a four-year hiatus, and on the surface, much has changed. The cutesy 
 2D graphics of the original games have given way to a beautiful and more mature 3D look. However, 
 at its core, Heritage of Kings stays true to its predecessors, as this is a real-time strategy 
 game that's focused far more on the process of constructing buildings rather than tearing them 
 down. And that makes for the game's greatest strength, as well as its biggest weakness.  

          It takes a really big village to succeed at Heritage of Kings.     

  The campaign in 
 Heritage of Kings tells the story of your character, Dario, as he attempts to unify the land and 
 reclaim his rightly throne. As the lost prince of this story, it's his job to prove to the people 
 that he's a good steward by defeating the forces of the evil and restoring the land. In addition 
 to the various spearmen, swordsmen, archers, and cavalry that he can recruit, Dario is accompanied 
 by various hero units, each with his or her own special powers and abilities. This all falls fairly 
 well into the familiar real-time-strategy formula.  

  Where Heritage of Kings differs from most RTS games is in its focus. In most RTS games, you usually 
 start a level with a fair bit of building and end it with a lot of combat. But in Heritage of Kings, 
 the ratio is more like 90 percent building and 10 percent combat. This keeps in line with the earlier 
 Settlers games, as the series has always been more about medieval city building than Command &amp; 
 Conquer. As such, your goal is to build a sprawling, interdependent web of buildings, where workers 
 and peasants go about their daily lives. It's a very charming and engaging formula, at first. However, 
 the further you get into the game, the more you realize that you're not so much playing Heritage 
 of Kings than you are simply sitting around waiting to gather the mountain of resources you need 
 to build up the same huge, interconnected web of buildings over and over again.  

  It starts with the fact that there are five resources you must gather in immense quantities: wood, 
 clay, stone, iron, and sulfur. Aside from wood, the fastest way to gather them is to build mines 
 atop rich deposits. But for every mine you build, you'll need to construct housing and a farm to 
 shelter and feed the miners, lest they become unhappy. This sets up the pattern for the rest of 
 the economy, so for every building you construct, odds are you'll need to construct another two 
 buildings to support it. And considering the amount of resources it takes to put up a single building, 
 it takes a considerable amount of time just to put the underlying foundation of your economy in 
 place. The bad news is that it gets worse.  

  You'll also need to augment your mines by constructing smithies, brick makers, stone carvers, and 
 alchemists, all of whom take raw material and refine it further. For example, a blacksmith can 
 take a single piece of iron and multiply it several times over by turning it into steel. And, yes, 
 each of these buildings needs to be supported by a farm and housing. Meanwhile, most buildings 
 can be upgraded (some several times over) , which you'll need to do to unlock new buildings, technologies, 
 or capabilities. These upgrades require considerable amounts of resources, as well as research 
 into new technologies. The end result is that you'll spend hours building up a single town. It's 
 no exaggeration to say that the latter levels can easily take four hours or more to complete, and 
 since they're all basically a repeat of what you've done a dozen times before, the novelty of the 
 experience has worn out long before then.  

  Meanwhile, the combat in Heritage of Kings feels very much like an afterthought compared to the 
 depth and detail packed into the town-building aspects of the game. It just comes off as very clumsy. 
 For example, when armies clash, all the units run around randomly, like a school of fish in a feeding 
 frenzy; there's little rhyme or reason to it. To succeed, you'll want to have the best available 
 troops, which means waiting around to gather enough resources to research the tech tree while also 
 waiting to gather even more resources to actually produce the units. If you don't, then you'll 
 discover that your lower-quality troops die alarmingly fast on the battlefield. You can augment 
 your armies with your heroes, which you'll often need to do. In fact, it's the heroes that do most 
 of the heavy lifting; your troops mainly serve as cannon fodder to buy enough time for your heroes 
 to do what they need to do. The enemy artificial intelligence is practically nonexistent. Its main 
 tactic is to build up waves of units and throw them at you over and over again. But even then, 
 it's not much of a factor, as few scenarios are set up where the AI is in a position to attack 
 you constantly. Multiplayer doesn't help much in this regard, because two of the game modes, deathmatch 
 and technology race, play out as slowly as the single-player game. The one bright spot is the points 
 mode, which limits each match to an hour. In that mode, it's not about crushing your opponent but 
 more about getting the most points.  

          Combat is a chaotic mess, but not in a good way.     

  The pity is that Heritage of 
 Kings is such a pretty game. The 3D engine, powered by RenderWare, is bright and colorful and provides 
 for a lot of detail. It's fun to watch your miners chisel out the side of a mountain for stone 
 or use the weather machine to change the seasons. The game also has some beautiful, tapestry-like 
 cutscenes that are reminiscent of the gilded illuminations found in medieval books. On the audio 
 front, the game has some solid voice acting, which comes across when you hear your peasants comment 
 on your reign or when the narrator announces that it's tax day in a soothing voice.  

  For all its charm though, Heritage of Kings would be a fairly enjoyable and likable game if not 
 for its glacial pace. This is a huge game, but not in a good way. There simply just isn't enough 
 action or variety to keep your attention, and the complex economic structure feels just a tad bit 
 too complex for its own good. The game may appeal to you if you like slower-paced RTS fare, but 
 even then, you're going to need a lot of patience while you plod your way through this one.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  I have to admit having played all sorts of different statergy games i was a bit fed up playing 
 the same old build up and destroy the enemy type games.
  
  Thats where settlers seems to be different. It doesn't really emphasize on warfare and focuses 
 more on the stability of the town that you build up. Its not a bad game and ill keep you interested 
 for a long time.
  
  As you play along one of the more annoying features that you find is that in almost every new level 
 you need to build up your town from scratch which ensures that you play the level for a considerable 
 time. The AI and Graphics are good enough to keep you entertained but don't expect any out of the 
 world visuals or challenging game play by the AI.
  
  Overall allthough i give this game a 8/10 its one of those games that you would want to play if 
 you dont have anything else to play at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafiqians
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  If you like strategy games where you are the man who have responsibility of doing everything and 
 tell everyone what to build, where to fight you, what to do in miserable conditions then you like 
 this game. I haven't played other Settler games so I can't tell what is the difference between 
 them. The major part of this game is to build and minor part is to fight. This game is set in middle 
 ages where we have not enough technology but we have cannons as mass destruction weapon. This game 
 is based on fantasy, where you command 6 heroes of different specialities, they all are immortal 
 and they can kill enemy very quickly which makes game easy. This game have great graphics, gameplay, 
 sound, three dimentional view like modern games. You like it if you are lover of strategic games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  if you like stratagy games where you are the boss and tell everyone what to build then this is 
 the game for you. the game is basically like sim city but with wars, no cheats, and set in times 
 where they didnt have technology like we have today. this game is the latest from the settler trilogy. 
 in the game you command 6 heroes and you can build over 70 buildings and you gain more building 
 the more missions you do. this game is a must own if you have playe any of the other settlers games. 
 you do not need to have any of the other games installed but your computer must meet the specification 
 otherwise it will not work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riku478
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  nedhyufewvb whhbwdyu ubwdu hjdqbh dhwqbhd nyud jun jnd wdn hjn hd yhudwdyuwh uwh h hudshu ujfeuhfu 
 udnw ujwd udjiqw djuwdhn iudqdiu duwdqu duwwqdi udwi huw nhus gvbwy eefhby efhfweyb yheygfe hfeb 
 ehy yeujfwn heyf eygh neby nbdt dn fgb efvfvfn fhbfh vd gfdegfrdnvfgtd dcnbdgvbdcn g jwsaj nbvh 
 cjnebshd snedbygxbshn dshged vcbfdgvhed ednsxbdcvdbcdc bdcvgdcb nd hbdbcgfc bndc gcdvgsc cdbdbcvsdg 
 dcbnc bdcvbddbc gs c sgvsghcdvc cbvshccsh cgcdvchdc gdcscsghccshg dshbvbgsd hcdjhcsb b jhc hdbhdcbhdc 
 jdb dbbdj odsjeiw mdw ehjeiodmnwfi jed ,efje jdhfeijwn dejnfeim eijojdekopedkj bdnodeiednjdehufen 
 gf ujdufdjdehdgbue dhwjemjhfyb jdifjejeifhfen ekfcywhfte fueghfuhf ejhffj jfnhefijfeokwhefijf feimfofkifeu 
 fjjfkolfk ufyufeijef b fchicken jfnujwergvf cnfebdhfbwejhfnewyuhrend wdgwebb wvfedbhnrf hfegbdbfr 
 dedhfedrf bdbfehjdnfn fyhjdcnfdcyhfrndc f dcyfdhcnb fdcbfbd hfdgfrhdfrb hdehgdenhfdb jdfenfjd euhfenhn 
 jdhreyjn jfeue uufehgyefwb dehfyhuchyufc duuhdcbhyud dcbdchjlscfn yaya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  The settlers, if it would be aplied as a TBS (turn based strategy) Game it would be better, but 
 a RTS game must have some SPEED. The Graphics aren't too bad, even the music is fine but the gameplay 
 is not simple at all, and the buildings and ways things work are just too complicated. Let's consider 
 you might get used with it (Even though this might never happen...........) , can you get used with 
 NO SPEED TOO? I seriously doubt it!
  
  Let's Compare this game with.... ugh.... Age of Mythology for exapmle. Both have nice campains, both 
 make you built civilizations, at this point settlers might be even better, but AOM is just too 
 easy to play. And it's more fun! Even though settlers have nice units, story, buildings and so 
 on it is not as fun as AOM, wanna know the reason? CAUSE it is really really slow! But don't get 
 influenced, I am a speedfreak really. If you can be comfortable with some lack of Speed, well yhis 
 might be a game you can like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xid32
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok... It won't last you long. And it's just very boring.
  
  The ups: Good graphics, soldiers run everywhere during battle, cannon blasts and explosions can 
 make it chaotic and very fun to watch. You can recruit soldiers for platoons to make it a bigger 
 platton to send into battle. Reasonable price. 
  
  The downs: Though.... You cant have much platoons due to population limit. Constant resource gathering, 
 must build and build and build it gets boring. The population limit is very low, it should be higher. 
 No skirmish, only quest map. 
  
  Summary: It's a game that will be fun, but it wont last you too long, but with the price backing 
 it up, It can be worth 15 dollars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus8303
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  When you hear Settlers you think of funny people doing various jobs to build up a working economy 
 and later an army to conquer the neighbouring funny people doing the same thing. In heritage of 
 kings what you get is another hero pased RTS where you collect resources creating soldiers and 
 building an army to crash you foes. Not bad as an idea but it's not a settlers game. Moreover:
 
  1) Squad based units like in rise of nations... What is that for??
  2) a very simple economy where you just colect resources like in any other RTS there is not any 
 productiojn chain anywhere. Economy management was the most favourite part of the settlers series.
 
  3) Heroes (I refered to this one again but it is really awful)
  4) Restricted building placement
  5) No more than one (!) tribe! I cannoty believe that a RTS 
 like that has been created!!!
  6) Infinite campaign (which could be good but not when you are doing the same thing over and over 
 again
  
  As a conclusion the creators of Heritage of kings created just another common RTS without adding 
 something new to the kind. I hope that the next game of the series will stick to the points that 
 made us all love the settlers series. And I really thank God that they are releasing Settlers II 
 10th which seems to be a classic settlers game refined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xuxer
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  Nice game. Good graphics. At the first few stages new technologies are available. But by the middle 
 of the game all technologies would all be unlocked which at the end you will feel the game turning 
 quite repetitive.
  
  Good thing which keeps you going are the mini-missions which will be found during respective levels 
 of the game.
  Not such an easy game, quite long and hard to go through.
  
  Another thing which keeps the game quite intricate is the introduction of heroes within the game 
 which give quite a certain edge to the game. Each hero comes with a unique set of special skills.
 
  
  Expect attacks from the enemy at any time, so prepare your defences as quickly as possible. On 
 the whole I can say that it is a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  WOW this game is good. i have the very first settlers game, and this game is still great after 
 all these years haha having finally finished it the story is pretty good. the end mission is hard 
 but not too hard. 
  
  only problems i ever found with it besides the pathfinding is the fact Ubi soft has a euro only 
 expantion out that lets you play online. and not many people play it online. 
  
  but for a time waster its pretty good. graphics are good and overall its just a great game
  
 
  was truely worth the money spent to buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingjosefa
Rating: 3
Date: May 4, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  when i first picked up this game i thought i would be another fun real time stratagy game at first 
 it was with its trampleing horsemen sqwad sistem and difernt gameplay but the longer i played the 
 more i realised that the campain had such long misons that i grew a beard by the time the first 
 one was done. i mean i like most long mison games but they have to have a good amount of stuf in 
 it you spend days on one objective. i thout the skirmish would be better but it had lots of boring 
 work no pauseing and one race. some might like this game at first but a week later its a nother 
 erased file. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  What does this game has to do with The Settlers? Nothing... Everything that defined The Settlers 
 was thrown out and replaced by something taken out of AoE... Even though I'm not much of a fan 
 of AoE, this is one of the worse AoE clones I've ever seen
  
  What defines The Settlers? IMHO this defines The Settlers:
  - Resources are visible in the game, 
 not just some number telling you what you have in store
  - All resources are carried from point A to point B, whenever it's needed
  - All buildings needs 
 wood and stone and nothing more (with a few exceptions)
  - Graphics are not realistic
  - The AI is not scripted, but actually makes decisions on it's own
  - There's no heroes
  - 
 There are multiple nations
  - You make the choice on where to build your buildings
  - etc etc etc
  
  All the above has been in all previous Settlers games (except for the multiple 
 nations, as it wasn't possible in the first Settlers game in the Amiga days) ... none of this is 
 in this new "settlers" game
  Had they used a different name for the game, I wouldn't hate it that much... it's a real shame 
 it cashes in because of name recognition... of course since the game itself isn't worth playing, 
 there's not really anything else to "sell on" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhamen
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Settlers games are good to play when you just need to relax but don't want to be bored while relaxing. 
 I have enjoyed playing the games from Settlers 2 gold to this latest Settler V - Heritage of Kings. 
 Up to settlers IV, which I really enjoyed and still play. The way you played the game was much 
 the same and it was different to all the other strategy games and really enjoyable because of it. 
 
  However I feel this last addition (Settlers V) , seems to be trying to be more like a warcraft 
 style game and has lost a lot of its inocent Settlers charm. Settlers I feel is more about building 
 up grand settlement and having the settlers dancing and skipping in the streets. The military should 
 stay in their buildings and only come out and fight if there is a threat. 
  On the plus side. I do find this game much better in not having building boundaries as in the previous 
 ones which I found a bit anoying. The 3D game play enviroment is more fun and the mining is pretty 
 cool. The Hero introduction is ok but anoying having to many in the campaign mission, it makes 
 it feel like commandoes. The weather and the control of weather is ok but the seasons could change 
 a bit more smoothly. It is a good aspect that the weather changes how the people work and move. 
 That's all I feel like saying on this for now. 
  Hopefully by the next one they could instill a bit more of the tradishional settlers charm into 
 a gorgeous 3D enviroments with guard towers that send out soldiers but don't control land borders 
 but control it by an area that the soldiers can go out and attack in from the guard tower. Also 
 what about the bakeries and water collecters.
  
  That's my point of view I hope it helped.
  kind regards Rhamen Mallett. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulica
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I played this game some time ago and at that time I thougt it to be a great one . I liked very 
 much the story line and the characters ( you are able to command several heroes - each with his 
 special abilities ) . The graphics were good and the sound satisfactory. It is the one of the games 
 which can come close ( but not that too much ) to the best game ever , namely Spellforce Order 
 of down. But I wouldn't recommend someone to play it after Spellforce , best of all , play this 
 one and than go to the masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  I found this game at walmart. The price was unlisted, but ended up costing me $20 (plus 9% tax) . 
 The back of the box made the game sound very interesting, but I could tell from the characters 
 that it seemed to be an Arthurian Mythology knockoff. The game graphics were rather detailed and 
 I enjoyed being able to zoom in and out to view battles/buildings, but unfortunately the game itself 
 did not offer a turtorial as to what to do. I found myself pulling on other real time strategy 
 games from my past as a reference. The game seemed to be pulling from Lords of the Ream III and 
 a skimmed down Age of Mythology version of its heroes. The game takes forever to gather resources 
 and constantly involves building for your economy. The game pays extreme attention to economical 
 needs and that can get very annoying. From my game play I've spent most of the time building the 
 same houses and farms and waiting for resources. After doing that for an hour or so you tend to 
 lose interest in the game. The Heritage of Kings has nice visuals and a nice summary on the back 
 of the box, but it is lacking everywhere else. Unfortunately I would not recommend this game to 
 anyone... unless I hated them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkomen3148
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the previous Settlers games, but if they are any closer to this game i'm 
 glad I didn't.
  
  This game has some moments, but it is a very long and boring game. There is no feeling to it; I 
 went through the whole game and never felt like I understood my characters or shared their problems.
 
  
  The storyline, AI, and gameplay in general is very gray and repetitive. I'll give them some credit 
 for the decent graphics and sounds.
  
  I wouldn't recommend this to anyone unless they were really curious or looking for something a 
 little different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fisheagle
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  A nice story and good graphics. The 3D engine really performs. The story lacks punch though and 
 the AI is sometimes a little unfair, having high tech equipment before you have even got into your 
 stride. The animation and detail is brilliant. Shades of Microsoft Empire series. Beautiful scenery 
 and weather control that makes all the difference. But, as others have said, somewhat slow. Not 
 having the ability to set way points makes it awkward at times and the ability to produce workers 
 or military units and set them to a point on their completion would help the game progress a little 
 faster. Having to wait at the source of production, Barracks or Keep etc and then move them to 
 your assembly point really slows it down. Generally, I have enjoyed playing it and look forward 
 to the next upgrade/series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masokid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, but could easily be a great game. For starters the graphics are very good 
 as are the stories. However, the absence of cheat codes and a tutorial make it hard to start playing 
 and makes for a frustrating start.
  Once into the game though, it gets better and better. Real time strategy is always fun and challenging, 
 but not for everyone which is why it might get some negative reviews. I do believe they are the 
 very vocal minority though.
  Overall, I gave it a 7 because of it's lack of tutorials and cheat codes as well as not having 
 the ability to set the game difficlulty.
  
  Cheers.
  
  Maso 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gackt_2305
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  first time i play it i feel like we are living in 1998
  DOS paltform will be happy to plat this game
  the graphic is terible (please, the game look like 
 5 years behind)
  we cannot build anything and you name it strategy? i wonder what is the defenition of strategy. 
 and i found quite annoying bugs.
  
  well even to write a comment is hard things to do.
  
  the good things
  1. it run on windows
  2. it colour
  3. it make sounds
  4. it need 
 mouse to play
  
  this game have its own genre, and genre is vepogy (very poor strategy)
  this will close my revew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zalle69
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:19 am PT
Review:  Though I dont normally like RTS games I do like this one. The graphics and game play for this 
 game are very good. The learning curve is good nothing too difficult to master, you could easily 
 start play without reading the manual, but I would still recommend that you do. In my playing so 
 far the only thing I really disliked is the difference in speed of you warriors and siege weapons 
 your warriors will easily out pace the siege engines if you dont watch them. If you like RTS this 
 would be a good game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solah-dax
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 8, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Settlers was my favourite strategy game of all times. Settlers is one of those games that stay 
 in your chip of memories. 
  When Heritage of Kings was released, I run to the store like a little kid. To my disappointment, 
 the newer version did not offer much variation in terms of objectives, nor research. In fact I 
 think researching in the first Settlers version was much more appealing and complex.
  
  The game-play in Heritage of Kings is simply obsolete and completely out-of-date. 
  
  I miss 
 the wide variety of production methods available in the previous games. The predecessor was original, 
 varied and diverse.
  
  I gave Heritage of Kings a hard try, but could not play it for more than 3 hours : (
  
  I can 
 see why people are disappointed and I quite agree with other reviews posted. 
  
  Dax.-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 14, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into any detail, I have to admit that I have played the Settlers II and III a bit 
 in the past. 
  
  It was a while since they produced a folow up of the Settlers series but there we go now and Heritage 
 of Kings is the latest one. 
  
  As a Settlers fan, I was excited in the beginning to play it, since I was expecting big differences 
 and new features added from the previous versions. In summary, I felt been totally let down though.
 
  
  The only things that differ are a bit the improvement of graphics and the AI improvement of your 
 army and settlers. In comparison to the previous versions, any order you give to your 'pawn' seems 
 to executed flawsly, thing that was a nightmare in previous versions. Furthermore, there are far 
 more new buildings and levels to upgrade and make the gameplay a bit more interesting.
  
  However, those new features seem nothing compared to the problems or lack of features in this game. 
 The main issue is the lack of the enemy AI, which leaves you no challenge to play the game. It 
 seemed that after getting all the necessary resources the enemy simply awaits to be thrashed from 
 your forces and heroes. At least in the previous versions you had much more unexpected attacks 
 and in great enemy numbers as well.
  
  Story wise, the game was not appealing at all. The story is very repetitive and focuses around 
 only a couple of towns and objects. I felt the story writer should apologise for his absence of 
 invention. Even the maps seemed the same throughout the game. 
  
  I have to admit that I really tried to like this game. I actually went half way through the campaign, 
 but at the end I felt that I was simply wasting my time. I cannot recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokletu
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 8, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I don't think the reviewer was much of a fan of the series, or of the genre (management is more 
 fitting than the new rts classification that the newest game attempted)
  
  Most fans of the series HATE the dumbing-down that's been done to the game. The review altogether 
 failed to mention the removal of the transportation logistics of those mined/harvested materials, 
 from buildings that were constructed from said carried materials, which tied the cities together. 
 Those carriers now simply work in their mine\shop, the value of your stockpiles somehow MAGICALLY 
 increase.
  It is understandable that not everyone cares about the micromanagement aspects of the economy in 
 a game like Command & Conquer, but that was the very IDENTITY of this series that they removed.
 
  It wouldn't have been so bad, I guess, if they did give some depth to the combat instead, but 
 the gamespot guy hit that area right on the head.
  The graphics are pretty 'n' all, but WHY go 3d if you still can't look up at the horizon, to sillouette 
 the objects that you went to the trouble of modelling/coding that way? 2d was already top-down. 
 That cutesy style, also blanded out to make like every other game, but dumber, was one of the endearing 
 aspects of the series. 
  I almost dropped my jaw when I read the opinion of the voice acting. It makes you want to turn 
 your speakers off. Imagine Barney as your mayor.
  
  Get Cultures: Northland. It's not 3d yet, but it has the most depth of any game I'm aware of, and 
 retains that cutesy charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 8, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  If you took Castles II: Siege and Conquest, any of the Warcraft series, a dash of Heroes of Might 
 and Magic, and then a big old load of Civilization, you'd have Heritage of Kings: The Settlers. 
 On the surface that all sounds like a fine mixture that's well suited to the Real Time Strategy 
 genre, but it will leave you unsatisfied. What is wrong with any of the games mentioned above, 
 that an amalgam needed to be made? When you can have a uniquely satisfying experience that EXCELLS 
 in it's little niche, it's hard to sell HoK: TS. 
  
  You will spend a HUGE amount of time, building an intricately detailed "Settlement", and watch 
 as the life within works to your advantage. It's a great looking game, although the sound is nothing 
 special, and you'd think this would seal the deal. However, once you've amassed all of the resources 
 you need (which in this game, is like saying "once you've finished your IRS audit) and all the 
 structures have been built, you turn to fight the enemy AI, which as gamespot said, is shockingly 
 absent. At this point, I started to crave the fast paced combat of Warcraft, the "Age Of" games, 
 or compared to HoK, even civilation. I ALSO started to want the outsized power and roving army 
 style of Heroes of Might and Magic, or the stately pace of something like Spaceward Ho. 
  
  The bottom line however, is that I no longer wanted to play HoK. You could play the whole game 
 through and not feel you'd been subjected to something awful, but you'd wonder why you didn't save 
 the money, and play your old, GOOD games instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer_1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  First off I have played just about every RTS out there so I have some backing. I may not be an 
 expert but I know my stuff.
  
  1. NO EDITOR!! That should be standard issue for EVERY RTS game. I love making my own maps and 
 campains in games. Thats half the fun!
  
  2. NO A. I.!! I play a custom map in the single player mode and NOTHING HAPPENS!! I take over the 
 whole map without a shot being fired in anger. Its like the other CPU players are not even there. 
 They don't register on the diplomacy menu either. They just sit there. Boring.
  
  3. ONLY 1 FACTION!! Their is as I pointed out only one faction, a human faction that is the game 
 default and only race! No robots, no elves, no monsters nothing! One, thats it.
  
  4. NO OPTIONS!! Not in the options menu I'm taking about in the skirmish mode. You have no options 
 what so ever. No difficulty levels no amount of players period, no start location nothing. Its 
 real bad.
  
  I just hope that a patch or a free downloadable expantion pack is in the works very soon. If they 
 fix these problems they will have a great game on there hands. If not its bargain bin time.
  
  This was writin on FEB 24 
  
  Thank you for your time
  
  P. S.
  Best RTS ever made 
 is STARCRAFT period. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
