-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightandmagic3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  1, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.7, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 3,711 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Developer: New World Comp.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 28, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spending even a short time with the game quells any doubt that it's anything but an excellent sequel 
 and a first-rate strategy game in its own right. 

 Your typical game developer specializes at a particular genre, leaving New World Computing as an 
 uncommon exception that excels on not one but two fronts. Best known for its long running Might 
 and Magic role-playing series, New World has since created the offshoot Heroes of Might and Magic 
 turn-based strategy series, which has nearly eclipsed its role-playing progenitor with the sheer 
 amount of critical and popular acclaim it's earned. It's no coincidence - the Heroes formula is 
 one of the most brilliant strategy game designs ever conceived, with its careful blend of micro- 
 and macromanagement within a distinctive fantasy setting.  

 And so, the big question with Heroes of Might and Magic III is whether the formula is good enough 
 to hold up three games in a row. After all, while Heroes III overhauls the appearance and otherwise 
 expands upon its predecessors, its gameplay remains fundamentally similar. Nevertheless, spending 
 even a short time with the game quells any doubt that it's anything but an excellent sequel and 
 a first-rate strategy game in its own right. But you'll notice its new look before everything else. 

 The first two games were especially notable for their colorful storybook-style graphics, which lent 
 either one a quirky sense of humor in spite of the epic subject. You'd witness hundreds of peasants 
 being slaughtered by, for instance, a pack of minotaurs. But because both the peasants and the 
 minotaurs looked silly, and because their numbers were graphically abstracted onscreen with just 
 a single unit representing the army, it was difficult to take the combat too seriously.  

 Even though it plays about the same, a veteran of the first two Heroes games will initially suspect 
 that Heroes of Might and Magic III is a departure from the series because of its face-lift. Specifically, 
 it tries to look a little more serious. Many of the units seem more dangerous than before, and 
 at first, the look can put you off. The 3D-rendered units seem to lack some of the charm and character 
 of the previous games, in part because the higher resolution graphics mean all the creatures appear 
 smaller onscreen than before. Still, further inspection reveals that the old flame still burns 
 - just take a look at the new units like the devils (complete with scythes, ram horns, and sideburns) 
 or the behemoths (lots of hair, teeth, and claws) and you'll see that the series still retains 
 its trademark sense of humor.  

 While not all of the monsters in Heroes III look interesting, most of its graphics are beautiful, 
 especially for a genre that typically neglects its appearance for the sake of gameplay. Heroes 
 of Might and Magic III sounds even more impressive, with incredible and well-suited orchestral 
 themes for each castle, although the operatic vocals from Heroes II are conspicuously absent.  
 

 The turn-based gameplay has you recruiting mercenary heroes, whom you then guide about an overhead 
 map jam-packed with resources, treasure, magical artifacts, mysterious landmarks, monsters, and 
 more. Using the resources your heroes acquire, you augment your towns so that they can produce 
 more powerful units, or still more resources. Meanwhile your heroes gain experience, skills, and 
 spells, and you put them in command of the largest armies that you can afford in an ultimate effort 
 to defeat the enemy mercenaries looking to conquer you first. As your heroes earn experience through 
 combat and exploration, you'll want to utilize some for castle sieges, while others will make far 
 better scouts or magic users. All the while, you need to balance resources between recruiting new 
 troops and heroes, and building new facilities in your castles.  

 Half the game is spent exploring and building, and the other half is spent in battle. The overhead 
 map switches to a side view when you engage in combat, at which point you must command your various 
 creatures against their enemies, taking turns moving unit stacks one by one depending on their 
 speed. You can have up to seven types of creatures serving under a hero (as opposed to five in 
 the previous games) , with seven unique creatures available in each of the eight castles. Every 
 creature can also be upgraded, making it more powerful yet more expensive to recruit. Each castle 
 is meticulously balanced, and although the units roughly correlate between castles, most of them 
 are unique. In fact, many of the creatures (both old and new) now have special abilities; archangels 
 can resurrect their fallen comrades, unicorns create a defensive anti-magic aura, and cavaliers 
 deal more damage if they charge their target. Combat plays out simply, but a great deal of complexity 
 lies beneath the surface, as your hero's attributes and spells tend to sway the course of a battle. 

 The single player game spans six campaigns detailing the war to claim the kingdom of Erathia from 
 the perspective of good, evil, and mercenary leaders alike. The story isn't played up too much, 
 but the campaign missions themselves are well designed and appear deceptively small. In fact, many 
 contain subterranean caverns as well as the usual overworld territory, often demanding hundreds 
 of turns across many hours of play. And if you can finish the campaigns, you still have dozens 
 of single player maps to try, with the promise of many more to come thanks to the map editor included 
 with the game. Meanwhile, Heroes III is a much better multiplayer game than its predecessors, as 
 you can scroll around the map and review your forces when it's not your turn.  

 Heroes of Might and Magic III doesn't alter the formula set forth by its ancestors, but represents 
 a refinement and improvement on caliber with the finest sequels ever released. The promise of much 
 more of everything - heroes, castles, creatures, artifacts, skills, spells - is gracefully accomplished 
 so as to accentuate the game's complexity, style, and strategy without making it feel excessive. 
 Much like its predecessors, Heroes of Might and Magic III successfully combines a number of elements 
 that are enjoyable and accessible on their own, but when combined and weighed as a whole, they 
 add up to a game that's both entertaining and rewarding.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shru-Bracken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic 3 is a game that truly shines in every way.
  Basically, it's a turn based strategy game. You can build armies in your town and then join them 
 up with a hero.
  Your hero has to complete certain objectives to beat the level.
  On the map, your hero "icon" will encounter creatures, and when you run into one it enters the 
 combat scene, where your units are represented by a single creature of that type per "stack", with 
 a little number representing how many is in the stack.
  You can split your armies up into different stacks, if you want to.
  
  I think of it as though 
 it's a game of cards. You have a stack of spades; but you can only see the one on the top. However, 
 you have labelled the stack to show how many is in it. If you want to, you could cut the stack 
 so you have 2 stacks with half the cards in each. Well, that's the general idea, anyway.
  
  Enough of the cards metaphor. 
  So, different units can move different distances on the battlefield, 
 and attack enemy creatures, dealing different amounts of damage depending on the quality of the 
 unit.
  If you win the fight, you gain experience and your hero may level up.
  Your hero will learn spells and skills for usage in combat or on the main map with each level.
 
  You can upgrade your town to produce better units, spells, and income. You run around the map 
 collecting goodies of all kinds, and generally attacking creatures, taking relics, and capturing 
 enemy castles and heroes.
  
  It's that standard formula, yes, but it's the way it's executed that really matters.
  The 2d 
 graphics are fantastic. Not the  kind of fantastic. They're 
 fantastic in a different way.
  The creatures look great, and they move how you would expect them to -
  From the shuffling limp 
 of the Zombie to the rigid stomp of the Iron Golem.
  The towns are all breathtakingly beautiful.
  The barbaric Stronghold is my favourite  you can 
 see canyons and arid, rocky plains stretching out in the background.
  The Tower also holds some amazing views  frosty mountains that rival Everest, and some really 
 high towers, as the name suggests!
  
  The sounds in this game are pretty good. You hear a pleasant ding that changes pitch every time 
 you collect some resources or open a chest on the map, which I thought was a nice touch.
  The battle music fits nicely, but what I like best is the music that plays when you're in a town.
 
  It's different for each town, of course. And it suits the faction you're playing PERFECTLY.
  It really helps to set the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Game-play-wise, all the factions are 
 balanced, and are each a blast to play.
  You get a real thrill when you conquer an enemy town.
  It's all got a very polished feel, and 
 I've not encountered any bugs whatsoever.
  
  Overall, it's very hard to find a single fault with HOMM3. It's a superb strategy game, with immersive 
 graphics and rock solid game-play mechanics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glen456
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 9:39 am PT
Review:  I spent much time playing this game, more than I played any other game, and I often feel nostalgia 
 about how good was Heroes III... To me, all these new 3D role-playing game are crappy. Heroes III 
 was absolutely perfect for me, very immersive, captivating. I recommand it for everyone who likes 
 role-playing, good heroic fantasy stories, the ones in the campaign mode are great. The graphics 
 are sweet and well done, this a never ending game, due to all the possibilities and the editor, 
 the gameplay is pretty simple too.
  Heroes III remains in my opinion the very best role-playing game, a lot better than the new one, 
 Heroes V wich is a decent game but if you played Heroes III you can't enjoy it. Buy Heroes III, 
 you'll not be disapointed, but be careful, it can pretty fast become addictive ! ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malango23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  I played every mission of this game (including all add-ons) . It's one of the most addictive games 
 I've ever played.
  
  It's just nice to play. because it's all turn based you never have to panic, you can just leave 
 it there and go and make a drink and not worry. I like the challange of this game it well suited 
 to all levels of skill.
  The graphic are good even today. they're simple but pleasing, there's nothing better that watching 
 your encampment grow as you buy new buildings. The music is brilliant too, very relaxing and the 
 battle music is well suited to the battle scenes.
  I've spent hundreds of hours on this game. and i loved every minute. In a way you could say it's 
 just a massive version of chess, it's very strategic but not too brain taxing (and not boring like 
 chess can be heh) . You move your player exploring the world whilst building up your castle. having 
 fights along the way fining chests and items completing quests. I like the level up system too, 
 simple and easy to use but plenty there to keep you interested. 
  
  It's also great to play with friends. Especially when allied together. and you only need one computer 
 and one copy of the game as you take turns. But you can also play online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: milosbeli
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  wow i remember playing this game like 4-5 years ago. i was so addicted to it i played it like 24/7:) and 
 of course at 
  some point had to stop playing it either because or heros of might and magic 4 or because some 
 other stuff. but when i was going through torrent for some games i saw heros of might and magic 
 3! i was like must get it, so i can play it again. and so i did. what to say about this game lol. started 
 playing it and stopped after like 10 hours. this game is so addictive. you can compare the new games 
 with heros of might and magic and youll see that hero is better game then most of the new ones. graphic 
 is fine for that time and for the genre of the game. story line is fantastic as well is the game 
 play. characters very well done. campaign is awesome. maybe a bit hard for a noob but when you play 
 it over and over you will want to play it on hardest difficulty with no cheats. many more can be 
 said about this game but ill recommend you to buy this game and see for your self, because you 
 really wont regret! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The best strategy on Mother Earth, as I said.
  It is a great turn-based strategy, which is played with heroes and castles.
  You have a Castle, 
 you get a hero (buy or on another way, let's say release him from a prison) , and you have only one 
 rule: conquer all castles and defeat all heroes (with exceptions in some maps or campaigns) .
  The game is so good that I know many people who bought $1000+ PC, and they play only this game!
 
  It is highly addictive! I've played Heroes of Might and Magic more than 12 years now, from the 
 HOMM1, HOMM2, until today!
  
  This game is a legend! If you never played it, you'll never know what's a real strategy, and what's 
 a real game!
  
  The game can vary from Very Easy to Very Hard, depends on many factors. So the average is Just 
 Right.
  
  I spent 100+ hrs as you can see.
  
  MASTERPIECE!!!! NO WORDS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongkingkong
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  A rare gem. Taking 32Mb of RAM and doing more with this space than any game has done since. Period.
 
  I must admit I am an impatient sod when it comes even to RTS games, and a turn based strategy 
 like Heroes III seems like a match made in hell for me. But this games does not play out like "Civilisation" 
 or many other turn-based uber-nerdery. How well it works together can not be given justice by describing 
 merely what you do, but heres how it goes:
  You start off in a normal scenario with one town, in this town you build buildings that enhance 
 the profit of resources, build units and fortify your walls. The process does not take very long 
 but requires genuine thought and a bit of knowledge of the units. The competition comes in as you 
 hire "Heroes" that carry your units from town to town to enemy town, picking up artifacts, levelling 
 your hero up and battling with enemy heroes at home, away and on the field.
  A concept that doesn't sound very origional? Well its the execution of the gameplay that gives 
 HoMM3 its killer punch. After 2 hours you will not be a seasoned vet but you will be hooked in 
 such a way that every town loaction is like a home from home. I know it sounds rather lame but 
 the design is so natural you can breeze through seemingly complex settings with ease and get the 
 boring bits out of the way (to be fair these bits become the best and most rewarding after a while) 
 so you can get to some combat!
  Combat is pretty much like chess on acid with cyclopses, knights, undead, egyptian mummies, skeletons, 
 ancient greek myths, giants, daemons, angels and dragons and a bit of magic for the RPG elements 
 that accompany each hero. You move your units into hexagonal positions on the screen as does you 
 opponent, positioning is important but more so id the size and quality of your army, if you invest 
 well early your opponent is bound to have a weaker army if you are clever enough.
  It all comes down to whits, unlike your typical shooter which is fun in itself but intelligence 
 seems to have missed the train. I was lucky enough in childhood to play this in real life company 
 on the same screen, and from then on in I couldn't get enough of the game, that is the way it is 
 meant to be played, in company or against a real opponent. But in all honesty is still a perfect 
 10 against the cracking AI.
  If you get into this (which you certainly will do if you invest 3 or $5 in the game you'll find 
 on ebay always or a lot of decent game stores, best purchase of my life!!!!) you'll have a job 
 of initially convincing a mate or family member that this game is worth a pop. From the outset, 
 a nerd 90s game with dragons, inside: a gem, a masterpiece, a Van Gough yet to be remembered by 
 humanity. Universally speaking, this game appeals to men, and i won't draw a line in the sand but 
 as a young lad this became like cocaine and still is. The wonderful thing about gaming is that 
 there are some games that stand the test of time, this game on its own regardless of the sub-par 
 sequels and preceeding installment, would last me until I loose the game and forget about it. Which 
 is never i'll always keep it close even if my future partner thinks its lame :D
  I don't give perfect scores ever but this game deserves it, its the one game out of all i'd recomend 
 you will thank me if you play it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of the Might and Magic 3 is amazing. This game deserves a 10 no mather what. I belive that 
 if you are looking for a stratetic game that is fun and will last for months look no further than 
 the HOMM series.
  
  This is a strategy game like no other, In this game its all about making an army (about 8 different 
 castles to choose from) .
  Make your creatures strong, fight in epic battles and take over everything from mines, magic temples, other 
 castler and even gold pits. You also are able to have different skills, magic on your heroes that 
 never gets old, why not a fireball, armageddon or a glassic ice bolt. Its never boring with the posibilities 
 of getting artifacts finding new monsters and new stuff.
  
  No map is like another. You also can create your own maps which is fantastic in this sort of a game. The 
 storyline feels good and exciting, alot of missions with different stuff to do.
  
  If you are a strategy game fan you do not wanna miss one of the best games ever made. Heroes of 
 the might and magic 3 really feels amazing!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  What can I say about a game everyone said anyhting that could be said?
  
  This game is plainly brilliant. It's my favouite game of all time! ( well... maybe along with sensible 
 soccer 95/96 for Amiga 500) .
  
  In modern times we have many great titles. We have such a graphical acomplishments as Oblivion, Far 
 Cry, Crysis, Call of Duty 4. We also have games such as : World in Conflict, Civilization series. All 
 of those games have great graphics, great gameplay ( maybe except Oblivion ) . Those games are inventions 
 of the first century. All of these games are fabulous. And on the other side we have this late 90's 
 game called : Heroes of Might&Magic III and although this game was created almost 20 years before 
 the above mentioned titans it is ( and you can quote me on that ) by far the best of all of them! 
 
  
  It just never gets old. It was brilliant at the beginning and it's still brilliant now. With this 
 game is like with inventing a bulb or a cell phone. It will always be remembered.
  Such a beautiful and colorful world with so many places to visit, with so many enemy to fight. So 
 many possibilities, so many unique strategies regarding one battle, ability to create new artifacts 
 through joining different of pieces together....
  
  I have the whole trilogy ( with Shadow of Death and Armageddon's Blade ) and one of the main reasons 
 this game is and will be immortal is the random map generator. If you finish all of the campaigns 
 and all of the single scenarios, you can emerge in to fully randomised world so everytime you're 
 playing it you discover something completely new. Maybe this generator lacks the accuracy and distinction 
 of the man made maps but it still offers plenty of sleepless nights.
  
  This game never gets boring, never gets repetitive. It's the only game you can start playing over, over, over 
 again.
  
  Every true player knows this game and probably everyone has played it at least once so i won't 
 describe what exactly this game is about. Do I have to?
  I don't think so. It would be like describing and reviewing the looks of a car. It's just so obvious.
 
  
  I love this game and won't compare it to any other. It's unique in it's own style. Games like these 
 happen every once in 100 years. If I could I would build a temple to honor it and it's creators.
 
  
  Nothing more to add. It's just absolutely perfect!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic 3 / PC / Turn-based Strategy / 8.9
  
  HoMaM 3 is probably one of the best turn-based strategy game I've ever played (along with advance 
 wars) . What you do in this game is quite simple, but yet it can get so in-depth: You conquer castles 
 from where you can buy 7 levels of creatures and a special hero to put them in. Then you go out 
 to explore the map, kill other heroes and guards in order to get new resources and artifacts to 
 get your hero stronger and afford new troops/building in your castles. The objectives can be different. 
 Sometimes you're just supposed to kill all opponents, and sometimes you have to dig up a treasure 
 or kill a certain army.
  
  What makes this game so fantastic is how well balanced and customizable it is. Just play a map 
 or make one yourself, choose among the 7 castles, and have a go. 
  
  Building stuff is very satisfying in the beginning. And annihilating everything at the end is also 
 a joy.
  
  HoMaM has a great story (3 different if you get the complete edition) in the campaign and it makes 
 the game more living. The campaign itself is hard but it'll teach you some good lessons.
  The biggest deal with this game is the hot-seat multiplayer it features. It's really fun to play 
 against/along another human being.
  
  The graphics are acceptable and the sound is great but you'll get tired of it. For instance the 
 battle interlude will be very frustrating to listen to all the time when you're on a killing spree 
 (I think you know what I mean) .
  
  The game has two expansions that adds different stuff to the map, minor balancing, new campaigns 
 and a new castle - "conflux". I recommend getting the compilation of the original HoMaM 3 and it's 
 two expansions (Shadow of Death and Armageddons Blade) .
  
  As with all other turn-based games, this gets tiresome after long sessions but after a year you'll 
 be picking it up again to enjoy it. Now that's what I call value.
  
  Any PC gamer should try this out. And if you do - make sure to get the complete edition with all 
 expansions included. It's a great deal.
  
  Real Score: 8.9
  
  
  
  And let's not forget the catchy cheat codes that is taken from the movie we all love so much ;) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noldorin2646
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the very first game review that I have ever done, and I expect it to be a bit inadequate 
 compared to other reviews. However, it is fitting that this first review is also one of my favorite 
 games back when I was still in the fourth grade.
  
  I first picked up Heroes of Might and Magic III without having played any other game set in the 
 Might and Magic universe, nor did I really have an idea about what separated great games from the 
 average ones, but I did feel it when I stayed up till midnight for the first time, even though 
 I didn't understand it. Years later, I finally could really appreciate what Heroes III did for 
 me.
  
  So now we are done with the sentimental parts, let's get right down to it. Heroes III is a whopper 
 of a game. The single player campaign itself takes a huge amount of time to complete, and after 
 that, players could delve into the numerous single player scenarios that could take days to complete 
 just one of them. An scenario editor means that more user created content could enhance the experience. 
 Add in with some multi-player functionality such as internet and hot seat play plus five difficulty 
 levels, Heroes III is definitely one of those games that one would still play from time to time 
 for years. To top them all off, the game is a terrific turn based strategy game to boot with great 
 narrative thrown in. 
  
  The story isn't too complex since it's the old tried and true story about some hero (the queen) 
 bringing peace and justice to her fallen empire and banishes the invaders, but it is well told 
 even if the  gimmick was a bit 
 archaic. I personally enjoyed the story tremendously, but that's not guaranteed for everyone. Then 
 again, strategy games aren't RPGs or Adventure games, so as long as the plot doesn't detract from 
 the game play itself, it's all good. Nonetheless, anyone who is remotely interested in fantasy 
 literature and movies and doesn't mind strategy games should check out Heroes III because it's 
 definitely your cup of tea.
  
  The game is basically played in two stages: one is the town building stage, which you can build 
 up your castle, recruit troops and heroes, manage your resources, scout and move your heroes around 
 the big campaign map , and the other stage is the actual battles. When your hero engages the enemy, 
 the game loads into the battles and then you can command your army. Anyone familiar with the Total 
 War games should understand this mechanic. 
  
  To go into details about what kind of things players can do on the big campaign map would take 
 a long time, so let's just say, Heroes III adds t o the strategy genre numerous other elements 
 such as those of adventure games and even RPGs through hero development, as well as other game 
 play mechanics to the already robust empire management options. Everything is pretty straight forward. 
 Units, artifacts, and spells have detailed explanations and stats, so players would always understand 
 their advantages and disadvantages.
  
  The battles themselves are typical affairs. Your hero can carry troops with him, each unit type 
 takes up a slot on his roster of troops. Units are stacked, so on the army screen or the battle 
 map, you will see only one actual soldier with a number next to him, designating how many people 
 are in that group. groups are commanded and behave as one single unit to accommodate the turn based 
 combat mechanic. Thus, splitting and joining the same group of troops plays a pretty important 
 role. The combat is fairly simple, but there is great depth, and since the battles are number based, 
 people could always anticipate how a battle could turn out, making the tactics in a battle that 
 much more important.
  
  All in all, Heroes III is a terrific game with great production value, and an even greater achievement 
 based on a simple but dynamic formula. Go ahead, try it, odds are, you won't stop playing for a 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullOfRage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  this game is AWSOME, all the heros of might and magic games are good but this one is the best, 
 definatly buy this game it is way better then Heros of might and magic IV, apart from the graphics. 
 It is a very good game there is not much i need to say in this review except "BUY IT" and don't 
 look back, you won't need to look back it is that good. The only annoying things about this game 
 is that the units/creatures only upgrade once i think they should upgrade like 6 times or more, 
 if you play a big 8 player game (with about 6-7 computers) some of your opponents die in like the 
 first few turns, in some of the games you get stuck when fighting either one on one or against 
 a bunch of other enimies becuase they have you surrounded and if you move to them they another 
 guy will go past you and take your base which pisses you off greatly, lol, but other then that 
 this is a sweet game. you will definatly not regret getting this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigloni
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I actually got this game when it was brand new and no expansions were made, back then I was just 
 a kid but that only made me more addicted to this game. Graphics are beautiful and colorful, the 
 music is just perfect, level design is mostly great and there's plenty of them, towns are really 
 different from each other and well balanced (even though the "new" Conflux town is arguably the 
 best) . With the map editor the value is almost unlimited! 
  
  I've only multi-played on the same screen, so I don't know how annoying is to wait for people's 
 turns to end, if you can't see what they're doing.
  
  The one and only thing that bothers me is computer's AI in battles. It sometimes leaves it's troops 
 just to stand in lava and die and if AI heroes would use some of the best spells in the game (berserk) , 
 battles would be a lot harder.
  
  Anyway, playing this game (the Complete version of course) is always a pleasure (if I win) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlightNumber15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I had this game since i was a little kid, and this game is just plain amazing. i love the way you 
 can creat your character with loads of spells and items, and i love the armys.
  
  sure, the graphics arent as fancy, yet it is still good. The graphics of this game arent cheesy, 
 their realistic unlike the todays "ANIME" ( i dont like anime) 
  
  
  
  
  
  dont waste your time reading this 
  lol lol lol lol lol lol lol olo lolo lo lo l o lo l ol o 
 l ol ol ol o l 
  
  
  i had to write that to have 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is a throwback to the days of Masters of Magic and Master of Orion. New World computing 
 has done a great job with this series, offering addictive gameplay and great graphics. Try the 
 hard settings, they are a real biznatch.
  
  Have fun!
  
  
  As graphics get better, who cannot help but notice that the female lead in most of our video games 
 has a great ass. It all startred with Lara Croft, who was so pixelated, that mentioning it was 
 a little embarassing. Now, especially with HD, gamers of all ages can apprecitate the gratuitous 
 tang that comes with our video games nowadays. So I propose that the next evolution of video games 
 will be Video Game Porn, or VGP as I will be the first to coin this phrase. I cannot wait for the 
 corny plots and bad music.... oh wait video games already have that.
  
  Don't fear the reaper.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abcdefgabcdefgz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best turn based strategy games every made. A good game from the era before pretty 
 graphics took over. The graphics are good for its time but the game itself is whats so addicting. 
 It has depth but most importantly its just fun to play. The random map generator gives it unlimited 
 life and theres always things to do.
  There is lots of strategy to it but it never feels so competitive that the fun of the game is lost. 
 The computer and there ai is pretty good although that could be better. AI at a turn based game 
 of perfect information like this the computer should stomp people but the game is old so thats 
 excusable.
  Great classic music and good sound whatever that means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malavos
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  A GREAT game from 3do. This games is so cool. You can play for ages, and you can&acute; t get bored. 
 If you like rpg, you will like this. If you like strategy games, you gonna like this one too. I 
 loved playing this since i was with 10. (LOL) XD But, you got many races, many spells, many artifacts, 
 so many maps, a simple but greatly map editor; you do your campaing, or whatever you wanna. A simple 
 game. Nice graphics, you don't get annoyed (well, i said nice, but consider the year it was made. 
 XD)
  
  Well, if you like Strategy and rpg, this is YOUR game. 3do - Black Isle - Blizzard - Sierra rocks
 
  
  Thanks guys o/
  
  Comments plz XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musti_44
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is generally a lot of fun, and is very easy to play. Really understanding it and developing 
 your own strategy takes time though, so dont be surprised if you cannot beat 3 hard enemies the 
 first time you play. I would suggest buy Heroes of Might and Magic III: Complete now, as it is 
 still available and has become inexpensive over time. It is certainly one of the best deals around 
 for a true strategy gamer. As for the game itself, Heroes III is my all-time fave in terms of fantasy 
 turn-based gaming. It features a flawless tactical gameplay that will satisfy any level of gamer. 
 The graphics were eye-catching at the time of release and the music was fantastic too, nothing 
 grand, but still charming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  It has been many years since the release of Heroes 3, and, although there have been several renditions 
 of it, both as part of its own franchise, and by virtue of other games following a similar formula, 
 Heroes 3 is looking from the top down, at its compeditors. Only recently have I picked the game 
 back up again, with which to LAN play with my family, and I have to say that even in the year 2007 
 this game is great fun. The art style, although not very graphically powerful, is really well done. 
 The fantasy look of the units, both dark and brooding or bright and colourful, respectively, really 
 brings some life into what many might expect to be dull, given the nature of the genre. Make no 
 mistake, this game is quite involved, both in single and multiplayer expiriences, so players must 
 certainly be willing to put many hours across multiple days into playing a given game, but the 
 effort is well worth the result. The expirience is quite an intellectually challenging one, as 
 at higher levels, the AI preforms quite well (yet at lower, perhaps too slowly) but, although the 
 AI does well, waging long campaigns and wars of attrition against a few buddies is far more thrilling 
 from a sort of chess player's standpoint. The game can get a little recycled, as armies die, and 
 are rebuilt, and kingdoms switch hands only to fall weeks later. Yet, if (best case scenario) you 
 have a few buddies with a copy, and if your thing is the glorious rise and fall of empires, the 
 toe to toe against human and fantastical foe, and the intellecutal firestorm that it takes to be 
 the last lord standing, then, by all means, play, and enjoy Heroes 3.
  
  The Rundown:
  
  + Intellectually challenging and stimulating against AI, and especially friends
  +Very difficult 
 at highest settings or with friends
  +Great art style for the time
  ++ A genuine classic, with fun, imperialstic, turn based stratgey, forcing you to get into the 
 thick of things or perish.
  
  + AMAZING orchestral score that sticks with you for years
  
  - The game is old, so online dedicated servers are non-existant
  - Some balace issues between 
 units and armies (cough, Tower, cough Titan)
  -Gameplay can be slow, and a tad repeditive
  
  Final Score:
  8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redgrant15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Heroes of Might and Magic series has surely been one of the most popular and addicting collections 
 of games I have played. The best of the entire series, in my opinion, is the third installment. 
 The graphics may be less complex than future incarnations, but the simplicity allows a player to 
 enjoy the real strategic value without being lost in the visuals. The sound is rather satisfactory; 
 I personally enjoy the soundtracks mixture of slow soothing sounds and harsh, aggressive moments 
 which fit the game play well. The heroes are all very interesting people, once you get to know 
 them. Honestly, it may seem like the only difference is the picture at first, but once youve played 
 with a few different heroes and factions, you will see that each has its own specialties and weaknesses. 
 The game is generally a lot of fun, and is very easy to play. Really understanding it and developing 
 your own strategy takes time though, so dont be surprised if you cannot beat 3 hard enemies the 
 first time you play. I would suggest buy Heroes of Might and Magic III: Complete now, as it is 
 still available and has become inexpensive over time. It is certainly one of the best deals around 
 for a true strategy gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  In case you saw the budget release of Heroes III consisting of the trilogy, it's worth a buy cos 
 it'll give you hours of addictive strategy enjoyment. Since the turn-based factor is old-school, 
 it may not appeal to you if you hadn't already tried it, but to Fallout fans or strategy enthusiasts, 
 I'd highly recommend this to you.
  
  Do not think that turn-based combat is wimpy, it's actually engaging and challenging as well in 
 terms of units deployment and your hero's direction of movement. Since it's a turn-based affair, 
 much like chess, most of the time you have to estimate or even calculate your opponent's next move. 
 So, people who like chess may fancy this title or any of the Heroes series.
  
  As for the game itself, Heroes III is my all-time fave in terms of fantasy turn-based gaming. It 
 features a flawless tactical gameplay that will satisfy any level of gamer. The graphics were eye-catching 
 at the time of release and the music was fantastic too, nothing grand, but still charming.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I was totally hooked on this game for about 2 months. The gameplay is amazing the graphics for 
 its time are amazing.
  The sound is cool. The game is all about fiction and magic and it just hooks you right on.
  I 
 first played this game when i was overseas and i couldn't find it anywhere.
  But of course i was pretty young then also. Now its just a pure classic.
  A must buy for anyone 
 I dont care who you are.
  
  Whatever games you like.
  You have to get a copy of this game. Period
  
  Nothing touches it. Blows away its predecessors 
 and of course the next 2 after
  BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspirit138
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 26, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my most favourite games, due to the fact that there can be as much (or as little) 
 variety.
  
  Do almost whatever you want to with an army. Kill a few things for no reason, gather artefacts, 
 spend some money, overpower your friends, orjust lie low for a while and watch disaster strike; 
 while all the time deciding to be a mage, a warrior or a bit 'o' both.
  
  For a game this old, its graphic can strip out the oher olden games, and even strip out the FF 
 series (although FFXIIs' graphics is beyond human) . Monsters look like the most outstanding recruits 
 you'll ever see, and their movement is smooth. You can buy this game for lower than &pound;5 in 
 some places! Flipping Fantastic!
  
  Sound is a bit muffled, and music recurs consistently. However, sounds when you are close to something 
 (like a fountain) are VERY realistic.
  
  One of the problems with the graphics (what doesn't make it perfect) is the seens of the game. 
 They normally look like how Yoda looks in the fifth Star Wars (ARGH) and are really quite silly.
 
  
  The gameplay is rich, although the game is rather easy (a small suggestion (so you don't get bored 
 when you have finished a level in less than an hour) is set the difficulty varying from 130%-160% 
 (depending how good you are) . That way it's much more difficult fun!) .
  
  Just got 3 more words to say: BUY THE GAME!
  
  life is a game. PLAY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nino_carini3
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  this is a great strategic game. after 5 years playing it i am still not bored with it. i played it 
 in multiplayer mode with my brother and cousins. and we had really fun. i'll never forget such a 
 game. but the next series were not as good as the third one. but it could be much better if they 
 could bring some effects from totalwar to heroes of might &amp; magic. And the campaign game could 
 be much longer than this and have much more scenarios in it. i dont think that 3 or 4 scenarios 
 per campaign is enough. thank you. this is a great strategic game. after 5 years playing it i am still 
 not bored with it. i played it in multiplayer mode with my brother and cousins. and we had really 
 fun. i'll never forget such a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogarisu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  It's a good game , but the atttacks of the creatures are very LOL.
  The spells of tha rampart heoes are very creativa.
  My favourite team is the rempart, because 
 their tower is the best, I think... The other team are also good, but the dungeon is bad, their 
 monsters are uglie and week. The alone good is the black dragon in the dungeon's team , because 
 it's very strong. The people's angel are also good , ithink, because they can attack your monsters 
 with their thunders. The green dragon of my favouritre team is also very strong. The skeletons 
 of the skeleton tam is my favourute creature, because it's chip and strong, f you have a lot from 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Sequels, they just keep coming and coming. A lot of sequels are pretty bad, but some sequels actually 
 improve upon the original formula started by its predecessor, or in this game's case, predecessors.
 
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic III: The Restoration of Erathia's story is set some time after the Succession 
 Wars of Heroes II, and it assumes that Roland won. Queen Catherine, King Roland's wife, is concerned 
 since her father recently got his ticket punched, so she embarks on an epic quest with an army 
 behind her to make sure Erathia's fate is positive.
  
  Unlike Heroes I and II, Heroes III forces the player to play multiple short campaigns as multiple 
 nameless, faceless, Generals for most of the game's factions. All of the classic factions have 
 returned except the Sorceress, and some new ones are introduced. The gameplay is essentially the 
 same as what veterans of the series saw in the past two Heroes games, which was an excellent move 
 in my opinion; If it ain't broke, don't fix it . There are some minor improvements, but none of 
 them significant enough for me to list them all out.
  
  The new factions, combined with the old ones will provide hours of replayablity as the classic 
 single scenarios from Heroes I and II make their return. Along with these, of course, comes a map 
 editor. Unfortunately, there is no random map generator in the original version of Heroes III, 
 one wasn't added until the first expansion which was a shame.
  
  The visuals of Heroes III take on a much more serious look, which kills some of the charm in my 
 opinion. Character portraits, terrain, castles, you name it; everything is a lot darker, and more 
 realistic. This may appeal to those who thought that the cartoony appearance of the first two games 
 was a little much, but I preferred the old look.
  
  The audio is okay. The voice acting is decent, and the sound effects haven't changed much from 
 the last games. Unfortunately the music has taken a turn for the worse. Most of the music tracks 
 in Heroes III are fairly bland, and generic thus making it (in my opinion) inferior to the beautiful 
 and atmospheric musical score of Heroes II.
  
  Heroes III is a great game, it may be more of the same , but in the case of the Heroes of Might 
 and Magic series that's not a bad thing. It brings several, however minor, additions to the series, 
 and is a favorite among fans for many good reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastirOfPuppets
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game is quite magnificent. It has roleplaying and strategy based aspects to make it an interesting 
 game to experience. On top of that it has unique races each having their ups and downs but they 
 are well balanced with each other. The races also include many mythical creatures (dragons, vampires, 
 centuars, goblins, orcs, you name it) . So if you're a fan of fantasy this game will prove to be 
 of your interest. As mentioned before it has many roleplaying aspects such as heroes that gain 
 experience as they win battles with their army and they can collect items known as Artifacts to 
 increase your hero's army. If you picked the Undead Necropolis as your starting town and you're 
 getting tired of seeing the living dead in your army, not a problem. All you have to do is find 
 another enemy or neutral town on the map (hopefully it would be a Human Castle) and hire the creatures 
 found inside.
  
  The only thing I find flawed in this game is the AI. When the AI difficulty is on easy, the game 
 is too damn easy. When it's on normal or above, I find it too damn hard! The computer AI on easy 
 will be restricted from building upgraded lvl6 and 7 creatures. On top of that they don't really 
 mass up armies as quickly. When on normal, you may find the computer to be really easy at first, 
 but as the game progresses, it seems as if the comp pulls armies out of his butt! His army is just 
 so grand in mid game, I my army can't compete. 
  This one of the best games ever made. Although it can be frustrating since the computers are quite 
 tough, depending on the difficulty of course. But in the end it's fun to annihilate them off the 
 face of the map! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arwenator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  To say I have a love / hate relationship with Heroes III is both accurate yet ambigious.
  
  Let me explain.
  
  My love comes from the sheer scope of this game and the endless battles 
 that rage between good and evil within its golden grasp. It has it all; strategy, adventure, skill 
 and substance. Some may disparage the graphics, but such concerns are fleeting - in such a game, 
 asethics do not matter. However, the graphics have been lovingly renderered and the music more 
 than makes up for any lack of visual flair.
  
  So in these ways and many others I love it.
  
  But hate comes into it too. I hate not being 
 able to play this epic programme whenever I want, I hate having to stop playing in order to eat, 
 sleep, p**s &amp; s*it. I hate the fact that one day I will have conquered every aspect of the 
 game and have to live on the scraps of inferior sequels. So there it is. If you have never played 
 this game and are somehow reading this review I conclude it is fate that you will become a Hero, 
 both mighty and magical, and find that the line between good and evil; love and hate is thinner 
 than you ever believed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlinhoz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Heroes III, best game ever made? Well, that's at least what I think of it. With over a 100 hours 
 spend with this game I sure know it is. 
  
  Graphics
  Very colorful 2D graphics, with a lot of... what should I say... passion? ;) It's a little aged 
 though, so I'll give it an 8 out of 10.
  
  Sound
  Oh man, this is great! Maybe the best melodys and sound in a game ever! I mean, here we've got 
 so many classic tunes so it would be a crime if i didn't gave it 10/10!
  
  Gameplay
  The game is turnbased, so you may think it would be boring in that way... but it isn't, at all. 
 With a mix of a great control (you only use the mouse) , and a perfect difficulty this is just... 
 perfect. Again. 10/10
  
  Value
  Well, this game will last forever. I bought it as a 8-year old in 1999, and I still enjoy play 
 it sometimes. It was the best 149 swedish kronor (about 25$) I've ever spend. 10/10
  
  To sum up; a perfect game. Well, not just perfect; IT'S THE BEST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krekar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  heroes 3 well what can say its just great u will never ever get bored of it.
  i can play this 12 hours in stretch no problem at all the gameplay is just great.
  as we all 
 know and hopefully think heroes 4 sucks but they have done it again
  with heroes 5 so anyways this is about heroes 3.
  maybe the graphics isnt the best but so what 
 that some of the stuff that makes it great i really dony need good graphics with this good gameplay. 
 it was released in 1999 but still play it.
  so if u still dont have heroes 3 go buy it but a tip dont buy heroes 4 because it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiveball
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Definatly better than the old heroes of might and magic 2. Graphics, gameplay and sound are huge 
 plusses over the predecessor. You do not have to worry about framerate as this is a turn based 
 game. The only thing bad about this game in my opinion would be the replayability. After a while 
 everything is pretty much the same. Build city/ buildarmy/ combat/ buildarmy/ combat. I would not 
 say it is a STRATEGY game. A more accurate description would be TACTICAL. I look forward to HOMM4 
 and seeing how this issue is addressed. I think it would be a good value for money because it does 
 have a decent plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpmf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  ok where should i start........ heroes of might and magic 3........ just the best strategic game 
 you will ever play.
  this game is a little bit old but you just cant rip your eyes off this game.
  this game made 
 history for me im even playing it now.
  this game is almost like the other in the series but that this one is the best heroes 3 is game 
 about wars and disagreements over different kingdoms and heroes that leads the kingdom.
  you can play or campaign or single player against the computer wth a choose over 100 maps and stories.
 
  or you can play with a friend near by or far away.
  
  ok so in this game you will play as any kingdom youll like {single player} .
  like always youll 
 start with a small kingdom and raise it to the biggest bestest if you made it. you have soldiers 
 every one have something that is special of course youll have sources like: diamonds gold rocks 
 woods and more.
  youll have to get these sources from special places youll have to fight for it because without 
 these sources you cant buy soldiers or buildings.
  
  im hardly reccomend this game this game is one of the best.
  you cant sleep without thinking 
 about this game and how youll play it toomarow.
  
  ths game have also very easy comtrols youll understand it very fast.
  this game was one of 3DO 
 and not like heroes of might and magic 5. maybe this game doest have the best graphics but the 
 gameplay and everything is perfect if you also notice i wrote:
  time spending playind; to date:
  100 or more hours
  beacuse this game you can and you would 
 i bet you would play forever.
  
  the game was and still is a hit.
  and if you wouldnt play this game you wont know what is to play a really good game. {its a fact 
 hah....} !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yowko
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I dunno how to start.
  So many games iv'e been playing in my short life,
  Very few comapres to this teriffic game, Heroes of might &amp; magic III.
  I started playing 
 it with some of my friends when i was very young, we spent hours every day on it, but we simpley 
 spent time on this great game.
  Only when i started to get older, when i knew about gaming better, I started to realize how great 
 this game is.
  The 2-D graphics are amazing, very colorful and high detailed.
  The gameplay is awesome, endless colorful amazing maps to explores,
  So many foes to defeat, 
 so many artifacts, castles, portals, and..
  It's just amazing game.
  I'm still spending hours on it.. there's something in this game that just keeps u playing with 
 no connection to the time effect. u just won't notice the hours passing.
  
  For an end- this game is just a must play experience. It's one of the greatest game ever made, 
 period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Who ever makes these games always does the smart thing but only updating the monsters and the kinds 
 of monsters you can meet, and keeping the original gameplay. Other game companies could learn a 
 thing or 2 about this game company. This is one kind of game that impresses me most of all since 
 that should be the common goal to a sequel, don't change the gameplay, just change the characters 
 or add to the characters.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Fantastic, the art work they used to make the characters and monsters is still a classic to see. 
 Even though it's only 2D sprites, this is what classic art is all about and once again, game companies 
 should take note about making art the right way. The fact that the mapping system and combat system 
 is the same is also a plus for me. This company knows how to keep gaming simple and still update 
 it at the same time. Plus, the map editor is a plau for people who want to make a more challenging 
 game for other players out there. Great job guys.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  THere is nothing much to say about this, all controls are used by a mouse. You can't get simpler 
 than that. Controlling your charcters destinations, finding items long the way, updating your characters 
 attributes, and the combat system couldn't get much simpler than this. PLus, the fact that it's 
 turn based makes it all the better. I like games that let you be able to think about what you need 
 to do while in combat instead of fast-paced action (Not that there is anything wrong, I just like 
 a good strategy once in a while) And the fact that you get to build your towns and monsters is 
 a major plus. Like I said, you can't get simpler than all mouse control.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  This is a fun and intriguing game for all players to play. If you ever wanted to play 
 a good strategy game that does require some thinking and logic with a simple interface to use, 
 this is the game to get. Course, even though this is part 3, parts 1 &amp; 2 are also good for 
 starters to sorta give you an idea on how this game is played. And for those who are fans, this 
 is a must have for all fans of this game series. Med-Eval style at it's best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gecko-a
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  The first time you play the game you aren't too impressed by its graphics, it's all 2D. But forget 
 the poor graphics, the size of the maps, the sheer number of units and their upgrades more than 
 makes up for the graphics. After half an hour experimenting around you'll already have forgotten 
 the 2D graphics and will be gathering an army. The combat is fun, with spells and monsters to spice 
 the fights up, large battles become something to look forward to. Once you get your hero to the 
 higher levels the spells become very destructive and can turn the tides of the fights. But to me 
 the games best quality is its multiplayer mode. I don't mean online gaming, I mean one person taking 
 a turn on the computer then the other has his/her turn. It's fantastic! Beating a friend has never 
 been so much fun, but do be carefull, you begin to take it a little too seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wesley_76_2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  heroes of might and magic 3 (homm3)
  
  from my oppinion the best game ever made.
  you can choose from a lot of armies train your hero.
  learn new skills make towns upgrade them 
 capture them.
  
  your hero is the center of your army you can add units to the hero up to 9 slots. 
  and each 
 slot can contain unlimited sizes of that kind of unit.
  
  so your army can get as big like you want it.
  you have the control of everyting.
  what also 
 fell into my taste that it is possible to make your own maps.
  with the homm3 3DO map editor.
  
  well if you have missed this one, get your but on google 
 and get the game now =) cause you CANT miss it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuseking
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I had played heroes 2 and was amazed how fun the game was. When i played heroes 3 it got even better. 
 The key features i enjoyed was the map editor and also hot sea which aloud for me and my friend 
 to play on the same comp taking turns with the mouse do are moves. It was a easy way to play each 
 other without linking computers or hooking up on the internet. 
  
  Also each level had its challanges. Most game make the frist 3 or 4 levels easy but heroes takes 
 you right in. The map edidtor kept you playing making it intresting with tons of items you could 
 hide or earn.
  
  Overall this has been a great series and I am eager to play Heroes 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has you control a faction in the fight to rule the world. What else is new? Well, if 
 you know Might and Magic, you might know there could be some Might and or Magic involved in this 
 fight. So was this a good fight or a bad one? Read on!
  
  Graphics- Okay, out of 10, I'd go with a 7 or so. Which isn't really too terrible. Sure the 'map' 
 graphics are pretty low tech, and the 'battle' graphics don't really make up for it, but you still 
 can see what is going on and you can see it realtively well.
  
  Sound- The sound is pretty good. I have literally went to sleep listening to the music, and I really 
 can't complain. Sure it might be a little bit annoying, but all in all it's all right.
  
  Playabilty- To move around on the map you simply click where you want to go, and click again, or 
 press space bar, to go. Pretty simple. To move around in battle you click where you want to go, 
 click or press spacebar to go there. Easy.
  
  Replayability- Because there are a few campaigns and you can play this game multi-player using 
 'hotseat,' I will give this game a 8/10 for replayability. Sure you may not want to do it, but 
 the options are always there if you feel the incling.
  
  For me this game didn't really distinguish itself enough for me to play it more than a few hours, 
 but to each their own. If you like commanding a few heroes across lands and killing opposing kigdoms, 
 this may be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long time fan of HOMM, and have played all the games, from HOMM 1 to HOMM 5, just 
 despite some expansion packs. Before the HOMM 4 came out, this was a great game, actually it still 
 is, and a funny experience all way through, but i dont agree with the things people are saying 
 about, that this game is far more better than HOMM IV and V.
  This game improved on quite many things, but the sequal improved on just as much. Also HOMM V is 
 a good game, though there where less improvements here, But number 5 reminds very much of this 
 game, so i dont understand why so many people hate both HOMM IV and HOMM V.
  
  This game is great in every way, with the exception of the graphics, which look a bit old, even 
 from 1999, but i dont think that people should hate the sequals, just because of, that HOMM IV 
 let your heroes fight in battle, and especialy do not hate HOMM V, just because that it hasent 
 been developed by the same developers, and produced by the same producers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Handren11
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Just wanted to say that this game is extraordinary and has it all. I belive that this game is one 
 of the best games ever made.
  
  The adventure, The challenges etc
  
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
 
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla blac
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
 
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
 
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
 
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
 
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  and i have to write more words so bla bla bla
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugly_gee
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  i bought HOMM 3 second hand from local reseller with 5$.
  from the cd covers i thought it worths to try. i felt disappointed when i first played: cartoon 
 graphics, my hero moved a little and stopped. 
  after 1 week i red the manual and tried to play again. i couldn't step away from the computer for 
 more than 8 hours. 
  i don't think i need to present the game anymore because everyone heard about it. but if you have 
 patience for 1 hour you will be rewarded with one of the most addictive video game from street 
 fighter on sega till now.
  i'm sorry for my english but i needed to say something about this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  If there ever were a game that would have you clued to the screen until you passed out, this would 
 be it. Atleast for me.
  
  Being a fan of the series from the precursor King's Bounty (up to HoMM V) , I know what I'm talking 
 about.
  This installment brings everything that is, was and probably will be great in the series to a complete 
 package.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  
  I really have nothing bad to say... nothing. I can't conjure up a thought that would show this 
 game in a negative way. Everything is so well done. Even while I might have had something bad to 
 say from the minute the game was released - I have nothing to say now, when two expansions are 
 out and countless patches that have fixed even the smallest bugs and balanced the the most minor 
 details.
  
  Just buy the game, and see for yourself that it has the right mix of everything. Looks good for 
 it's age, plays amazing and succeeds in holding back just enough to not let the game get overly 
 complicated on any level.
  And the Storyline - especially for the expansions --- dear god. Never have I had this much fun 
 and motivation to complete maps. Always a twist and a memorable event to make you fall in love 
 with the game.
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  Only thing to corrupt the score of this great game. It's the year 2006 and technology has improved. 
 This game can no longer keep up they way I'd like to see it do. But non-the-less, it's 2D graphics 
 are amazing.
  Because you see - 2D looks great even years later, because quite frankly there is little that even 
 the most advanced systems can do to improve them. 2D is like a painting, there is a limit to how 
 good it can look.
  Other than increasing the resolution, there is little to be done - and that's why age will never 
 competely crush this game.
  
  Sound - 10
  
  After entering the Rampart town during the game, turning up the volume on my speakers and sitting 
 by the opened window, looking at the beautiful sunny summer sky - I have concluded that this game's 
 music is so great, that I'd rather listen to it even without playing the game...
  And the sounds themselves are what you'd expect. Troops fighting and spells being cast. Not revolutionary, 
 but they are just right.
  Overdoing with basic sound effects is a big no-no. A death cry is a death cry... this game has 
 this spot on.
  
  Value - 10
  
  Total of over 20 campaigns (don't forget the chronicles) and dozens of official maps and near infinite 
 user-made maps + Map editor for you own maps.
  Can you ever finish playing them all? I haven't yet. And I've played the game for 7 years, on and 
 off. 
  If this isn't value, I don't know what is.
  
  Tilt - 10
  
  This game is perfect. I don't know whether it's the game itself or the fun memories I've had while 
 playing it - every time I think of HoMM III, my mood changes for the better.
  
  A game to have for everyone, newcomers, fans of the series and even casual gamers. Easy to learn, 
 tons of value and easy to find and easy to play even on old pc-s.
  Is there anything else you want? Doubt it... if you seek any one element that is greater than on 
 this game, you might find it. But I dare you to find a similar game that get's the entire package 
 so right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:45 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for Heroes V to write this review, and now I just confirmed my thoughts: Heroes III 
 is the best title of the series. Heroes of Might and Magic III, developed by 3DO and released in 
 1999, is the best fantasy Turn-Based game ever developed. While both the forth and fifth installments 
 of the saga are great, neither of them can beat the quality of this solid strategy game.
  
  In this game there is a mix of RPG and strategy elements. If you play the campaign, which I recommend 
 to, you'll gradually learn how things work in the world of Erathia. Generally the idea is simple, 
 but there are a lot of tricks that you must figure out by yourself, and don't expect the game's 
 tutorial to teach them. Like in Chess, your tactical decisions may be very subtle sometimes, but 
 they're the key to the victory. 
  
  In Heroes III you play with characters known as heroes. They're the only way to move your army 
 throughout the map. Your troops are recruited in the castles, which produces, at the end of an 
 week (or seven turns/days) , new soldiers to your army. Plus the castles are responsible for the 
 production of resources (gold, wood, ore, sulfur, gem, crystal and mercury) , all of them necessary 
 to build the fair selection of available structures.
  
  Each race has their own type of heroes, soldiers and castles. You can choose between: Castle (humans) , 
 Rampart (elfs) , Tower (magicians, golems, titans etc) , Necropolis (undead) , Fortress (lizard-folk) , 
 Stronghold (orcs/goblins) , Inferno (devils) and Dungeon (manticore, dragons, harpy etc) . There 
 is a good variety when comparing the units and structures from each race, and 3DO definitely didn't 
 want to create a template unit and just put a different skin for each castle. They're all pretty 
 different, although the developers were effective to give a coherent balance between the troops 
 from the various races.
  
  You must manage your kingdom in order to protect all your castles and guarantee the production 
 of new units and resources. Then you'll be able to attack your opponent and defend yourself at 
 the same time. This is the basic strategic idea in the world map. To effectively achieve that, 
 however, you must travel with your hero to find important items and special locations, otherwise 
 your adversary will certainly beat you in no time. The artifacts play an important role, since 
 they'll either empower your units in combat or give a nice bonus to your hero. And the special 
 locations are eventually necessary to give a boost to your resource productions, which will speed 
 things up when recruiting expensive units and building your castle.
  
  When you engage in a combat, a hex-grided battlefield is generated in accordance with the scenario 
 where your hero was located; for example, if your hero was between trees, the battlefield will 
 look like a forest. Then, your army and the enemy troops appears. Starts the player that have the 
 fastest unit (this is, the unit that move more hexes per turn) . Here, there are some of aspects 
 to consider: flying units, used to pass through obstacles or walls; ranged units; ballistas; catapults, 
 placed in combat only if you're invading a castle; spellcasters, including your hero, that can 
 turn the tide of the battle; and some others special units. All of these troops work in coordinated 
 attacks, and there is no way to win a balanced battle against your opponent if you don't explore 
 the qualities of each unit.
  
  The special units have unique abilities, which allow a good variety between the races. Vampires, 
 for example, are level four units that have the abilities to fly, drain life and attack without 
 be retaliated. A unit from another race with the same level, like Mage, from Tower, is a spell-caster 
 that operates at long distances. Dragons, both from Dungeon and Rampart, attacks with a fire breathe 
 that hits one or two units in just one strike. Hydras may hit all adjacent enemies with one attack. 
 We can continue talking about units in Heroes III for hours, although experimentation is the key. 
 
  
  This game also comes with multiplayer support, to play via IPX, over the net or in the same computer. 
 The problem is that you can't see all the things that your ally is doing if you play a remote game, 
 so it will become tedious in just a few hours. If you want to play this in multiplayer, start a 
 game with other players in the same computer. Obviously, if that is the case, you must play a cooperative 
 game; otherwise the competitive mode would be unfair. =)
  
  It's a classic that is a must play for every RTS and RPG fan. This is not only the best game of 
 the series, it's also one of the best titles ever released in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSfanno1
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic III is a strategy game from the year 1999, but is still enjoyable 7 years 
 later. Gameplay is fun, graphics are good, music is nice, and the value is amazing. Featuring online 
 play, Hot Seat, single scenarios, and campaigns, Heroes of Might and Magic III is almost the perfect 
 strategy game.
  
  The graphics might not be good (and are actually bad for PC) but considering it was made 7 years 
 ago, you can imagine that the graphics were the best possible back then. The cutscenes (or the 
 scenes before and after campaigns) have amazing graphics, even for 2006.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic and Heroes of Might and Magic II were practically horrible (the gameplay 
 was fun, but the graphics ruined everything) . But it all dramatically changed in Heroes of Might 
 and Magic III.
  
  The gameplay is quite simple once you learn it. It takes about 50 minutes to learn most of the 
 game, but every scenario you might discover a new artifact, object, or effect. With 2 expansion 
 packs (Shadow of Death and Armageddon's Blade) you can expand the possibilities with new creatures, 
 artifacts, campaigns, scenarios, objects, and even a new castle in Armageddon's Blade.
  
  The original game features 8 castles, each with unique structures, creatures, heroes, effects, 
 and spells. The combat is the main thing where tactic is used, and the rest is mostly strategic. 
 The player must build armies and expand his empire by building structures, conquering castles, 
 and defeating rivals, while keeping an eye on resources to build you towns such as gold, wood, 
 ore, gems, etc.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic III also features new spells, to help the player in and outside of combat. 
 Spells can boost your creatures, hurt you enemy, weaken your enemy, create obstacles, remove obstacles 
 and even teleport, fly, and walk on water outside of combat. Different creatures have different 
 effects that work like spells, but are automatic.
  
  Artifacts play an important part by boosting your creature's strength, making you walk more, giving 
 you extra resources, giving you spells, or protecting you from spells. Artifacts can also be sacrificed 
 when you into special building for experience and resources.
  
  Heroes have secondary skills, which are special abilities to help the player in any aspect of the 
 game. Secondary skills are obtained by increasing levels, which is possible by getting experience 
 from battles. In addition, primary skills are also in the game to determine your hero's main skills.
 
  
  Instead of normal fighting, when you attack a castle or being attacked, a siege will occur. A siege 
 is when the defender of the castle walls for extra protections and attackers. The attacker must 
 get over the walls using flying creatures or destroying them using spells and a balista.
  
  This game also has campaigns, which scenarios based on stories in the game. Campaigns are usually 
 harder than normal scenarios, and are for only one player. After you have mastered campaigns, you 
 can go online and test yourself against friends and rivals on the Internet.
  
  This game gets a perfect 10 in value because it also features a map and campaign editors. Map editor 
 is used to edit the in-game maps or create you own maps. Campaign editor is used to create your 
 own custom campaigns by putting together a couple of scenarios and adding cutscenes between scenarios.
 
  
  Well, I've gotten this game about 6 years ago and I still play it. It's fun making maps, trying 
 hard scenarios, or going online. I have tried Heroes of Might and Magic IV but didn't like it very 
 much, because the gameplay changed in a bad way. I'm looking forward for Heroes of Might and Magic 
 V (or actually my new computer that I can play it on) and hoping that the series will continue 
 as it is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Heroes of might and magic 3 is one of the rare turn based strategy that I like. When fan of heroes 
 playing the Heroes of might and magic 5 I am playing the best one Heroes 3. Beside the Civilization 
 series might and magic is the best in this genre.
  
  Although it came to the market in the 1999, graphics and visuals are pretty good, keeping in mind 
 that turn based strategy games need strong gameplay and this game has that. Besides moving around, 
 collecting treasures, artifacts, resources and add various types of armies in your Heroes squads 
 from goblin to griffon, in your way through the game you will face many battles and you have to 
 win this either for clear your way or capture the resources. 
  
  Like other strategy games you can also build many military buildings like barrack, archers tower 
 and guilds, blacksmith etc inside your castles. And you can also recruit heroes from tavern. Castle 
 is the center of this game. You have to protect this from the enemies. Otherwise you will be eliminated 
 from the game and enemy heroes will constantly try to attack the castle. 
  
  Battle system is the main attraction of this game  when you attack someone or other heroes attack 
 you  you will find your hero and all his/her squads in the battle field and here starts the tactical 
 parts, you have to figure out how can you use your turns efficiently to eliminate all members of 
 enemy heroes troop. There is also a auto combat if you dont want to battle yourself.
  
  Heroes III comes with over 40 single scenario maps, as well as 6 interwoven Campaigns, There are 
 eight town types. Each town type now has two hero types, one of might and the other of magic. This 
 brings the total number of hero types up to sixteen. Heroes may increase their abilities in 28 
 secondary skills. There are 128 artifacts and 64 spells arranged into 4 schools of magic and a 
 total of 118 creature types. Overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiman12
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I can't even begin to count the hours i have spent killing monsters, laying seige to fortresses, 
 and wetting my pants when I realize that i am attacking a person who has twelve arch angles. from 
 sixth to eighth grade, this game consumed more of my life than any game other than Starcraft. there 
 is a real magic to this game reminicent of the works of CS Lewis and Tolkien. the only complaint 
 that I can really make is that the graphics are dated, considering HOMM V will be coming out tomorrow, 
 I doubt anyone will even read this review, but if you do, and if you are despirate for a great 
 game to kill a few months of your life, look no further than this gem of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shroompie
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing this back in Russia, and it was amazing, now I got a copy myself and it's unbelievable, 
 because i got it from eBay b/c no stores sell it anymore. It's still the king of turn-based strategy, 
 and it plays, looks, and (most important of all) sounds beautifully (DID I JUST SAY THAT) . The value 
 is pretty cheap and it's really worth it because it offers so much replayability. I really recommend 
 this if you want to kill a lot of time. Umm, I don't know what else to say except get this now. 
 Plz, get it plz plz plz pzl pzl zplplzplzplzzlzlzlzzzzzzzzzz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artemakis
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is perhaps the best game ever released until now, I have bought it in 2000 and still 
 play it very often although I don't like Turn-Based Strategies very much ! There are lots of maps, 
 heroes, artifacts, creatures and spells ! There are also nine factions and each of them has it's 
 own good pros and cons but Sylvan is the best. You have your town which you upgrade to get better 
 creatures or more gold or other recources, (there are 6 types of them) . You can also make your 
 own maps or download from the Internet, the best one is Vanadias Ruler. The multiplayer is awesome 
 too since you can play hotseat or though Gamespy ! This is a must have game for a strategy game 
 junkie ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urza5589
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Heroes III provides great gameplay with graphics that are respectable for a game of its age and 
 down detract from he rest of this game. Heroes provides for endless hours of replay value with 
 multiple great campaign maps and a plethora of castles and units. The campagin editor allows you 
 to create your own maps after you have finished playing the built in ones, and it also comes with 
 a efficent hot seatmultiplayer for large games on one computer. This game is well worth the cost 
 for any player you will find yourslelf coming back again and again. If you haven't played it, go 
 buy it. NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilelf3214
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: wow......@_@.. this game just like pulled me in instantly.. The begining cinematics and 
 a beautiful storyline. The plot is brought out and every senario or whatever I enjoyed playing 
 through and it just didn't end there nicely made cinematics afterwards. A TON of new units and 
 new heros plenty different new casltes to add on to the growing amount. TONS of new spells and 
 new seige equiptment and everything its got like more than 3xs the stuff HMM2 had and overall the 
 game play is one of the best.
  
  Graphics: Whoa.. I really don't know where to start.. The units are animated so well and everything 
 goes so smoothly. From the cinematics to the castles and to the units themselves, EVERYTHING is 
 just detailed so well. When you go to battle and you order some of your units to attack even that 
 is detailed and animated really well. The spells couldn't have been better either from a simple 
 magic arrow to that armagedon or some protection spell the graphics exceeds ALL of my expectations 
 and might not be the very best in its time but it comes pretty damn close.
  
  Sounds: New sounds and everything sorta makes it seem like your in with the game while your playing 
 it. The music seems to match everythign really well and goes very smoothly. The sounds of a unit 
 getting hurt or attacking some other unit or a catapult breaking down a wall the sounds match it 
 really well and makes it seem so realistic. Makes it really seem like your part of the game and 
 overall the sounds are really satisfying and one of the best in its time.
  
  Value: Even back then when this game just came out and etc its was all worthit and wasn't really 
 all that expensive and was worth the buy by ANYONE. But now you can get HMM3 for like $10 or so... 
 If thats all I'll need to spend for a top game like this I think i'll take while its hot wouldn't 
 you?
  
  Overall this game is a masterpiece and is everything and ALOT more that you'd want from a sequal. 
 I'd recommend this game to ANYONE even if you don't really like turn based strat games. Pretty 
 sure this one might change your mind =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhead1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  The best game i ever played. I spend many hours and hours to play this game, and never had enough. 
 I like hot-seat option to play this game, it takes time, but it's ok. Game is in 2D but it's looks 
 ok so. Sound is great. Only one thing i don't like, and it's:
  You can't play in resolution bigger then 800X600, but i understand that, it's old game.
  I have 
 all versions, including Russian WOG, and plenty of maps.
  Recommend to everyone who like strategy and logical games, and have hours and hours to spent!!!!!!!! 
 I spent more the then 3.000 hours for playing this game, and i have not enough. Crazy, isn't? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordgunner
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  
  Really unique and superb, really balanced and the AI is great. makes u feel like ur playing againts 
 human.
  
  Graphics:8/10Not superb, But defenitly amazing and great. The sprites are highly detailed and magic 
 animations look wonderful.
  
  Sound:9/10the sounds of the monsters and creatures gets a little anoying after awhile, but the superb 
 soundtrack makes up for that.
  
  Overall this is a game that will last forever, It gets old if over played but the addiction will 
 come back after 1 or 2 days of not playing, it is a must have for 
  any gamer, it will add to your memories and ull be telling ur grandchildren about the time u played 
 heroes of might and magic 3 and what a good games it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game gives me so many great memories when just started playing my new PC that I bought in 
 1999. Heroes were one of the first games I bought for my new PC. I got so much into this game that 
 it was so addictive I could not stop playing it! At that time in 1999 this game of the best in 
 its series better then the first 2 previous heroes games and also way better than the next heroes 
 game (heroes of might and magic 4 that in my opinion SUCK!) . The game has very good graphics (for 
 1999) it didnt require cool video cards like all the other games at that time. The game has a 
 big number of castles that you can play with and a big number of heroes too. There are basically 
 two classes of heroes Warriors and Mages (I always loved mages way better than warriors) . The game 
 has close to 200 hundred units which have their special abilities and much much more. There is 
 also close to 80 artifacts that heroes can use. The battles in the game are 2D but they still look 
 nice even through this day. In the battles you should always think what and against whom should 
 you use the magic or who to attack with you units. The AI in this game is pretty good (depends 
 on what difficulty you chose to play. But my favorite part about the game is music. Music thats 
 right everywhere you go there is different music and sound. I think this game deserves the name 
 of a game with greatest music. The game play is very addictive as I already said you can play for 
 hours before finishing the map or campaign. I passed all the maps that were available for this 
 game (there was I think about 80 or so) and all the campaigns too. The only bad thing about the 
 game was there were not enough maps to play. Because when me and my friend wanted to play hot seat 
 (one of the multiplayer options) I knew all the maps so I always kicked his butt. But later the 
 new versions of heroes came out it they were Armageddons blade and the shadow of death. I 
 was so happy when they came out with the random map creator! I and my friend or friends played 
 the game for hours (I think my total hours of game play would be close to 1000 or even more) . Now 
 with this new random map creator I got my butt kicked a lot of times too. At present time there 
 is many add-ons to this game like HOMM 3.51 with new units artifacts and you can even have a commander 
 in your army that can fight and cast spells and do some other stuff. I think this game deserves 
 to be one of the greatest games of all time. Recommend to everyone!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Heroes III is a turn-based strategy game that faithfully sticks to its predecessors, and adds to 
 them a tint of perfection. This game will keep haunt you for days and nights and you'll never mind 
 playing it again and again and again... even when the PS4 is around! The reason? Read on to find 
 out...
  
  Nothing wil prepare you to the addiction of this game. The developers have clearly understood perfectly 
 what game want and they put all elements of RPG, strategy, and style into one great game. You will 
 spend hunderds of hours exploring the landscape, the dark dungeons, and other amazing places that 
 are clearly the result of a faithful fantasy-loving writer. No mistakes here. None.
  
  The graphics are good in their own right. They are lovely to look at and are close to the heart. 
 You will forget everything as you gaze upon the sweet scenery and lovely characters.
  
  The game sounds very good as well. With soothing music all the way. Some variety could've helped 
 though.
  
  You will keep playing this game for ages. There I said it again. It is the only game you will never 
 want to sell on eBay! Perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lagmadosh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  New players used to brilliant graphics and effects that have not yet played HoMM III, might say 
 it is junk when they play it the first time. But if they have the patience to try it out, they'll 
 change opinions pretty fast. Guaranteed.
  
  The Heroes games are different from most other strategy games, as it is a turn-based strategy game. 
 Each player starts with a town, a hero, and a number of resources. The players use their turns 
 to build structures in their town, recruit troops, exploring the map, and fighting roaming creatures 
 or opposing armies.
  
  There are eight different towns, Castle, Rampart, Tower, Inferno, Dungeon, Necropolis, Stronghold 
 and Fortress, and an additional one in the expansion, Conflux. In each town, there are seven different 
 creatures (fourteen with the upgraded versions) with various power level and special abilities, 
 and wonderfully animated. The heroes (there are 130 different heroes, I think) lead your armies 
 of creatures around on the map, gather artifacts and resources, and attack enemy heroes, towns, 
 and garrisons.
  
  In the combat, your troops are standing on one side of the battlefield, and your enemy's on the 
 other. Then you move the creatures in turns, and cast spells to destroy opposing troops or enhance 
 your own. It is extremely well made, and makes you able to think between each move, and yet it 
 does not lower the intensity.
  
  The gameplay really shines. It is perhaps the best gameplay I've ever experienced on a PC game. 
 The heroes, towns, and battling system are made in a unique and nice way, and is funny yet challenging.
 
  
  The graphics aren't exceptional, but the towns and battles are very nice views. The creatures are 
 as mentioned before very well animated, and all of them have lots of cool details. The sound is 
 both calming and exciting, with orchestral themes for each town and location on the map.
  
  This game can have you sit there for hours and hours, without making you grow tired. It has something 
 to offer to both novices as well as experts, and new unexpected challenges every time you play. 
 If I could have put 1000 or More Hours in the "Time Spent Playing, to Date" box, I would probably 
 have done so. Because I have. And it is still fantastic.
  
  This is the best Heroes of Might and Magic game, there are few that disagrees with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnarfKenobi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  I think that you are wasting your time with reading this review. In this time you can play Heroes 
 III, or run to a shop to buy it. 
  This game isn't very beatiful or something like that, this game has something magical that keeps 
 you playing. The creatures are fantastic, the battles unique (just as the whole game) . It is something 
 totally different then other games. This is something we've never seen before (Except for the Heroes 
 I and II, of course) . I have no words for it. You like it or not. And if you like fantasy, very 
 solid games and unique gameplay, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Heroes 3: A game that won't ever be duplicated, much like the era it came from.
  
  I'm a Heroes junkie. Ever since one faithful day when I was 10 or 11 and my brother installed Heroes 
 1 on my computer I was hooked. With every new Heroes entry I would obsess over it for months at 
 an end imagining the new possibilities of the upcoming game.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic 3 is the best entry in the venerable saga. HOMM3 is an orchestra of battlin', 
 experience gatherin', artifact searchin' and story tellin' choreographed on beautiful maps with 
 over 140 mythological creatures. Heroes 3 is perfect from a gameplay perspective and is easily 
 2nd only to Half-Life in the world of gaming for ANY platform!
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  What makes Heroes games graphically competent isn't their uber-high resolution of multi-million 
 polygon counts but, rather, their style. That being said, Heroes 3 demonstrates both particular 
 style AND graphical competence.
  
  Let's talk numbers: more than 140 creatures, so many heroes I don't even care to count, 10s of 
 tile sets, hundreds of animation frames for every creature, etc. Sound good? That's the easy way 
 to sum up Heroes 3's graphics. The designer and artists that worked on this game must've bent backwards 
 to figure out the all of the individual creature designs and then to program them in such a way 
 that every one of their actions is perfectly animated. To boot, Heroes 3 is fully 3D now, including 
 all of the creatures, heroes and displays.
  
  The animation in Heroes 3 is the best part of the graphics... by far! All of the creatures, heroes 
 and terrains feel alive and have hundreds of frames of animation even when not involved in combat. 
 This is combined, to great effect, with a ton of tile sets ranging from your average snow, desert, 
 and jungle to the totally bizarre including dead lands and aerial battlefields. Needless to say, 
 when displayed in the battle screen these sorts of terrain will take your breath away for a few 
 moments.
  
  Alas, Heroes 3's graphics aren't perfect. Their biggest flaw comes from special effects: Lighting, 
 explosions, etc. which all seem sub par when compared to the animation, character and hero design. 
 And, in all fairness, despite the fact that this game looked good when it came out it can't be 
 compared with other games that came out in 1999, most notably Unreal Tournament, Quake 3 or even 
 Total Annihilation (which came out in 1997) .
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  If Heroes 3 is not quite up to par in terms of graphics it more than makes it up with its sound.
 
  
  The soundtrack in Heroes games has been unanimously named to be among the best ever to come out 
 in a game and Heroes 3 doesn't disappoint. Grand, sweeping orchestral themes, quick "war chants" 
 to keep you pumped, individual themes for all the castles available in the game, and so much more! 
 The whole soundtrack is recorded at an extremely high level of quality, which, when exported to 
 Winamp comes out to some 312 kb/s. That is astounding for even RIPPING the sound track.
  
  On the other hand, the sound effects in HOMM3 range from good to bad. Some of the sound effects 
 like the screeching of the medusas or the deep growl of the dragons are very appropriate for the 
 creature. However, some other effects such as the chicken-like reaction of an almighty Roc when 
 hit sound pathetic by comparison. Bottom line: Sound effects could use some work, perhaps even 
 in the quality level, when compare to the music.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  In simple, technical terms: The gameplay in this game is PERFECT! Heroes 3 is so well balanced, 
 so addictive and so huge that it simply isn't even influenced by some of the weaker spots of its 
 game engine. Simply put: there has never been a single game with such perfect gameplay ever, on 
 any platform.
  
  Heroes 3's story centers around the land of Erathia, a mystical land which has been at peace for 
 some time now thanks to its wise ruler. When he dies Erathia slips into chaos however and, sure 
 enough, 8 factions rise to attempt to take control of the mythical land. Throughout the game these 
 factions clubber, kill, and sabotage each other in order to reach their goal and, someday, mold 
 Erathia to their own tastes.
  
  Most of Heroes 3's story actually unfolds during its campaigns. There are 3 beginner campaigns 
 when you start playing Heroes 3: one for the good guys, one for the evil guys, and one for the 
 neutral people. As you finish these campaigns you unlock more and so on. Each campaign is strung 
 together by a story detailing the actions taken by each faction to stabilize itself on Erathia, 
 its inner struggles and its conflicts. The scenarios of each campaign are extremely varied and 
 can rage from anything like "build a castle and kill all" to "capture a specific hero" or "find 
 an artifact". Chances are that you won't get bored easily with the campaigns, if for nothing else, 
 because they're pretty damn hard especially when taking into consideration what Heroes 3 sometimes 
 makes you face with a minuscule or weakling army.
  
  Honestly though, few people play Heroes for campaigns or story. In all fairness the story is a 
 bit wordy and it sometimes gets on my nerves with its absurd attention to detail. The campaigns 
 are here to give you a purpose but the real game time here is spent in the scenarios, not the campaigns.
 
  
  Now, on to the scenarios and the BEST part of Heroes 3. The individual, stand-alone, scenarios 
 are where most of your game time will be spent. These massive maps on one or even TWO levels might 
 take you anywhere from a few hours to a few days to complete depending on who you're facing. Most 
 of what makes Heroes a great game happens during these scenarios. Scenarios in Heroes 3 can range 
 from your average annihilate all that moves to the more peaceful, annihilate all that moves 
 or capture an artifact. The variety of maps, objectives and ways to go about completing them is 
 astounding and simply leaves the campaigns in the dust.
  
  The basic gameplay premise of Heroes 3, obviously enough, revolves around your hero: The commander 
 of your troops in battle, the magician or the warrior, the barbarian or the warlock. As your hero 
 gains experience, troops and artifacts he/she/it becomes more and more powerful and more and more 
 feared when his little icon appears in your enemys territory. Heroes 3 feature of plethora of 
 heroes to choose from, starting from your average barbarian types and going into the more bizarre 
 with beast masters or necromancers. Finally, in Heroes 3 the hero is not defined by the castle, 
 rather, the castle is defined by the hero as specific castles can only build specific heroes.
 
  
  Each hero has 4 basic attributes: attack, defense, knowledge, and spell power. The first two are 
 self explanatory, knowledge is the amount of mana you have and spell power is the amount of damage 
 your spells cause to enemies. Each of these stats increase automatically each time you gain a level. 
 Of course, as you might've guessed, some heroes are more prone to learn one type of skill than 
 another. For example, a barbarian is more likely to develop his attack skill while a beast master 
 is more likely to develop his defense skill. The same way, a wizard develops his knowledge more 
 and a warlock his spell power. Luckily though, now you can build two types of heroes from every 
 castle: One that's more inclined towards magic and another towards might. Of course, that doesn't 
 mean that a battle mage (comes from a might castle) will beat a wizard (comes from a magic castle) 
 but it does give you a nice alternative if you like the troops but detest the "ME SMASH!!"-mentality.
 
  
  But wait, there's more! Heroes can also develop secondary skills and/or acquire a wealth of powerful 
 artifacts. Secondary skills come in 3 flavors (basic, advanced, expert) and range from the banal 
 (Eagle Eye, learn a spell used in combat by your enemy) , to movement (Logistic) , to brutal melee 
 (Armored) , to magic (Wisdom) to whatever else you might think of. There are dozens of secondary 
 skills in the game, but your hero can only acquire 8 of them, so pick carefully: These skills can 
 determine the outcome of a battle very easily. As for artifacts, Heroes 3 has so many of them that 
 I won't even bother to hit you with numbers. Lets just say however that they range from swords, 
 to bows, to armor, to gloves, to rings, and even to pouches of gold and have a series of beneficial 
 effects (there are no more "negative" artifacts) ranging from more hitpoints for your creatures, 
 to more attack/defense, or even resource bonuses. In order to balance things out though, your hero 
 can only equip a limited amount of artifacts this time. So you can't hold 5 swords with +20 attack 
 each anymore, your hero can only equip ONE weapon or piece of armor at a time. The rest of the 
 unequippable artifacts now go in the hero's backpack which is seemingly bottomless so you won't 
 have the frustration on loosing out on artifacts like in Heroes 2.
  
  However, heroes don't amount to anything if they don't have troops... SOME troops. What the average 
 player has to get about Heroes 3 is that it doesn't matter how many troops you have but how you 
 use them! You can have 2-3 times the amount of troops that your enemy does but if he has the better 
 spells, the better defense or attack, or the better wits you stand a good chance of getting your 
 ass kicked. This substrat of strategy is, by far, the best thing about Heroes 3. The way that this 
 game makes you think on your feet with the weaker nations like the Fortress, for example, and encourages 
 you to find a way to deal with the slow and weak troops available to you by using magic or trickery 
 is GREAT! However, this doesn't mean that you can just create superheroes with all the best troops 
 from every faction since other things such as morale and luck also play into the game. If you have 
 too many factions on one battlefield morale will go down so drastically that most of your troops 
 won't even get to move. Luck, on the other hand, is based on luck charms, shrines visited, or skills 
 learned by your hero and is not influenced by troop alignment.
  
  And while we're talking about "visiting", let's talk about the 3-screen-approach that Heroes is 
 so famous for. A typical game of Heroes takes place in one of 3 screens: the map, the battle screen 
 and the castle screen. The battle and castle screens are pretty self explanatory. In your castle 
 you can build new troops or new structures which can grant you anything from a gold bonus to more 
 troops or even resources. The castle screen has gone through some serious modifications in Heroes 
 3 as you can now increase your income in such a way that you can actually BUILD all the troops 
 from week to week, there are more faction-specific buildings, more resource buildings, and, generally 
 just more and better than in previous games. The battle screen has also gone through some modifications, 
 as it's now 60% larger and is influenced by the terrain you are in. Say for example that you happen 
 to fight on a very rocky ground. You might find yourself surprised when half the battlefield is 
 impassable because of terrain features. Generally however, the battle screen is exactly what you'd 
 expect from such a screen: Here you do battle, cast spells, or bombard castles. Just be careful 
 however, as the new broken-arrow approach now forces you to close in with your archers in order 
 to deal full damage.
  
  The map screen, on the other hand, is a whole new ball game. This is where most of the game takes 
 place. During exploration sequences you do EVERYTHING that's required to make the game move forward: 
 collect resources, battle monsters, flag mines or castles, acquire artifacts, visit structures 
 on the map, etc. To the novice player, the most important thing about the map is definitely the 
 myriad of structures that a hero can visit. These structures, ranging from dragon pens to gazebos, 
 grant you all kinds of things in the form of luck or morale bonuses, more troops, secondary skills, 
 primary skill bonuses, etc., etc., etc.!! The map view is also used to flag mines or castles which 
 will, therefore, grant you either more troops or more resources. Oh, and while we're on the topic 
 of resources there are 7 in all: ore, wood, sulfur, gems, crystal, mercury and gold. You can gather 
 these resources from either mines, structures on the map or just from small packs sprinkled around 
 the map.
  
  However once you get your resources, towns and heroes all moving and beating crap it's time to 
 think about units... oh God, the units! Heroes 3 features 8 distinct factions ranging from Warlocks, 
 to Castle (they have angels) to Demons to whatever you might think or even NOT think about! There 
 are some 140 units in Heroes 3, including the upgraded versions. Yes, I said upgrades. Each castle 
 can build 7 creature dwellings but you can now upgrade ALL of them to a "second level" which means 
 more hitpoints, more bonuses, more of everything! There are also units that don't show up in castles, 
 like the elementals. Of course, some units are weaker than others at their respective levels but 
 they all balance out nicely since the weaker a unit is the more of it you get. So while a Castle 
 player gets 2 angles a Fortress player gets 4 hydras instead. With a bit of magic and some good 
 strategy, 4 hydras will kick the ass of 2 angles any day.
  
  That's not to say however that Heroes 3 is perfect. Yes, if we must be analytical, some of the 
 factions are totally useless when compared to their counterparts. A Fortress player will have a 
 horribly hard time beating a Castle player with their weak and slow units. On the other hand, this 
 usually is balanced out so nicely that it really cannot be considered a problem. The AI, which 
 isn't the brightest kid on the block is a much bigger problem however. Fortunately though, this 
 too is solved when you actually have to face the AI in battle. Sure, outside the AI looks like 
 an idiot, but come time to battle him and you'll find out that you might be eating you-know-what 
 before you even get a chance to open your mouth, especially on the higher difficulty levels.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  Heroes 3 would be much lower on the list of Greatest Games of All 
 Times if it wouldn't have multiplayer... but, it does! Any AI or faction problems are virtually 
 solved by fighting human players and the experience is second to NONE on any platform!
  
  I spent hundreds of hours playing Heroes 3 with friends, staying for hours around a PC playing 
 hot seat until we all realized we had exams the next morning and we hadn't slept in days. Everything 
 choreographs so nicely in multiplayer that it becomes an INSTANT success, which is more than one 
 can say about other TBS games like Civilization.
  
  As if that all wouldn't be a good enough reason to earn this game a 10 in this category it also 
 has online multiplayer, LAN and even Play-by-Email. Oh, and did I mention there are people who 
 still PLAY this game online?! Oh yeah, that's what I call a "community".
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Heroes 3 is a vestige of an era long gone, an era in which PCs and consoles 
 were fighting for every inch of the market and they were almost at a stand still. It was a time 
 when we got the best of both worlds. However, just like PC gaming, the Heroes series slipped into 
 oblivion faster and faster over the next years with the horrendous excuse for a game called Heroes 
 4 and the upcoming piece-du-garbage called Heroes 5.
  
  Fans, gamers, and humans alike: This is the game of a great golden age that will never come to 
 pass. If you respect go out and buy this game if you don't already have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  HOMM3 kicked so much ass that i have more than trippled the maximum playing time limit on gamespot. 
 this game captures the meaning of mythology and mythical creatures. so much magic, so many scenarios, 
 so many heros, towns, units, items, creeps, in game trinks. just so much to say about this incredible 
 game. theres a lot of stradegy involved and it is unlike every other RTS where all you do is click 
 on the building and build. you actually go inside get a full visual of your city and build buildings 
 to spawn your untis and upgrade them and make garrisons and take them with your own hero and take 
 him and destroy the other side. damn this game is sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  My friends and I had a phase where we played this game for 5 hours a day probably the entire summer. 
 When this game grips a hold of you there is no turning away. With so many maps and so many unique 
 experiences, the game never gets old. I have also played Heroes IV and it cannot even compete with 
 this one. I am curious to know how Heroes V will do.
  
  Gameplay: No flaws here. Everyone takes a turn to make a move (like in the final fantasies) but 
 you have to incorperate so many different stradigies and spells when it comes to technique to end 
 up on top, especialy in a close battle. It becomes so intense, especially towards the end, when 
 you still have no idea who will win it.
  
  Graphics: Decent. The game isnt known for its graphics but they certaintly arent atrocious, they 
 just arent spectacular.
  
  Sounds: Real nice: Each creature makes different sounds when attacking and decieving damage (even 
 a different sound when shielding and recieving damage) . And when you make stops at different places, 
 they always greet you with a new sound. SOme of the sounds are more rudimentry but there are many 
 of them (I especially loves the hooves of the horses) .
  
  Value: Very Original. Not many people know of this game as it doesnt get the recognition it deserves 
 but it is very valuable in the sense that not many games are too like it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: High reviews. Like I said, not many people know of it, but of the people that 
 do, they love it!
  
  Recommendation: You don't need a high end PC or anything like that to enjoy this game. If you have 
 a computer, as long as it is new enough to have windows, you should probably get this game. BE 
 WARNED, this game is not for everyone but it is definitely worth the try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCCAAANNNDDDYYY
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I like it i really do but i think it could be more interesting. all so i've play lots of games 
 like these but i'd like a game like runescape but less dumb. because in runescape you can slash 
 someone but dosn't do anything. But still this game is good and ive been playing it a long time. if 
 anyone has any games like runescape but less dum please e-mail me at cnnr_y@yahoo. ca so anyway 
 i like this game and if you don't know runescape an online RPG. wel since i have to wright 100 
 words i'm going to say blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah and blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtWildey77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is proof that that alot of publisher and developer money gets wasted on trying to impress 
 the public rather than make a really good game. This game is years and years old and it's still 
 heavily addicting. Solid gameplay is where it's at so believe it or not, this game (as far as fun 
 goes) is right up there with Halo, San Andreas, and Burnout 4. No, really. Sure the graphics can't 
 compare, nor can the cinematics and to be honest the multiplayer requires a bucket of time to complete 
 a scenario. However, when the snow or rain is pounding outside, you can really get lost in building 
 your forces and then setting them loose. Kudos, 3DO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  I have gotten into all genres of PC games -- first person shooters, role-playing games, real-time 
 strategy, adventure, sports, simulations, etc, etc. Many are wimpy, plenty of them are tons of 
 fun, and a few are truly great. Of all the dozens and dozens of games over which I have frittered 
 away the hours, this one remains my all-time favorite. It's not even a contest.
  
  Yeah, I've played other turn-based strategy games, and some of them were really excellent. I can 
 recommend Disciples 2 in a heartbeat. And yeah, Civilization III was like -- how do you say? -- 
 electronic crack. (I will be enjoying Civ IV shortly, can hardly wait to try it out.)
  
  But this game -- the gameplay formula (it's a thing of mathematical beauty) , the animations, the 
 towns, the music -- everything about this game lures you into a hypnotic state of absolute enthrallment. 
 You'll sit there, eyes drooping out onto your cheeks, tongue down on your chin, bladder full, the 
 hours melting away like an ice cube on a hot sidewalk. "One more turn, one more turn, one more 
 turn," you'll feverishly play on while dusk turns to dark and dark turns to dawn. It's ridiculous. 
 Finally, you'll close your eyes to go to sleep and still be thinking about this game as you drift 
 off.
  
  If you don't have a little time to waste, do not play this game. If you do have some hours to kill, 
 and you like strategy games with role-playing (or character building) elements, then get this game. 
 It is, as far as I am concerned, the king of them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencehunter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I give much thanks to 3DO for making this amazing and unique game like no other. Heroes 3's game 
 play is amazing and extremely addictive. With a good Hot seats option (multiplayer mode were you 
 can take turns) , well planed out sceneries and exciting game play makes the game so special. It 
 also has awesome creatures like black dragons, devils or arc angels, gives the game fun battles. 
 Also the fun of finding artifacts and putting them to use is also another good characteristics 
 about Heroes 3. You also have a good selection of character classes. This fun filled game is one 
 of the best you will ever play. I being a big game player highly recommend this game if you like 
 to play straightly / roll playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lailong
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  to be frank Heroes III is one histories most unique and exponentially influencial titles ever brought 
 forth into this world. I have spent countless hours playing this awesome title. it isnt that the 
 graphcs are far superior to others or that it is very emersive it is just that no one else has 
 ever come close to the addicting gamplay and taunting however simplistic music. i just plain and 
 simply love this game and reccomend it to any video gamer, old or young, experienced or beginner. 
 id just like to say thanks to the guys at 3DO for such an awesome gameplay experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wertykamil
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  The best game. why?
  
  From magic to cobat Heroes 3 is the classic. Building your army exploring the map and gadoring 
 resources is one of the things to survive in the world of Heroes. Fighting your enemies is much 
 harder then you think siege battles and other battles it he underworld to beat the enemies of evil
 
  You start the game with one character or two, and a castle or town. Bacisly you need to get the 
 resourses to build the town like ore or lumber and create the army stronger then the enemies. Some 
 of the characters have special abilities wich you can upgrade and the game expends. Your soldiers 
 have specially abilities too so you need to use the wiselly.
  After defiding the enemise you win the game.
  
  I love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  After having a good time with Heroes of Might and Magic, I decided to give Heroes of Might and 
 Magic III a try and I believe it was worth my while. HMM3 is quiet an upgrade from HMM. I enjoyed 
 the new creatures, the ability to exchange items, but the best thing was the upgrades. The fact 
 I can upgrade my creatures made the game more interesting. The new skills, and new stuff was good 
 too. The graphics improved some, and its still 2d which is good for this kind of game. It still 
 remains simple enough for me to enjoy it. Very good game to invest on for older comps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordjorge2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The Heroes of might and magic III is perfect game. In 1999 only a few games that combination of 
 good sound, nice graphics, unique style and a very intersting gameplay. This a nice option if you 
 want a game different than others. 
  
  3do company that now doesnt exist have a great idea making the 3 part of heroes of might and magic, 
 Jon Van Canaghan impresed all of us whit his creatives stories. well this is all my opinions of 
 this fantastic computer game. If you have dude or you need a strategy just talk to me. and i will 
 anwer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  The game of all well fantasy strategy games, i still am a hardcore non-linear RPG fan but this 
 game has the makings of a good epic movie like lord of the rings. I really like having death knights 
 in my party with a couple of bone dragons aside. Hail the undead, well its really exciting and 
 fun to play killing a throng of peasants with your few death knights. This game is really a classic 
 and a hall of famer. in fact it should be considered as the one of the game of all games. Deleviring 
 fun and exciting gameplay in every aspect of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badrap
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has not played Heroes of Might & Magic III is missing out on one of the most fun and 
 involving strategy games ever created. 
  
  The random map generator gives you unlimited re-playability and the sheer magnitude of the game 
 options and town options and battle options is astounding. I will probably never get bored with 
 this game, and if anybody out there is paying attention:
  
  YOU MUST OWN THIS GAME!!!
  
  I promise you will not be dissapointed with your choice. 
  
  I suggest using either the 
 Necropolis or the Rampart town choices. I have has extreme success with both. Castle is also a 
 good one to choose, but tends to run out of resourses faster than other towns, and Archangels cost 
 a lot of $$.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlamingWonky
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  HOMM3 is an ancient game by todays standards, but it carries its age with impressive finesse. 
 The reason? Its timeless gameplay formula coupled with pretty, 2-D, pre-painted graphics. No simplistic 
 3D modeling, blurry textures, jagged lines or pop-up in sight. HOMM3 is a surviving type, a classic.
 
  
  Whats good now was amazing in 1999, to which date Im basing this review on. I was just 10, and 
 this marvel captivated me like no other game since, with the exception of Gran Turismos. Although 
 I never did play at home (for whatever reason my PC couldnt run the game, although I dont remember 
 why) , the game traveled with me to friends and converted everyone I knew into a die-hard HOMM fanatic. 
 (I was the hardest to die ;-) . I even spent a good $10 on a non-pirated (what a concept!) version 
 of Heroes 3 when I traveled to Russia (where the game is relatively popular) with family in the 
 summer of 03. There I turned more friends into addicts. Every time I load the game, set up a 
 scenario, or enter a town for some breathtakingly epic music, each time I feast eyes upon the lush 
 and vivid Rampart Something just warms me inside. This games the most passionate one Ive ever 
 played, and thats saying something.
  
  Gameplay  10/10
  I wont go into my usual repertoire and overview all the gameplay elements. That may take too long, 
 with my affectionate attitude towards Heroes 3. ;-) . Ill just say that the Heroes gameplay formula 
 isnt the most stable in the industry. Its not a staple strategy, nor is it a fantasy adventure 
 game like Might and Magic, nor is it an old-school RPG. If executed improperly, Heroes could have 
 been a less-then-average game. (Even Heroes I for the GB: C sucked, after considering the hardware) 
 Much-deserved kudos goes to New World Computing (which is now sadly out of business) and lead designer 
 Greg Fulton for such a great job.
  
  Heroes III comes with the most addictive gameplay Ive ever experienced. If you have work, family, 
 or responsibilities, I suggest you steer clear of this Just one more turn stuff. Three A. M. 
 comes quickly. Its meticulously balanced, packed with intelligent AI (that doesnt cheat too much) , 
 and in general very compelling. Online plays well too (or at least it did at one point, since I 
 doubt hosting still exists) , as well as hotseat. Sadly, the slow-paced gameplay immediately turns 
 off some gamers, with some maps taking a good 3 hours to finish, or more. This coupled with elements 
 that may be frustrating to beginners (the unfamiliarity of magic spells, button location, why cant 
 I do this etc.) means that some gamers (coughNukeouTcough) must be led by the hand before they 
 discover the sublime beauty underneath ;-) . Thats enough rambling, though, and Ill conclude with 
 the opinion that the gameplay is flawless. If I could go back and change anything, I wouldnt.
 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  I loved HoMM3s gorgeous graphics in 1999 and I do now. What strikes one first is the presentation 
  smooth, clean, detailed. Menus are sinfully pretty, as are the world map and hero screens. One 
 of the reasons for HoMM3s great graphics even in this day and age involves the fact that its 
 entirely 2D and 2.5D. A First Person Shooter from 1999 wouldnt look so hot now when paired with 
 Halo 2, Doom III and Far Cry, but 2D graphics dont get much better with time. And thats a good 
 thing, as it makes the game truly timeless. Again, if I could go back and change something I wouldnt. 
 The lush environments and sharp sprites and character art are that good.
  
  Sound  10/10
  Music plays a big role in any multimedia entertainment, and it certainly doesnt 
 disappoint here. HoMM3 has the best fantasy-themed weird-classical music Ive ever heard, seriously. 
 Each castle has its exclusive theme, and each menu, battle, and background track is better than 
 the last. Coupled with great sound effects for the sprites and static background noise, this calls 
 for a wonderful score. John Williams must be confounded.
  
  Value --10/10
  The claims of hundreds of hours (or at least a hundred) of gameplay arent erroneous. This game 
 is very addictive, and with six extensive campaigns and around forty standalone scenarios, theres 
 a lot to do. Exploring each towns strengths and looking for ways to expand into the delightfully 
 packed maps is tons of fun. And since the game is now value-bin priced, its an absolute must-buy. 
 If you can get your hands on the expansions, especially Armageddons Blade but also Shadow of Death, 
 I recommend them for the extra campaigns and scenarios each brings, as well as other slight improvements 
 and add-ons.
  
  Tilt  10/10
  I love this game!
  
  (Random Comments)
  Heroes IV is heavily marred in comparison to this game, or at least it feels that way to vets like 
 myself.
  I have the highest of hopes for the impressive-looking Heroes V planned for a Q1 2005 release, 
 wit a grain of salt and some reservations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2004 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Five years passed since the release of Heroes of Might and Magic III; there's a recent new sequel 
 in the stores right now; the hardware, the software, the design of games have improved a great 
 deal. But this game is a shocking experience even now, after all these years. Amazing graphics, 
 terrific musical score, intuitive graphical interphase, simple to learn, and with bunch of things 
 to explore and to accomplish on each level. No doubt: like Warcraft II, like Starcraft, this game 
 will NEVER get old.
  
  I don't want to bore you anymore. Go and play it as soon as possible. You will never regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  This game has a few faults but the gameplay is so varied and fun. I have to give it a perfect score. 
 The multiplayer is even more fun than the great single-player campaigns. Problems? Well, one map 
 can takes 4 hours or even more. When playing single-player, sometimes luck can give you or the 
 computer player some amazing artifact. That wouldn't be so bad except 4 hours is a long time to 
 play a map only to win or lose because of a one random artifact. It doesn't happen a lot, but it 
 happens. The computer AI doesn't cheat so much, but it does play the game ruthlessly well with 
 resource allocation. The computer is very good at getting the dragons before you have the resources 
 to do the same. This means that the most imporant thing you can do is find the computer player 
 on the map before he finds you. If you dont mess with him early, he'll sick black dragons on you. 
 This sounds like a lot of complaints, but it isn't. You have to play the game for a long time before 
 you see these faults. By the way Heroes IV is a dog -- a real dog. But Heroes 3 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutated
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2004 7:15 pm PT
Review:  If there are any games that are definite must haves, this game is one of them. Heroes Of Might 
 and Magic III will keep you glued to your computer for countless hours. While the gameplay might 
 not seem so great when you first look at it, you will learn to appreciate it completely when you 
 get into the game.
  HOMM3 is basically a turn based rpg/strategy. It focuses on world exploration and battles. And 
 believe me, there is plenty to explore and battle! The game comes with a big number of maps, and 
 additionally you will find countless maps over the internet, or you can make your own map using 
 the map editor that ships with the game (which is almost as much fun as actually playing the game!) . 
 
  The first thing you do in the game is select a map, or a campaign if you prefer. Then if the map 
 gives you the option, you can select your starting castle and a hero. The game features several 
 castles ranging from a human castle, down to a castle straight from hell! There is 7 base units 
 per each castle, with an option of upgrading the units through building new structures in your 
 castle. When you have a hero, you can start moving through the map. There is a huge variety of 
 objects that can be put onto maps, which makes every map unique. You can also have more than one 
 hero, and each of them has a certain amount of movement they can make during one turn. As your 
 army grows and you battle bigger and better monsters you gain access to new artifacts, and there 
 are many of them! Simply, saying the gameplay is very addicting!
  Now graphics. Well, all I can say is that the graphics this game has, fit perfectly into the game. 
 This game would never be as good in a 3D world, it would loose its certain appeal of simplicity, 
 and this simplicity is a big part of the game's appeal. Simple doesn't mean bad though, everything 
 in this game looks very good.
  HOMM3 also has a very nice multiplayer mode. You can either play thorugh internet or LAN, and you 
 can also play a hotseat game (all players play on the same computer, switching when it is their 
 turn) . Up to 8 people can play in one game (or you and up to 7 CPU players in single player) . Multiplayer 
 gameplay is also great, just as the singleplayer mode.
  To sum it all up, if you are a fan of RPG or strategy games, this is simply a must have. The game 
 will also appeal to casual players who look to have some fun for several hours. If you never played 
 this game, you are missing a lot. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
