-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes Chronicles: Warlords of the Wasteland
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroeschronicleswotw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 52 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 27, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You'll wish there were more to the first Heroes Chronicles game than just a series of missions stitched 
 together by a nice short story. 

 Warlords of the Wasteland and the other Heroes Chronicles games are based on Heroes of Might and 
 Magic III, New World Computing's popular turn-based fantasy-themed strategy game. Each Heroes Chronicles 
 installment offers eight linked scenarios and the same addictive strategic combat that's made Heroes 
 of Might and Magic so successful. However, these budget-priced episodes offer little replay value 
 and recycle most of the same graphics, sound effects, and other elements as the year-and-a-half-old 
 game they're based on.   

  Warlords of the Wasteland focuses on Tarnum, a young barbarian who learns of his once-proud people's 
 heritage one day and then embarks on a campaign to rid his land of the wizards who've ruled over 
 it for generations. But first, a high-quality introductory cinematic explains that Tarnum - who 
 apparently becomes a mighty barbarian king - is eventually slain, but is reincarnated in order 
 to redeem himself. Thus the missions in the game actually describe the events that lead up to Tarnum's 
 reincarnation, and in turn, the other Heroes Chronicles games. Therefore, while it isn't explicitly 
 labeled as such, and the Heroes Chronicles games are designed to be playable in any order, Warlords 
 of the Wasteland is clearly the first game in the series (even though it was released simultaneously 
 with the second Chronicles game, Conquest of the Underworld) .   

  The game consists of eight scenarios that must be played through sequentially. These missions are 
 intended to be suitable both for beginners and advanced Heroes of Might and Magic players, and 
 in this respect, they succeed. By and large, all of the missions are well designed to include plenty 
 of resources with which to build up your towns, plenty of monsters to fight, and plenty of miscellaneous 
 treasures and artifacts that are worthy of thorough exploration. They often include numerous miniquests 
 that make you travel back and forth across the map and coordinate your various heroes. To help 
 maintain the sense of continuity between missions, Tarnum himself and usually a couple of your 
 strongest heroes will transfer to the next scenario with all their battlefield experience intact. 
 However, they'll typically lose all their artifacts, and each subsequent mission requires that 
 you start with the weakest units and work your way up again.   

  Heroes of Might and Magic players will be familiar with the units that Tarnum will command through 
 most of the game. Each mission starts you off with a stronghold town, which lets you train units 
 such as goblins, orcs, wolf-riders, and the more powerful cyclopes and behemoths. You'll be using 
 these units through most of the game and fighting primarily against the wizards' units, which include 
 gremlins and golems as well as genies and giants. The campaign also features the swamp units of 
 the fortress town and the well-balanced units of the castle town. The other town types from Heroes 
 of Might and Magic are notably absent from the campaign, though they're the focus of other games 
 in the Heroes Chronicles series. The thematic consistency of the units and the mission objectives 
 certainly keep Warlords of the Wasteland cohesive, though it does run the risk of making the missions 
 seem repetitive. The missions themselves are fairly long, and you might grow weary of having to 
 use the same set of units toward the end of the game.   

  Surprisingly, the story of Warlords of the Wasteland is actually interesting enough to compel you 
 to finish the campaign and to interest you in subsequent Heroes Chronicles games, even if you've 
 played a lot of Heroes of Might and Magic III already. Told simply though text screens that appear 
 after every few game turns or so, Warlords of the Wasteland's narrative describes how Tarnum - 
 referred to in the story as "you" - rises to power and then seems to go mad from it. Still, you'll 
 wish that the game's story unfolded in a more dramatic manner rather than just with pop-up text 
 screens. And after the 20 hours or so that it takes to get through all the missions, you'll also 
 wish there were more to the first Heroes Chronicles game than just a series of missions stitched 
 together by a nice short story.   

  Nevertheless, Warlords of the Wasteland isn't bad for what it is - especially since there aren't 
 many available turn-based strategy games competing with it. Although a campaign such as this could 
 technically be made using the advanced scenario editing tools included with the Armageddon's Blade 
 expansion to Heroes of Might and Magic III, the quality of the levels in this first Heroes Chronicles 
 game is certainly professional. Also, though the Heroes Chronicles games are designed to be an 
 introductory series for players who aren't familiar with previous Heroes of Might and Magic games, 
 there's no particular reason why it's any more or less suitable as an introduction than any other 
 Heroes game. After all, part of the appeal of the series has always been its intuitive interface 
 and simple rules. Besides, if you haven't already gotten into Heroes of Might and Magic, then you 
 might as well keep waiting - 3DO's publishing track record suggests that all of the Heroes Chronicles 
 games will eventually be published together at a discount. As such, Warlords of the Wasteland is 
 actually best for those who're already avid fans of Heroes of Might and Magic - these players will 
 most enjoy guiding Tarnum through his first adventure and through subsequent Heroes Chronicles 
 games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RAMUHAS
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  I can see that the only point for the releasing those Heroes Chronicles was money milking for 3do 
 company, too bad it didin't save them from bankruptcy. The only thing this game has is one, a very 
 short campaign, only 8 missions in total, it makes me sigh as I understand that all 8 Heroes Chronicles 
 games are something equivalent in length to HoMM3: Shadow of Death. Well putting the ridiculous 
 lenght aside we still have quite a great and interesting campaign, it reminds me of reading a book 
 while playing, and thats a great thing. The texts aren't that lenghty as they were in HoMM4, but 
 they still succeed to bring the game's atmosphere to your mind well.
  
  The game-play hasn't changed since HoMM3, actually nothing really changed from HoMM3, except for 
 campaign's story. No new units. no new skills, nothing new, well 1 hero is new, but he has nothing 
 original except for his face either. Still I rate gameplay 8 as there is nothing wrong with it, 
 it's just like it was in HoMM3 and it's still great, I still like Heroes3 gameplay more than Heroes4. 
 Yet there is one but, Heroes Chronicles are way too easy for an experienced player to play, as 
 it's definitely a money-milking game for fans, I can't still comprehend why is it so easy. I've 
 played through this game on Impossible difficulty in ~20hrs without any looses, or even dangerous 
 situations, it's a laugh compared to the difficulty of the Shadow of Death.
  
  Well, graphics grew a little bit old already, and somehow after so much of HoMM3 games they lost 
 their charm, I think they should've better tried to improve graphics a little from previous games, 
 yet money-milking standarts doesn't apply here, as it costs to do such things.
  
  Sound hasn't changed from previous HoMM3 games either, and now it's a good thing. The sound was 
 perfect in HoMM3 long ago, so everything what they could've done is screwing it up, so thankfully 
 they've left it as it was. Those old themes still touch my feelings of nostalgia, remembering Heroes3 
 Restoration of Erathia, and how hard did it look the first time I played it, *sigh*.
  
  The value of the game is pretty low, as it's very short and it doesn't have single player scenario 
 or multiplayer, it only has 1 very short and easy campaign, so I would recommend to buy this game 
 only to the fans of previous great HoMM3 games, as it has a nice story which makes Heroes world 
 seem even more interesting. I myself have enjoyed it, as I am a fan of HoMM3 universe I couldn't 
 let this slip through my fingers, yet I couldn't shake the bad feeling that it could've been a 
 lot better if the creators of the game would've put more work into it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
