-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic V: Hammers of Fate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightmagicvhammersoffate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More-of-the-same scenarios apt to please Heroes traditionalists.
 Some impressive new features to ease micromanagement.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Tedious scenario design.
 Most missions aren't very challenging.
 Dumb artificial intelligence.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.7, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 652 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Aspirations to greatness go unrealized in this expansion for Heroes of Might and Magic V. 

  Considering the rabid fan following and the long wait, it's not a surprise that Heroes of Might 
 and Magic V was picked apart by certain members of the hardcore fan base. It was criticized in 
 more than a few quarters for a dull campaign, some glitches with the camera system and multiplayer, 
 and simply for being too updated a copy of the late, great Heroes III. A series of patches helped 
 a lot, though, and the game looked on its way to being one of the best in the history of the franchise. 
 Now, however, the series takes another step sideways with Hammers of Fate. Like the original game 
 on launch day, this expansion pack balances good points with bad almost every step of the way, 
 resulting in yet another turn-based fantasy adventure that isn't all that it could be.  

          Battles still take place in arenas so atmospheric that you expect someone to shout 'Mortal 
 Kombat!'     

  Patches won't be able to fix this one up, though. Problems here are deep rooted. The biggest issue 
 is a by-the-numbers campaign that starts off slowly and sees you guiding Haven units in the entire 
 first chapter. Even though the add-on features a brand-new dwarven race, Nival strangely chose 
 to kick the campaign off with a thud by giving us five or six hours of been there, done that. This 
 is a somewhat different Haven than the one you got to know in the original game, thanks to a mad 
 queen who fancies herself a deity. But the units themselves are nearly identical to their predecessors 
 except for some color changes, so the expansion still starts with what feels like outtakes from 
 Heroes V.  

  Yet even when the dwarves show up as a playable side in chapter two, the scenarios don't get any 
 more interesting. The dwarves themselves offer some neat new units like the bear rider and the 
 magma dragon, but they lack any sort of hook to make them play in a markedly different manner than 
 the other Heroes V factions. Even worse, almost every one of the 15 campaign scenarios is a dull 
 slog to clear a map. While each mission is packed with standard monsters, treasure chests, mines, 
 crypts, caverns, and the like, there isn't much challenge on the normal difficulty setting. You 
 can generally cruise through the first two-thirds or so of each level, steamrolling opposition 
 without breaking a sweat. You eventually run into an overwhelming enemy force or a barricaded town, 
 but this is just a signal to retreat to one of your towns and crank out buildings and units until 
 you've got a force assembled that can send the bad guys home to mommy.  

  Virtually every level plays out in this predictable fashion. Tedium is exacerbated by maps that 
 are artificially drawn out by barricades and impassable terrain. You can rarely get from Point 
 A to Point B without the hassle of key hunts (well, keymaster hunts, at any rate) , portals, shortcuts 
 through caverns, and so forth. Sometimes these expeditions seem like natural obstacles that a heroic 
 fantasy adventurer would have to deal with. But most of the time they come off like cheesy ways 
 to make you cover every square pixel of the map, and thereby lengthen the time you need to finish 
 the game (expect a good 20 hours) . So you don't feel so much like a hero on a quest as you do a 
 factory worker trying to survive until the whistle blows.  

  Poor artificial intelligence is another annoyance. As in the original Heroes V, rival factions 
 in Hammers of Fate aren't very hard on you. The computer fights pretty good battles when you get 
 to the tactical screen, but they often barely even recognize that you're there on the main map. 
 In many scenarios, you can wipe out neutral factions without much of a fight. Enemies will occasionally 
 sally forth to retake captured mines, mills, and the like if you leave them without garrisons, 
 but they're usually more concerned about the ownership of these resource-producing facilities than 
 about the huge army marching down the road to besiege their town. As the campaign progresses, foes 
 seem to become more situationally aware and will finally flat-out attack if you pose an immediate 
 threat. But even then enemies often don't behave rationally, and they frequently look the other 
 way as you devastate the countryside.  

  Yet despite all of the above, it's easy to get caught up in the repetitive action and play the 
 game for hours at a time. Maps are so crammed with goodies that you get into sort of a Diablo-like 
 flow and stop paying attention to how everything is so predictable and straightforward. And there 
 is an interesting retro feel that evokes Heroes III even more effectively than the original Heroes 
 V. So if you want an old-school approach, you'll get it here.  

          Just once we'd like to see a clean-shaven dwarf.     

  Little else about the expansion 
 is all that memorable, save for a few interface changes that make the game more playable. The most 
 noteworthy tweak is the ability to hire creatures on one menu from all your towns and buildings. 
 Instead of time-consuming switching from one location to another when building an army, now you 
 just order from one town menu and your troops are shipped to you automatically via caravan. No 
 muss, no fuss... unless an enemy attacks a caravan en route. Another nice addition is the simultaneous 
 turns option that lets players make moves at the same time until they come into conflict with one 
 another. This greatly speeds up the beginning of multiplayer matches. And a random map generator 
 has finally been included for one-off battles and multiplayer. It is a bit clunky at present, though, 
 and it forces you to do some editing after the fact to set up allied maps for team play.  

  Hammers of Fate is really only a good option for those with a fetish for predictability or nostalgia. 
 Even though the core Heroes V game mechanics remain superb and possess the ability to hook players 
 for hours if not days at a time, this fantastic design needs more-interesting campaign scenarios 
 and better AI than are on offer here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is crap. Period. While original HOMMV was very much enjoyable, this expansion offers really 
 nothing. I was disappointed - I wish I could see this coming.
  
  Pros:
  + Good micromanagement introduced.
  + Few good missions were added.
  
  Cons:
  - Buggy.
 
  - Added factions offers little.
  - Bad AI, not much difficult to handle.
  - Price is not justified.
  
  Though this expansion has added a new faction - Dwarven, I didn't 
 find it much appealing. Missions are not at par with the original game. Maps were interesting but 
 nothing special. it felt like as usual. AI is not as smart as the original game thus enjoyment 
 is reduced drastically.
  
  The strategy part has been reduced and it tried to improve more on fantasy part. I think it was 
 a bad decision which made this game not addictive as the original one.
  
  I would suggest not to get it unless you're a die-hard fan of the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kathrynloch
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  I honestly tried to give this expansion the benefit of the doubt. I really enjoyed HOMMV - talk 
 about hours of game play and an interesting story!
  
  But HOF falls flat on its face, no matter how much I wished it wouldn't. I just hit chapter 2 and 
 can't force myself to continue it - no matter how hard I try.
  
  Been there done that doesn't even begin to describe it. The new heroine you start out playing looks 
 so much like the old, I couldn't tell them apart at first.
  
  Basically most of the reviews ranking this game pretty low have it right, at least in my experience. 
 Sorry folks but this game is awful and I wished I hadn't wasted my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delcidanddarth
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V was, for some, a smashing success. It was basically a 3D conversion 
 of HoMMIII, which, to some degree, was all it offered. However, since HoMMIII was so great, keeping 
 the general principles intact was a no-brainer. However, offering more of the same can only go 
 so far, and this is where the Hammers of Fate expansion begins.
  
  The original game gave you six chapters to slog through, each with 5 missions to complete. This 
 game gives you half the chapters, plus 1.5 new factions. 1.5? How is that possible? Because you 
 get one brand new faction (dwarves) , and a second, modified faction (Haven rebels) , which I count 
 as a half. You use the Haven rebels for a large portion of the first chapter, and dwarves exclusively 
 in the second chapter. The last chapter is a re-hash of the Dungeon faction (dark elves) . Unfortunately, 
 most of the missions don't really show off the abilities of these new factions very well. For example, 
 the Haven rebels don't have any town, so you'll never recruit them from a town, only pick them 
 up from neutral stacks. The rebels themselves are mostly modifications of Haven troops to behave 
 like a different unit type from another faction. The rebel Angels now have the vampire ability 
 to drain life. The rebel footmen attack twice like a minotaur. Although this could translate into 
 a huge increase in Haven tactics if you combined the rebels with regular Haven troops, you never 
 really get an opportunity to do so. Of course, this could be incredibly unfair to the other factions, 
 but creating a spiced up, yet balanced game seems to not be the intent of this expansion. The dwarves 
 are not very well featured either, despite the interesting new abilities they bring to the battle. 
 Aside from some unique unit abilities, probably the biggest addition is rune magic. Basically, 
 whenever your unit's turn is up, you can spend resources to temporarily give them a new ability. 
 The most basic one (requiring only 1 wood) , doubles their movement, thus giving your powerful, 
 but slow, magma dragons the chance to run all the way across the field and attack in one turn. 
 This really tilts the scales into your favor, especially against neutral stacks. Another highly 
 over-powered example is the Warlord unit. When attacking, the warlord does a significant amount 
 of damage to not only its target, but additionally does an equal amount of lightning damage to 
 all adjacent targets (including the one you just attacked, so it's like double-damage) . It basically 
 equates to a chain-lighting type of attack, but does not have a limit on number of units it can 
 affect, nor does it have any damage reduction for sequential targets. So, if you do 1000 damage 
 to your target, you will do 1000 additional damage to that target, plus 1000 damage to any targets 
 forming an adjacent chain. You could literally do 1000 damage to every stack in the enemy army. 
 Although this is easily avoidable by not making adjacent stacks, the neutrals are not that smart. 
 If you couple this attack with the rune magic that doubles your attack damage, the developers just 
 invented an over-powered tier 5 unit. Of course, actually getting to test out all of these different 
 units is relegated to just a few missions that have a functional dwarf town to begin with.
  
  However, tilting the scales seems to be a running theme throughout the expansion. A new environment 
 type is snow, and for some reason, dwarves like to travel across snow (show me a 4 foot tall person 
 wearing a skirt who can travel faster across snow) . Other heroes will be incredibly bogged down, 
 giving the dwarves a huge advantage in travel times. The missions are set up such that this advantage 
 is almost necessary, but how this becomes an interesting add on versus an experiment in movement 
 modifications is beyond me. Unfortunately, some missions require your non-dwarf heroes to cross 
 this terrain, and the game becomes tedious to travel so slowly (which is partially how the game 
 can be considered lengthy) .
  
  Another theme in the game is providing seemingly useless additions. New items/characters/monsters 
 seems like a good idea, but in the end, amount to nothing added since you probably don't care anyways. 
 And when that happens in an expansion, the game stinks of lazy development. Even some of the new 
 stat bonuses are somewhat arbitrary and thrown in for the sake of completeness. For example, a 
 warrior guild will increase your offense or defense by 1. Ummm... the old battle arena did the 
 same thing, but did +2. How is adding a +1 building expanding anything? Especially since the warrior 
 guild looks more impressive, graphically, I was dumb-founded that I was getting such a crappy stat 
 bonus.
  
  Despite all of the bad press I'm giving this game, there are TWO cool new additions, and I'm assuming 
 these will be carried through to subsequent expansions/games. First, creature growth now stacks 
 in towns and creature buildings. This means that if you forgot or didn't have the money to buy 
 all the paladins in town, they carry over to the next week, waiting to be purchased. This is awesome 
 because, especially with creature buildings that may be far away from your town and could only 
 be bought when a hero was present, you are no longer penalized for not having the time/money that 
 week to pick them up. Second (and this really ties in with the first one) , you can mail-order your 
 creatures and not have to visit any buildings/towns at all. The game calls it caravans, and though 
 not perfectly implemented (you can only caravan creatures you are buying at the moment, not ones 
 you already have stationed in town) , it is a huge help in terms of map-management. The down-side 
 is the creatures still have to travel to their destination town, and to get the creatures, you 
 will have to go to that town to pick them up. Hopefully there will be a feature wherein you can 
 have reinforcements sent directly to your hero without requiring another hero to taxi them over. 
 You would think that with this HUGE time saver that more interesting additions could have been 
 made to make the game more interesting. But, you actually waste a lot of time following winding 
 paths on rugged terrain. This is NOT the way to fill up some game-time saved by a good idea.
  
  Overall, this game was a carbon copy of the original (well, duh... it's an expansion) , with 
 2 significantly positive gameplay additions overshadowed by a huge mess of poorly implemented other 
 additions. What this probably means is that we should see in the next expansion or installment 
 at least the caravans and creature carry-over aspects, but the time-saved in this expansion was 
 wasted on gimmicks and alpha-testing new factions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  The gamespot review is actually spot on: The random map generator that we get with this add-on 
 to Heroes V is a nice addition. Unfortunately even with the latest patch to this game, the computer 
 AI (especially when playing on the overhead map) is basically broken. I'll have an unguarded castle 
 with a weak hero nearby and the enemy will walk right on by. Or, I'll arrive to enemy's side of 
 the map and he still has not picked up treasure chests and artifacts or resources. They are just 
 sitting around for me to collect as I march to his castle. The game just isnt fun if this is how 
 the computer AI is playing the game. Sorry to say it but Ubisoft had a great idea to reinvent the 
 Heroes 3 game, but the computer AI in good ole Heroes 3 is still far superior to anything we get 
 in this game. this game is best avoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  The dwarf faction is fun to play, though their racial ability, rune magic, is not obvious to get 
 the hang of (took me half an hour to find those rune tabs above creature queue) . It also sports 
 a high tier fire resistant creature, and a powerful ignite ability when specialized into fire destructive 
 magic. And that's just perfect for an armageddon whore like myself.
  
  Besides the new factions, there is a chock full of new utilities. You will be able to hire caravans 
 to transport your troops. Creature number in the dwellings isn't reset at the beginning of each 
 week -- it just grows like back in HOMM2 and 4. Artifact screen was rearranged to look more HOMM3 -- like. 
 The campaigns are a bit stale, but at least they've animated lip movement in the cut scenes this 
 time. Sound is as great as ever.
  
  Learning curve for those familiar with HOMM genre is close to 0 if not that. For those who have 
 never played a HOMM game before, I would recommend picking up second installment of Heroes and 
 playing that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V was an okay game, but it definitely wasn't the best in the series. 
 Uninspired campaigns, mediocre AI, and of course the very small amount of scripted scenarios. Hammers 
 of Fate does very little to fix this, unfortunately.
  
  The game's campaigns are set some time after the conclusion of the original Heroes V game. The 
 storyline is still fairly bland and predictable, but I can't say that I'm surprised. The most notable 
 changes to gameplay is the addition of a new faction, the Dwarves. Oh, and there's the snow tileset 
 which should have been in the original game in the first place. There's also the return of the 
 Caravan system from Heroes IV, but unlike in Heroes IV enemies can attack caravans as they're a 
 physical object on the adventure field. The game also now has a random map generator, both in-game 
 and in the Map Editor. It's not as powerful as the past RMGs in the series, but it's the thought 
 that counts, and it adds quite a bit of replayability to the series. Now if only they'd fix the 
 AI since in Hammers of Fate it's still pretty bad.
  
  Graphically the only significant additions are the Dwarf town which is good. It looks like a Dwarf 
 town as it should. There's also the new snow tileset which is a very late, but welcome addition. 
 For audio there's nothing truly spectacular added. The new music is no improvement, nor is the 
 new voice acting for the campaigns.
  
  Hammers of Fate is an okay expansion. It adds some nice content (which aside from the campaigns 
 and Dwarf town) should have been in the original game to begin with. If you really liked Heroes 
 V go for it, but don't expect anything earth shattering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiti
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Hammers of Fate is a great addition to Heroes of Might and Magic V. What I like most about this 
 game is a Random Map Generator feature. This adds a lot of fun and replay value to the game. So 
 this expansion pack is not just more of the same. Heroes of Might and Magic V will never be a completed 
 game without the Hammers of Fate Expansion Pack. I just cant understand why GameSpots review 
 is too low and have to disagree with score. So if you like Heroes of Might and Magic V, Hammers 
 of Fate is a must for you and you will never be disappointed with this add-on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft's latest release in Heroes of Might and Magic series, HOMM V: Hammers of Fate will be a 
 great addition for whoever enjoyed the original HOMM V. In this new release, Ubisoft included a 
 new Dwarf race, a couple of new scenarios, and a few small, but significant changes to the original 
 game. Also, new snow terrain was added for the Dwarves, and everyone's favourite, random map generator.
 
  
  In overall, Ubisoft did a pretty good job of introducing the new Dwarf race without too much conflict 
 with the existing races both in gameplay and story line. Just like other races, their visual appearances 
 are also decent. They generally look like a typical dwarf you would normally imagine; short, but 
 heavy in armour, and live in a cold region with a huge beard. However, they are still designed 
 well enough to blend in nicely along with other races.
  They also have their own special abilities (just like other races) and special creatures that no 
 other races have. They use runeword magic, and have their undoubtfully the strongest creature called 
 Magma Dragon.
  
  In the scenarios and the gameplay, you will not find too many differences between the original 
 game and Hammers of Fate at first sight. However, there are few small features they added that 
 could make the game significantly different. One of the features they added allows you to hire 
 creatures from your town as long as they are available and owned by your faction. In original game, 
 creatures can only be hired when one of your heroes is actually at present at the building. This 
 can be not only frustrating in the later stage of the game, but also it is pretty difficult to 
 hire every creature you can afford, especially when the map is huge, because you will be sacrificing 
 your hero's movement points. As a result, that made those buildings not as popular as they were 
 supposed to be. With this feature, you can fully take advantage of owning extra garrison, as you 
 can just order the creatures to travel to a designated town. To compensate with the convenience, 
 you will have to take a risk of losing the creature when attacked by an enemy hero.
  
  Another small change was made in the cut seen as well, as the characters' mouth actually move when 
 they speak. In the original game, characters' mouth did not move when they were speaking.
  
  Like the original HOMM V, AI players are still not as challenging as they are supposed to be, 
 as they only seem to be attacking your hero when yours is significantly weaker than theirs. Although 
 AI heroes could be not challenging in the game map, they are fairly aggressive during the tactical 
 battle, and you cannot afford to make mistakes there if you want to win in difficult play setting.
 
  
  Random map generator was also finally added, and it is in fact working fairly decent. Although 
 you might find yourself giving it a final touch up here and there by adding more treasures and 
 creatures occasionally, it is still a very helpful tool because generated terrain is more than 
 acceptable in most cases.
  
  Heroes series have been great, and newly added Hammers of Fate is also another great addition to 
 the already great HOMM V. Although some people may find it frustrating for the game to offer too 
 few changes for the price, you just can't miss this one if you liked the original HOMM V. Not much 
 change, but it still offers that addiction you can't let go once you start the game. If you liked 
 the original game, it is definitely recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  It took some time for this Add-On to come. HOMM 5 was one good game, many people waited for this 
 game to come out and start playing a new TBS like HOMM 3. I think that most of you will agree that 
 HOMM 3 was the masterpiece of the HOMM series. One thing was missing the most, the map generator. 
 But with this cool Add-On we finally have the map generator and the new faction : The Dwarfs. New 
 neutral creatures and artifacts. If you wanna know more you should try this game. ;) You will probably 
 be amazed, after the time you have waited every new patch for fixing bugs and hopefuly bring the 
 map generator now you can play great multiplayer games with your friends or make new friends with 
 this amizing Add-On. All the best to the HOMM fans out there. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amrikove
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  Hammers of Fate doesnt really feel like an expansion, since there are no additions to the units 
 or the buildings to all the old factions, but it really made heroes of might and magic 5 playable. 
 A new race have been introduced, the dwarves, which fells like a combination between the Dwarves 
 and the barbarians, and the unit models portrayed this very well. The units are short and heavily 
 armored, similar to the dwarves in warcraft 3, and still there is barbaric felling in their town, 
 units , soundtrack, and the hero. They have a unit named the berserker, which shatters all the 
 hopes of seeing a stand alone barbarian faction in any future expansion pack. Sorry fans. The expansion 
 also added what all the fans have been waiting for. A random map generator, and it is working pretty 
 well. The maps generated are pretty unique, and kinda remind you of Heroes of might and magic 3 
 maps, with the treasures scattering all over the place. You may even level up you hero to level 
 5 in your third turn. However, the generated map needs some polishing which can be made in the 
 map editor outside the game. Its just that the mines tend to have week units guarding it. You 
 may see for example a level 1 unit guarding a crystal mine. But its nothing that the map editor 
 cant handle. The Campaign introduced, now is more polished than the original. The mouth of the 
 characters now moves as they speak in the cut seen. The voice acting is improved. However the missions 
 are not very challenging, but this is compensated by an interesting story though. The game now 
 is faster online since there is the simultaneous game mode. You can now play with the other players 
 at the same time, and then you hit end turn you wait for the others if they did not finish their 
 game yet. However there is a problem mentioned in the manual called the conflict, which happens 
 when you and one of the players are trying to access a treasure at the sometime for example. What 
 happens is that the automatically changes to be turn based again in the middle of the play The 
 only thing that is not seemed to be improved is the AI, Which is still the main problem in the 
 game.
  
  The expansion is really a great addition, and should satisfy the fans of the series. However if 
 you didnt like the original, dont bother with the expansion, since the gameplay is basicly the 
 same 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
