-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic II: The Succession Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightandm2tsw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.6, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 775 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is a must-have for fans of the first title. 

 The original Heroes of Might and Magic was a great game for avid fantasy readers and D&amp; D cultists 
 because it fleshed out the pencil-and-paper universe they admired. Not only did it animate this 
 universe, it made it strategically engaging, letting players pursue quests using carefully cultivated 
 resources, army recruits, and spells. New World Computing has now released the sequel, Heroes of 
 Might and Magic II, and while it still retains the same play structure as the original, the bundles 
 of new elements in the game coupled with richer graphics and more detailed character animations 
 should have fans of the first adventure eagerly donning their gauntlets for a second round.  

 
 Two new heroes - in addition to the classic Warlock, Sorceress, Barbarian, and Knight who show 
 up again in Heroes II - are available for selection at the beginning. First is the Wizard, who's 
 got a little more mana under his belt from the get-go, not to mention well-rounded skills. The 
 second is the Necromancer, a dark character with the innate power not only to stomp his foes in 
 battle but also to revive some of the battle casualties and enlist them - whether they like it 
 or not - as low-level fighters in his army of the undead.   

 Both of these guys can command a den full of new, bizarre creatures. The Wizard cultivates everything 
 from stone-slinging Halflings and terrifying Rocs, to scepter-wielding Mages and, well, big, mean 
 Giants. The Necromancer begins his crusade with dime-a-dozen skeletons, either obtained from his 
 castle or (as we mentioned before) revived from his enemies' dead bodies. Then he can start to 
 enjoin higher-ranking soldiers such as Vampires, Lichs (whose projectiles also screw up the target's 
 adjacent hexes) , and Bone Dragons. Since the Necromancer's troops are all basically walking corpses, 
 spells such as mind-control, bless, and curse won't work on them.  

 Like the first game, heroes rule over corresponding castles, each with its own distinctive buildings 
 and background jingle ("background overture" might be a better term here, but seriously, who's 
 ever heard of a "background" overture?) . There are a lot more options associated with the castle 
 than there were in the previous Heroes. For example, you can strengthen your castle's defense against 
 enemies by mounting flanking turrets and setting up a moat. Your castle-defenders without long-range 
 weapons can now advance upon attackers by lowering a drawbridge. Also, the new option of purchasing 
 protective phenomena in each castle gives castle-defenders certain advantages over the enemy. Necromancers 
 can create a storm over their castles, offering defenders more spell points; Barbarians can build 
 a coliseum to boost the defending troops' morale. Need all your heroes to go out exploring and 
 somebody else to hold the fort? You can now assign an ad-hoc captain to your castle to baby-sit 
 while you're gone, bestowing upon your defenders the necessary spell powers.   

 Another big change is the addition of upgradable monster dwellings (buildings developed in the castle 
 where you recruited your monsters) . If a Necromancer buys the upgraded Mansion, his Vampires gain 
 more strike points and can transform into bats, flapping over to attack the opposing army on the 
 combat screen; upgrading a Wizard's Cloud Castle transforms ordinary Giants into bolt-throwing 
 Titans. Warlocks can now upgrade their Green Dragons to Black Dragons which arewell, just 
 steer clear of the Black Dragons.   

 The Mage Guild still has to be upgraded to gain access to more powerful spells and there's even 
 a new fifth-level spell available in each guild. Spell memorization found in the earlier title 
 has been replaced with "spell points," which heroes must accumulate and spend as spells are needed. 
 "Spells?" you may ask, as you almost break your neck, swiveling your head with anticipation. Yes, 
 there's a whole horde of new spells at your disposal in Heroes II. New adventure spells, castable 
 while you're on the grand adventure map, include "haunt," which allows you to leave ghost-guardians 
 in the mine of your choice, and "visions," which enables you to determine if any neutral creatures 
 you encounter (such as medusas or genies) will join your ranks. There are also several new spells 
 at the combat level. The "cold ray" lowers the body temperature of a selected stack of enemies 
 to a deathly hypothermic chill; if you want to fight a little rougher, you can activate "chain 
 lightning," knocking down several opponents like a line of dominoes. If you want to be exceedingly 
 rash, you can send a hero in to use "Holy Word" or "Death Wave," universal damage spells which 
 basically transform one of your dispensable heroes into a suicide squad.  

 In describing all the new features, we've overlooked Heroes of Might and Magic II's most striking 
 improvement over the original: the graphics. The colorful animations of the first title, which 
 were intriguing but still a little on the rough side, are now more robust and have higher frame 
 rates. All the new animations - from shambling Zombies, to characters keeling over when killed 
 - add more of an element of realism to the combat sequences.  

 In short, everything that was captivating about the original Heroes of Might and Magic has been 
 improved in Heroes of Might and Magic II. This is a must-have for fans of the first title and will 
 provide an engaging experience for strategy gamers entering the Heroes universe for the first time. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: _gorgon_
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic II is for sure one the game I played the most with friends. You know, 
 two or three friends in one computer for the whole afternoon, playing, joking, killing dragons, 
 betraying each other... just having fun. I mean it when I say is one of the best game experiences 
 I ever had. But this is the multiplayer, because I have to admit that the solo player campaign 
 is slightly boring and quite hard. But anyway, there are game for being played with friends (like 
 PES or Tekken) and this HOMM2 is one of them, so forget the one player campaign. 
  
  You wanna know more about the game? Graphics? Sound effects? Music? Gameplay? the graphics are 
 of course out of date, but who cares when more new games like the fifth part of the saga is much 
 more boring than this one. I really don't care... and for having fun, graphics are not important.
 
  
  My advice, if you have never experienced the pleasure of playing HOMM2 with a couple of friends: 
 experience it! Because is one of the things I still love to do now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Well this is the first heroes of MM game i ever played. Man was i hooked!
  Although it was very hard even on easy, i tried to play the game with no cheats it was hard not 
 to though!
  
  The cartoon style graphics i thought were very well done. the simple gameplay made it easy for 
 beginners like me at the time and picked up gameplay easily. theres a very good variety of monsters/humans 
 you can add t o your army. Perfect amount if you ask me. I also like the 5 character slots better 
 than the newer series which offer freakin 6-8?! thats too much going on! and battles last WAY too 
 long. Sounds are music Midi based so theres nothing special here. and the odd horse trot or taking 
 damage sound effects etc.. pretty bland.
  
  Definately one of the best turn-based games in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWT2008
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I have logged sooo many hours on multiplayer with my buds it is ridiculous. All 
 through middle school we played this game. SUPERB, if not perfect, multiplayer system. Difficulty 
 is perfect, AI is not stupid!! So many times am i frustrated by a mediocre AI system, but not here. 
 They provide a decent challenge, to accompany other human players. Single player is not quite as 
 fun, but still great. I beat the game on both evil and good, good was quite a bit tougher though 
 ;) . Even now, ten years later, i find myself sitting down to a game or two of Heroes 2, especially 
 when my old best friend is in town. We will light a couple bowls and play Heroes 2, civilization 
 2 multiplayer, Starcraft, and Counter-strike. Games like these, that shaped a gaming generation, 
 i hope will never die. These days games take an ecssesive amount of time to learn their gameplay. 
 Time that I just don't have to devote to a game. These new games like warcraft 3, civ 4, and Wow, 
 just take too much time to learn the ins and outs, that its just not worth it for people who have 
 lives outside of the video game world. Oh how i miss those games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emulatorman02
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  A great game for all to play, you'll never be bored in this great game. Recommended as a must have 
 game for all strategy fans and collectors.
  
  The campaigns are astounding and worth hours of fun even if you have done them. The single player 
 games are fun and exciting and full of unexpected twists and turns.
  
  Haven't played the multi-player but it sounds good to use. The map editor is one of the most fun 
 parts of all, maps are great to make its fun because you can let your imagination run wild.
  
  Therefore I give this game a rating of 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheatwarrior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic 2 was ported to the RISC OS platform in 1998 and is still one of the 
 most popular games on the computer platform with new map packs coming out for it every few months! 
 It's a bit sad really that the multiplayer wasn't very good but is still marvelous!
  
  Very addicting yet so fun! If you don't mind loosing precious days of your life playing a computer 
 game then step right ahead and play Heroes of Might and Magic 2!
  
  In my opinion, the best game in the Heroes of Might and Magic series, it may not have the best 
 graphics and sound in the world but the gameplay and value for money with this title is absolutely 
 marvelous! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic was a fine game, and even though it may not appeal to fans of the newer 
 games (particularly Heroes V) it's fun to go back and see how the series began. With Heroes of 
 Might and Magic II: The Succession Wars, New World Computing improved the series in many ways.
 
  
  Heroes II is set some time after the original game, and it assumes that Lord Ironfist the Knight 
 Warlord of the original game was the victor in the War for domination of Enroth. Ironfist recently 
 passed on leaving two sons to claim the throne, the noble and heroic Roland, and the ruthless, 
 evil Archibald. After Archibald orchestrates the deaths of the Seers who would choose the successor 
 to the throne, Archibald accuses Roland of the murders, and Roland is forced to flee. As a former 
 Vassal of King Ironfist, you must choose to serve either Roland, or Archibald as the Succession 
 Wars begin.
  
  Heroes II isn't radically different from the original game. The gameplay still mostly consists 
 of hiring heroes, recruiting units for them, and defeating enemy heroes while conquering enemy 
 towns. NWC followed the If it ain't broke don't fix it idea, and it really paid off. Heroes II 
 has all of the original factions, the Knights, Sorceresses, Warlocks, and Barbarians, along with 
 two new factions; the Wizards and the Necromancers. Both of the new factions add more replayability 
 to the series, and I thought that both of them were unique and well made.
  
  Heroes II brings back the standard game mode, and greatly improved upon it. NWC created some very 
 unique, and interesting story driven scenarios for players to enjoy if they don't like playing 
 campaigns, and can't find any multiplayer games (which would be hard at the present, anyway) . Most 
 of the scenarios are well made, and challenging. You can also create your own maps with the included 
 map editor, and like the windows version of the original Heroes the map editor has an embedded 
 Random Map generator, so you once again have infinite replayability.
  
  The graphics are not all that different from the original Heroes since the sequel uses the same 
 engine. Despite the similarities, Heroes II does some things differently. While the cartoony look 
 remains, the creatures look less fairy tale like, and have more of a pseudo-serious look. I really 
 liked this change myself, for the game looked less silly, but it still kept some charm.
  
  The audio is excellent. The voice acting for the campaign briefings is solid, and the sound effects 
 are pretty much the same ones from the original game, but the music is a wonderful score. Terrain 
 music is very atmospheric, and fits the type of terrain it is connected to very well. Castle themes 
 have opera, and are well done. Unfortunately the battle music isn't anything special.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic II is a fine sequel. It has a single campaign with a lot of nice features, 
 a nice collection of scenarios, and beautiful visuals and audio. There's not much that Heroes II 
 doesn't have, and every turn based strategy fan owes it to themselves to play this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NailBail
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Heroes might and magic II is a fantastic game filled with creatures of different sorts ( from cyclops 
 to elves, from dragons to phoenixes) and the object of the game is to build your army of creatures 
 and defeat the opposing side. You can choose from 6 different leader types ( warlock, wizard, sorceress, 
 necromancer, knight and barbarian) , each having different castles and creatures set to that leader. 
 The sound is amazing, how they manage to use different feels for different terrains ( when you 
 enter a snowy mountain terrain, you could almost feel the temperature drop) . The graphics are fairly 
 well done, as the creature drawings look amazing ( you should see the black dragon, its wicked!) 
 The game play I found very enjoyable, although I think some people might have difficulties with 
 the campaign game, as even on easy it is a challanging game. Since this is a ten year old game, 
 the price is down, so if you see it for $15.00 or so, I recommend that you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilelf3214
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Whoa... BIG improvement from the first one plenty of new units a good decent plot, they 
 also changed the battle maps around and made the maps and worlds bigger alot of other add-ons too. 
 Has everything that the first one had but ALOT more.
  
  Graphics: Not the best, but pretty damn good for its time... the graphics match the whole game 
 really well.. everything is detailed ALOT more compared to the first one and the battle animations 
 are a big improvement. From the whole map to the town then to the individual units could have been 
 a better sequal for its time.
  
  Sound: The music from when your just walking around and when your in a battle it matches really 
 well. The sounds of the environment and when your hero is moving around are really smooth. The 
 sounds from the battle and the individual units are really good from a dwarf or some small weak 
 unit attacking to lets say a titan or a black dragon doing some damage you can feel the difference 
 and it really is satisfying.
  
  Value: heh back then this game was considered a really good deal now you can like get this game 
 for free or really cheap.. It really doesn't deserve less than a 10 in value. I mean i'd pay 5 
 bucks or less for a game like this wouldn't you?
  
  Overall this game is a great sequal to the previous one and i'd recomend this game to fans of the 
 other series or someone just looking for a good game to spend time on.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeafFreelancer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first pc games I have ever played and i fell in love with it. I think its the 
 best in the series it has a good story line and many different characters and abilities. Although 
 it may take awhile to beat maps and finish off your enemies its well worth the hours of game play. 
 I have spent at least 100 hours playing this game its an INSTANT CLASSIC and everyone should have 
 it or at least play it once. You can also create levels which is very easy with the map editor. 
 Heroes of might and magic 2 is a must buy. So I suggest you GO BUY IT IMMEDIATELY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you love any kind of Heroes of Might and Magic youll just fall in love with this 
 part! This game is probably rated number 5 in all of my old school games that I have ever played. 
 I think this part is better than the 4 part of heroes but a little bit worse from the 3 part. But 
 its a true classic game. The game play is the same like in all other Heroes of Might and Magic 
 games. SO if you played the 3 and 4 par of the game you will definitely fall in love with this 
 one. A true masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  The warm and cozy feeling of a medieval village at night, with barely a torch flickering in the 
 warm summer breeze and its tavern stuffed to the brim with drunken peasants enjoying a refreshing 
 drink after a hard day of work left me with a powerful impression. For many months after seeing 
 this picturesque image I continued imagining how great the game behind this image, Heroes 2, was. 
 Finally one autumn afternoon I actually got my first taste of the sweet verboden frukt (forbidden 
 fruit) that is Heroes 2.
  
  Interface aside, Heroes 2 is an astonishingly good looking game. It simply has no competition for 
 a game released in 1996 and it still retains its flavor even after all these years. What really 
 makes it a graphical success though, is the use of style, color and monster design which is paralleled 
 by no other game in this genre. Everything from the castles to the heroes of HOMM2 are expertly 
 drawn and animated: Black dragons spewing out magma-infused destruction, Cyclops with their one 
 eye and slightly limping walk and castle skylines that illustrate the greatness of their tyrannical 
 kings. Despite the fact that the monsters aren't 3D, but rather 2D characters with very sleek animation, 
 they still look good. Creatures are big, richly detailed and colorful, their animation being one 
 among many of the top notch elements of Heroes 2's graphical design. The variety in style for both 
 tile sets and creatures is astounding, ranging from the aforementioned dragons and Cyclopes to 
 trolls, goblins and peasants. The terrain too ranges from the usual fantasy fare (dirt, grass, 
 snow) to more bizarre settings like beaches or magma lands and features the same richly detailed 
 animation as the creatures.
  
  Heroes 2's resolution is also pleasant to the eye. It can't be changed, unfortunately, but there 
 isn't any noticeable pixelation in any of the game's 3 screens. And speaking of screens, the castle 
 screen has undergone some serious modifications. The area of the castle is now bigger and more 
 detailed (as well as more colorful) and the animation is top notch during castle building sequences. 
 Furthermore, despite the huge amount of buildings that can be constructed, nothing feels cluttered 
 together and castle-viewing becomes a pleasure in its own as players can simply waste hours just 
 admiring the castles they forged.
  
  Lastly, Heroes 2 works perfectly on almost any system with hardly a hint of slowdown on anything 
 higher than a 486. There are no framerate issues, no graphical bugs, no clipping and no other such 
 imperfections.
  
  Similarly to the graphics, the music in Heroes 2 is terrific; just like in the rest of the series. 
 The uplifting orchestral pieces, fully accompanied by the high pitched notes of tenors, that play 
 when in the castle view, the satisfying "jingles" that act as background for exploration and the 
 hymns of battle are all stupendous to listen to. The tastefulness of Heroes 2's music is beyond 
 words and the developer's choices for its placement are without error. Not surprisingly, the musical 
 pieces are also of the highest quality and performed by seemingly competent orchestras and tenors.
 
  
  In the sound effects department Heroes 2 fares well, but it could do better. Despite the fact that 
 the howling of the wolf, the battle cry of the orc and the roar of the dragon all sound good and 
 offer a rich, satisfying sound, there are some problems: The biggest of these problems is the quality 
 of the sound which ranges greatly from one creature to another. While a dragon sounds good, a Cyclops 
 sounds horrible by comparison. These differences are mostly concerned with battle sounds (such 
 as screams or roars) and don't affect the clashing of swords or the sizzle of the Cyclops' red 
 gaze, but, never the less they are noticeable enough to detract from the overall feel.
  
  In all my years of playing Heroes 2, there is one aspect of the game I never actually experienced: 
 The story. Ironically, for a game so truly packed with creativity, this is one the weakest points 
 of Heroes 2  I have never actually found out what the story was, even after hundreds of ours of 
 gameplay. Chances are however, than neither will most of the other players since Heroes 2 doesn't 
 exactly feature very enticing campaigns or very appropriate storytelling. The series of missions 
 one goes through isn't all that varied and, unlike in Heroes 3, it's actually a mish-mash of different 
 races, since Heroes 2's campaigns are more generally tied to the scenarios, rather than to the 
 actual sides Furthermore, Heroes 2's campaigns are very difficult and I experienced a horrendously 
 hard time even getting passed the first campaign due to the huge power differences between kingdoms 
 and the limitations with which the player is faced. However, if there is only one defining feature 
 of a Heroes game is that it cannot be judged by its campaigns. Most of them don't allow the player 
 to fully experience the freedom of an open ended scenario, pick his or her nation, and even the 
 victory condition. Luckily, Heroes 2 features a wealth of scenarios that cover all sizes (from 
 Small to Extra Large) , all topics (from kill all opponents to capturing a city) and which have 
 much better, more coherent stories than the actual campaign.
  
  The actual gameplay of Heroes 2 takes the exact same premise as the other games in the series: 
 With the help of a number of heroes, players must achieve their goals while managing resources 
 and troops, acquiring artifacts and experience and fighting neutral monsters as well as enemy factions. 
 To make all of this more manageable, Heroes games have always adopted a 3-screen-approach which, 
 just like it sounds, splits Heroes 2 in three distinct gameplay areas: the map (exploration) , the 
 castle, and the battle.
  
  Heroes 2 brings a slew of changes to all of these screens, starting with the castle screen, where 
 the amount of buildings has been roughly doubled since Heroes 1. Each building requires a specific 
 resource or a number of different resources to build, besides the obvious gold requirement. In 
 addition to the already present buildings like the mage guild, the creature dwellings or the well 
 (population +2) Heroes 2 greatly expands the building choices, with the inclusion of a 5th level 
 for the mage guild, upgradeable creature dwellings, a statue which increases revenue and one specific 
 "faction" building. Faction buildings' bonuses can range from morale to gold bonuses or enhanced 
 attributes. Furthermore, castles can now build moats and defensive structures like turrets or the 
 Captain's Quarters which ensures the presence of a hero-like-thing in the castle at all times. 
 A final addition to the castle system is the new marketplace through which resources can be sold 
 for gold or exchanged for other resources. However, castles still suffer from a very damaging problem 
 in Heroes 2: Regardless of how high their income is, a fully built-up castle (i. e. all dwellings) 
 can NEVER build all the troops that it spawns in a week. This becomes very irritating, very quickly
 
  especially if the scenario is devoid of gold mines or other castles.
  
  The second screen, the map, is where most of the game takes place. On the map heroes explore their 
 surroundings, gather resources (ore, wood, sulfur, gems, crystals, mercury and gold) from small 
 piles sprinkled all over the map, visit buildings where they can receive a number of bonuses, flag 
 mines or castles and fight monsters or enemy factions. The additions brought to the map in terms 
 of gameplay are vast. New World has added more of everything to the map, the detail is greater, 
 and there are more buildings to visit with effects ranging from new skills to more experience or 
 resources. In addition, there are now creature dwellings that spawn faction creatures or markets 
 where resources can be sold. Other small changes were made to the interface to indicate movement 
 restrictions (through a system of arrows, the smaller the arrow the more a hero can move) and a 
 new button that allows a hero to now move to a previously selected location by simply clicking 
 it, rather than pointing out the destination each and every turn.
  
  Prior to discussing the battle screen we have to discuss the hero: The heroes underwent the most 
 radical changes in Heroes 2. In addition to the four primary skills (attack, defense, knowledge 
 and spell power) , which increase randomly with each level, heroes can now acquire a series of secondary 
 skills. Secondary skills have 3 levels of specialty, basic, advanced and expert, and they come 
 in many different flavors. There are dozens of skills to choose from, in either the might, magic 
 or neutral castes. Some skills, like Logistics boost movement rates, while others such as Ballistics 
 and Wisdom are more specific to the might or magic specialties. Another huge change brought to 
 the heroes' system is in the magic department. Heroes no longer learn all the spells, regardless 
 of specialty when entering a castle, they now need the appropriate Wisdom level. More importantly 
 however, heroes now learn the actual spells and, instead of having a limited number of uses for 
 them based on the amount of knowledge they have (say, a hero with knowledge 4 can cast 4 Bless 
 spells) the amount of spells a hero can cast is dictated by mana. This change to the system is 
 very important as it doesn't assume that a level one spell (Bless) is equal in terms of mana as 
 a level 5 spell (Armageddon) .
  
  Obviously enough, these changes have led to new artifacts and structures on the map, along with 
 a few gameplay changes. Heroes can now visit a Witchs Hut in order to learn a new skill, they 
 can now collect virtually DOZENS of new artifacts or they can bribe creatures on the map to join 
 them, granted they have a high enough diplomacy skill. Luck and morale also return in Heroes 2, 
 but they're now more malleable than they were in Heroes. The alignment of troops may help or detract 
 from morale, there are an endless amounts of shrines and fountains to visit which grant either 
 of the two attributes, there are many artifacts which help (or damage) morale and luck, etc.
  
  Artifacts too have undergone some serious restructuring. Players can still acquire a myriad 
 of artifacts ranging from swords, to bows, to pouches of gold or carts of ore, to medals, to cloaks 
 and whatever else that wasnt mentioned, but thats not all. Artifact powers have also been expanded 
 greatly, as a hero can now acquire bonuses like 50% less cold damage, new spells, more movement 
 on land or sea, etc. from artifacts. On the other hand, the system is not perfect. A hero only 
 has 20 slots for artifacts and, as long as an artifact is with a hero, it gets the bonus from it. 
 So, that means that if a hero carries 5 identical swords the bonus is multiplied by 5 times! What's 
 worse though is that if a hero defeats another in combat and he gains some artifacts, he will only 
 store those which he can carry. The problem arises when the first three artifacts the opponent 
 carries are medals that boost morale and the next 10 are all amazingly powerful, unique artifacts 
 that can never be replaced. Those go with the dead hero if his opponent doesn't have the space 
 to carry them.
  
  As far as creatures go, Heroes can still carry only 5 of them but their choices have been quadrupled 
 in Heroes 2. Not only are there 6 races instead of 4, ranging from the regular fantasy faire like 
 Humans to the bizarre, like Necromancers; but these factions can now upgrade their troops. Upgrades 
 come in different shapes or forms and they grant troops enhanced attributes, more damage or more 
 hitpoints, as well as raising their price. Only certain troops can be upgraded though and the bonus 
 differences for some of the upgrades is astounding (upgraded archers get double damage and 2 shots 
 per turn) while for others it's totally negligible. Needless to say that Heroes 2 covers just about 
 every single mythological creature in existence. Everything from titans to peasants or from hydras 
 to elves is included: Heroes 2 features, literally, dozens of creatures. What's more, some of the 
 new creatures have special skills, like the Vampire Lord's blood sucking ability which allows them 
 to revive part of their fallen kin.
  
  After much a due, we finally come to the battle system: Battles in Heroes 2 have undergone heavy 
 changes from Heroes. Obviously the new spells, creatures and experience systems have to be taken 
 into account but that only barely scratches the surface. The newly expanded battlefields and the 
 new siege tactics have to also be taken into account: Thanks to the new moats and the new Ballistics 
 skills the defenses of a castle have to seriously be taken into account, since turrets can do copious 
 amounts of damage and archers behind walls are not damage-restricted, unlike those outside of them. 
 The new battlefields also force players to use their utmost abilities when deciding where to fight, 
 as the physical features of the land are now represented in the battle arenas and their influence 
 in battle is huge. Otherwise, battles have usually remained the same as before, forcing players 
 to chose wisely between which spells to use, which creatures to sacrifice and even when to flee.
 
  
  Since there are no forests without some dead tress however, it's finally time to discuss the problems: 
 Heroes 2's biggest problems arise from balance and from the AI. When discussing the AI, brutal 
 honesty is a must: The AI in Heroes 2 is dead stupid. It's a mere annoyance and, if by some miracle 
 it manages to accumulate enough troops it can prove to be challenging, but otherwise it's a nuisance. 
 The AI will regularly have its heroes prance around flagging already flagged mines; it will split 
 troops so much between its heroes that seeing an enemy hero that poses a challenge becomes a centennial 
 event, etc. Heroes 2s other big problem is balance or the lack thereof. Unlike in Heroes 3 where 
 weaker nations each had their special abilities or had access to virtually twice the units of the 
 stronger ones, in Heroes 2 this is not the case. Thats not to say weaker nations CANNOT spawn 
 more units that stronger ones but the differences in their attributes are absurd (A crusader has 
 90 hitpoints, a dragon 300) . This leads to serious problems as weaker nations can only win the 
 game if they rush other players or if they control half of the playing field in a short period 
 of time.
  
  Luckily though, just like the other Heroes games, Heroes 2's multiplayer doesn't disappoint and 
 thats a relief since most, if not all of the balance problems are solved in multiplayer. Human 
 players know how to tackle different races, who must attack first and who must stand back and build 
 up, and they will never flag the same mine 250 times in the course of the game, like the average 
 AI. The multiplayer can also support up to 6 players in a variety of configurations including Hot 
 Seat and LAN play. There's also an option to play via IP, granted anyone still knows what that 
 is and happens to own a copy of Heroes 2. However, Hot Seat is really the mode of choice for most 
 gamers as its formidably enticing from start to finish and it makes for some extremely tense and 
 nerve-wrecking matches against similarly skilled opponents.
  
  After the calm glow of the village night fades away, and I come back to reality, theres still 
 a chocolaty aftertaste that permeates in my brain: That flavor smells and tastes like Heroes 2, 
 and if it wouldnt be for its idiotic AI and grave imbalances it would be the best TBS game ever. 
 Heroes 2's innovative, easy to learn but impossible to master, it has a great sense of style and 
 it's one of the most complete gaming packages ever. All in all, Heroes 2 is definitely the defining 
 strategy game of the first 3 quarters of the 90s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Special_K411
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2004 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This is my all-time favorite strategy game (Warcraft, eat your heart out! =P ) . Words cannot express 
 how much I like this game... but I'll try. ;)
  
  My entry into the series was with the old DOS Heroes 1. Being familiar with the RPG series. Heck, 
 there was a demo on the Might and Magic Trilogy CD ("Trilogy" contained MM3, 4, and 5, just so 
 you know) . As fun as it was, there were quite a few drawbacks to the experience.
  
  Enter Heroes 2.
  
  This sequel is all that a sequel should be! It addressed practically every 
 flaw or shortcoming the first game had, and added a beefy new set of stuff. On top of that, this 
 game had the best production values in the series, aided in part by the awesome structure for the 
 campaigns (and the cool cutscenes) .
  
  On that note, lets discuss the visuals. IMO, this game looks far better than Warcraft 2 (which 
 were released within the same year) . The visuals somehow managed to balence an extremely fine line 
 between "cartoony" and "awesome." To this day I don't quite understand how that worked. The adventure 
 map was alive and vibrant. It's done so well it practically screams "explore me!" The town screens 
 were a major leap from the original, both beautiful and functional. The battle graphics were perhaps 
 the biggest leap. Not only did they expand the field (no more claustrophobic Heroes 1 battles) , 
 but it was noticable better looking and better animated. You'd almost want to leave it on the normal 
 animation speed, if you weren't in such a rush to get to the meaty gameplay.
  
  Speaking of that, there's lots for you here in the fun department. They fixed a few of the issues 
 with maps in this one. Not only are there different victory/loss conditions (haven't been a fan 
 of timed maps, though) , but the maps are bigger (or smaller) than those of the original. Not only 
 that, some are given a better feel to them. While Heroes 1 seemed a bit repedative and similar, 
 Heroes 2 makes each maps seem more unique. Sometimes you can get lost just exploring them even 
 when you should be trying to finish of an enemy, or something. Also, the way the different factions 
 are done is incredible. Not only are they each so unique, but they are well balenced and each have 
 their own strengths and weaknesses (weaknesses usually being high cost) .
  
  Another leap for this game is the sound. While the sound effects themselves are more functional 
 than anything, the musical score is pure genius! It is in one of my top 10 favorite gaming soundtracks 
 (I don't know where, since I don't rank soundtracks) . They made good use of CD audio to bring an 
 orchestrated soundtrack that adds tremendously to the mood of the game, and it changes with terrain 
 and town screens. Truely fantastic!
  
  The game is beyond words, if the slightly sparadoc setup of my review is any indication. It's the 
 only game in my collection that my brother has borrowed from me and STILL has. Speaking of that, 
 I'll have to snatch it back from him one of these days... -_-
  
  To sum it up, there is one word for this game. "Addictive." Whether that's a good thing or a bad 
 thing is up to you to decide. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
