-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Annihilated Empires
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofannihilatedempires/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Colorful artistic style and strong voice acting.
 Interesting mix of RPG and RTS elements.
 Hundreds and hundreds of units onscreen at any given time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Internet game browser is nonfunctional, forcing you to know your opponent's IP or play via LAN.
 Brain-dead artificial intelligence.
 Only three maps available for skirmish play.
 No easy way to organize and maintain all those units.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 312 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 16, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The colorful presentational coating is tasty, but unfinished features and rotten AI keep Heroes 
 of Annihilated Empires from reaching its potential. 

  It's hard not to wonder how good a hero you are if your empire is annihilated. Yet there's more 
 amiss in GSC Game World's strategy/role-playing hybrid than its awkward title. Heroes of Annihilated 
 Empires is pleasant but inelegant, clumsily cobbling together a mishmash of ideas in a congenial 
 wrapper that's too friendly to hate and too half-baked to love. Every good idea is hobbled by poor 
 execution, yet Heroes exudes an undeniable charm that tries hard to make up for a myriad of shortcomings. 
 But in the end, it's just not enough to overcome broken features and a nagging suspicion that the 
 game simply wasn't ready to be shipped.  

          Onward, Elven soldiers!     

  Heroes of Annihilated Empires comes with a single campaign, and it features the Sylvan folk and 
 the titular hero, Elhant. It's a little odd that there are empty slots in the campaign selection 
 screen, as if there are two other campaigns to unlock. While apparently reserved for the two planned 
 sequels, the slots are more than a little misleading and make the game feel unfinished. Thankfully, 
 the single campaign is likable, even if it's mired in the decades of high fantasy that preceded 
 it. We've all fought the legions of undead with our swords and bows in other games, and there's 
 nothing inherently wrong with the conventional fairies, elves, and dwarves that populate Heroes. 
 But there are hints of greater things to come that remain unexplained, such as the remains of a 
 crashed jet fighter on a mountain top. If you're looking for some kind of intriguing science-fiction/fantasy 
 crossover like the 2001 role-playing game Arcanum, you won't find it here, as the game forces you 
 to wait for the next game in the series to be enlightened. Elhant is a fascinating and impetuous 
 hero, though, and his strong voice acting carries the entire campaign. Yet you can't help but wonder 
 why there are tank remnants in a land of pixies and enchanted forests, and the teasing final scene 
 doesn't help matters.  

  The campaign does a good job of introducing you to Heroes' mixture of real-time strategy and role-playing 
 game gameplay. On the role-playing side, your hero levels up, earns new spells, collects loot, 
 and equips weapons and armor. Leveling is hardly a grind. It happens quickly, and before you know 
 it you'll be earning stat and skill bonuses by killing goblins and zombies. Whenever you level 
 up, you get a few bonuses to choose from, ranging from increases to your attack rate to a larger 
 mana pool. If you don't like the choices, you can also choose to forego a bonus, and at the next 
 level you'll get a more complete list of options. It's an adequate system, but because there is 
 no skill tree to explore or professions to consider, the bonuses feel arbitrary and leveling up 
 doesn't have the same addicting element that it would in a true RPG.  

  The strategy elements feel a little more fleshed out. Heroes of Annihilated Empires' claim to fame 
 is that it supports approximately one zillion units onscreen at a time. Even in the first missions, 
 you'll be attacked by swarms of the undead, and you'll be churning out hundreds and hundreds of 
 your own units. Controlling all of them is a handful, yet the game does only a half-hearted job 
 of helping you maintain your army. On one hand, you can set a building to continually produce a 
 given type of unit, which is incredibly useful. On the other hand, there's no way to select idle 
 workers and give them an appropriate chore. Additionally, while most modern-day RTSs do not include 
 workers when you drag a selection box around units, Heroes does. Don't be surprised if you send 
 your fragile worker fairies off with your centaurs by mistake. It's frustrating that a game with 
 so many units doesn't make it easier to organize them.  

  When everything runs on all cylinders, it's good fun to send out a gang of golems or a mob of druids 
 to confront the enemy forces head on. Encounters like these are chaotic in a good way, even if 
 they require little in the way of real strategy. Battles boil down to throwing your big mess of 
 units at your enemy's big mess of units, and then sending your hero in to clean it all up with 
 a few spells. Yet as cool as it is to see all those tiny units swarming across your screen, it 
 also makes it easy to notice just how brain-dead the artificial intelligence is. Sometimes, entire 
 collections of units will try walking through a mountain to get to you and will continue to shuffle 
 in place when you send another group in behind them. Other times, you will approach a cluster and 
 they just sit there without so much as an idling animation, almost Zen-like in their stillness. 
 It goes without saying that they won't try any fancy maneuvering like flanking; when the AI does 
 function, the enemy just rushes you en masse.  

  The friendly AI is also wildly inconsistent. Your own units may take an unannounced lunch break 
 during battle, choosing to watch from the sidelines. This behavior seems to mostly plague melee 
 units, and it serves to highlight Heroes' biggest balancing issue: Ranged attacks are generally 
 much more effective than close attacks, so a jumble of archers gets you farther than a jumble of 
 swordsmen. And sometimes the combinations of poor AI make for problems so disastrous it's a wonder 
 some missions made it past testing. For example, at one point you must kill a boss wizard who occasionally 
 hurls a ghostly skull towards you. Attacking with your bow does only one point of damage, and you're 
 meant to use your sword. Using it means you have to try to continually move out of the wizard's 
 way to avoid his attack, but the overzealous hero AI keeps forcing your hero to rush after him, 
 making the mission overly difficult. In the meanwhile, the wizard isn't smart enough to figure 
 out that his skeletal projectile can't fly through objects. Thankfully, arrows can. The best solution 
 to the frustrating task? Shoot arrows through solid rock, whittling him down one point at a time 
 and turning the tough challenge into a cakewalk.  

  Outside of the campaign, you can also play the same artificial unintelligence in a skirmish match. 
 Yet the game only ships with three maps, which means there are more playable skirmish races than 
 there are game environments. You can play as the elves from the single-player campaign again, or 
 choose the Mechanicians, Cryo, or the undead. The Mechanicians and Cryo sound cool but are just 
 sand dwarves and ice dwarves, respectively. What makes skirmishes fascinating is that you can take 
 the RPG route, play the match as an RTS, or work out a combination of the two. You start the game 
 with your hero and can summon worker units to begin building a base -- but if you do, the hero is 
 frozen for an entire 30 minutes. Alternately, you can level up your hero and purchase the favors 
 of nearby tribes, who will then ignore you but attack your enemy. They're both viable ways of playing, 
 and the balancing is pretty good in spite of the potential difference in play styles.  

  Of course, you may prefer to play with another human being. Good luck with that. Heroes of Annihilated 
 Empires works just fine over a local network, and it also lets you connect with a remote player 
 via IP address. However, there's an intriguing "Internet game" option in the menu that even requires 
 you to enter a game-box ID to create an online account. Choosing the option results in a screen 
 that looks like an Internet game browser, but it doesn't actually function and eventually times 
 out with a message that you are unable to connect with the server. The server browser will presumably 
 be used in the future, but as of press time, it's busted.  

  Much of the game's appeal lies in the pretty and colorful land of Aquador, even if it isn't that 
 technically impressive. The maps feature vibrant foliage, intricate architecture, and an obvious 
 Tolkien-esque vibe. Units aren't very detailed, nor do they have a lot of animations, but the engine 
 renders hundreds upon hundreds of them at a time with only the occasional drop in frame rate. Some 
 of the spell effects are decent, although the majority of them are decidedly underwhelming. That 
 mostly has to do with the nosebleed view the camera gives you. You can zoom in and out a tad, but 
 even at the closest zoom level, you feel distanced from the action and much of the artistic beauty 
 goes wasted.  

          I hope you don't mind -- I brought a few friends over.     

  A lot of credit for the world's allure goes to Elhant's strong voice-over. Most of the voice acting 
 is quite good, with some hammy exceptions here and there. However, there is a gigantic and glaring 
 flaw in the sound design: If you escape out of a conversation, the voice-over continues. In the 
 case of the more laborious dialogues, like those with the slow-talking tree creatures, you'll move 
 on to battle while the lengthy conversation plays out. Add in the generic soundtrack and repetitive 
 cries from the dying forest folk, and you may be tempted to turn off the sound from time to time, 
 just to give your ears a rest.  

  There's still something strangely compelling about Heroes of Annihilated Empires, with its throngs 
 of units and an original take on the RPG/RTS mixture. But as good as it wants to be, it's crippled 
 by its terrible artificial intelligence, poor multiplayer options, and half-baked design and story 
 elements that make the game feel unfinished. It may be worth a passing glance to strategy fans 
 looking for something different, but most players will find that playing hero to an obliterated 
 kingdom isn't all that fulfilling.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ejaz_Flamex
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 5:27 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I've ever played. This game is indeed hard to describe. The graphics are 
 one side, so beautiful that you'll adore the environments. Sounds especially the campaign voice 
 overs are really cheesy sometimes but others are true to life... Also the game is extremely modder 
 friendly and there is a small community for it as well, so troubles with maps, bugs etc can all 
 be fixed. Sols are another race that needs modding to unlock and thus the overall value for money 
 is perfect. Story is one of the most interesting part, though it would be sad without a sequel 
 to complete it.....
  
  Tanks vs Dragons is a nice theme but RPG vs RTS is more nice and simply it puts Warcraft and Spellforce 
 to a doom rest! The balance could be a whole lot better, but still doesn't hinder game mechanics 
 overall the experience is hard to describe.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immortal_87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  The score of 6 is just ridiculous for this game. Broken AI? C'mon, what's wrong with the AI - computer 
 player is growing, bulding a base and units, attacking. Of course it's not the best out there, 
 but it is far from broken.
  Exactly which part of the game all of you didn't like? 
  -It has acceptable history
  -long missions
  -lost of units, terrains, items, spells 
  -unique 
 races
  -lot of detail and colours - the game is amazingly beautiful, with cool animated portraits of the 
 units.
  -good CG movies and art between missions
  
  The next thing which amazes me - the game looks cartoonish and such?! It is fantasy, it is normal 
 to look that way. What about Red Alert 3 which simulates real-world war game and all unist looks 
 like Lego and uses fantasy-game engine? Wouldn't it be better if it looker like Company of Heroes? 
 Or - it is not innovative. How many of nowadays games are ? Don't get picky about that.
  
  The main issues aren't all that bad, except maybe the balance. It is too difficult at moments or 
 too easy. Unit control lacks sometimes, but its not fatal. Voice acting isn't first class, neighter.
 
  
  In conclusion my opinion about Heroes of Annihilated Empires is very good. I didn't expect russians 
 to come out with that kind of product. It si definitely worthwhile if you are not prejudiced.
 
  
  Go ahead and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  As you can tell by the header, I clearly disliked this game.
  
  The game is centered around the story of Elhand and his quest to save the world from Zombi's that 
 have taken over. He has to fight not only Zombi's but also Wearwolves, Sphinxes, Unicorns and all 
 types of mythical creatures.
  
  Pro: The fact that you can upgrade your unit without limits and with so many combinations of upgrading 
 is fantastic. You keep picking up items that you can use to upgrade the hero. Some of the upgrades 
 also have a negative impact on your status. So where you get extra health, you might loose your 
 speed.
  
  The landscape is well designed and there is a lot of detail put into the game.
  
  Cons: Where do I start. The bad acting through the seriously dull campaign. OMW! It will drive 
 you up the walls.
  
  The Graphics is not supported with the newer Hard ware as always and you can't fix that. 
  
 
  Even though you have Fog of war, you can still see the rest of the stage and units by just scrolling 
 over the foggy parts. You will be able to see exactly what your enemy is doing
  
  Lack of training. There is no training. So I can't complain about it. You're dropped into the game 
 with no clue what to do. You pick things up and figure it out yourself. In that waste a lot of 
 time figuring out how the game works.
  
  Character design is pathetic. Everything looks like clay figures mushed together.
  
  This list 
 can go on for a while still, but I think I have made my point!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atiz1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  this is a good game with very catching sceens, but i think what lack is the more buildings and 
 more should be the animation with buildings, though these look alive but still buildings need more 
 attention, the heroe chracter is good but no change after changing there weapon. all the time they 
 look same. anyway there must be more spells and more things to be added to grow your teritory, 
 even though its a worth plying game. there must be availability of three heroes at a time, and with 
 upgradation of nation as well. at the last there must be a supper unit for each nation which fears 
 the enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eligarak
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 28, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  What we have here is basically another fantasy RTS clone, with not much originality, not enough 
 novel features to compensate for appaling gameplay. I admit right from the intro and the first 
 mission which throws you into combat the game is instanly loveable and charming, despite lack of 
 new ideas, but hey it's the problem of most fantasy RTS games. The feeling and the ambience of 
 the world is great, I think it's slightly too cartoonish, but the charm is there! The graphic engine 
 is a bit disappointing, but it does the job of supporting many hundreds of units. The main hero 
 is quite an attractive character, and I definitely like the rpg elements, because I am not a huge 
 fan of endlessly going from map to map and building, training, gathering, upgrading, researching. 
 Unfortunately the rpg element is just not serious enough, there's only a few skills to increase, 
 no branching tree of skills and professions, like for example in the Elder Scrolls. It's really 
 hard to love a game when it's basically a variation on the Elf campaign of Warcraft III while the 
 latter does it much better and there are three other campaigns. The orks are practically copied 
 from Warcraft. Now it is hard to invent something new, but it is possible: different colour skin, 
 different types of units, different type of armour, for example the dark and menacing leather armour 
 and you got a new type of orc creature. The undead just fail to be scary and in fact all of the 
 units do a poor job of being CONVINCING and they really lack good sounds as well.
  Gameplay is just poorly done and thought out. There's no remapping of keys which is really annoying, 
 no quick save option like ctrl-s, no controlling the game, which gets tediously slow when you have 
 to run around the map to complete objectives or send a ship over in one of the missions to destroy 
 undead fortress to recruit pegasi. It's ridiculous to be able to build one carrier and one attack 
 ship only. It's also a ridiculous end of the mission two pegasi can destroy an enemy fortress, 
 while all the forces of darkness can't do anything about two pegasi. It's just not a convincing 
 end of a mission. In fact strategically this games is dead in the water, you best off throwing 
 the lot of your units into battle, destroy key buildings and keep using different magics. There 
 are not strategic options or means of controlling your army, like formations and maneuvers, all 
 of these are really needed for a game with these many units! In the end the game's gameplay gets 
 old and annoying pretty fast and after fourth mission it just seems like a waste of time and challenge 
 to sanity to play this charming, but brain-dead, hard to control, user-unfriendly game. Big disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gorgon_
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 4, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Annihilated Empires is a excelent mix of RPG, RTS and action game. Maybe It is not a 
 great RPG or a good RTS (of course not) , but at the end, when both genres are mixed in the game, 
 the effect is good... and a lot of another games can't say the same. Now, let's analyze point by 
 point the game.
  
  -Gameplay: excellent. The gameplay not even is easy handled but it is very fun. Yeah, the game 
 is very fun to play. I really enjoy when I'm seeing Elhant killing hundreds and hundred of undeads.
 
  -Graphics: did someone say that the game has bad graphics? I think they are really good. The field 
 is simply beauty, and the characters are not the Oblivion's ones, but are still good. Moreover, 
 the comic parts of the game have a great style.
  -Sound: I admit the music of the game is not brilliant, but it do his mission. The sound effects 
 are not specially good and the dubbing is not good at all (speciall mention for my Spanish version, 
 that has one of the worst dubbing acts of all time) .
  - Value: I didn't stop the game till I beated it. And this could be... a lot of funny hours. Anyway, 
 the game has a skirmish mode that adds a few more hours of gameplay... but I have to say that this 
 skirmish mode is booooring.
  - Tilt: when I start playing this game I think It was some kind of Heroes of Might and Magic game 
 (I love this saga) ... but the truth is that One player Campaign of HoAE is very much funnier than 
 all of the HoMM.
  
  Well... that's all. HoAE is a very good solo game... but also a bad multiplayer game. I don't care 
 about the multiplayer. ^__^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  As one of the two people worldwide who enjoyed Alexander for PC, I can say with confidence Heroes 
 takes the formula and perfectly adapts it into a fantasy realm and adds spectacularly-colorful 
 graphics and landscapes. Unfortunately, it also seems to have inherited Alexander's shortcomings 
 as well.
  
  Alexander's and Heroes' biggest selling points is the ability to launch hundreds of soldiers into 
 battle, and even to set an option on buildings to continually produce units, which is handy and 
 limits the micromanagement. Sadly, battles with two thousand units are chaotic mosh pits of bad 
 artificial intelligence attempting to sort out who to attack next - while his peer kills the enemy, 
 forcing the original soldier to pause again and sort out his strategy. Additionally, having this 
 many units in battle takes away the power of battle - which is seemingly the reverse of what one 
 would expect. Battles simply do not have structure and consist simply of thousands of units colliding 
 and hammering away until one emerges the victor. Paralleling the battle difficulties and ultimately 
 proving the biggest fault of Heroes is the paltry-at-best AI. As with most fantasy RTS games, there 
 are mines, trees, huts, and various random structures placed around the world which are guarded 
 by static creatures which, when killed, yields some type of bonus. In Heroes, these NPC enemies 
 are truly static - soldiers must physically assault them to force a battle. Whole armies can march 
 right through a bunch of fifty of these creatures and they won't budge an inch. Also, the enemy's 
 tactics are that of an eight year old's: fling groups of a hundred or two against enemy until crushed. 
 Too bad a hundred or two soldiers will do nothing against a standing army of two thousand.
  
  Despite the bad or overlooked features, Heroes is a blast to play and look at. The rush of 
 sending a long-built army of several thousand -including infantry, cavalry, archers, etc.- against 
 the enemy is glorious. Even if they don't use tactics, in order to successfully destroy their base 
 some kind of strategy is a must. And the detail packed into the fields of play is simply amazing. 
 Spell effects are fantastic and colorful, and everything in the game is vibrant and stunning to 
 look at.
  
  In the end, Heroes falls short of gaming greatness, but it does pack in many hours of fun gaming. 
 If the developers had spent more time correcting Alexander's faults (one of which I did not mention 
 was unit's ignorance of fauna - they will simply walk through trees and brush which is annoying 
 - Alexander was more obvious because hills and cliffs were nii) , Heroes would have achieved said 
 greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: givemethepatch
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The obvious parts first:
  
  If you are a graphics whore, you will have reason to hate this game. With slightly better than 
 diablo 2 detail on the main character, and passible graphics on larger units like the Treant, this 
 game is not for those who want unbelievable eyecandy in their video games. If you want RTS battles 
 that are about tactics and good force construction, you will have reason to hate this game. I believe 
 there are more ways to play a compelling game of 'connect four' than there are tactical interactions 
 between troop types in this game, and it is overly decided by numbers per side. If you want RPG 
 elements that are beyond tired and overused plot devices, like lost relics that can turn the balance 
 of power and the obvious hero likes the girl but doesn't realize it right away angle, you won't 
 find them here. This game, however, is greater than the sum of the things it tries to be. It isn't 
 a good RTS, RPG or visually appealing game, and the gameplay does lack better options for controlling 
 troops, and selecting troops. That said, however, there is a quality to this game that makes it 
 playable, though certainly not a standout in any way except for the lack of single genre playstyle. 
 This isn't a title you want to buy at release prices, certainly, but it would be a decent game 
 at 14.99 or 19.99. The largest disappointment was the lack of further unlockable campaigns once 
 you'd beaten the sylvan campaign. Poor choice to not include them, or release the game before they 
 were finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugzilla2001
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the demo I've decided to get the game. It has an art style that is unique. 
 It's weird but this game actually looks like a tabletop wargame that's moving on it's own. I also 
 like the massive battles and the ability to choose RTS or RPG style of play. I had alot of fun 
 with my uber-character blowing away hordes of enemies. The pace can seem a little slow and often 
 the difficulty of the enemies is outrageous, but I'm looking forward to playing the rest of it 
 and want to support the game to ensure the sequels get made so I can see dragons fighting jets. 
 (I had that idea a while ago) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcerok
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Having played the game and read some online reviews of this title I know I am not supposed to like 
 this game but... I do. I generally find RTS's dull as the computer can make buildings and churn 
 out units a lot faster than a human can. Most RTS's don't require much intelligence in this regard. 
 An RPG on the other hand can involve a lot of decision-making on the part of the player that sucks 
 the player into the game a lot more. Here Heroes of Annihilated Empires shines, at least relative 
 to an RTS game. Granted the choice of picking an increase in attack power, attack speed, more hp/mana, 
 or hp/mana max, or attack or run speed, or higher defenses may seem anti-climatic but as you are 
 leveling rapidly to L100+ while battles are going on it makes it possible to do it while keeping 
 the action going. By chosing various equipment items for what seems like 20+ item slots you can 
 further customize your character to make them good at what you most like to do, wether that is 
 wading into an army and cutting it to pieces, shooting and kiting monsters, or blowing stuff up 
 with big area spells. When I say I have fun playing this game I have to include the following disclaimer: 
 the game's content is fairly limited. You might have a lot of fun playing this game but even if 
 you play a skirmish game with each of the 12 heros (all are different, though only a few are truly 
 unique like the undead ranger which is a fast melee'er with life draining ability for instance) 
 and you play the entire campaign through once you are only maybe talking 30 hours of gameplay. 
 This is no Medieval Total War 2. If you are looking for value look elsewhere. If you don't have 
 a lot of time for gaming and you want something that is a lot of fun while it lasts, or you have 
 some big games like Civ4, MTW2, etc and just want some fast action this is a great option.
  
  I read Kevin's review and while you can trick the AI I really didn't find that different than 
 most other games in the genre and with literally 300 units per minute swarming my base at times 
 I really didn't have time to worry about wether I could shoot through a tree or such. This is more 
 of a bear-and-pretzels game with rich graphics and fast gameplay. I would like to add that I used 
 Steam to buy this title and that worked out great as I saved a trip to the store, I didn't have 
 to pay sales tax (pretty high where I live) , and I don't have to worry about finding where my girlfriend 
 put my DVD since you don't need one with the Steam version. Download and install was fast and painless. 
 Sarcerok
  Former Senior Writer @ www. unknownplayer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Any gamer should see massive warning flags and hear sirens when the high point of a game is described 
 as being the number of units seen onscreen. Certainly HoAE does manage to have boundless units 
 ready to be mismanaged through it's inherently clumsy and outdated interface, but given the quality 
 of the graphics and unit detail is this really an accomplishment? Especially having played LOTR 
 II which had zerg numbers on screen with hot-cha graphics this game just suffers by comparison.
 
  
  There really is shockingly little to redeem this quasi RTS/RPG. As I intimnated before, the ability 
 to control these massive unit hordes is pitiful, clumsy, and would be lethal in online skirmishes 
 if playing online were not being thrown back to the age of modem to modem phonecalls to play DoomII 
 in HoAE. Given the last decade or so of RTS development you have to wonder just what rock GSC was 
 hiding under that they missed basic innovations such as servers and unit control .
  
  For anyone drawn into the high fantasy setting... go play any other game in the genre. Go play 
 Warcraft I. The friendly unit and enemy AI were certainly better in Warcraft I... and in C&amp; C... 
 and Dune for ****'s sake. It's very hard toi reccomend a game with mediocre graphics, poor control, 
 virtually no online play coupled with brain dead AI, and a story that at best could be described 
 as Well, at least the narration is good. To be blunt, this game isn't broken, but it doesn't work 
 either. There is no reason to ever play HoAE instead of a 10 year old RTS (unless your goal in 
 life is to see legions of tiny poorly detailed elves astride the field... then I suppose this is 
 what you've been waiting for) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthood1980
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Yes this game is overrated. I bought the game without reading any reviews or played the demo. It 
 was a simple impulse buying day at Wal-Mart. The game intrigued me. Anyways, good graphics and 
 love the rotate the map around view. However unit selection is not very smooth. For example, the 
 workers/builders are hard to select and control. You really have to micromanage them. It's good 
 that they can auto gather, but you not really sure what resource they are gathering. This is espeically 
 true in skirmish mode.
  
  I finished the game in one and half days. Looking for the big bang finish to the story line. But 
 the game ended in whimpers. I guess GSC is doing the Halo 1, 2, 3.... ect kinda thing and dragging 
 the game story line over many many more games to come to suck my money dry. I was really looking 
 forward to see the tank and the jet fighter the game bolstered about. But the only tanks and jet 
 fighters were part of the landscape. Very disappointed. After the campaign, the skirmish is okay. 
 Take way too long for the hero to get into action, and way too hard to level alone without building 
 any nation or army. Either way I read most of the reviews and I consider this game to be way overrated. 
 Nice graphics, disappointing story line, nothing speical about the RTS once the campaign is completed. 
 Overall this game feels like one of the Customize maps from WarCraft III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rokushoax
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  Well, I chose this game for my first ever review cause it just provoked me after playing it, but 
 enough of this, you're not here to know about me, you're here for the review.
  
  When I first heard of this game as the demo was released, they advertised tanks + fantasy war and 
 I was intrigued. Then I downloaded the game and had a candy bag of reactions, a little nougat and 
 a little chocolate.
  
  First off, the music was great, and the graphics had a nice unique fantasy look, very cool.
  
 Then after a few minutes, the game itself was playing a little slow and was kinda hard to finish, 
 congrats to those who did.
  My final thoughts of the demo was I'll wait till some poor sod plays the game and then I'll see 
 what he says 
  
  But then again, this isn't a review of the demo is it? When I went to the local shop and picked 
 up the game, I was a bit doubtful, now that I had played it, it's final, this game is great, it 
 may not sport next-gen graphics (thank god for me, I don't have a spanking com) but it does have 
 substance, and the gameplay seems faster compared to the demo, good job guys, you've done a great 
 job on the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteking
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Every skirmish you begin with the option of playing an RPG or RTS game. You start with a hero who 
 you can travel around with killing of hurds of orcs, gnolls, bears and such to gain XP and find 
 new items and spells. Your hero starts with one specific spell that can turn him into stone and 
 give you villagers, this will make you play RTS. Either way you choose it is surprisingly balanced. 
 If you consistantly kill guys with your hero, you will be able to level up fast enough to defeat 
 enemy armies sent your way. The spell effects look great, plus there is an extremely large variety 
 of items and spells. I didnt expect a game with both RTS and RPG to have them both be so deep and 
 in depth. The RTS style is a little sloppy and it doesnt help that you have to build such large 
 numbers of villager type units, but it is extremely enterataining to send in armies of 100s or 
 even 1000s. The biggest plus of the RTS style is the fact that there are no limitations on anything 
 you want to build, it just becomes extemely expensive. For instance you may only be able to build 
 one type of super-unit per building and every time you build the same building the price doubles. 
 Even though the RTS is very enjoyable to play, it doesn't compare to the highly addictive RPG style. 
 There are different buildings around each map where you can buy/sell potions, spells, items, you 
 name it. Like I said, I was extremely surprised that the RPG was literally a full blown RPG experience 
 everytime you play. You may ask how a single character can defeat armies of 1000s. You have to 
 hire hurds of orcs or gnolls to join your fight. You don't control these armies, but they continually 
 build up and send attacks to your enemy. The RPG is extremely well done and this game is very enjoyable 
 to play against the computer as they build up hurds of armies to send to your leveling up character. 
 I suggest people give this one a try and dont turn it down too soon because it is different from 
 many other new RTS games.
  
  After playing this game for a while it does get old quick. RPG style is the same everytime so it 
 just gets tiring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prima1
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, you mix a game like lord of the rings, and take some extras out, modify a little bit, change 
 the graphics, and wolla you get this. In game you can chose camping or skirmish, if you play for 
 the first time skrimish, you will se that the controls are simillar to any other strategy game.
 
  Opponents are set to the difficulty Normal and Hard, so it's kinda just right, but still for the 
 first time player, easy would be a better choice...
  
  Must say that the music was cool, it fitted the scene very good, sound effects could be more cinematic 
 effect , as i can say.
  
  The graphics isn't that good, same goes for the camera view. I didn't find the zoom , just rotate 
 left and right.
  
  Units are hm.... how could i say, well just not good.
  
  I don't recommend this game for any players who have played games like: LOTR, Total war, etc.. 
 This is a kind of a game for the just the little kids.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Annihilated Empires is a Good mix of Real Time Strategy and Role Playing Mechanics. Story 
 starts with a very good cinematic in which elves are fighting with undead, and undead came out 
 victorious, and suddenly something happens and a bright light consumes the undead leader.
  After that , all of the story progresses in a comic strip style pictures, in which all the dialouges 
 are written in word ballons.
  Interface looks a little bit difficult in start, but it will be handy later on in game, especially 
 the Ctrl + unit built menu command which creates infinite number of units for any given time.
 
  You do have a zoom in out capability but map rotation is a serious no no.
  Game plays fine , maps are detailed, lush green backgrounds, water, ravaged mountains and likes 
 of that.
  What I really like about this game is that , if you kill the leader or the mage, your opponents 
 army gets crippled or run away from the battle, otherwise, believe me, the enemies keep on coming 
 towards you.
  All in all, this game tries to be the SpellForce 2, but lack a little bit, but nonethe less, this 
 game is enjoyable. and worth your $. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keshy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 + Heroes of Might and Magic series + Cossaks + Great Story + Stunning visuals + A lot 
 of playing time = Heroes of Annihilated Empires.
  I'm not a fan of RTS or RPG. I'm not even playing games anymore, my friend recommended me this 
 game and its very good. While building army and defending ur city you get experience, everytime 
 you level-up you get a choice to improve your heroes stats. through the game you find items or 
 buy em in the shop, u can also buy spells ( excellent spell system in the game) . It has few things 
 that would remind u of old classics, but don't get me wrong. There's no game like it. Definately 
 worth playing! Instant Classic ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aanjan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  In the intro movie when a guy blows the horn it indicated the begining of the war. But when the 
 game started i thought i blew my money along with it too. The game was kind of bad in the begining 
 but it turned out to be great some time. You dont have to build many buildings and create large 
 armies all the time. That's why i liked this game very much. You get to play an elf but can take 
 control of few other characters as well. The graphics is a pleasure to watch especially the reflections 
 on the water. Hordes of enemies like mummies, skeletons will attack at once.
  The sound in almost perfect. Some drawbacks is that a spell cannot be use over and over. It has 
 to replenish and then only it can be used. The camera cannot be zoomed too much. And btw, there 
 is no tutorial . You gotta learn it all by yourself and that aint too difficult either. This game 
 is a mixture of all other rts's available till now. Overall, the game is pretty good and can be 
 played by both rts fans and the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvrd
Rating: 3.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  I've just played two skirmish games (one with each race available in the demo) and I have to say 
 as a big RTS fan that this is the worst game in the genre I've ever played (and I have tried many) .
 
  
  -Gameplay-
  Units doesn't do what you tell them to so forget micro possibilities. When I attack-moved my units 
 they did not attack enemies in the way. When I set a rally point from a building all units coming 
 out of it walked to some other place first before proceeding to the rally point. When i finished 
 building an apple tree, (yes, an apple tree) which the elves' worker unit gather food from, the 
 workers close to it gathering in a mine automatically switched to the apple tree. To put it shortly; 
 units will do what they want.
  
  -Graphics-
  Sure, it looks pretty nice on the screens but it's really not working. It's small and grainy and 
 probably bad for your eye sight. The interface is small, indistinct and confusing.
  
  -Sound-
  The music is ok but the loop in the demo was a bit short and repetitive. Sound effects 
 are really weak and sound like something made with a $30 keyboard.
  
  If you are an avid RTS/RPG/Strategy gamer or a person who like well designed games, stay away from 
 this. With Frozen Throne, Dawn of War The Dark Crusade and Heroes of Might and Magic V on the market 
 who needs this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfox62
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I keep checking for reviews for this game and i can't believe i never find any. If you like RTS 
 this is a fantastic game.
  
  For a start, it works! ... you can't say that about many games released these days.
  
  The 
 graphics are very colorful and are pleasing to the eye. The gameplay is no pushover and it sounds 
 great, awsome music.
  
  The whole thing reminds me of Warcraft combined with Heroes of Might and Magic. I like the fact 
 that i can choose to character build my hero or start base building. It's all very tactical, more 
 so than many other RTS games i could name.
  
  Most of all, i like the pace of the game.
  
  The four races are all unique and are fun to play as. Lastly i have to give credit to the single 
 player campaign. It feels more like the Lord of the Rings than some of the official games!
  
  Put simply ... It needs to be played. I would like to hear what others have to say as i feel 
 it's being overlooked. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
