-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic III: Armageddon's Blade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightandm3ab/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 639 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its longer, more complex campaigns and enhanced map editing features seem better suited to zealous 
 Heroes fanatics than to casual fans. 

 Though the Armageddon's Blade expansion for Heroes of Might and Magic III sports a number of new 
 features and a sizeable cache of new maps in the form of six complete campaigns and a whopping 
 38 standalone scenarios, it's essentially more of the same - much more. With the exception of the 
 new elemental conflux town type, which is interesting enough in its own right and decidedly different 
 from the existing towns, the expansion's new gameplay options make additions that are subtle rather 
 than revolutionary. And its longer, more complex campaigns and enhanced map editing features seem 
 better suited to zealous Heroes fanatics than to casual fans.  

 The story behind Armageddon's Blade's main campaign follows both Heroes of Might and Magic III and 
 Might and Magic VII. Catherine and Roland are forced to violate the peace of Erathia and declare 
 war against the demon King Lucifer Kreegan, who has deployed his minion Xeron to gather three of 
 the most powerful artifacts in existence in order to assemble the titular Armageddon's Blade. The 
 expansion also includes four other campaigns, each championed by a different hero, and an exceptionally 
 difficult sixth "prequel" campaign, which chronicles the adventures of a young Sir Christian long 
 before the Restoration of Erathia.  

 Each prepackaged map is packed with treasure, enemies, and quest objects. Devoted Heroes players 
 will likely dive into each carefully designed level with gusto, spending hour after gleeful hour 
 pointing and clicking away at every tiny, colorful object they can find. Players so captivated 
 will probably be able to overlook the fact that Armageddon's Blade looks and sounds almost identical 
 to Heroes III. With the exception of the conflux town's single new musical theme, (which sounds 
 suspiciously similar to the Wizard's town theme from Heroes II) ; some new cutscenes; and a handful 
 of new unit, artifact, and hero-portrait graphics, there is absolutely nothing new to see or hear. 
 Then again, the artwork generally looks as good as it did when Heroes III was first released. It's 
 as colorful, detailed, and stylized as ever - and as an added bonus, every single creature from 
 the previous Heroes games (except the horrendously overpowering ghost) has returned, either as 
 a conflux unit or a neutral creature.  

 One of the few truly new things about the expansion is the elemental conflux town, whose denizens 
 include the long-lost sprites and phoenixes, and the formerly neutral elementals of Heroes III 
 (along with an entirely new addition - the psychic/magic elemental) . The strongest creature in 
 the conflux, the phoenix, is as fabulously powerful as ever, and it reclaims its rightful place 
 as the fastest creature in the entire game. As such, scrambling up the tech tree to reach the phoenix 
 seems worthwhile, but it is terribly costly in terms of turns and resources. Consequently, the 
 meat of the conflux's forces is the five different elementals, which collectively represent what 
 the game's manual describes as an "emphasis on creatures of mid-range power." Each elemental is 
 characterized by certain specific weaknesses and corresponding strengths in the form of magical 
 immunities. These immunities provide some intriguing strategic possibilities, especially when complemented 
 by the proper spells and artifacts. Thus the conflux town may appeal to more patient players, since 
 carefully managed war parties, consisting of a mid- to late-game buildup of elementals and led 
 by a hero whose spells are specifically tuned to play off the specific magical immunities of his 
 army, are formidable indeed. Unfortunately, through the first half of a game, elementals are little 
 more than a colorful pack of melee grunts, whose limited movement points and middling attack power 
 are anything but interesting.  

 The expansion has a number of new gameplay features, none of which has any kind of earthshaking 
 impact on overall play. For instance, after upgrading a creature generator, you may recruit creatures 
 of both the upgraded and base type. However, since the vast majority of creatures are flat-out 
 superior when upgraded, this option is seldom useful unless you're low on funds and can't afford 
 to hire the upgraded versions. You may also garrison your own creatures at mines you've captured, 
 which doesn't radically change the overall dynamic of exploring the map and claiming resources, 
 but does add a more subtle facet to resource management, overall. There are also new and improved 
 quest objects: quest gates, seer's huts, and border gates, which were presumably included to enhance 
 the story of the campaigns, though for the most part the quests they offer are still of the errand-boy 
 variety.  

 If you aren't content with the prepackaged maps - perhaps you disagree with the endearingly infuriating 
 placement of treasures just out of sight behind other landmarks - or you've played through all 
 the included maps and want more, you can turn to Armageddon's Blade's improved mapmaking utilities. 
 The expansion makes two impressive additions to Heroes III's already robust map editor. The first 
 is the new random-map generator, which lets you create a random map using several generalized parameters. 
 Though the customization options seem sparse, the randomly generated maps are anything but. Rather 
 than consisting of nothing more than a haphazard few critters and the odd bit of booty, each randomly 
 generated map is usually stuffed with monsters, treasures, and events, laid across natural-looking, 
 proportional terrain, and each is more than adequate for a satisfying quick-and-dirty scenario 
 on the fly. The second addition to the map utilities is the campaign editor, which lets you string 
 individual scenarios together into cohesive campaigns. Using the campaign editor is a far more 
 time-consuming pursuit than creating single maps, but it's an excellent resource for loyal mapmakers. 

 Armageddon's Blade brings nothing dramatically different or new to Heroes of Might and Magic III's 
 solid formula. Its gameplay additions are subtle, its new town type is offbeat, and its enhanced 
 map utilities are only for the most pious of Heroes devotees. If you played through Heroes III 
 and disliked it, you'll get absolutely nothing out of Armageddon's Blade. If you got some enjoyment 
 from playing through some of Heroes III's scenarios and a campaign or two, you'd do well to pick 
 up this expansion. However, if you were thoroughly obsessed with Heroes III, then there's absolutely 
 no reason why you shouldn't get Armageddon's Blade - it was forged specifically for you.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is a throwback to the days of Masters of Magic and Master of Orion. New World computing 
 has done a great job with this series, offering addictive gameplay and great graphics. Try the 
 hard settings, they are a real biznatch.
  
  Have fun!
  
  
  As graphics get better, who cannot help but notice that the female lead in most of our video games 
 has a great ass. It all startred with Lara Croft, who was so pixelated, that mentioning it was 
 a little embarassing. Now, especially with HD, gamers of all ages can apprecitate the gratuitous 
 tang that comes with our video games nowadays. So I propose that the next evolution of video games 
 will be Video Game Porn, or VGP as I will be the first to coin this phrase. I cannot wait for the 
 corny plots and bad music.... oh wait video games already have that.
  
  Don't fear the reaper.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  One good thing overall is the introduction of a new faction, the elementals. Those who played the 
 first one may be thrilled about it since the elementals in the first of the trilogy could only 
 be summoned or recruited in neutral creature dwellings.
  
  The first campaign, Armageddon's Blade, is the most exciting and satisfying campaign to play since 
 it involves the assembly of a powerful artifact through the scenarios and you get to unleash its 
 powers at the last mission. It makes re-playing an old game rewarding and refreshing as well. The 
 rest of the campaigns are interesting as well, including a wizard (titans) faction that doesn't 
 have mobile enemies, just powerful dragons that block your way. Own time, own target. Nice.
  
  The graphics are the same, even the music doesn't change at all, perhaps a new theme for the 
 elementals, but it should suffice with so much new content to allow Heroes III to be fun again.
 
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic III's first expansion, Armageddon's Blade was a solid expansion for the 
 hit turn based strategy game. It added some new campaigns, along with some new content that improved 
 it as a whole.
  
  The new campaigns are set after the events of Heroes III, the first campaign in which the expansion 
 is named after focuses around the Armageddon's Blade , and the rest of the campaigns are not really 
 at all related to the original Heroes III campaign, or Armageddon's Blade. Despite this they are 
 solid stories, and have well designed missions.
  
  Armageddon's Blade also features a new town called Conflux which focuses around Elemental heroes 
 and creatures. You can finally recruit your own Fire, Water, Air, and Earth Elementals from the 
 Conflux, and it's a very welcome addition to Heroes III.
  
  Along with some new scenarios to play through, Armageddon's Blade adds a random map generator to 
 the map editor, and quick RMG for use in easily generating random maps from within the game itself. 
 The RMG in AB is an improvement over the ones present in the first two games, and will give Heroes 
 III fans infinite replayability.
  
  Armageddon's Blade is worth tracking down for fans of Heroes III who want the Conflux town, and 
 random map generator. The new campaigns and scenarios are entertaining of course, but the former 
 two features are the primary reason this expansion is great in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst game of all HoMM series. The campaigns are pretty much difficult and require 
 a lot of time to finish, but the crappy part is that there is always an enormous amount of enemies 
 to kill, for example you have trained your hero to almost perfect skill level: att40; def40; pow40; 
 kno40, and you purchase 15 titans somewhere around the second month of the game (for now, it's 
 more than enough) and go complete your quest: defeat Azure? dragons. One hero is enough here, cause 
 you travel by the road which leads you only further away from your base. So on your way, for unknown 
 reason, you meet the guards like pack of golems, pack of gorgoyles and etc., but every third battle 
 end up in fighting 60 fairy dragons or legion of nagas - in my opinion, it's very stupid (of course, 
 everything's calculated for you to survive, but...) . The same routine repeats in every campaign 
 - boring. Even the plot of some campaigns has no mature meaning like: I'm a pirate, that's why 
 i will pick your eyes out, HARRR! 
  Ok, that's it, goodbye. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
