-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of the Pacific
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/heroes_of_the_pacific/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Does air-to-ground combat right.
 Easy to pick up and play.
 Decent campaign length.
 Lots of unlockable planes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online is dull (and you'll have trouble finding someone to play against).
 Not much different from other mission-based flight games you've probably played.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 319 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: IR Gurus Int.
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Oct 25, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Heroes of the Pacific isn't going to win over simulation fans, but if you're looking for an easy-to-play 
 World War II flight combat game, and you've got a decent gamepad, give it a shot. 

  With World War II still burning up the charts as the war people are most likely to watch exhaustive 
 documentaries of and play video games about, it's only natural that we see another take on the 
 airborne conflicts of the war's Pacific theater. Ubisoft's Heroes of the Pacific is such a game, 
 and it combines well-conceived controls and gameplay with solid visuals and audio. It's not the 
 sort of thing that's likely to knock your socks off, but if you've been watching a lot of The History 
 Channel lately and you're not after a frustratingly realistic flight model, Heroes is a good package. 

          Heroes offers up a typical mission-based campaign.     

  The game's main mode is a campaign that puts you in the role of a Navy flyboy named Crowe, who, 
 along with his brother, signs up for military service and gets caught up in the Japanese sneak 
 attack on Pearl Harbor. You get up in the air and make it out of there alive, taking down planes 
 in what is essentially a tutorial mission. Your brother, however, isn't so lucky and gets killed 
 when his ship is sunk by Zeroes. This plot development is an attempt to make it personal and leads 
 to some confrontations with the squadron responsible for the attack a little later on. From there, 
 the game works in chronological order, taking you through many of the region's major battles and, 
 from time to time, cutting in with stock World War II footage. You'll help evacuate Wake Island, 
 partake in battles at Midway, and so on. While light on cursing, the game does attempt to use period-accurate 
 dialogue, but all this boils down to is hearing the term "Japs" over and over again.  

  While you'll do most of your flying in light, maneuverable fighters, you'll also fly dive-bombers, 
 torpedo planes, and heavy bombers at various points in the campaign. Often, dropping ordnance on 
 enemy targets is one of the least exciting parts of a game like this. But Heroes of the Pacific 
 handles bomb dropping and torpedo launching very well, which makes these activities a lot of fun. 
 Onscreen indicators appear when you're preparing to drop, and they light up green when, for instance, 
 you've gotten low enough to launch a torpedo or have tilted down to the proper angle to do a little 
 dive-bombing.  

  The game's campaign seems like it has a lot to it, but the default difficulty is such a breeze 
 that anyone with basic dogfighting skills will probably cruise through in a day or two. There are 
 four difficulty settings in all, so by all means, turn things up a bit. It never gets fiendishly 
 difficult, but you'll certainly find the higher settings to be tougher. The game's difficulty is 
 also a bit different depending on how you're controlling the action. As a game that was also released 
 on consoles, it feels like it was made for a gamepad, preferably one with two analog sticks. It's 
 possible to play with the mouse and keyboard, also. The control schemes for these are functional, 
 but the control isn't as satisfying.  

  Aside from the campaign, you can enter into a battle with the instant-action option, you can unlock 
 a number of historical missions that are more closely based on actual events, and you can jump 
 online to play competitive games with up to seven other players. These range from a basic free-for-all 
 dogfight to team games, such as capture the flag or scratch one flattop, which gives each team 
 a carrier to defend against the other team. Planes you've unlocked in the campaign mode are available 
 here, including a number of Japanese planes. The online play is basic but functional. That said, 
 we found it difficult to find other players, so don't expect a huge community of always-ready pilots 
 to be at your fingertips.  

  Nice plane models and good-looking clouds are the things that stand out about Heroes of the Pacific's 
 visuals. The game maintains a smooth frame rate most of the time and has decent-looking ground 
 textures and targets. Things like the sun glinting off of the water and black smoke pouring out 
 of damaged planes help make the whole game look good. The game supports fairly high resolutions 
 and has support for wide-screen monitors as well, though at higher resolutions, you'll really notice 
 how ugly some of the textures look up close.  

          Variety is the spice of life, and changing from dogfights to torpedo runs helps keep things 
 fresh.     

  On the audio side, the sounds of combat are well done. You'll be flying over a lot of heavy battles, 
 and you'll hear things like antiaircraft fire exploding all around you. The game has a lot of speech, 
 and while it's disappointing that the orders you give to your wingmen are repeated so frequently, 
 the performances are solid.  

  While the online mode is a little too standard for its own good, the game's campaign is compelling, 
 and the game plays well overall. Some flight-combat buffs will probably dislike the game's loose 
 style, but people who aren't necessarily looking for a pitch-perfect flight simulation of the conflict 
 will probably enjoy Heroes of the Pacific.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jjjttthhh
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on the weekend ($20) because I was looking for an arcade style dogfighting game. 
 Turns out this is a pretty good game. It's fun as hell, and it's fairly action packed. Aside from 
 the graphics being a touch dated, I thought this was a great game for the money. My wife even watched 
 / let me rock it out on the big screen. 
  
  I thought the controller (Cordless Wingman) was very responsive. I found myself leaning off to 
 the side when I was swinging the plane around. I'm a fairly hard gamer to keep interested. I prefer 
 action games. However, this game has kept me interested for many an hour. 
  
  The only real beef I have with the game is the repetitiveness. Every time you die, you're forced 
 to listen to a voice over your radio telling you what you were already been told in the mission 
 briefing. I found it unneccessary and annoying.
  
  Aside from that one downfall, I thought this was a great game. I would recommend it to anyone who 
 likes arcade style flying games.
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sooner333
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Not as complex as a true flight simulator....... If you don't want to mess with an entire sheet 
 of shortcut keys to remember, and just want to fly without worrying about your plane breaking up 
 or redouts or blackouts when dogfighting, you should get this game...... Hella good fun for WWII 
 air buffs. I will still play my Microsoft WWII flight sim, but this is just great fun. Graphics 
 are pretty good at max res..... the geography of the islands is right on, the planes' flaps, markings, 
 weathered effects, are all very solid for a $20 game..... gameplay is very frustrating on simulation 
 mode with a flight stick, but solid on arcade mode..... voice acting for the Japanese is kind of 
 cheesy, but otherwise is good....... I just can't wait to get home and play another mission! I needed 
 a pacific theater flight game, and this one fits the bill without taking a week to figure out and 
 remember all the keyboard shortcuts........ Definitely worth the 20 bucks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidoo2323
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  After being dissapointed by the beautiful but incredibly tedious Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, 
 I've been pleasantly surprised by the fresh style and non-stop action of Heroes of the Pacific.
 
  
  Sure, you get to plan your approach when attacking, thanks to heads-up radar. And for some of the 
 missions you're charged with the command of an entire wing (4 other planes) of fighters, dive-bombers, 
 or torpedo-bombers. But the game doesn't bog you down with tedious control sequences to learn or 
 endless strategizing.
  
  While the gameplay graphics aren't the best, its colofully drawn WWII propoganda-ish menus and 
 beautifully rendered skies give the game a distinct style that I find appealing. The campaign, 
 with its bad (yet earnest!) voice actor and nearly nonexistent story line, is secondary to the 
 gameplay. Which gives this game a high replay-ability factor, making it a great all-around value.
 
  
  7.9/10? You bet. Give your brain a break and have some fun for a change! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmalyan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is very easy to get into. If you expect a full sim, this is NOT the game for 
 you. It is very much an arcade game set in WW2. The planes are nice to fly and can be upgraded 
 with points you earn depending how well and on what dificulty you complete a mission. You also 
 have a choice of what plane to fly for a particular mission and many get unlocked s the campain 
 progresses. The missions are varied enough to keep you interested into keeping on with the campain 
 although the stroy line is nothing flash.
  
  The graphics are average and could have been a lot nicer, but they do the job. I had no issues 
 with the sound.
  
  This is a good solid game with no overall weaknesses as long as you know what you are expecting. 
 This is not a full Sim by any stretch of the imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vytautasvaicys
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  The game is really much less than I expected. I wanted it to be something worth looking at, but 
 unfortunately, the game just does not cut it. I was looking forward to realistic WWII sim, but 
 this game is still very arcade, even on the simulation setting. It was clearly not designed to 
 be played with a joystick, since it will only frustrate you then. The more impressive part of the 
 game is its graphics, they do indeed look good - how the plane shakes when the flaks burst. However, 
 in the end it reminds me of a game like Airfix Dogfighter released some 5 years ago... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 7/10
  Compared to games nowadays, HOTP falls far short of the stunning graphics needed for a rating of 
 10. The planes don't look sleek, the sky doesn't look smooth, and the AI controlled objects look 
 like a nice background instead of an interactive environment. In other words, HOTP has graphics 
 back in 99 or 2000. Nothing looks interesting, since most of the objects in HOTP are bland and 
 look 2-D.
  Sound: 9/10
  Well, the radio has enough fuzz in it alright. The engine sounds are as all engines sound like, 
 and the gunshots have a nice 50's authenticity in it.
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Now here's the worst part about HOTP. From the missions I've played in the demo, there really isn't 
 much strategy or simulation in the game. It's basically a shoot-em-up on a grand scale and with 
 more freedom, since you get to actually move your plane in 6 directions. The annoying part in all 
 this is that the objectives are far too narrow and unrealistic, such as: shoot down 100 japanese 
 planes. When did ANY fighter pilot have a mission to shoot down 100 planes?!?! They'd be lucky 
 enough to protect the goddammed battleships and the fleet itself! In short, the mission objectives 
 have not realism, the mission themselves have no strategy, and flying the plane is nothing like 
 simulation. It'd be a good game if you're into arcade-style flying shoot-em-ups though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spec440
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  jump in the cockpit of your favorite antique warbird (and god, does this game have heaps of warbirds 
 to choose from) , throttle up and take off to the burning skies of the pacific theater during world 
 war 2!
  this game is by no means a flight simulator, its an arcade-style action game that just happens 
 to take place during WW2 and uses the period's aircraft.
  with that said this game is also pure absolute distilled fun!
  
  heaps and heaps and heaps 
 of planes to choose from, a long and challenging campaign, and red hot white knuckled action to 
 the max!
  
  fly a fighter and dogfight zeros, divebomb or torpedo enemy warships, and strafe and rocket ground 
 forces and emplacements, the action never ever stops.
  
  this is one of the first games ive seen that actuall does air-to-ground combat RIGHT.
  
  the 
 visuals are by no means spectacular, but are all very well done and very pretty to look at.
  
  the sound is absolutly amazing and the gamplay is feverish and intense.
  
  one of the best 
 point about this game is that making torpedo runs and divebombing, that would could have been a 
 tedious task that would have detraced from the games nature are quit possibly the best things about 
 it...
  the high-ptiched WHHRREEE you hear as you plummet down from the skies on your unsuspecting target 
 and shove a 1000 pound down its throught is immensiley satisfying.
  
  this game is a must play for all people who like action-gaming. simply a must play. you will not 
 be disappointed.
  it isnt innovative, and it isnt groundbreaking. but it does everything RIGHT. and has a real fantastic 
 feel to it. this game is just plain fun and absolutly heaploads of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  I remember the old days, when I would read about history and whatnot in my days of boredom. One 
 day I remember coming across a book called "defeat in the pacific" it was about the very same thing 
 that Heroes of the Pacific is about: the second world war in the pacific.
  
  This game's got it all, fair graphics, good gameplay, storyline that makes you come back for more, 
 and most of all, it's challenging, it's hard, and it's almost impossible at some points.
  
  The Levels: They're pretty good, not to mention historically and geographically accurate, I particularly 
 liked the Battle of Midway, and Midway Island.
  
  The Planes: Gotta love these things. They look great and operate great, and they look like the 
 real thing. Sure, it's hard to unlock some of them, but others you can unlock simply by winning 
 battles. The upgrading system is kinda strange. You can upgrade the ratings of each plane you get, 
 except for things such as the PBY Catalina, and you can also upgrade the armament. For instance, 
 the ME-262 Swallow has no secondary weapons at first, but as you upgrade, you get more and more. 
 At maximum, each plane has two upgrades before it reaches it's ultimate form. If you're gonna get 
 this game, save the 'points until you get the P-38 and the F-8, and you'll have some left over 
 to upgrade the Japanese J7W and the German ME-262.
  
  The gameplay: I've missed the good old days when the planes were agile and had no homing missiles, 
 the days when it was bullets that made the pilot, or broke them. The gameplay and dogfighting is 
 outstanding, and it takes real skill to properly become an ace.
  
  All in all, if you're looking for a challenging fighter pilot game, look no further, for Heroes 
 of the Pacific has arrived.
  
  -Zim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybbq
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  For many years ago fans of flight simulators on pc had the choice between poor arcade style game 
 and very hard, complex and realistic games. Do someone was tired about pass many hours to learn 
 the controles just to kill some planes?
  
  Heroes of the Pacific is now a good choice for gamers who just want to flight and destroy some 
 planes, ships, submarines and other stuff in the wwII historical context. And the game do it well. 
 Plenty of action like the very fun to play Ace Combat series with a great context (I mean the post-Pearl 
 Arbor attak) .
  
  The graphics are good enough to keep the player in the action. Even if your system is not up to 
 date, you should be able to run it well. Ok, its not as well as other recent games but at least 
 the frame rate is always high and constant.
  
  The sounds are similar to the graphics. Enough to create a good gaming experience, no more. But 
 its fun to ear the sounds of the machine guns, more and more powerfull as you upgrade your aircrafts.
 
  
  The upgrade feature is another good point of the game. Not very usefull because you get new planes 
 all over the campaign (you can also use those new combat aircrafts for simple out of campaign missions) 
 but its very cool to use your upgrade points (or save them for later) for more weapons like bombs 
 or rockets, more speed, greater armor or other performances.
  
  If you have a good joypad and you like flight simulation action games without to have to learn 
 how to play during 3 hours, try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I can't say that a score of 7.0 is truly too generous for HotP, but I will say that despite a moderate 
 score, this game is NOT worth playing. I will be blunt: the storyline is pitiful, and the use of 
 the WWII setting is becoming so overused it's passed the point of comedy and entered the realm 
 of tragedy. when a game like Call of Duty 2 comes out, it's quality overcomes the limitations of 
 it's cliche, but this is not CoD2. 
  
  If you want a truly great flight sim, they exist, and if you want a story and fantastic flight 
 experiences, there's the Ace Combat series. Frankly, this falls into the arena of games that make 
 me think "why was this made?" It's not a BAD game, but it does have the unfortunate distinction 
 of being another notch in the belt of those who feel that the industry needs to reach out to different 
 settings and source material to ply their technology on. 
  
  From a purely technical standpoint the game is mediocre, but by no means broken, so if you're desperate 
 for more of the same, then go for it. Consider though, that your choice to purchase or not purchase 
 games is the single REAL way you or I have of expressing our expectations and preferences for what 
 is to come on new platforms and on the PC. Buying this game sends a clear signal that bland fare 
 like this game can continue to fill the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanhalenn4
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I like it but I cant get past the pby level in campaign mode, because i crash blow up or both at 
 the same time!!! I like the game because of its stratagy to take place in the wst coast, instead 
 of all the boring germany levels. I give it an average grade. Not that it matters i mean i'm just 
 a rock fan looking for fun in games when i have time!!!!!!!!!!!! The graphics make the game what 
 it is, but that may just be my g-card doing its job, i don't like the part on how we have to unlock 
 planes and why we ca't by them!? ACCUTALLY I HATE THIS GAME TO DEATH AND WHO EVER BUY'S IT LOST 
 A CHUNK OF MONEY ON  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PattyMan2001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is Pure Fun. It can be difficult at times, forces you to try nre and different tactics. 
 One thing people need to get out of there heads, is that THIS IS NOT, I repeat NOT A SIMULATION. 
 If you come into this with the attitude that this is a pure action, shoot-em-up game, then you'll 
 have a great time playing HOTP, I sure did. 
  
  Some of the missions may have you leaving dents in your forehead from the diffucalty, but there 
 all certainly doable with the right tactics. The Variety of mission types, as well as aircraft 
 to fly thouse missions is great. Its Awsome to finaly see the PBY Catalina used in a game. Its 
 hard to beat the feelin of flyin low on the deck in a TBM Avenger, dodgein the flak, tryin to line 
 up for that perfect torpedo shot. 
  
  Graphicaly the game is great, not quite up to par with games like IL2, but they are wonderfull 
 in there own right. The Game menu is great, with WWII area ads modified to fit a modern game menue. 
 Brings a great nostalgic feel to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FALLOUT_PUNK
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw the title of this game i thought whoopty-do another WW2 game. Then i picked it 
 up when i was supposed to be shopping for others for christmas (LOL) and what i had was a game 
 that will stay in my library til I'm old and grey. When I first loaded this mofo up I was pleasantly 
 surprised with the menus they are all laid out in the old ww2 propaganda poster style it looks 
 awesome and gives it a real nice authentic feel. So i jumped into the quick play/dogfight mode 
 and i went to the plane select. I was treated to a sweet render of a warhawk and a bio about how 
 this plane was used and stuff during the war. It was nice to get alittle history of the planes 
 in the game and when i say planes I mean TONS OF PLANES..... there are like 40 to unlock both U. S. 
 and Japanese. And each plane has upgrades that give you more weopons and a new paint jobs.... and 
 the paint jobs rock... look at the screen shots! I pick my machine and jump into combat.... the first 
 thing i notice is the sounds.... holy crap the engines roar the guns rumble the house..... it sounds 
 like im in ww2. The controls take a while to get used to.... but soon i was barrel rolling and shredding 
 enemy planes with roaring machine guns. I got a smile on my face that games lately have not given 
 me. The explosions in the air look gorgeous so do the clouds (the best looking clouds in any flight 
 game ive played.... and I mean when clouds get me impressed i know its a good game) and the buildings 
 on the ground....... when you destroy hangers they blow up and smoke towers hundreds of feet into 
 the air... for the whole mission! This game is solid and I think it is a hidden treasure..... If 
 this intrests you at all I know you will enjoy it alot. this is one of my favorite games all year...... AND 
 its ONLINE! I mean If you like this era of planes you will be in heaven. THANKS for making a solid 
 game ubisoft. I look forward to the next installment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __DUFFMAN__
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:37 am PT
Review:  Fact: Before buying HotP, I had never had any experience with the flight sim genere. Keep that 
 fact in mind, since this review clearly comes from someone with no experience of this genre.
  
  With that said, I cannot reccomend this game enough to those in a similar position to mine. 
 Heroes of the Pacific is a game with it's roots in one, distinct zone - the one involving fun. 
 And blowing things up in the process.
  
  Flying your chosen plane (of which there are many to choose from - more on that later) , is simple. 
 You, the player, are given a choice of two control schemes - arcade and pro. These control systems 
 are simple to get to grips with, with little practice required until you can fly your plane like 
 an ace.
  
  The 'pro' setting makes things a little more realistic, but having said that, the controls are 
 still distinctly arcadey. These controls can take some getting used to, but are an extra challenge 
 for the player.
  
  As I mentioned before, HotP prides iself on being bloody fun to play. The game throws everything 
 you can think of at you - bombers, fighters, even dive bombers. Half way through the game, you 
 can expect to be launching torpedoes at battleships, whilst fighting off huge hordes of enemy fighters, 
 as wingmen shout taunts toward fallen enemies.
  
  To keep you playing, HotP rewards players for completing misions. Every few missions, a plane is 
 unlocked, whilst at the end of a mission, upgrade points are awarded which can be spend on improving 
 a plane of your choice. To keep players improving, upping the difficulty unlocks better and more 
 exciting planes. All missions are replayable via a 'missions' menu, and further 'historical' missions 
 are unlocked based on game progress.
  
  Presentation wise, HoTP is a mixed bag. The menus are presented beautifully, keeping with the WWII 
 propaganda styling throughout the entire system. 
  
  Planes are also excellently detailed - clearly, a lot of love has been put into making these planes 
 look real. However, the same can not said of ground targets - landscapes seem a little flat and 
 have a lack of detail.
  
  Heroes is a fun, challenging and long lasting game. You may not like it at first, but soon everything 
 will click, and you won't believe how much you will have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMcSlash
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed Heroes of the Pacific. In fact, I said to myself, "This is the game I have 
 been waiting for". More of an arcade game than a technical simulation, the designers have taken 
 some liberties with aviation theory. Still better pilots will win out, as there are enough of the 
 laws of physics still in force. There is also a back story, involving the players character, William 
 Crowe, a young Naval Lieutenant, who gets into the skies to defend Pearl Harbor during the Day 
 of Infamy. Crowe is helpless to save his brother, a crewman aboard the USS Arizona, and the tone 
 of the game is set. 
  Patriotic propaganda posters, combined with the back story, and the Naval Aviators salty language 
 give a sense of the different times those where. 
  The solo game is built around the "Campaign"; vastly out numbered at Pearl, you struggle to save 
 whatever you are ordered to; on to Wake island to stave off the invasion for as long as possible, 
 then evacuate key personal. On through the Marshall Islands, the Coral Sea, of course Midway, and 
 ending up at Iwo Jima. There are ten island campaigns total, all but Pearl Harbor having at least 
 two and up to four battles. The Marianas "Turkey Shoot" is represented as you dogfight with what 
 must be over 100 planes twisting and turning and exploding on all sides. 
  I was intrigued with how the designers managed to set winnable objectives in the first two campaigns, 
 which were defeats for the United States. Your not going to win, just save these few things, and 
 move on.
  There are objectives that can seem totally frustrating to the novice, they did to me, but when 
 I go back and play them now, they are challenging, but not at all unsurmountable. 
  Another frustrating catch for the less patient among us, while there are some 36 flyable planes 
 in this game, when you open the box and start with Pearl Harbor, you can only fly the earliest 
 version of the P-40. Totally outclassed by the Japanese Zero. As soon as you complete Pearl you 
 get to fly the Warhawk, a bit of an improvement. When you get ot the end of the game as an "Ace" 
 you own a very cool, small air force. 
  What is the "catch". The planes you have unlocked in the solo game are the planes you can use online.
 
  So for the Eager Beaver who wants to jump right to online play in a P-40, and forgo all the step 
 by step missions, go ahead. But I'm waiting there with a P-51 Mustang, or a Bearcat, or maybe even 
 an Me-262, the German jet on loan to the Japanese. Also the experience gained in playing the whole 
 solo game makes you a much better online combatant.
  This definitely a download the trial first game as it is difficult, and some like a challenging 
 more than others. There is a fairly active forum started by the games designers at http://www. heroesofthepacific. com/forum/, 
 where gamers can help you through any difficulties. 
  A challenging game, with great graphics, wrapped in historical tales of a war whose warriors are 
 quickly fading into the past.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
