-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic V
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightandmagicv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stays true to the spirit of a great and creative turn-based strategy series.
 Features six lengthy campaigns, offering many dozens of hours of gameplay.
 Six playable factions that are satisfyingly different.
 Excellent 3D graphics and outstanding operatic musical score.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some noticeable bugs.
 Fairly long loading times and other waiting periods slow down the pace.
 Not enough in-game documentation and the manual doesn't help.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 23, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.9, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 5,327 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     May 23, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This latest installment captures much of the charm and addictiveness of the other excellent fantasy-themed 
 turn-based strategy games that earned Heroes of Might and Magic its fiercely dedicated fan base. 
 

  It's been years since the last game in the illustrious Heroes of Might and Magic series. In that 
 time, New World Computing, the venerable developer of the Heroes games as well as the Might and 
 Magic role-playing series it spun off from, shuttered its doors. So the fate of subsequent Heroes 
 games became uncertain at best, until publisher Ubisoft announced that it nabbed the rights to 
 the Might and Magic brand last year. Then the question became one of quality. With development 
 reins now in the hands of Moscow-based Nival Interactive, was there any chance that the next Heroes 
 of Might and Magic could stack up to its predecessors? Apparently, yes. Underneath the fancy 3D 
 graphics of this latest Heroes game is an underlying design that's very similar to that of the 
 series' popular favorites, parts II and III. Even a lot of the stylistic touches, which fans probably 
 expected to get lost in translation, are intact here. So, despite some bugs in the retail version, 
 Heroes V comes across like an enhanced remake of a classic. Or if you're unfamiliar with the series, 
 you should know that this is an addictive strategy game with a lot of depth, personality, and lasting 
 value.  

          Best to carve out a good chunk of spare time. Heroes V is just about as fun, addictive, 
 and long-lasting as the series has ever been.     

  The basics of Heroes V are the same as ever. You must command unique hero characters and their 
 armies to explore maps filled with treasure, hostile enemies, castles, and much more. As heroes 
 win battles and gain more experience points, they level up, which grants them new skills and abilities 
 and also makes their armies even stronger. You'll also be taking in various resources with which 
 you'll be training more creatures, as well as expanding your castles to support an ever-growing 
 military and to stave off aggressors. Consider that you can have multiple heroes and castle types 
 to manage, various subquests to undertake, a whole separate subterranean area to explore, and multiple 
 enemy heroes to contend with all within a single scenario, and it should be clear that there's 
 a lot to think about in Heroes V. Good thing this is a turn-based game.  

  Heroes V presents an intriguing and diverse cast of heroes and creature types to play around with. 
 There are six playable factions, each of which should be more or less familiar to Heroes fans. 
 They'll find a few omissions (the barbarians and their war boars and behemoths are notably absent, 
 for instance) , but the game still runs just about the whole gamut of fantasy archetypes: elves, 
 undead, demons, wizards, and knights in shining armor are all in here. Each faction has its own 
 colorful heroes, creatures, and castle type, and while the underlying gameplay is similar no matter 
 which faction (or factions) you're controlling on a given map, each one has distinctive differences. 
 For example, demonic heroes can gain the power to make many of their brethren units summon reinforcements, 
 allowing them to overwhelm the enemy through sheer numbers. Meanwhile, undead heroes may raise 
 some percentage of their defeated foes as skeletons, and they may also bring some of their own 
 fallen creatures back to un-life after winning a battle.  

  These types of nuances aren't vastly different from what's been offered up by previous Heroes games. 
 But Heroes V introduces many new skills and abilities, giving you more decisions about how to develop 
 your characters as they get stronger, and creating more variety overall. It's too bad that the 
 game's interface and manual don't do a better job of making all the variety more transparent. For 
 instance, many creatures have unique special abilities that are listed in the game, but not explained. 
 What exactly does the horned overseer's "enraged" ability do? Figure it out. Some special artifacts 
 you find have no descriptions either, as if just having an important-sounding name makes it worth 
 wearing a special helmet.  

          Fully 3D graphics are new to Heroes of Might and Magic, but thankfully the game's comical 
 fantasy style carried over.     

  You'll have plenty of time to ponder these types of things since there's no shortage of sheer hours 
 of gameplay in Heroes V. The bulk of the game consists of six interconnected sequential campaigns, 
 each containing five missions -- and most missions take more than a few hours to complete. The campaigns 
 let you spend plenty of time focusing on each of the game's different factions, and they're sprinkled 
 with decent 3D cutscenes that weave an engaging-enough story, which should help keep you going 
 even when the missions get tough or start to drag on in spots. It's also nice getting to carry 
 the same hero character through a given campaign, though you might be a little frustrated at having 
 to rebuild your armies practically from scratch every time. Nevertheless, the campaign missions 
 are generally interesting and well designed, in spite of their occasional rough spots or seeming 
 imbalances.  

  Don't necessarily expect a gradually gentle increase in difficulty. You'll find that the campaign 
 missions vary quite a bit in terms of challenge. You can choose from three difficulty settings 
 for the computer's artificial intelligence, but a scenario's difficulty often comes from resource 
 constraints and other factors, so the aggressiveness of enemy heroes isn't the only thing to worry 
 about. Overall, the game's AI is pretty good, offering up a respectable challenge under most normal 
 circumstances, but acting rather bone-headed under special circumstances. So no, the computer isn't 
 as unpredictable or as intelligent as a human player could be.     

  In addition to the campaigns, Heroes V features a number of stand-alone scenarios, each of which 
 is given context with fully voiced 3D cutscenes much like in the campaign missions. You can also 
 opt to play the multiplayer maps against the computer, or against other players in a hot-seat mode, 
 over a LAN, or online through Ubisoft's ubi. com service. Turn-based games such as this don't necessarily 
 lend themselves well to online play, but Heroes V makes a few efforts to speed things up by offering 
 options for quick stat-based combat resolution, timed turns, straight hero-versus-hero duels, and 
 something called "ghost mode." In ghost mode, you get to control ghost units during your opponent's 
 phase, and you'll use these guys to muck things up for everyone else. Ghosts can be used to tamper 
 with enemy units and resources, but more importantly, they give you something to do when you're 
 waiting for your next turn to come around. As for the duel mode, it lets you throw two high-level 
 heroes and their armies against each other, if you're looking for relatively quick multiplayer 
 fix.  

          Combat in Heroes V strikes a good balance between simplicity and depth.     

  Multiplayer 
 still doesn't seem like it'll be the main draw of this game for most players, since even just the 
 few seconds it takes for the computer to resolve its turn in a typical single-player match may 
 test your patience. But these additional options are certainly welcome. Unfortunately, the online 
 multiplayer seems to have some connectivity issues out of the box, as version mismatch errors and 
 disconnects seem to be a real problem (and even if you don't run into those, you'll have to cross 
 your fingers that your opponent will be willing to stick around for an entire match) . At least 
 there's really no shortage of content to explore in Heroes V, though on top of the online issues, 
 the game is notably missing a scenario editor for making your own missions.  

  When you're not exploring the map in Heroes V, which can take a surprisingly long time on one of 
 the bigger maps, you'll be in combat. Again, the combat mostly stays true to the classic Heroes 
 formula by pitting your forces on one side against the enemy forces on the other side. You then 
 trade turns with your opponent and move your creatures based on their initiative. A single creature 
 with a number on it represents a "stack" of that many creatures, which moves and attacks as a single 
 unit. Faster units strike first, but most units on the receiving end get a chance to retaliate 
 (if they survive) , forcing you to be careful about which enemies you attack, in what order, and 
 even from which angle (there can be terrain obstacles to take into consideration, as well as your 
 army's luck and morale) . As for the heroes, though they can't be attacked directly from their position 
 on the battlefield's sidelines, they still get to participate in battle by striking enemy units, 
 casting spells, or using special abilities when their turn comes up. There are around a hundred 
 creature types overall, and they all have their own unique properties. How well they fight noticeably 
 depends on the powers of any heroes involved in combat, and this makes for some complex and fun-filled 
 battles. Yet these creatures are very simple and easy to control just by pointing and clicking 
 with the mouse and using a few keystrokes.  

  The combat does have a few minor problems. During castle sieges or when some of the flashier spells 
 are firing off, the frame rate can bog down pretty badly, though this is only a cosmetic issue 
 due to the turn-based nature of the game. What's more of a distraction is the initiative bar scrolling 
 across the bottom of the screen, which generally helps you to see which unit has a turn coming 
 up next. If you accelerate the default speed of the combat animations (after some number of hours, 
 you'll certainly want to) , the initiative bar can't quite keep up, so you might get confused as 
 to whose turn is next when you're rapidly clicking through a typical battle.  

  Another minor-but-noticeable flaw is that the result of each combat action is given away in the 
 initiative bar before the combat action plays out onscreen. For instance, if you were to make 200 
 peasants attack five arch-devils and only one peasant were to survive the counterattack, you'd 
 see the number of peasants drop from 200 to one in the initiative bar the very instant you clicked 
 to attack the devils. This ruins the surprise of the little combat animation that subsequently 
 plays out, but it's not that big of a deal. One other superficial issue with the combat is that, 
 for as great as many of the 3D units look up close, the camera angle during battle is mostly static 
 and manual control over the camera angle is awkward. You'll end up viewing the battles from a raised, 
 isometric perspective, rarely getting to appreciate the detail that went into all these imaginative 
 creatures. At least you get a nice close-up look at every creature when you double-click on its 
 portrait. Longtime Heroes fans should also appreciate that, despite how pretty the 3D units and 
 castle graphics are, there's still some great-looking hand-drawn artwork in the game.  

          Too bad we can't show you a screenshot of how great the operatic soundtrack is.     

 
  A fantastic presentation helps make the hours you'll likely spend with this game seem to fly by. 
 In addition to the bright, colorful 3D graphics, the musical score in Heroes V is a real treat. 
 Consisting of orchestral and operatic pieces, the soundtrack does an excellent job of setting the 
 tone for the game and even for each individual faction. The tracks also blend well from one into 
 the next, though in practice, by frequently switching between combat, exploration, and castle management, 
 you'll end up hearing the beginning part of each track over and over. The rest of the sound effects 
 are fine, and while the hammy voice acting during the cutscenes isn't exactly award-worthy, it 
 fits the game's half-serious tone well enough.  

  Diehard Heroes fans will find other things to nitpick about in this latest game in the series, 
 but taken on its own merits, Heroes of Might and Magic V is a big, deep, lavishly produced turn-based 
 strategy game that's got a lot of great qualities. And that's especially good news considering 
 this series very nearly died off altogether. Skeptical Heroes fans, as well as anyone looking for 
 a fun, long-lasting turn-based strategy game, will likely be pleasantly surprised by this one. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (211 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Heroes V featured an impressive production makeover from Heroes IV, and the gameplay goes back 
 to improve on the Heroes III formula with the inclusion of creature upgrades that's one of the 
 signature feature of HOMM in the first place. Another great improvement that adds to the addiction 
 is the interesting skill tree with unique ultimate skills that can be unlocked upon fulfilling 
 certain skill requirements to beef up your hero into a superhero, really.
  
  The first 4 campaigns are quite manageable under the normal mode, but the last 2 can be a little 
 frustrating without some trial and error. But in overall, the endgame puts you in a rewarding state 
 where it lets you unite most of your main heroes that you painstakingly leveled-up in an epic battle 
 against some uber demon. The game does it right by having really special abilities unique to each 
 and every hero which makes triggering those effects a very satisfying thing to do, especially the 
 Sylvan hero.
  
  Heroes V looks and sounds impressive with memorable creature designs, sometimes jaw-dropping town 
 cinematic views and a Lord-of-the-Ring equivalent soundtrack. Creature animations on the battlefield 
 are fun to look at and spell effects are a blast to watch. The Implosion spell looks deliciously 
 like a mini Command & Conquer 3's Ion Cannon.
  
  Being a fan of the series, I'm glad how the game turns out, though it can be real cool if it had 
 more full cinematics.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  I have already played "Heroes of Might and Magic" IV. I loved it so much that I was anticipating 
 a lot about the fifth installment. When I saw the game in the store, I quickly picked it up and 
 I must say the game is better now.
  
  Pros:
  + Immersive story in excellent atmosphere. 
  + Good variety in factions.
  + Great strategy.
 
  + Good replay value.
  
  Cons:
  - A bit hard, but thats me.
  - Sometimes battles felt monotonous.
  
  Overall this game really a must-play for strategy lovers. 
 Though this game is turn based but I never felt slow pace. It has done so many things right that 
 I was just spell bound at times.
  
  The game features 6 factions and none of these felt repetitive. Maps were well defined and I never 
 found any map boring. But some times lack of descriptions gave some pain in the @$$. User leveling 
 is also done properly.
  Overall I would suggest to all strategy and fantasy game fans to get this game and enjoy this highly 
 addictive game for long hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tal_levi1000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Definitely worth the time spent on it.
  Very addictive. The game's interface is very easy to understand, however if you really want to 
 dominate in the online game you WILL have to do you homework cuz there are A LOT of stuff to take 
 in mind.
  
  The factions are very well balanced in a way that there are no one town that dominates all others. 
 Each town has its own advantages with some creatures and abilities and disadvantages against other 
 creatures and abilities.
  
  The graphics upgrade to real 3D world from HOMM3 is very smooth. The creature's sprites are just 
 beautiful. I specially love the archangel and the archlich.
  
  The 1.0 version of the game is kind of buggy but the patches all the way up to 1.6 fixes almost 
 all the problems.
  
  In my opinion, this games in comparison to the previous HOMM4 is superior in every singles aspect, 
 however HOMM3 was even more addictive than this one.
  
  Bottom line is that you won't be bored at all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zynqu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks! it is a perfect game for strategic players. i myself love MM games and kind of 
 bias. to fully enjoy this game though, you must not cheat. you must rely soley on your tactical 
 skills. this game is great and successfully addictive. it makes the play the commander in chief 
 of an army and you get the say in everything. people who give this game a rating under 6 are haters! 
 (but different people have different opinions)
  
  i highly reccommend this game to everyone who likes war games because not often do you get to experience 
 the greatness of being a leader. 
  
  over all i have to say that thisgame is truly a revolution in the heroes series, due to the fact 
 that the grphics has improved, and the storyline is finally understandable. unlike the past heroes 
 games, though there was a slight story, it seemed kind of just thrown on there with not much support 
 in telling the player the meaning of each mission. again, this game truly rocks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelsonbaggins
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I started playing the Heroes series with HOMM4 which I loved at the time. But HOMM5 blows IV right 
 out of the water! They could make a 6th Heroes with the same exact engine and I would eat it up. 
 You've heard of WOW divorce, well . . . I may be facing a HOMM divorce! A+ fantasy TBS to say the 
 least. What little flaws there are (pathfinding issues, etc.) are so minor that they're inconsequential. 
 I also am loving the expansion packs with equal fervor. Hammers of Fate adds the dwarven faction, 
 which is probably the coolest yet, and there is tons of extra content from Tribes of the East including 
 another new orcish faction. FYI, HoF is downloadable straight from Ubi. com for $10. I wanted to 
 wait for a Gold addition, but it's looking like it either isn't going to happen or will be awhle 
 yet, and I just couldn't wait. Glad I didn't. Best gaming fun I've had in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scyldschefing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  I have played all the games in the Heroes series and have owned Heroes III-V. To be quite honest, 
 for some reason I cannot put my finger on, I have enjoyed Heroes V more than either III or IV. 
 That is not to say that it is necessarily a better game, though in my opinion Gamespot over-rated 
 IV and under-rated V, and I would have at least switched their ratings and maybe lowered V's rating 
 to an 8.5 or perhaps an 8.4 for the lack of a scenario. 
  
  First of all, I will confirm that the small touches which make the game feel like a Heroes game 
 have been preserved, or rather have been returned to after seemingly having been abandoned with 
 IV. This is reflected in too many ways than I feel like going into here, but for example spells 
 are not associated with town types, the weird alignment system has been done away with in favor 
 of the old town types, there are two tiers of creatures again rather than having one lair block 
 out another lair's construction, etc.
  
  As for what's new, it seems to me that pacing in the game is faster compared to previous installments, 
 though of course it could just be my perception. I felt as though I could build a main army or 
 two up quickly, send them into battle, and recover faster afterwards.
  
  There are also a huge number of hero abilities and specializations that all have a tangible impact 
 on battle and the game in general. Surprising combinations of abilities unexpectedly unlock other 
 abilities, and hero leveling feels fresh and exciting, at least for now.
  
  The assessment of the campaigns and AI in the main article are pretty much spot on as well. The 
 campaign is engaging enough, and the AI is good, though not perfect. I recall on one map witnessing 
 an enemy army running around in loops rather than engaging me directly.
  
  The graphics and sound are much improved not only in terms of power but also style. In my opinion, 
 IV was definitely a low point in this regard.
  
  If you are a fan of the series, and especially if you have been somewhat disappointed with Heroes 
 IV, I would urge you to give this game a shot. Its price has been going down since it was reviewed 
 on Gamespot, and at $20 it is definitely a bargain for the many enjoyable hours of vanquishing 
 pixies and demons you'll have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobaka770
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic is an elite franchise. The first one was developped by 3DO as a spin-off 
 from the Might and Magic RPG series. The second part came out shortly (and it was actually the 
 first heroes game I've ever played) , but it wasn't until the 3-d iteration that the franchize became 
 one of the most successful brands in history becoming even more popular than it's RPG 'father'.
 
  
  Despite the success of the series it didn't help much the 3DO which was tunning short on money, 
 but before leaving the market the gaming community was blessed with the arrival of Heroes 4 with 
 2 add-ons. Since then the admirators of the game were divided on two camps: one which loved the 
 3d part most, and the other that welcomed the 4th installement.
  
  With 3DO closing up, the franchize was bought by UbiSoft and the french publisher asked the russian 
 developper Nival to bring new life into the game. This decision was met with some criticism from 
 the fans, but I guess they were wrong to doubt into Nival's talent. Not only these guys developped 
 the (HOMM+Magic the Gathering ) EtherLords, but it is also a fact that Russia has a huge Heroes 
 community, so the game was in the good hands after all.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic is a Turn-Based strategic game that plays on several 'levels'. The main 
 goal is to chose a side, raise a big army and go pay a visit to the neighbors, but this is quita 
 a summary description of all the fun that awaits you during this quest so let's start from the 
 beginning.
  
  The game features 6 factions, which include humans, demons, elves - good, and not-that-good ones, 
 mages, and undead. If you start a campaign you'll have to play mission in order, starting with 
 Haven (human) . This first campaign also serves as the tutorial to the game, and for the first time 
 it actually covers almost everything you can find in the game so doing it first is highly advisable.
 
  
  The first thing you see when you launch the game is the strategic map, with your hero in the middle 
 of the screen. These guys are the cory of the game, they fight monsters, get resourses, gain experience, 
 basically a hero is an RPG part of the game with various characteristics and skils to discover. 
 However the hero is nothing without an army he leads.
  
  Army is raised in the castles, where you can build structures for your kingdoms economy and warfare. 
 The astle generates a certain amount of money per day/turn, all the other resourses like wood or 
 crystals need to be gathered elsewhere, and this elsewhere is all around the map. You can get resourses 
 that lie all around on the ground or you can get yourself a mine that gives a certain amount of 
 one resourse per day, but usualy these things are guarded by monsters and that's where the battle 
 begins.
  
  Battle is the 3d part of the game (I discern the strategic map and the castle as the other 2) , 
 it's also turn-based (but you can set a timer for each round in game options if you want a bit 
 of action) . It plays out like the chess, where the figurines is your army. The resemblance is even 
 more pronounced as for the first time, the game leave the hexagonal case battlefield in favor of 
 the simple squares. This feature adds more complexity to the game, and makes the batlefield easier 
 to observe though opinions may vary on this one.
  
  Another addition is the ATM bar, now the units apart from the standart Attack/Defense parameters 
 also get the initiative scale which determines when is their turn to move. This adds more depth 
 and complexity to the game, and the small scale on the bottom of the screen lets you see which 
 creatures are going to move move first, which adds more strategy on the battlefield.
  
  The big difference of the 4th installement of HOMM was the possibility for the heroes to fight 
 on the actual battlefield. Many people weren't very pleased with that system , mostly because some 
 combinations were much more powerful than the others and the game balanced suffered a lot. At the 
 same time all the previous installations were leaving the hero completely out of action, only to 
 be able to cast a few spells here and then (more on that later) .
  
  Nival chose the 3d option, which is basically combining the two: the hero isn't present one the 
 battlefield, and he can't be killed. At the same time he has his figurine on the ATM bar, so he 
 makes a move as any other creature and during his move he can either cast a spell, or attack any 
 creature without any retaliation. 
  
  With so much source material, Nival took it's time to balance out the heroe's skills and abilities, 
 so that none really stands out (though I like the Luck a lot) . The artefacts that hero can wear 
 are numerous but none really gives any supreme abilities to it's wielder. The magic, which was 
 always a major part of the series, is separated in 4 schools: Light-Dark, Destruction-Summoning, 
 all of which are interesting to use and feels balanced as well, although the beginners will be 
 most proficient with the straightforward Destruction spells rather than the subtle Dark Magic. 
 To get the spells you have to build Mage's guild in your towns, overall there are 5 levels, the 
 last one giving you a big powerfull spell (if your hero can use it though) which can change the 
 tide of the battle in your favor.
  
  At the same time if the arcane doesn't interest you, there are plenty of other talents that focus 
 on enhancing the troop's effetivenes in battle. 
  
  In addition to a polished gameplay the game also features a great soundtrack and some nice graphics, 
 which won't put your PC on it's knees, but the animation is superb, the map is crawling with life, 
 and the in-town scenery is just startling at first.
  
  So, in a nutshell, if you're a strategy fan you should probably try this game out, but stay alert: 
 some missions can last for hours, and if you bring some friends to the house (you can play up till 
 8 on one PC, or online) you can spend a very long night measuring your tactical skills. Unfortunately 
 should you play on one computer only, it'd take some time for you to wait till your turn but there's 
 no cure for that at this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Yes HoMM V really looks promising at first glance since the graphics and sound reminds you of the 
 beautiful yet mysterious realm in previous versions. But you soon find out it suffer from many 
 problems, including the interface and control, camera, loading time and so forth. Personally I 
 feel such drawbacks not too serious because they can be fixed in patches. But what I expect most 
 from the game is also a disappointment: the game play. This is where I want to go into details:
 
  - First and most uninspired is the idea behind this game. It actually strips off every change 
 in Hero IV to copy the gameplay of Hero III. It may be a good intention to attract old Hero fans, 
 but it does nothing good to the series, since a sequel should always try to improve their predecessors.
 
  - There are least factors and some of them are truly not different enough from each other.
  - There are least difficulty level choices in this version, and the default one seems to be too 
 hard for new comers. Besides, the AI of the higher difficulty level is not better, it's only the 
 matter of how many troops the AI owns.
  - The upgrade is hard since there are two few upgrade stations (fort hills) and the transport in 
 the game is not optimized.
  - The map structures is simply not good enough, making you find it difficult to combine power of 
 all towns and hero in your kingdom, let alone scout or strategically strike your enemies.
  - Ground units (infantry and cavalry) can become useless in town siege if your catapult is destroyed, 
 since they can't attack the walls directly and have no way to reach enemies insides.
  - Generally fewer scenarios in battles. That is not only because of the smaller number of factors 
 in the games. If you have played the 3th and 4th releases, you should have noticed that the main 
 and most interesting feature of the series is the rivalry between Might and Magic, which used to 
 be implemented perfectly resulted in many strategies. In this version, the defense and attack of 
 Mage heroes don't improve through level, and so are the Will power and Mana of the Might heroes. 
 And also, their troops aren't designed to counter the other side's tricks well enough. As a result, 
 the best (if not only) choice of a mage hero is to use clone or mind tricks and the Might hero 
 can do nothing other than hacking.
  - Last but not least is the hero designed himself: distinctive power of each hero in a factor doesn't 
 make much sense in real battle. That means one factor can actually have one type of hero.
  
  Well, please correct me if I said something wrong but indeed, the feeling after few tens of 
 hours spending on the game is no longer the same as it used to be with previous versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perilslayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first started to play the game i was all into it, because I like these types of games. After 
 I got through the first couple of campaigns I found it increasingly difficult to win. This is a 
 good thing, to some degree. I ended up having to quite on the second to last campaign because I 
 hated reloading several times just to win.
  The stacks of units was fun to play with and I like walking around with a crap load of archers. 
 But the enemy always seemed to have a larger army then me.
  Overall I liked the game but it was a little tough. This game may not appeal to everyone but I 
 think its worth a try.
  I played this game awhile ago but i figured that I would just right a review just for the heck 
 of it. Just wondering what others thought about the game and if they agree with what I have to 
 say about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I like the company ubisoft but i think they did an ok job on this game. I think it could be better. 
 I am used to very creative turn based games and i think this one could have been a lot better if 
 it had more options and you could choise more what you really wanted to do. In this game you could 
 choise your hero you wnated to be and he would lead your army while you play through the story 
 line. You can have towns and upgrade your barracks if you want to. Your raids can get crazy and 
 massive if you have enough units. This is a stagity *.* sorry game so you might not like it like 
 i did. When you fight you are on a battle field which reminds me of final fantisy because u meet 
 up with some people and then fight them then move on. You can go to farms and get peasants to fight 
 for u which is nice in the begining of the game. I would get this game if you like this kind of 
 turn based games. Not bad graphics either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekstrakt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game is just Heroes of Might and Magic 3 remade to today's graphical standards. It doesn't 
 bring anything new. It would have been more playable if they just looked at the unofficial expansion 
 realist "In the Wake of Gods", which was fan made expansion and added a lot of more buildings and 
 options in the game, making the game more fun to play. It's shame that they didn't remade all the 
 features of the old game (for example the artifact sets) .
  However, the game is worth playing for the people that hadn't played Heroes of Might and Magic 
 III: In the Wake of Gods.
  The good side of the game is the feature which tells what creature will attack next, and the building 
 tree which makes the game a bit more interesting.
  I gave this game a lower score because I was waiting this sequel for so long, and it brought me 
 just disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 5 - Probably one of the most mediocre and basic RPG storylines I have ever played. Boring 
 typical story of good vs. evil only this time its confusingly switched around.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 6 - Pretty typical graphics, heck its not that much better than graphics 10 years 
 ago but most RTS games aren't graded on graphics.
  
  Sound: 6 - Typical sound too, nothing stood out at all. On alot of the cut-scenes the mouth didn't 
 at all match up with the voice sound.
  
  Environment/Maps: 7 - Not bad mapping and environment. Maps and resources spread out evenly along 
 with the battles. While on the map, the enemy never seems to advance on you except for the one 
 time that couldn't be worse. The game likes to kick you while your down.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7 - Different style fighting, its "chess-board" fighting which can be rather 
 annoying after the 30th time you fight the same type of creature in a very slow manner. Game crashed 
 twice while in the middle of a battle both times were critical battles. Annoying slow loading screens 
 at times.
  
  Interface: 8 - Very confusing at first but after about 5-10minutes its easy to figure out where 
 at what everything is. Good selection and value of skills and abilites, these play a big role in 
 the game.
  
  Menu: 7 - Kind of bland looking menu but offers a lot of different choices on campaigns and how 
 to play.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Chess-Board style fighting and map laid out like an RTS. Pretty average, nothing too 
 new in gaming, but I do admit, as long as your not losing its pretty addicting, this game certainly 
 grew on me. Castle siegeing also turns out to be rather fun just make sure you have enough ground 
 support to take a large army on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitzah
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  I think Heroes V is a worthy addition to the HoMM series and, overall, to the whole TBS genre. 
 I consider that the game's true value is the patched version of the game.. yes, it had bugs, but 
 i never encountered a major one. It can't be compared to H 3 or H 2, but still, the producers have 
 gained a lot of experience, and I look forward to the next chapter. It still keeps you thinking 
 about things like: "What should I do about X... What spell should I use...? How can I block Y?" 
 when you're walking on the street, or when you can't fall asleep. One thing I really don't like 
 about the game is the initiative bar... I still think that the old battle system was better.
  I kinda hoped that the events would have taken place in the old Erathia... somewhere between H1 
 and H2, or H2 and H3, or H3 and H4, centered on the feud between Gelu and Kilgor.. or something 
 else... too bad.
  My score might be influenced by the fact that I'm a big fan... so just reduce it by 0.5 if you want 
 the true score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Ross_Key
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  I've found a lot to like in HoMM V, but, ultimately, I'm disappointed in the complete package. 
 To paraphrase Ziggy, it's not so much huge failures that that bother me; it's the pitter patter 
 of small shortcomings that leave me wanting more. HoMM V is a good game that could have been so 
 much better.
  
  I wasn't an early fanatic of the HoMM series. I played some demos of the earlier games and liked 
 them well enough, but it just never really grabbed me. I really became interested in this genre 
 when I first played Disciples. Most HoMM fans relegate Disciples and Disciples II to poor man's 
 HoMM status, but the fact is, the Disciples games boast many features that I wish were present 
 in HoMM V. My disappointment with HoMM V is largely due to the absence of features that made me 
 like Disciples so much. I like what HoMM offers, but I find myself wanting a tweak here and there 
 and a bit more in some areas.
  
  HoMM V includes a healthy variety of units and abilities, and the graphics are pleasing enough, 
 though a bit less detailed than one might hope. The creature animations during battle are enjoyable 
 and add a sense of immersion. I especially like the vampire's teleportation, though I would like 
 to have seen more of this kind of thing in other units in the game. The mounted units are also 
 interesting. I must admit, however, that I liked the artistic style of the earlier games in the 
 series, and I like the artwork of Disciples far better than that of HoMM V. That's not to say the 
 artwork and models aren't good. They are well rendered and interesting. I just prefer the detail 
 and style of other games in the genre. So the game looks good, but a tweak here and there could 
 have made it better.
  
  The campaign story seems a bit contrived. I couldn't escape the feeling that it was just assembled 
 as a means of tying a series of scenarios together. After all, I suppose that's exactly what it's 
 for. I find myself thoroughly disinterested in the cut scenes between missions. I'm the kind of 
 player who WANTS to be engrossed in the story. I think back to StarCraft and how every cut scene 
 was almost as enjoyable as the game itself. Granted, that's probably a bit too much to hope for 
 in any other game, but I at least expect to have more than a passing interest in what the character 
 interactions in these scenes reveal. Unfortunately, that Skip button is becoming all too satisfying 
 to me. There's really nothing new or compelling in this story for me, which reduces the campaign 
 to little more than a long series of scenario maps. That's all well and good as long as the scenarios 
 themselves are fun and interesting, and they can be, but it may depend on what you like about the 
 genre.
  
  On Normal difficulty the game is just too easy. The battles become just one exercise in going through 
 the motions each time, and completing the scenario is about racing to the main objective. To make 
 the scenarios more interesting, you have to crank up that difficulty level. One aspect of such 
 games that makes them interesting to play is hierarchical dependencies in objectives. Instead of 
 being able to make a beeline for the final objective, players should have to achieve a series of 
 smaller steps and/or build their hero and units up to a certain level.
  
  That hero development is another area with mixed results. Yes, over all, hero development is an 
 intriguing part of the game, but it could have offered more options for players to customize their 
 heroes. For the most part, development is very linear. Unit development is even blander. Even when 
 your units advance to their highest point, you see at best an incremental difference. I hate to 
 bring up the example of another game again, but in Disciples players were presented with branching 
 trees of unit development, and with each level advancement, units would visibly transform into 
 something new and interesting. In HoMM V, unit advancement means a small change in appearance, 
 such as the addition of armor, and some more hit points and damage. That's a big source of disappointment 
 for me. I want to see my army really grow and change over time, and HoMM V gives me but incremental 
 steps that amount to additional strength and numbers. I want more.
  
  On the whole, I do like HoMM V. The gameplay is fun and addictive, but that's largely a part of 
 the genre itself, not necessarily a characteristic of the game. This is a good game that could 
 have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a throwback to the days of Masters of Magic and Master of Orion. New World computing 
 has done a great job with this series, offering addictive gameplay and great graphics. Try the 
 hard settings, they are a real biznatch.
  
  Have fun!
  
  
  As graphics get better, who cannot help but notice that the female lead in most of our video games 
 has a great ass. It all startred with Lara Croft, who was so pixelated, that mentioning it was 
 a little embarassing. Now, especially with HD, gamers of all ages can apprecitate the gratuitous 
 tang that comes with our video games nowadays. So I propose that the next evolution of video games 
 will be Video Game Porn, or VGP as I will be the first to coin this phrase. I cannot wait for the 
 corny plots and bad music.... oh wait video games already have that.
  
  Don't fear the reaper..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  The game is kinda fun but has some annoying problems. 
  
  Managing towns is unnecarily complicated and confusing. There is no way to que up buildings so 
 i have to load up the towns every single turn to give them new orders.
  
  Moving around with your heroes is fun at first but feels time-consuming and finally pointless.
 
  
  The game should've been much more streamlined in terms of interface and flow of the game. I find 
 myself clicking away turns to refill my army so i can slowly progress along the levels. And there 
 is little satisfation when i do.
  
  I didnt try multiplayer. Maybe thats more fun?
  Erik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgx3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been thinking about picking this game up for months now and finally decided to do it. I'm 
 glad I did as it is an entertaining and solid gaming experience. It's a good break from the twitchy 
 FPS/RTS flood of current games. It's nice to be able to sit back and think about what you are doing. 
 If you have played any 'Heroes' game sbefore (with the exception of Dark Messiah) this is more 
 of the same, except for being very much more polished. The graphics are improved from IV in that 
 they are 3D. More importantly the map is nearly as cluttered looking as in Heroes IV, but it still 
 has plenty to do and explore. The battel animations are fairly standard, but that's not what this 
 game is about. It's about building a few cities, exploring the countryside, picking up various 
 arifacts/spell/followers and having knock down drag out battles (turn based of course) with many 
 different kinds of creatures. You also get to level up and work with heroes, which is one of the 
 things that makes this game, and its predecessors so great. At the end of the day, it doesn't break 
 a lot of new ground, especially in the single player mode, but it is solid and really a lot of 
 fun. It won't matter if you have played the Might and Magic series or not, get this game at the 
 discount prices it is going for now and you will have a solid game worth many replays. Quick update, 
 I am now into this about 60 hours or more and about to complete the single player campaign. The 
 devs did a great job tying all the various factions into the plot and it made me play and enjoy 
 all of them, something no other RTS has accomplished for me. I'll b ebuying the expansions and 
 have upped my score based on this fact and the amount of time it has kept me hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameerkid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  I played the past 4 HOM&amp; M games and this is a rather good game, but it fails to be much better 
 then the captial of the seris, HOM&amp; M 3. It's easy to see better graphics and the battle animations 
 are cool (spell animations are even cooler) .
  Not suprisingly, the battle system hasn't changed at all (at least, not that i can notice) . The 
 additon of cut-sceans is a nice touch to the campagin.
  If ur a HOM&amp; M fan then ur collection is not complete without this game, if ur just a TBS fan 
 in genrel, this is a nice additon but not needed.
  
  overall, this is a great game that just falls short of my expectasionsh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbeast8888
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  For those of you whom are fans of this series, this is a must buy! The graphics are simply beautiful, 
 while the game itself has only gotten better. There are now far more creatures to fight, create, 
 and persuade to join the ranks of your armies! Creature upgrades are here to stay, and you will 
 find more options for each race to enjoy as you play through the campaign. This game is surprisingly 
 addictive, as you will find yourself obsessing in order to create an army that could not possibly 
 be defeated! The most major change from the prequels would be the development of your armies' hero. 
 Gaining levels will give your hero many more options than before, making spell learning and casting 
 more diverse than it had been in previous games. Also, your hero takes on a role more as a general 
 in your battles, as opposed to the field marshall status from previous games: that is, your hero 
 is no longer an individual unit to be moved around the battlefield. Your hero will sit back, casting 
 spells and attacking as his or her turn arrives, and participate in the battle more as the overseer 
 from behind the ranks. An interesting touch, and one that is not better or worse than previous 
 title (simply different) . Otherwise, this game does everything that a sequel should do, and is 
 certainly a good game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimogre
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  A really under rated game!! A change from fast paced shootem ups. When you get tired of real time 
 games, go with Heroes. Since there is no Master of Magic 2 and there never will be, Heroes series 
 is very good.
  Of all the Heroes of Might and Magic, Heroes 3 is still the best. Add wog, the free expansion on Clestial 
 Heavens and you will be playing computer games for a long time. Heroes 5 the units have more detail. Heroes 
 5 is much better than Heroes 4. For some reason, eyecandy, Heroes 4 was a step back. I really liked 
 how Heroes 3 played.
  My hopes for the future are 2 headed Ettin even 3 headed Ettin. Hydras are cool and Heroes 5 has 
 cool Hydras. Heroes 5 is the Monster Mash. It's a graveyard smash. I just love having lots and lots 
 of monsters and being able to be a control freak. Get a big army and send them out to fight and 
 die for you:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalacticOrigins
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Back when the original HoM&amp; M came out, I bought it. This was before the game became a phenomena. 
 My friend bought and played it, and loved it. his WIFE played it and loved it! Now, understand, 
 the only game I had ever see her play on the PC was Mahjong. She loved it!
  Now, since HoM&amp; M 3, the designers have alienated 70% of their market. The game is too hard 
 for most players! Sure, I can get through it, but this is NOT what I want to do after a long, trying 
 day at work! The original game, and the second version, were both semi-easy. The computer opponents 
 seldom had huge stacks of 'the best' and there was always a showdown at the end. In these final 
 battles, the AI had decent armies but the player's was better and ... it was FUN! Now, the game's 
 AI can use the economics of the game design and really put together powerful enemies. Also, the 
 many scenarios are, uh, yeah, just a little too extreme.
  This is a prime example of the game companies catering to the 'killer' crowd as customers and ignoring 
 the largest part of their customer base. I've played it but I am really not interested in this 
 level of toughness. It is too bad, too, since the original game had such a large following among 
 casual gamers. And I consider myself a grognard wargamer with 4 decades of gaming behind me. Sometimes, 
 however, I just want to relax and enjoy myself. This is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is very, very buggy. (fixed by patches)
  
  Yes, there really isn't anything new gameplay wise.
  
  Yes, this is basically Heroes of Might 
 and Magic 3 Version 2.0
  
  Yes, this game is still an INCREDIBLE experience.
  
  While not as in depth and immersive story-wise as its predecessors (especially the great stories 
 of the 2nd in the series) the campaigns are still as fun to play as ever. With 6 different campaings 
 (one for every faction) , there is a lot of content there to keep you playing single player alone 
 for 10 hours. Also, with the challenge drastically rising as you raise the level, the campaigns 
 have very good replay value. However where the gameplay really shines is in the multiplayer. Whether 
 you're playing hot-seat against friends or online against strangers, all of the modes are fun to 
 play, placing you and your opponent (s) in an ultimate test of skill. While there are no standout 
 maps, they are all wuite balanced and accesable.
  
  There are a few minor twerks in this game. The first and most obvious being the graphics. In full 
 3D, the world looks amazing. Also, the camera controls good enough to allow a good view of the 
 world around you. In battle, the new Tactics mode and Scroll bar are probably the best additions 
 to the series. At the start of every battle, you get to place your creature stacks strategically 
 (placing ranged attackers behind obstacles, allowing large creatures room to walk, etc.) which 
 is very nice compared to the battles in HoMM1-4 where the creatures are placed based on the way 
 they are arranged in your army. The bar at the bottom does need to be fixed with a bug patch but 
 once fixed it is excellent to strategize based on what enemies of your opponents are next to attack 
 or showing the amounts left if there is a cluster of creatures in battle.
  
  The best part of the game however is the new castle system. A fully 3D hometown allows the gamer 
 to see the lands as never before and fully immerse themselves into the faction (Sylvan's hometown 
 is simply breathtaking) . The town points system works well and the menu system in the towns is 
 easy to use once you get used to what icons mean what things (purchasing creatures, buildings, 
 etc.) . The only problem is the soundtrack. The music seems rather innapropriate at times (such 
 as a dark theme playing while recruiting angels) and like the other games, gets old fast.
  
  To end this review, this game is easily the best Heroes of Might and Magic game ever and possibly 
 the best Turn-Based game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmaGD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Great game, great features and graphics. Ive been playing Heroes franchise since Heroes 3, so 
 I might have a opinion about this. The game really makes an effort to advance in the Graphics area, 
 but it stays really conservative about the game-play interface and the way to play. It just keeps 
 it the same, it might make many players dissapointed. When looking into the game, you might think 
 therere many items missing, less artifacts, less things. The sound (if perceived) is pretty good, 
 but not noticeable. I really enjoyed the game, although Ill have to admit that Heroes 3 was the 
 best of the series. The bug are many, AI is disappointing, I havent tested the editor although. 
 Im just thinking that its just too early to put a review. Ill wait for the patches and the community 
 to make some changes. Still I recommend the game, and keep saying it is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica_one
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  I have been a heroes of might and magic fan since the start. Was the first game I played and have 
 enjoyed it all my life and are still playing heroes 3. the series took a blow when heroes IV was 
 realeased to early. Because of problems with money. the series was bought by Ubisoft. and was made 
 by Nival. When I bought the game I was hoping for a new heroes 3 but I did not get that. I got 
 a ok remake of it. the game is balanced and a good game inn many ways. but it is lacking something 
 inn every part. Gameplay is fun but is missing some of the charm of heroes I-III Graphics is my 
 biggest issue, the angle of the view is not very good. and you have to change it a lot of times. 
 but is looking ok.
  sound is ok but is also missing some of the magic that Heroes I-III had
  the value is also a 
 little weak. I has some maps but not enough, but that is something the fan base are taking care 
 of. but you get tired of the game pretty fast. it is a good game but nothing has to many weak spots. 
 also the A. I is very weak and there are to many bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanchofirestorm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Heroes 5 is exactly what you want when playing a heroes game. they have taken what has worked with 
 the other heroes games and put it into this one. yes I am sad that some of the races where changed 
 , but if I want to I can always just play Heroes 3 anytime I want, now it's time to look at 5.
 
  
  the biggest thing I like about 5 is probably something no one has mentioned, time. in all of the 
 other hero games there would be miner time sinks, when combined over hundreds of times would accumulate 
 into hours of un-needed... hours. with 5 however, they took out a majority of that and just made 
 the game faster altogether. it used to with Homm3 it would take all day to play 1 hot seat game, 
 which is fine (this isn't war3 after all) . but now you can play 5 games that are similar size in 
 the time it used to play 1, and all that without taking out anything we enjoy in a Homm game.
 
  
  the single player, while lacking in some aspects, is still very fun. it does what any single player 
 version of a multi player game should do, it gives you the ropes so you can go play hotseat or 
 online without wondering what the heck you are doing. it is still up to the player however to figure 
 out strategy and what works.
  
  the races work. I do admit that I miss some of the... mysticism of Homm3's races, but new installments 
 of a game rework what work and take away what does not. my conflux is still waiting me in Homm3.
 
  
  even after patches, the AI can be dumb sometimes. but it doesn't matter, atleast in my regard. 
 I play this game with friends, not against the computer. this game just like all other iterations 
 is a social event, like monopoly. the music is good, maybee not as good as the others but it is 
 still very nice, a lot better than most music in most other games. the sound rules and the 3d is 
 a nice advantage, now I don't have to worry about moving my units to the wrong hex because I did 
 not get a good look. you might have to do a bit of adjusting in dungeons with the camera, but that 
 is just one aspect of 3d birds eye view you have to deal with, it's not Homm5 exclusive.
  
  the new hero skill system is almost exactly like the old, but organized differently. now all of 
 the scouting and movment skills are under the logistics tree, etc, etc. when you dissect everything 
 it's almost the exact same.
  
  all in all, this game is very nice for you Homm fans. from a multiplayer perspective this might 
 be the best one. the only thing I really long for is more mysticism in races, but for now this 
 game just rules. if they can keep their thunder I am hoping for what is to come in H6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koneko1991
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  The Heroes 5 is great game, but is it as good as the other's in the series. Of course there is 
 some cool features like the 3D engine and stuff, but the few rases and the small amount of multiplayer 
 maps really is not a big deal, i know that u can download the maps from the internet, but its not 
 worth it.
  Ok lets get to the deal, There are some great thing about is as well;
  #1. The graphics are really great for the firs 3D try.
  #2. There are really hard missions.
 
  #3. Of course that that you can play a multiplayer on a single PC. (thats a great plus)
  #4. And basically all else is good.
  
  It is good, but some missions are just too hard, you 
 can't possibly beat them, but who need the missions, the main part is the multiplayer.
  Personally i think that the best in series was the 3rd part, and it still is.
  
  So if you 
 like Turn based strategy games (i do) , and if you haven't played it yet, than tis is a game for 
 a good time with you're friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game features most of what you would expect from a HOMM game: turn based gameplay, chessboard 
 fights (square this time) , economic management and spellcasting. If you havent played the original 
 games, let me compare them for you to this one. Gameplay: Whoever made this game learned well from 
 the disaster that was HOMM4 and made amends to the fans. Fifth game reverted to having city population 
 increase only once a week; it became feasible again to afford all the troops in your city, and 
 thus making creature dwellings an important aspect of gameplay. Combat is as fluid (as far as TBS 
 can go) as it was in HOMM3, you can to great effect use obstacles on a combat map to achieve tactical 
 superiority. Like in HOMM2 you can build mage guilds up to level 5 for each faction. Original release 
 of the game lacks the barbarian faction, which pissed me off at first, but its is due in second 
 expansion. For the first time since, well, ever, every unit is unique it its tactical assets. No 
 more retarded units like lizardmen or leprechauns. Magic system is similar to that of HOMM4.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are everything you would expect from a modern game, though Heroes, by its 
 nature, shouldnt be very demanding. Great cinematic intro, great unit animation. Hydra looks like 
 a snake-hippo cross. Again. What distinguishes it from the previous games in the series is 3D. 
 3D combat is very impressive, with an option to zoom in and out. The town screen is also 3D, and 
 you can rotate it, and look at what you just built (unfortunately no zoom function here) . Spell 
 animation is also impressive, I even dare say epic. One annoyance is that during the battles the 
 camera will frequently decide to zoom in on what it perceives to be interesting -- usually tracing 
 arrow flight, or some such. While at first that seems nice, it gets annoying at times.
  
  Sound: Remember the music in the town screen in HOMM2? Remember being frustrated when HOMM3 didnt 
 even come close? Be frustrated no longer! Fifth game features the same polyphonic vocal wonders 
 that made us sit on the same screen for five minutes after building a unicorn glade. I wish there 
 were more of them, but oh well, its a game, not a recital night at opera house. The music on the 
 world map and during the battles is easily better than that in HOMM3 or 4
  
  Value: I would recommend this game to people who are already familiar with the series and its gameplay. 
 It has a pretty steep learning curve, and some managements aspects are never explained. If you 
 thing whether to buy this game or to replay one of its predecessors concider the following things 
 that it has that other games in the series don't:
  HOMM1 -- sound, scale and graphics
  HOMM2 -- graphics
  HOMM3 -- balance and sound
  HOMM4 -- unit upgrades and siege machinery (yes, I 
 went there)
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Is it just me, or does every heroes game since HOMM2 look increasingly less Russian? 
 Bring back the witch hut on a chicken leg, and give archers their strelets uniforms back! On the 
 bright note, I won 5 bucks, because I bet my friend that black dragons are going to be in the warlock 
 faction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeamonAMD
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  I did not like turn based games before I played this game. This is the best Heroes game i think 
 till date, I saw the other games but did not play. I did not play the other Heroes of Might and 
 Magic games but it doesn't matter cause this one ROCKS. I'm playing the single player at the moment 
 and then my friend and I are going to play n LAN MAP for this game. I can't wait.
  
  The game makes me feel so relaxed while I'm playing it. The sound track is SUPERB and the animation 
 of the creature in batlle are very nicely done.
  
  Can't wait for the next one. Hope you peeps enjoy this TITLE from Nival Interactive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mezzanne
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  The Heroes series of games (with the exception of I and IV, which I never really got into) have 
 been some of the most casually enjoyable and addictive games that I've had the pleasure of experiencing. 
 Therefore it was quite exciting for me to see the series finally go 3D and continue it's legacy.
 
  
  Was it worth the wait? Yes. Heroes V manages the transition into 3D perfectly without losing any 
 of it's flair... in fact, Heroes V is the best looking of the series, not only technically (... obviously...) 
 but more importantly, stylistically. The cities look incredible, and units and heroes are crafted 
 beautifully. Heroes V does not make use of the most advanced 3D hardware out there with filter 
 effects and such, however it looks incredible in it's own right. Music is equally well-done and 
 atmospheric. Sadly though, some of the voice acting is kinda crap during the campagn. But what's 
 important is gameplay, and Heroes V does it well. Yes, it is the re-use of an old tried and tested 
 formula, but it still works well, and it's deserving of the graphical upgrade. There's not much 
 for old fans of the series that they haven't played already, but luckily, the Heroes games don't 
 get old too easily. The game does however suffer from a fairly uninteresting set of campagns which 
 don't really manage to draw the player in too well. Still, the game can be enjoyed solely on the 
 skirmish matches... like games of chess. As far as turn-based strategy goes, Heroes V is really 
 one of the best. People who're familiar with the series should be pleased if they don't expect 
 gameplay revelations, and newcomers... well, it's must-buy. (unless you hate strategy :P ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Being a Heroes of Might and Magic fan I was disappointed to hear that 3DO went bankrupt, and New 
 World Computing with them. Then I heard that UbiSoft picked up the Might and Magic license, and 
 I can't say I was pleased. After seeing the final Heroes V product I can honestly say I was both 
 right and wrong to be skeptical about UbiSoft's purchase.
  
  Heroes V is set on an entirely different world than the two worlds featured in Heroes I-IV. Some 
 say it's another universe, but the mention of Erathian Refugees and Crag Hack seem to counter that 
 argument. Anyway, the Griffin Empire is at war with demonic forces, and the campaign follows this 
 conflict. The campaign isn't really intriguing, it's a fairly predictable story.
  
  Heroes V feels a bit like Heroes III meets Heroes IV. It mostly stays true to the gameplay formula 
 present in the first three games, but it introduces the attacking heroes from IV (albeit the system 
 is very different) . For most veterans of the series, myself included, this isn't a problem, but 
 Nival didn't really bring anything of their own to the series. Instead we have practically the 
 same game we played years ago, with a face lift. The classic Knight, Warlock, Wizard, Necromancer, 
 Demon, and Nature towns make their return which is nice, but most of them are a bit different in 
 background. The Warlocks are pretty much only Dark Elves, for example. A fairly major complaint 
 I have is the lack of snow terrain. Sure, it may not have been necessary for the campaign, but 
 every Heroes game to date except this one has had snow in the original game. Very disappointing, 
 Nival.
  
  There's also a disturbing lack of single player scenarios which the Heroes series is known for. 
 I tend to play those more than the campaigns themselves, so imagine my surprise to discover that 
 only six or so scripted scenarios were present. This is extremely disappointing, you can always 
 play a game on one of the multiplayer maps, but since the AI is so bad there is little point in 
 doing this.
  
  Graphically Heroes V is an improvement. All of the past games were 2D, or pseudo 3D, and V brings 
 the series into full 3D. Sometimes this is an issue, I found the camera very tedious to manage 
 in subterranean areas as the walls are so high, and not transparent enough to clearly see what's 
 behind them. The camera works quite well on the surface portion of maps, however, and fortunately 
 most maps center around the surface areas.
  
  The audio is satisfactory. There's okay voice work, and a nice range of fantasy sound effects for 
 the overall, and environmental ambiance. Unfortunately the music, which the Heroes series is known 
 for, is mostly terrible. Despite the fact that the original composers did the score, it just doesn't 
 sound very... well - Heroes-like. It sounds very amateurish compared to the sophisticated scores 
 of its predecessors.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic V... it's an okay game if you can get past the lousy campaign, AI, and 
 lack of scenarios. It brings the classic Heroes gameplay into the modern era of gaming, but it 
 just doesn't improve upon anything. It's not a bad game, but I think I'll go back to playing Heroes 
 II and III, they may not have the graphics, but they have far more variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft has done it again by using the guys form Etherlords II ( Nival) .. UBI has brought back 
 the greatest TBS of all time ... since the mmment you enter the game you will feel the might &amp; 
 magic universe 1once more but with a new face Nival has done a great job they kept most of the 
 original ideeas some of them are improved some of them are old + man new things the story is great 
 , graphics are gorgeous .. you should se the castles its like a difret world with every castle 
 my favorite is the Dungeon .. the A. I. can be really chalenging for both experineced &amp; unexperienced 
 players ... the only bad about this game is the map wich if you try to see it from up in the sky 
 the framerate will fall hard :| the rest the game is great &amp; just right for TBS fans ... playet 
 especially on lan thats the real fun !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryfu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  I've followed the Heroes series since the Succession Wars (Heroes II) and I fell in love with the 
 whole series. Part 5 is another evolutionary step for the franchise marrying 3D graphics with turn-based 
 gameplay.
  
  Retaining most of the features that make Heroes a wonderful game, NIval added new ones such as 
 Inititative bar (with the corresponding stat) , special Heroes abilities (e. g. Avenger, Gating, 
 etc.) , cutscenes during gameplay (ala Warcraft III) , and other minor updates. The Initiative bar 
 is truly the best innovation yet adding another strategic dimension to the battles. One can take 
 advantage of this by using high initiative creatures to take down slower moving ones without getting 
 a hit (see the blood maidens) .
  
  As mentioned a lot of minor updates were made to the Heroes franchise. Towns now have special features 
 (e. g. bonus growth, etc.) . The Heroes skillset has further evolved with Ultimate skills for each 
 hero type. The armies looks wonderful in 3D and tastefully done though I got irritated by the Dungeon's 
 Shadow Matriarch's constant whip cracking. Heroes themselves get to attack creatures though they 
 are not part of the army, and you can select which army will be on the battlefield (you can safe 
 your archers from mages this time by just putting gargoyles and golems on the field) .
  
  A few complaints however marred this otherwise excellent game. First, the manual should be more 
 comprehensive and cover the multitude of options available to the players. As it is I had to rely 
 on fan websites to get the unofficial guides on skill requirements and town benefits. Second, the 
 long loading times and the odd stuttering even though its not realtime. Third, the rather cheesy 
 voice-acting of most of the cutscenes. Fourth, the number of added scenarios could have been more, 
 though the existing ones are well-done and not just additional maps created on a part-time basis.
 
  
  This are just minor concerns and the overall gameplay remains addictive, immersive, and challenging. 
 The campaign is fun to play and it gets progressively harder as you unlock the subsequent ones. 
 For turn-based strategy fans, Heroes have always been the Holy Grail of turn-based games, and Heroes 
 V extends the life of this series longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I found the overall experience of the fifth Homm to be good overall. I liked the graphics, the 
 sound, the battles, etc. The game went from easy to extremely challenging in the campaign. The 
 story was good, creative and kept me engaged in the game until the end. The only real problem envolved 
 with the game is the amount of time you have to allot to get anywhere. It is hard to quit a game 
 when you think you are close to completing a mission, when it turns out you are not strong enough 
 or just need to explore to get more helpful trinkets to enable you to defeat the enemy. Hopefully 
 a Might and Magic game will come out soon so more of my time can be wrapped up in this world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like very much the other Heroes of Might &amp; Magic games,&amp; I don't like the universe 
 very much. But Heroes V is trully a great game, relaxing &amp; artistic. The graphics are good, with 
 high textures &amp; details. The 3D views of the towns, castles is made wit art &amp; it's breathtaking. 
 The sound is simply superb: great sound effects &amp; a awesome soundtrack that will help you... in 
 a way. The gameplay is similar to the other Heroes; but it's more vast, there are more artefacts, more 
 units, buildings &amp; upgrades, more skills to heroes. My favorite faction is Haevan &amp;... the 
 bad guys, the chaos... The story kinda sucks,&amp; the cutscenes are poorly realised. But, after playing, you'll 
 fell bord, but you won't know why. I don't know why, but I am bord of it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Turn based games like Disciples or the old Might and Magic games are plenty few these days.. This 
 is why HoM&amp; M V breaths air back into the genre once more.. giving us more turn based gameplay.
 
  
  I have to say I enjoyed Disciples more than this game probably because the timer gave me more restriction 
 but it does give the game a bit more challenge to it. Gameplay: easy to pick up and play.. very 
 good mechanics.
  
  Graphics: excellent.. but should we expect any less these days?!
  
  Sound: good.. the music score beats the sfx but the sfx do a great job in their own right
  
 
  Value: replay value is only in the mods you can get for it since once done with the campaign/quests 
 your pretty much done.. except if you want to increase the difficulty.. which is pretty much standard.
 
  
  My taste of the game was a clear 8 ... worth playing for those new to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remusgd13
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I played the game ( along side with Hammers of Fate) , but I think it needs more work in the future. 
 The AI in the campaign it's either very stupid, or super intelligent and super strong. The game 
 needs more interesting spells, needs orcs and barbarians and more control on how your hero fights 
 in melee ( in Heroes 4 it was quite important your hero) . Also the movies are bad ( and I'm not 
 hard on them) and the game lacks explications for the various items, for morale, for luck, etc 
 (its predecessors had them, so ubisoft got lazy this time) . But it still has the charm of the series 
 and the factions in the game are very well balanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebonyassassin2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up this game I was amazed, it is like I stepped backward into a time period of my 
 life where I played HOMM 1 and 2, then forward into the modern age.
  
  Many people throw out their hype that this game isn't what the older ones were, that its just a 
 rip off of a good franchise, honestly those people don't know what they are talking about, its 
 just like the older games in almost every way and brings forward many new things to the table.
 
  
  As an avid Turn Based Player, this game bring so much enjoyment with hot seat games at home, taking 
 turns with friends, enjoy what is systematically just a giant board game, with 3D graphics.
  
  The first thing you notice when you start the game is the title screen, a battle between a 
 Monk and a Devil, its an amazing cinematic that I sat and watched for at least 15 minutes before 
 actually starting the game, it may only be a little thing but its a very nice touch to the game.
 
  
  You have your options of a few different ways to start, jump into skirmish, multi-player, or the 
 campaign. I started out with the campaign just to get used to the units before getting my ass handed 
 to me in multi-player or skirmish.
  
  The campaign has an interesting story, nothing too special, but just enough to follow it and want 
 to know the ending, the saddest part is the foreshadowing in the story is.. too much, enough to 
 flat out say oh this is going to happen .
  
  The voice acting is kinda poor as well, too much emotion or not enough, some are very monotone 
 and others just sound plain stupid in their approach.
  
  After the first few missions of the campaign I jumped into a hot seat skirmish game with my friend 
 (I chose Haven, he chose necropolis) For those of you that don't know hot seat is the ability to 
 play turn-based games on one computer, just basically taking turns.
  
  In skirmish the first thing I noticed was how detailed the world was, I think I probably spent 
 a good chunk of my time just zooming in on things, enjoying the details and mapping out my surroundings 
 before moving out.
  
  After about an hour or two, I finally got into a few skirmishes with my friend, almost everything 
 was dead on the map, but us, so what is there to do but fight?
  
  Sadly, I ended up losing but, the point is, I had fun, like any game people nowadays take too much 
 thought into things, they forget thats what these games are for, to get together with friends and 
 enjoy yourselves.
  
  To this day I still partake in extremely over-lengthy skirmishes with my friends in this game, 
 and this game honestly shall remain a part of my collection for the better.
  
  So whine all you want about bugs, and crashes, patches will come, this game has its fair share, 
 but what game doesn't on release? This game provides well worth its share of hours of fun for the 
 patient (yes the non-patient shouldn't play this game, might cause aneurysms, taking turns isn't 
 made for everyone) This game remains a good party game, and a good time waster if you have time 
 to burn, for its price it provides a nice game replayability for its cost. =D (until HOMM6 =p)
 
  
  For this, I give HOMMV a 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of might and magic V offers you single and multi play missions. The whole game is in 3D, 
 but it's not lost that charm of strategy. Both choices have three levels of difficulty (normal, 
 hard, heroic) . Battles are very well organized so you can see which creature will play next. There 
 are some new features and some new skills. There are not so many maps but .. it's ok.
  
  In a single play you cal play campaign, which offer you six campaigns with the great story, and 
 you can play custom game against one or eight players (computer) .
  
  In a multi play you will find hot-seat, local network and ubi. com. Choosing hot-seat, you can play 
 with other players using the same computer. Graphic in this game is very nice .. music and sound 
 effects are very well, in one word, this game deserved to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dasdf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  the games'great acuttaly i have a very good time play on it.
  the game play i think is perfect its much more good the the 3 and 4
  new animations and maps 
 and more.
  
  the graphics and tilt fine but there works to have.
  the value is fine and the sound interesting
  
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iulitheman
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the Heroes of Might and Magic series although I didn't play the first two installments. 
 Now Heroes 3 was an instant classic with it's complex strategy and combat, great graphics and exceptional 
 feeling. Heroes 4 brought a great change in tactics (although the one hero army defeating dozens 
 of dragons was a bit much, but still way cool) , again great graphics and storyline. So naturally 
 everyone has been holding their breath waiting for HOMM5. Lets start with the beginning: nice intro, 
 loading..., interlude with some characters (what's with their voices, could the actors be more 
 bored and incompetent?) , onto playing: quite a small map with no serious threats (feals more like 
 a tutorial) . Unfortunately, the tutorial feeling continues for the rest of the first campaign. 
 Maps range from lousy designed to great . The gameplay is quite good (it's still HOMM3 style but 
 with some welcomed additions) . The storyline is extremely short (more fit for a scenario than a 
 six campaign game) and totaly unimaginative : humans versus demons blah blah blah demon messiah 
 born from a human blah blah blah (ahhh the good old times with the campaigns in HOMM4) . Sound is 
 good (except for the voice actors) and music is enjoyable. In conclusion only buy HOMM5 if you 
 liked HOMM3 and hated HOMM4 or if you are a true fan of the series and want to witness its end.
 
  
  P. S. : I gave the game an 8/10 because it is still great fun to play, in spite of the fact that 
 it has none of the charm and feeling of H3 and H4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma35
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Heroes 5 brought a console gamer over to The Dark Side! I have played and enjoyed all the Heroes 
 games, with 3 being my favorite (lets forget about 4) . My son was watching me play Heroes 5, tried 
 it out, and has not stopped playing for weeks! He keeps telling me just one more turn Dad (the 
 cry of a true Heroes fanatic) . The campaign story is great, and the game play is Heroes 3 with 
 fantastic graphicsand whats wrong with that? Despite what the forums say, this game was designed 
 with old school fans in mind, and any of us will find a lot to enjoy with this updated classic! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROBofDEL
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  If they wanted to call this game Etherlords III,, that would of been fine. It's a lot more like 
 that game than it's like Heroes III... The gameplay is a lot more cumbersome and sluggish campared 
 to previous Heroes games. The new graphics are not the only reasons for this. Even after the Map 
 is visible it's VERY hard to plot out any type strategy for movement. The Castes are pretty to 
 look at but again just building, upgrading, and getting your units is still a very slow process. 
 This things were all a snap in previous editions. In the End I think they wanted to add more of 
 RPG feel but I felt they did so at the expense of the strategy gamer who loved anbd help make the 
 Heroes series as popular as they were.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydras808
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  I seem to be one of the few people who actually liked Heroes IV. It took a step in the right direction, 
 adding a lot of new features.
  
  Now, sadly, Heroes V takes the series a step back. A lot of the new things form Heroes IV are gone: 
 Heroes can no longer do real battle, creatures can no longer move without heroes, the magic system 
 has been stripped down, you can only have one hero per army, the caravan system is gone (which 
 is a real bummer because it added a lot of extra strategy options, you can no longer remote hire 
 creatures from dwellings and so on.
  
  Another thing that has been removed are all the spell descriptions and little bit of text that 
 came up when you found an artifact or found a treasure chest.
  For example if you checked out a necromancy spell in IV you got a description of the spell and 
 in what situation it would be useful writtedin by a necromancer. These little descriptions may 
 not seem like much but they were fun to read and made the world seem a little more alive.
  It's a pity Nival didn't take the time to implement this in V as well.
  
  The story isn't much 
 better. It's your basic fantasy cliche story - and there's nothing wrong with that - but it just 
 seems so shallow.
  In IV the story was interesting and for each mission there were usually several pages of backstory 
 which added some much needed depth.
  This is now replaced by short cutsceense that just add minimal information to keep the story going. 
 However, the same, addicting gameplay that has made the series so popular is still there. Other 
 than that Heroes V is a step back that will leave you with a little bit of a bitter taste in your 
 mouth if your an old Heroes fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olleost
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  I&acute; ve been playing Heroes since the first one came out, with all the expansions. I have even 
 played through them over and over. That is ALOT of hours and hours of gameplay, and it has almost 
 becoming a way of life. I think the third one is the best, but at the second place we have this 
 title. Heroes V shines in its visual presentation. The new 3D graphics is great and if you ever 
 played a heroes-game you will get into the gameplay very fast. The combat animations, colors, detail, 
 and spell effects look sharp even with the camera zoomed in. When in battle, the animations is 
 very funny, especially the mage. That is my favorite. Heroes V keeps some of the classic charm 
 of the old games while adding a new tone. The game is fairly balanced, and the story is great. 
 Why are you reading this? Go play the game instead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiti
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V is, without doubt, the best Fantasy Turn-Based Strategy Game I have 
 ever played. It has solid story line, high replay value, great 3D graphic and music background. 
 It's just plain fun and hightly addictive. The game, however, is kind of hard for me even when 
 playing easy level. I spent two whole days and two whole nights completing just one sceanrio on 
 a very big map. The AI opponent is quite smart, and very hard to beat. The bad thing I have to 
 say about this game is that it has too many patches and this confuses the players which version 
 of the patches they need to update their game. I have tried 3 patcheds to update my game to version 
 1.4, i. e. US patch, Asian, Collector's Edition, but to no avail, just keep getting an error message 
 There is no Heroes of Might and Magic V installed on your machine. And this drove me crazy. Finaly 
 with the help of a program called GameShadow , I could get the right patch and applied it to my 
 game. So new players, especailly those folks from other countries outside US and Europe, should 
 be warned about this patching problem. I live in Thailand, that's why I have this kind of problem, 
 not knowing which version the game sold in my country is. Apart from that, it is just a great game 
 and worth every penny you spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  I bougth this game last summer, because at our holyday place, we are nowhere near a game cube or 
 a wii. I'd played Heroes II another year in the summer, but had lost it, so I thougth if I bougth 
 this one, it would really be fun. Well, I was dissappointed.
  
  In the heroes II, there was no difficulty in seing which building was which, but in Heroes V, that 
 really was a problem. I thougth the 3D hade it confusing and even though I had the worst graphic, 
 it lagged badly. Sometimes I dindn't have the patience to play it.
  
  What was even worse, was there was almost no missions to play, and the few who was, was always 
 about finding the tear of Asha. The campains was really not impressive. It seems the only reason 
 to buy this game, was to play it online, but I never found out how to get a key, even though I 
 made an account at ubisoft. com.
  
  Even though the new combat system was somehow cool, I would still prefer the heroes II game over 
 this one when it comes to combat. Heroes II was also a game with better hot seat and better single 
 player. Very dissappointing, and a bad game (though I had to give it nine on the graphics) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSmerf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I thought this was a great step in the right direction for the Heroes of Might and Magic series. 
 This game was a collaborative effort by Ubisoft and the fans of HMM to create a well polished game. 
 The campaign offers extraordinary amount of gameplay as well as good difficulty. The single player 
 has a good variety of games, and now there is a map editor available I believe. As a fan of the 
 series, I like this game a lot, and the way Ubisoft is taking the game. It has amazing graphics, 
 comparable to the best games out there right now, and like always, the strategic gameplay is unique 
 to HMM. I haven't exploited the online capabilities of this game, but I know many people enjoy 
 playing online with ranking systems and good servers. I suggest this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excelsior82
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  When I heard Heroes of Might and Magic V would be fully in 3D, I absolutely wanted it, and got 
 it few days after release.
  Some bugs at first time which were corrected by the patches (not sure for multiplayer) .
  
  
 The game reconciliate with Heroes of Might and Magic. I'm feeling playing with a Heroes 3 but with 
 better graphics and in 3D. Now you can have up to 7 stacks of creatures in your army (like the 
 3) and there's a lot of new ones ! Heroes have again specialisations which makes you play differently 
 with each of them and aren't on the battlefield so you can't have them killed when attacking creatures.
 
  Towns are very beautiful, you can even visit them in 3D, though it's not very fun because there's 
 not a lot of animation. We get back to weekly production of creatures, not daily like in the 4, 
 and having a citadel and a castle rise up production by 50% and 100% (you remember heroes 3 ;-) )
 
  Campaigns are well done, the story is entertaining and intrigous (hope that word exist) . I would 
 reproach that lips of character don't move when they speak in cutscenes except in the cinematics 
 (That are very enjoying) .
  
  Multiplayer is cool, with 2 modes (usual way and fast battle) , there's not a lots of map (as in 
 solo :-/) but you can play with ghost turn that makes you having control of a ghost when it's others' 
 turn. You yan possess creatures, curse armies and some other funny things. Opponent's turn aren't 
 tedious anymore !
  
  To put it in a nutshell, I would say Heroes of Might and Magic V get back to the ancients values 
 of HOMM world with improved graphics and a really cool story. If you liked Heroes 3, you'll like 
 this too.
  Although, watch out your graphic card, 3D is greedy ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game. Honestly I think I just played too much hero's iii. Overall the gameplay is pretty 
 much the same. The graphics are, of course, better. The sound is a bit repetative, although the 
 music is pretty cool, the creatures all make the same sounds over and over again every time they 
 get hit and die and all that stuff. Also, I wish there was more than one dying animation for each 
 unit. Honestly, for the recommended hardware I expected a bit more.
  The look and sound is not, however, as important as the gameplay. Which is fun by the way. The 
 one problem I have always had with hero's is that the heros aren't very personalizable, and simply 
 don't play as big of a part as they should, other than, of course, needing a hero to have an army 
 go anywhere outside your city. There is plenty of variety with six factions to play as. Yet they 
 are similar enough that the learning curve isn't too high. In other words if you know how to play 
 one faction you know how to play them all. All in all a pretty cool game. Really fun to play, but 
 not intended to be realistic, which is rare these days. I cant picture hard core gamers getting 
 in to this game, but it is great to play with friends if your not networking, or to do as your 
 watching a movie too, or playing a board game too or something. Depending on the difficulty you 
 set the game too, it runs the gambit of easy to hard, which makes it easy to pick up without any 
 experience, and keeps you playing even after you get pretty good. Some things I don't like about 
 the game is that there is no way to ally with other human players when playing hot-seat, at least 
 not that I have found. Also, I haven't found a map generator either, so that means the same maps 
 over and over again. Other than that I recommend this game as an honestly fun game that people 
 who play video games for good honest fun should get. Its a good price too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Good Graphics, Basically the same formula as the previouse versions, but It's kind of hard to beat 
 Heroes 3. If you are a fan of the Heroes Series, I would recommend stiking with Heroes 3, I acutally 
 played the Demo for Heroes V, then I went back and played Heroes IV while waiting for V. I acutalluy 
 enjoyed Heroes 4 (because I did'nt have anything to compare it to) . Then a friend of mine showed 
 me Hereoes 3 and I was instantly floored , Heroes 3 is by far the best in the series. It is highly 
 addictive. The graphics engine better in Heroes IV and V, but there is just someting about the 
 gameplay that just can't be beat. Heroes V is good in regards to graphics, but the gameplay sore 
 of lacks at bit compared to Heroes III. If you can find a copy of Heroes 3 somewhere, I would recommend 
 it instead ($10.00 vs $55.00) do the math. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgg8768
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is a bit like a turn-based version of Warcraft (the RTS game - not World of Warcraft) . 
 The basic gameplay is simple - build up army and conquer castles. But the game is quite addictive.
 
  
  One thing I like is that even though it is turn based it feels a bit like a real time game since 
 your heroe moves around on the screen and the turn based battles are well animated.
  
  I played on the Normal difficulty setting. I found the first 4 missions were fun but were generally 
 not at all challenging. I was told in a forum on the game that they are basically training missions 
 but I think they could have at least ramped up the difficulty a bit on the third and fourth missions. 
 It isn't really that hard a game to learn, after all. But the final mission of the first campaign 
 I found to be impossibly difficult. If I played it again and again perhaps I would have figured 
 it out but I cheated to complete it to see what the next campain was like. Ubisoft/Nival should 
 have allowed players to play each campaign without finishing all the missions and perhaps provided 
 an option to read a summary of the game story so people don't have to play the whole game just 
 to get the story.
  
  The next two missions of the next campaign were about right. Not too easy and not too hard. And 
 I enjoyed playing them very much. But in the next mission I found the going a bit tough again.
 
  
  The game is designed so that you have to complete it reasonably efficiently. Your hero can only 
 move so far. Then his turn ends and a day has passed. The game has a fog of war ie screen blacked 
 out where you haven't yet explored and so you have to experiment a bit to work out where to go 
 eg where the red tent is to obtain the border pass etc. As you explore the map the computer AI 
 is getting stronger and stronger. If it takes too long to find what you want the enemy creatures 
 may be too strong and hence the need to play again with greater knowledge of where to go. I did 
 not have the patience to be bothered doing that on mission 3 of campaign 2, having felt I experienced 
 enough of the game and so stopped playing there. There are so many games and so little time... 
 But at least the game allows you to save whenever you like so it is not that much hassle to back 
 track as long as you remember to keep saving.
  
  The game's main challenge is the turn based fighting. Throughout most of the first campaign you 
 can win the battles without thinking much but you have to think about it more in the second campaign.
 
  
  You can right click units (both your own and enemy) to see their hit points (how much damage they'll 
 take) , attack strength, defence strength and modifiiers such as magic curses etc. I guess you could 
 use a calculator to work out the odds but that would kind of spoil the fun. Different units also 
 have different initiative (how often they get a chance to attack) , different speed (how far they 
 can move each turn on the combat grid) and your Hero can also cast magic to try to change the course 
 of battle. So it is strategically quite complicated.
  
  I found the best way to minimise losses and try to work out the strategy was to save the game after 
 each battle, work out the dollar value of units I'd lost and then try playing again to see how 
 many I lost. Another complicating factor is that sometimes the opponent can retaliate and sometimes 
 they can't. Sometimes it is better to have your unit increase his defence strength by waiting rather 
 than being slaughtered. Having said that, I never really properly worked out the strategy for the 
 turn based battles but I read in the forum there are certain tricks to it. I guess for some players 
 half the fun would be working out this strategy but it would have been nice if the manual could 
 give some hints on how to at least work out the appropriate strategy since there are a lot of things 
 to think about and no-one really wants to pull out their calculator every time there's a battle.
 
  
  Perhaps the main fault with the game is lack of information. You see some neutral units on the 
 screen and you have to choose whether to attack them (which provides the opportunity for them to 
 join you if you're lucky or gain experience with minimal/no loss if they're much weaker than you) . 
 You can right click the army and it will give an idea of how many there are (horde, pack etc but 
 even then the game manual doesn't say exactly what this means or whether a horde is bigger than 
 a pack) and there is no easy way to know how strong they are (attack strength, defence etc) . Fortunately 
 I was able to download and print out a hefty game guide that explains it all but it is a real pain 
 having to flip through all those pages all the time.
  
  Overall, this is an enjoyable and farily addictive, if somewhat repetitive game that fits into 
 the a few minutes to learn but long time to master category . Well worth playing for something 
 different - at least for around 10 to 20 hours or so before it becomes too tedious.
  
  One final point - I really loved the orchestral music. It fitted the game perfectly and made me 
 wish I had a better sound system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_666
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Throughout the first campaign I was really excited about Heroes 5.
  The story was great right from the start and for a while it was entertaining to explore every inch 
 of the really beautifully crafted maps, but after that the gameplay itself became boring, because 
 basically you'll follow the same routine at the start of every map. Almost every time you'll start 
 of with a small army, so you're forced to explore the map looking for resources, experience for 
 your hero and for other creatures who want to join you. After a while you'll be able to attack 
 a city, in which you're able to recruit more troops, but not after rebuilding the city basically 
 from its ruins. You are only allowed to build one structure per turn, so it takes a lot of time 
 till you're able to add the most powerful creatures to your army. I admit I'm exaggerating a bit 
 here, but believe me when I say that this almost constant need to build your army from the bottom 
 up gets very annoying.
  The missions themselves are well designed and tied very tightly to the story, which is a good thing, 
 because the story is surprisingly epic and all you good hope for in a round-based strategy game, 
 but the maps are too big and as I said it's annoying to do so much buildup every time.
  I don't criticise games for being too long very often, but that's exactly the case with Heroes 
 5. If the whole game would take about 3/4 or even 1/2 the time it took me to finish it, the gameplay 
 wouldn't seem so well-worn after a while.
  The story makes sticking with the game till the end really worth it though. The characters are 
 believable and each one of them has different style and attitude. The voice acting, well sound 
 overall, is almost perfect.
  So if you're someone who likes exploring every inch of a fantasy world, if you don't mind repetitive 
 gameplay and if you're generally a fan of turn-based strategy games, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komanko
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Heroes 5,
  There is people that saying this game is not good i should not buy it, or i dont like this game 
 its dont worth then first of all i say try it first' you can download the demo and you'll see that 
 this game is very good, the story in the game is very good and their is a big graphic expansion 
 since heroes 3 and 4, the system of playing is a bit difficult but with time you'll learn how to 
 control it and you would see how it is useful, i think that more people should try this game and 
 they would have fun even if not for long time, but it would be fun, the gameplay of this game is 
 very different, not only this game but the whole sires of HOMAM the way you control over your cities 
 and minions its very different its not like in Warcraft 3 that you have peasants that would gather 
 wood or gold you have here one hero or more that you'll guide him in all the story (campaign) or 
 in the skirmish, this game is a turn based and its a lot of fun to play with experienced people 
 that play HOMAM for long time, it is right that their is some lacks in graphics or bugs but with 
 new updates ubisoft fixing them and the game become even more fun when like in MMORPG games their 
 is updates that change things and do them better,
  in the last time i tell to all the people that say is suck to come and try first, and i think they 
 will enjoy the game very much.
  
  Yours Yuval (komanko) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaOStreet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  For all of you who already played one of its predecessors, I recommend not to get this.
  It does nothing better, just many things worse. And the new addon is just the same crap, but even 
 more useless, of course the addons did not often really shine.
  For any fan of the series this can only be a huge let down. So its obviously a Toal Letdown. Serious 
 you are better off with getting Heroes 1 or 2 anytime, not to mention heroes 4 or even 3!
  
  As I said before if you never played any heroes game and are to lazy to find the old ones you 
 might still get this and be amazed by its crappiness, even though you probably will thinks its 
 kinda nice not knowing the real stuff you cant be blamed to much for it, maybe, I would blame you 
 anyway!
  
  Brought to you by NinjaOStreet, the raging one, check me out on YouTube or donate money, dont know 
 how? Better contact me right now. Or you will be sorry later. Wait... actually I dont really care. 
 So just donate... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I've played every HOMM game, and i must indead say, that it is my farvorite turn based strategy 
 series. It's simple, though funny, and easy to get into.
  
  What is the best thing about this installment, is the graphics. It is nice with 3D graphics, and 
 units even looks good, when you zoom right into them. Towns aso looks amazing. The best looking 
 towns is after my oppinion the acedemy town, the inferno town and the sylvan town. I like the haven 
 towns style with the huge castle, but ground textures looks kinda blurry, when zoomed in. The game 
 might have some slow frame rates on some computers, but it is turn based, so you can forgive that.
 
  
  Every HOMM game has it's great orchestral theme, which gives the game a good atmostphere. I especially 
 like the Sylvan town music.
  
  Gameplay hasen't gotten the big changes here though. It reminds much of HOMM III's gameplay. New 
 updates is, that your hero can attack enemies, but i better liked in HOMM IV, where your hero were 
 in the heat of battle, and weren't acting as a spellcasting crowd. Replay value has fallen since 
 the ealier HOMM games, since that there is a pretty limited selections of maps to play, which is 
 disappointing, when thinking of that in every HOMM game, there has been a huge ammount of maps. 
 Another bad thing is that there is no EDITOR. Well i haven't checked, if theres's a downloadable 
 one, but still this is very bad. It's also very easy, when comparing it to the older HOMM games.
 
  
  HOMM V is good, if you want a turn based game. It might not feature anything new, but still, it 
 is a funny and enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The Heroes of Might and Magic franchise used to be the best of the best when it came to fantasy 
 turn based strategy games. But ever since the release of Heroes of Might and Magic III, the series 
 has been going down hill rather quickly. With New World Computing, the developer behind the series, 
 going out of business, the future of the Might and Magic series was in question. But then Ubisoft 
 announced that it secured the rights to the Might and Magic series and that Nival Interactive would 
 be developing a sequel. Most people seriously doubted whether or not Nival could actually breathe 
 new life into a series which most already considered dead and buried. So expectations were not 
 exactly high for this sequel. The good news is that Nival surprisingly managed to resurrect Heroes 
 of Might and Magic from the dead and bring back its charm it had lost over the years. If you have 
 played either Heroes II or III, then you should know exactly what you are getting into in this 
 game since it shares a lot in common with both of those. You start off most games with one hero 
 and a low level castle. From there you must build up your armies to crush your enemies. But to 
 do that you must go exploring, fight enemies, and build up your castle. The amount you can move 
 is based on a daily allowance. Once you have moved all you can, you must end your turn. This moves 
 the game ahead one day, allowing you to rest and giving the other players a chance to make their 
 moves.
  
  The maps are filled with resource to collect, artifacts to find, enemies to defeat, dungeons to 
 explore, towns to capture, and much more. Capturing mines will put them under your control, giving 
 you a set amount of that particular resource per day. But many of the resources on the map are 
 guarded by neutral creatures, so you will have to fight to control them.
  
  Battles take place on a grid with one army on the left and another on the right. Both sides take 
 turns moving their creatures. A unit with a number on it represents a stack of that many creatures 
 and will behave as a single unit. The amount each unit can move depends on its initiative, with 
 faster units attacking first. The amount of damage they do depends on the creatures stats as well 
 as how many units are in that stack. Many units have their own special abilities that they can 
 use in combat. Also, heroes can directly attack units as well or cast spells with their turn comes 
 up. There are over 100 different unit types in the game, giving a good amount of depth to the combat 
 system. Knowing what units to attack and when to attack them is extremely important, as is positioning 
 your troops on the battlefield and effectively casting spells. The AI does a pretty good job playing 
 smart and will keep you thinking during these battles. When you win, your hero will gain experience 
 that you can use to learn new abilities. There are tons of different skills that you can gain, 
 way too many to list, but they range from having your troops take less damage from melee attacks 
 to being able to move greater distances each turn. No two heroes will have exactly the same set 
 of skills, making each of them somewhat unique.
  
  With all of the resources you collect, you will be able to upgrade your castle. There are a few 
 different types of structures you can build. Some of them will allow you to recruit new types of 
 units for your army while others, such as the mage guild, will teach you new spells. Some buildings 
 will add defenses to your castle like turrets and others will increase the population growth of 
 all your creature dwellings per week. The buildings you can create are listed in a tree diagram, 
 which is similar to some RTS games. Many buildings have requirements that must be met before you 
 are allowed to build them. Building your structure that gives you your best units before your opponents 
 get theirs will give you a pretty good advantage in battles.
  
  The single player game in Heroes V consists of six different campaigns, each of which consists 
 of five separate missions. The storyline in the game is actually decent and is told through various 
 in engine cutscenes. While the storyline and voice acting isnt anything special, it is good enough 
 to keep you interested. Each mission has multiple primary and secondary objectives to complete 
 in order to finish it. All of the missions are pretty well designed too, with lots to see and do. 
 Most of the missions take multiple hours to complete, making Heroes V a pretty long game. The game 
 also features a few stand-alone missions as well as a few multiplayer maps. You can play the multiplayer 
 maps over the internet, a LAN, or in hot-seat mode where you and a few friends take turns playing 
 on a single PC. Multiplayer missions end when you destroy the other players hero and capture his 
 castle so he can not recruit another hero. This can take a pretty long time, meaning online matches 
 can easily take a few hours to complete. Also, waiting for other players to take their turns can 
 be pretty boring, making the online multiplayer not very appealing.
  
  If the games storyline doesnt suck you into the world, the games fantastic graphics probably 
 will. Heroes V is the first game in the series to make the jump into a fully 3D world. The game 
 features a pretty good art style. Everything in the world is beautiful with a good amount of detail 
 in their textures. All of the trees and water animate, as well as many of the buildings, which 
 makes the world come alive. The combat animations, especially those of spells, look pretty cool. 
 Although, it is a bit annoying that the characters mouths dont move when they talk during the 
 cutscenes. Also, sometimes you will have to rotate the camera around to see past buildings and 
 trees. But overall the games 3D graphics is a great addition to the series.
  
  Overall, Heroes V feels like an updated remake of Heroes III, which is great considering that many 
 feel that Heroes III was the best in the series. The combat and tactics are as solid as ever, and 
 the 3D graphics and interesting enough campaign make the game extremely fun to play. If you consider 
 yourself a turn based strategy game fan, Heroes V is a game you should seriously consider picking 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcmembers
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic, as you would hopefully expect, puts a lot of emphasis on heroes and 
 the armies that follow them. they developed some features but I should say it still has the lack 
 of diversity, just the same stuff with just better quality there should be some Creativity or it 
 will be another copy of turn-based games.
  
  After three successful iterations, fans were wondering if it could maintain its standard of best. 
 some say it managed to do this but I don't think so. Of course they developed lots of stuffs in 
 compare to last versions but in general they did not bring something new to the world of turn-based 
 games
  
  one of the disadvantages in game play is that in each Week in game both enemy and specially neutral 
 units unfairly gain lots of powers and sometimes after some month it is almost impossible to Defeat 
 them, so this fact will rush you to finish the game in few turns ,and this is what Turn-base games 
 are not about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maak27
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is very frustrating, to say the least. You complete 3 hours of a map to find out that 
 some of the monsters you had destroyed are needed to complete the quest. On top of that, there 
 are plenty of bugs; the AI is extremely uneven; no excitement; and the story is uneventful and 
 boring. I would rather go back and play the last 4 truly exceptional HOMM games, than to spend 
 2 more seconds on this turd. It is sad because all the game really needed was a frsh update and 
 an intersting story. All of the other ingredients were there already.
  
  Do not under any circumstances, waste your time on this one. Run the other way screaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestrateger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Heroes of might and magic is a great game with great graphics and great, Reviewer's Tilt and more 
 great things.
  
  i want to play in the game :) ,but i cant : (, i see before 3 moths my friend play on this game 
 and the game was awesome and the game was so fast and in the campaign of the game i saw some short 
 films and i saw an awesome graphics ans sounds.
  
  and i'm think my grading was very easy because the game was so good, and so easy to grading it.
 
  
  so my last words to all the gamers are reading my review is:
  heroes of might and magic v, is an amazing role playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Why, oh why. Why do they have to do that? With Heroes of Might and Magic V and Dark Messiah of 
 might and magic, they had great titles, but ruined them with bugs. Heroes V's case is less severe, 
 but still, why do they have to do it? But not counting does bugs, this is a great game, especially 
 after the release of their 3 patches.
  
  Upgrade from 2D graphic to 3D was well done both on map and the town without losing too much of 
 game's uniqueness. The game sounds great as well as the transition of the music from the town to 
 the map is good, and they also well represent the race you are currently playing. My personal favourite 
 is Elf's town theme by the way. Listen to it if you get a chance. It's just great.
  
  Not much of change in gameplay in the fifth version, but they did choose to do the right thing 
 as they brought back the unit upgrade which disappeared in 4th version for some reason. However, 
 new mode of gameplay is a welcome addition, as it comes with a new instant duel mode. This mode 
 lets you choose a hero with all units ready and jump into the battle against your friend or computer 
 right away. You can either play 1 vs 1 or 3 vs 3 duel mode using either multiplay over lan or hotseat. 
 While this mode is pretty awesome as you get to start pretty intense battle right away, but there 
 are some balancing issue of one hero being too powerful over others. Also, if you are playing hotseat 
 mode and if your hero uses fire trap spell, your opponent can see the trap when it gets to your 
 turn, so those kind of spell can be quite useless.
  
  After successful transition from 2D to 3D with great add-ons and a few annoying bugs, this is a 
 highly recommended game for both die hard fan of old Heroes series and for those who never played 
 these games before. With great graphic, sound and gameplay all added together, this game earns 
 8.5 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archeon_1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, this game is one of my favourites for the PC, and my favourite RTS game ever! I love 
 this game because there is so much to immerse yourself in, either in the gameplay or storyline. 
 This Heroes had my favourite gameplay, and the best graphics from the series. I really enjoyed 
 all of the other Heroes, but this is my favourite, and i'm happy to have it in my collection. It's 
 an addictive game that will get you playing for a good few hours. Each level was alot of fun, and 
 had a different and new experience. This Heroes also had THE MOST CRAZY COOL CASTLES EVER!! and 
 it'll be hard to make another Heroes to top this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  HOMM II &amp; III in my opinion, were two of the best turn based fantasy strategy game ever. Right 
 up there along with classics like Masters of Magic.
  
  The mechanics are simple, but yet intuitive and addictive. Building up heroes was the whole point 
 of the game as the heroes confer bonuses to his/her troops. The seires faltered with HOMM IV which 
 abandoned this tried and tested winning forumla.
  
  Fortunately, this has been now rectified with this latest incarnation of the series.
  
  The 
 new 3D environment is nice, as are the nice cutscenes and stunning sound track. However, I still 
 have resevations concerning the use of 3D engine for this genre as I find sometimes it obscures 
 the view of structure and treasures.
  
  Top down may seem outdated and aesthetically unaccepatble to most developpers but nonetheless, 
 it is still the most effective. Perhaps the addition of 'flags' may ameliorate the problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  If you are a HOMM fand and have played the entire series you will be relieved to find out that 
 the game folows the style of the first 3 and mainly the 3rd one.
  
  The races are back and so are upgraded creatures. Your hero will only be defeated if you lose the 
 battle and you need a hero to lead your army. No more chosing which troop to build becouse you 
 can build them all, and last but not least spells are like the ones in the 3rd game of this series 
 which means you can do them at your heroes turn from a spellbook and during the entire battle.
 
  
  The game has also introduced some new interesting features such as a much more detailed battlefield 
 and the otion to turn your camera to see the battlefield from any angle preventing the amazing 
 3D graphics to come in the way of gameplay.
  Similarily goes on the free map which can also bet turned at almost any angle.
  
  Some of the 
 less popular features of this game is the main sotry line which sound a bit made up and less facinating 
 as the first 3 were but it still is nice.
  Also the new building system could use some tweeks since the building doesen't leave as much to 
 strategy as it did in alll the previos games.
  
  Overall this game is great fun game and if you have a few friend you can battle them online leaving 
 you time to do something else in between your turns as a 4 player map can take up to 10~15 minutes 
 untill your turn comes back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sans123
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  well its been a long time reviewing a might n magic game. this game has continiued the legacy of 
 hmm3 .but there r some glitches like normal mode is way toooo easy and next level can crack ur 
 bones. there is no linearty while viewing this aspect of game. the game also dosnt carry forward 
 the immortal charactersof hmm3 which reside in our hearts.
  
  But beside these the game offers some jawdropping graphics .
  
  many units have their own unique 
 ability which can even slice between bigger creatures.
  
  turns though keep us waiting for long but as the game progresses it starts throwing some surprises 
 at us. game ai is something which will surely gain ur respect.
  
  factions interface is brilliant nonetheless. 3d view of city is a treat to watch.
  
  combat 
 mode is also a eye candy but camera angles could have been better. airborne units provide immence 
 joy special mention here of GRIFFIN .
  it has infinite retalliation strikes .Just ensure that it wud not fall in its first strike take 
 it ahead n see smaller units die all due to its retalliation strike!!!!!!
  
  well frnd this is all i cud write for now but trust me this review contains only 10% of the total 
 fun. stay updated for more . waheguru ji ka khalsa waheguru ji ki fateh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenCapka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is enjoyable from the outset. It does make several improvements to the formula and game 
 system. No need to go into the formula too much here. However, after a few scenarios it became 
 difficult to keep interest in the game and try to finish even 1 of the campaigns.
  
  The game becomes too much of build for a week, recruit, then use several heroes to shuttle the 
 troops around. Why not use a system whereby the troops show up in the selected city when they are 
 ready. In other words, too much micromanagement is needed.
  
  Still, the battles themselves remain engaging as always, with just enough of a strategic element 
 to keep the game fun. Now if they could just eliminate the bus driving, the game would be improved.
 
  
  If you are interested in the game play the free demo 1st as it provides a good representation of 
 the full game. The game seems just a bit too much More Of The Same thing after awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafreak2080
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is pretty much the same game as Heroes III. There aren't that many changes but I 
 will list a few. One of them is that your town now has a level. Some buildingd require that your 
 city be a certain level. This is a good change because now if you're playing multiplayer or something 
 then your opponent won't have an archangel by the end of the first week. However this next one 
 isn't big it helps a little in combat. On the combat screen there is a bar at the bottom showing 
 the order the monsters go in so you can plan your strategy a little better. Also in battle your 
 hero gets their own individual turn and they don't have to cast a spell. They can ride or run up 
 to a monster and attack. The good side to this is that the monster won't retaliate. The bad side 
 is that your hero isn't that strong. Also in battle some monsters now have their own spellbook 
 so you can choose what spell they cast.
  
  Graphics: As you can see this is the first 3D or completely 3D Heroes game. Don't be fooled by 
 the camera angle in Heroes IV, it's not 3D. When you have all the settings on max it looks really 
 good. However if you have an old computer you will expierence a good bit of lag. Also there is 
 a completely free roaming camera, however you can change this to classic Heroes camera where it 
 is facing down from the sky. The "In Town Screen" looks absolutely beautiful! You have a completely 
 free roaming camera to some extent. In every town the entire city is built around one central thing. 
 Like in the Sylvan Town, it's a giant tree. In the Demon town it's a giant pillar sticking out 
 of a volcano. 
  
  Sound: Heroes is know for its great soundtracks and this game is no exception. While you are in 
 your town screen there will be that famous Heroes music playing in the background with the opera 
 singers and all that stuff. However Heroes isn't know for its voice acting. Actualy voice acting 
 is really bad I mean REALLY bad. The poor people that were hired to do this have absolutely no 
 emotion what so ever. Also the battle crys from the monsters are pretty flat too and certainly 
 not brimming with enthusiasm.
  
  Value: The whole campaign is very long and there are some missions that are extremely hard. Some 
 missions took me a few weeks to complete. Once you finish the campaign which will take you a good 
 couple months, then there are the multiplayer and custom maps. In this game to start they have 
 around 50 (geussing) but Ubisoft is continuing to put out new patches which keep adding more and 
 more maps.
  
  Overall this is a great game and my favorite game in the series. Heroes IV kind of strayed away 
 from the formula but Ubisoft has fixed that and brought Heroes back to its full glory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocur
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Let me confess first that I'm one of the older fans of the whole Heroes of Might and Magic series 
 and I played it very intensive and passionate from its very first game, now about 13 years old.
 
  
  This series reached its climax with Heroes IV few years ago. The possibilities of expoloration, 
 game features, numbers and varieties of monsters, artefacts, magic, combat options, tactics, RPG-elements 
 (skills and development of heroes) reached its maximum. Heroes V is a step, no, its a jump back. 
 It is as if you would bring a perfectionalized high-tech product from a university back to the 
 grammar school.
  
  The only real new innovation compared with Heroes III and IV is the (nice but quite average) polygon 
 graphics. Every other feature has been reduced:
  
  - Due to the graphics the maps are much smaller than in the predecessors games. Therefore they 
 contain fewer objects, object and terrain types. For me this is the major flaw, because it completely 
 abandons the once strong adventure and exploration feeling. The epical side of the game and the 
 series has been crippled.
  
  - Fewer castle-types and as mentioned also fewer monster types, fewer artefacts (although the idea 
 of creation of an own artefact is really good) .
  
  - The whole interface is not very transparent and definitely not that intuitive and user friendly 
 as it was by the earlier games.
  
  - Also a very large map you will finish (or at last explore) quite soon.
  
  - The whole story 
 is not much of worth, if feels quite uninspired and exhausted.
  
  - Only three difficulty levels.
  
  Another issues I noticed:
  
  - The game is also in the 
 normal mode quite hard. If you try carefully to build up your castle so that you will have all 
 and the maximum number of every creature very soon, secure all necessary ressources and win battles 
 with minimal losses, the AI will always outnumber you. Despite of the fact that it doesn't care 
 about the mines and battles so as you do.
  
  - Another evidence that the AI is cheating is, that its heroes march directly to your unprotected 
 castle regardless of the fact that the AI players never explored your territory before.
  
  - During the combat I painfully miss the wait option. It may be something very marginal, but it 
 gave much more strategic depth to the battles, if you could better plan and calculate your moves.
 
  
  - The graphics are quite nice but not more. Compared with a modern action or RPG game they are 
 average if not simple and for a strategy game with game depth expectations they are hindering. 
 And this is in first place a strategy game.
  
  Like already gumpo wrote before, if you are new in the series and you like this genre, you may 
 love it. But the series ended with Heroes IV. I can hardly imagine that there could be an improvement 
 of a nearly perfect product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sith-lord83
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  Well done Ubi, great job on taking over the Heroes of Might and Magic name. Kick ass game. I reccomend 
 anyone who is thinking of getting this game to get it cos you will be doing yourself a favour. 
 Great graphics with a cool cinimatic camera in the town and also in combat. Also the fights are 
 not statick lick the previous games, some of the units have very cool fighting actions. The diversity 
 of the different races is great as each race has its won spacial skill that no onw else can have. and 
 the level up system is fantastic adding a really good element of strategy to your game play. Giggidi 
 Giggidi Goo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanTanner
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  With yet another Heroes of Might and Magic game out, one is left to wonder when they will take 
 the series to the next level. This has nearly got there since IV and if another title comes out 
 it will certainly get right to the top of everygamers CD spindle. With each game growing one the 
 previous one, you would think this one would have equal graphics to Oblivion, or higher. Most models 
 in this game seemed, sharp if you will. It seemed as if they hadnt been smoothed out like usual. 
 Although the sound in the game was awesome, the graphics let it down. Other then that the game 
 will blow your mind. With hours of gameplay, you will never get bored. I play with the computers 
 as hard as they can go and its just awesome! Although they have more forces and power you will 
 be able to over come that by stalking there towns and capturing them at will.
  
  So to some up, this game as AWESOME gameplay, sound and value, seems you can play it over and over. 
 I have tried many graphics settings and nothing really seems to kick it up. The graphics are just 
 plain bad, numbers 4's were better. Other wise go buy it, its worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshff8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  5 years ago, in 2001, I spent the last $20 of my hannukah money on the Heroes 2000 gold pack. It 
 included Heroes 1, 2 and 3 basic versions. I shrugged off 1 and 2, and was enveloped in the gameplay 
 of Heroes 3. it's turnbased army building core was fantastic, with hours upon hours of addicting 
 gameplay. Now, in 2006 you can expect the same from Heroes 5. The story is nothing to write home 
 about in the first half, but the dungeon campaign really stood out for me in terms of playability 
 and plot. You basically control a city and are able to build economic and military buildings from 
 it. by recruiting special race distinctive units from each town, you raise an army to be led by 
 the main hero, or general charecter. Heroes can increase their weapon attacks and spell knowledge 
 and magic power. Also they can have artifacts which increase skills of the hero or creature in 
 an army. With a deeper hero system, now each hero has a special ability, such as releasing a volley 
 of arrows before the main combat or being able to control any undead creatures you encounter. The 
 graphics, even turned down all the way on my crap computer, are gorgeous, and the sound is nothing 
 great but a few tracks are epic and stsy in your head. This is a great title for any strategy game 
 fan, or even a fantasy gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  YAYs: enormous campaign; very good story; detailed graphics; interesting missions; wonderful musical 
 score; plenty of things to do; lots of strategy involved; installation is of a very decent size; 
 after difficult levels you get an easy one.
  
  NAYs: punishing difficulty; enemies in particular levels are God-like; enemy unit tends to capture 
 stationary neutral creatures to add to army; in large maps you get heavily outnumbered; frame rate 
 bogs down quite a lot; waiting for your turn takes some time; having to wait for no one in solo 
 levels is pointless.
  
  I am pretty new to the Heroes universe but I was given the advice to give the game a shot. And 
 I am glad I did. Although Heroes V suffers from numerous major setbacks, it still proved to be 
 a game worth of owning and playing.
  
  The game starts in the pretty standard way as most RPGs do - everything is perfectly fine until 
 something goes horribly wrong in the worst time possible. Our heroes begin a royal wedding ceremony 
 and, in the middle of it, get assaulted by demons who somehow got through the city and into the 
 church. The bride runs away escorted by the guards while the wonderfully hair-styled prince fights 
 off the demons. The pissed off soon-to-be queen vows revenge and calls to arms.
  
  You begin by playing Izabel, the queen, but throughout the game you get to play as other heroes 
 who all eventually tie into the story. And yes, you do play as the demons, so you get to be sadistic 
 for 1/5th of the game. As you would expect, not all the different kingdoms are allied, so before 
 you have to face off the great devil you would be basically trying on a subconscious level to unite 
 the kingdoms against the common goal. If this feels like a Tolkein novel you'd be on the right 
 track. Unfortunately, though, many things are predictable and standard, and there are no unpredictable 
 twists except one or two, and yet the game gives you 5 to 6 hours to figure the twist out on your 
 own.
  
  Yes, 5 to 6 hours is the number of hours you would be spending on most missions, and some maps 
 require you to invest even more time. The early maps are regular in size and pretty much linear 
 with nothing to do except bash your way towards the end. Very soon however you would be greeted 
 with enormous maps that take you two to three hours to uncover all the fog of war there. Some maps, 
 interestingly, are even multi-leveled, so you get your standard above-the-ground level with all 
 the trees and lakes and deserts, then you suddenly face a stairs that takes you into a cavern below 
 just as enormous as the ground level.
  
  Frustratingly, with all that distance to cover, you have to keep track of your heroe's assets and 
 must have at least one standing town. If you fail that, you are given a game week (basically 7 
 turns) to capture a town or you will fail the mission. Usually you have enough time to do that, 
 however, if you have misplanned or strayed too far away, you would most likely be loading an earlier 
 save point. What is more unfortunate is that you are unaware of how many enemy heroes are there, 
 although techincally you can estimate by how long the enemy takes to finish a turn. This means 
 that even if you killed one or two heroes, you'd never know that one may be hiding somewhere waiting 
 for you to leave then attack your stronghold. This forces you to hire additional heroes yourselves, 
 but, eventually you would realize how tiring it is to keep up with your main hero, different heroes 
 and all their units plus the finances (you DO have to hire units, right?) .
  
  This process could have been made easier if the AI was not impossibly aggressive. You would actually 
 feel the hatred emanating from them as they pound you into the "You Lose" screen. What is more 
 unfair is that fact that you have to collect money by defeating enemies or from gold mines in order 
 to pruchase units from your stronghold, while your enemy heroes can literally pick up any neutral 
 creature on the map. If you however face a neutral creature, if you are statistically more impressive 
 and attractive than the neutral player they will join you, otherwise they will attack you, and, 
 worst yet, if you are too powerful they would simply flee. And if they do attack you, most likely 
 some of your units would be killed. In the end, two hours into the level you would realize how 
 outnumbered you are and try your best to finish the level without getting killed or captured, and 
 praying that one of the objectives is not killing the enemy hero.
  
  That said, the game does reward you intensively for defeating an enemy hero by taking their artifacts 
 and being supplied with a lot of gold. Unfortunately though you cannot carry those on to the next 
 level, so unless you defeat a secondary enemy hero, collecting those big artifacts is pretty pointless. 
 To compensate, you do find some artifacts on your path, usually guarded by a beast as strong as 
 the artifact itself - so it is up to you to decide if you are willing to sacrifice half your soldiers 
 for an artifact. Artifacts usually affect the hero's attack and defense, but valuable artifacts 
 affect all your units, so if you are in a big map you would be willing to go into needless fights 
 to get them.
  
  Thankfully though, after a particularly difficult mission, the game offers you a very easy mission 
 to accomplish. The maps perhaps are even bigger, but usually easy maps do not involve enemy heroes 
 so you are pretty much free to collect and massacre anything you like till you reach your goal. 
 Of course you do get massacred as well if you attack a big beast with an unequipped army, but at 
 least you have the freedom to kill that beast later at your own will without having to worry about 
 anything else.
  
  The battles themselves function like an animated chess game. You place your units on the invisible 
 chess board and you commence with the attack. Numbers on units indicate how many of those type 
 of creatures is present, or in a more conventional term, a health bar. Units are able to move a 
 certain number of squares depending on their weight and type, and they can attack one, two or more 
 enemies at a time depending on their class and the enemy's position on the grid. Unlike other chess-like 
 games though, attacking from behind or from the side does not inflict more damage and most certainly 
 does not eliminate a counter strike. This information is given as soon as you highlight an enemy. 
 When it is the turn of one of your enemy units and that unit is in attacking range, hovering the 
 mouse over the unfortunate enemy unit will give you information of how many units would be killed 
 and whether or not you would be receiving a counter strike. This is useful information if you are 
 cornered as you would not want one of your units to hit an enemy dragon and let the dragon kill 
 that unit and all surrounding units with its flame. The information however does not give any indication 
 on how much you would be damaging the enemy if the kill count is zero or whether you woould be 
 inflicting a critical attack, so there is always some room for surprises. There is also a "turn 
 bar" at the bottom of the screen that shows you the order of the units that will be attacking, 
 so it is helpful to plan out your attacks using it.
  
  Battles do take some time though, especially if both armies are of large numbers or if you are 
 attacking one or two very powerful enemies. You could speed up the battle using the options to 
 insane levels, but you would be sucking up a lot of pain killers and increasing the load on your 
 graphics card since it has to render the whole battle and effects at higher frame rates.
  
  Your heroes does not get attacked in battle, fortunately, however he or she will be killed if the 
 army is killed. The presence of the hero in battle is usually to cast supportive magic, increase 
 morale, and inflict mass damage using spells if you are equipped to do so. Often you would be sticking 
 to certain magic, especially Mass Slow, and if you're very sadistic you would call on Armageddon 
 and destroy both your army and the enemy's army, although it is pretty much undetermined which 
 units would stay alive to call it a victory.
  
  Although the battle scenes are usually not eye-candy so it can render the armies and spells well, 
 the overworld is very luch and vibrant and full of life, depending on how high you set it to be. 
 On the lowest possible level the game is a sad affair to play, so you would be willing to throw 
 away some performance to get a good look at the world. Enemy units are usually detailed and magestic 
 and animate well. It always seems to be windy, so all units and trees seem to enjoy wind effects 
 and have their magistic flames or dresses or flags flail everywhere. Minor details also add to 
 the experience, like the fire of the demons diminishing after you kill them or have angel feathers 
 spread everywhere when an Archangel gets killed (now that is a sentence I never thought I would 
 type!) .
  
  Soundwise, the game is splendid. Battle music is sometimes varied but always interesting, although 
 you tend to hear the first part a lot unless it is a big battle that allows you to listen to the 
 whole track. The overworld music often reflects the mood of the level or the type of hero. Playing 
 the Demon Lord calls on for unearthly music while playing as elves you would be experiencing heaven. 
 The whole music list is provided as .ogg files in the installation directory so you cna listen 
 to them whenever you wish, although they are a bit low on bitrate.
  
  Overall, while the game has some major shortcomings, it is both fun and frustrating to play through. 
 If you're a casual gamer you would want to stay far from it because of its difficulty, unless you 
 get the cheats and grant yourself an infinite number of units at your disposal. Otherwise, if you're 
 looking for an insane, punishing difficulty and a rewarding gameplay with many hours to spare, 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  heroes of might and magic continues its legendery series with the fifth installment. Ubisoft and 
 Nival Interactive has again done a great job with the series enhancing on the gameplay and strategy 
 elements. The game has a lot to offer than blood and gore, it has great graphics and easy controls. 
 Even though the game kind of picks up from where it left even a first timer will have fun and understand 
 it perfectly fine. The gameplay and AI
  have been enhanced to make it seem a little hard. the game offers many things that helps us to 
 make decisions. Anyway Heroes of might and magic V is a ambitious and exciting game for anyone who 
 likes a great FTBS game Thank You 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  Im probably gonna get a little flamed for this review, but its my honest opinion of the game. Please 
 keep in mind that im a long-time fan of the entire Might and Magic series and their spin offs, 
 and it has a serious effect on what i personally think of this game.
  
  Let me start by saying that Heroes V is probably a game a lot of people could enjoy. It has some 
 of the best graphics in the turn based strategy world, and some of the best strategy elements you 
 could ask for in a game. Im not going to go into detail about what the game is about, or how it 
 works. If you dont know that already, then this review really isnt something you need to bother 
 reading, because if you havn't played any of the former entries in the series, you'll probably 
 find Heroes V is an extremely enjoyable game - seriously, if you dont know what Heroes is all about, 
 go read gamespots review and even go pick up a copy.
  
  However - If your a fan of the old Might and Magic games, as i am, read on and find out why i was 
 let down with this installation of the classic series.
  
  First and most importantly, Ubisoft seems to have dropped all of the "Might and Magic" out of their 
 new Might and Magic games. That is to say, both Heroes V and the upcoming Dark Messiah are based 
 in a new setting, with an all new world, story, creatures, and pretty much everything else you 
 can think of. For me, this tattered the game.
  Placing "Might and Magic" in the name of a game should garuntee me some of the classic characters 
 and monsters i've grown to love. Perhaps the evil Necromancer Sandro? Or King Roland? Nope. About 
 the only thing that made it into this "Might and Magic" game was the dragons, and thats probably 
 just because everyone knows dragons are cool.
  To me, dismissing the past stories created in the Might and Magic universe completely kills much 
 of the game. If they had placed the story in a spot so that it re-created a story, or made a new 
 story after the events of a previous game, i would have probably enjoyed the game a lot more.
 
  
  Second, the graphics heavy nature of this new version of Heroes V does more to degrade gameplay 
 than help it. Loading times are actually present for a change, and town screens are hard to navigate, 
 and while certainly more detailed then those found in Heroes IV, they still dont have the same 
 depth as Heroes III's towns had.
  Navigating the world map also becomes much more difficult, as there are now multiple viewing angles. 
 As well, with the jump to truely 3D graphics, it means you cant play Heroes V on the same huge 
 range of systems as you could play any of the others on.
  
  Third, there is virtually no multiplayer component in the core game, and no easy to use map making 
 tool or random map generator. For me, the fun of the originals was playing with a friend or two 
 against a few computers or against eachother. In Heroes II's expansion, we got a random map generator. 
 Eventually, Heroes III got one too. Hereos IV never did, but it, as well as all the others, at 
 least included a map editor, which meant a fairly active online community of mappers would regularly 
 be releasing new maps to play against your friends with.
  
  Basically, Heroes V is a good game. It just isnt a Might and Magic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faladore
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  The game is generally good and it starts out fun. However it quickly becomes difficult not strategy 
 wise but time wise. It takes for ever to finish 1 mission. I like the previous versions but enjoy 
 real time strategy games like WC3. Taking a week to get units and loosing most of your army creeping 
 to then get jumped by the enemy with an enormous amount of troops is kind of lame. Also what is 
 up with giving the enemy such strong armys. Anyways even though it is a decent game overall im 
 not impressed. However, if you like spending loads of time on a mission this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazypete81
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of this series and have played every one. I really like this one alot but...
 
  
  - I don't like how you have to play one campaign all the way through to play the others.
  - The 
 music is annoying and i just end up listening to my own music on the stereo.
  - It is really frustrating that you can't access the main menu during combat to load a game. It 
 would be nice because some times you make a mistake in taking on a battle that you can't win and 
 you have too play it all the way through in order to load your game again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andaleeb
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  THE BASICS:
  Good: a great tribute to one of my most favourite games; good music, graphics etc. n a nice way 
 to bring the franchise to the new generation.
  
  Bad: not even close to the level of gameplay, replay, and user-friendliness of the previous games 
 (shud not hav been tough obstacles to overcome for the developers) . graphics is okay, given that 
 'heroes' has always had a storybookish graphical view. no map editor, not enuf maps, not enuf options 
 and features, and too shallow with the campaign. 
  
  
  
  i got really excited wen i saw that a new 'heroes' game was gonna come. n i hav respect for ubisoft, 
 but man! playing the new game really makes me miss the old games alot (which, needless to say, 
 shudn't happen wit new games) . the towns look really fantastastic in 3d, and i hav to say that 
 the music has always been a plus point for all the 'heroes' games. and i guess i really felt good 
 playing a new game from the franchise. 
  
  so basically if ur into the heroes of might and magic franchise, i suggest u rent a copy, or just 
 even play the demo for a while to remember all the good games that came before this one. and after 
 that, u cud keep the game on and continue wit ur life (i'd recommed during naps) ...... cuz the music 
 really is pretty nice n operatic for a videogame.
  
  but seriously people, what happened to the campaign editor? where did the level of variety, choice 
 n options go? and what is the deal with such a cranked up difficulty setting ('normal' is the new 
 'beginner' mode apparently) . i myself am a huge fan of the series, i played em all (heroes3 rocks!) , 
 but heroes has never really been a serious fantasy title to the core. its balance of great presentation 
 with a semi-serious feel, but at the same with such a good immersive playing experience has been 
 wat i enjoyed the most. and i miss that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  After playing the other HOMM games I had some hopes that V would be just as good, how wrong I was. 
 First off, someone obviously didn't playtest this game very well or was using cheat codes since 
 the intial difficulty setting (Normal) is pretty insane which forces the player to save/reload 
 and re-think tactics and each time choosing the cheap option by raising one huge kickass army and 
 slowly branch out, return to castle and restock and then begin another slow march outwards.... talk 
 about boooring, I know strategy games are not the fastest of games but come on, Age of Wonders 
 tackled this concept and won and in the earlier HOMM did as well, so why doesn't V do it?
  
  One of the biggest pains is in multiplayer (Skirmish) you start off with a decent amount of 
 materials and a bonus and you set off to conquer the world (FFA) unfortuntely someone decided to 
 raise the general difficulty of the game to beyond godly, no more are the easier fights and victorys 
 to explore, now the random monsters are either 'lots' or hordes and not weak monsters either, we're 
 talking hordes of 'Cerberus' and worse, defending treasures and other stuff, so the player is forced 
 to build up the town, and raise a truely large army just to fight one horde, whilst the enemy AI 
 doesn't seem to have half the problems the player does.... hmm.... i'll say it again.... whatever 
 happened to proper paid playtesters? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirador
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I own this game, but I haven't played too much of it yet. From about 3-5 hours of gameplay I have 
 realized that the astounding graphics and compelling stories just don't quite cut it compared to 
 the past verions of the game. 
  
  The Good:
  Of course, as each new Heroes game comes out, the graphcs are even better. Now that the graphics 
 are 3D, you can really see 3DO's talent and potential to create breathtaking games. The battle 
 system is nothing new, but doesn't lack anything specific. The gameplay is simple and easy to get 
 used to and if you have played any past versions of the game, you'll have absolutely no trouble 
 adapting to this newer style. 
  
  The Okay & Not-So-Great:
  There's not enough to it in my opinion. Not enough campaigns, not enough maps, not enough choice. 
 Since I am used to playing the 4th game in which there are dozens of maps to choose from, the sequal 
 just comes up short in this department. And though the graphics are amazing, if you don't have 
 a computer that supports them, then you'll have a terribly slow-running game that doesn't look 
 quite as exceptional on the lowest graphics setting. 
  
  Overall:
  Although it could use a little more in places, it's still worthy of the "Heroes" title. Newcomers 
 and older fans alike will enjoy the game for all it does have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  Besides the fact that this is first in the series to go full 3d its not bad but the 3d factor can 
 create some problems on the adventure map such as missing items hidden by a tree, or having to 
 move the camera to pick up and item, or even move your hero (this happens a lot underground and 
 gets very annoying) . If you havent played a Homm game before, as a warning your going to want to 
 set away several hours for a game, and dont get yourself involved in an 8 player online game unless 
 you have a free day, because when you leave the hardcore players will get mad... and unless you 
 are one of them you WILL leave somewhere between hour 3 and 4... Also if u have played Homm 3 this 
 will be fun but dissapointing in many ways... very few custum maps and no teams in custom games... all 
 Free For All... There has also been talk about some balance issues but ill let you decide that on 
 your own... Overall a great game but it is simply missing something that the series has always had 
 that i cant put my finger on... Limited editon copies come with Homm 3 and and 4 for $10 more ( 
 I recommed getting this) but no expansions for them :- (... O well... Most strategy game lovers 
 will like this, but if u've never played a strategy game like this before, do yourself a favor 
 and DOWNLOAD THE DEMO... Available right here on gamespot... It can be a doozy to download if u still 
 have dial-up, but get a download manager, ( google free download manager) you can download it when 
 u can (overnights are good) and pause it when u have to disconnect, and restart it later :-) ... 
 O yeah and I don't know if i mentioned it but some campaign levels are VERY unbalanced/just not 
 fun so you'll prolly find yourself playing custom games most of the time. I'll run through the 
 reasons for my scoring now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khelal
Rating: 2.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game is not worth wasting your money on it's got stupid graphics and it's just boring. it's 
 one of the worst games i've ever played.
  The battles are childish and have rubbish graphics. It's hard to remember where every thing is 
 the mouths of the characters don't even move with the soundtrack. I hated the battles where the 
 tiny figures just move they're arms around a little inflict damage on the are figures. the warriors 
 are extremely fat it's like they've been stuffed. the only thing good about this game is it's cover 
 withch looks cool but apart from that it's totally abysmal.
  Do not buy this game you will be vey disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  An excitant turn based game story is really good, this is the first time I have ever played a HOMAM 
 game but I really like it. 
  
  Every good thing ahs a flow right? I will never play the game twice thou, cause it is too hard 
 overall it takes one week to create units (who has time) and the enemy has a lot and per day we 
 can build only one building (I hate turn based games because of this) and even resources also comes 
 as how many you control (like they give enough) gold income is pretty much ok (BUT NOT ENOUGH) .
 
  
  At the beginning its easy youll start with Isabel and collect units go around the map and after 
 finishing the first chapter then it gets really really hard I mean really hard?
  
  Graphics are ok (U MAY HAVE TO INSTALL v1.1 for better frame rate otherwise itll go frame by frame 
 after playing a while or save frequently then for a short time it will hold up) sounds are ok although 
 I hate the tracks its all the same in every chapter.
  
  With all of these miss falls and every thing I still like the game???@#$#!@$#!. 
  
  IF U WANT 
 TO WIN THE GAME OF ALL CHAPTERS START cheating and cheat a lot if u want to get trough. Believe 
 me I have tried many times to win with out cheating and I succeed (some of the time) . 
  
  You dont know how to cheat and you dont want to GUESS AGAIN 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  A darker heroic fantasy universe for the popular Might and Magic franchise, with six unique factions 
 and more than 80 different creatures. The game features a deep, scalable turn-based battle system 
 for challenging tactical combat as well as the option of a brand new Active Battle System for faster 
 play. Players can choose from more than 200 skills, 170 creature abilities and 40 spells to build 
 up heroes and armies. The storyline features special objectives, side quests and exciting plot 
 twists for the finest tactics, management and role-playing adventure ever brewed. Heroes of Might 
 and Magic V also introduce the new exclusive Duel mode: challenge your opponent in fierce battles 
 where only the slyest shall prevail. 
  
  Supported OS: Windows 2000/XP (only)
  
  Processor: Pentium 4 or AMD AthlonTM 1.5 GHz (Pentium 4 2.4 GHz recommended)
  
  RAM: 512 
 MB (1 GB recommended)
  
  Video Card: DirectX 9 compliant w/ 64MB RAM (128 MB recommended)
  
  Sound Card: DirectX 9 
 compliant
  
  DirectX Version: DirectX 9 or higher (included on disc)
  
  DVD-ROM: 4X DVD-Rom or better
  
  Hard Drive Space: 2+ GB
  
  Multiplay: Broadband internet 
 connection *Supported Video Cards at Time of Release
  
  NVIDIA GeForce" 3/4/FX/6 families (GeForce 4 MX NOT supported)
  
  ATI Radeon 8500/9000/X 
 families Matrox Parhelia" (PC/Windows) :
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalflame_04
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  well i was a kid not so long ago and i used to love playing heroes 3 or w. e it was so when i was 
 in at eb games and saw heroes 5 i was like wow i have to give it a try i installed and everything 
 looked pretty fun i played the first character and said now the second guy had to be way funner 
 than this so i go to the second guy not so good than to the necro who i figure will be fun to play 
 with but no not really this game is there in everyway but one, the story is $#! T or horrible everything 
 else i give at least an 8 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SliverDMD
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V is the best in its series. A new race creates a different set of strategies 
 of gameplay. The new skill wheel provided is highly immersive and addicting to try to best build 
 your heroes. The campaigns are a blast and the multiplayer hot-seat is fun as well, but the new 
 thing is the new online duel mode where you can face off 1v1 to see who is the master of the battlefeild.
 
  I was quite dissapointed however that Ubisoft lied to customers when explaining the map creation 
 feature that was suppose to be in the original game and has yet to come out in either patch or 
 update. Also after winning a senario or game there is little recognition or overview of all your 
 work, which greatly troubled me.
  But all in all this was a great turn-based strategy game with hours apon hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V is the next installment in the long running Heroes series. Although 
 the developer/publisher may have changed, the gameplay remains remarkably the same. The series 
 was initially developed by 3DO but was recently sold to Ubisoft and developed by Nival studios.
 
  
  Heroes is a pure turn based strategy game. The player starts the game with a hero of a certain 
 class - knight, ranger, warlock, wizard, demonlord, or necromancer. This hero represents the army 
 of the player and it can contain up to seven different types of creatures. The player uses this 
 unit to explore the game map. Each turn, the character can travel a certain amount of distance. 
 Once covered, the turn is over and the player must wait for his or her opponents to then move.
 
  
  Much of the gameplay involves exploration, capturing towns and resources, and building your army. 
 Towns provide the main avenue for army development. Each turn, the player has an option (depending 
 on resources available) to build a new building in each town owned. The buildings range from money 
 or resource producing structures, creature dwellings, and magic guilds. Creatures can then be recruited 
 to your army once per week provided your character has enough gold for them. 
  
  Character development plays a large role in this game. As your hero's army defeats enemies, he 
 or she gains experience. Gain enough experience and your hero goes up a level. What happens next, 
 depends a lot on the class of hero you have. There are four main attributes in the game - attack, 
 defense, spell pwer, and knowledge. Each time your character levels up, one of these abilities 
 goes up depending on your class (e. g. knights are more likely to go up in attack or defense while 
 wizards are more likely to have spellpower) . Attack and defense augment the strength of your army's 
 creatures. Heroes with higher attack have their creatures do more damage. Those with higher defense 
 have their creatures withstand more damage. Spellpower and knowledge affect your characters magic 
 abilites - those with more spell power see their spells have more effect. Knowledge corresponds 
 to how many magic points your character will have available.
  
  The second tier of character development centers around abilities. Your character can have up to 
 6 primary abilites. These abilities provide certain advantages in combat, improved movement on 
 the map, or access to more powerful spells. As your character levels up, he or she can choose to 
 improve an existing ability or chose another one (up to six) .
  
  Combat is also turn based. Unlike heroes IV, your hero does not participate directly in combat 
 as a unit, but rather stays back behind the sidelines. They can cast spells or use special abilities 
 to augment your army's creatures. Each creature takes a turn in combat depending on its initiative, 
 speed, and other modifiers. Combat is over when the opposing forces have been wiped out, retreat, 
 or you have been defeated.
  
  The single player game consists of 6 separate campaigns that must be played in order. Each campaign 
 lets you play as one of the 6 available classes. There is an underlying story throughout the campaing, 
 but it is not that well developed and seems to have a few holes in it. Nonetheless, it is interesting 
 enough to capture your attention the first time through.
  
  As a side note, the game manual is very lacking. Fortunately for me, I'm a veteran of the series 
 and knew how to play. However, new comers to the series may have a hard time picking up on all 
 the smaller nuances of the game as they are not explained anywhere in the manual.
  
  Multiplayer is just plain awful at this point. Those wanting to play online, must play through 
 ubisoft's site. Unfortunately, it seems to be a work in progress. The matchmaking system is atrocious. 
 It's taken me up to 35 mintues to even find an open game. Currently, you can play either a normal 
 versus game or opt for a one on one combat duel. The normal game proceeds tremendously slow for 
 some reason during a player's turn. The duels play out better but seem to lack balance. There are 
 certain armies and classes that are just too powerful compared to others.
  
  For those veterans of this series, this game is basically a prettier version of heroes III. The 
 gameplay is extremely similar with very few new additions. The same creatures are present in this 
 version, with virtually the same abilities. That's not neccesarily a bad thing, as Heroes III was 
 the best game in the series and probably, im my opinion, one of the best turn based strategy games 
 made. This game is worthwhile, just not amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EHGMaas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  This is my first encounter with this series, and boy what a shame i didn't stumble upon it earlier...
 
  
  I bought the deluxe edition packed with many extra's and wow... the complete game of Heroes of 
 might and magic II. What a threat! The Deluxe Edition comes with a printed map of Ashan, 16 page 
 artbook by heroic fantasy artist Oliver Ledroit and a faction document summarising all creaturs' 
 skills (this comes in very handy) .
  
  The loading times are the only minor point of critics. The graphics are awesome, and the music 
 is one of the best i've heard in a game. Even better than Guild Wars
  
  I want more of this.... Great job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangIT
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The towns look great. But 1st things 1st.
  
  Where is the 'freeplay' mode. The very limited single player scenario don't cut it. I'm playing 
 'multiplayer hotseat' with computer to play single scenarios. 
  
  Limited number of maps. Need more.
  
  The math don't add up. How can CPU have 2K units (including 
 upper tier like paladin) when player cannot have 1K. Creatures spawn 1 x week (or is it 1xday for 
 the computer) ? Where does the resource come from. Can CPU plant money trees?
  
  I bought mine online (Gamespot offer) . I cannot patch it (online 1.1 patch) . Can play it but aborts 
 in patch process and says game not loaded. Waiting on helpdesk support.
  
  Other than that, I still do like heros5. Just hope they fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasoabdou
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V
  from Ubisoft 
  its good game but 
  proplem is save
  proplem in quick save
  proplem in the game
  see some lag ......................... and i have 
 good pc hardware 
  but steal game is good
  and i played this game 
  see good idea 
  looking for castles and army
  & dont forget a farms 
  camera average
  this game have good 
 start , good start video and good skins 
  try play this game and this game will make you fun
  you most to be over 9 years
  
  Heroes 
 of Might and Magic V
  need high hardware and cool vga
  need
  
  Minimum
  -------
  
  - OS: Windows 2000/XP, SP2, DirectX 9.0C 
  - CPU: Pentium 4 / Athlon 1.5 GHz or higher
 
  - RAM: 512 MB or higher
  - Video: 128 MB AGP GeForce4 Ti4200 / RADEON 8500 or higher video card 
  - CD/DVD-ROM speed: 
 32x
  - Sound: DirectX compatible PCI 16-bit sound card
  
  Recommended
  -----------
  
  - OS: Windows 2000/XP, SP2, DirectX 9.0C 
  - CPU: Pentium 4 / Athlon 2,4 GHz or higher 
 
  - RAM: 1024MB or higher
  - Video: 256 MB AGP 8x GeForceFX 6600 / RADEON x800 or higher video card
  - CD/DVD-ROM speed: 
 32x 
  - Dolby Surround 5.1 sound processor
  
  DirectX 9.0c must be installed
  
  http://support. ubi. com/
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gasperbojanc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Skozi est kampanj in 30 misij se spopadite v boju za ozemlje, upravljajte z mesti in izboljujte 
 svoje heroje v uporabniku prijaznem, vendar globokem stratekem igralnem sistemu. Izbirajte med 
 ve kot 200 spretnostmi, 170imi sposobnostmi in 40 uroki ter si zlagoma zgradite svoje heroje 
 in vojsko, ki jih bo na popotovanjih spremljala. Obvladujte 6 razlinih ras, ki jih sestavlja 
 preko 80 raznolikih betij ter jih popeljite v napete taktine spopade, ki so tako potezna, 
 kakor tudi realnoasovne narave. Hkrati vas aka e pet razlinih veigralskih 
 nainov, od tistih, ki so znani e iz prejnjih delov, do povsem novih, ki se jih boste morali 
 e priuiti.
  
  Obvezna strojna in programska oprema:
  - Operacijski sistem Windows 2000/XP
  - procesor 1.5 GHz
  - 512 MB prostega pomnilnika
  - 
 3D grafina kartica s 64 MB pomnilnika
  - zvona kartica zdruljiva z DirectX 9.0c
  - 2.0 GB prostora na trdem disku
  - mika, 
 tipkovnica, enota DVD Rom 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  As a player who hasn't played the previous four Heroes of Might and Magic games, and not as proficient 
 in turn-based strategy games outside of the Civilization series, Heroes of Might and Magic V provides 
 hours of good fun and some very challenging single-player scenarios. The multiplayer also provide 
 a series of good challenges from other M&M warlords.
  
  In the fifth installment of the Heroes of Might & Magic series, the Demons of Kha-Beleth are at 
 it again. In the opening cinematics, a band of Archdevils crash the royal Griffin wedding, forcing 
 King Nicolai to fight them, and Queen Isabel to flee with Lord Godric. This is where the story 
 really unfolds. Each of the six campaigns: Haven, Inferno, Necropolis, Dungeon, Sylvan, and Academy; 
 contain five challenging missions; some can be easy for the average players, while others can be 
 very challenging and take hours to complete. You'll start with Queen Isabel and the Knights of 
 the Griffin Empire, then you'll take control of Demonlord Agrael, followed by Markal the Necromancer 
 and his Undead Horde, Raelag and the Dark Elves, Findan and the Sylvan Elves, and Zehir of the 
 Mages of the Silver Cities.
  
  It may take even those who are veterans of the HOMM series to learn the gameplay of the fifth installment. 
 As it is a turn-based RTS/RPG game, the turns rotate between the various players involved in the 
 scenario. Your hero has a certain amount of movement points to move about in the map, which can 
 not only contain the surface, but also the Underworld. As with any turn-based games, you must capture 
 and build cities, take resources and hidden treasures, and crush opposing armies with your army, 
 might, and magic. When doing battle, the field of battle is set up into a rectangle of square tiles. 
 Depending on your hero's abilities (more on this later) , you can place your unit stacks in any 
 of the available placement tiles before you start the battle. From there, it's pretty much a fight 
 to the finish or until one of the heroes flees or surrenders. You can use learned spells from your 
 hero to boost your armies or soften or crush opposing armies or siege the city walls and towers. 
 The key is to know when to do battle, and when it is best to retreat and fight when ready.
  
  In some scenarios, there are obelisks that can provide clues to a hidden Tears of Asha. It 
 takes a hero and a full day of movement points to dig at a certain spot on the surface map to find 
 it. Once found, that hero must take it to a friendly city to provide it with a major boost in income 
 and boost in unit abilities. An opposing hero can take out the hero carrying the tears to put it 
 out of play. In other scenarios, you are put under a time limit, so you must think carefully in 
 your battle plans.
  
  The graphics aren't much to write home about, but the spell effects are wonderful. You'll find 
 that the groves of trees are of various sizes; some of them covering a section of open pathways 
 that you must rotate the camera at times to find treausres and resources you didn't find under 
 the default view. The views of a city are nice, watching it grow and fortify as you build it to 
 its fullest possible potential. However, you can only designate one of them as your capital which 
 can provide the maximum daily income of 4,000 gold, and you can build various buildings to receive 
 resources, put up defensive walls and towers when under siege, bring war machines with your heroes, 
 and upgrade basic units to more advanced units. Most of the cutscenes are decent, but there isn't 
 much animation from the heroes. Otherwise, some of them are noteworthy in this review. Archangels 
 fly around and can swing their holy swords to slay their foes or resurrect a stack one time per 
 battle. Succubi Mistresses can launch a fireball that chains to foes adjacent to the targeted one. 
 Vampire Lords teleport around and sap life as they hit an opponent. The Dark Elven women wear very 
 high stiletto boots and have very long hair. The War Dancers of the High Elves of Irollan have 
 tattoos and dual-wield swords. The Titans of the Mages look ready to blast opponents with lightning 
 attacks.
  
  The Role-Playing aspects of this game come with that you can choose a certain build for your main 
 hero or for a hero you choose in multiplayer. For instance, you can take advantage of your hero's 
 inherent ability and setup abilities centered around it. Other times, you'll want Expert Logistics 
 and Pathfinding for your hero for maximum movement points and to get around fairly quickly, especially 
 on that hero's favored terrain. There are some that are most useful, especially in the Single-Player 
 Campaign. One very useful ability is Resurrect from Expert Light Magic and a lvl 5 magic guild 
 in a city. Another very useful ability are specialty in war machines. By specializing in war machines, 
 your catapults and ballista can attack twice, and with an Ammo Cart, as long as it's up, your ranged 
 units will have infinite ammo. Perhaps the most useful school of magic, especially at the end of 
 the Single-Player campaign, is Summoning Magic. With it, you can summon units from your city to 
 a traveling hero, town portal quickly to the nearest city, summon an available ship on the map, 
 or Banish summoned stacks. Whatever your gameplay is, there is something for every warlord.
  
  While the graphics are decent enough in HOMM V, the sound isn't very noteworthy although the 
 sounds of battles are nice. The voice acting isn't very good, and the BGM can get very redundant, 
 especially in long, challenging missions. Multiplayer is decent. You get to choose a race and hero 
 of your choice, then do battle with others until someone is the last warlord standing.
  
  However, there are a few issues with this game. The main culprit is that the game can bog down 
 in heavy battles or in huge maps, especially on systems that barely meet the minimum requirements. 
 Another issue is the camera angle. In areas and battle where precise movement is required, it can 
 be a task to put your units or armies at the right spot. The last major issue is the pathfinding. 
 By default, your hero will use the safest and fastest possible path to get from one point to another. 
 However, this can be an issue, especially if you know your hero's main army can cut through a blocking 
 neutral or enemy force to reach their destination much quicker.
  
  Despite all these issues, HOMM V provide hours of gameplay with most people going through the Single-Player 
 scenarios in at least 100 hours. Multiplayer also provides hours of fun with up to 8 players at 
 a time. With its immersive battles, a decent single-player story, and plenty of hero builds and 
 the luck and morale of the hero's army, HOMM V is fun, and challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drannelx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  I think that its a great game because is a fusion of the classic HMM style with amazing 3D features. 
 However, I was waiting more of this new version and a hope the next will be better. This game can 
 be one of the greatest turn based strategy games because it never loses the essence of that kind 
 of games combined with the immersive world of HOMM.
  
  I hope that Ubisoft continue with the sequel that great saga and I cant wait to see the new Heroes 
 of Might & Magic VI a possible game of the year. Long life to Heroes of Might & Magic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MIIB11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Heroes V is a very good game. 
  Even if you have not played the series before you can accommodate with the game basics very fast.
 
  For the new guys out there who did not played heroes before if they will try this game first they 
 will lose most
  of the time and they will not know why. It is a difficult game even if you play on normal whitch 
 is the lowest grade of difficulty.
  If you played the series before you will lose but you will know why (and if you do that you can 
 improve so that in the end you will win) .
  The 3-D graphics is just a good concept that here is not applied very good ( they must work on that) , but 
 it is a good surprise.
  The cut scenes are week and the characters do not move there mouth when they are speaking ( but 
 it may be the pc fault because i do not have such a high performance pc to play at high, most of 
 the time I played on low) .
  The races are now an even power. You can build all the creatures (not like in Heroes IV when if you 
 build one you could not build the other) . Another good thing about building is that you have a more 
 free way of building (for example if you do not want to build some creatures but you want to train 
 angels you can do that) there are few buildings that need to be build if you want to train archangels (that 
 is the last creature)
  Now if you build one or two angels and if you fight 200 peasant (lv one creature) you might lose. All 
 the creature are important.
  The demons have one ranged attacker (succubus) that when you upgrade it (succubus mistress) shoot 
 with a ray that hit more enemies that are close.
  If you have on battlefield more tipes of creatures (from different castles) then she may hit them 
 too.
  The hero has 6 skill spaces but one skill has 3 abilities that can be choose (you can choose 3 out 
 of 3 so there is not much of a choice) .
  The hero can't move on the battlefield, and he can't die but he can attack melee, ranged or with 
 spells. You can build more thinghs in a castle and the castles defenses are more powerful.
  Now you can see witch creature will attack and when will you attack. You can see the who will attack 
 next.
  Some creatures have abilities (griffins fly away from battlefield and attack a place on the battlefield 
 with more attack, the zombies give poison, etc)
  The sounds are good ,not the best but are good.
  I think that you should play this game no matter 
 if you played the series before or not it is worth it. By the way sorry about my writing I know 
 it is bad : (.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macwho
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  The 5th Installment to one of my favorite series ever, Heroes of might and magic 5 offers us some 
 great stratergy gameplay as well as alot of the old basics but what I am looking forward to the 
 most is the Graphics.
  
  The graphics are absolutly supurb and this makes it a must Have. With six factions in Havan, Sylvan, 
 Necropolis, Academy, Inferno and Dungeon, it is up to you to guide your heroes to explore unexplored 
 land and get resources to improve your race and complete the game objective.
  
  I find this game is a absolute gem and I couldn't find a better way to introduce the game to the 
 heroe's series. Ubisoft and Nival have done a wonderful job in not just getting the series off 
 the ground again but to also improve on the game. I hope this won't be the last we here of Heroes 
 of might and magic. It's such a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesjiao
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Reminiscent of the classic HOMM games, but with many improvements and innovations.
  
  Gameplay
  ============================
  
  I have just completed the campaign on normal difficulty 
 and over all I think the difficulty is just about right for someone who's had previous experience 
 with fantasy turned based strategy games like Age of Wonders and Age of Wonders 2. 
  
  Generally speaking, your role in this game is to ascertain the preservation of troops as armies 
 are not produced as fast as in the previous HOMM games and/or AoW. Because there is no way for 
 players to construct new towns and the number of towns in any given episode in the campaign is 
 scanty to say the least, it is important to keep in mind the abilites of your troops and your hero 
 and devise viable strategies for fighting different types of foes - be it slow, quick, weak, numerous 
 or ranged. 
  
  This version of HOMM introduced race based perks (aka special abilites) that can only be obtained 
 after satisfying certain skill prerequisites. Each race is suited to a different set of skills 
 (Leadership for example does nothing for the Necropolis as their morale is always neutral regardless) . 
 
  
  The battlefield does get boring after playing the game for a while, but I guess most people tend 
 to be involved more with the combat itself then minding the backdrop or the layout of the battlefield.
 
  
  Graphics
  ======================================
  
  Overall, graphics have received an overhaul from the designers. However, due to the fact that the 
 game is now in 3d, its minimum system specifications have tripled from HOMM4 and with my ATI Radeon 
 9600 and 768mb RAM, zooming out from the map can cause major processing delays. The game also slows 
 down when I move my screen close to Lava based or Mountain based terrains and when I enter a town. 
 
  
  However if you have a powerful enough system, the interface looks stunningly beautiful. Colours 
 blend well with each other and creatures and ambiance are rendered very nicely in a cartoonish 
 fashion.
  
  Sound
  ======================================
  
  Nothing that makes this section of the game stand out. Sound is average and the music is engrossing, 
 but like every other game gets repetitive after spending some time with the game. 
  
  My Tilt
  ======================================
  
  I really enjoyed the campaign. I have 
 not yet tried going through it on difficulties beyond Normal, but I have heard that the difficult 
 curve rises exponentially. So if you are a hardcore HOMM fan (or a turned based game fan in general) 
 looking a good challenge, try beating the campaign on the most difficult, otherwise my recommendation 
 is to try the normal setting and go through the storyline which in itself is very well written 
 and presented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huevo_Feo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 1, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Besides the fact that this is first in the series to go full 3d its not bad but the 3d factor can 
 create some problems on the adventure map such as missing items hidden by a tree, or having to 
 move the camera to pick up and item, or even move your hero (this happens a lot underground and 
 gets very annoying) . If you havent played a Homm game before, as a warning your going to want to 
 set away several hours for a game, and dont get yourself involved in an 8 player online game unless 
 you have a free day, because when you leave the hardcore players will get mad... and unless you 
 are one of them you WILL leave somewhere between hour 3 and 4... Also if u have played Homm 3 this 
 will be fun but dissapointing in many ways... very few custum maps and no teams in custom games... all 
 Free For All... There has also been talk about some balance issues but ill let you decide that on 
 your own... Overall a great game but it is simply missing something that the series has always had 
 that i cant put my finger on... Limited editon copies come with Homm 3 and and 4 for $10 more ( 
 I recommed getting this) but no expansions for them :- (... O well... Most strategy game lovers 
 will like this, but if u've never played a strategy game like this before, do yourself a favor 
 and DOWNLOAD THE DEMO... Available right here on gamespot... It can be a doozy to download if u still 
 have dial-up, but get a download manager, ( google free download manager) you can download it when 
 u can (overnights are good) and pause it when u have to disconnect, and restart it later :-) ... 
 O yeah and I don't know if i mentioned it but some campaign levels are VERY unbalanced/just not 
 fun so you'll prolly find yourself playing custom games most of the time. I'll run through the 
 reasons for my scoring now.
  
  Gameplay- 7 - Little annoying things, lack of team games in custom, disappointing campaign, lack 
 of custom game variety, and lack of many custom maps in general.
  
  Graphics- 9 - Great, came really close to giving it a 10 because they are amazing, but sadly to 
 see them well u have to zoom in and such and take time away from playing.
  
  Sound- 10 - great musical scores, sometimes i leave the game on the main menu just to listen to 
 the track.
  
  Value- 8 - If your a Homm fan, then you'll be expecting more, if your not, this game might be very 
 enjoyable, almost game this a 7, but I gave it an 8 because u can buy it with the classics Homm 
 3 and 4. and just in general I tihnk this should be a 7.5, but ill round up.
  
  Tilt- 7 - I feel really bad about giving it a tilt of 7 but something is missing!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: playas89
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  When i considered to buy HOMM5 i wasnt quite sure if my money would be spent right.
  But after i installed it and played the first campagne i can just say that this game rocks !
 
  I cant compare it to the older sequels due to i never played a HOMM game before, but the principal 
 of roleplay elemnts and building ur army like in command and conquer e. q is absolutely great.
 
  The grraphics are beautiful, even on no high end pc's!
  I'm so happy that this game was released, cuz im a real big fan of round based strategy and roleplay 
 games.
  Also the story is told really nice and it is aweful that u play every race of enemies u meet in 
 the game urself after a while!
  
  actually im not done with the game already, but every race is totally unique and u can really see 
 the concept behind each.
  
  The only negative points are:
  -soundtrack maybe, but it depends if u like it 
  -the movies sequels are quite bad animated and 
 in in-game graphic, so evry character has just 3 moves so it gets boring after the second one /swt
 
  - the campaigns differ in difficulty a lot ! there are missions u can do without any tactics and 
 others are close to not possible!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Before all of you chest-pounders that "Beat the game on Insane Level without even breaking a sweat!" 
 chime in ... I am an old-time HOMM fan from way back and I feel that I know how to play HOMM at 
 least pretty well. While I love this game 's design in general, I really hate the gameplay. It 
 is just too freakin' hard ... even on easy! 
  
  I am a busy person with a family and my gaming time is always at a premium to me. Sometimes, I 
 just want to play a casual game, have the satisfaction of beating it in a reasonable amount of 
 time, and enjoy the mechanics and design of the game. If I want to take more time, I would normally 
 crank the difficulty up and really have at it. Yet, I have played 4 single player scenarios of 
 HOMM 5 and eventually, had my ass handed to me all 4 times. And like I said, I've owned every edition 
 since HOMM 1 and beat them all!
  
  It is insane that enemy armies appear from nowhere. In the last game that I lost, I had beat 2 
 large enemy armies and was on my way back to my town to recruit more creatures (with the little 
 gold I had left) when a THIRD enemy army appeared from nowhere and kicked my butt. And this was 
 on easy! You know, in previous HOMM games, I could always feel the tide turning when I was gaining 
 ground and winning. But I have yet to feel anything close to that in this game as the enemy armies 
 seem to randomly come from nowhere and appear to sprout up under different rules than mine, resource/cost-regardless. 
 I ask myself, where the hell did the enemy get all of those resources to build all of this? There 
 can only be one answer: the AI cheats. And Sid Meier said it best: A player feels screwed when 
 an AI cheats.
  
  I am a huge HOMM fan and it hurts me to write this review. I was disappointed to see PC gamer give 
 HOMM 5 a 74% rating, primarily due to the insane difficulty, but had hope for the 1.1 patch. OK, 
 I have the patch now ... but how freakin' hard was this game before? :p I simply want to have some 
 fun, not be stomped, humiliated ,and feel that I wasted my precious free time, accomplishing nothing. 
 
  
  And for those that want to play on a zero-error, super-hard level, go at it. You obviously are 
 a more dedicated HOMM player and have more time to perfect your game than me. That's why they make 
 "Nightmare" levels and the "Very Hard" settings on games. Just give the rest of us a break and 
 allow us to play and enjoy what is other-wise an awesome game. But as it is now, I don't find HOMM 
 5 very enjoyable and find myself going back to Civ 4 and WOW. : ( 
  
  Oh, and I just HAVE to throw this in: Where the hell are the random map generators that have made 
 previous (Pre-HOMM 4) games so re-playable? When can I actually choose my hero/race etc. for once? 
 Pleeeze!?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zathorius
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I bought this game more than a week ago, and after finishing 3 chapters I'm in no mood for more.
 
  The gameplay is the same as it was. Build an army, fight other heroes and rule the Empire. Yet, 
 almost nothing had changed from the previous series of HOMM. Some might consider renaming the towns 
 "new", but in reality it was the same old monsters, remodeled and some renamed. I hoped for something 
 new. And the constant show-off during the cutscenes got very annoying. I mean, do they really had 
 to make the characters cast some spell over and over again throughout the game? It didn't add anything, 
 made it look ridiculous.
  The graphics looked good and I enjoyed both landscape and towns, especially Haven, although I did 
 have to keep the camera far enough, zooming in made the towns and building look bad.
  The sounds were quite good, although the voice actors could have been better, Isabel's monotonous 
 voice got annoying after a while. The music, on the other hand, was amazing.
  Although a fan of HOMM series, the fifth game was a disappointment. Nothing can beat the good old 
 HOMM 2 and HOMM 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  So I had Installed this game, you know the first feeling was: "Strange, I have never played the 
 games from this series, why did I buy this 5th part of the epic series they call it". But know, 
 aafter several hours of gaming I undersood - This game is the brilliant in my collection and I 
 don't understand how could I miss the 4th, 3d or even first game from the HoMaM????
  So now about the game itself. As I said I haven't played the previous games but this game clearly 
 has me! I am playing it for hours in row!
  The graphics is good. The picture is very nice on 1024x768, with all other settings on max. Ofcourse 
 there are several twics in it, plus the models of charachters aren't always perfect... but what 
 am I talking about, after The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion graphics in other games looks always good 
 but not perfect.
  Sound is really good, especially I like the soundtracks from the game. Such a beautifull and pleasent 
 for my ears music also let you play and enjoy the game for more and more!
  Gameplay is very comfortable and easy in use. This game is my first in such genre of video gaming 
 but I had got it during the first 15 min of playing.
  In total i can say that this game is really worthy of playing. Look at me, I am not the fan of 
 this genre and I am playing this game for hours! So must YOU!
  Tahir "Yazon"Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw that this new heores was coming out i thought, "well there goes a magnificent 
 series"... because a newer and bigger company took it over and it seems like every time that happens 
 the game's meaning and y the hardcore fans that have loved the game gets completly re-done and 
 reuins it. But i am very happy to say, they DID NOT do that on this one. They gave every bit of 
 what 3DO had in previous versions and jus let it loose on steroids... It's 3D now so the graphics 
 are sweet, the fighting mode is much easier and looks surprisingly more like u think it should... 
 
  Onne of the things i thought they'd take out is 3DO's map layout, which would have made me very 
 upset, because that was one of things the hardcore fans adored. but they kept it, even the walking 
 lines and the whole look of it, just made the land look cooler, and turned it into 3D.
  The multiplayer is my favorite part. It's exactly like the previous heroes, just not as good setting 
 it up as i thought the last ones were. One of the things i didn't like was there isn't a co-op 
 selection available, it's all FFA... but im thinking (hoping) they add that soon. They made the 
 multiplayer gameplay exactly the same other than that, still turns, still pick u'r race and hero 
 and extra the exact same way, same selection, only all new heroes, and added Sylvan as a new race.
 
  I honestly thought the way they set up the towns and how they looked and were added onto everytime 
 u build a structure was perfect and i was unrealisticly hoping they'de keep it the same way, but 
 to my surprise they made it look so much more like you think it should. like they made it 3D, so 
 it turns around and when u build new structures they look way cooler and more kingdom like. 
  All in all this game is an instant classic, and anyone who loves PC and loves real time hardcore 
 stradegy games, should check this out because they will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Crab
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  God! Ubisoft made this??? I can not believe that someone who made Silent Hunter's 3 graphics look 
 so great do such a poor job on a game like Heroes! For starters, I don't see the use of 3D graphics, 
 it doesn't make any difference from previous version, it just makes a path through a forest for 
 example harder to spot, but that's it. The cutscenes are just HORRIBLE. For god's sake, did they 
 hire a 3 year old to make the animation? The characters don't even move their lips when they supposedly 
 talk! I tell you DO NOT waste money on this game, it's a TOTAL RIP OFF!!! The units are so badly 
 made, the devils in the demonic armies for example look like hell (yes, they are supposed to look 
 like they come from hell, but that's not what I mean when i say they look like HELL!) Necromancer 
 units (necromancers were my fave in previous versions) are weak, and putting a bow in the hand 
 of a skeleton? Since when? Ghosts are useless, but then again ghosts have never been good for anything 
 except placing them forward to take arrow shots. Vampires still keep their touch (my fav units) 
 but I can't say it's any improvement from previous versions. The lich returns, so that's the only 
 "drop of good" in a sea of BAD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  Having spent hundreds of hours playing both Homm2, 3 and 4 me and obviously many others were pretty 
 nervous what Nival and UBI could come up with.
  
  Im glad to say that for my own part Im extremely satisfied with the game.
  
  Graphics:
 
  Great! Played on a athloh 4000+ w. GF7800gtx SLI its pretty, smooth and just awesome. Can be 
 a resource hog on weaker systems from what Ive heard though.
  
  Sounds:
  Also great. Nice music and soundFX. (miss the vampires "Bleh" though ;) )
  
  Gameplay:
  Camera 
 takes a few minutes to get used to but works just fine. Same gameplay mechanics as in previous 
 games but in 3D.
  
  Value:
  Extremely good. All different factions (6) plus the way the game is designed makes no map play 
 the same twice. The plethora of heroes & creatures skills and abilities virtually eliminates the 
 "one combat and one magic hero" stuff in Homm4, and the supremity of earth magic & stuff in Homm3.
 
  Replayability is very high. The map editor which probably will be relased soon will just increase 
 this.
  
  Ive played an entire campaign, about 30 duels online and 2 hotseat-maps against a friend, and 
 Im having a total blast!
  
  I strongly recommend this game to anyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munstable
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  HOMM 2 was perhaps one of my best discoveries as a gamer.
  HOMM 3 was great but to me did not surpass HOMM 2 in a huge way.
  HOMM 4 I skipped.
  
  HOMM 
 5?
  
  The graphics look very dashing and has vibrant colors, like most Nival productions. However, I 
 think they are a bit too much on the cartoony side, and models has a chunky feel that's similar 
 to warcraft 3, which I think is overused in strategy games. Don't get me wrong, I love cartoony 
 graphics, which is why I love HOMM 2 the most, it has so much charm! But now, the 3d graphics just 
 lacks that charm and simplicity, and so it makes me think that maybe it's time to give the series 
 a more mature and elegant look.
  
  Sound is ok. Again, incomparable to HOMM 2/HOMM 2 Price of Loyalty's memorable and charming tunes 
 that I still listen to today.
  
  Interface is awful and I find myself struggling with the camera controls alot. Unit stats and other 
 game info seems scattered and unintuitive to the player. The icons and screen presentations however 
 are top-notch. The city screens are very close to what I had always wanted them to be.
  
  Story is non existent.
  
  I feel sorry to have to give this game such a marginal review because 
 it has so much potential to be a better if not a great game. Developers are not seeing beyond of 
 what can be made out of such a great series. They need to do more to make it stand out from the 
 prequels. Change its title for all I care, take more risks and innovate! Something important to 
 such a game is a connection to the heroes, and yet they are not nothing more than resource collectors 
 and chess pieces. Where is the story? Where is the personality? What should I care from one hero 
 to the next? Besides a difference in portrait and stats and skills!
  
  As for the world and combat, how about weather changes? Wouldn't it be more fun to have to consider 
 the season when planning a siege and to have these weather changes affect certain units? Why constrain 
 the game to previous game mechanics?
  
  Anyway, it's a good try and I hope to see better results in the next installment. For this reason 
 alone, I will continue to support the series until someone else comes up with a better game closer 
 to what I have dreamt of all these years. :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocAfrica
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  The Good about Homm V. The 3d graphics are gorgeous. The opening movie is okay too. But what is 
 happening in the movies doesn't completely make sense. The in game cut scene movies are flat looking 
 because the characters do not move their lips or change expressions. The Bad. Homm V is missing 
 the map editor. You can't make any new maps and there are way fewer maps in this version compared 
 to other versions of Homm. The Ugly, multi-player online gaming is basically impossible. Connectivity 
 is non-exsistant. Even when I was able to connect in one online game after several attempts, the 
 game ended when the other players were disconnected. I was in California and the other players 
 were in Europe. I was given a victory for a faction I didn't even use. I wasn't even close to winning 
 the game since I only had one hero with a small army. 
  If you haven't bought this game, I would reccomend that you wait about three to six months to see 
 if the developer Nival will write newer patches that will address connectivity issues and add the 
 map editior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heavensbluegate
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  visually stunning. one more turn syndrome. keeps you on your toes. nice single player campaign. 
 multiplayer. wonderful!
  
  if you love heroes 3, you would love this game just be patient for the patches for ai improvement 
 and some other things everybody expects on first release... err... except nival and ubisoft?
  
  well i actually hope for heroes 4 kind of thing where the hero can be very powerful that it 
 is possible for him to defeat an entire legion. hehehe. but unfortunately i wasn't.. the caravan 
 system was not around also.
  
  the game has a creative skill tree though the magic system has been downsized to a quarter (i think) 
 of what was present in heroes 4. the spell set can really add something to the depth of strategy 
 for the game. also since only one hero is allowed per batallion the depth of strategy is lesser 
 than that of heroes 4.
  
  gameplay is great so i give a 10.
  graphics is superb so i give a 10.
  the sound is ok. nothing great. 7.
  value.. if there a 
 map creator i would give it a 10 but for now its 8.
  tilt.. great so i give it 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReijMan
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Don't have much to say about it.. its nearly impossible to navigate, your heroes act like dumb 
 fools, have stupid abilities who no-one uses. game runs slow like a snail. Its that borring, you 
 rather look at growing grass, and during multiplayergames it gets stuck during climax. The story 
 is absolute a zero because the cutscenes are totally thesame, whatever you do. (you have 1000 angels, 
 and in the cutscene you die from 1 little dog, etc)
  no matter how hard you try, computer grows automatically with you.
  don't spend time on this 
 silly game, you will regret.
  Multiplayer totally sucks. ghosts are kinda useless. and during your 'not turn' you can just wait.. 
 they forget it might be nice to actually get to know your heroes or to learn your skils.. no.. 
 you just need to wait.
  BLEAGH!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan416
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I think that everyone should just shut up about this whole thing and face it: The only reason that 
 you would hate it would be if you've never played the originals before. If you were a previous 
 player of the series, this game looks ike heaven. I agree that it is like a re-vamped version of 
 Heroes III, (which is what gives the game its flavor) . Why do I hear some people dissing the 3D 
 graphics? There's absolutely nothing wrong with the graphics, hence it's probably your computer. 
 As far as story line goes, who could say no to 6 campaigns? The battles are better with the new 
 graphics if you ask me. The only problems that I had with the game is loading times, and unrandomized 
 maps. As for the loading times, I personally didn't care. Who wouldn't mind waiting A WHOLE MINUTE 
 AND A HALF to play the map for a couple of hours. Seriously people, you might want to get a grip. 
 Unrandomized maps and the fact that armies and hired heroes don't carry over to other maps is a 
 little depressing, but it definitely should not make you shy away from the game. Overall, this 
 game was very good. I tried not to get my hopes up for this game, considering that they did an 
 average job on the fourth one. I'll summarize it for you again: If you're a fan of the Heroes of 
 Might and Magic franchise, you should not be disappointed. As for you people who are just jumping 
 in... I recommend that you play the entire series before judging this one. That way, you wouldn't 
 continually piss me off every time that I had to read a review that said garbage like "the 3D graphics 
 were terrible", or "the music is annoying after a while", or my personally favorite "it's too damn 
 hard when the computer has an army bigger than mine". Get a grip, shut up, and play the game. BTW, 
 although it seems like I'm screwing just about everyone who's remarked on the game, I'm really 
 not. Those of you who are true fans to the franchise rock \m/. Game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djynen
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  As a very late newcomer to the HOMM game universe, this latest reboot of the franchise is very 
 much a mixed bag. The game has the same colorful imagery and atmosphere of previous entries, given 
 a fantastic 3D facelift. Granted, the graphics aren't up to the high standards of Oblivion or Age 
 of Empires 3, but they give the game a whole new dimension that hasn't been seen in previous entries. 
 Spell effects are suitably impressive - in fact the Armageddon and Meteor spells caused the game 
 to crash several times.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are a pleasant combination of both 3 and 4. The heroes are no longer movable 
 units, but they can still inflict damage on the enemy via spells, melee or ranged attacks. Kudos 
 to Nival for making such a good design decision. I would've preferred the addition of caravans 
 to make transferring troops easier, however.
  
  Now onto the bad - the biggest being the corny, cliched and totally ham-ridden campaign storyline. 
 The voice acting isn't really that dire, and the dialogue is pretty decent. But for anyone who's 
 played Warcraft 3, in particular the human campaign, the ending is very very predictable. The biggest 
 problem with the story-based campaign is that there's far too much Warcraft and not enough HOMM, 
 if you get my drift.
  
  Even worse, it was virtually impossible for me to progress past Campaign 4 Mission 1 due to a script-triggering 
 problem. I shouldn't have to cheat and download a savegame just to finish playing this campaign. 
 There are several other campaign maps which also have similar bugs. It's infuriating and spoils 
 a pleasant gameplay experience.
  
  And the worst omission is the complete and total lack of either a map editor or software development 
 kit. A game with as much potential as HOMM5 screams... no BEGS for user-added content. A lack of 
 this feature will severely shorten the longevity of this game - hopefully Nival is working on a 
 map editor as we speak.
  
  In conclusion, HOMM5 is a game with the tremendous potential to be a classic. But a poor and overly 
 tedious single-player campaign, and the lack of a map editor to add user-based content, severly 
 impacts both the enjoyability and longevity of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekon
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  What a stupid game! For the first few days of playing this I actually found it rather fun and addictive 
 but gradually the bad spelling and use of grammar, ropey graphics, static gameplay and absolutely 
 dreadful design decisions and bugs just annoyed me way too much to make it worth the effort. OK 
 lets list this games faults:
  
  1. You lose all of your heroes and every magic item at the end of each map, making the hiring of 
 heroes totally pointless. The only hero that gets carried over to the next map is the main one 
 that relates to the games story (Isabel to begin with) and even then all of her items just vanish 
 for no reason at all. So really you can only improve your main hero and considering this game is 
 called HEROES of Might and Magic its pretty f*&%ing stupid dont ya think!!!!!!!
  
  2. The game is in 3D and yet it doesnt make any use of it. When you go into tactical mode, you 
 would expect a 3D game to have terrain in it but all this game has is a flat & empty grid with 
 a few squares blocked out by some graphics of boulders or logs. Wow!!! How tactical!!! This game 
 truly takes strategy to new heights. Two armies face each other and a log and boulder are in between 
 them. Oh my god what should they do?!!! The nail biting tension nearly had me falling of my seat!!! 
 LOL!!!
  
  3. Ignore the people that say this game has varied units. It doesnt. You dont really get any choice 
 between what you can have - the game basicly forces you down a set path by giving you the units 
 IT decides to give you.
  
  4. Individual units do not improve when you train them - instead they simply "change" into the 
 next unit in the chain. For example if you train a load of archers they become Marksmen, "forgetting" 
 all of the abilities they originally had (volley or whatever its called) as they are now TOTALLY 
 different units altogether. Does this make any sense? NO!!!
  
  5. The music is OK but certainly nothing to write home about but when you go into the city screen 
 its just damn right annoying.
  
  6. There are several points in the game where sentences are written so badly that they simply dont 
 make any sense at all. Also all they needed to do was run their sentences through the spellchecker 
 in Word to correct the majority of the pathetic spelling mistakes (eg disided is NOT a word you 
 dumb f*&%s!!!)
  
  7. Considering that this game is PURELY turn based and NONE of it is in real-time, why the hell 
 does it have ANY lagging problems?! I found later on that it started to lag when I simply rotated 
 the needlessly 3D map!
  
  8. Further into the game it challenges the player by outnumbering his armies with superior numbers 
 and more powerful units. This is not because the computers AI is clever and devious but simply 
 because the computer player is given more than you! You can take over every resource on the map 
 and the computer player will STILL be able to crush you with super powerful armies of doom!
  
  9. You would expect there to be lots of random elements in this game to make it fun but actually 
 its all just set in stone. Peasant huts will ALWAYS produce precisely 22 peasants each week, Archer 
 towers will ALWAYS produce 12 etc. Windmills supposedly produce random elements (which makes buggerall 
 sense anyway) and yet every turn they just churned out gems.
  
  10. As nothing in this game is done in real-time, I would have expected MUCH better graphics. Instead 
 I am presented with something that doesnt really look much better than Warcraft 3.
  
  11. Plenty of daft bugs. For example, you decide to use a units special ability but before you 
 click on the target you decide that instead you would rather make a normal attack...... but you 
 cant as there is no cancel button! 
  
  Its all a shame as I really wanted to like this game but its really just a VERY simplistic & shallow 
 turn-based game thats riddled with bugs and amazingly daft design choices that Nival have attempted 
 to cover up by making it all in 3D which actually hinders it rather than helping it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krle89ns
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Heroes is a one of a kind game. I and many others were with it from the early beginnings till now. 
 The game has improved much, but the basic game play stayed the same. Heroes II was a very fun and 
 famous game of its time. Later Heroes III was a great step made of its previous. Heroes IV on the 
 other hand, made in a new era of 3d games and new engines, didn't fulfil our expectations..... (note 
 to myself it looked worse 3d than 2d ....2d was real ART ah... the old times :) . Bun NOW came Heroes 
 V if you ask me IT IS A HEROES III REVIVAL. A bit to commercial ,but much better than heroes IV. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacemanboy
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game i thought it might be fun.. im not a big fan of turn-based games 
 but have favored a few. The story is very deep and im not a formoer palyer of this seris so didnt 
 know much. The missions in this game are incredbly long that may take you up to days to complete, 
 also they seem to get very hard. The units you gain in one battle to not carry over to your next 
 one which is a key element in turn based gams but i did enjoy the varity of untis and the graphice 
 detail. I would only recamend this game to former fans of this seris or turn based fans who love 
 diving deep into stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastergerard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  
  hey for those of you who have problems of your copy of heroes V your too harsh.. especially you 
 geocide666.. i have my copy of heroes V and i dont get any problems were as when a friend of mine 
 bought a copy coz i dont lend one ^_^.. he had problems ... 
  
  BECAUSE HE BOUGHT THE PIRATED VERSION OF THE GAME ...
  
  so before you comment try to buy the 
 original ones! i have and i enjoyed it.. oh and btw dont just download it buy it ... or if you 
 less fortunate download it hehehehe 
  
  OOOOOOOOOOOO OOO OOOOO OOOooo oooooooo ooooo ooooooooo oooo oooooo ooo ooo ooooooOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
 OOOOOOOOOOO OOO OO OOOO OOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOoo oooooooooooooo oooooo oooo oooo ooooo oooo ooo 
 oooooo oooooooOOOOOO OOO OOOO OOOOO O OOO OO OOOO OOO OOOOOOO O OOOO OOOOO OOOO OOooooooooooo ooooo 
 oo oooooo OOO OOOOOO OOOOO OOoooooooo oooooo ooOO OOOOO OOO O OOO
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenermac
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I got started on Heroes: Chronicles. I own all of them and still play them. If you are a fan of 
 Chronicles, there is no reason you shouldn't like this one. It's the same game but on steroids. 
 I recommend it definately. It takes about a half hour to get used to the interface but all in all, 
 it's the same thing.
  The people who say it's a hack, haven't played the others, else they would realize it's the same 
 game just improved. The battlefield mode is awesome.
  On the older versions, it's all 2D, but this one sets the standard for 3D turn based games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussinator
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  The fifth heroes' gameplay is a mirror image of number three par a few minor changes, number four's 
 was tragic, so this 'comeback' has brought the series back together. The 3d environment is emmersive 
 and innovative to say the least. items and skills are as important as ever in creating your god-like 
 hero. significant detail in the story lines captures the players immagination. The lack of a random 
 map generator is irritating. The general jist of the game is, it's heroes 3, with major graphical 
 enhancements and a new story... and a nice menu screen. beware the game only runs on a few graphics 
 cards and it may take some time before more GPUs are supported (if the creators ever get round 
 to it) .
  If you are a heroes fan, this is a breath of fresh air after the putrid homm4.
  good soundtrack (heroes compilation - by glass) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeroen_batman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  FROM THE MANIAC 
  This is a new beautiful Heroes 5 game Like the old Heroes and its great to play this serie and 
 Story is right its about war and a funny gameplay like the oldies if you play the game its not 
 right but later its amazing! and you can make your own maps and your heroes you can chose and of 
 course the castle you walk around with a beast or something others So play this game 
  and have big 
 
  and if you dont like it you are a fat ass!
  
  and the movie is great too and hope so that expansion comes 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nullsubstance
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V it's the first game of the serie that i played and was a suprise to 
 me. i didin't know how addictive this game are.. the way the story are give to us and the fact that 
 we have to play with diferent factions to continue the story i think is briliante. I don't like 
 so much the fact that before some time playing the battles starts to get a little boring becouse 
 they are basicly always the same!! but even so i am a fan of rpg style and Hereos of Might have 
 a bit of that... for me this game is aproved;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emsdarasti
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Heroes 5 is a combination of its predecesors , because it boroughs all the extreme elements that 
 made us play the other parts of the game. It is structured like heroes 3 because it has the same 
 mode of creature management 7 creature per race each with 1 upgrade that gives it stuning properties 
 and abilities. For example the pit fiend if it is upgrade he gets the meteor shour ability that 
 whipes out all the oponents on a area of 7 by 7 squares. Another good point is the hero management. Unlike 
 the heroes 4 it cannot be harmed and cannot move but it can atack any creature on the map with 
 low damage done. There are 6 main skils that the hero has and each of it has another 3 subskills 
 plus a very big variety of magic abilities and magic powers that balancesthe scales betwen heroes 
 such as the fantom wariors power who has the same efect as mirror image.
  Heroes 5 has 6 clases of witch you can choose , they are empire, sylvan , inferno, necropolis, academy 
 and dungeon. A big lost is the removal of barbarian class a classic of this series. Empire is identic 
 with the human empire in heroes 3 and 4 with the same troops but with few improvements like the 
 ability of paladins (champions in the other series) that can heal troops on the battlefield and 
 the archangel who can revive troops in the middle of the battle.
  The inferno is very alike with the heroes 3 demon race. The efreet is missing but the succubus 
 comes to take its place with extreme chain of fire that has the same effect as the chain lighting 
 spell. The pit lord is the second in comand troop after the devil but it has the ability of casting 
 destructive magic as meteor shour fire bolt weaknes and a ability that al the demons have. This 
 ability is the improvement of this race because they can call reinforcements (summon the same kind 
 of troops by the number of of troops you have and the level your hero has) . The supreme unit is 
 the devil and he summons pit lords instead of devils.
  The dungeon is combination of dragons lizards and dark elves. After being banished from their lands 
 some of the elves have sworn vengeance to theyr former leaders and formed a order called the dark 
 elves under the protection of the dragon of darknes. They have taken shelter under the earth and 
 fith to regain their former lands. They keep only two of theyr former creatures the minotaurs and 
 the black dragons who are the supreme creature in heroes 5 like in all the other series of this 
 game.
  The sylvan are in fact the elves the people of the forest .They are very strong race with almost 
 the same creatures. New apearances are the blade dancers mellee fighters, the druids, who are strong 
 casters, and the emerald dragons that have almost the same abilities as heroes 3 gold dragons. Unlike 
 the fourth part of the game the dragons arent casters any more a good thing by my opinion because 
 theyr power was imense in heigher ranks.
  T he academy is very much like the wizards in heroes 3 and 2. They are the most powerfull casters 
 , they have controll over the elements and they have very expensive troops. The troops are the 
 same just that they have a new look with asian swords and hats, riding elephants and walking thro 
 the deserts.
  The last race is the well known undead which is called necropolis. It has the weakest troops in 
 the game but they come in large numbers when recruted. They are also cheap us hell. The only troop 
 that has been removed from the third parth is the death knight who is a neutral creature now as 
 the elements and the phoenix. He has been replaced by the wraith (a big gost that looks like the 
 death) .
  The game is great and it has a big campaign with a very well made story talking about the fall 
 of the griphin empire after the rise of the demon mesiah a half men half demon hero who can rule 
 both races with a iron fist.
  That is my rewiew, hope you like it and sory for the twisted words and my bad english. I'M FROM 
 ROMANIA AND MY EMAIL ADRESS IS ems_klux_klan@yahoo. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlaZe-747
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  i really liked Heroes III and Heroes IV and i thought that Heroes V would kick ass but i found 
 it boring. the 3d graphics made it look stupid. they had changed some stuff in the battle mode. 
 since the battles was the part of heroes IV i liked the most and now they have ruined it. but one 
 thing was good with heroes V, u could upgrade your units (archers -  marksmen) and that was something 
 i really liked and i missed it a lot in heroes IV. but plz dont waste your time playin heroes IV 
 play heroes III or Heroes IV instead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeityCode
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good: This game totally rocks. Fabulous graphics, great strategy, and challenging combat make 
 this a totally addictive game experience that will deliver many hours of questing.
  
  The Bad: The manual sucks.
  
  This is the first Heroes game I have played and I am thoroughly 
 enchanted. First you are put into a fantastically illustrated totally 3D world of forests, rivers, 
 lakes, mountains, hills, dales, glades, meadows, volcanoes and volcanic terrainevery imaginable 
 setting, and populated with unique and interesting creatures. The graphics and animations are so 
 well done they flow, the colors are brilliant and the sharpness of the resolution is stunning.
 
  
  Then an interesting story and a desperate struggle erupt to send you off to adventure. You have 
 several main characters, or heroes, and each map focuses on a task that hero must accomplish. The 
 hero must assemble an army and eventually capture a city to establish a base. Once this is done 
 the hero can set about to better equip his army by building up the city. Resources such as wood, 
 ore, gems, etc are found outside the city and are always guarded by some kind of creature or creatures 
 that need to be vanquished. Combat takes place on a tactical combat map and even this is turn controlled. 
 Success depends on the choices you make, as the hero, in the combat. The strategy involved in combat 
 can be straight forward ranged and melee assaults or can be combined with magic attacks or spells 
 cast by your hero. The better your strategy is fewer members of your army are lost. 
  
  This game has a complex combat system and hero development is everything. Also the main hero can 
 hire other heroes to aid in beating a particular map and you must take care with the new heros 
 development if you want him or her to survive. This game is so complex that one would hope the 
 publisher would ensure an adequate manual was included; this is not to be, the manual is totally 
 inadequate in helping you play the game. I was not able to find any reference to campaign play. 
 It is useful to a point then you are on your own. The in game tutorial/help menus helps a little 
 but not enough. Our only option is to buy the Prima Guide. I have found some errors there but it 
 is better than not having it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing games in the Might and Magic universe since the original Might and Magic RPG 
 on my Commodore 64 back in 1988 or so. I love the universe, and was enthralled by the way the developers 
 combined the fantasy universe and excellent turn-based strategy presented in the Heroes of Might 
 and Magic series. Heroes II hooked me for good, and I have purchased all of them since, including 
 their expansions, gold packs, etc. Heroes 4 was one I was very excited for, but eventually stopped 
 playing. Though it was a good game, it didn't quite sit with the other games, and felt lacking, 
 especially after heroes III and its excellent expansion packs. So bring in Nival Interactive and 
 their experienced turn-based team. If you haven't played any of their other games, I would highly 
 recommend Etherlords II (and the first, if you can find it) . I knew the Heroes series was in good 
 hands. 
  
  Buying the game on the first day, I rushed home to install it, only to find that I couldn't play 
 it once I did. The graphics were smooth, but my mouse wouldn't move at all. It took me a few minutes 
 just to get it to the quit menu. It took two days of searching forums and finally downloading the 
 Microsoft DirectX update (which I had already installed with previous games) to get past the bug. 
 A friend of mine couldn't even launch his copy because of the DirectX issue as well.
  
  Once past this issue, I found the game a delight to play. The single player story is a good one, 
 and the characters, armies, and races are beautifully rendered, and the artwork is fitting for 
 the setting of the game. I was very pleased. However, in some cases, rotating the camera on the 
 overland map brought the framerate down to about 5 fps. If I was ever in that angle on the map, 
 I couldn't do much but rotate it back to speed up the gameplay. The only other complaint I have 
 is with the combat camera. Unlike the overland camera where you have freedom to pan and scan and 
 rotate and zoom, in combat, you can zoom and rotate, but not pan and scan. In other words, your 
 camera is always focused on a center point on the battlefield, so you can never rotate to look 
 directly at your hero or get a closeup view on the creatures unless they are right in the middle 
 of the field. 
  
  The spell effects are excellent and the graphics are colorful and fun, and the creatures are imaginative 
 and well-animated. I enjoy the combination of special creature powers, hero interaction on the 
 battlefield, spells, castle management, etc. Some of the sounds get repetitive, especially in battle, 
 but I didn't notice them too much. I did manage to play one Multiplayer match on the Internet using 
 the new Ghost mode, and it is nice to have something to do while the other players work their way 
 around the map. However, the ghost mode music is thoroughly annoying, and it plays the whole time 
 while you wait for the other players to finish.
  
  The final issue I have is the lack of any map editor. I know that the new 3D engine may make it 
 more difficult, but the play life of the game will definitely fall flat, especially considering 
 the extra maps included only number 8 or so. I don't think that does the fans much justice, and 
 I keep hoping they will release an editor as a future free download. Who knows?
  
  There are so many good things that I feel badly about pointing out the flaws. If you enjoy turn-based 
 strategy and/or love the Heroes series, pick this up. If you might want to pick it up, I would 
 make sure my computer meets more than the minimum specs (it is quite a system hog) . There is so 
 much on each map to explore and experience, it is worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linsig
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 12, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  I paid $50 for this game and it's so ridden with problems I can't even play it. I have tried this 
 on 3 different computers and the game isn't playable on any of them. The specs of all 3 computers 
 meet or exceed the requirements. One of the computers is a brand new high end that exceeds the 
 requirements by 10 miles and the game plays so slowly with terrible mouse drag that it is virtually 
 unplayable. I am totally disgusted. It seems to me that marketing a game like this is nothing more 
 than a high class scam on the unsuspecting consumer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rubensquall
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  A great game, but heroes 3 is still the best of them.3DO rules. The story line from campaign mode 
 is awsome, i think it's the best i've ever seen. There's a really weak point on this game though, 
 MP maps and single maps are really few, and u can't almost choose your castle freelly, cause it's 
 already implemented on the map. ubisoft should release soon an update of their mp maps. And if 
 possible, great ones. I erally loved that Europe map on heroes 3. And where's the almighty orcs? 
 such as behemoth?! I hope they implement it at their expansion pack. Still, a good game to play, 
 a lot better than the 4th one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasdo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: great gameplay, but not as great as in Heroes 3. That is deceiving but it is still not 
 bad. The heroes now have a lot more skills to chose from but 2 of the 8 factions have disapperead. 
 Moreover, the story of the campain is simply ridiculous.
  
  Graphics: I believe that they are great since this game is still a turn-based strategy game. They 
 are not astonishing but they are satisfying.
  
  Sound: Weak point of the game. Few sund bugs. The lips of the characters are not even moving during 
 cinematics. Moreover, the musics can be boring after sometimes.
  
  Value: I believe that the game is worth buying even if we all believed that this game would be 
 a lot better than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopo2006
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 12, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  this game was bad stratgy game in one day then it come to us with a stupid RPG game that make it 
 worse.
  
  The game dirctor thoaght that he just can make a beutefull STRATGY game like war craft.
  
  
 He want to just turn an stratgy to RPG game in such an easy way that's very stupid from way to 
 other.
  
  what i can say about the game that the grafics were stupid and the gameplay was worse than grafics 
 badness.
  
  I hope they don't do a bad game like this on or the games willbe distroyed by it's coolness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasds
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  This game is not my type of game, for me of course, I played this game for several hours, I passed 
 the first campaign and had about enough, because I don't like this game I like RTS and other strategy 
 games. I din't like the game because it has one character to move, and I like to move the whole 
 army, and it doesn't move freely in the game, when we have moved with the character we have to 
 wait for a day (in the game) and to get more soldiers we have to wait for a week. That's my opinion 
 of the game, but if you like this game you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwallaceyankees
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I have played all of the previous HOM&M games, and they all have been great. I can't say I have 
 a favorite, but this one isn't bad. I like the direction Ubisoft took with this game, however, 
 there is a lot of difference to me. I don't like the idea of only having 6 factions and sometimes 
 the camera angles with the new interface can be difficult. It also takes a while to get used to 
 the layout of the game - what to click to get where and what do I click to do that- type of thing. 
 But there is a lot of great things about the game and I also feel Ubisoft did enough to keep the 
 game in touch with fans. I really enjoyed the graphics and the over 200 abilities (!) . Not to mention, 
 the replay value on any HOM&M game is worth the price. A must buy for fans of the series, genre, 
 or people who enjoy new adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonu38
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I was anticipating this game for so long after playing the hell out of Heroes 3 and playing Heroes 
 IV as long as I could take it. I love these types of games and was overjoyed to hear that ubisoft 
 was gonna release a new version (although I wasn't that optimistic) .
  
  Turns out that they mostly just improved the graphics and made it more like 3 1/2 instead of 5. 
 They improved the graphics from 3 but didn't include all the features from 3 and then improve on 
 them.
  
  I have played this game for over 15 hours and wil continue to play it but I am definitely looking 
 for some expansions and new features.
  
  Have fun playing and keep giving ideas so we can keep this game going and improve on the next version 
 or expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geocide666
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jun 8, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Exact same game as 4 except with "upgraded" graphics. 
  This game was released long before it was complete. During the installation, the installaer went 
 from needing disk 1 to needing disk 3, completely skipping disk two. 
  
  NOw the game plays but after about 10 minutes slows down so badly that it is unplayable. My specs 
 are more then twice what the game calls for (2 g ram, 256 vid ram, 3g processor. i mean come on! 
 Not to mention my machine runs ES: oblivion like a champ)
  
  In my opinion this game should ne be paid for as it is not complete. Pirate it if you can, but 
 dont spend more then 10 bucks for this pitiful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nadav1991
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  As i said this game is one of the best strategys games i ever played maybe not as good as heroes 
 III but it will make you sit infront of your computer for a very long time. This game is very fun 
 but it also hard in a fun way (not hard that makes you want to burn your computer) , i think the 
 story of this game is pretty good maybe not the best but it is interesting. one of the best things 
 in this game is its music, it is so good that it will make it hard to you to end your turn or go 
 for a fight but even in the fights it will make it hard for you to feel like you want to finsh 
 it. So in the end i need to say buy this, buy this game and play it untill you cant play anymore! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  As some of you know , i am an officer in the Heroes of Might and Magic 5 Union, so this is my oppinion:
 
  First hte man made the fire , the n he build the houses, the pc and further on ... after some 
 time Heroes of Might and Magic came ( HOMM) and this is where the story begins.... One of the most 
 played games was HOMM 3, a game that you all played or have listened and then HOMM 4, but that 
 is where the story of 3DO has ended, and UBISOFT came in.... They have managed to design a Marvelous 
 Game named Heroes of Might and Magic 5, what can i say about it, here goes: Wonderfull story, really 
 great graphics, dorm 2d to 3d, one of the biggest changes that Ubisoft made, great music, even 
 more great for the castles, very good gameplay. Thsi is one game most of all for the fans of the 
 HOMM series. If you would like to see the new creatures and heroes in HOMM 5 and all the new changes 
 2006 has to offer for the people that play TBS games , year that gaved us Heroes of Might and Magic 
 5. Play it , I guarantee you will not regret it. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  I was really worried about Heroes of Might & Magic V. The game has been part of a franchise belonging 
 to 3DO, and I was very anxious that a new developer wouldn't be able to capture the magic of the 
 series. Add to that that I was extremely disappointed with HoMM IV, and you can understand why 
 I was a little skeptical about this newest installment.
  
  The gameplay is very easy to learn. Some of the individual missions are a bit difficult, but overall 
 the difficulty is just right. As a turn-based game, you have a lot more time to think about your 
 next move and strategy figures very heavily into your play. If you're a first time player of the 
 series, the entire first campaign (out of 6) is a bit of a tutorial. This is definitely a game 
 that is "easy to learn, hard to master". For players of previous games in the series - you'll probably 
 pick everything up lightning fast as the gameplay is pretty much the same as it was in other games 
 in the series.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, and Nival managed to capture the charming quality that was present 
 in Heroes I, II and III. I've been playing heavily for 2 weeks now, and I still love watching the 
 units' animations. The music is beyond gorgeous. Each town has its own theme, and it definitely 
 makes town maintenance a joy.
  
  As for value, I've been playing pretty much non-stop for two weeks and I'm a smidge past the halfway 
 mark in the campaign. For me it's definitely been worth the money. My only complaints with the 
 game are that the manual is pretty chintzy. Regarding the campaign, I can see why some people complain 
 about the voice acting. Really, though, the voice acting is quite good for the most part. The biggest 
 probem has been that some of the lines are a bit on the cheesy side, reminding me vaguely of the 
 Thundercats saying "Thundercats, HOOOOO!" (god, I loved that show :-) ) The campaign itself, though, 
 is very interesting. Personally, I can't wait to see how the story winds up :-)
  
  I definitely give this game my recommendation. It's very polished, and it's evident that a lot 
 of love went into crafting the game. In my opinion, it's the best in the series so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Face it, this game is just cool. Has the great addictive gameplay that the last ones 
 had, and upgraded it greatly. More units, and skills.
  
  The Bad: The multiplayer is very bad. Some camera problems. I'm not a fan of manuals, but this 
 one is just, blah.
  
  YES! They have finally made another part of the Heroes of Might and Magic series. This is what 
 they should have done, because this game is just awesome. This is a turn based strategy game, and 
 all I could say about that game is that the civilization series will have some competition. This 
 will be sure to please the fans. But, since the last couple of parts were kick ass, the fans of 
 this series will have some pretty high standards. So, what they decided to do was the play it safe. 
 They knew that if all of the new features they add were bad, the whole series would be ruined. 
 Was it a good move, or a bad move we don't know. They have added a cool new features, and have 
 done great graphics, but they have done nothing too major. But, even if they decided to play it 
 safe, they still made the game awesome. I would recommend this game to people who want to play 
 solo, and is a fan of turn based strategy games.
  
  The story line of this game is like that other strategy game I played, but I forgot what's it called 
 (Please help me remember, you know you create your own hero and you lead an army, I loved that 
 game, oh well) . Anyway, the story of the game is that you command these heroes, because you know 
 that's the title, and you must command him and his army to do quite some turn based strategy battles. 
 Well, not only are there battles, but you must go to some certain locations that are filled with 
 treasure, and like, ruins, and you can't forget about the battles.
  
  This turned based strategy game also has an rpg touch to it. Each unit you kill, map you've beaten, 
 or found some stuff, you're hero will gain xp. Not only will your heroes get better skills, and 
 more magic and do more damage, but you will have a better army to lead.
  
  The combat part of this game is similar to Warlords. Which could be quite good. You can either 
 do a hit at the enemy, the ability to cast a spell, or even a skill. There will be some more additions 
 in the combat part of the game. There is also the interactive bar, with this, you can see the whole 
 order for battle. Also, have you ever heard of the quote "If you're happy, you attack twice?" Yeah 
 I just made that up right now. Anyway, even because you're unit is like super happy, you can't 
 do a double attack. 
  
  Like the last parts, and that game I forgot what it was, you can choose what race to be, such as 
 the undead, knights, demons, and more. Most of them are the same, like game wise, but each of them 
 have a different amout of units, and a few unique abilities as well, so they're all equal. :D
 
  
  The campaigns of the game is quite simple. In fact, it does lack interest. On the first campaign, 
 it's a tutorial campaign. It's like Age of Empires 2, but that campaign actually was interesting. 
 In this tutorial campaign, the six missions are incredibly boring, and even worse, they take a 
 long time because the maps are enourmous. And when I mean enourmous, I mean like Civilization in 
 huge map mode enormous. Then you must do the Haven campaign, it is more interesting than the tutorial, 
 but it's still quite boring. Then at the next campaign became interesting. Not only was it actually 
 starting to get fun, but it wasn't a breeze for me anymore.
  
  Unfortunately, they have taken out some of the heroes in a hero game, I mean come on! First of 
 all, they put your hero like right at the back of the battlefield, so that your whole army is just 
 like covering your hero. That means that your hero will survive, but that you won't have the risk 
 and the challenge of your hero dieing. Also, they limit the numbers for the amount of heroes that 
 can be in a certain mission. That does mean a good thing, because you're forced to balance out 
 the amount of heroes, unless you're one of those guys who will only focus on one or two heroes.
 
  
  There are some new features in the game. There are now tons of new bonuses for your army, such 
 as a huge variety of new skills that you're heroes will have now. Rangers can now declare racial 
 enemies, and now that knights can counterattack. They are missing some cool stuff in the game though. 
 That has to do with the maps. There are no editing tools, which sucks because making maps is fun. 
 Also, you only have this small number of maps that you have in the first place. So if you're not 
 in love with one of the maps, then you will get bored of the maps, which is bad.
  
  Ahhh, the manual. Oh how I hate the manual. If you don't know me, I want to read the least amount 
 possible. That's why I rarely use the manual. There are some good manuals though, like the Shadow 
 of the Colossus manual, or the We Love Katamari manual, but this one just sucks. The information 
 on the manual only shows the basic stuff of the game, which leaves you on you're on for like three 
 quarters of the other stuff. Don't be surprised if you don't get the game, you're going to have 
 a longer learning curve now.
  
  The graphics of this game is finally very well done. The game now has 3D graphics in both combat, 
 and the other gameplay types. Now, every single detail of the combat mode is great, even close 
 up. It's not like those other games where the pixels extend, like Tropico. Also, the environment 
 of the game is just awesome. The towns are purty; and when you look at the town in a surrounding 
 view, the view of the game is just so beautiful.
  
  But, when it comes to the technical part of the game, about 90% of games will something that will 
 be bad with the game. Well, this game does has it's drawbacks. When you are in like an underground 
 map, it's hard to place the map, and it's really easy to miss items. You gotta do a 360 spin around 
 every section of the map.
  
  The sound of the game is actually quite as bad as the the last paragraph. Even if you're fighting 
 like an army of 1000 demons, you only hear like some quiet thingy. Weird.... Also, the music of 
 the game is like lu de la de duh de da da. Not very interesting as you can see.
  
  The multiplayer... I know that it is a challenge to make a multiplayer game for turn based strategy 
 games. But, Civilization 4 did a fantastic job when it came to the multiplayer. Also, Age of Wonders 
 also did it successful. They have ghost mode, which is pretty cool, but useless, and we crashed 
 more times than a guy who just drank 20 bottles of liquor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjarni1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Im a true fan of HOMM (not IV though) so this aint some haters review, and if you have never played 
 HOMM before, don't bother to read this.
  the short version is here
  Campaign - could have been good, but they blew it
  Scenarios - huh, what scenarios?
  Multiplayer 
 - I mean, 8 maps? and they're not even interesting!
  Long version
  Gameplay is true to the HOMM3 we all know and love and for that this game gets credit, but the 
 lack of scenarios and most importantly the lack of the scenario editor make all that great gameplay 
 worthless, Its like having this great football, but no room to play with it!
  And Im afraid that the campaign is not going to save this game, the story isnt terrible but those 
 In-game-cinematics are some of the worst Ive seen, the voice acting is just painfully bad, the 
 campaign maps go really fast from fun and easy, to boring, insanely frustrating and really really 
 hard! And after I beat it, I just thought DAMN! thats more than 2 weeks I aint ever getting back!! 
 
  Multiplayer.... well it's not good, It could have been great, but as I said earlier those not-so 
 interesting 8 maps don't offer much replayability... or fun. 
  
  If you are a HOMM fan and you're thinking of buying this, I suggest you wait for some major downloadable 
 improvements, like a scenario editor, then this game will finally offer some kind of a fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warwompit
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping for something really new, all I got were better graphics and a decent sound track. 
 Other than that it's the same old game where you need to take a leave of absence from work just 
 to have enough time to play a level. But the best is yet to come... After spending hours creating 
 what YOU think is a decent army, the computer appears on your doorstep with ten times the troops 
 (not an exaggeration) . I kept playing in the hopes that it would get better, but *sigh* no such 
 luck.
  
  The Custom Game feature was so disappointing that I had to take a shower after seeing it to cleanse 
 myself of the garbage. It's not "custom" games, it's 5 more pre-defined scenarios. Your not even 
 allowed to pick what race you get to be.
  
  I've come to expect great things from Ubisoft (although they tend to make their games a little 
 on the difficult side) . Brothers in Arms was excellent, FarCry in Multiplayer is a blast. Do yourself 
 a favor, spend your money on one of those titles instead of on Heroes V 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigerace77
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Great game, I'm loving it. It keeps true to the roots but adds so much more. The music is amazing 
 and fits the environment battles and castles you are in. Also the monsters and heroes look better 
 than ever. I feel like I'm a bird in the sky flying over it while it all goes down below me. 
 
  
  I've been playing heroes III for years and that game was close to flawless as i could find but 
 this game meets those standards and goes past it. 3-D helps and looks great, sound is amazing, 
 and just plain fun. Good game to waste time on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Well the HOMM series is back with the latest HOMM 5 and what does it brings?
  I'll start briefly, first i was glad that the game was released and that the world of HOMM is continued.
 
  On first look you notice the graphics and the sound which i'll review them later.
  Story: Well things have goten mixed again and all the sides must battle out and win the so long 
 lasting war. But things are a little more complicated now as we see a couple of unpredictable alliances 
 being made.
  The thing is that the infernal forces attack the humans (haven) again and the war starts again, 
 but there will be many interesting moments in the story which i'm not gona tell you as i dont want 
 to take out the fun while playing the game.
  There are 6 campaigns owerall and each campaign has 5 missions that last very long, mostly beacose 
 the dificulty even at normal (easiest) is pretty darn hard.
  On average 1 mission will take about 3-5 hours of time to be abble to win it.
  But even with 
 that long missions it doesent become boring as the map are full with details and have interesting 
 artifacts, dungeons, underground levels, guarding monsters and stuff.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good and the colours are more like paint-ones rather that realistic 
 but thats for the better as you wouldent like a fantasy world with mages, elv's, humans, monsters 
 and similar creatures with some realistic graphics. So the graphics are very well implemented in 
 the game, while you wont need a high-end PC to play it with all the detailes on.
  The maps as i've sed are full with details and very from one to another and one part why the maps 
 are so good is that Nival went for quality rather that quantity, so dont expect too many maps.
 
  
  Gameplay: Well the gameplay resembles much of HOMM 3 but it also is quite diffrent, so you can 
 consider it like a mix of HOMM 3 and new gameplay. You now have your hero at the battelfield activly 
 being there while it cant be targeted, the hero can learn many spells depending mostly on what 
 abilities you learn after you raise a level and increasing your knowledge it the same ability will 
 allow you to more efectivly cast spells or do other things more effectivly all depending on the 
 abilities learned.
  The fighting system is generally good, except some unbalances and few bugs.
  
  Sound: The music 
 is great and the developers even created diffrent music for all the factions and for every case 
 scenario, so when you go to your home city a special music will start, when you exit it another 
 music will start, if you go in a difrent point on the map a difrent music and so on...
  Voice acting is good, while some gaming sites reviewed it as bad, mostly concerning the Haven princess, 
 i think it's good, although some inferno cut-scenes acting could have been much better. Overall 
 the sound is good.
  
  All and all i think that Nival made a good job and the game is very interesting and addictive. 
 While more testing for balance could have been done still every mission is beatable at least on 
 the easiest setting, the AI is quite good but it could be a lot better and the game is hard beacose 
 of the enemy creature numbers rather that the AI. There are enough spells, artifacts and creatures 
 to keep you interested until you beat the game- which will require more than 25 hours of playing 
 but after the lack of editor is felt, but not to worry as there will be an editor and although 
 we may need to wait mauby even 2 months until it's released.
  If you are fan of the series like me it would be a shame not to own this game or if you are looking 
 for a interesting turn based strategy game HOMM 5 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STRKML
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Ah the good old days when I was running windows 95 and 98. I didn't have a decent computer at that 
 time, just slightly better than a 386 but I did have Heroes of Might and Magic, and at the time 
 I thought it was one of the best games I had ever played.
  
  Understand the original game is still a fun game to play but a little shabby on the graphics compared 
 to the most recent release in the series. When I first saw the screenshots I didnt have high expectations 
 but that changed when I finally got to play the game.
  
  Graphically this game is awesome and a much better upgrade to its predecessors which up to number 
 4 still used a 3D topdown display. The game introduces many new features one of which being a rotatable 
 camera in both landscape and tactical displays so you can see the world and battles from any angle. 
 Cinematics are another new feature that the game introduced, with the storyline being played out 
 for you with voice acting instead of reading blocks of text.
  
  The abilities have also been reworked and many new abilities and skills have been added for the 
 various heroes you can control during the game in both campaign and skirmish mode. Some of these 
 abilities are unique to certain races, one of these being Gateway which is unique to the demon 
 empire. Increasing this ability allows for the various units in your army to summon troops of their 
 respective type at a location chosen by you once per battle. After a few turns the troops will 
 be summoned and your army will be increased for that battle. After the battle they do not stay 
 with your army, requiring you to resummon them again every battle. Summoned units make perfect 
 cannon fodder since there is no real impact from them dying since they can always be resummoned 
 at the next battle.
  
  Another new addition is the reworked battle phase. In the previous games the player had to switch 
 unit places around in the landscape view before entering a battle to make sure that the unit was 
 in a good position. Now, before the battle begins the player can place his units wherever he wishes 
 inside a specific area, normally 2 rows, but this can be increased by investing into the tactics 
 skill, to a maximum of 5 rows. This is a double edged sword, while tactics does allow you to be 
 more flexible with your unit placement, it also allows the enemy get to your units sooner. This 
 can be annoying if you have ranged units in the 4th or 5th row for increased damage, because as 
 long as there is a enemy unit close to your ranged units, they must use close combat which can 
 be very difficult if the enemy has hard hitting units such as Paladins or Arch-Devils leading the 
 assault.
  
  Also the hero cannot be struck in combat unlike the previous games. Now the hero sits behind your 
 army away from the battle. They can still attack and cast spells, but they cannot be killed. Instead 
 the combat is lost if all standing units are destroyed, not including any extra units that are 
 behind your lines.
  
  Siege has also been reworked, now units cannot directly attack walls and gates as seen in the previous 
 games, but instead melee units must wait until the catapult has destroyed the gate or a section 
 of the wall. The catapult unfortunately cannot be controlled, unless you have the appropriate skills 
 to allow it so depending on the AI it may be a while until you have made a big enough hole to get 
 your units through. A catapult does not take up a slot in your army and cannot be produced in town. 
 Every hero in your army comes with a small army and a catapult, they may have extra units depending 
 on their skills.
  
  The catapult itself sits behind your lines and unfortunately can be destroyed if a melee unit can 
 get close enough so it is wise to leave a weaker unit to guard the catapult in case the siege goes 
 badly. Other units that sit behind your lines include the First Aid Tent, Ammo Cart and Ballista, 
 which are controlled by the AI unless the hero has the respective skills to control them manually.
 
  
  All in all a very challenging game that is definetly worth a high score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ovrman
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm a veteran of all the HOMM titles, with III being my favorite. Like many others, Ive long awaited 
 this game. 
  
  Strengths:
  - Nice 3D graphics; units and terrain are modeled quite well. The animations and 'eyecandies' (sp?) 
 are beautiful.
  
  -Gameplay and general strategic options closely resemble HOMM II and III; which, IMO, were the 
 best.
  
  -The campaign story is entertaining, but nothing memorable or groundbreaking.
  
  -The unique factions have their own strengths and weaknesses and are detailed accordingly.
 
  
  -New, integrated skill and abilities system. Lots of cool customization potential for heroes.
 
  
  -City views and building structures is much more interesting than before.
  
  Weaknesses:
  - Annoying camera control; the adventure map seems small and confined compared to 
 earlier versions. Its nice to zoom in on the detailed buildings and structures, but its difficult 
 to get a good feel for the "big picture" or overview on the adventure map. I like playing on large 
 (XL) maps, so this is a major issue for me.
  
  -Limited camera control on the battlefield screen. It would be nice to zoom in to the 3D models 
 on the grid board during combat. The camera is limited and the resulting view is too far away from 
 the actual detail during battles. I can never seem to find the right view during combat.
  
  -No wandering armies.
  
  -Lack of diversity among artifacts. I think there is only like 40 
 in the entire game.
  
  Bottom Line:
  Veteran HOMM fans like myself will enjoy the graphical face-lift, overhauled factions, and new 
 skill/ability options... but may have difficulty adjusting to the new 3D engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggster4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Ive never played any of the previous versions of Might and Magic before, but this one caught my 
 eye I think for the most part due to the 3D graphics it was able to do. Lately I have been spoiled 
 due to all the 1st and 3rd person computer games out there and have stopped buying very many if 
 at all 2D games. The game play so far on this game seems to work nicely. Even my 7 year old daughter 
 can play it and she likes it too. It kind of reminds me of a computer chess game I played a while 
 back called Battle Chess. Thats one of the reasons I like it to due to the strategy involved with 
 it. Im only on the 4th mission so far in the game playing on the normal mode. Thought I would 
 stay with that mode so as to be able to let my daughter play some of the battles out while I step 
 away from game then take back over from her and not lose out too mush in terms of men and things. 
 The one draw back I see so far seems to be the lack of info on creatures and men, but I suppose 
 that would be easy enough to over look. Im sure that soon their will be a cheat book out for it 
 in the near future. Wish the price on the games when they first come out wouldnt be so high. You 
 have to almost check on the games by reviews and such nowadays or you might just buy yourself a 
 lemon of a game that gets played for an hour or less. Then put to the bottom of the forgotten games 
 pile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShienYeh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm pleased to see UBI soft makes it possible publishing Homm5, after 3DO's bankruptcy. I give 
 it a title "A restoration of Homm3, but adding Homm4's concept." The spells, armies , city produce 
 all come from homm3's type. The hero's skills, the most important element in game, is combined 
 with the concept in homm3 and homm4. As a rpg fan, who had played Might and Magic 3-9 and Homm 
 2-5, I must say that homm5's design can be the best in series. But, too many things make it imperfect:
 
  
  1. Poor Manual. I still don't know why we can't get any description from Spells, Creatures, skills, 
 or Artifacts in manual, either in pdf manual. 
  
  2. Too Few Custom Maps. Yes, the campaign is a long story. But where are the random maps? 
  
 
  3. No Map Editor. Maybe its the worst decision they made. They provide us few custom maps, and 
 don't give us map editor. So the value in this game is greatly decreased because of few variety.
 
  
  Compared to the three main defect; minor ones such like poor music (compared to Homm3 and Homm4) 
 and some bugs seem not so important. Maybe UBI soft has its pressure to publish in right date. 
 I believe that there will be a patch soon. Hope the problems can be solved. Now I agree Gamespot's 
 Score. I give is 8.2 score, too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maderik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm very happy to have HoMM back after being left hanging for years. Secondly, I'm even 
 more happy to see that Ubisoft has tried very hard to remain true to the best of the game. HoMM 
 V will remind old veterans very much of the third game in the series, which some consider the finest. 
 In fact, very little was changed with what was obviously a winning formula. I commend the devs 
 for avoiding the temptation to 'fix' or 'tweak' a great deal about the way the game is played. 
 
  
  That being said, it's a shame that 3d technology could not have been implemented better. The rotating/zooming/panning 
 camera view is purely annoying, but you HAVE to use it in order to see everything, especially underground. 
 It's clunky, demanding on the PC's video resources, and confusing. I have to remember constantly 
 to rotate the view back to a 'northward' view, so I don't lose my bearings. As I mentioned above, 
 it's worse underground. You have to spin the camera to look up the dark, narrow tunnels. Rather 
 than being a 'feature', this camera rotation is more of an annoying necessity.
  
  There are a few glitches, some of which can prevent you from completing a map. The necromancer 
 mission 1 is one such example. If you move too slowly in exploring the map, or wait too long grabbing 
 goodies, the enemy player moves to block the only way forward, and this mission fails you if you 
 make enemy contact at all. You are subsequently trapped and unable to continue. The bug freezes 
 the AI enemy and he won't move again. It's a rather severe bug that should have been taken care 
 of before release. There are some others.
  
  The storyline is fairly decent, though a bit convoluted and sometimes hard to swallow. The voice 
 acting is passable, though certainly not award-winning. They took the easy way out for cutscenes, 
 simply using the standard in-game animations and models for the characters. They look OK close 
 up, but certainly not of the quality one expects for game cutscenes.
  
  The music was also a disappointment. I clearly remember the haunting beauty of prior soundtracks. 
 This one seems sadly uninspired at best, and gratingly annoying at worst.
  
  Although the linear campaign is pretty extensive, a lot of folks are wondering where the rest of 
 the content is. I'm hoping they didn't hamstring the game just to sell expansions later, but that 
 would be typical. : ( Still, the campaigns are enough to keep you up past 3 am for many, many nights.
 
  
  All in all, if you're a fan of the series, you'll probably love this game and waste countless hours 
 taking 'just one more turn'. I do recommend it, and am very pleased with the $50 investment. You'll 
 get a lot of fun gaming hours for the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonlord55555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Heroes of might and magic V is basically everything Heroes 3 with better graphics and a few new 
 perks. I am glad that they took the basis off of Heroes 3 and not Heroes 4 because I prefer the 
 former over the latter. They have updated graphics, a new initiative system, creature abilities, 
 a campaign for each race, and what I've been waiting for since the original... Dark elves. An above 
 average game with very addictive game-play and true replay value. This game is a huge recommendation 
 to anyone who loves strategy games and who is following the heroes franchise. A gem in the heroes 
 series and an overall good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirilyuro
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I'm very glad that it was done on Heroes III style and not Heroes IV! The game has very nice graphics, 
 horrible sound, which ruins a little the playing experience : (... Also when I was playing Heroes 
 V, I felt like something's missing... I can't tell for sure what it is, but it just doesn't give 
 the Heroes III atmosphere and for me it's a big minus. 
  What I really like is the soldiers' combat ability option and multiple magic powers for the magic 
 useres soldiers, really a great addition! 
  In conclusion, I think it's a very nice game and a good addition to the Heroes series that worth 
 buying and playing, and I'm sure that the Heroes fans who LOVED Heroes III and hated Heroes IV, 
 which was a disaster and a GREAT SHAME to the Heroes series in my opinion, will like Heroes V.
 
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic V definitly gets an 8 out of 10 from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Nival was tried once with etherlords series but something goes bad.
  Now they are trying to use same graphic for HOMM and still is bad .
  Game has nothing new in 
 it even missing pirates and some other classes from HOMM 4.
  Hero in game are very weak when you play 2-3 hour mission (can kill only 1-5 creatures of highest 
 rank in castles)
  combat seqence is the same.
  Missions in campaign are boring , graphic not that good to be demanding like that but can be played 
 on gf3 with lowest details
  on 6600gt still cant play with full details
  Story in game dont keep the fingers on this game,
  I dont like what they did with this game sry.
 
  it's waste of time
  learning curve who ;played last parts is 0min
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdash
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  HOMM5 is for beginner or strategy-hater (why play TBS if you hate strategy?) . Good at music and 
 graphic but... gameplay is bad.
  
  It lack 'core' of TBS gameplay. HOMM3 and HOMM4 are better. Even more-than-10-years-old Master 
 of magic is better in gameplay.
  
  'good TBS game' = game that enhance player's 'creativity' through the game's 'variability'. Game's 
 speed, graphic, cut-scene and sound are just options. Intellectual is the core of TBS gameplay.
 
  
  HOMM5 'variability' is less than HOMM3 and HOMM4. There are less faction, less spell, less hero 
 action (compared to HOMM4) ,less or just equal types of unit and less information text.
  
  You should improve graphic ,sound and interface in next TBS game, but not decrease it's 'variability'. 
 
  
  I am TBS fanatic, as I play many TBS games since Civilization I. Compared to other fantasy TBS 
 series, HOMM5 low 'variability' disappoint my expectation. I have no connection with any game companys. 
 All is my own opinion.
  
  To be clear, HOMM5 has 6 factions ;each has 7 types of base units (upgraded won't count as most 
 have the same role in strategic combat) with 3 same war machine. 6*7+3 = 45 types (87 if include 
 upgraded unit) (not include hero and summon) . Hero unit have only 2 commands ;attack and cast spell 
 or use ability (I think spell and ability are not much different) . most skill are passive and mostly 
 don't change gameplay. Spell effect is beautiful but has little impact on gameplay compared to 
 the next 2 game.
  
  Master of magic {MOM} (more-than-10-year) has 12 city types; each has 7-8 types of units.  12*7 
 =  84 types (not include hero and summon) . Hero is not that vary but some have more than 2 commands 
 (strike or shoot or cast spell) . This game is legendary fantasy TBS, many said that.
  
  Age of wonder: shadow magic {AOW: SM} (2-3 years old, score 8.8 from gamespot) look a lot like MOM. 
 It has 15 races; each has 9 types of units ;plus 3 types of healer ;plus 3 type of war machine (some 
 faction is more vary) . 9*15 + 3 +3 = 141 types (not include hero and summon) . Hero is very special 
 as he can do every commands the other units can if he learn that ability or has exact item. Spell 
 has a lot effect on gameplay as you can enhance unit to fly, destroy obstructed mountain or dispel 
 enemy global enhancement. This series is underrated and not well known, only TBS hardcore know 
 about its best fantasy TBS 'variability'.
  
  Now about HOMM5 low 'creativity', even old fantasy TBS game like MOM, a flying unit can fly in 
 strategic map so do swiming and climbing. That's why I want to ask the developer some questions.
 
  
  Why doesn't Haven hero ride on his royal griffin and fly to attack enemy castle out-of-the-designed-path? 
 
  
  Demon can fly with their wings so why doesn't he fly across the mountain out-of-the-designed-path? 
 
  
  Ranger has good mobility but why doesn't he whack through the forest or climb mountain out-of-the-designed-path?
 
  
  All normal units have max of 3 command ablities. NO MORE. just move and attack (or shoot) and use 
 its single ability (spell, heal ,summon etc.) . why don't they make unit that has more commands (ex: 
 move, strike, shoot, revive, dispel and can cast all known life magic mana 20/20) . Most units have 
 only 2 basic commands (move&strike) with passive skill that mostly don't make player to be more 
 'creative'. (skill that is 'creative' is like 'no retaliate' ;I think)
  
  Fixed designed pathway lessen player's 'creativity'. Beautiful command interface but less available 
 command button has limit player's 'creativity'. Beautiful 3D map but no movement-changing methods 
 has dull player's 'creativity'. Replay is sure boring.
  
  Conclusion: HOMM5 is a good game, but only for the TBS beginner. If you play TBS for the first or 
 second time, HOMM5 is your choice. But if you are keen strategic-lover TBS fan; especially fantasy 
 TBS, HOMM5 is so boring. {Single player mode only}
  
  PS. The first time I play this game, I get so bored in 5 hours and have to change game. I remember 
 the first time I play Master of magic, HOMM3, HOMM4 and AOW: SM that I play them till dawn without 
 realize that it's morning. My expectation is high though.
  
  Sorry, If my comment upset any FAN of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cljw84
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't too sure abt the game at first, since the last one was awhile back for the last 1, but 
 I was pleasantly surprised when I started playing the game. The gameplay's just like the old heroes, 
 but this one boasts much better graphics and more things have been added. The gameplay is still 
 the same. However, if you're a newbie at this game, it shouldn't take you too long to learn the 
 basics of the game. Overall, the new developers have done justice to the old game, as not much 
 has been changed, and that they have managed to keep the game playable and addictive. This game 
 was definitely worth the wait, and it's a must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimb
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I was not sure what I would think about this one having not played a Heroes game in a long time. 
 However, while setting up a multi-player game, I was starting to feel really good about the purchase.
 
  
  I think one of the most interesting aspects of the game is the ghost mode that allows you to stay 
 active even when it is not your turn. This was a great way to kill some of that waiting time you 
 have between turns and I'm hoping it's a step that future turn-based games will keep in mind allowing 
 for less down time.
  
  I have not experienced the "long" load times others have been experiencing, but I have a "high-end" 
 machine that may be a factor. With that said, I do not have any complaints about this game, despite 
 looking for things to complain about. There will be aspects of the game that others do not like, 
 but overall it's a game that has me hooked at the moment and fills a void for me in the "new and 
 good lan games to play with friends/family" category.
  
  Get it, enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmagematt
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The basic Gameplay is what you would expect from a Heroes game. Turn based gameplay, where you 
 send your hero out exploring, build up your city, and fight battles. The battles are turn based, 
 and now feature a grid of squares, as opposed to Heroes IV's hexagons.
  
  You hire creatures from your town, once you have built the appropriate building. There are 7 tiers 
 of creatures, and each can be upgraded after the construction of an expansion to the original creature 
 dwelling of that tier, which is usually more expensive than the original. Upgrading creatures adds 
 strategic choices to the game, but in general, it seems like it isn't worth it until very late 
 in the game. The upgraded dwellings are very expensive, and often the upgraded creature is only 
 a marginal improvement. I was especially disappanointed with some of the tier 7 upgrades. They 
 usually are granted noticable upgrades, and some nifty abilities, but if I'm going to shell out 
 20000 to 30000 of my kingdom's gold for an upgraded tier 7 dwelling, I'd like to see a bit more 
 difference in the power of the creatures.
  
  Spells work like you would expect, and the power of lower level spells has been toned down, which 
 is probably a good thing. In Heroes IV, even someone with only level 2 or 3 magic could wreak alot 
 of havoc, especially if it was order magic. There are now 4 schools of magic, like in Heroes III. 
 However, certain schools of magic are no longer connected to certain towns, like in IV. Any hero 
 can learn any level 1 or 2 spell, but must acquire the appropriate magic skill before learning 
 any higher level spells.
  
  Skills were changed the most of anything. Special abilities now abound among creatures, and Heroes 
 have more skill options than ever. Explanations as to what creature abilities do, or as to what 
 skills are required for what other skills, are as rare as the skills themselves are plentiful. 
 If you've played a Heroes game before, you should be able to figure out many of the creature abilities, 
 however, you may want to look for an internet guide for the Hero skill trees.
  
  What was most disappointing for me was that while the game changed alot from Heroes IV, most of 
 the changes were merely changes back to the way things were in Heroes III, and the biggest inovation, 
 the new skill tree, is marred by a lack of explanation as to how it works. One welcome change, 
 though, was the initiative bar and effects that change turn orders in battle.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are beautiful, and whoever created the models for the cities did an 
 amazing job. With a few minor exceptions, I like most of the creature models better than their 
 Heroes II counterparts too. The freely rotating map is another welcome change. Overall, I'm very 
 pleased with the graphics.
  
  Sound
  
  The Heroes games have always featured wonderful music, and V is no exceptions. Each town features 
 an approprate theme, and battles have their own frenzied songs, as well as satisfying sound effects. 
 My current favorite has to be the music of the Academy, but all the music is good.
  
  Value
  
  Obviously a game like this has alot of replay value. It'll take alot of playing to 
 figure out how to get each hero's ultimate skill too. Hotseat multiplayers allows for games with 
 visiting friends, however, for the more competitive type, internet games are also available. You 
 can also start each map in any of the starting positions, ensuring that each map can provide varied 
 experiences. The reason I only gave an 8 in this catagory is the lack of a map editor/creator, 
 which was present with Heroes III and IV. I really hope that Nival eventually provides players 
 with one, or if not, a number of additional quality maps available for free downloading. Hey, we 
 payed for the game, we should get the goods.
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  The game is fun, but somehow it just doesn't seem as innovative as I had hoped. It also seems almost 
 incomplete. The conspicuous lack of a map editor and any explanations of skill trees or abilities, 
 coupled with the useless guidebook are rather annoying. If you haven't played Heroes III or IV, 
 I recommend you look for a quality internet resource for this game, or you will be rather lost. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrkagman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  If the only reason Game spot took off points was because of load times and bugs.... then I havent 
 seen the bugs and my load time is less than 10-15 seconds on every map with not a terrebly impressive 
 computer. Awsome game... does the series justice.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing!! I fell in love with the game after 10 minutes of playing it. This is my 
 first HOMM game and I wish I played the rest. I gave this a chance on a whim and was pleasantly 
 surprised! It sorta reminds me of final fantasy tactics but with might and magic references and 
 world, which I love having played M and M 3, 4, and 5 religously in high school back in the early 
 90's. I found the graphics stunning, but not phenominal (THey were no Oblivion!) because of lacking 
 mouth movements during in engine cutscenes. But plenty of shader effects and great creature/ environment 
 animation make it come alive. The spells effects are phenominal!! The sound is just as good... no.. It's 
 spot on in all the right places. And the intrumental sondtrack is great as well. The gameplay is 
 where this game shines though. This is the game I wished warcraft 3 was, being turn based and all 
 rocks! Some rts games enemy ai overwhelms you feal fast, and I like to take my time and make tactical 
 decisions. Homm5 doesn't disapoint! From hero upgrades to units and spells, not to mention the 
 town building. There is so much depth to tis game its incredible. On par with the civilization 
 series in quality and quanity! 6 factions, all varried with no repitious creatures. Tons of units 
 all differnt fo each faction, differnt styles and specializations for each faction. The campaing 
 is great, I have not finished it yey (no where close) The quick battle scenarios are cool but not 
 enough of them only 5 for single player, hopefully more will come out! I can't comment on Multiplayer 
 as none of my friends play pc games so look elsewhere on that, although I hear there is 5 new game 
 modes including something called ghost which lets you take control of things on an a ethreal type 
 plane while your opponent plays his turn. Pretty cool I should check it out sometime. 
  
  This game made me interested in the series as a whole and seeing how everyone seems to love homm3 
 I bought the complete edition, and started playing that too! IT's great as well! The gameplay is 
 all there as well as the options, the 2d art work is still fresh even though that game is from 
 1999, a 7 year old game attracting my attention is amazing! The series and Homm 3 and 5 are amazing 
 games and I reccomend anyone try out homm5, and if you love that like I do try homm3 if you've 
 never played it befrore! AS for the other Homm games, well I'm definalty curious, but havetoo much 
 to do now to try homm4 and 1 and 2 look to old with the dos 320x200 display.. eww! Too old-school 
 for my taste now adays. All in all I highly recommend Homm5, you won't regret it. And my system 
 is a athlon64 3000+ with 1gig ram, geforce 6800nu unlocked, SBlive, and my system rocks the game 
 so If you have hardware from the last 2 years you shouldn't have problems! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggerbob2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  i wated for this game sence the time it was announced. when i first played it after i spent good 
 money for it i was a little up set with the fact that they did not include a might team or better 
 known as the stronghold. the magic system took a little time to get used to sence i spent so much 
 time on heroes 4. the skills system was not what i expected and threw me off for the better. i 
 ended up likeing the skills system more than i expected i would. the combat system worked out amazingly 
 well. with some creatures moving faster and getting more turnes than others. also i liked the creature 
 specials. some creatures had some better than other but thats to be expected. one thing that i 
 did not like was the fact that some creatures were so bad that they were almost a wast to buy them. 
 
  
  over all this game is exelent with a few bugs that i am sure will be worked out with some patches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZillaMonster
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 31, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Very similar to the other HoMM games, with all of the same basic mechanics, and a few new tweaks. 
 The graphics are good - until you go underground, where its a little annoying trying to figure 
 out where you're going and how to get there. From a playability standpoint, its a good, solid, 
 playable game (a little buggy - but it doesn't impact play) and takes about the same length of 
 time to play as the previous games - you can spend 4-10 hours playing through a single scenario. 
 If you liked the others, and want more of the same - its a good game.
  
  A sample of the bugginess: horrid broken-english explanations for some things (someone wasn't paying 
 much attention to the outsourcing) , some inaccessable areas on basic scenario maps (presumably 
 unintentional) , "motion lock" - where you don't actually see the animation on enemy heroes moving 
 around the board. It also seems a little short on scenarios, compared to predecessors. While this 
 stuff doesn't change gameplay - it decidedly gives you the impression that it wasn't quite ready 
 for release. Hopefully patches and updates will take care of this and extend the playability.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudvicious
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Nival has made a good effort for their first try at the HOMM series. They have captured the essence 
 of the series. The have the game mechanics down, the AI is better than what I remember from the 
 past HOMM. The units and the heroes are unique and look beautiful as befit the series.
  Now here is what I hope Nival learn from their first effort. Do something about the rapid drop 
 off in the frame rate when you zoom out. Larger map sizes. Better description of unit special abilities. 
 Just more depth in general. An editor. Longer campaigns. The current campaign mode is interesting 
 but weak. For starters there is no background to the story. It simply starts off without preamble 
 leaving you wondering who any of the characters are. The scripting is really weak. Just as you 
 get accustomed to using a particular hero and the units, campaign over.
  For a first effort Nival has done a good job, and am excited about the future of the franchise. 
 For having paid CAD 59.99 + Taxes, I definitely did not get my money's worth. Not polished enough 
 for that price. Hope they make up for the lacking game play by releasing a really great expansion 
 pack for cheap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmh1924
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 30, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Finially, the new Heroes of Might & Magic game. The game is just fun. If you have played any of 
 the other Heroes of Might & Magic Games then you can surely play this one. The Graphics are good, 
 but not Great. the characters have faces but when there is dialogue they don't speak the words 
 you hear a voice and have printed text. Some of the scenes are very boxy looking. The heroes when 
 in combat cannot take damage, they only "die" when their army is defeated. Game play is very straight 
 forward. Another thing that should have been done is when you play the campaign mode, you should 
 be allowed to choose when side you want to play and be allowed to play that side until the completion 
 of the game, instead what you get is you start with one side, play 5 mini campaigns and then get 
 switched to the other side an take up where you just left off..... this of course is not what i 
 expected in the fifth game of a series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakupacal
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 30, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Gorgeous to look at but ultimately a very, very shallow gameplay experience.
  
  Fans of HOMM III will probably dig the game since it is mostly a rehashed version of that game 
 with a huge graphic upgrade. But anybody spoiled by fantasy games with more options and more depth 
 (like anyone who played Age of Wonders: Shadow Magic) will likely be disappointed once the flash 
 wears off.
  
  Strikes against HOMMV:
  
  No map editor/random map generator.
  Utterly static map with no wandering armies.
  Numerous proofing errors that are entirely inexplicable.
 
  Repetive sound effects.
  Limited scenario options (no adjusting opponent difficulties individually or editing AI relations 
 or handicapping resources, etc. etc. etc.)
  A cartoon world that lacks even the vaguest sense of believability.
  
  Feh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaidicenter
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 30, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  why would a company make such a great game that has been created with a supreme strategy engine 
 and a totally outstanding 3d/2d graphic looks, and make the worse story line/story mode? 
  from the Intro it self it is clear that there where some untalented writers still stuck to cli'shies... 
 
  dialogs in the story mode are so plain and not convincing that you just have to press the "SKIP"...
 
  they didn't even made mouth movment for the main characters no arm movement no nothing... it is 
 almost funny to hear the speech in the background and look at a close up of a hero just standing 
 looking at the screen... and when an emotion is needed it runs the "Hero wins" animation sequence... 
 
  this could have been an amazing game! one of the biggest of 2006 but its NOT! 
  and its the writters and the company that released story mode the way it was released that are 
 to blame!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximuswielgus
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 30, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  Confrontation with other players in 3rd turn on bigest map it`s miss understanding. Hope that some 
 patch will change that becouse for right now this makes game boring and for me third part in WOG 
 is better. Im very disapointed becouse of this that takes very much from very good sequel. I thik 
 that heroes should expand : biger maps, more buildings, more creatures, skills etc. but this what 
 i see cuting one castle (stronghold) and few other thigs. My opinion Nival done great work but 
 they have to work hard on pathes. Until that time WOG rules and it`s stays that way until Heroes 
 V gets pathes that changes size of maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosE_D
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  this game is great! Unlike the other episodes. wellthe guys from ubisoft really did it! as gamespot 
 says: the most complete strategy game! they change it radically... everything seems new.... graphics, 
 movement... well no game at this present time could beat it... strategy I mean!
  Overall, Id say that Heroes of Might and Magic V is a credit to the series, a huge improvement 
 on the previous title and a game you should definitely try if you like strategy games. In fact, 
 its probably worth a try even if you DONT like strategy gamesand something else they say it 
 has over 200 skills, 170 creatures abilities and 40 spells to build up your heroes and their armies..... cool 
 ha?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  While having been a huge HOMM fan for the past 7+ years, I can truly say that there are a lot of 
 great things to admire and look forward to in this newly raved-about addition to the series. The 
 campaigns are stellar and though I haven't had much time to truly emphasize the single player characteristics, 
 I can't help but wish there was just more of it. 
  
  The game is quite addictive but the addiction that entails isn't quite satiated due to little intangibles 
 that I can't help feel that are missing. It's difficult to exactly measure what's missing, to be 
 honest, but I think that Ubisoft could have, perhaps, spent a little more time on it instead of 
 rushing it out. As happy as I am to finally play the game, I just feel it could have been loads 
 better. 
  
  The bugs in the game are quite noticable but I rarely pay attention to these things unless they 
 really hamper the gameplay and impede the enjoyment. 
  
  Despite some certain, obvious impairments, the game, and the series as a whole, has been traditionally 
 renowned for its soundtrack, and here, it does not dissapoint. I still think heroes 4 had the most 
 immersive and breathtaking soundtrack, but over here, it's almost as good. 
  
  Overall, I think the game definitely deserves to be touted and hyped, but rest assured, it is definitely 
 not the best in the series; however, fans of the series will enjoy it, never the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malmern
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  HOMMV is a great game indeed, but lacks map editor and a random map generator (This will be supplied 
 in the first patch, if we're to believe the developers!) And I think the heroes have to few slots 
 for artifacts! (You don't have any slots for artifacts that don't match a specific category, i. e. 
 four leaf clover and golden horseshoe, four leaf clover goes into the shield slot, which means 
 you can't equip a shield and the four leaf and a shield at the same time! The horseshoe goes into 
 another place as well, i don't remember what place right now.)
  All in all, if you enjoyed the previous HOMM titles, you'll love HOMMV! Even if you haven't played 
 any of the previous HOMM titles, you should still try HOMMV! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  * PRO: Beautiful 3D animated graphics
  
  * PRO: Combat system is the same as in HOMM1-3. Which means, the hero doesn't directly participate 
 in combat anymore, except for casting spells.
  
  * PRO: New online features. Duel mode for example, if you don't have five some hours on your hands 
 to play a full game.
  
  * PRO: Can be played more intuitively, especially in combat. As a result multiplayer games run 
 a bit faster now than they did in previous games.
  
  * CON: No transparency function. You are likely to miss something hidden behind a bush if you don't 
 rotate the map constantly.
  
  * CON: The city construction screen is pretty crude. It wouldn't have been much effort to come 
 up with something better here.
  
  * CON: While you can rotate the map in any way you want you can barely change the viewing angle. 
 You can neither switch to bird perspective, now can you look into your hero's eyes. That's disappointing 
 because the cutscenes show what the engine is capable of doing.
  
  * CON: Some functions (like splitting armies) are only accessible via hotkeys. That's no biggie 
 since the retail game comes with a manual documenting these features but still.
  
  Summed up this is the next true Heroes game after the disappointing HOMM4. Its magic will immediately 
 capture you. The cons are minor and will hopefully be dealt with in future patches.
  
  Oh and by the way: HOMM5 does not get shipped with the highly controversial Starforce anymore as 
 planned originally. Starforce is a copy protection system capable of causing a lot of major malfunctions 
 up to hardware damage on your system. Instead the game ships with a different not that rabid protection 
 system.
  
  I'm only mentioning this because I know there is a boycott campaign against Starforce running and 
 I know HOMM5 was originally blacklisted because using the system was planned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnjaha99
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Nival had big shoes to follow continuing the greatness of this series and making us forget about 
 the lackluster Heroes 4. For the most part, they succeeded. They stuck close to the H3 formula 
 (which you cant blame them) but also introduced a brand new 3d engine, hero combat abilities, and 
 ghost mode. The in game cinema's are not great but are better than a page of text which is what 
 Heroes 4 did. Music is on par with Heroes 3, but still inferior to Heroes 2. Sound effects and 
 voice acting are just average, A map editor is sorely lacking, and is really necessary to improve 
 the longevity since MP in a turn based game is never popular. This needs to be addressed as well 
 as AI and game balancing issues but a defenite step in the right direction for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproddy
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The tried and true formula for the game play is still a home run. It mainly consists of you, a 
 hero, traveling around on the back of an animal. You collect resources and artifacts and capture 
 different structures. The graphics are a step up from the strange 2D/3D mix of Heroes IV. The graphics 
 are full 3D and look very good. However the frame rate can slow up occasionally on the lower end 
 PCs. The most noticeable times are when you are navigating through the different menus at your 
 base. The game sounds good but will be easily forgotten. The story is cool if you enjoy fantasy, 
 but otherwise the campaign is just another bunch of levels to beat. However the most fun of the 
 game can be found by playing the scenarios. The difficulty is adjustable and it what you would 
 expect. The collector's edition is probably the best value providing you with Heroes III and IV 
 updated for XP for only $10 dollars more. This combination can lead to an endless supply of gaming 
 goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 28, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  First off I'd like to say that I have played All Heroes games. All six of them to date. Starting 
 with Kings Bounty (HoMM's predecessor) and all the way up to HoMM V.
  
  I'll break the score up so you can more easily understand this review.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  
 
  It's not bad. I was expecting worse actually. But this is where the positive ends. Not Bad?!? 
 Since when has it been ok for a game to just be "OK"? And a HoMM game non-the-less.
  Every release of the series has had one thing in common: great, addictive gameplay. I remember 
 instances from each and every one of the previous titles where I found myself looking at the morning 
 paper to see what Day it was. That's how addictive and time-consuming those games were.
  
  But not this one. I'm literally forcing myself to play it, because I'm hoping for the charm to 
 kick in. I'm taking breaks, not because I need them, but because I want them. Something is lacking!
 
  
  The game feels a bit unfinished, which is a problem with many games, but at-least here there is 
 hope for future patches, that will fix and finish the game. 
  But still, sacrifice some money and time, and bring us a finished product and use the patches to 
 freshen it. Don't count on the patches to help you finish the game when everyone has already gotten 
 a first look and play. 
  
  That will decide whether or not they'll buy it - get it right the first time!
  
  Now... What 
 I think is wrong:
  
  The story is bad. 
  
  Not a complete disaster, but seriously - what the hell? 
  
  In HoMM III you had many beautiful, 
 short animated clips, that carried the story very well. And everything else was put into well written 
 text, which you could read and imagine in your head. Perfect!
  In HoMM IV you had nothing but text - a bit tiresome to read, but offered an even more detailed 
 and beautiful storyline if you read it all.
  Here, we have none of that. Badly designed cutscenes, bad animation and horrible voiceacting. Can't 
 figure this out. 
  Surely there a people out there that have a better imagination and writing skills then the guy 
 who conjured up this game's story.
  
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  Probably the highlight of the game. They are not great, but as they did create it from scratch, 
 it's once again, not bad. Quite good actually if you have the rig to back it up.
  Which is a problem - I didn't lower the score because I have a powerful PC, but many strategy fans 
 aren't going to be very happy to hear that a "Turn-Based" game needs a rig as powerful as the one 
 you run Oblivion with.
  I'll be gentle as 2D wasn't great looking at first either, but by HoMM III it was looking gorgeous. 
 Let's hope future installments will improve this.
  
  Just wish they'd done better cutscenes and gave the game a few more months to get done - all those 
 graphics really took a lot of time, which could have been put to better use.
  
  Sound - 6
  
  Not good, not bad. You can live with it, but it's not memorable. It's not what 
 I was expecting. HoMM has always had beautiful music. I remember just sitting and listening to 
 the music from the towns. Especially towns like Necropolis from Homm II, III and III-s music in 
 Rampart town.
  
  I miss all that. Though I must say, some tunes are rather good. But a small deduction is that annoying 
 change in music as you travel the map and visit towns. The music jumps too often. They should really 
 have blended it better somehow.
  
  Value - 6
  
  I haven't played the game long enough to really give an accurate score, but I think this is it. 
 
  Even with new patches bringing in all new maps, and bugs getting fixed - I don't really see myself 
 playing through all the campaigns again and trying new strats on the same maps.
  Probably ain't going to happen.
  
  So, is it worth the money? Well - only if you're a serious 
 heroes fan or a newcomer and whether or not Ubi-soft honours their commitment and keeps improving 
 the game until a next release.
  
  Tilt - 7
  
  This game does bring mixed reactions. So I'm just going to stick this game with a better then average 
 rating and leave it at that.
  
  
  Some more thoughts:
  
  Huge issue for me is - the Interface. Look ad HoMM III, everything is for you to see. So many buttons 
 you'll find everything you need, yet it's all compressed. 
  You take one look at the screen and you know exactly where you are, what troops you have, what 
 day it is, what week, month. The mini-map shows all you need to know and all the additional buttons 
 will tell you all that you don't need, but would like to know.
  
  In this game, problems arise. First off, where are my troops? Do I really have to click on my hero 
 and select a tab to just see my troops, this doubles for hero screen aswell. If I want to see stats 
 I have to click several times through different tabs. Why is this?
  It would take but a small portion of the screen to show the hero, basic stats, and all the troops. 
 Weird.
  
  Also, everything seems too big somehow. When I put HoMM IV into high resolution, everything became 
 so small and detailed I could see everything on the screen at once. And it looked beautiful.
  Here we have five different tabs for looking at our hero alone. Jesus... make that stuff more compact 
 will you... I'd like to immerse mysef in the information, I hate clicking a dozen buttons every 
 time I want to see something that should have been on the screen in the first place.
  
  I could go on and on. But this review is getting out of hand. So I'm just going to say this for 
 everyone reading this, who hasn't yet bought the game:
  
  If you are new to the series, have a powerful PC and a like for newer graphics and such - buy it! 
 
  I'm fairly confident you won't regret this.
  
  If you are a fan of the series (like me) and you are hoping for the best. Go buy it!
  I'm sure 
 it's not what you hoped for, but I think you'll like it enough to justify the cost. Besides, now 
 you can keep on saying that you've played all the titles ;)
  
  If you are a casual HoMM player - Don't buy it.
  A fan of the series will ignore shortcomings 
 and enjoy something new while still something old and memorable. 
  A newcomer will find it a cool way to get to know the series and won't have anything to be angry 
 about - he sees the series for the first time!
  A casual player will see something he has already seemed, he will see bugs and unfinished details, 
 poorly done elements and other problems. He will like it the least!
  
  People, please undestand - it's somewhat acceptable for completely new games to be a bit lacking 
 in some departments. But for a fifth installment, you can't have these kinds of problems and expect 
 everyone to live with them.
  A game can be great at heart but it will never be as great as it could have been if you ignore 
 the small things. As a fan I can ignore a bug in the game, but why should I? Treat the fans to 
 a great and polished product, and they'll make you famous and successful. It's as simple as that.
 
  
  A final though. What's up with all the spelling errors and missing text? Someone forgot to use 
 spellcheck and save file? Please....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: emmm78
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  So I must say I`m one of the people that think HMM3 was probably the greatest game ever and after 
 playing this fifth instalment i still belive it reigns supreme.
  Don`t get me wrong : the graphics in HMM5 tops it all... it`s just astounding, the music and sounds 
 make you blend in what the spirit of this game is all about: Tolkien-like fantasy, but besides 
 an improvement of skills assignement i really don`t have anything else to add for a positive review.
 
  While the gameplay is great the story is just awfull. We no longer have the intricate scenarios 
 from the previous games, but some Grimm brothers story lingering for 6 chapters. (I`m currently 
 playing the 6th... maybe i will have a big surprise ... other than "the hero saves the princess", 
 who in case you don`t know is pregnant with the antichrist or something...) .
  There are many other issues that reviewers wrote about and i will also point out the most annoying 
 : the lack of random maps or some map editing tools... on top of this the mp mode barely has a 
 handfull of maps...
  bugged items/artifacts, the in-battle action bar which gets overwhelmed by the action itself... 
 and ... only 6 races.
  In all it`s a great relief that a series i thought it`s dead and buried with HMM4 will continue 
 and i believe at least in terms of graphics that HMM5 is a great improvement and has great potencial. 
 Unfortunatelly we must wait for a couple of patches and hopefully an expansion pack filled up with 
 maps, artifacts, more races and creatures... and for godsake a good story !
  PS: I`m giving it a high score `cause i`m a HMM fanboy :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redjack443
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: They took the best from HOMM3 and HOMM4 and put it together. It works very good. The 
 only complaints I have are the fact that the map-editor is missing and that sometimes it's hard 
 to click on the right square (in the adventure map) . I'm hearing a lot about bugs in the game, 
 but I've yet to encounter any game-stopping ones.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look very good. They're not the graphics that games like Age of Empires 
 3 or Half-life 2 have, but they're spectacular nonetheless. The Town Screen look absolutely amazing.
 
  
  Sound: The sound was good, but sometimes it isn't synced correctly with the animation, especially 
 in battles. The music started to get on my nerves too, after a while.
  
  Value: There is a lot of replay value already, which will increase when the map-editor is released 
 (hopefully in the upcoming patch) . I will adjust my review score when it does.
  
  Overall: I am a hardcore HOMM fan since part 2, and I think this is the best part in the series. 
 It takes the gameplay from HOMM2 and HOMM3, the new features from HOMM4 and adds very much by itself. 
 If you like turn-based strategy games, this is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantares83
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Why HOMM5 is a good buy?
  
  1) Great graphics - a town that is fully build is just amazing.... the creatures are an improvement... 
 and they look really cute too
  
  2) Nice music - gets repetitive but the first you heard it, it's pretty amazing... the sound effects 
 are realistic too!!
  
  3) Great gameplay - there are six fractions and each fraction is unique and different, making this 
 game very diverse and engaging.. besides, the new skill system just ensures that you get a different 
 hero everytime, even when playing the same fraction... 
  
  4) fans' favourite - if you are a fan of HOMM, get this, don't ever think how bad HOMM4 is because 
 this is nothing like HOMM4...
  
  5) value for money - you can play it over and over again... all different towns and different skills... 
 though there are only 10 maps but i think it's enough to last until the patch comes...
  
  Enough said! I would urge anyone who is looking gor a good game to buy this and enjoy it... it's 
 really not so bad.... go get it!!! and hopefully, with the profits, they are able to make a better 
 expansion and we will all benefit from it!!! 
  
  GO GET IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laurana88
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 27, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Game has a lot of features from older heroes games. Some were not the strongest suit. Have to go 
 through upgrades of creatures here and visit windwills every time for resources. Other than that 
 game is still as addictive as ever. Runs sluggish on laptop. The new creatures and graphics are 
 fine but battle screen does not allow zoom in w/o cutting off one side of the field. Would still 
 highly recommend it to heroes fans and the learning curve is short for anyone who played HOMM I-IV. 
 The whole first campaign is a tutorial which may be frustrating to some but helpful to others who 
 need to brush up and haven't played in awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 28, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to get all technical and historical. This is the first game in the series I have 
 played and it is simply fun and addictive. On that alone I recommend it. You can read the review 
 to get a feel for what is in the game, all I need to tell you is that it is entertaining. As for 
 these people claiming it is bug ridden and runs poorly, I have not seen that at all so take it 
 for what it's worth. The trend lately seems to be people blaming the game for what they lack in 
 a PC. Go out and get it, worse case scenario you auction it off if you don't like it. Simply a 
 fun game.
  
  EDIT:
  Long loading times? What kind of PC are you using Gamespot? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michalli27
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  THE LEARNING CURVE IS SHORT AND THE DIFFICULTY IS JUST RIGHT- BUT ONLY FOR THOSE WHO ARE VERY MUCH 
 FAMILIAR WITH THIS SERIES. (OTHERWISE IT'S A BIT MORE DIFFICULT IN THE START UNTILL THE ADJUSTMENT) .
 
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  BECAUSE OF THE BASIC FACT THAT THE GAME HAS A SMALL BUG OF STOPPING SHORTLY FROM TIME TO TIME FOR 
 A COUPLE OF MINUTES I WAS A LITTLE UPSET BUT IN THE OVERALL -
  I LIKED THIS WAY OF PLAYING VERY MUCH AND I PLAYED THIS GAME VERY WELL BECAUSE I WAS A HIGHLY ADDICTED 
 FAN OF THE GAME'S PREVIUOS SERIES (HEROES OF MIGHT&..4) . THUS IT'S A VERY GOOD PLAY.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  THE GAME HAS A WONDERFUL GRAPHICS. IT IS VERY DETAILED & PROOVES ITSELF TO BE -AS 
 IT IS -A 3-D GAME.
  
  SOUND-
  THE SOUND IS VERY MONOTONIOUS. IT COULD BE MORE EXCITING AS THE HOMAM4.
  
  VALUE- 
  THIS 
 GAME IS MISSING A VERY IMPORTANT FACTOR WHICH IS THE STORY -TELLING! (THERE IS ALMOST NO STORY)
 
  AND THIS FACT MAKES THE GAME TO HAVE NO ENTHUSIASM THAT SOPPOSED TO BE HERE. THE RESULT FOR INSTANCE 
 IS THAT IT'S NOT DRAMATIC AT ALL AS WAS IN THE PREVIUOS ONE.
  
  TILT-
  THE GAME IS NEW BUT BASICALLY REPEATS ITSELF AND HAS LESS TO OFFER THEN SUPPOSED TO BE- BUT ONLY 
 WHEN IT'S COMPARED TO THE PREVIOUS ONE (HOMAM4) .
  
  & IN OTHER WORDS- 
  ALTHOUGH THIS GAME HAS NO SPIRITUAL IMPACT ON THE PLAYER (BECAUSE OF THE LACK IN STORY-TELLING) 
 ,FOR THOSE WHO ADORED THE SERIES & WERE ITS BIGGEST FANS- YOU SHOULD BUY IT BECAUSE EVENTUALLY 
 YOU WILL KEEP PLAYING IT FOR HOURS AGAIN.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordkunta
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 27, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  
  I partually liked the combat system because it is extended, the fields are proportionally far larger 
 than in any Heroes game to date, which allows further strategic thinking. Yet there is an element 
 that almost drives me nuts. When in combat mode there is a window showing the order of unit action, 
 literally killing the feel of randomization, and killing the difficulty level in the game as well.
 
  
  Graphics: 6
  
  Warcraft 3 looks better than this does. Although the world itself is rich with content, it just 
 doesn't cut it to the date. Characters are (by vision) mute, which is quite frustrating, considering 
 modern graphics technology. The animations were adequate and nothing more.
  
  Sound: 5
  
  If there was something I really loved in the previus Heroes installments it was the music, 
 especialy the music from heroes 4, the orchestratic and wonderful symphonies have been reduced 
 to something which sounds like it comes from my old 6-bit gameboy. This includes all sounds as well.
 
  
  Value: 1
  
  I like to read, that was accually what made me fall in love with Heroes 4, reading those wonderfull 
 stories, shaping circumstances and images with ones own imagination. The Heroes 4 campaign is unsurpased, 
 when it comes to storyline. As you get to take part in all characters different perspectives of 
 war and life.
  
  That is why I think so many people do not like the 4th installment of Heroes, they simply don't 
 like reading and therefore don't get the full apriciation of the storyline.
  
  (Making exceptions for HoMM4 expansions, they sucked ding dong)
  
  As for HoMM 5:
  
  There 
 is nothing to value, really, there ain't. Everything worth valueing has been strapped from the 
 game.
  
  Tilt: 4
  
  It's nothing that will take your breath away or make your blood boil, thats for sure. But then 
 again it has never been a strenght in any heroes installment so I'll grade the tilt compared to 
 previous installments instead of other game genres.
  
  Overall judgement: 
  
  You have to be a die hard heroes fan to appriciate this junk, the cool movies we're tempting (their 
 the reason I bought the game, a sucker for blizzard quality cinematics) , but as soon as you start 
 playing you realise there is very little or no content in the game at all.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey284
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  I've bought the collectors edition of this game, which doesn't include that much more, but it only 
 cost me like 5 euro's more, so I thought: Well, what the hell, why not? I don't really know why 
 this game is buggy or anything like that, it starts and plays fine on my computer. I think the 
 skill and ability system is a cool new feature, as it really lets you plan strategies and customize 
 your heroes. All the unit's look really cool too, and in this game it actually matters a lot whether 
 or not you decide to upgrade them. I also think the towns look really great, you can see every 
 angle and position you want. When you get into a town, you see like a fly over of the town. The 
 town really grows when you upgrade and purchase new buildings. So, all in all, a great game, worth 
 the 50 bucks you pay to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrk10941
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I love H3 and so far I love H5. I've played the first campaign, and so far I haven't run into a 
 single glitch/bug, I think must people complaining about that sort of thing just have crappy computers. 
 If you like turn based strategy games this is one of the best ones. Limited edition is kind of 
 expensive though, for 2 old games and some sparkles behind your hero. I have to write a hundred 
 words for some reason so: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pkgilbert
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 28, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  So... they improved graphics, we all expected that. The music? Well... I find some of the tracks 
 to be quite irritating after hearing them over and over. The designers missed the need for "mood 
 music", not dramatic music with warbling opera women and bizarre squeaks and squeals included.
 
  
  But Heroes 5 falls short in its potential for future fun when compared to Heroes 3 and its expansions.
 
  
  Why? Only six factions, and NO random map generator.
  
  Also, don't expect any of the expansion packs to Heroes 3 or Heroes 4 in the Heroes 5 Limited Edition.... 
 what a purchase letdown.
  
  If you can find your old copy of Heroes 3 and its first expansion "Armageddon's Blade" in the back 
 of a drawer somewhere, install them instead and have fun... they work just fine with Windows XP 
 and DirectX 9.0c
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkerbell74638
Rating: 1
Date: May 26, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  this game was the worst. i wasn't even able to play it because my computer was sort of behind on 
 the video card. I got my computer in 2003 so it is not that old but yet you need a newer video 
 card which costs like 100 dollars. this game is bad. I don't know how it runs but i do know is 
 i am upset. I basically bought me a 50 dollar paper-weight. I am sending a warning in not to buy 
 this game unless you have a newer computer. You will not get a refund. If you can play this game 
 good for you and enjoy if not this review includes you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 2
Date: May 26, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is downright awful. They released it what seems like months early if not a year. The 
 campaign is unplayable because it bugs up and starts you over at the beginning, the game is hardly 
 playable because of constant crashes, and multiplayer is a total waste for the same reasons. It 
 was fun for the first 40 minutes till the crashes started. It's truly pathetic that computer game 
 companies release games unfinished like this. They just expect to put out a patch. This is the 
 wrong attitude. If you are going to make people pay for a game, it dang well better be finished. 
 I'm insulted by the release of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kailii
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 26, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Out of the box, HOMM V will make you feel at home assuming you played at least one of the previous 
 games in just another sequel.
  Its all there, from the resources and mines in the main map to the tactical options in battle and 
 the progress of your heroes.
  
  Even better, the translation to a 3D game did not hurt gameplay at all. While some previews stated 
 that you needed to pan and zoom around the map to locate hidden goodies, it's actually so easy 
 to get your bearings you'll be right at home within a couple of minutes.
  
  More about 3D, graphics and sound effects are nothing short but astounding. While the game engine 
 seems unoptimized with heavy stutter depending on camera viewpoint, there is nothing like lighting 
 up a battle in the darkness of a cavern by fireballing it up a little.
  
  More in depth, the skills your heroes will eventually gain gave been seperated into those skills 
 and abilities supporting them. For example you get the "basic defense" skill allowing you to get 
 the ability to shield your troops from another 10 or 20% of damage against enemy archers.
  Sounds a bit difficult without playing the game, but in my opinion it's a great improvement over 
 the previous games of HOMM.
  
  But here we got it. Comparing #5 of the franchise to previous games leaves a lot to be desired 
 i'm afraid.
  "Just another sequel" i named it before, and here it is why:
  
  - 5 Campaigns, 5 missions each. Add merely a handful of single player missions, subtract the first 
 campaign as a tutorial experience only.
  Way too short i would say, playing the end of campaign #4 just as we speak, took me about 20 hours.
 
  
  - Bugs. So you upgraded your town to produce Arch Devils with the ability of summoning Pit Lords. 
 Their main advantage against the highest enemy troops. But you can't make them to do so.
  Or you pick up an artifact and get only the name out of it, not was it actually does. As in previous 
 games, you'd know if it adds to your defence or whatever , but you just don't know if it's good 
 for your necromancy skills.
  
  All in all, HOMMV is well done. But this steak needs some spices to be tasteful, and only some 
 of them will come in form of needed patches.
  
  The rest will have to be delivered from the community regarding for example the lack of single 
 player missions - did i mention there was no random combat option?
  
  Time will tell. For me, i refuse to call a game a good one if the only thing that might make it 
 superior to others is the enthusiasm of the modding community.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugly_gee
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  i waited this game for a long time, reading news, previews and playing demos
  it's the best game i've ever played for the last 2 years, graphics are charming, you can feel the 
 differences between races, the campaigns are highly addictive and i could find only 2 cons: the 
 are too few single player maps and the level cap in campaigns is too low so i feel sometimes frustrated
 
  maybe there are people who don't like 3D style but the producers have done an excellent job
  to conclude, it's the only game for a long time that kept me in front of my PC till 3-4 a. m.
 
  it didn't crashed till and it's runnig perfect
  amd barton 2 GHz, 1024 DDR 333, fx 5700 ultra
  i didn't encounter any bug till now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechemo
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  I just got the Limited Edition HOMMV after months and months of waiting and playing the demo. I 
 am thoroughly inpressed with the direction that they are going with the series.
  Although graphics are not the end-all for a strategy boardgame, I admit that once I started playing 
 and fawning over the slendor of the 3D v 2D world, I feel that it does add a lot to the game play 
 and overall experience. The magic effects of the meteor showers could be trasposed into some WWII 
 games. The music and sounds are also wonderful to listen to and are very well done.
  The gameplay seems to be the same - which is not to say bad - as the rest of the series as a whole. 
 I like the way the Heroes themselves are used this time around and the initiative bar has been 
 more useful that I had originally thought it would be. The camera during the battles is difficult 
 to use though.
  Many reviews focus on a few glaring ommissions that I hope that Ubisoft finally pays attention 
 to and that I will put my stamp on.
  First, the documentation is near criminal. HOMM III and IV had such wonderful manuals and fold-out 
 creature and structure sheets that I sometimes go back and look at them for fun (sad, I know) . 
 They had descriptions of spells I would never use and practically each creatures maiden names. 
 HOMMV tells you nothing - nothing - about the creatures, their skills, the spells, effects. In 
 a game of checks and balances such as the HOMM-series, this is a glaring omission.
  Second, can we please get a random map generator back? That was and will always remain one of my 
 favorite features of the series that added unlimited replay value that kept me playing for years. 
 I still play Diablo II much for the same reason.
  Third, there is a lot of graphics slowdown, especially when rotating at far-away angles. Considering 
 my system plays Oblivion at near top graphic quality, this is pretty questionable.
  Other than these quibbles (although the documentation is going to haunt my gameplay experience 
 forever) , HOMMV is going to be a major drain on my waking hours to be sure. My wife is going to 
 be very sorry she got this for me over Memorial Day weekend when I am supposed to be staining the 
 deck. Some people never learn... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengteen
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  As usual, the critics have got this way wrong.
  
  One thing I have to say to Ubisoft. Bring this game to the PSP and I guarantee they will have a 
 hot seller. 
  
  I guess the people grousing will be those with low to medium end systems about glitches, choppy 
 whatever.
  
  If you have high end pc with high end graphics card, this game is not to be missed.
  
  The 
 very replayable campaigns just make this one of the top 5 PC games of 2006 so far. Great graphics, 
 loads and loads of monsters, demons especially the big baddie bosses and their magic just blows 
 me away. You have to try this. 
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zedit
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I usually don't like to comment on anything ,but i have played heroes 2,3,4 ( and all of their 
 add ons as well as Might and Magic 6,7,8,9) for a long time. After awaiting this game for 5 years, 
 i think i could have waited a few more months and received a COMPLETE game. The game is great, 
 there is no doubt about that, still it is very frustrating:
  -mouths of people who talk just won't budge.
  -when creatures walk on corpses, these suddenly 
 disappear.
  -Sadly, no shader effects.
  -The hero is a heroine and the angel is a girl.
  -Some weakly designed creatures:
  The Heroes 3 devil looks much better, the hydra has skulls 
 on it ( does a hydra have hands to put skulls on it, or did a simple peasant come and put these 
 skulls on the creature, just to make it scary??!!) , ok, a vampire that uses a sword? I recall vampires 
 as creatures capable of sucking blood with their teeth or at least they could attack with their 
 claws. A priest with a hammer or a mace? Moreover, a squire that looks like a crusader ,and wears 
 a plate armor with some gold on it, isn't a squire like a servant?
  
  These aren't really major problems, but they give you the feeling that this game is out before 
 its date : it misses the "final touch" still it doesn't miss the magic.
  If only they worked a little bit more on the game, it would have been just perfect, its good looking, 
 innovative and conservative. I would recommend it for Heroes fans and even for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  By the way this is an awesome game, my favorite races were (in heroes 3) the castle and the tower, 
 (heaven and academy) and surprisingly they remain the same in this fifth installment. The fact 
 that heroes 3 is PERFECT in all categories, made me to look at heroes 5 more carefully, and I think 
 that there are still many things missing from it: like a random map generator (firstly a map editor 
 :) ) , the barbarians and even the fortress, i loved them, more powerful artifacts and a better interface. 
 To be honest the biggest problem with Heroes 4 was that it doesn`t have random map generator !! 
 Hope Ubi will incorporate this later becouse i don`t like user made maps, and without it this game 
 never be as great as heroes 3 IS ! If it`s true that Ubi planning a trilogy, hope RMG will appear 
 someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterEmil
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  The game starts with a overwhelming movie that almost explains all of the game and the game is 
 basically about your are controlling the princess of the Griffin Empire and you have to defeat 
 the demon army and so on and it really dosent do anything new BIG or yes it is all new graphics 
 really good ones to be honest its still the same with Spells and Relics and all that... All remade 
 monsters and your town look BEAUTIFUL... but what i most love is the History really feels like 
 you are saving someone saving a whole Kingdom... and i thought it would be the same old game that 
 i dident like but if you havent played this game then get.... it just get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Well done Ubi Soft ! Excellent game best in the series so far. 
  Graphics have come along way since Kings Bounty the first Heros of might and magic.
  Towns look 
 awsome now and map graphics are detailed and eye catching.
  this is a game you will play for hours its very addictive:) 
  some new things i like about this 
 game is map generation for multiplay they bought back this option which was missing in the 4th 
 game.
  Looking like the game will be easy to Mod unlike the last 4 games i can already envision new skins 
 and Models to be added by some master modder.
  I haven't had a chance to play Hotseat yet as im currently working my way through the campain games, 
 which i might add have some interesting storyline, one thing heros always had is an interconnected 
 story with the RPG games Might & Magic. Now Rolands son is in charge and he is not as gumpy as his 
 Dad was.
  (add on to this) Now that i have had a chance to play hotseat and try out all the diffrent armies 
 i can now say i like the job they done with all but one army which is the wizard army.. Its great 
 if your a curry muncher but im not interested in heros on elephants with giant turbans sorry its 
 just not very wizard like. don't get me wrong i have nothing against indians they are a friendly 
 mob but i don't feel that style for a wizards army is any good, but thats just my western opinion 
 i guess. Also a limited selection of heros to buy is a bit of a downfall but i can put up with 
 that, im sure there will be expansion for this game that will add more to it as with previous games.
 
  
  As for bugs Stop wining every game has them last time i checked humans still make these games so 
 there will always be mistakes or problems any decent game company will update and fix these problems. 
 i mean really Is anybody perfect and if you think you are well you know what we all think of you 
 so i don't have to say it.
  
  Back to the game Combat has been beefed up with your hero being able to make charge attacks anywhere 
 on the field with no retaliation:) Top stuff finaly i get to see my hero do something other then 
 sit there casting spells. although spells do get deadly like in other might & magic games
  
  Some creatures have changed abilitys some for the better.. Ghosts now have an ethereal ability 
 instead of gaining in numbers which is alot better, you were unstopable with ghosts in the other 
 games it was to easy playing a necro.
  
  Seems to be more balanced out now instead of having overpowered evil armys. Not that was a problem 
 for me being an evil sod, but i thought it was unfair to good players i crushed because the army 
 they had was weak in the end game.
  
  Grab yourself a copy its not a game you will be taking back anytime soon.
  Worth to money i paid 
 and im pleased i didn't waste my cash.
  
  P. S there is always room for improvement Nothing is Perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhalcyon
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Being an avid gamer, often times you find yourself sampling games of almost every genre. While 
 RTS are what appeal to my palette the most, more than enough times have I delved into RPG games. 
 What's best about this game, is HoMMV is a smattering of both. To me, Heroes is one of those games 
 you hear about - a "classic" - constantly, but never really bother to pick up and play. Something 
 told me, however, that this one was the one to plug into. When I first booted the game up, I knew 
 next to nothing about this game (I don't like reading manuals until after I've tried it once) . 
 To be honest, I was expecting to play it for a hour and drop it until I get bored later. I started 
 playing at around noon, and when I finally pulled away to somewhere near a clock, it was somewhere 
 around 8:30 P. M.
  
  Here's the run-down of my opinion of this game (using Gamespot's Attribute ranking system) :
  
 
  Gameplay:
  
  Obviously, gameplay is the real meat of any game. Which means, you can have the latest in graphics 
 technology, and still have a sucky game (like Bet on Soldier) . Luckily, this is not the case, and 
 from what I gather, if you were a fan of the series you already knew the goods were in the package, 
 and mostly undamaged.
  
  Heroes is a combination of RTS with an icing of RPG over the top. The RTS layer is more akin to 
 the Kohan series (with the city building aspect, and building related technology and unit tree 
 aspects) . Whereas in regards to Role-playing, comes off as very light - in a good way - and isn't 
 intimidating like some find the Dungeon and Dragon-ish RPGs. 
  
  You spend most of your time sending your main and satellite heroes running around a fully 3-D map, 
 littered with resource-related buildings (including certain types of infantry) and power-ups, for 
 lack of a better term.
  
  On occasion you will come across the inhabitants of the land, and will confront them in one of 
 three ways. Either they will join your army, run in terror from it, or fight to the death against 
 it. If they run, you can attack them for the experience, or just let them go. But should you decide 
 a battle is in your best interest, or a hostile force initiates combat, you will find the battle 
 system is very uncomplicated up-front, and easy to get the hang of. You place units on a map, which 
 is full 3-D and rotate-able, where you will place your units and form a preliminary strategy of 
 defense/attack. It's all very simple but before you know it you'll be making quick mathematical 
 - as well as tactical - decisions subconsciously. The reason being, the game has a very intricate 
 base running behind all little guys on the screen. If you have more than the other guy, it's usually 
 good. But spells, area of attack, type of attack, resistances, unit damage, unit type, etc. etc. 
 have a large outcome on how much damage will be inflicted. For example, 6 Paladins can very easily 
 overcome 80 Plague Zombies... very easily...
  
  There is too much to talk about from Gameplay, so for the sake of time, I'll keep moving.
  
 
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics are very important to me. I can't stand the jaggies; I would rather have low-resolution 
 textures than see a bunch of jagged edges around my units. That being said, HoMMV has very good 
 graphics for the type of game being portrayed. A bit too colorful for my tastes, but how else could 
 you really render the game and not look even more silly? 
  
  The effects are what you'd see from some Japanese or Korean MMORPG. Which isn't a bad thing, since 
 these are a lot better -- for the most part. You learn to forgive the lack of creativity in the 
 spell effects everytime the 3-D engine basically makes a cutscene out of an attack order you just 
 gave your unit.
  
  Probably the biggest thing left to be desired, is the lack of options. You only have resolution, 
 AA, AF, and quality. Period. I usually like to tweak the best out of my game (my video card is 
 very finicky about shadows) , but the game runs fine enough.
  
  Sound:
  
  This was the biggest gripe I have about this game. The music is very repetitive, and I just hope 
 it changes when I get further into the game. Otherwise, my headphones are staying off.
  
  I also don't understand why someone would think it is a good idea to have ambient sound noises 
 (in this case bird calls) consistently ringing. At first, I thought it was an actual animal outside, 
 but I realized it was a "coo" from a bird from the game, constantly playing over the music. No 
 matter what I did, I couldn't even out the music over it. Not only that, but it wasn't randomized. 
 It played on a very strict, periodic basis.
  
  It could just be me, but I notice little things like that, and game developers should too. They 
 made it after all.
  
  Value:
  
  I can see an endless amount of replay into this game. Not only that, but this is an extremely long 
 game! I dropped 8 hours into it on my first run through, and I only scratched the surface.
  
  Tilt:
  
  Overall, this is a very solid game. I can see myself playing this in my repertoire 
 of games for a long time. Right alongside Act of War, and Empire at War. That's right, I think 
 it's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfyEre
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  To start, I'm sure the question on many Heroes of might and magic fans mind is whether this game 
 is more like Heroes 4 or Heroes 3. For many people (Including myself.) Heroes 4 was a huge disappointment. 
 It wasn't a "bad" game, but most of the new features made the game worse rather than better. Thankfully, 
 almost all those features have been removed from this game and it has gone back to the Heroes 3 
 formula with added features, it does work much better and any Heroes 3 fans should love this game.
 
  
  The single player campaign in this game is a blast, the story can be interesting although fairly 
 basic, and it's quiet lengthy so you're bound to have many hours spent into it. UnfortunatelyI 
 can't really say the same about the multiplayer aspect. Some promised features such as Simultaneous 
 turns didn't make it to end package, there is also a severe lack of maps. With only 10 maps to 
 choose from, no allied maps, and the fact that Map Editor was not included either. Multiplayer 
 isn't all that great at all due to a servere lack of content.
  
  Infact, that's my major gripe about the whole package, the lack of content in all areas outside 
 the campaigns is quiet upsetting indeed. The game itself is great but there simply isn't enough 
 content to enjoy it on. The game is also full of many bugs, spelling errors, and even missing some 
 artifact descriptions, among other things. The release feels very rushed and I can only hope some 
 patches will fix it all. I feel many content patches in the form of multiplayer maps and even promised 
 features that were excluded from the final product should be patched in also. If they are lazy 
 and simply release a few patches to fix bugs, then leave all the new content for an expansion that 
 SHOULD of been included in the original product I'll be very disappointed.
  
  Now that may make it sound like I don't like the game much. But that isn't the case at all. The 
 gameplay while the content lasts is very enjoyable. The factions differ much more than in previous 
 heroes games making each one feel much more unique than before. The skill system for heroes is 
 a lot more interesting than in previous heroes games, and most creatures have unique and special 
 abilities which makes the fighting alot more interesting. 
  
  The graphics and sounds in the game are both beautifully done. At first the game being in 3D can 
 be a bit of a nuisance, missing items on the ground and such, but after playing for awhile you 
 do get used to it. Some people have complained about many performance issues with this game, but 
 I havn't experienced anything. The game runs silky smooth and loading times are very quick. My 
 system isn't even all that powerful at all (It only barely meets the recommended requirements.) 
 which makes me think that all those performance issues are just bugs, which really isn't surprising. 
 Hopefully they will also be fixed in later patches.
  
  I've enjoyed the game alot thus far, however the lack of content and the many bugs makes me wonder 
 how long it'll last. Still, it is a great game and I'd recommend it to any Heroes fans, especially 
 those who enjoy single player campaigns. Multiplayer is abit... meh, but hopefully patches will 
 fix that. With simultaneous turns, a larger map selection, and all the bugs fixed I'm sure that 
 would be great as well, but until then... If that's all you wanted I'd suggest to wait on purchasing 
 the game. You could probably pick it up cheaper by that time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alabama152
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I think that they did a real good job mixing the advantages of Heroes III and IV in one game, while 
 playing this game, I encountered some bugs like Kasavin tells us in his review, but I'm really 
 sure they're gonna be fixed with the up-coming patch, and i agree with Nival's producer about delivering 
 the map editor some months after the game, it's better to deliver it fully functional.
  
  So let's talk about the game:
  
  I really like the six factions of the game, especially the 
 Haven, it has been a very good idea to use the music in order to transmit to us the faction's personality, 
 but some players like melodies instead of ambient, but I agree with the first one, one thing i 
 think Greg hasn't mentioned is that there is some sound effects that not fully make you feel, per 
 example, the catapult's boulder when striking the wall, or the inquisitor's attack. They not give 
 full justice to the extremely amazing effects of the game.
  I really liked the design of the creatures, and the colorful world that they created but i already 
 begun to miss my dear Death Knight, (Why Nival?! Why?!!!) . The cities are really beautiful but 
 they could have added more polygons, the combat system is really Heroes III reincarnated, the wait 
 button is missing but not inavailable.
  
  So finally, it's a game that really surprised me, and showed us the Titanic ears of Nival, i've 
 never seen a studio so opened to fans at this point.
  Long live to Heroes!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Souldreath
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  first time i play heroes of might and magic 4 i said thatwhat is this? where is my heroes 3 
 cdbut later after playing it i love homm 4 much than 3. i do not understand that why lots of 
 player didn't love homm 4. i think they didn't spent time with homm 4. yes it had graphic so childish 
 but after playing homm 4 more time you couldn't return 3. i have lots of friend they didn't like 
 4 but i persuaded them to play it some more and after that they couldn't return to. i think every 
 homm game has a diffirent soul and every homm game is greatest strategy game of its time...
  again first day after playing homm 5 i felt same thing - "where is my homm 4 cd :P" - but now i 
 worship to this game. new initiative system, new creature powers , new hero abilities and skills, 
 3d world and battle system all of them are great. 
  after 4 years again, sleepless nights begin for me!!!! for us for all heroes lovers!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Occisor
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 24, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Well... there are few good things to say about the game. The only good things are most of the sounds 
 (some suck ass) , the hero skill system, and the fact that the whole game is in 3D.
  There are a lot of negative things about the game though. The graphics in general aren't that nice, 
 and are in some cases pretty lame. Like some of the monsters and creatures. For example the peasants 
 that look pretty stupid, so does the skeletons, zombies, gargoyles etc. And the fact that the characters 
 mouths doesn't even move when they speak makes the game look pretty dated. I also think that in 
 a way, the 3D made the graphics worse compared to heroes 4.
  Also, some of the sounds and music in the game are pretty disappointing. Like the human footmen 
 that sound like monsters from a Gameboy Advance-game. And it didn't take long before I got pretty 
 tired of some of the background music pieces in the game.
  The story of the campaigns was something I hoped would save this game, but it turned out the story 
 was pretty much the same story as in every other fantasy-game. Or at least nothing very unexpected 
 happens in the storyline. Maybe except of the undead kinda being nice guys and stuff (Lord of the 
 Rings?)
  Compared to Heroes 3, this game misses atmosphere, style, originality, 2 factions and alot of monsters 
 and creatures. Wanna see some greenskins and lizards like in the other ones! And why remove the 
 coolest monster of them all: the Behomot!! And they also ruined the dungeon faction by removing 
 all the cool monsters and replacing them with elves... wtf?! And they also made the huge, strong 
 miniotaurs incredibly weak!! Cool dragon saved this faction, but heroes 3 had a cool black dragon 
 too.. and did they remove the red dragon in Heroes 5?? That sucks too. The griffins from haven 
 also sucks... they're way too weak. Also the forest faction was ruined.
  One last bad thing (although I could go on for ever) , the factions among each other are very unbalanced. 
 Elves are way too good, and the undead are pretty weak...
  
  But though the game isn't even close to be as good as Heroes 3, it was pretty fun and very addicting. 
 A good experience for players new to the Heroes-world, and maybe a step in the right direction 
 after Heroes 4... Heroes 4 was like a very bad version of Heroes 3. Heroes 5 is like a bad version 
 of Heroes 3, just in 3D.
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxmorf
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  I really love this saga, the only one I didn't like was the 4th, and still it was entertaining 
 (what sucking animations on creatures xD)
  The thing that hooked me was the multiplayer on one PC 
  what good ol' memories
  I've been 
 playing Heroes 3 for 
  
  let's hope this game lives long and actively online
  
  s d d d dd d d dd d d d d d d dd d d d d dd d d dd d d d d d d dd d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d dd d ddd d d d d d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonkuong84
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Heroes of Might and Magic series from it's first release, throughout the 10 
 years Heroes has been my favorite strategy game, its uniquie turn based combat system together 
 with town and hero development has lead to an exciting game play.
  
  In this series, the hero's skills has been strongly emphasised and it will make a huge different 
 in combat, even using the same tribe's army.
  
  Graphics wise, it has been a big improvement from 2D to 3D, Heors fans could now enjoy 3D towns 
 and combat in a highly realistic graphics (comparable to AOE3) .
  
  Surely you will not regret buying this game and it is once in a life time experience of joining 
 the Heros family.
  
  Welcome to the family.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: footpunker60
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Heroes of might and magic V is coming out with a brand new 3D engine that is beautiful and refreshing 
 for this series. They added some little things that makes the big difference in the end, for example, 
 the hero attack. There is now more option to customize your hero like you wish, which is great. 
 The solo is as fun as the multi player. YOu can play on a fun hotseat mode for the oldschool player. 
 Whether you are an old fan of this series or a new comer, you'll find an addictive game that will 
 grant you hours of fun. This game is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dav_id83
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 24, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I bought this on launch day and the 4 hours before picking it up read on the official forums of 
 many problems already found. I was amazed even people with high end system with AMD 64 x2 4800, 
 2GB RAM 7900GT where having problem with installing and playing it.
  
  I managed to be the luckily ones mind you I'm still running an Athlon XP 2500+, 1GB RAM & the ok-ish 
 6200 128mb AGP. Anyways the game from start is very well presented the cut scene of the wedding 
 is very good. 
  Getting a wedding crasher in the form of a demon certainly brighten thing's up the main review 
 from gamespot mentions. Just some of the bugs in version 1.0 I was experiencing sound problems 
 in battle.
  
  Like say when I killed an opponent some of the unit shout out loud for a victory and if you listen 
 closely you game a slashing of the heroes sword as well. It also takes a while to get your hero 
 to learn magic you can level up select the ability Basic Dark Magic. But that just means until 
 you get a Mages Guild built in your city you can't anything.
  
  And I've only got to Mission 1 Act 3 and haven't yet built a mages guild maybe on act 4. I've currently 
 un-installed it until a patch for the bugs comes out. But until then I'll look forward to the game 
 once this has been done I don't mind really waiting my outside job is currently throwing everything 
 at me so no time to play games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jompadoddle
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  I loved MoMM4, but here it feels like exactly the same thing. Don't get me wrong this is also a 
 good game, but I personally would have liked some more new things. Also the game goes from very 
 easy to very hard as soon as you start the second chapter, I would have liked it to have been abit 
 nicer to the players. But to make a long story short or atleast shorter the game is nice but not 
 very much more, I'll continue to play it, but it won't become one of my all time favourites as 
 far as I can see it at present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supine
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that I haven't played multiplayer yet, and thats the best part about this 
 series. But I have played HOMM III and IV a lot, and love them.
  
  HOMM V, is more similar to HOMM III. In HOMM IV, it all got a little too complicated in my opinion, 
 so thats a good thing.
  
  They made the transition from 2D to 3D work very well with this sequal, but it can be a little 
 too demanding for some machines. That is unfortunate, becaus this shouldn't be a system demanding 
 game. HOMM is all about gameplay and stratergie ala Civ. Thats why I give graphics 8. The citys 
 looks awesome though.
  
  My first impression of this game was very good, it's what I'd hoped it to be. I never become good 
 at RTS games, becaus they stress me, I don't get the time to think. I like to relax and play at 
 my own pace. Others may call it slow, but thats why i like it so much.
  
  You can compare the battles with chess. It feels very rewarding when you get the hang of it. I 
 remember it felt a little stupid and soulless at first, but now I think it's the best part of this 
 game. You'll find yourself careing for your units, becaus they are hard to produce.
  
  I could write a lot more.. I'll just end by saying it's a superb game but you may not like it :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curendir
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  I've played the whole serie of Heroes. In the past we had to cope with outdated graphics and at 
 first Heroes 4 when it was released made me think we where at least in the right direction. Well 
 the problem was if the graphics were improved the gameplay was completely messed up.
  
  The new heroes does a nice job of putting graphics to 3D, no small challenge while also reviving 
 gameplay.
  At least something that can be used in multi whithout lengthy waiting times.
  At least new depth in the characters abilities.
  At least an easy way to see how efficient you 
 are on the battlefield (the game automatically calculates what the effect of your actions will 
 be and reminders of your characters abilities are easyly available)
  
  And then there's also a great job of re-creating the Might an Magic world background.
  
  I'll 
 play it until the next one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: babke
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 24, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  This is one of the games that all the fans of the series will not miss. The other hand of the scale 
 however are the people who are not acquainted with the whole Heroes family.
  
  Back to this particular game. It's good as any of the people have expected. It has the addictive 
 quality that was present through the whole series and the most important things have been tweaked 
 with responsibility of staying true to the prequels. However there are some issues that I noticed 
 very early in the game.
  
  The issues that I would like to talk about are that for the first time in the series the designers 
 have left the good old interface of the game to make a simplified version that would give you a 
 larger view of the game world. I respect that but it just has that "something's not just right" 
 kind of feeling. I miss things, sometimes I need to look for them in unlogical places, but then 
 again you get used to it.
  
  The graphics are really good (although you won't get much oportunity to look at the units in detail) 
 but i was really pleasantly surprised with the music. It is non intrusive but then again gives 
 that perfect coloration of the visual things in the game.
  
  One thing that i think is a bit of a problem (for all you old Heroes fans) is that you can not 
 have units wandering the world without heroes. That is an issue in case that you need to change 
 the unit (in case your enemy's units want to join you) with what you have in the army. if you incorporate 
 the new unit in the army, the unit that you took out just disappears. In case you don't want to 
 change, the ones who joined you disappear. It would be nice to be to use these units somewhere 
 else if not in your army but ...
  
  Anyhow, the game is great. To all the people that appreciate the Heroes universe and the whole 
 turn-based game-play it will give endless hours of fun and for those not familiar it will soon 
 become one of the games you play over and over.
  
  Shortly put, go get it. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pippin73
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  This is a wonderfulGame ... This is a superb Game .... This is a Excellent Game .. This is a great 
 Game .. This is a fantstic Game.. This is a wonderfulGame ... This is a superb Game .... This is a 
 Excellent Game .. This is a great Game .. This is a fantstic Game.. This is a wonderfulGame ... This 
 is a superb Game .... This is a Excellent Game .. This is a great Game .. This is a fantstic Game.. This 
 is a wonderfulGame ... This is a superb Game .... This is a Excellent Game .. This is a great Game 
 .. This is a fantstic Game.. This is a wonderfulGame ... This is a superb Game .... This is a Excellent 
 Game .. This is a great Game .. This is a fantstic Game.. This is a wonderfulGame ... This is a superb 
 Game .... This is a Excellent Game .. This is a great Game .. This is a fantstic Game.. This is a wonderfulGame 
 ... This is a superb Game .... This is a Excellent Game .. This is a great Game .. This is a fantstic 
 Game.. This is a wonderfulGame ... This is a superb Game .... This is a Excellent Game .. This is a 
 great Game .. This is a fantstic Game.. This is a wonderfulGame ... This is a superb Game .... This 
 is a Excellent Game .. This is a great Game .. This is a fantstic Game.. This is a wonderfulGame ... This 
 is a superb Game .... This is a Excellent Game .. This is a great Game .. This is a fantstic Game.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafbarel
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 24, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  The new game from Ubisoft is mostly a beautified version of Heroes 3, but still its a fun game 
 to play and the genre fans will find it very enjoyable.
  
  The new 3D graphics very welcoming and it is indeed a nice improvement, especially on the world 
 map. The terrain view, the new creatures and city view adds to the reality feel and makes the game 
 much more alive. On the other hand, the battle view is a little small and the fact that one cannot 
 scroll the battle view to the sides (only rotating and zooming are possible) makes it harder to 
 focus on the battle area. Still, the 3D and battle animation is surely a nice addition.
  
  As for performance, the developers made a great job and the game run smoothly when it was adjusted 
 to the highest video quality and this is not even on a high-end computer with the best video card 
 money can buy.
  
  In overall, the game is still a nice game to play, the learning curve is quite short especially 
 for the series followers and you can spend several enjoyable evenings on it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_C_E-Cube
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the heroes series since the second installment came out, and unlike many im 
 also a fan of heroes 4, all those were developed by new world computing so i was a little skeptical 
 about how good it could be in new developing hands
  
  But ubisoft really delivered on this one the new graphics engine is probably the most noticable 
 addition which gives a whole new feel to the general feel of combat and pretty much breathes life 
 into it
  
  The new skill system adds to hero development and feels more like an rpg when it comes to developing 
 your character, great new addition overall
  
  One thing that does seem to be better in previous games was the balance between units in different 
 castles, some units seem way over or underpowered for theyre level however some skills make up 
 for this like the undead Ghost is very weak when looking purely at stats but its ability to make 
 attacks miss 50% of the time can make the whole difference in combat, 
  unfortuntly many of these abbilities arent explained and are hard to understand.
  
  Overall 
 Heroes V is a great sequel to an awesome game and anyone that likes complex but not overly complex 
 strategy games should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanfazar
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I have owned the Collector's Edition version for about a week now. Before the game was released, 
 I really didn't think it could be anything too good. Just a graphics update, maybe some new creatures 
 and some skill-tweaking.
  
  Boy, was I wrong.
  
  For starters, this game has it's flaws. The game feels to run incredibly slow at times, even with 
 the lowest graphic setting (and I have a good computer) . I doubt this is due to the graphical level 
 of the game, but rather a flaw in the game. I believe this'll be fixed with patches eventually, 
 though, this is the version 1.0 after all.
  
  Another flaw.... hmmm... well this version doesn't have Random Map Generator or a Map Editor yet, 
 but they have been promised to come eventually. The scenario amount is quite pitiful (about 9 single 
 player scenarios and about the same amount of multiplayer scenarios) . But this too will be fixed 
 (I hope) once the Map Editor comes out.
  
  And there's no High Scores. Dunno will it come around eventually, but it would've been nice to 
 have already.
  
  But as you probably noticed, none of these flaws have anything to do with the game itself. And 
 the game itself is great.
  
  For starters, the game is A LOT more like Heroes III than IV. How? I'll tell ya:
  
  1) Hero 
 system. The hero doesn't actually take part in battles like in Heroes 3, so he cannot be attacked. 
 He can, however attack physically and cast spells. He doesn't have his own attack stats or anything 
 though, only Spell Points.
  
  2) Skill system. Yup, the ol' good Basic/Advanced/Expert system is back (although there's a way 
 to get a rank after Expert too, but not through normal ways...) . Except it's A LOT better. Each 
 skill has 3 sub-abilities, which you get after acquiring a high enough rank in the correct skill. 
 For example:
  
  Enlightenment. Basic Enlightenment gives you a +1 to one of your primary skills (Attack, Defense, 
 Power, Knowledge) every 4 levels and gives a +10% experience bonus in combat. Now, let's say you 
 took this skill when you leveled up. When you next time level, you can of course choose to take 
 Advanced Enlightenment to further increase the bonuses this skill grants. BUT, this skill also 
 has the 3 sub-abilities: Arcane Intuition, Intelligence and Scholar. So, instead of taking Advanced 
 Enlightenment you can pick one of these skills. (Intelligence, for example, increases your maximum 
 spell points by 50%!)
  
  BUT that's not all! These sub-abilities ALSO have sub-abilities! For example:
  
  If you have 
 Advanced Enlightenment and Scholar (one of it's sub-abilities as stated above) when you advance 
 a level you have a chance of getting to choose a new ability: Arcane Exaltation. This increases 
 your Power permanently by 2. AND, after you have Expert Enlightenment, Scholar and Arcane Exaltation 
 you unlock yet another new skill: Dark Revelation. This skill gives you another level up instantly. 
 This is a very complicated thing, but every time you gain a level, there's a chance that some totally 
 unexpected and great ability might be available. This makes leveling really fun and makes you want 
 to experiment with skills.
  
  (NOTE: there's a tool to help figuring this thing out called the Skill Wheel from where you can 
 see the prerequisites of each skill automatically, but I don't really like to use it. I like finding 
 things out on my own.)
  
  3. Creature system. Yup, upgrading is back. Yup, 7 different creature levels are back. Many people 
 didn't like the limited creature selection in Heroes IV, where you had to choose which level 2, 
 3 or 4 creature you wanted to pick, and then you were unable to use the other. So now again you 
 can have Archangels, you can have Vampire Lords, you can have Pit Lords (who really kick arse in 
 this game) etc.
  
  Also, the Weekly Creature Growth system is back. Again, you only have creatures coming to your 
 dwellings every 1st day of each week. And Citadel and Castle yet again increase the the amount 
 of creatures each week.
  
  And the sounds are really great as well. The music is really beautiful and catchy (all who know 
 the Sylvan city theme know this) , and the overall quality of sounds is really made well.
  
  There a lot more stuff too, but listing it all would take a lot of time. So is this game a straightforward 
 copy of Heroes III with enhanced graphics? No. It is better. A lot better. Creatures have much 
 more skills making them much more interesting, and allowing much more tactics. The skill system 
 is much more deep as stated above, and overall all things from Heroes III have been somehow tweaked 
 and enhanced to make this game much more interesting.
  
  Overall, this game is buggy, slow, graphically nothing new (characters' mouths don't move while 
 they talk for example) , and doesn't have too good map making possibilities (yet) . Or maps for that 
 matter (yet) .
  
  But it's still a great game. No, an awesome game. It is so much fun and it's so goddamn addicting, 
 that it's been a while since I have seen a game like this. If you liked Heroes III, BUY THIS GAME. 
 Heck, if you like turn-based strategy games at all, BUY THIS GAME. After some updating and patching, 
 I'm sure this game'll get even more better.
  
  Guess I'll have to quit now, it's 12:35 am here and I have to wake up at 8... So I'll go get some 
 sleep. After playing just *one* more turn. And one more. And another one...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmscumpelu
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 23, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Well i've played the game, the graphics are incredible there is no other Heroes of Might and Magic 
 game that delivers a better display, pretty much this is the only thing that i find good about 
 this game.
  I've spent about 5 hours in this game and got very bored , the game itself is very slow , caracter 
 development is good but again very slow , to fully upgrade a hero you must become level ,,100'' 
 , there are very few artifacts in the game , maybe it isn't so , but in all the time spent playng 
 i think i found about 5 artifacts the most , this is incredible because in HOMM 3 and 4 , there 
 were hundreds , Ubisoft didn't do a very good job , and talk about spells man again fails a lot 
 very few spells , the game just doesn't come up to my expectations , and there is nothing new in 
 the game i dont know how some people think this is a good game.
  Enough bad talk , the game looks great everything is design very well , the towns look great fully 
 3d , you can zoom, rotate, and i like the new improved way of buying armies and buildings , youonly 
 have to push a button to go to the screen , this is shortcut has been done because you will get 
 lost in your town because of how it looks. Anyway the spells the battlefields the armies everything 
 looks great the game deserves 10 at graphics.
  I don't know how the producer could say that is resembles heroes 3 more that 4 , because H3 is 
 way better ... maybe there will be an expansion pack and will correct the mistakes... who knows 
 we shall see..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baileybaileys
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 23, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  The short of it...
  
  Good -
  1) Nice graphics, but not earth shattering.
  2) Excellent sound
  3) The game follows in the footsteps of the very unique HOMM series.
  
 
  Bad -
  1) The game is incredibly slow. I find it painful to complete even one mission.
  2) There is something to the simplicity of HOMM III, and it just isn't captured here. The gui and 
 interfaces seem clunky and difficult to work with.
  3) I find the game to be slightly boring, and the graphics remind me too much of Warcraft III.
 
  4) I'm tired of 50 dollar, play it for one weekend video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepearson85
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  SO SO SO SO good. All the magic of the first 3, none of the disaster of number 4. Really loving 
 it.
  When the first 3 games came out I was in awe every time, then 4 spoiled it totally, nearly didn't 
 buy this one, thank goodness I did.
  The graphics are fantastic and the gameplay is back to its old best, simply on a larger more grandious 
 scale.
  Once again the game revolves around an epic storyline that unfolds slowly throughout the gameplay 
 and in the great cinematics.
  I  IT
  
  No other way to put it...
  
  over and out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halalmester
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 23, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  Everyone who calls himself a fan of the series long awaited this game. I have played all the games 
 in the series but this one is a big disappointment for me. 
  
  I thought it will be H3 with 3D graphics, and it nearly is, but come on the gameplay is just way 
 slower, and heroes was never a "fast" game. I've played a 2 player scenario on the smallest map 
 (called normal) and it took me 5 and a half hours. It's just not worth the time. 
  
  And what about the story? It's just plain lame... the king and her beloved one want to marry each 
 other and then *POOF* the demons are coming... It's kinda dumb and it has been done before in a 
 much better way. (Like in Heroes 3) . They've erased the cool old MM universe too and put in a much 
 generic fantasy setting with dark elves from Forgotten Realms (well they've even said that) . 
  
  Game mechanics: this is mostly good except the creatures do very low damage and they've a lot 
 of HP in return so basic battles between lvl1 and 2 creatures are taking a lot of time too. The 
 magic and skill system is very good but we've seen that in Heroes4. Most of the new features of 
 H4 are gone.
  
  Multiplayer: the simultaneous turn feature isnt working in LAN games, and there aren't any allied 
 maps, AND no map editor. I miss the editor so much, half of the fun of the old series came from 
 maps made by fans.
  
  Interface: It's very stylish and mostly good, but it's not very informative at first. Let's say 
 you go into a mercenary camp and receive +1 attack skill, then its just shows as +1 sword (icon) 
 or +1 shiny thing etc. A good feature is that you can turn off the interface panels you arent using.
 
  
  Sound: the voiceover is just bad with horrible accent (like Isabel's) and the music is just the 
 same melody remixed over and over, and it tends to be boring after.. like 5 minutes. The other 
 sound effects are OK.
  
  Graphics: brilliant! and stylish! I cant say a bad word for graphics but you know, a game can be 
 good with bad graphics too so I dont think this is important. However you have to look at a full-built 
 city! It's wonderful!
  
  Overall: I don't think this is a bad game. After all Nival did a good job reviving the series, 
 but it could have been better. The lack of new features and the slow gameplay is a big minus. And 
 there's no editor. You know its a decent game, but nothing we haven't seen before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vrubim
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Take Heroes I, mix Heroes II improved castles and upgrades, add some of Heroes III creatures and 
 spice it up with the hero battle action and level ups from Heroes IV and you will get Heroes V.
 
  
  I'm a Heroes fan since the first Heroes. It introduced this beautiful and beloved strategy system 
 that the Heroes series represents, and I have all it's titles to the day.
  
  Ok, but lets focus on Heroes V. It has amazing graphics, very beautiful to look at. Point to the 
 game. I have seen people complaining about the voice acting and honestly, it's not that bad and 
 I don't care about that at all. We're talking about pure strategy here, and that's what counts.
 
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the other Heroes games, although some might need a little time 
 to understand the new castle buildings tree. Ubisoft tried her best to remain loyal to the legendary 
 turn play system of it's predecessors. They even abandoned some of the changes of Heroes IV, to 
 be specific, the creature tree restrictions. I personaly like both systems, and we're back to Heroes 
 origins.
  
  The battle system is as classical as always, and it should NEVER change. Heroes stands for a perfect 
 strategy gameplay, combining intelligence and strategy cunning, "taking your time to plan things" 
 way, not "who moves the mouse faster" type.
  
  The bad point is that this version lacks innovation. It's, in a simple way of saying, a gathering 
 of elements from all the other four Heroes, with very little new things. Sure, we got new creatures, 
 and the hero skills are very interesting, even better than in the Heroes IV, but I feel that, in 
 some way, I've already been there. Ubisoft did not dare to bring too much new elements to the game, 
 perhaps afraid of rejection by the loyal series fans. But this is not a bad thing at all, and this 
 Heroes has everything now to fascinate the new generation of gamers, who may have somewhat restrictions 
 to play old fashioned 2D games.
  
  Although not developed by 3DO, but by Ubisoft, Heroes V constitutes a great title, worth the wait, 
 and very rewarding to play. No doubt you be spending the next weeks and perhaps months in its very 
 addicting gameplay.
  
  I know I will. :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, back in the old days everything was fresh and inovative, so we were happy with whatever 
 we got.. with Heroes 5 i am pleased to say i am happy, very happy! being a long time heroes fan 
 i was sceptical about this, but common guys if were have to compare every hero game evey made to 
 the likes of 1 and 3 our expecations are going to ruin the experience
  
  The game provides amazing colourful graphics bringing the world to full 3D, the developers went 
 all out in makindg sure the fantasy has atmosphere with the graphics.
  
  Gameplay is awesome, keeps you coming back for just one more turn, the only thing i am complaining 
 about at the moment is multiplayer, and not having simultanious movement.. 
  
  Bottom line is, if you're even remotely a fan of the Heroes series this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draqos05
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  I've been playing it like a maniac ever since I got on my hands on it. 
  What I like most is the ability to have both skills and 3 abilities for each skill (Eg: Logistics 
 includes Pathfinding, Navigation and Scouting) , and also the new creatures and town growth philosophy. 
 
  
  I find the grafics somehow encumbering - i have to rotate the map every now and then, no clear 
 orientation on the adventure map, but comparing to what the game gas to offer that's more than 
 acceptable.
  
  As far as I could determine there are only 6 factions (NO BARBARIANS !!!) , and I couldn't locate 
 the map editor - I hope it is going to be released later on.
  
  Overall, it is a highly captivating game , and I believe the gameplay changes are great. I can 
 only hope Ubisoft will follow 3Do's expansion pack strategy for this game - new creatures, campaigns 
 and artifacts in the time to come.
  
  I'm going back to the Demon's campaign now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurglerot
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the HOMM series I was deeply saddened by the loss of 3DO and New World Computing 
 but was encouraged by the news that HOMM5 was to be created. If there are other fans out there 
 who are worried about loss of the feel of the game as it is produced by Ubisoft rest easy! The 
 best way to review this game is to state that it is in almost all ways a direct descendent of the 
 previous titles to the point where in certain cases I cant help but stop and stare at map locations 
 such as the witches hut and remember the small pixel mapped hut on what could generously called 
 a tree! The graphics are strongly reminiscent of Warcraft 3 but more polished. The gameplay is 
 still immersive enough to make you lose hours of your day and the overall game is nothing short 
 of a masterpiece. Now Id better stop before I get all emotional! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j0nny_d4ng3r
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  First of all I must stress this review is from the perspective of someone who has never played 
 a HOMM game before, so fans of the games might have a completely different view!
  
  After being dissappointed with a lot of recent games that I thought would grab me (Oblivion, Civ 
 IV, D&D Online) I took yet another gamble in buying this game. Coming off the back of my 6 month 
 WoW addiction, I needed something fresh, new and rewarding. Luckily, I found all of that in this 
 game. Okay the voice acting leaves a lot to be desired, but the graphics are simply beautiful and 
 are completely immersive when cranked up to 1280 x 960 on a 19" monitor. 
  
  Graphics aside, the gameplay is gripping and never monotonous, it can get tough at times and may 
 seem impossible, but the developers have got the balance just right, constantly pulling you back 
 for 'one more go'. I've only played for 5-6 hours so far but the depth of the game is pleasing, 
 there is a good mixture of tactics, spells, melee and resources that add extra dimensions to the 
 gameplay and keep you interested. I was worried that the Town management section of the game would 
 bog you down in micro-management and detract from the action, but it's done simply and effectively 
 making it integrate seamlessly into the gameplay. 
  
  All in all this is a fun, rewarding game may very well keep you from seeing daylight for several 
 months... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Okay, I haven't played this game for a long time (to be precise, 6 hours) . I am a great fan of 
 Might and Magic series, especially the Heroes series and I have to say, this game (to the moment) 
 is a great resurrection to its previous games.
  Imagine the great story of Heroes III and IV combined with a better and 3D graphics. Great isn't 
 it? The story is mainly constructed Isabell's (Human queen) war against evil. The story is as great 
 as Heroes IV, maybe only slightly "dumb", but overall, it is great. The combat scene is the only 
 thing that I don't really like, although a turn-based game's combat scene wouldn't be as great 
 as an action game's, but still, I'd like to see some improvements in it. The creatures fight not 
 very realastic and a bit spiritless. The sound is the downside of the game. Voice acting is horrible, 
 I mean, come on, we are living in 21st century, should we still play games with "no-talking-mouths"?
 
  
  More coming soon... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
