-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic III: The Shadow of Death
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightandm3tsod/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  3, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 791 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 31, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Except for the new maps and a handful of minor gameplay changes, there's absolutely nothing in Shadow 
 of Death that Heroes veterans haven't seen before. 

 Heroes of Might and Magic III: The Shadow of Death is a standalone expansion for the original Heroes 
 of Might and Magic III, which was a very polished and enjoyable fantasy-themed turn-based strategy 
 game. It includes the entire full game of Heroes III, including all of the features, units, campaigns, 
 and scenarios of the original, as well as nearly all of the features from the Armageddon's Blade 
 expansion. Shadow of Death also includes a handful of its own changes, and a great number of brand-new 
 campaign and scenario maps. On the surface, Shadow of Death seems like a tremendous value for your 
 money. Unfortunately, except for the new maps and a handful of minor gameplay changes, there's 
 absolutely nothing in Shadow of Death that Heroes veterans haven't seen before. In fact, these 
 gameplay changes will likely seem significant only to the most devoted Heroes fans.  

 If you've never played a Heroes of Might and Magic game, but you've heard tell of and are intrigued 
 by the series' fanciful swords-and-sorcery setting, its easy-to-learn gameplay, and its simple 
 yet engrossing turn-based resource and unit-management systems, you should by all means get Shadow 
 of Death. It's essentially a greatly enhanced version of the original Heroes of Might and Magic 
 III, a game that took the previous Heroes games' deep gameplay, colorful graphics, and excellent 
 music a step further. Shadow of Death's insidiously addictive combination of accessible yet surprisingly 
 deep gameplay, detailed and colorful graphics, and pleasant music will likely ensnare hapless neophytes 
 now as completely and hopelessly as Heroes III did last year.  

 That's because Shadow of Death is extremely similar to last year's game - and to the previous expansion, 
 Armageddon's Blade - and seasoned veterans of the Heroes series know it. Shadow of Death's graphics 
 are as bright, colorful, and detailed as Heroes III's, and its music is just as atmospheric, because 
 they're exactly the same graphics and music from the original game. And many of Shadow of Death's 
 "new" features - those not included in the original Heroes III - are from Armageddon's Blade. All 
 of Shadow of Death's "new" creatures are from the previous expansion, as are the enhanced campaign 
 and map editors and the options to recruit both low-level and upgraded monsters from an upgraded 
 structure and to garrison your units at mines and other holdings on the map.  

 Otherwise, Shadow of Death doesn't really have all that much in the way of new material to offer 
 to Heroes fans. Shadow of Death lets you set the difficulty level on campaign games - a commonsensical 
 but otherwise unremarkable gameplay addition that will let new players start campaigns at easier 
 levels and veterans begin in more challenging conditions. Instead of brand-new artifacts, Shadow 
 of Death has "combination artifacts" - set combinations of existing artifacts that grant the hero 
 who possesses all the necessary artifacts great power, though for gameplay-balance reasons, these 
 aren't common or easy to come by in the prepackaged scenarios. The game does include a few subtle 
 enhancements, such as damaging moats in siege combat, a handful of slightly more balanced units, 
 and a few new terrain types that convey bonuses and penalties to heroes who ride across them. But 
 for the most part, these are highly specific changes that do little to improve or refresh Heroes 
 III's overall gameplay. Finally, Shadow of Death includes force-feedback mouse support for certain 
 magic spell effects, a rather silly and wholly extraneous feature that adds nothing at all to the 
 game.  

 There's no question that Shadow of Death has an enormous amount of content. The game includes 38 
 all-new scenarios and seven all-new campaigns, in addition to Heroes III's original 40 prepackaged 
 scenarios and seven campaigns. Shadow of Death also has eight distinctive playable factions - the 
 same factions that were available in the original Heroes III. New players who are interested in 
 the Heroes series but may have balked at the prospect of buying both the original Heroes III game 
 and the Armageddon's Blade expansion at premium prices should get Shadow of Death without hesitation. 
 For these players, the game will provide countless hours of blissful turn-based exploration as 
 you capture resource mines, research upgraded units and fabulous magic spells, and engage in strategic 
 turn-based combat. But Heroes veterans have experienced most of those hours already. For them, 
 Shadow of Death can really only offer a scarce few subtle enhancements, a cache of new premade 
 maps to play through, and a few new objects with which to make their own maps.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  As the second expansion to the acclaimed Heroes III, Shadow of Death pales as a faithful follower. 
 There is nothing strikingly new except for some combination artifacts that follows Armageddon's 
 Blade campaign formats. Other than that, it often involves tiresome battles against or using legions 
 of undead. Yup, as an ambitious undead lord yourself, you will be leading hordes of zombies and 
 skeletons against even more hordes of lifeless and colorless creatures in one of these campaigns. 
 War is a grave business.
  
  So, if you really love the Heroes gameplay just as it is, then good for you, but if you fancy a 
 fresh fix to the usual stuff, then you may well overlook this one.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic III's second expansion, The Shadow of Death , was notorious for not adding 
 as much as the first expansion, Armageddon's Blade .
  
  Shadow of Death is actually set between Heroes II, and Heroes III. The campaigns focus on the rise 
 of everyone's favorite Necromancer (Warlock in the original Heroes) Sandro. He has somehow regained 
 his flesh, and decides that he wants to conquer the world. Four heroes who each have their own 
 campaign are manipulated by Sandro. After they're manipulated by the man who is once again losing 
 his flesh, they all meet and team up against him. Yes, the missions are as uninteresting as the 
 story, unfortunately.
  
  This expansion adds some new single player scenarios for people who can't get enough of those. 
 There aren't any new features for the Random Map Generator in AB, but since Shadow of Death also 
 contains the original Heroes III game I suppose that's to be expected. New World Computing wouldn't 
 want to give SoD one of the prime features of Armageddon's Blade, after all.
  
  All Shadow of Death really adds are some new campaigns and scenarios. This worked in Price of Loyalty 
 for Heroes II, but the difference is that the PoL campaigns were actually memorable and fun to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  The Shadow of Death is the second expansion pack released for 3DO's highly acclaimed strategy title 
 Heroes of Might &amp; Magic III. The Shadow of Death is unique in that it also includes the original 
 Heroes of Might &amp; Magic III as well as the first add-on, Armageddon's Blade. If you haven't 
 purchased Heroes of Might &amp; Magic III as of yet, this makes The Shadow of Death package a must 
 have. If, however, you do already own a copy of the original game, The Shadow of Death becomes 
 simply an expensive add-on. In itself, at such a hefty price, is it worth the extra gaming dollar? 
 Let's find out. So what does The Shadow of Death offer? It features extensive gameplay via 86 stand-alone 
 missions and 14 campaigns, including the original Restoration of Erathia maps, 38 brand new single 
 scenario maps and 7 Shadow of Death campaigns. If you've played Heroes of Might &amp; Magic III 
 but haven't tried the Armageddon's Blade expansion pack, you'll be treated to a number of new creatures. 
 If you have played Armageddon's Blade, you'll be familiar with all combat units as well as the 
 usual 16 hero classes and hundreds of structures. Unique to Shadow of Death are 8 special terrains, 
 each with it's set of unique tactics. There are also 12 new combination artifacts to go with the 
 138 magical artifacts already available. Last but not least, the map and campaign editor have been 
 upgraded with new features. So, pending your previous experience with the Heroes of Might &amp; 
 Magic III game, there's quite the number of features in The Shadow of Death. The Shadow of Death 
 storyline revolves around an evil wizard, Sandro the Necromancer, who has garnered the help of 
 four unwitting heroes to assemble two artifacts of tremendous power. You guessed it, world domination 
 is within Sandro's grasp as he stands at the brink of invading Erathia and AvLee. It's up to you 
 to find the one and only artifact with enough strength to defeat Sandro the Necromancer. Gameplay 
 elements in The Shadow of Death are no different from the original game. Purchasing structures 
 for your towns, hiring new heroes for battle, building up massive armies and adventuring around 
 the land is the order of the day. The only two additions that make a difference within the add-on 
 are the special terrain types and the new artifacts. New terrain types include Clover Fields, Evil 
 Fog and Holy Ground with each providing their own effects upon the armies doing battle. For example, 
 the Holy Ground adds to the morale of good aligned troops and reduces the morale for evil troops. 
 The opposite is true for the Evil Fog terrain. It allows for new tactics within each battle. New 
 artifacts include such items as the Cloak of the Undead King, a garment that improves the hero's 
 Necromancy skill via resurrection of deceased troops. Also available are items like the Angelic 
 Alliance, Armor of the Damned and the Statue of Legion, a precious item that increases creature 
 growth within all your towns. Visual, audio and multiplayer elements remain exactly the same as 
 Heroes of Might &amp; Magic III, and the only other feature that has been improved is the map editor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  I don`t know where to start, but i`m not lying if I say that this game is a lifestyle. When it 
 appears sometimes in 1999 I have a 80486 system at 66 MHz with 20 MB of ram and it tooks weeks 
 to finish a medium sized map (imagine that I`ve finished the restoration of erathia campaign on 
 it) , but I was happy to play this game after I played heroes 2 day and night, this one was the 
 best sequel ever made with thousands of improovments compared to it`s predecessor heroes 2.
  It`s map creator (editor) simply stunned me, the only thing that I missed from it, was the random 
 map generator but this "issue" was fixed later in Armageddon`s Blade. So when AB comes out I was 
 stunned again. By the way many people don`t call this an expansion but I did, I loved the AB artifact 
 the new heroes, the new conflux town and the 4 new dragons, especially when I have diplomacy and 
 100 azure dragons join me in custom scenarios :) Finally, I`m sure that many people do not agree 
 with me, but the greatest step to improove this game was the release of THE SHADOW OF DEATH !! 
 The artifact combos (set items) were great and many bugs were fixed in it!! So I played, I played 
 and I played, over and over again, and I do even now in 2006 when Heroes 5 is here! 
  The conclusion is that Heroes 3 still rulezz and will do so for so many years in the future, if 
 ubisoft do not improove their bad, buggy and lacky copy heroes 3, called Heroes of might and magic 
 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Heros3 is and was the **** I still play it every weekend with my buddies (SoD of course) and we 
 can honestly say its not gettin old. It's lookin like HOMM5 isnt gunna be multiplayer for some 
 gay reason, so we'll probably stick with HOMM3. The expansion mainly features new maps and new 
 creatures. But the maps blow nuts and the creatures are like - Peasants 1hp 1dmg - Nomads 10hp 
 5dmg... like wtf... good creature upgrades, maybe good for me to farm the shit out of but other 
 than that, just plain no. Don't get me wrong there are some kick ass dragon upgrades and some of 
 the maps re real cool, and damn you gotta love sharpshooters. I'm ot gunna rate this as the game 
 like i should, but im gunna rate this just for the expansions upgrades and what it ACTUALLY did 
 in addition to the gameplay of HOMM3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FronzenShock987
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Magic and Might III: The Shadow of Death is one of the best old time strategy game. But 
 really hard to beat without cheating. But when you cheat, the game is less fun.
  
  The whole short of this game is move a hero, collect mines, fight creatures, level up your hero, 
 find treasures, upgrade your castles, and conquer the computer's castle. This might sound easy 
 but it's really hard. Unless you cheat of course, which would make the game less fun. Kinda like 
 a board game of: Castles and Knights!
  
  One bad thing about this game is, that there isn't any secret kingdoms for you to obtain. Just 
 the same kingdom over, and over, and over. And also for the maps too. I don't really know if downloading 
 maps work. I have never tried it before. Or new kingdoms. 
  
  But still one of the best Heroes of Magic and Might III game. Or we can call it an strategy game. 
 But if you want to know the best Heroes of Magic and Might III game you've come to the right place. 
 And the best Magic of Might II game is the original one. Now thats real classic eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sugam
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  If you have already played Heroes of M&M, you will want to play this one. It has all the fantasy 
 elements of a great story and there is a lot to do on this game. You will need all the resources 
 of a normal strategy game and more.
  The game-play is really good and will attract you, but maybe it can loose its powers if you don't 
 play it correctly. The graphics are quite good and the music is awesome. It has stronger monster 
 than the other Heroes of M&M III, and contains almost all the scenarios. We can say its a compiled. 
 
  If you love the strategy games, and like some fictitious things, you will really love this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  Ahhh, Heroes of Magic & Might 3: Shadow of Death is finally mine. I've been waiting for this game 
 for 2 years and now I have it! I've always wanted this game when i was 8 and after two years I 
 have it (thats today) !!! Can you believe how it feels when you get a game that you always wanted 
 a long time ago and now you have it? Well thats how I feel right now. But the bad thing is that 
 the game is in Chinese. Awwwwwww! Thats too bad but who cares!
  
  Gamplay: Well the gramplay is not bad. Everyone gets a staring hero and a castle. Each hero starts 
 with a few soldiers (that includes creatures, demons and other monsters. Well that's what I call 
 them) . In this game your hero could collects rocks, lumber, gems, crystals, oil pots (I think thats 
 how you call it) , sand, and gold. Now those stuff are used to get get soldiers or to build structures. 
 You could also trade money, offer money to get items for heroes. There are 7 type of soldier in 
 everyone different castle. The last one cost gold and 1 or 2 lumber, sand, oil pot, and stuff. 
 The rest just cost gold. Each type of soldier could upgrade to make them stronger.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game is not that good. The bad thing is that the game is 2D looking. 
 2D movements and stuff. The items that the heroes could put on looks amazing. The luck charms, 
 the attack power increase items and defence. They look amazing. The heroes does not look too good 
 but you'll have to stick with it. One of my favourite is the spells. The affects are wicked. The 
 soldiers look great. But they need to improve it a little more to make the game perfect.
  
  Sound: The sound or shall we say the theme of each map sounds peaceful. the music is great! For 
 every map there is a theme. And for every different castles you choose, the theme also changes. 
 When you cast a spell at the enemy, like the lightning, sounds fantastic. The ranged attack movements, 
 for when they hit the enemy, the sound of the throw of spell sounds great. The heroes 3 sound is 
 the best I've heard.
  
  Value: I think that this is one of the best game in the world. Why is the rating of this 7.0? It 
 does not make any sence. This game is the best: Heroes game ever invented. If you do like these 
 game buy this game.
  
  Ciao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Although Heroes IV made some interesting gameplay improvements, Heroes III is a far better game.
 
  
  Gameplay: Addictive and enjoyably slow paced, at least in single player.
  Uncomplicated gameplay has great strategic and tactical depth that allows you to defeat more powerful 
 armies. That is if you are really good. (10)
  
  Graphics: They are beautiful. (10)
  
  Sound: Wonderful soundtrack, however sound effects can get a little annoying after awhile. Still, 
 it's a 10.
  
  Value: Hundreds of hours of gaming! (10)
  
  Tilt: The only game to earn a perfect 10 from me.
  
  The Good: Each town is unique and fun 
 to play. Some might think one town is more powerful than another, but they just don't understand 
 how to change their tactics to make each one's abilities work for them. The towns are perfectly 
 balanced.
  
  The Bad: Every town has the same set of randomly generated spells. This game will suck your life 
 away, in a good way.
  
  Bottom Line: Heroes III is a classic and is my second favorite game ever, after Thief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  The only 10 score I ever gave to a game. This game has a few faults but the gameplay is so varied 
 and fun, I have to give it a perfect score. The multiplayer is even more fun than the great single-player 
 campaigns. Problems? Well, one map can takes 4 hours or even more. When playing single-player, 
 sometimes luck can give you or the computer player some amazing artifact. That wouldn't be so bad 
 except 4 hours is a long time to play a map only to win or lose because of a one random artifact. 
 It doesn't happen a lot, but it happens. The computer AI doesn't cheat so much, but it does play 
 the game ruthlessly well with resource allocation. The computer is very good at getting the dragons 
 before you have the resources to do the same. This means that the most imporant thing you can do 
 is find the computer player on the map before he finds you. If you dont mess with him early, he'll 
 sick black dragons on you. This sounds like a lot of complaints, but it isn't. You have to play 
 the game for a long time before you see these faults. By the way Heroes IV is a dog -- a real dog. 
 But Heroes 3 instead. Shadow of Death is a stand-alone version of Heroes 3 with all of the maps 
 and campaigns of Heroes III plus a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2003 8:08 am PT
Review:  The best Heroes game ever made, period! HOMM3: SOD in my opinion represents the pinnacle of the 
 HOMM series. It had the best maps, enemies, heroes, and campaign of any of the HOMM games, and 
 I've played them all. If you are a fan of HOMM, you must play HOMM3: SOD or you haven't really played 
 HOMM. HOMM4 was a downgrade from HOMM3 and had absolutely horrible campaigns in the original release 
 and in both expansion games. 3DO is bankrupt, so HOMM5 which was rumored to have gone back to using 
 the HOMM3 design with new graphics and units is probably dead too, unless someone buys the rights 
 and finishes it. Therefore, if you are longing for more HOMM enjoyment and have not played HOMM3: SOD, 
 buy it now. You can probably find it for less than $10. HOMM3: SOD is the only original HOMM game 
 I still own, and the only one I will keep because it is of one of the three greatest turn-based 
 strategy games ever made. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
