-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightandmasq/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 8.2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 358 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Heroes of Might and Magic isn't spectacular, but it sure is fun. 

 In an era where graphics and sound development are pushed to the limit, New World Computing is still 
 working on what counts the most, good gameplay. Although it may not be the most technically advanced 
 game of the year, the company's latest spin-off, Heroes of Might and Magic, is an extremely enjoyable 
 strategy game with a fantasy overtone that RPG fans will also appreciate.  

 Not much for storyline, Heroes invites you to jump straight into the action by choosing one of four 
 different player types, Knight, Barbarian, Sorceress, or Warlock, each with their own specific 
 powers and followers. Depending on the scenario, which can range from short games played out on 
 a small map to extremely expansive adventures, you will have a goal that you must achieve to win 
 the game. You start in your castle with at least one hero and will immediately need to build units 
 appropriate to your starting character's background and the structures currently available to you. 
 Building new edifices will enable you to recruit more powerful unit types, ranging from the relatively 
 innocuous (goblins, sprites, and peasants) to the ultra-powerful (paladins, dragons, and phoenix) . 
 As you might expect, neither construction nor recruiting is free, and so you must take your army 
 abroad in search of treasure, resources, and conquest.  

 Once on the main map, you'll immediate notice several small icons representing various encounters 
 in your immediate area. As you explore these mini-adventures, you'll battle with wild monsters, 
 discover magic spells, gain possession of valuable mercury and sulfur mines, and perhaps even find 
 a few allies. For each valuable resource center you gain control of, from sawmills to gold mines, 
 you'll gain a weekly allowance of that particular commodity. Your enemies will also want to gain 
 control of these centers, so it's important to keep your troops on the ready at all times.  

 Game combat is very simple, and with a few exceptions, generally breaks down into who has the 
 most and more powerful troops. In addition to the hand-to-hand and missile combat of the ground 
 troops, you may utilize spell-casting. The game features over 25 different spells to choose from, 
 ranging from exploration spells that help you find new resources to combat spells that will send 
 fiery death raining down upon your opponents.  

 Heroes of Might and Magic isn't spectacular, but it sure is fun. The Multiplayer mode includes options 
 for up to 4 players taking turns on one machine, or two player head-to-head competitions by network 
 or modem connection. If you like turn-based strategy games, or you're an RPG fan looking for something 
 a little different, you'll find that title is a worthy addition to your game library.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MagicHat1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  3DO have created a popular series and to do that, the basics have to be right from the start. Graphics 
 may not be amazing but they are good enough, cartoony and somewhat adorable. No voices and sound 
 effects are fairly simple but the music for each faction is catchy, of course you can turn off 
 the sound if it gets boring. So neither of those factors is brilliant enough to be a "well at least 
 they got one thing perfect" if the game is poor while those factors not poor enough to bring down 
 a good game.
  
  
  The game would stand and fall by the quality of it's gameplay and the balance of the four factions. 
 The game basics are good and by now well known, gathering resources, building up your castles, 
 building up the army, grabbing items and mines. In battle, correctly positioning your forces, using 
 your spells well and trying to use your troops better then your opponent. However if one side starts 
 off unbalanced, no matter how good the rest of the game is, the whole gets wrecked. To 3DO's credit, 
 none of the four factions are either too weak or too strong so you can play as any, at least in 
 single player. The knights lack ranged troops, magic and are not the best spell casters but their 
 heroes give a boost of moral and make your troops hard to kill with their high defense. Their castle 
 and troops are cheaper then the others so while inferior up until you get Knights and Paladins, 
 you can get more of them so end up with an army dwarfing your opponent. The Barbarian heroes are 
 strong in the attack and are quicker on land, making useful scouts though weak on magic. The troops 
 lack mobility but have good range and cyclopes are very powerful, need a lot of ore though. The 
 sorceress hero is quicker over water and a powerful one can have a lot of Armageddons up her sleeve 
 though is weak in melee. The need for a Mage's guild means Mercury, not the easiest resource to 
 grab is needed, the troops are very quick and have good ranged troops, with Druids tending to go 
 first they and a good spell give the sorceress a chance to cause massive damage before the opponent 
 can move. Warlock heroes, again poor melee but they are the most powerful spell-casters in the 
 game and see furthest on the map which makes them useful scouts. Their castle is the most expensive 
 in the game in terms of gold and the need for sulfur for not just two buildings but your dragons 
 mean warlocks can be slow starters. Troops are expensive but powerful, usually the most powerful 
 in the class and dragons are the best troops in the game. They lack ranged troops but have three 
 quick units, the problem for a warlock is despite the powerful magic, despite the powerful troops, 
 3DO have made them so expensive that the others forces could build up and take them over before 
 the warlords can really build up.
  
  
  Each faction clearly has advantages and disadvantages, while dragons are unbelievably powerful, 
 I have defeated a warlord army packed with dragons with a knight army. Some maps will suit some 
 armies more then others but overall, the balance for single player is superb, the ability to hire 
 heroes not of your faction was a good touch and of course, when you conquer an enemy town you can 
 buy their type of troops. Are dragons game breaking in their strength? As I said , I have defeated 
 warlock armies with lots of dragons in and they tend not to have that large a dragon section yet 
 if you can grab warlock cities and get ten or fifteen dragons, the level tends be as good as won. 
 
  
  Therein is one of the main flaws, in a multi player game, the first person to be able to build 
 ten or so dragons has a huge advantage over every other player, one that can decide a game. In 
 single player, a good solid fun game is wrecked by a very poor campaign mode. In the game there 
 is almost no story, no reason to play it again other then to attack the faction capital of the 
 side you first won it with yet it could still be a fun in one play through if not for a major flaw 
 or two. For one the game feels like it is cheating at times, the other factions always know which 
 creatures will join them and can sense when you leave a castle unguarded, though that isn't always 
 a bad thing. The other major problem I have is the campaign difficultly level is very erratic. 
 First level is easy, too easy, the second level has the right balance between being hard enough 
 to force you to think and work hard but without being impossible to those that persevere through 
 the setbacks. The third level is one that is entirely different from usual but good balance but 
 the fourth is a horrible one. Suddenly the spike goes from formidable to very hard, it will take 
 a couple of restarts but that level can be done with a lot of frustration. Suddenly, the next three 
 levels are like level two, it has the right balance, doable but formidable. Then the last level 
 made me long for the fourth level, the enemy concentrate solely on you and make it very very very 
 hard. It should have built up the difficulty level over time, not waver from one set of difficultly 
 to another.
  
  None the less, it is a good if sometimes frustrating game and one from which 3DO excellently built 
 from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChewyKump
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the early Heroes of Might and Magic series, and this game is what started it 
 all for me. One could argue that King's Bounty was the first. Yeah, it sure was, but in HoMM the 
 fact you can be different castles (races) and to have many different monsters intrigued me tenfold. 
 One contributing thing about this game were its ghetto but classic graphics. I honestly don't care 
 about graphics. If the game has them, i try to utilize them. But, i don't judge a game by how much 
 their graphics suck or rock. But anywho, the graphics for this game were awesome. Very much like 
 a cartoon of sorts. Another thing that was awesome with this game was it's option to make your 
 own map. That was indeed much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarrom_Fin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and magic is a great series of games, where you have move around the map collecting 
 resources and artifacts, and also fight your enemies and hordes of monsters. The gameplay of the 
 first game is still good 12 years after, and it hasn't changed much over the years in the later 
 parts. The gameplay is like combined turn-based strategy and roleplaying which was a very original 
 idea in 1995. So gameplay is very simple, but still an excellent one. Graphics of the first one 
 are very similar to Heroes II, and was great compared to the time when this game came to market. 
 My opinion is that Heroes I has still very colorful graphics, which are very nice to look at. Sound 
 of the game isn't so good anymore, but its not awful. Some of the musics are great and some are 
 annoying in my opinion. The fighting screen heroes I is far worse than in Heroes II, III, or IV. 
 The worse part is that, your units look so big, and it ruins some of the gameplay. In heroes II 
 the fighting screen was made better, by making the units much more smaller. The story of Heroes 
 of might and magic I is not well explained like in the later series, so some people may be annoyed 
 by this, but the story is essential if you wan't to know what happened before II, III, IV and V. 
 Heroes I is an great game, but there is one very big problem. The four factions are not equal. 
 When castle is an awful faction that has bad and slow units, Warlock is superior to all factions 
 with dragons, hydras etc. They made this mistake in heroes II too. That annoys me, because I don't 
 want to play as warlock , but If I want surely win, then I have to take warlock.
  
  
  Still Heroes I is a great game, which Started a great series of games which I have been playing 
 all my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Turn based strategy games were nothing new in 1995, but above average ones were not very common. 
 Heroes of Might and Magic, the spiritual successor to King's Bounty, and spin-off to the Might 
 and Magic role playing series was a very welcome above average entry into any strategy fan's collection.
 
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic is set on the same world as most of the Might and Magic games. The nearly 
 non-existent storyline of the original Heroes focuses around four Warlords who are competing over 
 the conquest of a newly discovered continent called Enroth. In the campaign you can choose to take 
 the role of any of these four Warlords, and battle the other three Lords with mercenaries called 
 Heroes.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic focuses mostly around mercenaries called Heroes who you as one of the 
 four Warlords, hire, and command. These heroes don't actually fight themselves, however; they simply 
 offer leadership to armies you purchase for them at a town you own. Heroes can, however, cast magic 
 spells that they can learn at a town's Mage Guild (if they own a Magic Book which you can buy for 
 them at a Mage Guild for 500 gold) . Also, a hero's stats effect how well your units do in battle. 
 Having a hero with a high attack skill means that your units will do more damage when attacking 
 the enemy. Most of the game consists of you ordering your heroes to explore places, and to capture 
 resource buildings while battling neutral monsters for control of artifacts, useful structures, 
 and to conquer unowned towns. You also have to battle enemy heroes, and often conquer enemy towns 
 to win.
  
  Heroes has more than just a campaign, it also features a Standard Game mode which consists of a 
 bunch of unrelated scenarios where you can choose which faction you want to lead against the other 
 three. The scenarios in the original Heroes are little more than skirmishes, but if you'd rather 
 not bother with the campaign they are fairly entertaining. The Windows version of Heroes also features 
 a Map Editor, and a Random Map Generator giving the game infinite replayability. If you tire of 
 the same scenarios over and over, you can load up the Map Editor and generate a random map for 
 use in a Standard Game. This is a very nice touch, and though the RMG is a bit rough around the 
 edges, it also means that you won't ever run out of maps.
  
  The graphics in Heroes are fairly cartoony and resemble something out of an illustrated fairy tale 
 book. This brings a certain charm to the game, especially when it's stacked up against more serious 
 looking games (including the later games in the series) . Still, the cartoony 2D graphics may turn 
 some people away, but I liked them then, and I still like them now.
  
  The audio is not really anything special. It's fairly standard, and features very few sound effects, 
 and the music is mostly forgettable though some of the town themes (especially the Warlock town 
 theme) aren't bad.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic is a classic strategy game in every respect. Players who got into the 
 series with Ubisoft's recent Heroes of Might and Magic V may find the graphics, and audio difficult 
 to stand, but it's definitely a game that belongs in every turn based strategy fan's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Simus_X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  That's right, it's the best multiplayer game I've ever played. I love it. Especially when you're 
 playing with a friend who you've known for a long time. I played it all summer and never got bored 
 of it. So basically this is a strategy game where you get heroes and have to conquer the map or 
 find the treasure. The game is based on resources. Without resources, you'd be nothing. There's 
 gold, gems, ores, and more that make up your daily life. You can get these resources from mines 
 that give you the resource daily, or just a small amount on the ground left by someone. Now, with 
 these resources you can build buildings depending on your type of castle. There's four types of 
 castles. human, barbaric, mystic, and evil. You get different units for every castle, such as dragons, 
 pheonixes, cyclops, and paladins as well as many, many more. There's also a vide range of magic 
 spells you can get that are fun to use and destroy your enemy with. This game is worth buying. 
 Don't rent it, you won't get anywhere in that little time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Finding older games is easy these days in bargain bins in most electronic stores. I found this 
 game for a very good price. The story line is basic. Build Explore &amp; Hunt down your opponents. 
 After a few maps, I got the feel of the game and got quickly addicted. Although its like a more 
 advanced form of Risk, amassing large armies can be quite fun. Graphics were not bad for the 1st 
 installment of this series. Music was ok. There are plenty of maps to enjoy. The Computer AI could 
 be stronger but not so easy to walk over at some difficulty levels/maps. Some take even a few hours 
 to complete.
  Overall its a decent game for its Genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The Heroes Of Might & Magic series has gone on to become one of the most loved series of games 
 ever. While it doesn't have a fanbase the size of some other games out there  
 the many fans that do play these games are pretty die-hard. I have noticed & met a lot of people 
 that love this series that started playing with HOMM2, and not the original. This would be a mistake, 
 as the first game is a fun & important game in the series. It laid the groundwork for everything 
 that was to come. Sure it has it's share of problems (especially visually & audio wise) , but you 
 just can't deny that this series has an addictive quality like no other and this is where it all 
 started.
  
  Gameplay: Back in 1995 we didn't have lots of games like this. When Heroes came out, I thought 
 it was a fun game. I also thought it could have been so much better. The gameplay here is simple 
 & complex at the same time. If you have played the other Heroes games, you will be able to sit 
 down with this game and know what you are doing instantly. If this is your first experience with 
 this series, then I would recommend that you let your family, friends, wife/girlfriend, & your 
 work that you may be away for awhile. This is addictive turn-based strategy at it's best....... for 
 1995.
  
  The reason I tossed that reference to 1995 in there is because unlike the other games in this series, 
 this one doesn't stand the test of time as well as the others. You start the game by picking either 
 a campaign mode, multi-player, stand alone scenario, or you can make your own maps. The campaign 
 mode is split up into four different parts. Each part represents a different 'faction' in the game. 
 There are Knights, Wizards, Warlocks, & Barbarians. Each faction has it's own part of the story 
 attached and you start that campaign with a set of heroes and armies that are associated with that 
 faction.
  
  The story here isn't developed half as much as it would be in the later games. There are obviously 
 no cut-scenes, as the graphics here are quite primitive (even for '95) but more on that later. 
 You don't really get into the story much. You are basically thrown onto a map with a castle and 
 you build, produce, battle, etc. your way to victory in a turn-based strategy style. I love the 
 gameplay of this series and it's one of the most addictive things I have ever played in my life. 
 I have spent many hours with these games and gone to bed at 10am way too often for my own good.
 
  
  All of the problems that I had with this title were basically fixed in the sequal. I know it's 
 not fair to compare a game to it's sequal, so I am not doing that. I thought of these problems 
 BEFORE I played the sequal. I really didn't like how small the battlefield was made by the sheer 
 size of the characters on the battle screen. Some of the factions were unbalanced and would dominate 
 the other factions. Magic is way too powerful here and makes the game annoyingly diffcult at times 
 for the factions that don't use magic as much. There are no 'spell points' in the game. There are 
 only 'how many times can you use each spell', which I never understood. The same idiotic and annoying 
 CPU AI that has plagued the series through the third game is even worse here. Instead of making 
 heroes that are strong and have decent armies, the CPU mostly throws a bunch of weak heroes at 
 you with very small armies and tries to take over your castle while you are exploring. That was 
 the biggest annoyance in the game for me & has been with this series for awhile.
  
  And I wish you could carry your heroes over to the next missions. I know that sounds like I got 
 that after playing the sequals, but I thought that back when I played this the first time. Some 
 of the missions are very long and it annoyed me to have to give up a hero that I took so long to 
 develop, only to lose him and start all over again at the next mission. I also felt like the game 
 shouldn't have made the first level armies so useless, especially after you get the top level armies 
 and there isn't even a spot for the lowest level in your hero's personal garrison. Unless you want 
 to sacrifice a better army, that is.
  
  Other than those complaints, I thought this game was fun. It didn't make you lose your mind (calling 
 in sick to work three days in a row) like the sequal did, but it's fun to see where the series 
 started and this is a good game no matter what came after it. And I did rank this game fairly, 
 like I would if it was Aug. 1995 instead of bashing it because of what the sequals did better. 
 All of my complaints were from back when I first played the game. I did have a lot of fun with 
 this and I would recommend it to any fan of the series.
  
  Graphics: While the gameplay holds up well over time, the visuals are another matter. I never liked 
 the visual look of this game. I did like how colorful it was and it had it's moments. But this 
 game was ugly back in '95 & even more ugly now. And it's not just the fact that the graphics aren't 
 very good, I never liked the art style of the armies in the game. I thought they all looked goofy 
 and oversized. I think a Cyclops or Phoenix should look intimidating, not goofy & cartoony. Don't 
 even get me started on how stupid the Hydras & Dragons look. Some people like the 'cartoony' look 
 of this series and I would agree the sequals look great. This game just looked like crap to me 
 back in '95 and time has really taken it's toll.
  
  Sound: Like the visuals, the sound here is pretty crummy overall. The music isn't too bad, but 
 the SFX are absolutely terrible. Along with the goofy visual style, the SFX make you feel like 
 you are playing some cartoon and not a turn-based strategy game.
  
  Value: With a map editor and a lengthy single player game, this will keep you busy for awhile. 
 Eating up your time has never been a problem for this series and this is no different here. Plenty 
 of bang for your buck.
  
  Tilt: I really wanted to give this game a higher score, but I had to be objective and leave my 
 love for this series at the door. The graphics & audio were ancient by '95 standards. The gameplay 
 is fun, but needed some refinement. I would recommend this to any fan of the series, though. I 
 would just say that you should play this game FIRST if you are new to the series. If you come back 
 to this, you may not want to give it a fair shake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilelf3214
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: lol I actually still have this game donno if it still works though, but yea.. The gameplay 
 is pretty awesome the new turn based technique in games back then caught my eye =P.. Theres a minor 
 story that goes with the whole game or you can just play againsts and friend or the CPU or anything 
 really.. multiplay was really fun heh.. Really not that many monsters or casltes and etc, but hey 
 wat can u expect its the first to come out from its series. overall the gameplay was really nice 
 and exceeded my expectations.
  
  Graphics: What do u expect lol on windows 95 way back then.. course the graphics are gonna suck. 
 The battle animations for each differ charater didn't really have much detail put into it the monsters 
 and etc looked too much like they came out of a cartoon or something, but besides all that the 
 graphics are alright.. not great.. but decent.
  
  Sound: The sound was pretty decent, there was that music in the background when you battled, matched 
 it pretty well too and the sounds of the environment when you were just out exploring or trying 
 to get somewhere. The sounds from the battle where pretty good too from a peasant stabbing something 
 with his pitchfork to a dragon spraying its fire pretty satisfying if you ask me heh but yea.. 
 overall the sound was pretty good.
  
  Value: Back then course first of its series plenty of peopel went over to try it out and it was 
 a good value course.., but now.. don't think you can find any of these in any store or anythign 
 heh, better off looking online to try to find one and course they'll be really cheap found one 
 at the 99 cents store once lol. overall the value is great and if you can find one then go ahead 
 and get it.
  
  Overall this game is a really nice game and gave the whole series a good start off and I'd recomend 
 this game to anyone who is a fan of the series or you just want to try out an old classic or whatever..
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that probably got me in strategy gaming. The "One more turn" Syndrome hit me hard 
 on this one. "One more turn so I can get my Pheonix". "One more turn, just enough to get that unit 
 of my territorry". "ONe more turn so I can get that city". It was a simple yet very effective design. 
 The stratey was not complicated and even my then girlfriend got in to it. In fact it was the only 
 game she played while with me. 
  
  I played the second and third iteration of this game but I was never able to get the same feeling.... I 
 guess the first time is always the better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:08 am PT
Review:  Here is one of the first turn based games I played, and actually enjoyed it. Heroes of Might and 
 Magic captivated me mainly because it was an action game with strategy and it was simple. It is 
 nothing fancy or showy. The 2d enviroment fits it perfectly, and the gameplay is fun. You can set 
 the dificulties from easy to basically imposible. The cenarios are many, and you can play up to 
 8 players on it. The multiplayer feature is good too, specially since if you only have one computer 
 you can play Hot Seat where each player has his turn. Id recomend this game if you have an older 
 machine and want to enjoy something simple. I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordie59
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2003 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This old game is my favourite strategy game of all time. The graphics are definitely outdated, 
 but its still a blast. Heroes of Might and Magic: A Strategic Quest was the first game I had ever 
 purchased. It took me a while to figure out how to play, but after a couple weeks (I was young) 
 I got the hang of it. There are sooo many scenarios and so many different levels you can play them 
 on. There is no worry about value here, and it scores a perfect 10. It starts to get boring after 
 a while, but when you pick up again in another 6 months, its like a whole new game. The campaign 
 mode is great though limited. Possibly the best part is the simplicity, there aren't all these 
 different controls or items, but it still manages to entertain! A fabulous game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
