-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightandmagic4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.0, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,579 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Developer: New World Comp.
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 29, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Heroes formula clearly stands the test of time in Heroes IV and is every bit as enjoyable as 
 it's ever been in previous games. 

 The Heroes of Might and Magic strategy series dates back to 1990 with the series' precursor, King's 
 Bounty. Since then, the series has given rise to three games and several expansion packs over the 
 course of about a decade. But none of that history really seems to matter at this point. The last 
 game was released in 1999, and devoted Heroes fans -- the group that developer New World Computing 
 has worked hardest to please -- have had more than enough time to play Heroes III to death. And as 
 you might expect from hard-core fans, these dedicated Heroes players have demanded that Heroes 
 IV be both completely fresh and new -- but also that it remains true to the core gameplay of the 
 series. And it turns out that Heroes IV succeeds in doing both, so if you're a serious Heroes fan, 
 you can stop reading now and pick up a copy of the game if you haven't already.           You'll 
 keep taking just one more turn.    

  If you're not a die-hard fan of the Heroes series but have heard something about it, you might 
 know that it's a series of turn-based strategy games that take place in a colorful fantasy setting, 
 which is actually the same universe as the one in New World's Might and Magic role-playing series. 
 And Heroes IV's essential formula is similar to that of the previous games. You create a hero character 
 specialized either in magic or in might (physical combat) . From an initial town, this hero raises 
 an army of troops and ventures out to explore the map, capture resources and items, and conquer 
 enemy towns and armies. Each hero type corresponds to a different town type; and each town produces 
 different types of monsters and soldiers you can recruit for your army. This is Heroes IV at its 
 most basic level, and this formula is at least as engaging and addictive in the new game as it's 
 ever been in the series. If you've ever played a game in the Heroes series, you're probably familiar 
 with the almost insidious way that the games keep you playing for hours. You conduct your exploration 
 and conquest over the course of many turns, and the games always coax just one more turn out of 
 you to capture that last gold mine, treasure chest, or artifact.   

  Heroes IV does an even better job of being this addictive. This is true, thanks to its well-designed 
 maps, which are all jam-packed with treasures, resources, artifacts, and event-triggering buildings 
 that can do all sorts of things, including temporarily strengthening your heroes, giving them quests, 
 and letting them recruit new creatures for their armies. And despite the fact that Heroes IV has 
 no multiplayer options to speak of, there's no shortage of maps to keep you busy. The game itself 
 has six full campaign games, lots of individual scenario maps, and a full campaign editor that 
 lets you create your own custom scenario maps (and connect them into a custom campaign if you wish) . 
 You'll also find a typical game session packed with different options to choose. You'll have to 
 choose the composition of your armies wisely, as well as choose from a great variety of skills 
 that your heroes will learn as they grow stronger.           Choose your armies carefully. You've 
 got tough choices to make.    

  When you first play Heroes IV, all of the game's new options may seem foreign, even bewildering -- even 
 if you're a veteran Heroes player. Right off the bat, Heroes IV has added several new features 
 that have crept in from other turn-based strategy games. Like Age of Wonders and Warlords, Heroes 
 IV lets you resolve some fights by using a quick combat option that takes far less time than standard 
 tactical combat. And like this year's Disciples II, Heroes IV has wandering monsters (that will 
 move across the map and attack you) and a branching path of development for your armies. As with 
 other Heroes games, you need to buy creature buildings in your town to recruit new creatures, but 
 in Heroes IV, you must choose between monsters of a comparable level. Instead of buying up as many 
 creature-generating buildings as possible, you'll need to choose whether you want minotaurs or 
 evil eyes, for instance, or choose between black dragons or titans. These choices may seem limiting, 
 but they actually keep each of the game's different town types (or "alignments" as they're referred 
 to in Heroes IV) interesting over the course of the game. In many cases, your choices can help 
 you develop an army that consists of mostly fast-moving flying units, long-ranged archers, magic 
 users, or close-range melee brawlers. And every creature in Heroes IV has at least one distinctive 
 ability, if not two or three or four, so between your armies' abilities and the ability to include 
 multiple hero characters in the same war party, you should have no trouble creating a powerful, 
 versatile army or two.            Monsters don't look bad... but they don't look memorable.  
   

  As in the previous games, your armies will do battle with both wandering monsters and the armies 
 of enemy heroes. Heroes IV's combat system has a number of minor changes that are intended mainly 
 to make combat a bit more balanced. Previous games in the Heroes series had been criticized for 
 allowing too much momentum; that is, if you could create a powerful enough army, nothing could 
 stand in your way. Heroes IV's system of simultaneous attacks (in which most creatures attack and 
 take damage from each other simultaneously) and its new line-of-fire aiming for ranged units mean 
 that you can't continuously blunder forward and pummel your enemies to death. Fortunately, your 
 forces can call upon their own special abilities in combat, including the ability to cast some 
 magic spells, just like a spell-casting hero. Heroes IV retains Heroes III's basic system of magic 
 (both in combat and out of it) and improves upon it by slightly rearranging some older spells and 
 also letting heroes become grandmasters in a specific school of magic. Through your many fights 
 and raids, your heroes will accrue great numbers of experience points that will in turn lead to 
 new skills. There are lots of old and new skills in Heroes IV -- more than enough to help you create 
 distinctive heroes.   

  While your heroes will definitely seem more distinctive, Heroes IV's graphics unfortunately aren't. 
 The series was previously well known for its colorful, storybooklike portraits and units, which 
 often had humorous animations and funny sound samples. Unfortunately, most of Heroes IV's characters 
 and units are represented by the same kind of generic-looking rendered sprites that appeared in 
 Might and Magic VII and VIII. Heroes IV's creatures don't look horrible; each is represented well 
 enough to distinguish them at a glance, but they simply aren't the memorable and occasionally goofy 
 denizens of Heroes I and II. Instead, Heroes IV features stiffly animated 3D-rendered sprites that 
 seem less like fantastic mythical creatures and more like stop-motion movie monsters. Outside of 
 battle, Heroes IV's town and overland graphics are clearly intended to paint a picture of a brightly 
 colored, otherworldly realm, but the same sort of density that makes exploring Heroes IV such a 
 joy also makes it occasionally difficult to look at. Heroes IV's overland areas sometimes seem 
 too bright and colorful -- there's too much going on at one time on the screen. This can make distinguishing 
 important objects from background scenery needlessly difficult, and, along with the game's equally 
 busy-looking interface menus, may make the game seem overly complex to new players.           Heroes 
 IV has more than just a new coat of paint.    

  But just about anyone -- Heroes veterans or newcomers -- will be able to appreciate Heroes IV's sound, 
 especially its music. Heroes IV's sound effects aren't the least bit noteworthy, and many were 
 recycled directly from the previous game, but the soundtrack is another matter entirely. Developer 
 New World decided to split the difference between the synth instrumental soundtrack of Heroes III 
 and the operatic soundtrack of Heroes II and include elements of both. While you're in battle, 
 you'll hear the same sort of stirring, yet subdued, background music as in Heroes III -- percussion- 
 and string-heavy instrumental arrangements that suit battles well. And while you're exploring the 
 overland map or developing your town, you'll be treated to the same sort of lush opera music that 
 graced the Heroes II soundtrack.   

  Heroes IV has a lot of new additions, but ultimately, it still plays like a Heroes game. That's 
 definitely a good thing, as the Heroes formula clearly stands the test of time in Heroes IV and 
 is every bit as enjoyable as it's ever been in previous games. An overly cynical (and not entirely 
 accurate) way to assess the game would be to call it a revamped version of Heroes III with a new 
 coat of paint -- or many, many layers of paint. However, it's really to New World Computing's credit 
 that the developer was able to incorporate so many new and interesting features into this sequel 
 while still making sure it kept all the core elements that made all the previous games so great. 
 Heroes IV is clearly a worthy successor to the series and has very clearly been worth the wait. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bubs_C_Stand
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I LOVED heroes III. I play it frequently to this day. I can't believe what they did! They merged 
 like three castles into two! They completely screwed up the combat system. NO UPGRADES FOR UNITS!! 
 You have to choose between the units you can build. Only like four creatures per castle. Units 
 can go out by themselves. There is EVERYTHING WRONG WITH THIS!! They upped the skill levels to 
 5? What were they THINKING!! I prefer Heroes III graphics ten times over these. They weren't cartoony, 
 they were beautiful and really improved their surroundings. The thing about IV is that It has an 
 intense LACK of detail that III was amazingly great for. Even Heroes V was not as good as III. 
 It went back to the traditional style of III but was almost exactly the same... only less. The 
 graphics were sweet but gameplay wise nothing beats Heroes III. They just screwed with the system 
 so bad. Heroes II built off of original and made it better and fuller, Heroes III built off II 
 and captured everything great. Heroes IV said "Y'know what screw that!" Thats my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the series since Heroes III and I can say Heroes IV didn't disappoint me! Quite a 
 bit of features and graphics makeover brought a flashing new feel yet down-to-the-roots addictive 
 gameplay back. I really appreciate the 3D sprites from their beautiful render down to their iconic 
 animation. The enchantingly gorgeous music is a perfect accompaniment to the makeover too.
  
  In terms of the gameplay, some may think that the new feature of your heroes as playable combat 
 units may break the game as they level up into god-like modes, it actually presents a refreshingly 
 new and interesting gameplay tactic to the old formula. However, the only gripe I have is that 
 the six main campaigns featured here are not inter-related as like Heroes III, thus fans may get 
 a little dissed with the lack of a deep story.
  
  But nonetheless, Heroes IV is still a solid turn-based game for the strategy fan. Holy awesomeness.
 
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hagge15
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  It's the first time I play a "heroes game" and I will buy more of these games. Cause I found it 
 very fun, but sadly a little bit to hard sometimes, especially at campaign. The "battles" takes 
 also too much time during multiplayer.
  
  Otherwise heroes IV of might and magic are very fun, challenging, strategic, exciting and has many 
 ways to play. Sadly some heroes' are unbalanced, magic heroes are much better than "might" ones 
 (I think) .
  
  As I said, the game is very hard. And pretty hard to pick up for beginners. The campaign nearly 
 always results in cheating
  
  
  
  Sound: 6/10
  The sound failures. It sounds strange and to high, it cuts through your eyes like tinnitus.
  
 
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics are totally OK. Some fire effects, for example, does look strange.
  
  Gameplay: 
 8/10
  The gameplay are awesome, but campaign is too hard and multiplayer takes a very, very, VERY long 
 time to play.
  
  Controls: 9/10
  The controls are good. But its not excellent either.
  
  
  Final score: 7.75/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I used to be addicted to Hero III and when this version came out, I really had 
 my doubt. But to blame it for not totally resembling its epic predecessor is both unfair and idiotic. 
 Though I missed Hero III for a while, I still felt encouraged by this one's biggest achievement, 
 that is the Hero Character himself. Among many other changes made to game play, this is the reason 
 why it's horribly critised by some loyal Hero fans. Now that the Hero can travel ALONE without 
 any troops at all and can even be grouped with other Heroes to form a fighting team up to 7 of 
 them, the game obviously makes a strong impression of renewal. If your hero is high level and well-equipped, 
 he or she can take the whole army on their own. In fact, I believe this is the main idea in this 
 release since there are many quests in both campaigns and scenarios that require your hero to act 
 alone or cooperate with other heroes without their whole armies. Well, does it really spoil the 
 pure strategic quality of HoMM series? It's up to you to decide but for me, a Hero is not always 
 necessarily a military leader. Besides, every hero now can gain a new rank in their primary skill: 
 Grand Master and can gain up to 5 specialization of either Might or Magic or Mixture between two. 
 With a lot of new skills adding to the possibility, you can create your own distinctive character 
 in each scenario. You may also find some of built-in character in the campaigns memorable, like 
 Emilia Night Heaven or the Dark Priest who masters both life and death magic. Other factors of 
 the game, especially music, is very impressive and helps creating such a other worldly realm. And 
 though you may want to point out several minor drawback, HoMM IV is still a wonderful sequel to 
 an already epic turn based strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreemanKoC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  I love it!
  In my opinion, the best change is that you can create armies with multiple heroes and/or no creatures, 
 or armies with no heroes. So the battle doesn't end when the last creature dies (I won several 
 battles thanks to my heroes) , and creature armies can also clear paths from enemy when you have 
 no heroes nearby.
  
  My favorite factions are Haven and Necropolis. I love Haven for the Angels; they are very powerful, 
 and they have the most movement points amongst all creatures (this can be really useful by a pursuit) .
 
  Necropolis' best option is the Necromancy skill. First of all, I always get a Necromancer and 
 make him/her gain Grandmaster Necromancy; this ensures an endless supply of vampires after battles 
 against living opponents.
  The other best skill, along with Necromancy, is Summoning in Nature Magic, especially at Grandmaster 
 level. Getting creatures for free and without any efforts, that was impossible in the predecessors!
 
  
  So, I think this is a great game, and I can only recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  The long running Heroes of Might and Magic series is something of a legend today. Being a long 
 time fan of the series, some might consider it strange that I missed out on Heroes IV when it was 
 first released, but I finally gave it a shot and I can say that I think it's a good game, but it's 
 not a great game liked its predecessors.
  
  Apparently after the Armageddon's Blade was recovered in the first Heroes III expansion the world 
 was destroyed when that blade, and another one clashed. Refugees from Erathia fled into portals 
 to new worlds to rebuild, and Heroes of Might and Magic IV centers around what happens during this 
 dark time on one of the new worlds. The campaign setup is similar to Heroes III, in that the story 
 unfolds over the course of multiple short campaigns. The unfortunate thing is that the campaigns 
 aren't at all interesting, not even the stories.
  
  The gameplay was changed quite a bit for the fourth game. Apparently New World Computing felt that 
 the traditional Heroes gameplay was getting stale, so they introduced heroes that can fight, mobile 
 monsters on the adventure map, and more. I liked some of the new features, for example you can 
 command armies without heroes. This may seem strange to some, but I personally felt that it was 
 a nice feature.
  
  Heroes can attack now (and die too) , but their attacks are for the most part useless. Fortunately, 
 a hero's stats and abilities can improve your armies in battle, so they have not been rendered 
 useless. You also need heroes to capture buildings, and recover artifacts, so you'll never end 
 up playing a game without them.
  
  I liked how the creatures were made mobile in this installment. You now have to watch where you're 
 going since if you end up stopping your hero too close to a neutral creature you may very well 
 end up getting in a battle you can't win.
  
  Heroes IV has a map editor, but no random map generator. The lack of a random map generator wasn't 
 an issue fixed by any of the expansions either, decreasing the game's replayability significantly.
 
  
  The graphics have in some ways been improved since Heroes III, and have in some ways gone downhill. 
 The adventure map is nicer looking, but that's it. Town screens are absolutely appalling to look 
 at in Heroes IV, as they look very amateur when stacked up against the town screens from Heroes 
 III. Battles are even worse as they're now isometric, and the monster and hero designs are terrible. 
 Some battle animations are also jerky. I can't help but feel that the artists rushed this one.
 
  
  The audio is mostly great. The voice work is good, and the sound effects are as good as they always 
 have been, but the music is where Heroes IV truly shines. Heroes IV has some of the best music 
 in the series, and its score is just as great as the beautiful (but more atmospheric) score present 
 in Heroes II.
  
  Heroes of Might and Magic IV is an interesting installment in the series. The campaigns are fairly 
 crude, as are some of the graphics, but some new gameplay elements are decent. There are an awful 
 lot of negative aspects to the changes, but none of them are really game breaking... they just 
 prevent the game from feeling like a part of the Heroes series. Is it worth playing? Yes, Heroes 
 IV despite being a bit rough around the edges is a fun game, it's not as great as Heroes II or 
 III, but its still worthy of the Heroes name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmso12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  the ability to build up heroes and use them on the battlefield was a much needed innovation. likewise, 
 the ability to send out drone armies of monsters simplified some of the more annoying aspects of 
 the game. finally, caravans was the the cherry of perfection on the top. these three advances offered 
 a whole new way to play the game, and removed ALL of the annoying micromanagement required to hire 
 monsters from creation buildings outside of town.
  
  graphics are kind of cheesy, but who cares? as usual, the sound is exquisite.
  
  this game 
 is the best in the series, bar none. too bad 3D0 closed down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  3DO is known for milking their franchises to the extreme (witness the Army Men fiasco) , but one 
 franchise that has always remained strong and true to its roots is the Heroes of Might &amp; Magic 
 franchise by New World Computing. Heroes of Might &amp; Magic IV is the latest offering in this 
 wonderful franchise, but does it hold up to the greatness of earlier offerings? It seems that lately 
 NWC has been the red headed stepchild of 3DO, what with all the layoffs and the disintegration 
 of the venerable Might &amp; Magic RPG line. Has NWC still got what it takes to make a great turn-based 
 strategy game?
  While much has changed in the game from the much heralded latest iteration, HoMM3, and while the 
 game is still missing many of the features that the Heroes of Might &amp; Magic III Complete package 
 offers, HoMM4 does remain true to the series in many ways while still changing the game enough 
 to stay somewhat fresh. The single player experience is better than ever, especially the campaign 
 mode, which offers a better story than previous editions could muster.
  
  The opening movie of HoMM4 ends with the destruction of the HoMM3 world and the escape of several 
 heroes and their people to a new world. The six campaigns tell the stories of these heroes. The 
 stories are interesting to an extent and do add some flavor to an otherwise plain fantasy mold, 
 but the storytelling technique is rather stale. A bit more dialogue better interspersed, a few 
 nice cut-scenes here or there, and the story really could have been a big plus for the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start with this: Every time I saw Heroes IV in some PC magazine, it said that the game 
 is bad... So is for almost every person I asked... Nobody didn't like it... I just couldn't understand 
 that... If you ask me, I think that it's amazing... It's like almost every single thing that I 
 didn't like in Heroes III is fixed in Heroes IV... I'm playing the game for a very long time, and 
 I can't get bored playing it... The graphics is better than in heroes III and so is the sound... 
 There are many things that are new in this game than in the last three parts, such as: Troops can 
 walk on the map without the hero leading them... Heroes are fighting in the battle (not only as 
 spellcasters, but as warriors also) ... Troops look better... No upgrading the units... And much 
 more... I can honestly say that the game is perfect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krekar
Rating: 4.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  this game is the worst 1 in the heroes series. it really sucks and those ppl who gives it 10 hasnt 
 really played the game!! This is a crappy game.
  so serously guys, u really cant give this the highest rating! 1 is more fitting.
  Heroes 5 is 
 way better in every way!
  This heroes have none of the qualities a hero game needs. The graphic is outdated, the gameplay 
 is boring after 5 minutes playing, the sound is pretty bad but, the base mixing is OK. If you want 
 a good strategy game, buy heroes 3 or 5 or just buy an age of empires game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  What ever happened to comprehensive bestiaries and immersive creature detail? Since the first HOMM 
 was released with its whopping 10 MB Hard Drive space minimum technology has provided us with nearly 
 a million fold the storage and yet there's still just as little insight into the nature of a unicorn 
 as ever.
  
  It seems like video game writers at this point are all the product of video game writers, and very 
 little else. Heroes of Might and Magic V has a great sense of balance as a strategy game, but, 
 like the latest installment of the Elder Scrolls series, Oblivion, it offers no fodder for afterthoughts 
 or further inspiration. It's one pull up from being DOOM, and what's worse there's no excuse. The 
 video game market has become one of the major commercial entertainment mediums out of the four 
 consolidations left, along with cinema, popular music, and hack-literature respectively. What does 
 a person have to do to get a thought around here that's more than equal to a PIXAR formula. Don't 
 get me wrong, I can enjoy a well tailored suit, but the rate of fashion ought to be able to equal 
 that of its governing technology. Who wears burlap anymore? I got a good look at about 200 random 
 people today, and I didn't notice anyone wearing burlap.
  
  So where's the progress? The focus tends toward the dollar sign, we know that. A studio wants the 
 attention of a serious producer, they drop the plot and ask them how much money they want them 
 to gross. But don't people want to feel inspired by their $50 software? Isn't there a demand for 
 interest and vibrance? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of the Heroes Of Might & Magic series for a long time. The first one was 
 good. I played the second one so much that my life was essentially put on hold for months. I didn't 
 care for the third one very much. I felt it didn't advance the series very much and the same annoyances 
 that I overlooked in the second game were more glaring in part three since I was expecting more 
 of an upgrade. I honestly went into playing part four with less than high expectations. I didn't 
 know if the series had hit it's peak with part two and was just going to put it on coast from now 
 on (cough.... EA Sports....... cough) . On top of that, 3DO closed it's doors and reviews of this 
 game had me scared to put too much expectation into playing it. OOPS!!!
  
  This is the best strategy game I have played in years. The best way to describe this game is that 
 they take everything you liked from the previous game, got rid of most of things you didn't like 
 and improved on just about everything across the board. The graphics have received an overhaul. 
 Sure it's not THAT impressive when compared to games coming out these days, but it's hard to deny 
 the beauty in Heroes Of M&M 4's visuals. They are very colorful and in a much higher resolution. 
 The music is top notch, as usual. Some of it actually goes a bit over the top and takes you out 
 of the game experience, but it's all of high quality. There are TONS of hours of gameplay here 
 (once again, like usual) , as there are six seperate campaigns to play through plus tons of stand-alone 
 maps. That's a good thing because the game is so much fun to play.
  
  This game is looked at as the worst in the series by many people. While I can see why some people 
 wouldn't like it (the gameplay is a little slower & the CPU is less agressive) , I don't understand 
 the backlash of hate this game has received. This gameplay has undergone a lot of changes and most 
 of them are for the better. If I went into all of the changes here, I would be writing for hours. 
 The point is that this is a huge step up from Heroes Of M&M 3. This is that next step I had been 
 waiting years for the series to take. It's a shame that New World Computing had to close it's doors 
 for good. Hopefully UbiSoft will keep the series going in the right direction. There is a huge 
 & rabid fan base for these games and I, for one, don't want this series to go into the tank. I 
 highly recommend this game to any fan of the series and any fan of turn-based strategy titles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be a great hit when it would be released but some things never happen. 
 This game was never considered to be great like the previous parts of heroes of might and magic. 
 But I think this game deserves a lot. I feel very sorry for 3DO that they went bankrupt. Without 
 this company the atmosphere in heroes will never ever be the same. I am sure the 5 part is not 
 going to be greater then the 3 part of heroes of might and magic. We miss you 3DO.
  Now back to the game. The game starts out with kind of weird entry where the whole world is destroyed 
 by the 2 blades coming together in a fight. As youll play the campaign youll understand the storyline 
 better. I am not going to tell you about the whole story too long and too complicated you should 
 find it out for yourself.
  The game itself has a few campaigns and a lot of maps (Actually I think you should download more 
 maps to play) that you can play. The hotseat mode in the game has not changed since the previous 
 series (my favorite part about all the heroes of might and magic series) this mod should keep you 
 and your friends busy playing this game. The only bad thing about this game is that it does not 
 have a random map generator. Everything else is great.
  The game has 6 races Chaos, Order, Life, Death, Nature, and Might. Most of the castles are balanced 
 but still soon youll find out that Order is the strongest one of them because of their mind magic 
 which is impossible to get rid of if your monsters dont have the mind immunity ability (this is 
 my favorite castle) . The main thing in this part of heroes of might and magic is that your heroes 
 are able to participate in battles!
  Heroes in this game are way more important then in all the previous games. Here they can learn 
 more skills and abilities. But the problem is that it is way harder to learn magic because you 
 have to have the ability to learn in and it takes a bunch of experience to learn it. Heroes get 
 very strong with each level and with the artifacts you give them. There is a bunch different artifacts 
 in this part more than in any other one.
  The graphics in the game are nice for 2002 and the gameplay is almost the same. If you are a heros 
 lover than this is a game I recommend you to get!!!
  
  We MISS YOU 3DO !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixiedust35147
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  This game is spectacular. The moment I started playing it, which I just started it like two days 
 ago, I have been hooked. This is actually my first Heroes of Might and Magic game to play.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. I haven't seen the other games myself to compare the difference. 
 I have read that the third one is fantastic.
  
  It was a little difficult to understand what to do for the first fifteen minutes or so. It didn't 
 take long to pick up on everything though. It is actually a simple game to follow you just have 
 to have the time to play, because once you start playing the game you don't want to stop.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Heroes 4 is much like the others but only with better graphics. It has almot the same monsters 
 the past titles hd , only offering some more and removin some.
  
  Like the others it has 2 gameplay modes. A turnbased RTS mode where battle your enemy ,m and a 
 Turn based 'move your hero around' mode where you capture resources , get new mines or even capture 
 enemy castles. The rest is exectly like in the other Heroes games.
  
  Afteryou finish the campaign , its like you done everything , so you wont go back to play the game 
 again much. But creating a map of your own is a fun tool where you can spend some exttra time making 
 your own map.
  
  If you like Turn Based games or like Fantasy stuff than its worth the try , but for most people 
 , it wont be much fun. And if you over played the other Heroes titles and got bored of em , same 
 will happen to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenwaiy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Great game that changes some of the aspects of HOMM 3 
  It has some great stories in the campaigns although there are some romances in there, and the scenarios 
 are good too.
  
  It is quite a hard game, and like it this way, but you need time to know how to play well and the 
 technique you'll use changes from scenario to scenario and this what make this game superb. AND 
 FINALLY' THE ANGEL IS ONCE MORE THE MOST POWERFUL UNIT YOU CAN GET and follow by the great BLACK 
 DRAGON
  
  For those which never played this game, I recommend this game, but if you never played one of the 
 previous HOMM, it will take time to adept yourself
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ronaldmp3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Una de las elementos positivos del juego es la variedad de caracteres con las que se puede escoger, 
 podemos personalizar a los heroes con artefactos y conocimientos q sean de nuestra eleccin.... 
 ah! y las batallas... lo que a mi me gusta mas, soy muy buenas y ademas si te da pereza o no sabes 
 batallar bien puedes automatizar para q la cpu pelee por ti, la captura de construcciones es un 
 buen aspecto del juego no tienes q construirlas, solo las de la ciudad.
  
  y lo malo.... bueno
  en las batallas a veces cuando mandas a atacar a una unidad directamente 
 al enemigo, si esta esta muy lejos tienes q esperar a q llegue, lo malo es q tambien se basa en 
 turnos, no puedes atacar con dos unidades a la vez.
  
  cuando quieres crear criaturas tienes q esperar cada turno para que esten disponibles y no puedes 
 crearlas segun tu capacidad de recursos.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohamadelyafi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I just don't understand the ones who said that the HOMM 3 is better then the fourth. Personnaly, 
 playing this game was in the beginning so so. I told myself ``choosing between two kinds of creatures 
 is a wrong idea`` but now, WOW! what a good idea that was. The new capacities that the hero can 
 learn now is something incredible in this game. and now, your own hero can fight in battle, as 
 a mage, a druid, a berseker, an archer, a thief, death knight etc.... 
  
  It is quite a hard game, and like it this way, but you need time to know how to play well and the 
 technique you'll use changes from scenario to scenario and this what make this game superb. AND 
 FINALLY' THE BLACK DRAGON IS ONCE MORE THE MOST POWERFUL UNIT YOU CAN GET!!!
  
  For those which never played this game, I recommend this game, but if you never played one of the 
 previous HOMM, it will take time to adept yourself
  
  Good luck
  
  Mo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepearson85
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  This game is comprehensive and expansive, but just leaves you hanging on certain points.
  The points are hard to describe and will not strike you instantly, but this game just does not 
 leave you as satisfied as the heroes games before have, whether it is the not fully realised graphics-or 
 oddly modded gameplay, I simply feel this is not up to heroes standard.
  But on a lighter note, heroes fans and every one else will love this game, it is engrossing and 
 will keep you occupied for several weeks, and the multiplayer options make for great fun with friends.
 
  Good game, would be great if it didn't have the precedent of Heroes of Might and Magic 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dziuggy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  waited for this game forever as heroes of might and magic 3 is one of the best games of all times. 
 however 4 th version lacks exitement of the heroes 3 so found my self going back to play heroes 
 3 again and again. so it was some what disapointing having to wait years for this game and see 
 that it is not better that its prequell.. must play for heroes fans though. if you never played 
 heroes of might and magic series before i would not recomend this game to you. start with heroes 
 3 and then you can try this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liverpoolmania7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  For me is was a great game. yes it does have bugs, but these bugs are hard to come across. the 
 only way i found the bugs was by looking at a bugs page on the net. so dont do that;)
  
  It has some great stories in the campaigns although there are some romances in there, and the scenarios 
 are good too.
  
  one big flaw. on an even map, for all players, and on champion difficulty the game is far too easy. 
 the AI is not allowed to access the market and thus is very weak. that is the major flaw but otherwise 
 a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  Once a dying genre, roleplaying games have had a Renaissance of sorts on the PC over the last year. 
 Though the newfound interest by both developers and gamers is good, most of these new RPGs have 
 been hybrids, instead of true representations of the genre. Games like Diablo, or instance, are 
 really hack-and-slashers with some RPG elements mixed in, not complete RPGs. Might and Magic VI, 
 from New World Computing, comes from a long line of some of the best RPG's ever made and promises 
 a true roleplaying experience just like the good old days. To say the least, the game delivers 
 on this promise tenfold.
  
  The whole idea of roleplaying is to experience an alternate reality on a grand scale. You start 
 with a group of characters who are basically rookies, and grow with them as the adventure proceeds. 
 In Might and Magic VI, you have four characters (two less than previous Might and Magic installments) 
 who can come from almost a dozen races and classes, with different attributes associated with each. 
 Unlike single-player RPGs (like Daggerfall) one of the most important aspects of the party RPG 
 is creating a balanced party, with the right mix of fighters, spellcasters, and thieves. Again, 
 Might and Magic delivers here, with party balance one of the top priorities of the game.
  
  Be warned, this is no casual game. It requires over a hundred hours to complete, and plenty of 
 time will be spent reloading from a previous position because your party got wiped out by a seemingly 
 invincible group of monsters. The payoff is big, however. There is no greater PC gaming experience 
 than defeating the final monster in a true RPG; it is comparable to finishing a novel. Several 
 quests abound in M&MVI, adding to the experience and adding time to the length of the game.
  
  In the old days of RPGs, gameplay was first and graphics and sounds were second. Today, any 
 game has to be graphically stimulating to make it in the marketplace and Might and Magic delivers, 
 offering graphics well ahead of any other RPG to date. Missing, however, is any sort of 3D acceleration, 
 and low framerates are the consequence. Sound is good by RPG standards, but lacking compared to 
 the best 3D shooters and adventure games now available. Still, compared to such games as Battlespire 
 and Descent to Undermountain, Might and Magic VI is head and shoulders above the RPG competition 
 in both the graphic and sound fields. The sounds and visuals don't come at too steep a price either; 
 a Pentium 133 can surely handle this game.
  
  The ads for Might and Magic VI claim that the game is a rebirth of a legend, in a time when RPGs 
 seem dead. Though the latter part of that statement is undoubtedly false (with games like Baldur's 
 Gate and Fallout 2 coming out) it is undeniable that this game is a true descendent of the great 
 Might and Magic games, which were the watermark of RPGs during their time. Anyone looking for something 
 more than run and shoot should definitely give this game a try. There are plenty of worse things 
 to do with 100 or so hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought Heroes III when it first came out, and it remains to this day my all-time favorite game, 
 bar none. I have played more hours of Heroes III than there are quarts of whiskey in Ireland, if 
 you can follow that.
  
  I gnawed my fingernails to the quick in anticipation for the release of Heroes IV, and sweated 
 through the first delay of the release date. Finally the game was released, and I bought it the 
 first day it came out. I loaded it up and tried to get right into it. And tried, and tried... and 
 tried. Within a week or so I had shelved it and there it sat for these past few years.
  
  Recently, I started playing Disciples 2 (which is excellent) , and for some reason it gave me the 
 urge to pull Heroes IV back off the shelf and give it another go. Perhaps my tastes had changed, 
 I thought, or maybe I had missed something the first time around. Perhaps I would discover the 
 *real* Heroes IV this time, the one I had eagerly anticipated several years ago. Wouldn't that 
 be nice? I re-installed the game, applied the patches, and loaded it up.
  
  Man, is this game dry. Gameplay really leaves something to be desired. While Heroes III had the 
 formula down cold, this one seems to be thrown together and released with little or no quality 
 testing. It is not balanced all that well, and many of the elements do not make much sense. The 
 new magic system , and the skill system, take steps backwards, and sometimes seem quite silly. 
 ( Why does the "healing" skill affect spell point regeneration, and have nothing to do with curing 
 troops? Wouldn't the game be better served with more logical concepts?) And the business of throwing 
 the hero into the melee does absolutely nothing for me. Each hero is the carrier of spells, special 
 skills, and combat adjustment factors affecting his troops; strutting the heroes out into the center 
 of combat, just does not work for this game franchise. It's a real fly in the ointment.
  
  And the game seems unfinished. The graphics on the adventure map are very pretty, but the hero 
 movement drives me nuts. He gallops toward the edge of the screen, and the map snaps into position 
 as he nears an edge. It does not scroll with the hero remaining centered, as it should; the hero 
 moves relative to the stationary map, and the map snaps to accommodate his movement as needed. 
 It drives me up the wall, and it's hard on the eyes. It has the feel of something that is unrefined. 
 And, for instance, at the conclusion of a combat sequence, you get this abrupt segue that just 
 seems like it was jammed in sideways, because something needed to fill a gap. It's not smooth. 
 Little things like that make the game feel less than polished. The graphics and artwork for the 
 adventure map and the interface had the potential to be quite breathtaking, but I couldn't get 
 past the annoying snap-movement of the map when traveling across it, and the interface was not 
 altogether streamlined.
  
  The combat is pretty disastrous. After the beautiful, gamepiece-style combat of Heroes III, where 
 every move sequence had ramifications, and the animations and effects had that certain satisfying 
 "crunch" (it was like chess and poetry combined) , the combat scene here falls flat. They seem to 
 have scrapped a combat system that really had class and style and mathematical beauty, simply for 
 the sake of reverting to an isometric playing field. Change only for the sake of change, really. 
 It loses everything that made the previous game a joy to play. Combat in this game is cumbersome, 
 confusing, annoying, and frustrating. And I preferred the artwork and animations of the previous 
 game's combat system, hands down; in this game, going with the whole isometric-view theme, they 
 went with figures that look more like something from a real-time strategy game, rather than the 
 colorful, charming, often cartoonish characters that worked so well in Heroes III. They could have 
 went far with newer, higher-res versions of the same style of combat representations. It would 
 have been much preferable.
  
  And furthermore, *what happend to the catapult ? ? ?* Siege combat in this game is the silliest 
 thing about it. To get into a town, your guys walk up to the fortification and beat on the walls 
 (presumably with their swords or claws or whatever their weapon may be) . Also, the arrow towers 
 are gone. Instead, the defender's ranged units sit atop these goofy platforms behind the walls. 
 And you can do a melee strike on enemies behind a wall as long as both parties are right next to 
 either side of the wall. Compared to the elegant, sensible style of siege combat in the previous 
 game, this has been degraded to the point of being outright pathetic. It really points to the obvious 
 fact that this game was rushed out the door and onto the shelves. There is no way that anyone in 
 their right mind would have honestly thought that the siege combat system was an improvement on 
 (or at least comparable to) the previous game's.
  
  Some Russian company has obtained the rights to make Heroes V. I hope they take into consideration 
 the elements that made this series great. It was Heroes I, II, and III which defined this franchise. 
 Heroes IV was definitely a step in the wrong direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italianu15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  Might or Stronghold
  
  --Units you Should Choose --
   Bird
  
  --Why you should Choose Them --
  Bersekers 
 and Centaurs are needed even if you don't want to build them
  
  Nomads -They are fast units and they have very much movement and have the First Strike Ability
 
  
  -Cyclop - They are Ranged Units and That's Good, Area Attack , They Attack All The Targets Friendly 
 or Foe who are in that zone
  
  -Thunder Birds - They have Thunder Strike wich is very good, that means after the normal attack 
 they attack whit a thunder
  and they grow up 3 a week. That's Very Good.
  
  The Might Units are the best units in the game...... they have magic resistance and the most powerfull 
 units 
  
  The Units have very low Prices even a Behemoth is 2750 gold and he is more powerfull than an Angel, Bone 
 Dragon, Devil, he is the second creature most powerfull after the Black Dragon and the Tunder Bird 
 cost only 1800 gold and 2 mercur
  
  ====Very important hint for Might Heroes ===
  If you have Breeding Pens and Grandmaster nobility the creatures in the town will grow up every 
 day and Thunder Birds, Cyclops, and Nomads.
  
  That doesn't matter if they have only 10% Magic Resistance but the others don't attack you from 
 the begining !!!
  First you will have to make a hero 100% Magic Resistance ,Whit Grandmaster Magic Resistance or 
 whit Neener Invulnerable Cloak.
  
  ===What i realised===
  Whit Breeding Pens and Grandmaster Nobility you make creatures grow every day and you will have 
 very big army.
  In The Others Hints how to beat the Might is a fake.... Because you don't attack them from the beginig 
 aren't you ?
  
  ==This Hint is How To Cheat whithout Cheat== How ?
  
  First you go to campaign editor and open the map you wan't to play and the colour you want... then 
 you can make changes like : near your hero will be a Adamantium Armor or Shield ,Neeners Invulnerable 
 Cloak ..... then exit and save the changes.
  
  This Hint is available for all units (Death , Life , Order , Chaos , Might)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Yez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:00 am PT
Review:  Heroes IV of Might and Magic is a strategy-game filled up with spells, fantasy, stories and combat. 
 The game has many creatures, campaigns, spells, heroes and worlds to discover, but after playing 
 it many times its getting boring and uniform. It is much better than heroes III and also more difficult. 
 The music and sounds is not that good but not so bad. The graphics is good because of the 3D effect. 
 The campaigns is a little hard if you are a beginner, but very exiting. The new skills are cool 
 and described great. After all i think this is a game that nearly everybody would love. 
  
  WARNING: Do not play this game if you have no brain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 4:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a real cool strategy game and it rocks!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You get to choose from a cool collection of players, you can play until reach the highest 
 level.
  
  Graphics: this game looks like the 90's game. But still the players look great and the areas are 
 cool.
  
  Sound: The sound is this game is really bad because there is a little songs and little soundtracks.
 
  
  Value: You can play for hours until you reach the highest level but my biggest problam with this 
 game is that there is no online multiplayer mode.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game rocks and this game is good for strategy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davinde
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:12 am PT
Review:  I just love the entire Fantasy thing, I dig Role Playing Games alot. This however is not RPG but 
 the monsters are quite simular, I just think that this kind of games are like Command and Conquer 
 games just with Monsters instead of Soldiers and Machines... The Graphics in the Game are not that 
 good but if you look at the earlier games in the Series it have evolved alot since the first time 
 I played... the gameplay in the Heroes series are great and you can get a lot of new maps, and 
 also design your own maps if you are into that.... Nothing else to say then I thing the game is 
 great a kind of Adventure and Strategy game in one packed...
  
  I not good at writing rewiews but I'm trying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  I want to say why you should buy this game instead of the older nr 3.
  
  1. Heroes can now fight, and this is one of the best new things in this game ever. I Homm l ll 
 and lll the heroes just was just sitting on their fat ass while looking at their army fighting 
 for their lives, but in nr lV they fight and die with their army. Heoes can even travel alone without 
 any army backing him up. You can even threat this game as a rpg while using only one or two heroes.
 
  
  2. Now monsters can travel by themself, and you can create caravans, which transport monster from 
 or to towns, and also from creature dwellings.
  
  3. Many say that the castle sieges has becomed badder, but after my opinion it has only becomed 
 better. For the first, in the older games the defender just used to let the archery towers do all 
 the job, but in this game there are no towers, but you can get some by building a castle and then 
 place your own men up in them. Also the attackers have lost their catapult. The catapult made it 
 to easy to infiltrate a town, but you can use other strategies instead, such as using poison or 
 playge or whatever it was called to force enemy out since they will slowly lose life. Also you 
 cant shoot over walls exept from if they stand near it or ontop of a tower. In old day you could 
 just shoot over walls and do their full damage.
  
  4. The graphics are much better than in the previos versions, such as hommlll with it cheap 2d 
 graphics.
  
  Buy this game if you like turnbased strategy games!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littledark1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  This installment of Heroes out-does all the others in graphics, gameplay, quality and longevity. 
 But as always, I'll find fault in it.
  I love the fact that your character class changes depending on what skills you have, and having 
 Heroes in battle is a stroke of genius. The same goes for being able to get armies without heroes 
 in to move across the adventure map.
  Anyway, I did find it annoying that there was a Might alignment and not a Magic one, that would 
 have been great. My only other complaint would be about upgrading creatures. Although all the creatures 
 have their own special skills, I think that being able to upgrade some of them would be a fantastic 
 addition.
  Apart from those minor things, it is a top-notch game and I can't wait to see how the next one 
 out-does number 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  There seems to be this petty little ridiculous fight among Heroes-players about which game in the 
 series is the best. If you are a 1337 h4rdco3r player, then you "should" think that Heroes of Might 
 and Magic III is the best, for some reason, and play all these weird home baked mods that make 
 the game play like Heroes IV (?!) . To me this seems strange since the game first of all, is really 
 old by now, and not to mention that it included a lot of unnecessary features that the developers 
 have gotten rid of in Heroes IV. Heroes IV also adds a bunch of new features that were sorely missing 
 in the older games, which make the gameplay more streamlined and simply makes the game better.
 
  
  Heroes IV plays more or less exactly like the previous games, although there has been some slight 
 changes - as mentioned most of these are for the better. Among the most noticeable are that your 
 heroes now can participate in combat. To me this is a great idea and something I've been waiting 
 for, since it makes absolutely no sense that the heroes just stand there looking stupid while their 
 armies to the dirty work (like they have done in earlier games, including Heroes III) . The sieges 
 of the towns are now a bit more boring, since they've done away with the catapult and the turrets. 
 This, however, is about the only change that is for the worse when comparing this game to Heroes 
 III.
  
  A lot of the unnecessary spells have been taken out of the game, spells that you couldn't use, 
 like, for example: Firewall and Quicksand to mention two. Now you can use just about every spell 
 in the game and make an actual strategic difference in a battle, including the low level-spells! 
 And finally, FINALLY! You now don't have to march your hero all the way back to a town to get more 
 creatures (or hire a stupid hero that acts as a courier to get them for him) . The creatures can 
 now move on their own (although understandably they can't claim mines or towns for the kingdom) , 
 and you can create caravans from/to dwellings and towns. This is one of the best new implementations 
 which makes the game easier and more rewarding to play. I can't stress enough how wonderful it 
 is to finally get rid of the dumb upgrading of the armies which was nothing if not a huge pain 
 in the behind.
  
  The graphics are nice-looking, better than Heroes III's graphics with its silly character design 
 and animation, although not quite as cool as Heroes II's beautiful hand drawn pixelated visuals. 
 There is an opening cinematic that sends chills down my spine even though I've seen it many times, 
 it's fantastic and opens up for the game brilliantly. The sound is good, and so is the music. The 
 problem with the music is that you grow sorely tired of it after a while. Thank God for Winamp 
 and mp3's though.
  
  Difficulty-wise the game is just like the earlier games in the series, really hard. I played through 
 the first four campaigns on the middle difficulty which was challenging on a good level. My Heroes 
 IV-cd went missing for a number of years though, but I recently found it again so I completed the 
 last two campaigns on easy difficulty since I found them too hard on normal. A problem with the 
 campaigns is that you always get to fight the same sort of enemy throughout the missions. When 
 you play the Death scenario for example, you'll always face other Death enemies. This means you'll 
 never get to use that Death Call spell that only affects Life creatures etc. Which is a bit unimaginative. 
 A very nice addition to the campaigns is the focus on a story with passages of text that you can 
 choose to read or click away. I thought this was a bad idea first and clicked the text away, something 
 I regret since they are really well-written and really immerses you into the game.
  
  All in all, Heroes IV is a great mix of many genres of games. A scenario takes ages to finish so 
 there is hours upon hours of gameplay to be found here. I'm going to try to get ahold of the expansions 
 now, and play them until Heroes V is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 31, 2004 12:57 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this review on October 30, 2004. First of all, some background. I have played a lot 
 of HoMM I, from Nov. 1995 until Nov. 1996. Then, I played a whole lot of its sequel (HoMM II) , 
 from Dec. 1996 until Dec. 1998. And then, I played a titanic lot of HoMM III (and all of its expansions) , 
 from March 1999 to May 2004. I can easily conceive that I'm still going to be playing at HoMM III 
 in 2009. 
  
  So, I had high hopes for HoMM IV, which I purchased at the beginning of April 2002. I had very 
 mixed feelings about it from the start. Some new features were very cool, but there were enough 
 mediocre features to make me revert back to HoMM III after a few weeks.
  
  What I really did not like :
  
  1. The too yellow interface is much too bland & bright. HoMM 
 III was a darker grey, and at least, in HoMM II, you had the choice between the dark gray & the 
 bright yellow. Why impose a uniform interface color, when 5 years earlier, you had allowed the 
 user to freely select his favorite color? Why do some designers feel the arbitrary necessity of 
 imposing their preferences on the faithful fans who buy their sequels?
  
  2. The hand-painted, 2D inner cityscapes were superb in HoMM III. I still have the creeps when 
 I enter the sinister Necromancer's domain. But in HoMM IV, for the sake of "evolving" to a pseudo-3D 
 cityscape, the designers have conceived ugly buildings that are aligned on a hill's levels, like 
 cans of soup & sauce on kitchen shelves. Exquisitely hand-painted 2D beats rudimentary pseudo-3D, 
 all of the time.
  
  3. The thundering pseudo-opera music, in some castles, is so offensive that I leave ASAP. Again 
 : In 1996, they gave me the option to turn the opera off, and 5 years later, this freedom of choice 
 has been removed. Why?
  
  4. To add insult to injury : there are very few large maps offered. They seem to have financially 
 cut corners on map-design. And as any fan of the first three titles know : awesome, amazing maps 
 will attract & captivate you far beyond the pretty features. 
  
  5. The map editor is much more cumbersome & complicated to use than the one in HoMM III. It took 
 me HUNDREDS of hours of tiresome toil to build fantastic maps.
  
  6. I loved the style of the sieges in HoMM 2&3 : it was castle-siege. Now, it looks & feels like 
 you're assaulting flat forts and door-panels. I miss the good, old catapults.
  
  But... 2 years after its 2002 release, I have finally fallen in love with the game. That is mostly 
 due to those hundreds of hours of map-design I have invested. It took me a lot of hard work to 
 obtain those huge, complex, immersive maps I wish I had had in April 2002.
  
  I can't wait for 2005's HoMM V. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 14, 2004 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic 4 is a new step in the Heroes games. NWC opted to allow heroes fight 
 in battles this time around, and mixed their unique castles into larger castle types with multiple 
 choices for what you build, that dissalow the construction of other buildings.
  
  Most of the core gameplay remains the same, as the game is still turn based, and you still fight 
 with stacks of creatures in combat.
  
  Many cosmetic changes have taken place in this new edition of Heroes, as the map is now three dimensionally 
 rendered and the battle sequences now take place on a 3d battlefield with real depth to it.
  
  New castles, creatures, heroes, and items make their way into the forray of common Heroes fare, 
 and as usual it all mixes in very well. The new campagins are also extrmemely well done, and you 
 can loose lots of time simply asking for "just one more turn" while playing them.
  
  Core gameplay still stays the same, and is your typical turn based strategy game with mystical 
 setting. You control heroes and their armies, and have them take over mines, pick up items and 
 gold, recruit creatures, and capture towns and castles. You then build up those castles and towns 
 and use them to train more fantasy creatures to fight for your heroes in your armies. Then you 
 take over the world with your powerful armies. When you fight others, the game switches into a 
 battle screen wherein you take turns moving your armies to fight eachother, and when the battle 
 is over your hero gains experience. When your heroes gain experience, they gain levels and skills, 
 which allow them to cast stronger spells, become stronger fighters, earn more money for your kingdom, 
 explore more of the map, etc. etc. 
  
  As in all heroes games, the music and graphics really help get you into the fantasy feel of the 
 game, and generally speaking, its not a game you can just stop playing. Your always left wanting 
 to take just one more turn.
  
  I'd go into more detail, but i could go on for days, so im cutting this review short.
  
  As 
 3D0 has now gone the way of the dinosaur, and NWC with them, its going to be hard to find any Heroes 
 game for quite some time. SSI who bought them when they went under has hinted towards releasing 
 a compilation of the Heroes games and making a sequel, but we'll have to wait and see if they come 
 through on that. If you can find it, its worth the bean to pick it up. This game does not dissapoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2004 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Heroes III is so much better than this sequel. Besides the bugs, the combat is less satisfying.
 
  
  The heroes actually fight in the battles now, but they die so often it is more annoying than useful. 
 The castle sieges were a lot of fun in 3, but in 4 they made a lot of changes that take the strategy 
 away. Anyone next to the castle wall can hit anything on the other side of the wall -- this makes 
 no sense. The larger battlefields aren't as big as they seem since several inches around is just 
 decoration and you can't move there. The over-land graphics are brighter but they also border on 
 too "bright and busy." The interface wastes lots of space with blank areas that that could have 
 been better streamlined. 
  
  In single player maps, there are some nasty bugs in which the enemy AI just sits in the castle 
 and does nothing. Not much of a challenge.
  
  Everyone who playes Heroes III is aware this game was pushed out the doors before the publisher 
 went bankrupt. If someone gives a high score to IV it simply means they haven't played III.
  
  Buy Heroes III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2003 11:08 am PT
Review:  A real fun time-killer with very addicting gameplay.
  
  I've been playing HOMM4 off and on for since it was released in early '02, and I just picked up 
 the 2 available expansion packs last week after hearing 3DO went bankrupt. This brought the game 
 up to a new version 3.0 making an already great game even better.
  
  Now I must say there are 2 ways to play this game; one is to play it like HOMM's 1 thru 3 and take 
 the serious strategic fighting route in which you plan all your moves and upgrades out in advance, 
 working your way around the map with several disposable heroes fighting the computer controlled 
 characters, and concentrating on the Strategy Game side of things. 
  
  OR you can play it like I do and concentrate on one or two Heroes and treat it like an RPG and 
 wander around the map uncovering new items and looking at all the pretty animated eye-candy and 
 listening to the cool sounds and music and fighting for fun but do not concentrate too much on 
 the strategy element of the game. This is definitely my preferred method of play (on Easy of course) 
 and I know the hard-core gamers will have a fit with that, but for me it's the most fun way to 
 play this game, and believe me that 3+ hours will have ticked by without you even noticing. I guess 
 for me it's not so much important "winning" the game, but the fun time I have while exploring the 
 map.
  
  One warning was that I do remember when I was first starting out I remember thinking that the gameplay 
 in this game seems VERY bizarre, and it took me a while to understand what the heck the game was 
 about, but after a couple hours, all of a sudden I just GOT IT, and from then on it was very natural 
 learning how to play.
  
  So in summary if you are looking for one of those "Just-one-more-turn" games that can be played 
 how you want to play it (after you learn to understand the gameplay) , give this a try, especially 
 at the cheaper prices you can find it at today. Between the original game and the 2 expansion packs 
 there are tons of maps and campaigns that can be re-played over and over again. (Just don't forget 
 to apply all available patches)
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
