-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Might and Magic V: Tribes of the East
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/heroesofmightandmagicvtribesoftheeast/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features a good amount of new content, including over a dozen solo missions.
 New Stronghold faction and its interesting blood-rage battle mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Identical in style and tone to the original Heroes V and its first expansion.
 Extremely difficult.
 New features such as sacrificial altars are of questionable value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 708 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 16, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Orcs and bloodlust feature strongly in Tribes of the East, a derivative and difficult stand-alone 
 expansion for Heroes of Might & Magic V. 

  Orcs top the marquee in Tribes of the East, a stand-alone expansion pack that is expected to put 
 the finishing touches on the Heroes of Might &amp; Magic V franchise. If not, it probably should, 
 because even though this add-on is loaded with new content, none of it is particularly interesting. 
 Serious fans of the series will likely enjoy getting a look at the new Stronghold faction as well 
 as taking on the tough missions in the three new solo campaigns, but everyone else will shrug and 
 go back to waiting for Nival Interactive and Ubisoft to get going on Heroes VI.  

  For the few uninitiated out there, Heroes of Might &amp; Magic V is a continuation of a classic 
 fantasy-themed turn-based strategy series. However, Tribes of the East is a long way from essential 
 to anyone aside from the Heroes V hardcore. Those who pick it up will find themselves with a solid, 
 if derivative, series of new maps and enough gameplay tweaks to make the production feel a teensy 
 bit fresh. The hook here is the new Stronghold faction, which consists of various types of orcs 
 ranging from warriors to shamans, along with other wild humanoids such as goblins, centaurs, and 
 cyclopes. The Stronghold fits in well with the existing factions and sort of resembles a mash of 
 the Sylvan and Dungeon groups. Characteristics are somewhat familiar, at any rate, despite the 
 fact that the overall personality of your grunts is not quite as cherubic as the former yet not 
 quite as evil as the latter. (These guys wear grey hats.) Creatures are also similar. For example, 
 the new bloodeyed cyclops plays much like the Sylvan treant, and the orcish recruits generally 
 match up with their Dungeon dark-elf counterparts.  

           Crank up the blood rage to make a handful of orcs fight like an army.      

  The story 
 also centers around more of the same. The three campaigns carry over from last year's Hammers of 
 Fate expansion. You start by guiding an orcish rebellion with the Stronghold in a single mission, 
 move on to the Necropolis faction, go back to the orcs, and finally head to the Academy. Influence 
 from the Dark Messiah of Might &amp; Magic action game can be seen throughout the campaigns, especially 
 in the Necropolis section, which revives that game's big baddie, the necromancer Arantir. Thankfully, 
 you don't have to have any familiarity with Dark Messiah to understand what's going on here.  

 
  But you do have to be awfully good at Heroes V. Each of the 16 maps featured in the trio of campaigns 
 is crushingly difficult. Challenges are extremely tough to take on from the very beginning, which 
 forces you into a lot of repetition. Steadily moving through the maps and battling packs of monsters 
 that guard the usual treasure hoards and magical artifacts is flat-out impossible, given that you 
 never seem to pick up enough followers or have all the resources to buy ready reinforcements. You 
 really can't waste units in even a single battle on most maps, unless you enjoy spending a lot 
 of time and energy rebuilding troop strength. So, say hello to trial and error, not to mention 
 the frequent reloading of saves. This really bogs down missions; even roadside battles with garden-variety 
 gryphons and liches can take so much out of your armies that you're constantly backtracking for 
 reinforcements, or even worse, hitting the end-turn button to zip through weeks to reload recruits 
 and shrines. It all combines to feel cheap instead of challenging. Nival may have been looking 
 for a quick way to lengthen the levels and make everything feel tougher, but in actuality it simply 
 amped up the tedium.  

  There isn't really anything new here in the core gameplay, either. Missions are awfully formulaic, 
 with objectives, landscape, enemies, encounters, and resource caches that will give you major-league 
 dj vu. As usual, you clear maps one road at a time by killing monsters at crossroads to open 
 up new sections of each map. There are some new creatures, some new spells, some new sets of magical 
 artifacts, and a revamped promotion scheme that provides alternate upgrades for units (though most 
 aren't exactly imaginative) . There are also a handful of new multiplayer and scenario maps, but 
 you'd really have a tough time telling the new stuff from the old without the feature list sitting 
 in front of you. The look and sound of the expansion seem to be exactly the same as in the original 
 Heroes, too. Yet with all that said, there remains something in this formula that is still extremely 
 addictive. Even with the repetitions forced on you by the harder missions and the same-old, same-old 
 overall design, it's hard to stop playing... at least if you're a Heroes V fan who hasn't gotten 
 enough yet.  

           One barbarian orc hero charges into battle.      

  Only two additions are genuinely noteworthy: the Stronghold's blood rage and sacrificial altars. 
 The former is admittedly kind of nifty because it causes orcs and their pals to go into berserker 
 freak-outs in battle that can improve their damage resistance. However, pluses and minuses rise 
 and fall during battle depending on whether you're hitting or being hit, so the benefits seem to 
 jump around pretty much uncontrollably. This trait nicely personalizes the orcish lot, but it's 
 hard to see how you could employ it tactically. It never seems to do much good in combat, considering 
 that it gets knocked down with every successful enemy attack, when you skip a turn, or even when 
 you engage in ranged combat.  

  Sacrificial altars are much more useful, at least in theory. Now, instead of lugging around low-level 
 troops who are good only for cannon fodder, you can off them in special locations in exchange for 
 hero experience points. This would have been helpful in the original Heroes missions. Here, though, 
 you simply don't use the altars that much because the battles are so much tougher. Ditching a bunch 
 of wimpy skeletons and peasants to buff a hero can seem like a great idea, but the round or two 
 that these grunts may buy you in battle can actually save your butt on numerous occasions. Also, 
 if you do a lot of exploring and take on most of the available battles, you'll jump up the level 
 ladder so quickly that you'll have no need for any sacrifices.  

  All of which amounts to new levels, harder difficulty, and not much else. This is pretty much the 
 template for second expansion packs these days, so Tribes of the East is at least somewhat trendy. 
 Nevertheless, you can't praise this mediocre add-on for fitting in with the cool kids. Nival should 
 have finished the Heroes V series on a higher note than this.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Tribes of the East is a great expansion pack! Don't believe the negative reviews. It is true that 
 this is the same old Heroes V, but the expansion pack offers a hoard of new additions and nice 
 enhancements that make the game a lot more enjoyable.
  
  To start with, there is a great new race that fits the picture quite well. The barbarians have 
 always been one of the trademark races in the Heroes universe and finally they make their return 
 in Heroes V. The race does not use magic, but instead their heroes have warcries which might not 
 be as useful as real spells, but they supplement well another novelty to the game - barbarians' 
 blood rage. Blood rage is like a meter with levels to all barbarian creatures. They gain blood 
 rage points when attacking and killing and they lose points when waiting, defending or dying. Once 
 they go up a level, their stats are increased. It works quite well though it puts you always on 
 the offensive when playing with the orcs which makes some fights a bit harder than they should 
 be. The alternative is to move your units forward and backwards, one square at a time, which shifts 
 you further back the ATB, putting you in a less favourable position compared to just waiting and 
 frankly, it is just stupid.
  
  Another great idea is the return of set items from Shadow of Death. Old artefacts now form sets. 
 Wearing some of the artifacts give you extra bonuses to the effects artefacts already have. Wearing 
 the whole set gives you even more extras which often are unique and cannot be provided by anything 
 else.
  
  The third major addition is that all races have been added a second upgrade to all their creatures. 
 Second-upgrade creatures are roughly as tough as first-upgrade creatures and one must choose between 
 the second or the first upgrade. And choices are not always obvious - a second-upgrade Vampire 
 has greatly increased stats, but it looses it vampirism ability; a second-upgrade Rakshasa attacks 
 all nearby enemies, but it looses the no retaliation ability. You have to trade. Fortunately, second-upgrade 
 creatures come from the same upgraded buildings and you can always switch units between first and 
 second upgrade... for a price.
  
  Some old creatures have been changed as well. Thanes, for example, no longer have the overpowered 
 stormstrike ability when upgraded. Instead, they get a flamestrike ability with 15% chance to be 
 activated that produces a arc-like flamewave, damaging units behind. Regular Djins now cast only 
 defensive spells while upgraded ones cast only offensive ones, etc.
  
  Apart from those, there are other small additions that make the game more interesting or easy to 
 play. There are new spells in all schools. Some of them are plain dull like the wasp nest summoning, 
 but others are neat (vampirism) . There are new skills and abilities. Sacrificial altars from Heroes 
 3 have returned where good races sacrifice artefacts and evil ones sacrifice units for experience. 
 (If I recall right, Gamespot states that you can only sacrifice units which is a mistake.) Furthermore, 
 there is one tiny interface improvement which, IMO, makes a huge difference - the small icon on 
 top of your castle picture in the adventure map interface now shows if you can build something 
 or not and additionally it shows when you have constructed all buildings in a city. This makes 
 managing cities in the later stages of the game on big maps much easier and faster. Touching details 
 like this leaves a really nice impression.
  
  All this is combined in a really nice single-player campaign, divided in several parts. The campaign 
 is much better than Hammers of Fate or the original Heroes V with interesting levels with many 
 varied objectives and nice twists. Unfortunately, this campaign also tends to get boring a little 
 before it ends, just like previous Heroes V installments and at the same time, the story still 
 feels rushed towards the end.
  
  Overall, Tribes of the East is a great expansion pack that combines all the features of Heroes 
 V so far (except campaigns) in a stand-alone title at a budget price. The only reason why it won't 
 get a higher mark from me is because it is the second, and not the first expansion pack of Heroes 
 V. I always look bad on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicfan91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  First, when I first read the Gamespot review, I did not believe it! Did the guy that wrote the 
 review played as much as an hour? Did he play the previous installments before trying this one? 
 I am quite disappointed in this show of amateurism.
  
  
  The main critic appears to be the campaign missions that are said to be too hard...
  Well, it 
 is a second expansion, so it is no wonder that the missions are harder (in fact, if you finished 
 the original game and the first expansion Hammers of Fate on normal difficulty, you will not go 
 through as much trouble as the review would make you believe) . Did everybody complain when Blizzard 
 shipped Brood War? The campaigns were very hard in this expansion, though...
  
  On the contrary, it is good to see a challenging campaign, once in a while, else there would be 
 nothing of interest for someone who has been successfully playing through the previous game and 
 expansion.
  
  
  Well, aside from that, the new contents are pretty standard, even though there is more new concepts 
 than in Hammers of fate : 
  - a new Race, the Orcs. They are a Might race, totally focused on attack (as opposed to the defensive 
 Dwarves of Hammers) . They do not have the standard 4 school magics, but instead have "War shouts", 
 which increases the orc soldiers' abilities, by increasing their Rage points, and optionally dealing 
 a secondary effect. Rage is the special ability. Rage points are gained by a unit when it attacks, 
 or retaliates, but the unit looses a few points when defending, and a lot more when waiting (see 
 why Orcs are bent on attack?) . Rage points give two advantages to the orc troopers : they absorb 
 damage (when hit, the unit will lose rage points but take much less damage) , and they give combat 
 bonuses that are different depending on which unit they apply.
  
  - neutral armies : before the expansion, the neutrals monsters were of the same unit type (possibly 
 you could find several stacks, some of the unupgraded version, and some upgraded version) . Now 
 you will find "armies" of neutral monsters, meaning that there will be different units in it (for 
 example : marksmen, champions, griffins and priests) .
  
  
  - alternative upgrades : each unit now has a new upgrade that you can choose instead of the standard 
 one. Nival has made a great job here, by making sure that the two possible upgrades are quite different 
 for each unit, allowing multiple new strategies. This is in my opinion what makes this expansion 
 shine, since you have by now, 8 races with (7 units +7*2 upgrades) each (~150 units, + the neutrals) , 
 and they managed to balance things quite correctly.
  
  - some new items (sacrificial altar) / stat boosts, but that is secondary
  
  - the equipments 
 sets : as in many RPG, the most powerful equipment items for your heroes have been grouped into 
 sets. By equipping several items of the same set, you get some bonuses. There is one set dedicated 
 to each race, meaning that you get additional bonuses if you equip your race's set. Sets can really 
 make a huge difference in a battle. 
  
  - some new spells in each magic school (but only a few are useful) , some spells have also been 
 modified.
  
  - Improved IA, especially considering the neutral stacks
  (IA heroes are still quite dumb in normal)
  
  - a new bunch of skirmish/multiplayer maps + 
 5 stand-alone scenarios (nothing to get excited about) .
  
  
  Well, to sum up my opinion, this is a good, well balanced expansion (better than Hammers anyways) , 
 but do not enter the Heroes series with this one! It is aimed at those who played the previous 
 expansion, and the original game. And for these people, this game is well worth playing. You will 
 like the orcs, or you will hate them, but in the latter case, the alternative upgrades have changed 
 the existing races so much, that you will have a good time trying them all! And if you like challenges, 
 try the campaigns on heroic difficulty!
  
  On the sad part, do not expect a compelling story-line in the campaigns, but I guess you are used 
 to it now...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpenrose
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Love the Barbarian setup. Wasn't sure at first, but the more I played the more I really loved it.
 
  
  There were also some really good additions to the upgrades for the other groups. Would like to 
 see elves and dwarfs worked in more - but guess you have to limit some things or it gets bogged 
 down.
  
  I also enjoyed the great follow up to the story line from Heroes V, as well as the possibility 
 that was left open for a continuance of the present story.
  
  I guess I am one who likes the turn based, strategy type gaming - so this really fits my niche. 
 My real complaint would be in the lack of solo play maps that are included (yes I know about the 
 generator) . Guess that's an expectation that is carried over from the original Heroes games.
  
  Hope they keep up the good work and produce more in this series. I must be addicted or something..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulik1112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  While GameSpot show no mercy to this gorgeous game, I'll not exactly at GS"s side for this one. 
 Heroes IV's expansions were mistakes, I read the review, I played these expansions, and I agree 
 that they sucked. But this TotE is different. This is a recap:
  
  Pros: 01 new (exciting) faction, good graphics, low system requirement, 2 upgrades for each unit, 
 sophisticate skills/spells, random map generator
  
  Cons: Boring campaign, Low quality voice-over, some graphical glitches, dumb AI, navigation problem
 
  
  If you can, rent or try it first before the purchase, since some of the game's issues are annoying 
 and you needs to make sure if you're ok with that.
  
  The graphics are excellent, and probably the strongest point of the game. The system requirement 
 is surprisingly and event will accept a motherboard-integrated video chipset (like Intel 945G) . 
 Units are fun to play around with, and some of them are very well designed (e. g. Titan) .
  
  The biggest problem is the dumb AI, which means you won't have lots of time playing solo before 
 getting sick of the AI. For example, AI defeat treasure-keeping monsters, but never grab these 
 treasures. 
  
  Another problem is navigation. Since the map is fully 3D and is quite large, it may take times 
 to navigate to where you were at two turns before, for example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camftw
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V: Tribes of the East is the best Heroes game in my opinion to date.
 
  Tribes of the east allows another set of upgrades for creatures, which adds additional playtime 
 and more strategy to be involved.
  Also their is also a new race of Orcs, which function much differently than the other races. Orcs 
 use blood-rage in combat unlike other races and blood-rage can be pretty enjoyable to use as for 
 it's benefits.
  Also Tribes of the East comes as a stand alone file so you don't need the other disks to install.
 
  One of the things i enjoy most about this game is the skill and abilitys your hero can learn, 
 their are a dozen of different trees of skills and abilitys your hero can learn as they level up, 
 which makes having the hero itself a lot more fun to have especially in combat. (I know this was 
 avaliable to the Heroes V)
  Adding these extras to a already great game makes it a excellent game which is a lot better than 
 you may think at first.
  The Gamespot review of this game is shocking : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Being a long time fan of the Heroes of Might and Magic series I was fairly underwhelmed by Ubisoft 
 and Nival's fifth installment which hit shelves several years ago, heck I even liked Heroes IV 
 more than I liked V. Heroes V was littered with bad AI, small maps, an irritating camera, a generic 
 high fantasy story, and setting along with other flaws. Tribes of the East essentially delivers 
 more of the same, but with a couple new features and a new faction to at least make this stand 
 alone expansion feel somewhat worthwhile.
  
  The campaign to Tribes of the East finishes off the story started in Heroes V, and continued in 
 the first expansion Hammers of Fate which introduced the Dwarf slash Fortress faction. Tribes of 
 the East's campaigns, just like its predecessors, are painfully generic, and dull lacking the heart 
 that the campaigns in Heroes II, III, and even IV had.
  
  Tribes of the East being an expansion and all doesn't feature any radical changes to the formula, 
 it does introduce some new features, however. The most significant feature is the Stronghold faction, 
 long time Heroes fans will recognize the Stronghold faction since it's been the Barbarian faction 
 since the original game... unfortunately Nival unsurprisingly applied a generic High Fantasy race 
 to the Stronghold, so we've got Orcs... because, you know, only Orcs can be barbarians.
  
  The only other new addition worth noting is the "alternate upgrades" for each faction's units. 
 This is likely an attempt at making the game a bit more like Heroes IV, but in the end it failed 
 miserably. The alternate upgrades aren't really alternate at all, for example if for the Knight 
 Faction you build the upgraded barracks you can train both Squires and the more neutral aligned 
 Vindicators which somewhat defeats the point, doesn't it? If they were aiming for a Heroes IV approach, 
 they should have closed off some unit and structure choices instead of giving players reskins of 
 units they already have. That feels a bit redundant to me.
  
  Heroes V still lacks a decent number of scenarios, and to top it off there's only a couple new 
 ones, and the scenarios from Hammers of Fate are nowhere to be seen. You've still got skirmishes 
 and random maps you can play against the computer, but since the AI is so painfully idiotic there's 
 no real point. To top it off the camera problems from Heroes V are still present, while switching 
 the camera mode to "Classic HoMM Style" helps, it can still be a pain to look around subterranean 
 areas.
  
  Visually there's nothing new in TotE except for the stronghold faction, and they look nice enough 
 to fit in with the four factions from the original game plus the Fortress faction from HoF. Audio 
 wise there is finally new music applied to the snow terrain added in HoF, plus new music for the 
 campaign and Stronghold faction but as I've come to expect from Heroes V, it's nothing special.
 
  
  I did not get into Tribes of the East, it's certainly the best edition of Heroes of Might and Magic 
 V, but when I can just play earlier installments in the series I see little point. Still, if you 
 enjoyed Heroes V there's little reason to not purchase Tribes of the East, but if you didn't Tribes 
 won't change your opinion... I know it didn't change mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chops21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  As always a highly addictive game. I have been a fan of the series since part 2, and this is the 
 best add-on and complete game with enough new creatures and castles since HoMM 3. The new Orc faction 
 is enough of a change to keep your interest, and is a fun challenge to learn new techniques for 
 battle without magic. The addition of a "choice" between upgrades in ALL caste types is a wonderful 
 add-on as well. My only negative comment is that there is still a lack of "cooperative" multiplayer 
 play. It would be great to have more pre-made maps of this nature that were abundant in HoMM 3, 
 or else be able to choose a cooperative mode in the "create a map" section.
  
  Overall though, great buy! Can't wait for the next installment in this exciting line of games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a throwback to the days of Masters of Magic and Master of Orion. New World computing 
 has done a great job with this series, offering addictive gameplay and great graphics. Try the 
 hard settings, they are a real biznatch.
  
  Have fun!
  
  
  As graphics get better, who cannot help but notice that the female lead in most of our video games 
 has a great ass. It all startred with Lara Croft, who was so pixelated, that mentioning it was 
 a little embarassing. Now, especially with HD, gamers of all ages can apprecitate the gratuitous 
 tang that comes with our video games nowadays. So I propose that the next evolution of video games 
 will be Video Game Porn, or VGP as I will be the first to coin this phrase. I cannot wait for the 
 corny plots and bad music.... oh wait video games already have that.
  
  Don't fear the reaper.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veekangel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Well worth the investment for fans and great for new players (set it to easy already Gamespot if 
 it's too challenging, sheesh) . It comes equipped with a new faction (Barbarians!) and new set of 
 upgrades for each of the other 7 existing factions. The Barbarian (Stronghold) faction is a great 
 throwback and a well-loved sight. The bane of magic and all about might is well done here. The 
 barbarians come in with their own version of skills that include magic busters instead of magic 
 enhancers and 2 new offensive skill trees just for them. The first racial set is a rage based mechanic 
 that increases attack power of creatures based on damage dished out both individually and as a 
 team. The second is Shout which is to enhance the warcries that Barbarian heroes can do in place 
 of magic. Warcries also dish out damage directly or indirectly by increasing attack power and morale 
 etc. The mechanics both work well and make the Stronghold faction a mighty damage-dealing beast.
 
  
  Also included is the map editor and a new stock of very challenging and well-rounded campaigns 
 making it a true stand-alone. For the price you really cannot go wrong. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordjab
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why this expansion got such bad reviews. It is much better than the 2nd expansion. 
 The story is fun, and the difficulty brings you back for more....... which is what you want from 
 a rpg. All together, Heroes V is one of my favorite RPGs in years. My only recommendation.......... only 
 play if you have many hours to play. Each expansion is a good 40+ depending on how hardcore RPG 
 you are. 
  
  I've never played multiplayer but thats not really what this game is about. Its about a hardcore 
 RPG in a storyline. If you need more, the random custom game generator against the computer are 
 good enough. But again its a long rpg game (turn based) . It's not for everyone. Easily worth a 
 8.0. I love it, but it's not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealdj813
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Some of the best games are challenging and I can't help myself but shake my head, close my eyes, 
 and picture myself stabbing whoever put that review in from gamespot adding negative comments to 
 these games for extremly difficult/painful I can do nothing but laugh at a game review getting 
 a bad review comment because it wasn't made for complete console kiddie idiots. Why don't you go 
 ahead and put chess in the negative difficulty section while your at it. I cannot stand stupid 
 people. *points at whoever put the comment reviews for this game*
  
  I'm giving this game a 10 just to help offset the idiots that review these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallesh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Yes , this is the Best Heroes Expansion in HoMM Saga, but WARNING THIS GAME is NOT FOR BABIES if 
 you do not have the capability to play Heroes Games don't play this game and cry afterwards.. instead 
 go play mario series just like the Gamespot Reviewer. .
  
  As a standalone Expansion (which is really nice for new gamers who wants to begin Heroes) , it adds 
 a whole second upgrade tier to every town which extends Heroes 5 tactics and strategies even more 
 , the unique new orc faction, new set items , new campaign &amp; scenario maps, vs vs... Also with 
 the retail Game Version 3.0 it is bug free , and quite stable in both single and multiplayer.
 
  
  Difficulty is just right , if you can't play even in Normal difficulty , there is an Easy option 
 for players.. This is a gift for Heroes fans and a great game for the other non-fan gamers.. Really 
 a great and tasty game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Sorry to brag, but I'm an expert on HM&amp; M. I've been playing the whole series since 1995, and 
 I have edited its maps for thousands of hours of work.
  
  Sure, there are weaknesses : they have been discussed to death on the UbiSoft forum.
  
  I'm 
 sorry to be so harsh, but it is obvious that the GameSpot Tribes of the East reviewer doesn't know 
 what he's talking about. The A. I. could be better, but the game is so gorgeous (if you have the 
 computer to run it in its full glory) .
  
  I will score it at 10, as a symbolic protestation against that amateurish review, written by an 
 obvious HM&amp; M n00b. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbennett08527
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  T of TE expansion has tons of new (and fun) content, and a modest price, making it one of the best 
 valued Heroes expansions I have seen. For the reviewer to criticize an expansion pack for being 
 derivative and maintaining existing style of gameplay makes no sense -- it's well established that 
 any expansion is pretty much more of the same. The reviewer also complains about the difficulty 
 but what does that say about his familiarity &amp; skil with the game? Right, he doesn't really 
 know how to play it and therefore was not the right person to review the expansion. Giving it a 
 5.5 is patently unfair to publisher Ubisoft and developer Nival, as well as Heroes fans who might 
 not get a Heroes 6 because of poor sales of TofTE; prospective buyers, please give this expansion 
 a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Warrior_66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Whoever Gamespot had reviewing Heroes 5 Tribes of the East (H5TE) he sure did allot of unnecessary 
 bashing.
  
  I've personally been a fan of the Heroes franchise since Heroes 3 and I must say the H5TE finally 
 seems to beat it (I know allot of players won't agree with me here) .
  
  However first things first, the new Orc factions in H5TE fits right in with the other races. It 
 has some interesting units as well as an interesting racial ability called blood rage. The blood 
 rage ability allows all Orc units to accumulate rage points as long as they take aggressive actions 
 (e. g. attack, retaliate cast) , these rage points result in a higher damage resistance.
  
  H5TE also implements a new upgrade for each of the already existing units for each faction. This 
 really puts a little more depth into the game play and although not all of these upgrades are that 
 dissimilar to their originals, they do allow for more variation in each army. This way for example; 
 two Haven players could face off having different armies making battles allot more interesting.
 
  
  The difficulty in H5TE is indeed quite hard which will be especially true to players new to the 
 franchise. Especially in the campaigns you'll find the enemy having quite the advantage over you. 
 The experienced heroes player however will find that H5TE is a great challenge but definitely not 
 to hard.
  
  Besides a new campaign which involves the new Orc faction, the necropolis and academy faction H5TE 
 also has a couple of new single player scenarios and multiplayer maps. This all adds up to a bigger 
 replay value but none of the new maps really stand out.
  
  Multiplayer wise H5TE still isn't the game you'll play online quite as much as you would play an 
 RTS game. The hotseat option and duel mode however make up for this.
  
  All in all H5TE doesn't bring that many innovations to the game and its high difficulty is a definite 
 pain in the behind for any new players hoping to explore the franchise. The game does however expand 
 on the proven ground giving fans who where hungering for more exactly that.
  
  8.5
  //
  Lone_Warrior_66 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  In this stand-alone add on, the developers have tweaked and fixed various aspects of gameplay and 
 it makes the game more fun than any version of Heroes 5 we've seen so far. The new Orc faction 
 has some interesting unique qualities, though having to move them around the board to keep their 
 "rage" going can be tedious in a longer battle. Still, the orcs are a very welcome addition over 
 all. Additionally, I like the new units in all of the town-types. The ramdom map generator is nice 
 too. But I have to say that Tribes of the East is still far from perfect:
  
  There was a lot to like about Heroes 5 but tragically the computer AI in single-player mode (especially 
 in the overhead map mode) was really lacking. Computer heroes would walk right past powerful unguarded 
 artifacts to pick up some wood. Or the enemy hero would walk right past my unguarded castle. And 
 the computer AI seems to cheat more than it should. Is the computer AI better now? Yes, but still 
 expect some goofy AI behaviour. The AI in Heroes 3 was not perfect either, but it was pretty damn 
 great. The subtereanean levels are still hard to navigate because the cave walls obscure your line 
 of sight and the graphic engine is still a bit too sluggish than it should be. It takes a surprisignly 
 fast computer to run this game. This game is easily worth 20 bucks if you like turn-based games 
 but I'd wait for a demo if you arent sure. I agree with other reader reviews that the gamespot 
 review is really harsh on the game.
  
  Have to add one thing after playing many maps -- this edition has one notable change in the enemy 
 AI from any previous version of Heroes 5 -- the computer enmies _never_ runs away ever from a fight 
 it will most assuredly lose. This changes game strategy as long-time players will know. In a way, 
 its a cop-out because I can still run away and save my hero and troops, but the computer AI cannot. 
 Doesnt ruin the game but it is an odd change that we see only here in this version of Heroes 5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aladar_1704
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Unexpectedly so, after the Hammers of Fate, Tribes of the East brings up some much awaited level 
 of detail to game-play. For those like me that have been long-liners (starting w/ Heroes II, III, 
 IV, then V) , this is perhaps the first occasion, after H - III, where designers show some level 
 of care to the ergonomy of the overall experience. Yes, it is more challenging. No, it's not punishing. 
 The first mission is some sort of tutorial, and, no, I don't appreciate the same strategy to leave 
 the best for last as with HoF. Orcs are always fun to play with, no matter what's your preference. 
 Pluses: more variate goals &amp; storyline, more in-depth risk - benefit approach to fights overall, 
 maps are beautiful and with good exploitation of 3D capabilities. Minuses: it does tend to lag 
 sometimes, between goals, and one thing about maps is that their size is mostly normal ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_C_E-Cube
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  -Second upgrade option for every unit in the game opens up more tactical options and adds more 
 flavor to the games already impressive assortment of units.
  
  -Necromancy has been revamped; instead of getting skeletons after every battle you choose what 
 units you want to raise all the way up to tier 7, kill 7 titan? raise 7 spectral dragons (provided 
 you have enough dark energy points) .
  
  -New Stronghold faction, while it could be more original is quite interesting and fun to play with 
 a cool rage ability that gives units combat bonuses for offensive action, and a hero that can specialize 
 in battle cries that can do things like give combat bonuses instead of spells.
  
  -New maps, Artifacts and some new neutrals :)
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Tedious Campaign scenario 
 design; an issue thats been plaguing the H5 series since it began, some scenarios can take hours 
 to complete with little going on between those hours.
  
  -Inconsistent difficulty level; another issue that makes the campaigns feel sloppy in design (you 
 would think they would fix it after the third expansion) is the difficulty level that rapidly changes 
 between missions from easy to hard to easy again on the same difficulty level, though to Nival's 
 credit it does seem more consistent than the original H5.
  
  
  
  All the bugs seem to have been 
 fixed pathing AI is better, combat AI is better
  and Performance seems to have been improved as well.
  
  Overall this is a worthy expansion 
 and I feel the GameSpot review is really unfair, and the guy who made the review has no business 
 reviewing games like this, The IGN review (7.9) is much more accurate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makafri
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Heroes of Might and Magic V Tribes of the east is one of the best (in content and innovation) expansions 
 ever in the series history... can be hard if you don't know the game at all... alternative upgrades 
 gives a lot of new strategies to every town, the new race the orcs is a good innovation to the 
 clasical style of the saga... based on blood rage ability the orcs are able to encourage with diferent 
 level bonus just fighting... and yes they cannot cast normal spells but they are able to block 
 any magic school... Heroes Of Might And Magic is not that kind of game that shows all in the surface... 
 you need to good deeply to understand what is this about... the new creatures is not about how 
 they look is about what they do... the diference between each alternative upgrades are very important 
 to the strategy of the game... you can change any time the alternate upgrade depending of the circunstances, 
 just for a small price...
  
  I seriusly think the gamespot review lacks a lot in deep, knowledge and if is too hard for you 
 there is a easy level for you :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spotphilo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Sometimes I wonder what people expect from an expansion. This is still Heroes V - it is written 
 on the box. It is the same great turn base engine, very addictive, with quite a lot of new content 
 for people who want to play more Heroes V. I played Tribes of the East for over 5 hours now. Not 
 enough to write an in depth review, but enough to help people decide if it is worth their money. 
 If you enjoyed the Heroes V series and want to play more of it then go ahead. For $29, you cannot 
 go wrong. The orcs are fun to play. The goblins are the most helpless creatures ever. They no not 
 retaliate as the flee after they are being hit. But they can lay traps that can stop even the mightiest 
 opponent dead in their tracks, buying time to feather them with your centaurs. Or your goblins 
 can start a crazy dance that prevent another troop from using magic. Centaurs are the only archers, 
 a serious difficulty for the orcs who must rely on slow troops to rush the opponent's archers. 
 Warriors are tough and some upgrade can have insane amount of hit points. Slayers are also tough 
 fighters. Shaman are cool troops that can sacrifice goblins to boost their magic skills. Wyverns 
 fly and are pretty neat. Cyclops are huge hulking creature, similar to the Behemoth. If you have 
 an injured Cyclop, he can eat a goblin to heal. Very cool !!! I did not get to upgrade them (I 
 won before) , so I do not know if some Cyclops have projectiles abilities. Do not count on magic, 
 as Orcs do not use magic. They have warcries that boost the troops rage. When Orcs troop attack 
 and deal damage, their rage level goes up. At a certain threshold, they become enraged and their 
 attack power goes up (by 6 points for level 1 rage) . Orc heroes are also specialist in countering 
 opponent's magic. If you know what faction you are fighting, you can counter their magic very efficiently. 
 Overall I am very pleased with the game. My main critic is the lack of information. There are a 
 lot of new troops: Orcs and upgraded creatures from every factions and the manual does not cover 
 any of them. The Orc magic system - or warcries - is not very intuitive and I would have liked 
 to read about it before I pitch my Orcs against my opponent's demons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arturchix
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Im truly enjoying the game but Gamespot review is just a slap in the face. First, the arguments 
 of the Mr. Todd are contradictious. First he says that the game features good amount of new content, 
 including over a dozen solo missions, then he admits that the game is identical in style to the 
 original H5. LOL! This IS an expansion, right? Ill quote for you a definition from Wiki what an 
 expansion is: An expansion pack is an addition to an existing pen-and-paper RPG, game or video 
 game. These add-ons usually add new game areas, weapons, objects, and/or an extended storyline 
 to a complete and already released game. Most of your review is based on how identical and deja-vu 
 the game feels. So, you were saying?
  
  The reviewer continues that the sacrificial altars are useful in theory because if you do a lot 
 of exploring and take on most of the available battles, you'll jump up the level ladder so quickly 
 that you'll have no need for any sacrifices. I mean, wow, then we can score out all of the adventure 
 objects and leave on the adventure map just heroes and towns because you can complete the game 
 and gain tons of experience with just these two. There are also single player maps, there will 
 be also user made maps where sacrificial altars will be a nice addition.
  
  Speaking about the difficulty  that just says something about how good is the reviewer at Heroes. 
 Everywhere I see players everybody pretty much is excited with the game and hasnt complained about 
 the game difficulty. If you have problems and keep reloading, how about setting the game on easier 
 difficulty?
  
  Nival should have finished the Heroes V series on a higher note than this. I could write my response 
 twice or thrice longer but it wont change a thing. So the bottom line of my rant is  if you cant 
 get a decent reviewer like Greg Kasavin to write reviews then dont write them at all. This is 
 just not an opinion of the reviewer  there are lots of players who because of your reviews make 
 their decisions whether to buy or not to buy the game. The only indicator how good is the game 
 is the player reviews and the average vote  you cant reckon on Gamespot anymore which is just 
 sad.
  
  The game feels great and is certainly the best expansion in terms of new content so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimogre
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  There are several difficulty levels. There's easy level for beginners, normal level for normal players 
 and hard for experienced players. Maybe if the whole Heroes of Might &amp; Magic community got together, we 
 can get Ubisoft to make a BABY difficulty. Baby level would be just right for REVIEWERS:)
  I can hardly wait till Heroes 6 comes out. Maybe UBISOFT should tell us their ideas. A BABY level 
 should be included for those who never played the game before:)
  To Ubisoft, I am alright with a FORGE town as long as it's the toughest fraction to play. If the 
 tanks and machines have a 10% chance of exploding on the battlefield I would be alright with it:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Wow. A 5.5? Really? Has the main reviewer even played the other games in the series? This is a 
 HUGE expansion that not only ties the story together, but corrects every past bug I could see, 
 tosses in a while slew of little things that just make the experience better, adds a whole second 
 upgrade tier to EVERY town type, the new orc faction, has new scenario maps, and also includes 
 every MP map from the Heroes V series. A heckuva value I'd say.
  
  I really genuinely do not understand why the low rating. The graphics are good, sound is good, 
 control is spot on... I'm dumbfounded. How could you not notice the new stuff? Not to fanboy around, 
 but I'd say it's the best version of heroes ever. It even beats out my previous fave, Heroes 3 
 Complete.
  
  If there is ANY downside, I'd say it'd have to be that this isn't a good starting point for a new 
 player. It is harder than the core game and lacks a tutorial, but what would you be doing picking 
 up a second expansion without touching the rest of the game anyway?
  
  GameSpot reviewer, something is wrong with you. Go play some more Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RatTomago
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This review from Todd is really unbelievable. Isn't it his job to inform his members? I understand 
 that reviews are always somewhat subjective but this is ridiculous.
  
  With this reasoning you can bash Diablo2 lod by saying it is identical in style and tone toDiablo2, with 
  and loot that will give you a major deja-vu.
  I think we are entitled to more objective unbiased information.
  In fact this game has interesting 
 missions and really isn't that hard at all, especially not on easy mode.
  I really don't like hard games but I didn't experience any of the problems he mentions. I didn't 
 have to reload once yet in the first two campaigns.
  It is true that it is addictive but mainly because it is a lot of fun.
  
  I am astounded that 
 he says You 'll have a hard time telling the new stuff from the old because the additions are so 
 immediately obvious. For example the fact that every castle has now a new alternative upgrade.
 
  I think this has been a major undertaking because it is very difficult to keep something like 
 that balanced so that one upgrade isn't always better than the other and no castle gets an unfair 
 bonus. Until now I must say this has been extremely well done with choices depending on the strategical 
 situation and on tactical considerations.
  
  All in all I am greatly enjoying this expansion which I think is comparable with what LOD was for 
 diablo2: making a wonderful game even better.
  
  I have been a gamespot member from the beginning but I never wrote a review before. I simply didn't 
 feel the need. But this has made me suspicious ot the general quality of gamespot reviews. This is 
 simply misinformation and a job really badly done.
  
  Rereading his review of the previous expansion I get the impression he simply doesn't like this 
 series. That's ok, but than can't somebody else review them ,please?
  
  It is a shame because the job of making this expansion has on the contrary obviously been a labor 
 of love.
  
  The game also includes heroes5 so it is not only a great game but also great value.
  
  Such 
 a shame...
  
  This game deserves a lot more. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
