-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hexen: Beyond Heretic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hexen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 399 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: id Software
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Sep 30, 1995 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Depending upon how you like your brutality, Hexen may appeal to you more than Doom. Depending 
 upon how you like your brutality, Hexen may appeal to you more than Doom. First, a lot more of 
 the fighting -- at least for non-mage characters -- is close-in, and involves devices such as maces, 
 axes, hammers and other notoriously undainty implements of personal violence. Second, the sounds 
 resulting from the employment of said implements are a lot nastier. (Wetter, if I must be perfectly 
 clear on this point.) The ability to choose between heroes of slightly differing abilities (strength, 
 armor and magic, for instance) ultimately adds to the replay value of the game, and gives more 
 of an edge to Death Match games. Respawning foes make life a bit more hectic, especially when you're 
 going back looking for something you missed or failed to understand the first time. You'll be doing 
 a lot of that -- the game levels are designed in hubs of environment through which you 
 find yourself re-circulating, rather than in the linear "level" scheme of Doom. Nice visual touches 
 like swirling leaves, scattering bats, and non-critical ambient animations make the dark, 3-D fantasy 
 locales more compelling and realisticeven if you're still wandering around mystical ruins 
 and slaughtering murderous grunting things. Accessible audio track selection controls allow the 
 carnage to take place to the game's adequate soundtrack or to the noise of your choice. Slicker, 
 smarter and more stylish than Doom ---with all the killing and three times the replay value.   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SquishyNoob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I managed to get my hands on this game quite recently, after trying the demo many years ago.
  
  Even if this game is really old, I'd recommend trying it.
  It's good, when not excellent, 
 in all of its aspects.
  
  Gameplay is fine, though a little easy sometimes.
  While melee foes can be defeated easily - hit and run (or run and hit, if you're a mage) - it sometimes 
 becomes quite difficult to clear some areas with nearly 50 or more enemies attacking you.
  Items that you get through the game are extremely helpful. In my opinion, too much - one of them 
 can make you totally invulnerable for a short time. Just using a few of them for the end makes 
 the boss fight just too easy.
  With a higher difficulty, your enemies become faster and more numerous, and are more likely to 
 deliver heavy, damaging blows.
  The three classes are well balanced. With the fighter, you'll be quite strong even since the beginning, 
 you can take down enemies quickly in close range, and suffer a little less from their hits.
  The mage is the opposite: weak when in tight rooms and little space to move in; though, the ability 
 to instantly strike from afar without any mana drain comes really in handy.
  The cleric is somewhat in the middle. It's the hardest class to begin with, due to lack of range 
 and massive damage; but then, when more weapons are available, things are compensated. Particular 
 is the "serpent staff", the first weapon you get after the mace you start with. It allows you to 
 make a vampiric attack in close range, restoring a little of your health.
  
  Graphics are no doubt outdated, but they still suffice to give you the satisfaction of crushing 
 an enemy with your hammer and seeing it explode, in a burst of gore and flesh.
  Nearly all environments (made in a rough 3D) are well made and really fit the game.
  
  Sound 
 is the strongest point of this game. Music tracks are excellent, they perfectly match with the 
 various environments and set you in the mood.
  Grunts from your enemies and ambient sounds also fit the dark set of the game.
  
  In conclusion, 
 try it if you have chance to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Hexen started off seeming to be a new, fun FPS from the original PC powerhouse company: id software. 
 The principal was very nice. Multi class FPS so if you beat the game as one class.... you can try 
 it as another class. Plus they touched up the graphics, the weapons, the sound, and the enemines 
 to give the game a more "new" feel to it than what Heretic did. However, they also revamped the 
 levels themselves making what was basically super huge levels into multi levels and then spreading 
 keys randomly throughout. This made progession INSANELY difficult as you could spend hours looking 
 over the exact same spots, and having to back track to find one key. Not only that, as you did 
 progess (if you were lucky) then the levels got even larger and the key got even more random. It's 
 a shame that's the direction that the developers took because Hexen really had the chance to be 
 a hell of great game and I typically don't even like fantasy games. 
  
  So pretty much, if you like fustrating endless puzzles for levels then Hexen is an great classic 
 that's perfect for you. However if you are the standard Doom fan who hates having to hunt for keys, 
 then PLEASE don't play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  In my point of view, 'old school' is simply something of an earlier period, but does not mean that 
 it's inferior or dated. This is how I define HeXen: Beyond Heretic. This game uses the classic 
 DOOM engine (made by id Software) with some obvious changes. Everything else not related with the 
 DOOM engine was developed by Raven Software, and they really did a good job.
  
  HeXen is usually refered as the sequel to Heretic, but in truth has little in common with his precedor. 
 While both Raven titles uses the same engine, HeXen is away more complex, as you have three classes 
 to choose (Fighter, Cleric and Mage) , quests to solve, ability to jump (great feature, but already 
 present in the old Shadow Caster - Raven Software, 1994) and, with the patch applied, support 'Death 
 Matches' up to 8 players (4 players in 'Cooperative' mode) .
  
  I believe what makes HeXen unique is the possibility to choose between three classes. The Fighter 
 is fast and strong, deadly at melee combats; the Mage is slow and weak, but powerful with magic 
 and ranged attacks; while the Cleric is something between the other two. Well, you have six difficult 
 levels, three characters and a huge single-player campaign. If you think it's not good enough, 
 then you can play it in multiplayer. I recommend the 'Cooperative' mode, which allows you to combine 
 the classes and use the 'save &amp; load' feature. br /&gt;
  
  The gameplay is simply brutal, as you will fight against hundred of different monsters at the same 
 time, like the Afrit (some sort of flying imp) , the Centaur (uses a shield) , the Ettin (mytholigical 
 criature) and so. Each single monster has a different strategy to beat, but you can simply engage 
 your foes hitting without thinking, which makes your job a little more diffucult, depending of 
 the difficult level you've chosen.
  
  Each class has four weapons. At first, you can think that the Mage is better, because he starts 
 with a unlimited wand that fires a magical bolt from distance, while the Fighter uses his glauntets 
 and the Cleric a mace for melee attacks. But all the three characters are well-balanced and fun 
 to play. The Fighter will eventually find a magic hammer that can be thrown for ranged combats, 
 and the Cleric a serpent staff to hit in distance and leech life from opponents in melee attacks. 
 All three classes have mana to use their weapons. For instance, Blue Mana is used for number '2' 
 weapons; Green Mana for number '3' weapons. The forth weapons are very strong, uses both Blue and 
 Green mana. These weapons are divided in three pieces, which you'll find through the game.
  
  Quests in HeXen is fairly complex, you'll need to find switches, levers, keys and artifacts, 
 while entering in portals and visiting a variety of places. You can get stuck sometimes and this 
 will certainly annoy you, but if you pay attention and look closely, this can be avoided.
  
  There are items that you can keep in your inventory, such the Chaos Device, that when used 
 will teleport the player back to the starting position of the actual map. There are many others: 
 Quartz Flask (heals the user) , Dark Servant (summons a powerful ally) etc. All items, after used, 
 will disappear.
  
  Sound effects and Music is just right, everything fits in the game's atmosphere. Graphics are, 
 obvious, dated. You'll see 2D sprites and not 3D models like in Quake. There are some good Win32/Linux 
 ports for HeXen that adds some Direct3D and OpenGL features to the game. Controls are, in the most 
 part, restrict to keyboard, and there isn't a logical reason to use mouse, as you don't have to 
 vertically aim your opponents. Again, some HeXen ports adds a better mouse support.
  
  A great game that still enjoyable after all these years. If you can play it over the net (using 
 a port) or in local multiplayer, is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect... I have no idea y ppl rate it so poorly. First of all it is a very hard puzzle 
 game so u won't get bored. I tell u I finished this game with all characters and it took me hel1 
 lots of time... a lot of things to do to find the ultimate boss... and well that guy is very hard 
 to beat with any character except the priest. With the priest you can place 20flasks on him and 
 hes doomed: D but else it's very hard to be beaten....
  
  So I will no explain my rating ignoring that it's a stable and competitive game... So the graphics 
 are the same or even better than doom... you can take some pics and see if u don't belive me, the 
 gameplay, well what can I say here the movement is the same as all the fps in that time, u have 
 fewer weapons thats ryt, but u have 3 characters, and that reaches to 12 weapons then... and there 
 are items that u can take and use... many items. The sound well what's sound for that games? It's 
 just a music that u hear when u play and thats all.... As for the value... as I told u this game 
 worths kept.
  
  Now I didn't wanted to compare this game with doom, belive me I like doom but I did this because 
 they are almost the same and still it's a considerable gap between their ratings... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  After playing Doom 2 in early 1996, I was frantically looking for a game that's action packed enough 
 to make my fingers numb. I bumped on to Hexen and found it a rewarding experience.
  Hexen was built on Doom 2's engine. Therefore the game play or even the cheatcodes were common 
 with Doom. However Hexen's game design is different, so is its artwork. Its darker than Doom 2 
 and the design involves complex 'ethereal travels' between different levels to complete one mission. 
 that the game was well-designed is proven through the fact that I remember many of the details 
 of the game more than a decade after I played it.
  Hexen's premise, like its' very interesting predecessor Heretic, is the magical world of demons 
 and beasts. Your fighting tools include magic and sword and your enemies can be brutally tough 
 right from the early levels. I would say this is definitely not an ordinary game to be forgotten. 
 If you love FPS, you must experience this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barcapuyol5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  It maybe boring at this days to spend time playing this old school games but still for me it's 
 a classic.
  It's based on the interface of 3-D shooter of Doom, the one which predominated at the time, but 
 you can pick different races with different skills, suit your best. Though in the game you go doing 
 things and interacting with the environment by pure coincidence, it takes some time to get you 
 to know what you're doing and what you must do to complete each level or which is the right way 
 to press switches and what it does. It's the only complicated thing about the game. I would recommend 
 to play it as the all sequel which involves Heretic I and II and Hexen I, II and the expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OO7Jules
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  when i first played this game many years ago i was imediatly captivated by the world of hexen. 
 interestingly it was on of the few games that i began to enoy the more i played it. i was a fanatic 
 of the original non stop hack and slash style of gameplay offered by DOOM. At first the puzzles 
 and tricky hub system seemed to be more of a hindrance than a advantage yet i still preferred the 
 midieval atmosphere to doom's. it wasnt until i had memorized all the puzzles that i was able to 
 regain that frenzied gameplay (racing through levels as the fighter of course!) its really too 
 bad that current versions of windows dont support this classic. hopefully a conversion will be 
 made available soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Selections were limited in the early days of first-person shooters, so the notion of replaying 
 a game more than once (or twice, or ten times) was certain. A dedicated player could approach the 
 same battle from different angles or with a limited assortment of weapons (think of playing Doom 
 using only the chainsaw or shotgun) to wring every last bit of enjoyment out of a title. However, 
 the relatively linear arrangement of corridors and predictable placement of enemies might make 
 the experience tantamount to sleepwalking after a while. Hexen was especially welcome due to its 
 improved replayability, as a willowy wizard had no choice but to approach a group of growling Centaurs 
 in a very different manner from that of a brutish warrior. Hexens other innovation of tying multiple 
 levels together through a hub wasnt quite as effective as it might seem, since most of the portals 
 leading away from each central staging area still opened in the same order. However, the variety 
 provided by each characters strengths, weaknesses, and weapons still succeeded in generating a 
 unique experience with nearly every new game.
  Notable Feature: Although Hexens predecessor, Heretic, also featured a portable inventory of magical 
 artifacts, I found myself using them much more frequently in this game. The Mage was especially 
 needful of the Disks of Repulsion for maintaining a balance between his ranged weapons and the 
 tight corridors in which he spent most of his time. The Clerics unique brand of poisonous flechettes 
 were also handy with a bit of practice.
  Favorite Weapon: The Clerics Justifier called forth a handful of wrathful ghosts, who then proceeded 
 to rip any nearby enemies to shreds. Although the carnage wasnt particularly graphic, just imagine 
 how much more entertaining this weapon might be with the addition of Havoc physics and polygonal 
 innards.
  Favorite Enemy: The Centaurs presented a unique challenge with their reflective shields. Most ranged 
 attacks would ricochet right back toward the player without the right timing. A large group of 
 the man-beasts was always an alarming sight.
  Favorite Level: Hexen's locations displayed a bit more detail than Doom's previous offspring, with 
 recognizable (through still a bit rudimentary) ruins, torture chambers, and chapels. The Heresiarchs 
 Seminary provided one of the more spacious arenas in which to rumble. Many of the game's other 
 locations contained narrow passages that undercut the effectiveness of some weapons.
  Like Heretic, Hexens engine is very dated and simply does not compare to todays technology. Anyone 
 who already owns a copy might enjoy one more adventure as the Mage, Warrior, or Cleric before shelving 
 it for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Hexen came out a very long time ago, 1995 to be exact. it is a sequel to the game Heretic: Shadow 
 of the Serpent Riders. Like Heretic, it uses a Doom engine, and by this time, the Doom engine was 
 starting to get a little outdated due to some restrictions that Heretic and Hexen had to follow. 
 But Dispite these strict guidelines that IDSoftware had, they were able to cram a very good and 
 worthwhile game into a then aging piece of technology.
  
  The Story in Hexen takes place at around the same exact time as Heretic, only it takes place in 
 a different kingdom. In Heretic, The land of Parthoras was taken over by one of the 3 serpent riders, 
 D'sparil, and was later then freed by a Sidhe Elf named Corvus. In Hexen, the kingdom of... well, 
 Hexen, is overshadowed by the second serpent rider, Korax, and 3 heroes: a Warrior, a Cleric, and 
 a Mage go on an epic quest to free the land of Hexen from Korax's minions. The story is very motivating, 
 and it adds on to the lasting value of the game.
  
  The gameplay is a major step up from the standard Doom and Heretic formula. Instead of having about 
 30 or so levels to go through, collecting keys and all, Hexen uses a hub system, which involves 
 passing through groups of levels that are connected to eachother, in which the player has to solve 
 a series of puzzles by traveling back and forth between the levels instead of going through a series 
 of linear ones.
  The difficulty of the game is varied by the choosing of one of the 3 different classes in the game 
 (Warrior, Mage, Cleric) and depending on what strengths and weaknesses you choose based on your 
 class, certain elements of the puzzles in the game will have different difficulty levels, as is 
 with most RPG's.
  
  The graphics in Hexen utilize the Doom engine to it's absolute fullest potential. There is lots 
 of atmospheric level design, and even in this day in age, Hexen still feels so real to the core, 
 even if the trees DO look like paper :D. The game may not have bump-mapping textures like Doom 
 3, or high polygon count like Gears of War, but the game has lots of neat effects and a high level 
 of detail such as Blowing leaves, Lots of mushrooms in swamp areas, and even fog effects, and other 
 effects that few FPS's have today.
  
  There are several versions of Hexen. It is available for the PC, the N64, and the Sega Saturn. 
 I have tested the PC and N64 games out, and they are almost exactly the same, but the music and 
 the graphics are different.
  
  The PC version has signifigantly lower quality graphics and music than the N64 version, because 
 the PC version uses synthesized MIDI music and the textures and sprites are very pixelated. The 
 N64 version has blurred textures and sprites, so the pixelation is lost and has a smoother look, 
 but framerate problems occur almost all the time, so there are sacrifices. The music in the N64 
 version is nothing short of amazing. The music is CD quality, so it outmatches the MIDI music in 
 the PC version by far.
  
  If you have a PC copy of the game available, then I highly recommend doing a google search for 
 something called the Doomsday Engine. The Doomsday Engine is a utility that gives Hexen smooth 
 textures and sprites, dynamic lights, and other graphical tweaks. There is also a Hexen N64 music 
 pack that updates the PC Hexen's music files to the N64 version's music, so you can enjoy the superiority 
 of the N64 game right on your PC. All you need is the HEXEN. WAD file and you should be ready to 
 give it a try!
  
  Ok, the value. This game has a very good amount of content in it. There are about 5 or six hubs 
 in the game, and each of these hubs contains about 4-6 different levels within it. This game will 
 take the average player about 20-25 hours to beat.
  
  Now, on to the cons. As I've said before, due to the engine this game runs on, There are some flaws 
 that the game has. for example: No matter what weapon you are using, even if it's your own fists, 
 if you swing it through the air, EVERY monster in the area will go on full alert. This is because 
 in Doom, you're usually in tight corridors, so any sound you make will be heard by the zombies\demons 
 close by. The Doom engine was unfortunately not updated to having LARGE environments. There are 
 other situations such as this that I can't really explain, but I think you get the picture.
  
  Overall, Hexen is a great game, and It's lasting value has lived on 'till this day, and that's 
 saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  Hexen plays alot like the Doom games, but looks different.
  Hexen is all about completing puzzles and killing monsters and stuff.
  
  Gameplay:
  Nice 
 gameplay.
  +Different classes, which also increases the value of the game.
  +Every class has different weapons
  +Different enemies
  +puzzles
  -Hard game
  -Hard puzzles
 
  -Confusing puzzles
  
  Graphics:
  +Look good for the old times
  +If you have an old computer there are no stability problems
  -Running on a high end computer 
 may cause stability crashes.
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice environment sounds
  +Good scary enemy sounds
  -Boring music effects
  
  Value:
  Nice value.
  +Different classes 
 and weapons
  +Lots of levels, because of puzzle solving
  -Small levels
  
  Tilt:
  +Fair presentation
  -No intro movie
  
  Cya all and if you like this game play it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoolieWool
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Riding on the heels of Doom's phenomenal success, Raven Software created the first two games of 
 their Serpent Riders series with the Doom engine. The first was Heretic, a decent but unremarkable 
 medieval game that was pretty much Doom with swords and sorcery, even ripping off the weapons and 
 some of them onsters. In 1995, they released the ambitious sequel Hexen, which married traditional 
 FPS gameplay with mind-bending puzzles. Did it work? After a fashion.
  
  Hexen is set an indeterminate period of time after Raven's other Doom-engined game Heretic,, set 
 on the world Kronus, which is inhabited by humans unlike the elf world of Hexen. After D'Sparil 
 was defeated by the elves, his stronger brother Korax came to Kronus to take a crack at the mortals. 
 He conquered all the world except for the three heroes of the game: Baratus the fighter, Parias 
 the cleric, and Daedolon the mage. Just like in Hexen, there's no sign of your fallen compatriots, 
 except for the ubiquitous Ettin monsters, which are said to be the corrupted remnants of Kronus's 
 armies.
  
  Hexen is the first, and still one of the only single-player FPS games with multiple player classes. 
 There's the fighter, who is fast and strong but relies mainly on close-quarters attacks; the cleric, 
 who is middle of the road in his speed, strength, and range; and the mage, a frail character who 
 wields powerful magical attacks. With any character except the Mage, you will be getting in melee 
 range often.
  
  While fast, brutal hack-and-slash combat could be excellent, Hexen's gameplay. Both the player 
 and the monsters have too many hitpoints and take a lot of hits to kill. Especially as the Cleric, 
 killing a monster in the first few levels requires a tedious sequence of attacks and dodges. Doing 
 this eighty times per level is not fun at all, and the consequences for a mistake are fairly light. 
 Only the fighter has some of the hectic pace that made Doom so great.
  
  The graphics are good by 1995 standards, with flashy weapon effects, translucency, and fog (a first 
 for the Doom engine) . Hexen adds a powerful scripting engine (later recycled and expanded for the 
 ZDoom source port) to the Doom engine, although in Hexen many of the scripted sequences are largely 
 gimmicks (one of the more memorable scripted events is in the Shadow Wood, when an earthquake strikes 
 and a stone pathway collapses under your feet) . Still, Hexen is overshadowed graphically by contemporaries 
 like Tyrian and Terminal Velocity.
  
  The sounds are good, with lots of creepy monster noises, painful-sounding weapon impacts. Especially 
 satisfying is the crack on impact of the fighter's fist, which is the only really fun weapon in 
 the game due to its good damage, good speed, and entertaining double-power punch every third strike. 
 Unfortunately, the music is largely forgettable, with boring Gregorian chant songs on the CD and 
 quiet, boring midi tracks if you would prefer not to use the CD. However, you can pop your own 
 CD in and the game will play tracks from it.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is let down by frustrating and poorly conceived puzzle gameplay. Many puzzles 
 make you search several levels for various key items to unlock a new area. Hexen's hub system joins 
 many of the game's 40 maps into several super-levels. Within these assemblies of levels, one may 
 miss items or some element of the puzzle required to unlock one (Hexen often has puzzles within 
 puzzles) , requiring you to search levels over and over again. Sometimes a locked door will just 
 stare you in the face and make you wonder what you did wrong. Even the boss level has several scripted 
 traps that will lead to several cheap kills before you figure out how the traps work (hint: don't 
 stand in the middle of the aisle) .
  
  Like Doom, Hexen features very limited multiplayer with palette-swapped players, only with eight 
 players instead of four. The multiplayer was largely pointless even in 1995 since Hexen multiplayer 
 was (a) not very fun, (b) the maps were not very good for multiplayer, and (c) overshadowed by 
 the highly popular Doom multiplayer. Very few players will play Hexen outside of singleplayer.
 
  
  While Hexen is technically competent, the experience itself is more frustrating than fun. The game 
 itself will take you several hours to complete at the minimum, and the tedious gameplay and irritating 
 switch and item puzzles will turn many players off long before them. Some may like the puzzles, 
 although there are games that do it better, but if you're just in for a brutal good time, you're 
 better off playing Doom, Quake, or even Rise of the Triad.
  
  What's Hot: Good graphics for 1995 (even if it is the Doom engine dressed up) , interesting fantasy 
 setting, longer than most early FPS games, actually requires you to think on occasion
  What's Not: Dull, slow-paced fighting, irritating and poorly-executed puzzles, lame music, 
  
 Also Try: Doom, Heretic, Rise of the Triad, Dark Forces, Duke Nukem 3D, Quake 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
