-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hexen II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hexen2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 453 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Aug 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hexen II delivers a mighty blow, but ultimately fails to knock the king off his throne. 

 The first of the highly scrutinized "Quake killers" to hit the shelves, Hexen II delivers a mighty 
 blow, but ultimately fails to knock the king off his throne. Make no mistake: Hexen II is a game 
 with many strengths - its design is superior to the original Hexen, it has a significant payoff 
 for single players winding through its twisted corridors, and visually it is without equal in the 
 action genre. But the game's attempt to break from the standard first-person shooter mold has some 
 nasty side effects, and the end result is a confusing and often frustratingly difficult experience. 
   

 You choose your character from one of four character classes - assassin, necromancer, crusader and 
 paladin - and set out on a quest to destroy the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. Following their 
 demise, you must combat the third Serpent Rider, Eidolon (his two siblings having been vanquished 
 in Heretic and Hexen) . There's a thread of a story tying the whole premise together, but it really 
 just serves as a means of dropping you into the lush, graphically rich environments. Which isn't 
 necessarily a criticism - the environments are the best thing about Hexen II, especially when playing 
 the GL version. You'll explore five beautifully texture-mapped realms - a medieval village, a Meso-American 
 temple, an Egyptian tomb, a Greco-Roman palace, and a gloomy cathedral. The visual detail - with 
 tiled mosaics at the bottoms of pools and hieroglyphics on the walls of tombs - is like nothing 
 ever seen in the action genre. In fact, it is not an overstatement to say that Hexen II is one 
 of the most beautiful games ever made.  

 But while the artistic design is truly spectacular, the level design is often confusing. Like Hexen, 
 Hexen II is divided into "hubs," groups of interconnected levels that are intended to break up 
 the monotonous "kill monsters, find key, open door, kill some more" design of typical first-person 
 shooters. You must traverse back and forth through the various levels in each of the game's five 
 hubs, finding objects and solving puzzles to gain entrance to new areas. This concept is sound, 
 and indeed generally does succeed in giving you the feeling that you are in an environment, rather 
 than a loosely connected series of passageways. But as you descend further and further into the 
 game, a number of frustrating problems arise.   

 For one, the secret areas that are common to the genre are not simply rewards for the stalwart wall-hitter; 
 in Hexen II you must find the majority of them in order to proceed. This leads to much backtracking 
 though levels, searching every nook and cranny for some overlooked chink in the wall that may lead 
 to a new area, bashing every bookcase in hopes of finding some means of continuing. The backtracking 
 can be especially frustrating once you've killed all of the monsters in the available areas.  

 
 The second problem is that the puzzles in Hexen II are of the "push some buttons in the right order" 
 variety. For example, at one point in the Roman hub, you must press four buttons - each embossed 
 with an elemental symbol - in a particular order. The clues for solving these stumpers are sometimes 
 vague (as in the case of the constellation puzzle in the Egyptian hub) and, in worst cases, nonexistent. 
 Often the clues, such as notes on tables, are indistinguishable from decorative objects and the 
 fear that you may have missed some important tidbit makes you feel the need to walk up to every 
 piece of furniture in every room from every possible angle.   

 These types of design problems almost hobble the game, but Hexen II has enough payoff to make struggling 
 through the difficult areas worth the hassle. At the end of each hub waits one of the four Horsemen, 
 animated with astonishing detail; and Eidolon, the final boss, looks unbelievable. Go ahead and 
 use a stone of summoning when fighting Death and watch as your demon and the Winged Reaper fight 
 it out against a blood-red sky. It's really amazing.   

 As for the more common monsters you'll encounter, there are some nice innovations, despite the lack 
 of variety (there are only eleven basic types) . Monsters will duck to avoid your attacks, and there 
 are area-specific monsters to match the various environments, such as the Roman medusa and the 
 Egyptian mummy. The weapons also sacrifice quantity for quality - the character-specific art and 
 effects are nice, but there are only four weapons per class. And the classes themselves have some 
 subtle differences - attack ability, special powers - but not enough to make a significant change 
 to the experience.   

 Of course, most of the aforementioned problems dissipate when playing multiplayer, and it proves 
 a much better game against human opponents; even the differences between character classes are 
 more interesting when fighting one another. But Hexen II's deathmatches aren't as purely visceral 
 as Quake's - the assortment of power-ups and magical items often results in simply unloading all 
 of your stuff on an opponent, and it becomes a case of "he who has the most toys wins."  

 A lot of work went into Hexen II, and it shows. But that doesn't stop the feeling that the game 
 was rushed in the latter days of completion. It crashes as a result of simple commands (such as 
 accidentally "quickloading" when you haven't "quicksaved") , level load times are unbearable (we're 
 talking sometimes over a minute) , and each of the hubs concludes with the slow-scrolling text that 
 has seemed like a sick joke since Doom II.   

 In the end, Hexen II has a lot of rewards, but the curious should be warned: It takes a great deal 
 of perseverance to find them.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: breakdown84
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Hexen 2 is a nice change of pace from the usual shoot-em ups that follow Doom's approach, not to 
 say that this game doesn't totally stray from the path. Hexen 2 features a lengthy campaign with 
 four different characters to chose from. When you are tired of playing the campaign or have just 
 finished it, Hexen 2 has a nice multiplayer option to keep you interested. It also is one of the 
 few games that comes with a GL version support for improved graphics and textures. So it just boils 
 down to if you want a comfotable change of pace from Doom and other shoot-em ups, Hexen 2 is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I remember years ago I was first introduced to the FPS genre with Quake. I enjoyed that game thoroughly 
 and started exploring the genre more. I played Doom, Wolfenstein and Heretic and enjoyed them all. 
 Then I heard of a little game called Hexen. I downloaded a demo of that and found it interesting 
 but never got around to playing it. The same goes for Hexen II, until recently. I finally got to 
 play this game after waiting for years, and really it wasn't so bad. Keep on reading.
  
  Gameplay (7/10) : There is a LOT of good and a LOT of bad that is here in this game. I will mention 
 the bad first. There isn't enough enemy variety. A lot of the enemies are merely different colors 
 of the same enemy and are powered up. This makes it really easy to come up with a simple tactic. 
 The puzzles are often complicated in a way that forces you to travel all over the place and you 
 will likely forget where you needed to go or how to get to a particular place at least a few times. 
 Also, the game is actually pretty difficult, having limited weapons and most of them eating up 
 your mana quickly or requiring melee, which often proves deadly for you. With my complaints aside, 
 let me now get to the meat of the game.
  
  Unlike the typical FPS where you just run around killing things, this one has a few special tricks. 
 First of all you get to choose from one of four classes, each with 4 unique weapons and 2 unique 
 abilities, as well as a difference in stats. Yes you read correctly, I said STATS. Once you choose 
 your class, and jump into the game, you will notice that you gain experience points for defeating 
 enemies. Of course you will level up and your stats will raise accordingly, and you will gain abilities 
 as well depending on your class. It really is a unique way to change the typical FPS formula and 
 I personally like it. It gives you a reason to kill all the enemies rather than for the sake of 
 opening a door or just clearing the way for you. You actually benefit from going out of your way 
 to destroy enemies that aren't necessarily bothering you. The weapons are pretty unique to each 
 class as well which is a definately a plus, and this means that you can essentially play through 
 the game four times and find a slightly different experience every time. The bosses are pretty 
 challenging but are really fun and exploring is actually pretty fun thanks to the detailed environments. 
 The one thing really holding this game down is the difficulty and often confusing puzzles. It is 
 nice that all areas for a level are connected so that you feel like you are in a large world, but 
 they could have been a little more helpful with pointing you in the right direction sometimes. 
 At least there are a variety of interesting items for you to play around with, including a stone 
 used for summoning a little demon helper.
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, it is actually pretty neat. Thanks to the class system it makes things 
 interesting, but for some reason I just can't have as much fun with this as I do with Quake. There 
 is something missing, though I am not quite sure what.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : Considering the age of this game, this is is actually pretty darn good. Putting 
 the graphical limits aside, I find that a lot of games even NOW are not nearly as detailed as this 
 game is. Each environment is very unique, ranging from an Egyptian area to a Roman area. You will 
 find little details put in all over the place that leave you realizing that there was a lot of 
 work put into this. Even better are the enemies, which are pretty detailed themselves. Artistically 
 speaking, this game is very beautiful, and makes complete use of the Quake engine.
  
  Sound (7/10) : The music is actually pretty well-done here. The sound effects are not all that bad 
 either. The main problem is that since there is no variety in sound effects the enemies make, you 
 will often hear the same incomprehensible words being said by the enemies OVER and OVER again before 
 you kill them. This can REALLY get annoying and if they weren't going to add variety to the lines 
 and noises the enemies made, they could have at least cut down on how often it happened. Otherwise 
 it is nice.
  
  Value (8/10) : The multiplayer is something worth playing with for a while, but I am sure you will 
 find yourself drifting to other FPS games after a short while. The good part is that since the 
 game has 4 unique classes, you can play through it again as a different class and hence playing 
 in a different style. Not to mention the 3+ difficulty levels for you to play around with. The 
 game will likely not take you more then 10 hours to complete but I assure you that you will want 
 to play through it at least once more. I played through it the first time as a Necromancer and 
 I am currently trying out the Assassin. Though the game can be a difficult at times and somewhat 
 frustrating as well, it really does have its heart in the right place. This is quite a fun game 
 and even though it isn't the best of FPS games out there, it is highly recommendable merely because 
 you can find it for around $5 now. If you enjoy FPS games, this is worth giving a try. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Hexen 2 originally shipped with more bugs than a hotel mattress, but my roommates and I played 
 it anyway, over and over. The game was an ambitious endeavor, in that its developers pushed their 
 scope beyond the basic run-and-gun Quake routine to add a more adventurous role-playing aspect. 
 Like Heretic and Hexen before it, Hexen 2 sicced the player on a trio of nasty, serpentine wizards. 
 With two down and the toughest foe remaining, four very distinct characters were available for 
 hours of hacking and slashing (and freezing and burning) through four large areas. The hubs and 
 artifacts returned from both previous games and were even more essential here. Weapons and the 
 effects of certain artifacts and armor were unique to each character class, plus the scenery in 
 each exotic episode was rarely repetitive, all of which added up to a very high replay value. However, 
 the solution to each fetch and follow-the-pattern puzzle remained the same for each persona, 
 so those elements provided little challenge after enough practice. Still, the enemies were suitably 
 gnarly and numerous and the range of battle tactics was wide, so Hexen 2 delivered on the action 
 as long as the player didnt miss an important key, clue, or relic -- in which case the lulls spent 
 while backtracking through a cleared hub were worse than an afternoon at the DMV.
  
  Notable Feature: The use of experience points allowed each character to earn two specialized abilities, 
 which differed in usefulness from very little (the Paladins Divine Intervention skill never proved 
 itself a particularly worthy replacement for the Quickload button) to extremely handy (with enough 
 practice, the Assassin would make mincemeat out of even the Four Horsemen with her vicious Backstab) .
 
  
  Favorite Weapon: The thin beam of the Crusaders Lightbringer staff not only burned straight through 
 an entire pack of critters, it also allowed for plenty of fancy bank shots that would make any 
 pool shark proud.
  
  Favorite Enemy: Dealing with a roomful of Fallen Angels was challenging enough to give anyone hives. 
 Not only did they rebound any shot while their wings were closed, the only means of scoring a hit 
 placed the player directly in harms way; although (slightly) vulnerable with their wings unfurled, 
 Angels had their own version of the Lightbringer that hurt a lot.
  
  Favorite Level: The Egyptian hub displayed an amazing level of detail (for a Quake-based game in 
 1997, mind) in its wall textures and statues. That episodes arid tombs provided an interesting 
 change of pace from the moist dungeons and caves that dominated the Serpent Rider trilogy overall.
 
  
  Hexen 2 is one of those excellent classics that -- as long as you can get it up and running on 
 a modern PC -- is worth a replay every few years. FPS titles with a fantasy theme seemed to slip 
 beneath games set either far in the future or the 1940s in terms of popularity over the past decade, 
 so the use of mana as ammunition is still a unique and exciting experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Hexen 2 is a stunning game with good graphics and better puzzles then Hexen.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Nice gameplay animations
  +Four different classes,
  +Lots of levels
  +Nice 
 puzzles
  +Different kinds of enemies
  +Every class has different stats and weapons
  -When in the third chapter puzzles get too hard
  -No challenging bosses
  
  Graphics:
  +The 
 graphics look good and smooth
  ++No known problems
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice sounds and music
  +Good weapon sounds
  
  Value:
  +Different chapters, each with 5-6 
 levels
  +DIfferent classes for replay value
  -Not an all that long game
  
  Tilt:
  +/-Overall mediocre presentation
  -No intro movie or some sort
  
  Because of Hexen 2 his 
 graphics, the game is a good game.
  cya all and have fun playing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game will have you playing for hours! some very deep levels with great looking enemys, the 
 graphics for the age of the game are amazing. Very innovative gameplay with destructable objects 
 on most maps and small amounts of puzzle solving make this atmospheric shooter superb. A game I 
 personally recommend to anyone who has a older computer but wants to play a good FPS, this is the 
 FPS you should play, it is fantastic. 
  
  Conclusion: This game is a huge title following the success of Hexen, if you like adventure, this 
 is for you, it has some very atmospheric levels with great enemys to play against, from spiders 
 to egyptian knights, its all here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  HeXen II, the sequel to HeXen is a great conturbanalis, with richly embroided plumes and scutums, 
 and helms. Not only does the iamgination be free and that of infinitum, one is presented with realsitic 
 latitude and scales of castles, citadels, barbicans, bastions, onagers, scorpions, magonels, lorica 
 segmentatas, lorica hamatas, and other impressive feature. The Dux Bellorum of its genre.
  
  Hexen II is the discourse of the chronicels of the Serpent Riders or these grotesque and chitinous 
 behomeths whe hold all in thrall to the demralization of Hope, the subjugation of the plebeians 
 and patrcians, and the vexillarius of their patronage- the Order which pertains to corruption.
 
  After the slaughter of Korax in the original HeXen to three brave souls, the eldest vile Rider 
 went of to conquor the world of Thyrion. After slaughtering most of the denizens of the planet, 
 and subjugating most of the cities and empires, with the mass stricken with Despair and terror, 
 four beings have arisen to stand up against this blasphemous reign of Death infinitum.
  
  The graphics in HeXen II are probably the weakest signifier of the game. It is modeled after the 
 Quake engine- based on polygons and such. the graphics may seem dull but accordingly were the 'lingua 
 franca' of its epoch. If the graphics do not suit your cosmopolitan taste, you can install an open-GL 
 card which greatly increases its graphics. 
  
  HeXen II's greatest triumph is its gameplay features. Not only is it immersive in the story line 
 and plucks the lyre of imagination, its is on a massive scale. The enviroment includes wind, rain, 
 bricks crumbling, walking sheep, and thunder. Torches flicker in the distance and doors sway in 
 the breeze. Bells chime and chair can be broken. The adamantine waters glisten in the moonlight 
 and ablaze with fiery crimson in the gaze of the golden sun. the skies are saturated in clouds 
 to offer the bleak desolence that has seized the planet. There are actual castles and citadels 
 working drawbridges, porticulli which allow you to fire on unsuspecting foes and to vanguard your 
 position, working onagers and petroboli which let you hurl massive objects on your opponents. Finally 
 unlike in the original HeXen, in HeXen II you can swim in the water and dive down into the murky 
 depths.
  
  All in all, HeXen II is a game worth playing not only for its rich settings and scenarios, but 
 also because of its realsitic scale and latitude.
  If there is stil lsome doubt, at least get the demo, you will like it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhineasFreak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:30 am PT
Review:  Hexen II, one of the most amazing games in it's class, combines the RPG style experience gain with 
 all the action of a FPS. It starts off pretty simple, and has plenty of puzzles to keep the game 
 alive. When you get tired of the single player campaign, (That is after the hours and hours of 
 playing it) try the multiplayer either on a network or on the internet. Some of my fondest memories 
 of this game were from the 8 player smack downs we had among friends. I always stayed with the 
 assasin, the hide in shadows abililty combined with some of the darker levels was great to sneak 
 behind someone and stab them in the back with the Katar. Also the powered up weapons and the variations 
 on each weapons make sure that there's a weapon for every situation, and enough variation that 
 it was never one sided.
  All in all I give this game a 9.7 rating, just because I don't believe that there are too many 
 perfect games. This one is pretty close though, and I definately recommend it to anyone who can 
 find this rare and precious jewel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterVilleVGL
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Hexen 2 is a pretty good game, one of the best ever created on it's kind but hit is too tough also.
 
  To start with it has TOO many puzzles, i think, more than a FPS should have and also there is 
 a problem with the third episode, at least for me, i could n't find the upper crown so i had to 
 complete the game by cheating.
  Despite these minorities it's a good game and i really liked it, but honestly i prefer Hexen I 
 or Heretic than this brain-blowing game. It really worths playing if you want an FPS that wont 
 let you exit easily 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  I think it's safe to say that Hexen II is one of the greatest games to have ever been made. It's 
 on par with other greats such as Duke Nukem 3D, Half-Life and Ultimate Doom, perhaps even exceeding 
 them in greatness.
  
  Hexen II carries on the storyline of Heretic and the original Hexen. Two of the Serpent Riders, 
 D'Sparil and Korax, have been destroyed and the Forces of Light seemed to be on the brink of victory. 
 However, Eidolon, the last remaining Serpent Rider has brought his armies to war, and the battle 
 begins once more...
  
  Hexen II is great for many reason, including superb graphics, sound and music. However, what really 
 makes Hexen II excel is the hybridisation of FPS and RPG games. The action is FPS style, yet you 
 choose your character at the beginning of the game, like an RPG. In the RPG style, your character 
 has their own abilities, weapons and spells. You can select from the Crusader, Assassin, Necromancer 
 and Paladin. Each character class is fantastic, though some argue the Assassin is too weak, in 
 that her weapons and abilities are not useful enough.
  
  Enemies greatly vary, from Leopard-Men to Iron Golems. You will travel to 4 unique worlds, resembling 
 ancient Europe, Egypt, Rome and Aztec. You will also fight each of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, 
 which is very fun and challenging. 
  
  Hexen II is a classic game, and not a game any collector should be missing. 
  
  Fantastic!
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
