-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hexen II Mission Pack: Portal of Praevus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hexen2missionpackpop/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 23, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 6.5, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 77 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Mar 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is clearly a must-have for Hexen II fans, and even critics of the original game should find 
 the new features, creatures, levels, and weapons suitably impressive. 

 When Hexen II hit the streets, it was generally hailed as the best-looking first-person action game 
 ever to see the light of day. When it came to gameplay, however, most gamers fell into one of two 
 groups: While some loved the new, pseudo-RPG title, others criticized the confusing hub-based level 
 design and the many arcane puzzles. Hexen II Mission Pack: Portal of Praevus represents good news 
 for both groups. Not only does this game offer better graphics than its predecessor, but it also 
 provides better level design, more comprehensible puzzles, and much-improved gameplay.  

 In Portal of Praevus, the four heroes from Hexen II return to Eidolon's castle to investigate an 
 unnatural winter that has fallen across the land. A fifth character - the Demoness, Eidolon's former 
 minion - also comes to investigate this ill-omened phenomenon. You choose one of these five characters 
 and the game begins with you leaping into a huge fissure to investigate the fortress that lies 
 beneath Eidolon's castle.  

 The game features 15 new levels, split between two hubs: Blackmarsh (the subterranean castle) and 
 Tibet. In general, the levels are very well designed and seem to be a tiny bit smaller (and more 
 manageable) than their predecessors. The architecture and texture quality are quite spectacular, 
 and you'll often find yourself gaping at the amazing detail of the rooms while archers pelt you 
 with arrows. Raven indeed has a flair for intricate room design, and it has never been more apparent 
 than in Portal of Praevus. Eerie crypts, majestic throne rooms, meditation chambers, and snow-covered 
 courtyards highlight an impressive list of settings in this game.   

 What sets this game apart is not just the level design, but also the extra touches that accent each 
 map. When you run down the corridor of a Tibetan temple - under the curving wood supports and past 
 numerous candles - you really get the sense that you're immersed in the setting. Similarly, Raven 
 has gone to great lengths to create intricate decorations for most maps, including a number of 
 impressive statues, furniture, banners, and windows. One room near the end of the game has an amazing, 
 highly polished reflective floor. While the Jedi Knight team may still have the edge in overall 
 quality of level design, Raven has no equal when it comes to dressing up a scene and creating exquisitely 
 detailed texture maps.  

 Raven also creates some amazing polygon creatures, as the new Yakmen illustrate. These Minotaur-like 
 creatures are some of the best-looking first-person shooter enemies yet seen. They huff and puff 
 and shoot little icicle shards at you. They also move like lighting and like to head-butt you into 
 oblivion. When you kill them, they dramatically fall to their knees before giving up the ghost. 
 The other creatures in the game include multitudinous archers, imps, golems, skull wizards, spiders 
 (which are still a bit too powerful) , and other familiar faces. The new Were-Tigers are much like 
 their Jaguar cousins, only more powerful and harder to kill.  

 Unlike Hexen II, which used a confusing web of hubs and interconnecting levels, Praevus uses a much 
 more easily navigable hub system. You'll never feel like you are miles from where you need to be, 
 and you won't be constantly running back over previously covered ground (both of which were major 
 problems in Hexen II) . Doors to new levels are clearly marked, and doorways you aren't yet supposed 
 to enter are clearly locked or inaccessible. This cleaned-up hub system helps keep the action moving 
 in Praevus and helps eliminate the old nuisance of running through empty levels looking for that 
 last hidden puzzle piece.  

 Even the puzzles themselves are a bit easier to handle in Praevus. For one thing, you'll actually 
 find clues located throughout the levels. Plaques typically serve to point you in the right direction, 
 but books and tablets also offer advice from time to time. Also, those items that do provide clues 
 are easily recognizable, so you don't have to bash up every bookcase and crumbling wall just to 
 solve a single puzzle. Even better, Praevus also includes an Objectives Menu, which maintains a 
 running list of the quests you are currently trying to complete. What also helps with the puzzle-solving 
 is that Praevus switches to a "cinematic" view when you complete certain tasks so that you can 
 see what it is you've done, such as which door just opened.  

 As far as the Demoness goes, she is a welcome addition to the core group of heroes. Like the other 
 character classes, this red-skinned creature has two special abilities that develop as you move 
 through the game. First, she can land safely when falling from a great height, which can be useful 
 in several areas of the game. Second, she has the ability to convert energy attacks against her 
 into mana that she can use for her own offensive tendencies. Also, the Demoness has some impressive 
 weapons at her disposal, including the Acid Rune, Firestorm, and the mighty Tempest's Staff.  

 
 One slightly disappointing area of Praevus is the lack of new multiplayer maps. You can now add 
 the Demoness to the mix on existing maps, but there aren't any new ones. Raven has stated, however, 
 that several new Hexen II maps have been developed and indicated that they may simply be made available 
 as free downloads from HexenWorld.  

 The game does have a few other quirks, which are relatively minor. For starters, Praevus still uses 
 a few too many artifacts in its puzzles. The Objectives Menu helps you keep things organized, but 
 when you start running into unique item after unique item (the bell of this, the incense of that, 
 the staff of what's-his-name) , the game starts to feel a bit ludicrous. It would have been a bit 
 better to give the lesser artifacts generic names, which would have made them seem more like the 
 mundane items they are and would have also kept the focus on the more crucial, plot-driving artifacts. 

 Also, there is one truly annoying new monster that simply throws off the game balance. These little, 
 bloblike creatures appear in caverns, hop around like jumping beans, and spit fire at you. They 
 are difficult to see, difficult to hit, and do an inordinate amount of damage when they attack. 
 The game would have been better if these things were made either less powerful or easier to hit. 

 Finally, some strange system slowdowns were encountered when using the new Firestorm weapon. It 
 seemed clear that this was the result of texture-swapping, but the fact that it happened repeatedly 
 seemed odd, especially on a Pentium II/300 with 64MB RAM and a Diamond Monster 3D II card. However, 
 after trying to isolate the problem, it seems as if the Voodoo2 card may have been at the heart 
 of the problem, because the problem could not be duplicated on a slower machine equipped with an 
 older Orchid Righteous 3D card.  

 With its many gameplay improvements and its impressive level design, Portal of Praevus glides easily 
 into the upper echelon of first-person action games. This is clearly a must-have for Hexen II fans, 
 and even critics of the original game should find the new features, creatures, levels, and weapons 
 suitably impressive.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact that I wore the sectors of my hard drive that housed Hexen 2 to a frazzle  playing 
 through it several times as each of the four iconic characters, not to mention all the time spent 
 chasing down Eidolons dirtbag brothers in Heretic and Hexen  I was very eager to grab a copy 
 of the games expansion pack. The gameplay was what drew me back; even though most of Praevus 
 minions were just as brick-dumb as before, with an intellect sufficient to do little more than 
 duck, dodge, and run directly at the player, Hexen 2s Quake-based battle mechanics were gratifyingly 
 intense. The addition of the Demoness as a fifth unique character made up for the expansions relative 
 brevity, since the new content was essentially a single extended episode with Asian influences 
 similar to the original campaigns settings in Medieval England, Greece, South America, and Egypt. 
 Like the Medusae endemic to Septimus or the jackal-headed mummies found only in Thysis, the expansion 
 included some interesting additions to Hexens stock of fantastical fauna that related directly 
 to the games Tibetan theme.
  
  Notable Feature: The Demoness, if only because its almost always more fun to play as one of the 
 bad guys. While its true that the Necromancer and Assassin were far from angelic, and that none 
 of the characters alignment had an effect on the games story arc, drawing the fifth adventurer 
 from the waning remnant of Eidolons army tied the expansion to the Serpent Riders trilogy more 
 effectively than the first Hexens expansion pack, Deathkings of the Dark Citadel. Thats not to 
 say that Deathkings wasnt remarkably fun, by the way, or that following the trilogys storyline 
 was emphasized much by the games designers. The succubus background simply reflected Raven Softwares 
 consideration for the importance of character and motivation to even a rudimentary role-playing 
 model; her addition to the list of characters made sense.
  
  Favorite Weapon: The Demoness brought her black magic to the fight, flicking blood and casting 
 spells and wielding a huge batwinged staff. However, all of those were just redesigned versions 
 of the weapons used by the other four characters. The Crusaders Lightbringer held top honors as 
 the most effective of the bunch  almost unfairly so, since it was as easy to use as a laser pointer 
 and relatively modest in its consumption of mana.
  
  Favorite Enemy: I found myself running away from the loud, huge, and devastating Yakmen in abject 
 fear. Like the roaring Hell Barons from Doom and nigh-indestructible Gargs in Half-Life, a good 
 FPS enemy evokes fear through a combination of appearance and endurance. Anyone who was ever chased 
 by a territorial bull in real life (as I was in my early teens) could tap directly into the panic 
 of running blindly from Praevus Yakmen.
  
  Favorite Level: The booby-trapped hallways and icy arenas of the entire episode are very well-designed, 
 in terms of both layout (plenty of room to strafe and sling flechettes) and appearance.
  
  The entire Serpent Riders series is imaginatively detailed and still a lot of fun despite the fact 
 that the original Doom and Quake engines are extremely long in the tooth. Anyone who can find a 
 copy of Heretic, the Hexens, Deathkings, and the Portal of Praevus (whether online or stuffed in 
 the back of a drawer full of retired games) might enjoy a quick quest for the Chaos Sphere across 
 those worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 20, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Hexen 2: Portal of Preavus is a good expansion pack for Hexen 2, but it does not offer lots of 
 new stuff.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay does not really change with the expansion, there is a new character you can play (demon 
 girl) , but that aint a very new style of gameplay.
  Some new weapons and power- ups will be revealed though and multiplayer was fixed.
  Nice puzzles 
 (hard though) .
  
  Graphics:
  Game looks good, some new environments (snow world) .
  Some new enemies which do look amazing and cool.
  
  Sounds:
  Music did not really change 
 but it is still good.
  Sounds for the new enemies are very cool.
  Bit repetitive music though.
  
  Online:
  Never played online, so i don't have anything to 
 tell here.
  
  Value:
  Good value, normal hexen 2 can be played with demon and the new maps and enemies are nice too.
 
  
  Variety:
  Best of all, lots of enemies, lots of maps, 4 different chars.
  
  Well thats it for H2: P of P
  cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Snow, snow, and snow... After numerous innovations and countless mundi of logistics, the particular 
 vexillarius had finally brought about an everchanging enviroment and latitude. Snow will be falling 
 from the ether, and the vias will be saturated with snow. There are also new features. For example, 
 there is one new character- the demoness. This being can spur forth poison bolts, and can send 
 fiery flame unto brazier of what such a hearth! (One wields the thittle to decreed such.) The storyline 
 is that after Eidolon got slaughtered and his death knell rung, a wizard called Praevus 
  turned Thyrion into a barren tundra (commonwealth of vagabonds) and tried to gain energy from the 
 souls of the Serpent Riders. AAh, through that which hath been forged through that of conviciton 
 and effort- splendid! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
