-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hidden & Dangerous 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hiddendangerous2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 28, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.7, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 806 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Illusion Softworks
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 21, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's a lot of entertainment to be found in this game, but you'll need to wade through a lot of 
 problems to get to it. 

  Released back in 1999, Hidden &amp; Dangerous helped spearhead the burgeoning tactical shooter 
 genre. It took the careful planning, team coordination, and one-shot-one-kill ethos that have come 
 to define the genre and set them during the dark days of World War II. You controlled daring commandos 
 of the British Special Air Service, fighting Axis aggression with brains and stealth as much as 
 with firepower. For all its strengths, Hidden &amp; Dangerous suffered major flaws, like swarms 
 of bugs, convoluted menus and controls, and plain silliness, like characters dying when they fell 
 several feet. Now, developer Illusion Softworks is back with a sequel, Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2, 
 which again puts you in the boots of SAS operatives who undertake bold missions behind enemy lines. 
 Amazingly, despite the four-year interval, this new game is badly marred by the same kinds of faults 
 that hurt the original. That's a real shame because if it weren't for these problems, Hidden &amp; 
 Dangerous 2 could take its place among the elite of World War II shooters.  

          Choose your men and their gear.     

  One of the first things you learn about Hidden 
 &amp; Dangerous 2 is that it can be very hard work and is best suited to patient and forgiving 
 gamers. Almost everything takes longer than it should or is more complex than it need be. Consider 
 the menus. If you're like many gamers, one of the first things you'll do when you boot up the game 
 is set the options to your liking. When you get to the control options, you'll find page after 
 page of control assignments. There's no quick-reference card or single page in the manual that 
 details them all, so you might wish to copy them down by hand for reference, continually hop back 
 to the settings menus, or search for the details scattered throughout the lengthy manual. What's 
 worse is that a bug can make it fiendishly difficult to change key assignments to your liking. 

  You'll quickly find that problems aren't limited to the control settings. Throughout the game, 
 many parts of the interface and controls are cumbersome or initially confusing. Games like Splinter 
 Cell have shown how you can enjoy complex character movements with simple, intuitive controls. 
 These lessons were lost on Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2, where you constantly find yourself fumbling 
 or fiddling with numerous controls to switch movement stances, lean, climb objects, switch from 
 a crosshair to your weapon's own "iron" sights, manipulate inventories, give orders, and more. 
 You can easily spend so much time micromanaging that you overlook enemies you would have spotted 
 in other shooters where less button-pressing and menu-navigating is required. Reaction time is 
 vital here, too, since the enemies are good shots in this game. Making matters worse, movement 
 itself, even outside of the control complexity issue, can be hazardous to your character's health: 
 It's way too easy to fall off ladders to your death.  

  One of the most interesting features of Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 is the ability to control up to 
 four characters at a time. You directly control any one character via a first- or third-person 
 viewpoint. That character can give simple spoken orders or hand signals ("follow me," "fire at 
 will," and so on) to his fellow troops. Additionally, you can pause the action and switch to an 
 overhead map where you lay out waypoints, set movement speeds, stances, and so forth for your men. 

  Tactical shooters like SWAT 3 and the Rainbow Six series have shown how you can control multiple 
 characters relatively smoothly and effectively, whether in real time or via premission planning. 
 It's not so easy in Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2. The interface is somewhat cumbersome, but more significantly, 
 your AI-controlled allies often do phenomenally stupid things. They can make bizarre pathfinding 
 decisions, get caught up on tiny obstacles or vehicles, block you or each other in tight spaces, 
 not shoot at enemies in the same room, stand in each other's line of fire without moving, stroll 
 into the ocean for no reason and drown, and perform other maddening acts of folly. The game too 
 often becomes work as you repeatedly handhold your men.  

          AI companions caught up in a doorway again.     

  The missions are already very tough, 
 so these sorts of problems, together with major bugs, can really try your patience. A level that 
 should have offered 20 minutes of thrilling adventure stretched into a two-hour ordeal of drudge 
 work, retries, crashes, and total lock-ups. Scripting bugs can make a number of missions nearly 
 impossible to finish, requiring numerous retries.  

  If you like, you can play the missions in a "lone wolf" mode, where you tackle them solo to avoid 
 some of the hassles of controlling four men. However, part of the fun of Hidden &amp; Dangerous 
 2 should ideally be in using all of your men to the best of their abilities. It's usually a patience-stretching 
 chore, but when it does work, it's rewarding. You can choose from a variety of men, each rated 
 for health, stealth, shooting, and other attributes that can increase after successful missions. 
 You'll want to carefully decide how to employ your troops to make the most of their abilities. 
 Also, each man can carry only a limited amount of gear, and it will usually have to last through 
 multiple missions within successive minicampaigns. So, you'll have to choose your gear carefully 
 before you start and then decide how to juggle it with items you scrounge from dead enemies.   
   

  Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 boasts an impressive array of gear and weapons, like knives, pistols, 
 bolt-action and semi-automatic rifles, various mines and explosives, cameras, compasses, wire cutters, 
 and much more. The weapons are modeled on real WWII firearms, so you'll find the familiar M1 Garand 
 and MP 40 among less familiar arms like the Japanese Arisaka Meiji 38 rifle. 

          A daring escape run through a canyon.     

  Your 20 missions take you from wintry Norway 
 to the North African desert to the steamy jungles of Burma to the heart of occupied Europe. Some 
 tasks are unimaginative, generic affairs, like simple raids on small bases where you just go around 
 and blast all the bad guys. One mission is particularly implausible in the context of the game: 
 Your four operatives have to eliminate an entire sprawling town of enemies. Many missions require 
 way too much trial and error. Fortunately, many missions are also very colorful and exciting. In 
 one, you infiltrate a research facility alone to photograph secret materials and then destroy the 
 place. You sneak around silently, knife in hand, ready to dispatch guards. Tension mounts all the 
 while as you rapidly evade a soldier strolling down the hall toward you or as you nearly stumble 
 right into two scientists discussing their work. You get a palpable sense of being thrust into 
 the lion's den. During such missions, you also get to take advantage of the game's unusually detailed 
 disguise system that requires much care on your part. Every part of your uniform and visible gear 
 has to be standard enemy issue, and even then, if you loiter around enemies too long, they'll catch 
 on that you're an imposter.  

  Some of the other entertaining missions let you tear around in vehicles, like when you commandeer 
 a flak vehicle at an Italian airbase and start blasting their planes to scrap. During one exciting 
 venture, you roar through a canyon in a commandeered German bomber with fighters in hot pursuit. 
 With the John Williams-style music blaring and guns rattling, it feels like something right out 
 of an Indiana Jones movie.  

  One thing almost all the missions do well is create vivid, wonderfully detailed settings. In the 
 aforementioned research facility, you'll find aerodynamic test chambers, old-fashioned drafting 
 tables, propaganda posters on the walls, and many little items that bring the rooms to life. Buildings 
 all look like real, lived-in places, instead of just a bunch of rooms seeded with guards for you 
 to fight. To add to the believability, the game lets you overhear lengthy conversations between 
 enemy soldiers or scientists. If you know the appropriate languages, some of these can be pretty 
 interesting or amusing, like when a German scientist berates a guard at length for his laxity and 
 then gives him a further tongue-lashing for making excuses. (Vital dialogue is subtitled for your 
 convenience.)  

  Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 sports some gorgeous graphics and powerful audio to give these details 
 added impact. The graphics engine may not be on the very cutting edge, but the developers sure 
 made great use of it. The textures are surely some of the best yet featured in a game, with marvelous 
 diversity and attention to detail, from the frost coating a U-boat in Norway to nearly photorealistic 
 canyon walls in Africa to the dried blades of grass in a Czech town. Little details like footprints 
 left in mud, playing cards scattered on a barracks table, and colorful leaves falling from trees 
 in autumn add to the immersion. Loud, powerful sound effects bring weapons fire to life, and a 
 derivative yet fitting orchestral score adds to the ambience. Many of the voice-overs are well 
 above average, and the cutscenes are dramatically directed.  

          A nice place for camping if it weren't behind enemy lines.     

  Along with the lengthy 
 single-player campaign, Hidden &amp; Dangerous offers three multiplayer modes: an every-man-for-himself 
 deathmatch, an objective-based mode, and a territorial control mode reminiscent of Day of Defeat 
 or Battlefield 1942. These modes feature some interesting maps, but like the single-player game, 
 multiplayer is marred by major bugs that can make it hard to connect, let alone actually play. 
 Also, there's no cooperative mode, and this is a game that screams out for it since it could help 
 you circumvent the many problems with the AI.  

  In a word, Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 is frustrating. It's often frustrating to play, and it's frustrating 
 to see that there's clearly a wonderful game hidden amongst the major bugs, cumbersome controls, 
 questionable AI, and other flaws. When everything works well, Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 can offer 
 an immersive, exciting mix of strategy and action in marvelously convincing settings. There's a 
 lot of entertainment to be found in this game, but you'll need to wade through a lot of problems 
 to get to it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fherre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Compared with the original it has better graphics and more complex micromanagement. Whit regard 
 the AI, if you learn to control it (put your soldiers in a defensive or pasive way, shoot at your 
 mark) is very rewarding and you get the impresion that you work with a team. Like the first one, 
 it has one slot to save (you can rewrite your gane) but you must be carefull about when to save 
 your game since, if you do it in an irreversible situation you must begin again the mission. It 
 is inmersive and very detailed with regard the micromanagement of the equip that use your soldiers, 
 but would have be better if some things were more ready and easy to manage (medic kits for example) .
 
  Not would be bad that some day Take Two (now owner of Illusion Softworks) develops a new and enhanced 
 sequel of this promising game that is like a diamond that only must be pulished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  HD2 Was the bizomb. I read reviews at the time that really trashed it. I know there was a philosophy 
 back then that you only test games unpatched. Maybe that was the problem. This game was pretty 
 unique at the time as was GREAT fun. It had well thought out changes of pace and difficulties. 
 I have not played many games that live up to the level where you have to defend the town from an 
 invasion from the watch tower. How fun was that!!! Taking on a tank with infantry gear was a gas 
 as well.
  
  This walkthrough is for the game known as Hidden and Dangerous 2. This is one of the best games 
 I have ever played as it offers a unique version of war games balanced with pure fun and action. 
 The game takes place in World War 2 in many different areas. There are over twenty levels in seven 
 campaigns and each one is as fun as the next. During each level you get to select the soldiers 
 you take, up to four, and the weapons you take. There are many ways to give commands to your soldier 
 which adds a lot of fun to the game. Levels take time to beat but can be completed. This guide 
 will cover all of the missions found in Hidden and Dangerous 2 including some extra information. 
 I hope you enjoy my guide and ultimately the game. Remember that this guide will offer some help 
 but will just help you through. Completing the actions is on your part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Badger
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  I played the first H&amp; D a year before the H&amp; D2 demo was released. At that time I also played 
 Half-Life and Soldier of Fortune, two more standard FPS, which made H&amp; D feel old and awkward. 
 And all the bugs didn't make it better either. It ended up with me playing it through once, including 
 the expansion. My experience was mixed, and preferred games like HL and SoF, games with more action.
 
  Then when the H&amp; D2 Demo was released I installed it and played it, and played it, and played 
 it. I just couldn't stop playing it! It was the only, and is, demo I have played so much. When 
 the game was released I bought it, took it home and installed it. After some problems with getting 
 it to work despite a good installation, I finely started to play it. And as with the demo it was 
 perfect. Both the multi-player and single-player part were fantastic. I still play it today, not 
 as often, unfortunately time is catching up. But it is still a great game, and with the coop mode 
 from Sabre Squadron its lots of fun. I can agree that there are a bit bugs, and that squad controlling 
 isn't the best but you can easily look past that because the game is so good all around. You can 
 play it like you want to. If you want to equip you and your squad with machine-guns and mow down 
 germans you can, if you want to sneak and kill as few as possible, that can be done to. You can 
 play it as a one man squad or two, three... the point is that you can do it as you like. The same 
 applies to the loadout. You can play with whatever loadout you want. I have played through Spaghetti 
 Airport , on the hardest difficulty, with just one guy adn a knife. I never had to use a gun, nor 
 did I get discovered, so no tank. Nothing is impossible. I think that H&amp; D2 has the best inventory 
 system of all games. Its simple, understandable and realistic. All the weapons and gadgets are 
 perfect all things has their use and nothing feels wrong. I can only think of one thing that bothers 
 me, when you have Sabre Squadron installed you get a silenced Luger. But you can only use this 
 on a couple of maps, only SS maps. I would have been great to use a silenced gun dressed as a german, 
 sneaking around shooting instead of knifing them all...
  
  The missions are good too. Not all are great, but they all fit in. Most of the missions can be 
 played in different ways too (stealth, assault and so on) . Some are standard missions, raid that, 
 save the and so on. But some are more original, defeating germans on a big ice block that are falling 
 apart. All have a great atmosphere and are believable. As a conclusion I will say that this game 
 is the best game ever made, all categories. The game is not for everyone, but no game is. It has 
 some faults but if you can look above them you will find a fantastic game that lasts forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  As a fan of just about anything World War IIrelated, I was one of those players who really wanted 
 to like Hidden &amp; Dangerous. But I just couldnt get past its clunky control scheme, myriad 
 bugs, and performance issues. So I was anxious to dive into the sequel  in development for four 
 years now  and see if the game could live up to its potential this time.
  
  The good news: Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 absorbed me right through to its epic, bloody finish  
 it was so engrossing that at times I actually had to force myself to stop playing (sleep, eat, 
 real-world responsibilities, and such) . The bad news: Most of the old problems make a return visit.
 
  
  First the good stuff. Illusions has served up an entirely new game engine, capable of rendering 
 very detailed, large, and varied indoor and outdoor environments, as well as impressively realistic 
 weather effects and finely animated models. Its also delivered a suite of disparate missions that 
 are simply thrilling to experience. Ive never played a game that managed to string together such 
 diverse missions into one entertaining whole. Each scenario feels totally natural, even in wildly 
 different environments.
  
  In one mission, youre in Africa storming an Italian airfield to try to capture a visiting German 
 officer. In the next youre high-tailing it across the desert in a stolen AA truck trying to evade 
 strafing German fighter planes and blasting through roadblocks. Later, youre in a stolen Ju-88 
 bomber trying to fly to friendly lines with German fighters in hot pursuit. Then youre in scuba 
 gear planting magnetic mines on a German battleship, before youre off to Burma to take on the 
 Japanese Navy for a bit. And the final mission, in which youre wiping out what are clearly the 
 last vestiges of Hitlers loyal stooges, has a surprise twist that history buffs should appreciate.
 
  
  Regrettably, the shifting mission styles arent balanced by a cohesive story. For instance, theres 
 no explanation as to why youve been whisked away to Burma to fight the Japanese for a couple of 
 missions before heading back to Europe to continue capping Nazis.
  
  As in H&amp; D, youre in command of an elite team of British Special Air Services (SAS) troops 
  highly trained commando units tasked with fighting behind enemy lines against tremendous odds. 
 Before each mission, you select up to a four-man team from a pool of 30 SAS members, each with 
 different ratings across a set of seven measured stats, which include stealth, shooting, and medical 
 abilities, as well as strength and endurance. (These attributes increase through experience, so 
 it pays to bring your whole squad back alive.) Then you outfit your group with all the appropriate 
 WWII gear  light, medium, and heavy weapons; all sorts of explosives; backpacks, scuba gear, enemy 
 uniforms, medkits, and so on  and youre off.
  
  When starting a campaign, youll rarely have an opportunity for resupply in the field. So you not 
 only need to be very judicious in how you use your gear, but you must scavenge from the enemy. 
 This necessity brings up some tough choices, like should you drop your sniper rifle in favor of 
 an enemy submachine gun? You may need the firepower now, but that sniper rifle could be critical 
 to the next mission. If you drop it, youll cross your fingers that you find another one, or uncover 
 another way around problems you encounter. Between your own loadout and the German and Japanese 
 arsenal, several dozen weapons are available to be used, and theyre all rendered in a high level 
 of realistic detail.
  
  The gameplay possibilities presented by such a wide variety of equipment are exploited in creative 
 ways. For instance, the first time I encountered a tank, I didnt have a single anti-tank weapon 
 among my team. So I had to run away, hunt down and kill a German carrying a Panzerfaust, nab it, 
 and then return to deal with the tank (with only one round in the tube!) . Awesome.
  
  Unfortunately, the control scheme is still overly complicated and feels almost like a flight sim 
 at times. You can reconfigure the games controls, but when I did so it just led to more confusion 
 until I learned to get the hang of the default scheme.
  
  The enemy troops AI is solid, but youll need to really micromanage your team or theyll get you 
 in trouble  for example, if you jump from your sniper to your heavy-weapons guy, the concealed 
 sniper may spontaneously stand up, alerting everyone to his presence. Plus, when you issue a follow 
 command, a couple of your mates may inexplicably dash ahead of you, opening doors and causing unintentional 
 mayhem.
  
  I also found the new 3D tactical interface, which you can use to plan detailed waypoints and go-codes, 
 too cumbersome to be of much use  a flaw that was only compounded by my teams unreliable AI. 
 (Its a testament to the games strength of flexibility, however, that I could totally ignore this 
 feature and not feel one bit of pain.) Among some other annoyances, enemy tanks often seemed to 
 inexplicably stop operating, as if theyd reached the end of their script and didnt know what 
 to do. And I encountered a variety of sound issues  rampant ghost firing being the worst  minor 
 clipping problems, and pathfinding quirks.
  
  Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and objective-based scenarios round out an impressive multiplayer 
 package. However, an option to play through the campaigns cooperatively remains AWOL, which is 
 a real shame, since it would be the perfect bow atop whats already an impressive gift of WWII 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyeRazor
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Hidden and Dangerous 2 is a third and first person game which is played by four soldiers of Britain's 
 SAS. These mem embark on missions in which they are vastly outnumbered in all the time and must 
 use superior tactics and thinking. There are alot of varieties in missions and availble weapons.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Go there, kill them, blow up that.
  Go there, kill them, blow up that.
  
  In my opinion, gameplay gets repetitive as you go through the missions. You'll find yourself 
 constantly trying to infiltrate your way into the mission area, while trying to kill all the German 
 Soldiers who make it a goal to stop you.
  
  Their use of skills is, pretty disappointing, because their skills don't advance much, and is pretty 
 useless. From my experience I would see that only one of my soldiers would advance maybe 0.5 in 
 one skill, which doesn't help much.
  
  Controls could be better, the default controls have you using the arrow keys, when its easier to 
 be using the WSAD keys.
  
  Graphics:
  In terms of character detail, the graphics are okay, but where they really shine is in the environment. 
 In each campaign you will introduced to a new scenary, which means a new approach in how to complete 
 your mission.
  
  You'll be faced with hills, valleys, bushes, trees, snow, buildings, and craters.
  
  Some segments 
 of landscape could have been sculpted a bit better, and some details on the soldiers as well.
 
  
  SOUND:
  From my experience I had trouble with some of the sounds from machine guns, when I sprayed bullets 
 I would hear this painful 'mechanic noise' sound.
  
  The other sounds in the game were okay, but could have been keyed in a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  I have talked about the previous version (H&amp; D) this one is better also because is been released 
 some years later!! ;)
  
  Graphics: on my opinion are good. Maybe they can develop them a bit more.
  Sound: Great, good 
 soundtrack good dialogs good ambient sounds
  Game play: the difficulty is just right and the AI of enemies is great. Also in this chapter of 
 H&amp; D Germans troops adopted ingenious strategies to find and kill you! . I think that medium 
 o hard is a good challenge) !
  
  Perfect the weapons the vehicles and strategies that you can adopt to defeat the enemy! Some missions 
 are amazing!
  
  If you want more missions just take the expansion pack Sabre Squadron but remember that is only 
 an expansion and has only new mission, Don't expect a better game! Is great as this one! :)
  
  I hope that are going to do H&amp; D3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mahasukh
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Three years after the release of H&amp; D2 this is still my favourite WWII shooter. I remember one 
 afternoon in a game shop, having a talk with this young kid (I'm 40+) , who asked me about my experience 
 with both Call of Duty and H&amp; D2. He had money for just the one game. I carefully explained 
 that both are excellent games, but there's a big difference between playing a regular soldier and 
 doing what you're being told, or being a member of the SAS and finding out for yourself what the 
 best course of action might be. He walked out with th&iacute; s game and I hope he never looked 
 back.
  
  I'm not going to talk about graphical quality, shader pixels and all that expert stuff. The eye 
 candy is certainly important too, and there are better games out there in this department. But 
 in the end I'm sure this will NOT determine how you appreciate and remember a game, however jaw 
 dropping the graphical quality in certain games is. The point is: how do you feel when playing 
 a game? THAT is what you'll remember and come back to. I've been coming back to H&amp; D2 for three 
 years now. Because you're a member of the SAS (the early commandos) and not a regular soldier, 
 there is no predetermined way to do things and you'll find yourself going back to a finished mission 
 to try and reach your goals in different ways. That's what makes the re-playability of this game 
 so great. This time no shooting your way through the front gate, but sneak around to the back and 
 cut a hole in the fence. See how that works out. The freedom you have with this game will make 
 you a H&amp; D2 addict, I promise!
  
  The extra game play options work great too. You can play alone, or command 2, 3 or 4 buddies. You 
 can work through the levels as fast as possible or play in Carnage mode, meaning all the baddies 
 h&aacute; ve to be eliminated before moving on. In Hard mode you'll have only 1 save option per 
 level and it's a tough challenge.
  Throughout the course of the game your chosen character (s) will receive upgrades and promotions, 
 so there's a clear incentive to keeping your guys alive from one campaign to the next, making things 
 extra exciting.
  
  Finally, the atmosphere in this game sneaks up on you and will never leave. The settings, level 
 designs and the fact that it's best to think your way through instead of run and blast (although 
 there's plenty of shooting) , makes Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 an unforgettable experience.
  If you can find the complete package (with the Sabre Squadron expansion + patches) , go for it!
 
  
  For weeks now I've set myself a goal: to play the first Sabre Squadron level, the one in the pouring 
 rain, in one go, without using a single Save &aacute; nd in Carnage mode. Haven't succeeded yet, 
 but I just keep coming back.
  How do I feel when playing this game? Just terrific! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATFNeOpHyTe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  I've played the first H&amp; D also, but considering that the first version was much older this 
 game had to be better, and I think it was. I think the character selection was quite big, and not 
 much games (then) used this kind of option. your loadout selection was quite real ( with weight, 
 what kind of weapons etc) . Graphics: for then it must have been outstanding, I'm not saying it 
 would compete with todays games. the numberous amount of taunts was also good. the use option was 
 a downside, to pick up an enemy weapon for ex. you'd use about 3-4 buttons before you'd picked 
 it up. The AI was just about right for me, although sometimes your teammates where just a pain 
 in the @$$ (standing in line of fire) , and were more dumb then a roasted turkey.
  In some maps/levels you'd need your best tactical thinking before you'll get to your objective. 
 In the beginning this game isnt really hard, you get basic training first, just to get used to 
 that immense amount of buttons you would use. once you'll get used to the amount of buttons I think 
 you'll get more pleasure out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulybino
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best WWII shooters I've ever played (and I've played everything from 
 MOHAA to COD2) . Here's why:
  - stunning graphics: clouds don't move, but they sure do look realistic. The sky, the mountains, 
 the maps, the horizon, it's simply amazing
  - amazing level of detail (how about all the wall clocks in each level showing you real time - 
 you can walk around, ambush some enemies, come back and check the time!)
  - non-linear game-play: you can play the same level in a different way each time! I never get tired 
 of it!
  - I love how gameplay changes from offensive to defensive (like when you first have to assault 
 an oasis in one level, and then defend it in the next. Again it's up to you how you do it - you 
 can set up anti-personnel mines, for example, and have a few surprises for ther germans trying 
 to sneak in:) !
  - huge variety of weapons and the freedom of who you choose for the mission, what equipment you 
 might need, who gets the BAR and who gets a sniper rifle...
  
  I love this game! I wish there was H&amp; D3!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drfmerc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  The game requires you to use your brain just like you would with any strategy game like C&amp; C 
 generals or Commandos but this is better because you get to think up your own way of doing your 
 mission finding your own route unlike COD or MOH where you have to do it a certain way. This game 
 is the most realistic WW2 Game I have ever seen! The only question mark comes with What about a 
 Hidden and Dangerous 3 and or a couple more expansions. The Gameplay is very very good my only 
 dissapointment is that you have to lie down to use the bren gun but that is not anything to worry 
 about. having a squad of men under control is superb especially with the control you have over 
 them, So much so that you can literally command your squad to do anything you could do while you 
 just sit back and watch (if thats what floats your boat!) Only a hidden and dangerous 3 could out 
 do this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elrond3836
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  Une pice de choix pour les amoureux de seconde guerre mondiale, le premier volet tait dj bien, 
 ce second volet et son add-on sont superbe,  quand le Hidden & Dangeroux 3 ?
  
  Une seule chose regrettable par contre, le fait de ne pouvoir entre croiser les campagnes de H&D 
 2 avec l'add-an Sabre Squadron.
  
  En mode facile a va, en normal a commence  pas tre vident, en difficile c'est la ralit, 
 ensuite c'est l'enfer la moindre cartouche ennemi peut tre mortelle !
  
  Les progrs par rapport au premier volet sont tellement nombreux que j'ai peine  les dcrire, 
 le fait de pouvoir se soigner, de pouvoir progresser dans les capacits, d'avoir un nombre consquent 
 d'armes (o sont certaines armes du premier volet ?) .
  
  Par contre les jeep SAS de la seconde guerre mondiale taient quipes de double mitrailleuse Bren 
  Tamour et de mitrailleuse Vickers et pas de mitrailleuse Browing, jamais, Les SAS sont anglais, 
 pas amricains ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmTheMoose
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a simulation of a commando unit called the SAS (Special Air Service) that takes place 
 during World War 2. There are lots of mini-campaigns consisting of 1-6 missions each.
  
  Before each mission, you pick 4 out of about 30 or so commandos that each have their own strengths 
 and abilities. You then outfit them with whatever camouflage and equipment you think is best, and 
 then get to attempt the mission.
  
  There is alot of variety in the missions. For example, in one mission you have to infiltrate a 
 castle to get a hold on some German documents, and on another you have to defend a plane with its 
 on-board machine-guns as you fly through a canyon (one of my favorite missions) .
  
  Fallen enemies and friends can be looted for their ammo or supplies; however this can be a slow 
 process, which can be looked at as more realistic (you can choose which items you want to take, 
 and how fast you loot them depends on how fast you can drag the item from their inventory to yours)
 
  
  Another thing I like about this game is a human element in enemies. They can flank you and use 
 tactics, and they can also get scared if too many bullets are fired at them and surrender.
  
  And yes, this game has semi-realistic physics!
  
  So if you are looking for an awesome 
 tactical World War 2 game, look no further, because this is as good as it gets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_grasso
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  When you think of the artificial intelligence of enemies in some games they're either good or utterly 
 crap. Even the AI of ur own team mates is deplorable. Take this situation for example, the whole 
 team is in a truck that I'm driving and one of my team mates 'attempts' to throw a grenade at a 
 plane which is swooping down at us with heavy fire. He just throws the grenade straight into the 
 air above us and it just comes right back down to kill us all. 
  
  It doesn't just end there, shooting a bazooka at an enemy thats on the other side of a wall and 
 he just hits the wall killing us all! Apart from these problems it has great level design and still 
 has pretty okay graphics. In my opinion the keyboard controls are relatively easy and the difficulty 
 of the missions depends on the strategy you use. Overall its better than any Medal of Honour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta222
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  How many people play this game? 12? What about the Medal of Honor series? Too many. The masses 
 flock to whatever looks flashy. 
  
  This game doesn't have the cartoon-ish zazz EA shooters, or rig-whoring graphics, it has a soul. 
 Levels aren't too linear (Call of Duty anyone?) , the group is easy to control/great vehicles, great 
 use of rag-dolls (Call of Duty?) and Iron Sights, great variety in missions... this game has all 
 that is needed for a great gaming experience. This is like the new Commando game that never was. 
 This is far better, older, and inspired. 
  
  Put down the generic EA WWII FPS, this surpasses them all. 
  
  Look it up, it is criminally 
 under-priced now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 070758
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  Okay, so you start the game and go to the menu. holy crap! you'll think cuz theres loads and loads 
 of buttons. why so many buttons? i think some buttons are quite useless, like the tactical situation 
 thingy. why not just activate it and use WSAD controls? then i started to play. its okay, graphics 
 are really nice for a 2003 game. but once u shoot the germans and they die, the procedure is annoyingly 
 long to loot them. so i continued playing... until i reach this africa mission. (before the plane 
 part) i looked at my objective. its says get the documents. WHere? where the hell am i supposed 
 to get it. after two hours i found it. so i continued to play. ok. then after the austria missions 
 i started to get bored so i pressed ALT F4 and quit the game and uninstalled the whole game. Dude, 
 its boring. im only a kid. im 13. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Very accurate with the opperation names and weapons. Has a ok veriety of drivable viehicles such 
 as tanks, jeeps, and motorcycles. and it has over 80 historicly accurately named weapons. In my 
 opinion its beter than Call of Duty. The texture realution is incredable, I think the game uses 
 a source engine wich is the engine that gives Half Life 2 and Counter Strike Source its spectacular 
 graphics. Be nice if the came out with more updates and if the local Wall Mart had carried these 
 games ( I had to buy mine of the inter net ) . To sum this game up IT ROCKS AND IS WORTH BUYING!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Hidden And Dangerous 2 is a Historical Tactical 1st/3rd Person Shooter. Despite the low score at 
 Gamespot, it is a Masterpiece that should never be forgotten.
  
  Hidden And Dangerous 2 takes place during World War II. The game takes you through battlefields 
 all around the world, fighting in a standard 4 unit SAS squad. The game is historically quite accurate, 
 the developers have done a lot of work on that part. The games immersive feel and thrilling gameplay 
 make this a must-have for anyone who likes WW-II games, shooters or tactical games.
  
  The gameplay is very well done. You have a huge arsenal of WW-II weapons to choose from at the 
 beginning of some missions. If you start a mission, then first you have to choose 4 men from a 
 long list, each of the men have their personal stats and history. You also have to choose your 
 equipment, usually only in the first mission of a campaign, which gives the game a very realistic 
 feel. You have to be careful what you take with you, since your can only carry a certain amount. 
 You can either put things in your pockets, or take a backpack with you and use that for carrying 
 what you can't fit in your pockets. You can only carry two weapons, one on your shoulders and one 
 in your hands. How much you are carrying determines how fast you lose stamina, which determines 
 your accuracy, how much you can run, etc. You can choose from either small arms, medium arms, heavy 
 arms, uniforms, equipment and much more. The most effective way to play this game is by making 
 each of your men carry certain weapons. For instance, i made my main first team member a SMG/Sniper, 
 the second one a Heavy Weapon/Bazooka, the third a Rifle/Sniper and the fourth a Medic/Ammo Carrier. 
 You can also choose from ready made weapon and equipment configurations, but its better if you 
 customise your equipment yourself. In the game, you can choose between either the 1st or 3rd Person 
 View. They can both be very useful at times, so it is a good idea to bind the switching action 
 to a easily accessible key. You can also take control of either one of your four teammates, which 
 can be tactically useful, if you are playing a defensive mission or planning an ambush. During 
 the game you will feel like you are really there on the battlefield, because this is one of the 
 very few WW-II Shooters which has put in both ragdolls and bullet hit marks (on the bodies) . Sometimes 
 you will walk around and all of the sudden a enemy fires at you and your helmet flies off in a 
 ragdoll and starts to roll and loudly rattle on the ground. These are some of the coolest moments 
 in the game, but the are not scripted, so you never know when it might happen. You can carry only 
 two weapons, but you actually won't need any more if you know what you are doing. The whole shooting 
 system is well done and you can shoot from standing, crouching or prone position. As i mentioned 
 before, the game also has a stamina system. In the game you can quickly choose between many walking 
 speeds, using the mouse wheel. These speeds determine how loud you are when you move and how much 
 stamina you lose while moving. If you run and your stamina runs out, you have to walk and your 
 accuracy won't be so good, etc. One of the best parts of the game is the tactical system. You can 
 give a whole bunch of different orders to your team, which lets you control them quickly and effectively. 
 This is very useful, if you learn how to use it correctly. The game also has a system, which gives 
 you a overhead view of the battlefield and allows you to combine a whole bunch of actions in a 
 chain and even give these actions a execution hand signal. This can be very cool at times and give 
 you a lot of tactical advantage. You can also switch the pause off during this view and make you 
 characters execute these actions while looking at everything from above. You might think that this 
 is an easy way to spot enemies, but the truth is, that you can only see enemies, that you either 
 hear or are in visual range of. They appear as red dots on the map and compass. This makes the 
 compass a tool, that you must take with you to every mission. You can also drive vehicles in this 
 game, from trucks and cars to tanks and half-tracks. The driving system closely resembles that 
 of Mafia. Some levels are just so huge that they seem endless unless you are using a vehicle. During 
 these large levels, sometimes you will hear a bullet hit you from so far, that you won't even hear 
 the shot. Once you complete a mission, you and your teammates will get promotions, medals and stat 
 increases, you can also read your journal about that mission, which might have some interesting 
 info at times. The game is quite long and you can choose to play the game either as a team or a 
 Lone Wolf. The game takes you through many places around the world and some missions even take 
 place mostly under water. The scuba-diving missions are something that can't be found in any other 
 WW-II Shooter. The enemies also talk in their native language and quite accurately (at least the 
 germans do) and this is quite unusual for most WW-II games.
  
  The graphics are a bit old, but you wont care much, because of the great gameplay. Although the 
 graphics aren't impressive, they are still good enough to please the average gamer. The game uses 
 the same graphics engine as Mafia, so if you played that game, Hidden And Dangerous 2 will have 
 a little bit of the same magic in it, especially when you look at the characters faces.
  
  The games sound is fantastic. Although this game came out in 2003, the sound is still as good as 
 that of the newest games. Everything you do, every weapon or item you drop, has a realistic sound, 
 all adding up to the immersiveness of this game.
  
  The game has a huge amount of different controls, although they are very useful if mastered, it 
 is still hard to customise them yourself, since there are a lot of keys to bind and the game won't 
 let you save the configuration until every action is binded to a key. The controls let you perform 
 a lot of important actions quickly and effectively so it is important that you customise the keys 
 well, if you plan to change the default configuration.
  
  The game doesn't have anything special to make you play through it again, except the fun and immersive 
 gameplay. This game also has a multiplayer mode, but i have never played it, since i am more of 
 a Single-Player type. It is however quite challenging to play through the game in the Lone Wolf 
 mode, since in some missions you will need to carry a lot of important equipment and it is a lot 
 harder to do it alone, not to mention the idea of a whole bunch of Germans/Italians/Japs fighting 
 against one British SAS Soldier.
  
  Overall, Hidden And Dangerous 2 is a game that is a must-have for anyone who likes shooting, tactical 
 or historical games. How this game received a low score is beyond me, because its perfect combination 
 of Shooting, Stealth, Driving and Tactics make it a true Masterpiece and a unique experience among 
 WW-II games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pargo1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Initially this game takes some getting used to, but when you persevere it is really worth the effort. 
 While it may not have the graphics engine of your more mainstream titles such as Medal of Honor 
 or Call of Duty, H&D2 has an ace up its sleeve open ended gameplay. Gone are the linear street 
 alleys, corridors and mysteriously un-jumpable fences and invisible walls the prevent players form 
 exploring their gaming environments. There are no arrows or squad members that herd you in the 
 correct direction, no, in H&D2 the gamer is presented with large open environments and a multitude 
 of objectives to complete, with no set route as to how they can be approached, you can go pretty 
 much anywhere. 
  
  Now for the beginning gameplayer this can be a little confusing made difficult by the dreadful 
 mapping of the control keys, but once this oversight has been corrected there are hours of entertaining 
 gameplay ahead. The beauty of this game is the stealth and planning approach needed to complete 
 each level as a Rambo style approach will inevitably end up with the player six feet under. 
  
  Play it in First person perspective and its like Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines meets Medal 
 of Honor, that can be replayed over and over. There have been many comments about the game being 
 buggy (Ive yet to experience any) but nonetheless if your into WW2 games that require you to use 
 at least 2% of your brain capacity then have a look at Hidden & Dangerous 2 its a classy title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Great game but it could of been so much more. The lead on the first hidden & dangerous would been 
 very difficult since the first one was so good that I am still playing today! 
  
  It adds new features, such as atmosphere, music and improvement to graphics along with gameplay. 
 You are able to control up to four men, each armed and under orders from you, the player. All are 
 under contract with British SAS, one of the finest specialist armed teams you will find. These 
 men are the best of the best, it requires attention to their skills and what they specialise in. 
 
  
  Each move you make in the map could change the whole outcome of success to absolute failure. Games, 
 that I have seen, can be completed by complete no holds barred assault, leaving a bloodless trail 
 of bodies. Although in H&D 2 the same thing pretty much happens, it does not mean that games should 
 give a person an opportunity to complete level without thinking first. 
  
  Strategy and the most liked part, invention, the ability to stage tactics and changing them once 
 on the battlefield map. Any move you make could be your last, weather conditions as well the surrounding 
 environment. It gives you that tense atmosphere that you do not sense in any other war games. The 
 music plays a big part, the music pretty much allows anyone to cut the atmosphere with a knife. 
 I only could hear my chair creeking, studying where the enemy could pop up. That is what I would 
 like to see, excitiement, fun and a challenge, Hidden & Dangerous 2 offers all that.
  
  The bugs and glitches are a matter of frustration rather than an annoyance. You can at one point 
 have your team assembled in good order and then wanting them to stop whilst trying to get your 
 finger on the key, the extra steady movement they make could be their very last. When you order 
 someone to stop, they stop, thats it but the formations can be confusing at first and you will 
 need to learn these from bit by bit.
  
  For me to say that this game is crooked or awful would be a terrible to say and a disgrace to the 
 games industry, because this game is a new piece, a piece of art, honour and invention, its a new 
 start aimed to strengthen better ties between strategy and action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Landar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  The jungle is dense with foliage. Rain will not cease as it harmonizes beautifully with the sounds 
 of birds and insects in the background. The air seems thick and hot as my unit of SAS British soldiers 
 carefully creeps through the dense atmosphere in column formation. It has been over 10 minutes 
 since my last gun shot but it is clear something is about to come my way, only I don't know exactly 
 from where. I open my map and realize one of my primary objectives should be up ahead. Closing 
 the map I get my binoculars and through branches and bushes I spot a village some 80 meters away. 
 I plan a synchronized ambush on my tactical overview map and orchestrate a swift approach over 
 to the enemy's holding, but as my sniper fires his first shot all hell breaks loose. The Japanese 
 flock the area uncertain of where exactly my unit lies in cover, and will not hesitate to shoot 
 mercilessly at any signs of movement. After an initial outburst its calm again, and the enemy is 
 now ready to counter. I send my heavy gunner to flank the village on the right, and once he is 
 down on his belly I give the order to open fire. The brutal sound of the bren gun shatters the 
 silence once again, only this time the enemy is truly surrounded from every flank. Japanese bodies 
 litter the ground, the coast is clear. I have successfully eliminated the enemy and can now proceed 
 to capture important documents that will shift the war on to our side, but before I can head for 
 the extraction point I must first deal with what would seem to be hundreds of strategically placed 
 machine gun posts hidden all over the jungle. It won't be easy, but throughout the past week I've 
 dealt with worst.
  
  What I described above is without a doubt a great example of some of the most intense and satisfying 
 gaming moments I have ever had in my life. It's a description of an hour spent with Hidden & Dangerous 
 2, and it's what you can expect to go through if you grab this game. 
  We've had tons of games set in the back drop of WWII in the past couple of years. Most of them 
 have been FPS, and some of them have been really good, but none of them, and hear me well, none 
 of them will provide you with the depth of game play and sheer atmospheric tension that H&D2 packs 
 in its three CD's. I have no idea how this one slipped under my radar. I remember that when it 
 came out, most web sites and message boards were complaining about a buggy release, six patches 
 later though, this game is probably very close to what the developers envisioned initially, and 
 what a game it is. One thing you must take into consideration is that this is not a run n' gun 
 type of game. Just like in the old Rainbow Six games, you will fail miserably if your actions are 
 not planned ahead. A methodical approach is necessary in order to overcome the many obstacles Hitler 
 and his gang have prepared for you all over the world. 
  The main reason why I love this game so much is that you will constantly be put in situations that 
 seem impossible, but with a little thinking you'll be able to conduct some extremely satisfying 
 maneuvers that will bring whole enemy encampments to their knees, or for use of a better word, 
 to their graves.
  
  From a technical standpoint H&D2 is a tight little package. Nothing about the game is really outstanding, 
 but the sum of its parts comes together creating a very compelling experience. One of the aspects 
 I really enjoy about the game is the freedom you are given when it comes to completing a mission's 
 objectives. Right from the start you have the choice to select up to four soldiers from a pool 
 of forty. In order to be successful, the unit you build should have a specialized soldier in each 
 of the following areas: medic, heavy gunner, sniper, and rifleman. With your men selected you then 
 get to out fit them. There is an ample selection of guns, uniforms, gadgets etc to choose from. 
 Some items are not necessary, but if selected they can really enhance game play. A great example 
 of this is the wire cutters. During the first mission you are tasked with infiltrating a German 
 occupied base. There are several ways in which you could get in, but I decided to go with a combination 
 of stealthy aggression. What I did was place my sniper and medic (with a sten gun) near the entrance 
 and sent my heavy gunner and rifle man with a pair of wire cutters to the side of the base. Once 
 I had stealthily broken in, I had them creep up to a vantage point and unleash a rain of lead onto 
 the enemy. Simultaneously my sniper and medic opened fire on any approaching Nazi scum. This took 
 care of most of the resistance I expected to meet. The sense of accomplishment was amazing. I guarantee 
 you won't feel this sort of rush with Call of Duty 2, especially on the first mission. 
  Visually the game is good. It might not go shoulder to shoulder with Half Life 2 or even Brothers 
 in Arms, but there are a lot of details here and there that help raise the immersion factor in 
 ways you wouldn't expect. One good example is the authenticity of the uniforms and how they'll 
 show wounds when shot. It matters not whether you heal yourself or not, get shot and you keep the 
 scars to prove it. Animation is also worthy of a pat on the back, most of the time anyway. Soldiers 
 will move realistically across some of the largest and most lovingly crafted levels I have seen 
 in a WWII shooter. Running, crawling, walking, creeping, shooting, all of these actions look good 
 and just like in Splinter Cell, you control the speed movement with the mouse wheel. I wish more 
 games used this feature since it really adds to the character's movement. As for the death animations, 
 I can't say for sure whether they are canned or rag doll based, but they do look very good. Another 
 aspect worth mentioning is the draw distance. You can see for miles on end, allowing you to accurately 
 plan your approach to a given objective. This alone adds tons of believability to the gaming environment. 
 The artistic direction goes for realism and it succeeds. Some of the later levels feature your 
 typical bomb-shelled European towns, and they look quite convincing., but by the time you get there 
 you'll have experienced lavish jungles, snow covered forests, never-ending deserts, ocean-bound 
 military ships, and all manner of interior locales. Once the credits roll you'll feel like you've 
 battled (and defeated) the Nazi War Machine in every imaginable environment. The coolness in these 
 levels doesn't really come from how well they are rendered though, since it's more a combination 
 of little touches that make them feel real. I mentioned the Burma jungle right? Well, once you've 
 cleared the village and walk in, you'll notice how the water drips from the huts' ceilings and 
 then splashes onto the floor. You'll find stuff like this everywhere, like clouds of dust in the 
 desert, or puffs of snow falling from a tree's branch. The levels feel real. 
  The texture work is kind of a mixed bag. Some textures get really blurry as you close up to them, 
 but at a distance they can look quite decent. 
  Sound is also well implemented. German soldiers speak in German, Japanese in their tongue, and 
 the English never lose their polite yet imposing tone. There is not too much voice acting, but 
 what is there will add rather than detract from the game. Weapons also sound good, with every one 
 sporting a very distinct and singular oomph. The sten could have sounded better, but overall sound 
 gets the job done. The aural shinning spot is the ambient sound though. Wind, rain, fauna, footsteps, 
 engines; in every level you'll be treated to a very realistic sounding background, and once combined 
 with the visuals, you'll get levels that ooze realism and immersion. 
  
  So, is there anything wrong with this three year old game that really didn't do that well at retail, 
 but has a heart of gold? Well, there is; the AI. 
  I am not saying it's the worst use of AI ever, it's just that every other aspect of the game is 
 so tight that the AI while not being great, just stands out like a fly in a glass of milk. It's 
 sporadic, but every now and then your guy will stand in front of his enemy who's only a few meters 
 away and just won't pull the trigger. What's worst is the enemy will do they same. At one point 
 a similar situation happened to me in one of the desert levels. It was funny because it looked 
 like a cowboy showdown was about to go on, only it never really transcended anywhere from there. 
 I shot them both, for being stupid. Its frustrating spending five minutes in the tactical overview 
 map planning this complex move into an enemy barrack to have it all go sour because one of your 
 guys just decided not to move. It doesn't happen every time, but when it does it is infuriating. 
 Other times you'll have your unit perfectly positioned to make an ambush. You'll give them the 
 order to open fire and only one of them obeys, the others are shot and you are left with either 
 the option of going on as a one man "team," or reloading from your last save. These situations 
 are not the norm, but they do tend to creep up on you when least expect them to, when you least 
 need them.
  In other cases the AI will show sparks of brilliance. The enemy will out flank you and your guys 
 will cover your back with determination. In the first level there is a spot where you come across 
 a stuck Nazi truck. My orders were simple; seek and destroy. The enemy was alerted and ran for 
 cover, so did my guys. As a matter of fact, I was the only idiot crouching smack in the center 
 of the clearing, nonetheless, we got them. I think I fired like one or two shots at most, since 
 it was my brave companions who took care of the threat out of their own battle-ready instincts.
 
  
  I think it is rather obvious that I really liked H&D2. The game is no where near perfect and has 
 a few flaws that can drive you insane. But, if you are looking for a game that will make you think 
 just as much as it will make you shoot, then this is the one for you. It is different from every 
 other WWII inspired game in the market in that it trades the scripted nature of the big budget 
 titles, for a game play experience that you can customize to your tastes and playing style. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I really loved everything about this game. The interface to control your troops is bulky and confusing 
 at first and the game has an extreme learning curve, but it is well worth the time to learn. Despite 
 what anyone says bad about this game I feel it is one of the best WW II games by far. They mixed 
 a RPG with a FPS. You can change from 1st or 3rd person views. There are some minor bugs in the 
 game, but they are easy to overlook for what you are getting. There is no other game on the market 
 today that comes close to giving you what this one does. In this game you can pick from multiple 
 character with different abilities. Each separate campaign you can choose different soldiers based 
 on what the mission calls for. However it's best to start out with a well balanced team and keep 
 them for the whole game. In order to keep them they must stay alive. Each mission you go on you 
 abilities go up and you gain rank. So keeping the same team members means your men are higher ranking 
 and have more skills then the other ones that you can choose from. You also get to choose your 
 weapons for each member of your squad. Based on there strength they can carry more equipment. As 
 the game progresses your character and team gets stronger and can carry more equipment. There was 
 only one time while playing the game I switched out a team mate and that was for a stealth only 
 mission. The missions are incredible and very well drawn out. It is a very realistic game. You 
 fight in many different theatres of war. The graphics are incredible and so is the game play. I 
 do not recommend this game for younger games however, because the interface will be to difficult 
 and they will loose interest quickly. I almost gave up on it in the beginning. Now it is one of 
 my favorite games of all time. The patch resolves the problems with the game crashing. I never 
 had it crash once on my system. So in my opinion it is very stable. You have full control of your 
 team. You can tell the team to go stealth, fire at will, wait for your lead and so on. This is 
 a very difficult game and requires strategy along with skill. If you don't choose the correct men 
 and equipment the game will be unbeatable. You are able to use vehicles in some missions even. 
 The graphics are incredible showing footsteps and it has some very unique levels never done before. 
 There are other options to play the game "lonewolf" without other team members. My favorite thing 
 about it is watching your team gain rank and skills as you progress. As I stated before this is 
 a game for a more mature player that is willing to spend the time to understand how to use the 
 interface. I feel the complexity of the interface makes the game better and give you much more 
 options then any of the new style interfaces. You can give up easily or you will hate this game. 
 It took me two hours to get trough boot camp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lallard
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This is, quite simply, the best WWII shooter I have played. It is a squad-based tactical shooter 
 that can be played in either first person or third person. The player does not play as a certain 
 soldier, but can control any squad member at any time. The squad consists of four members of the 
 SAS, the four being chosen from a pool of about forty at the start of each campaign. Each soldier 
 is rated for health, strength, endurance, shooting, stealth, first aid and lock-picking (the latter 
 is relatively useless as there are few instances where this skill is needed) . 
  
  At the start of each campaign, you choose your squad and outfit them with the required weapons 
 and equipment. This can be done be letting the computer choose for you; by designating a soldier 
 as sniper, rifleman, heavy gunner etc; or by selecting all the weapons and equipment yourself.
 
  
  The campaigns are divided into missions, with some campaigns being shorter than others. Missions 
 are varied and some examples include infiltrating an underground complex to photograph documents, 
 defending an oasis, capturing a bunker on top of a hill and planting mines on a ships hull. There 
 are often additional objectives that can be completed during the mission. Should a soldier be killed, 
 he will be unavailable for the remainder of the game and a new soldier cannot be selected until 
 the start of the next campaign. Mission completion will lead to all squad members receiving a slight 
 boost to their stats and some may even be promoted and awarded medals so it pays to keep your squad 
 alive. The locations are varied too  ranging from the snowy wastes of Antarctica to the heat of 
 the African desert to the humid jungles of Burma and to the rocky Alps of Austria. 
  
  A squad-based shooter succeeds or fails by the AI of the players squad. There are some bugs with 
 the AI, most noticeably with its pathfinding. Once I gave an order for my squad to move to a certain 
 location and when I got there I noticed that two members had not. I backtracked and found them 
 trying to run through a wall. However, pathfinding problems are very rare and I encountered no 
 other bugs regarding the AI. In fact the squad are very good  they alert you to the presence of 
 enemies and will often have killed the enemy before you have even sighted them. They can be relied 
 upon to defend both themselves and the character you are controlling. 
  
  The game includes a tactical map which is activated by pressing space. This can be used to plan 
 complex manoeuvres (by the setting of waypoints) , set ambushes and to issue specific orders. It 
 also pauses the action allowing you to assess any threats and plan your strategy. The camera can 
 also be zoomed and rotated to observe enemy positions. Gameplay continues either by quitting the 
 tactical map or choosing to run the tactical map in real time. 
  
  The gameplay is very good and non-linear. The maps are open, allowing objectives to be achieved 
 in any order and most levels allow different methods of achieving those objectives. For example, 
 when photographing the documents in the underground complex (a mission encountered early in the 
 game) , there are two ways of completing the mission  run and gun (kill every solider in the level 
 including those who respond to the inevitable alarm) or by stealth (disguised in the uniform of 
 a German) .
  
  Stealth is not the main focus of the game, but it does play an important part in the gameplay. 
 Soldiers can, as mentioned above, disguise themselves as enemies. Silenced weapons such as the 
 De Lisle CC, silenced Sten and knives are available at the start of each campaign. Corpses can 
 be picked up and hidden. Under each soldiers portrait, there is the distance at which an enemy 
 can spot the character. This distance is influenced by, not only the soldiers skill in stealth, 
 but also by position (prone, crouch, upright) and movement speed (slow walk, walk, run and sprint 
 (the latter can only be used in short bursts as it reduces the soldiers stamina which is governed 
 by endurance) ) .
  
  The game controls are not the standard set-up for shooters. The left mouse button is fire and the 
 right is the action button. The arrow keys control movement and the right Ctrl and Shift are crouch 
 and prone respectively. Pressing End will result in looking through the weapons iron sights. Enter 
 is reload, bracket keys are to change weapons, J is jump and Home is climb. Nearly every key on 
 the keyboard performs some function (some of them relate to the tactical map or multiplayer) . As 
 you can see, the controls will take some getting used to or will need to be re-mapped. I adjusted 
 to them and have had no problems using them. This is because they are conveniently located next 
 to the number pad which is used to issue all squad commands. The commands are given as a series 
 of numbers, for example the command 011 will tell all soldiers to follow your character (0 orders 
 all soldiers, 1 selects the movement sub-menu for which 1 is the command follow me.) The commands 
 are comprehensive and include advance, move there, hold position, fire at will, hold fire, fire 
 on my lead etc. Most commands can be issued either verbally or silently. Some commands (lay explosives, 
 open and clear etc) are context sensitive and will only appear for certain objects.
  
  Each soldier can only carry two weapons - one in their hands and one on their shoulder. A knife, 
 pistol, ammo and health pack can be stored on the soldiers belt, but space is limited. A backpack 
 can be added to carry more equipment such as extra ammo, mines, and explosives, but again space 
 is limited. In addition, each soldier can only carry a certain weight of equipment, determined 
 by the characters strength. 
  
  There is much to admire about this game including little details like being able to pick up every 
 weapon dropped by the enemy; being able to loot enemy bodies; being able to move every corpse; 
 enemies who speak in their native language (if the game wishes you to know what they are saying 
 then it will provide subtitles) ; blood appearing on the uniforms and faces of squad members who 
 have been injured; enemies who surrender and the ability to drive every vehicle. 
  
  The game also deserves credit for its comprehensive manual. Unlike most shooters, especially recent 
 ones, the manual contains a wealth of information including profiles for all the weapons, a brief 
 history of the SAS and several pages of tactical advice.
  
  This game is vastly underrated and stands neglected in the shadow of better known, but not necessarily 
 better games. If you love WWII games or shooters in general then I highly recommend this game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirusCoven
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  If you play any World War 2 inspired game, let it be this one! H & D 2 is unsurpassed by anything 
 in the genre. In the game you play as one of 4 SAS agents, all switchable at any time, during the 
 last great war. Every level starts off with a detailed briefing complete with diagrams so you always 
 know what youre supposed to do. You choose your weapons or have the computer choose for you. All 
 the weapons are historically accurate and sound perfect.
  
  Levels are ridiculously detailed and sometimes are as large as an entire city. Controlling your 
 squad is as easy as punching in a few keys and they respond rather well. All the missions are unique 
 and you never feel like your doing the same thing twice. The music is equal to a Hollywood war 
 epic and gives it a stunning atmosphere.
  
  The damage system in the game is a balance between MOHAA and a Tom Clancy game which I is realistic 
 but not impossible. The most impressive feat this game has is the amount of detail. You can pick 
 up any weapon off any soldier, ride any vehicle and the environments are sprawling with detail. 
 One level had me approach a fortress from under the ocean, swim in the sewer line, take care of 
 the fortress and then walk across a long pier and climb a lighthouse to turn it on. When I got 
 to the top of the lighthouse I could see an aerial view of the fortress and the ocean I just came 
 from and I didnt experience an ounce of slowdown.
  
  The other great thing is that all the missions can be tackled anyway you can imagine. There isnt 
 one set way of beating a level which gives the game great replay. I experienced no setbacks through 
 the whole game and the only minor problem is the controls have a hard learning curve. If you love 
 war games, buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Dog
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 8:16 am PT
Review:  Wow! This game is very impressive. I picked it up, thinking it looked quite good. I was hoping 
 it was not too much like the original H&D because I found it a bit too strategy heavy and awkward. 
 I was pleasantly surprised.
  
  Gameplay: H&D2 really shines in this department. Unlike its predecessor, controlling your men is 
 not a chore. You simply give the order to Follow me or Fire at will by using an easy to learn 
 set of commands. You dont have to play with the tactical map at all, and I advise against it. 
 The AI works well, and it feels as though you really are in a team, your men shout out when they 
 see/kill an enemy ect. On the actual combat side, play H&D2 is much like Mafia except a bit more 
 challenging, and the option to use 1st person and/or the iron sight. One thing that disappointed 
 me was the tutorial, I advise skipping it.
  
  Graphics: H&D2 is very pretty to look at, the amount of detail is amazing. It again looks rather 
 like Mafia since is uses the same engine. Both the outdoor and indoor environments look spectacular. 
 Also, the rag doll effect is used quite nicely, but not quite up to the Max Payne 2 standards. 
 For the people with a blood fetish the is a fair amount of blood and bullet holes stay where 
 you shot the person.
  
  Sound: H&D2 has some excellent use of sound. The music plays in the background, subtly changing 
 is you are spotted or start firing. The gun noises are very realistic sounding and also different 
 squad members talk differently depending on their nationality.
  
  Value: With 20 missions each nicely challenging, itll last you a while.
  
  Not much more to 
 say. If you liked H&D you will adore this. If you liked Mafia or tactical shooters this is one 
 of the best.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2004 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I would really give this game a 9.0 but it doesnt even out that way but anyway this game is fun 
 just pure fun. If you liked the mafia for PC style play you will fall in love with this game the 
 only problem is you may have trouble learning all the complex command and tactical moving mode 
 that you can enter which I hardly do because most of the time what I plan to happen doesnt mainly 
 because of semi-poor AI they just are too idependant and yet so dependant on you at the same time 
 so its just a challenge commanding your squad but of course theres a solo mode where you go in 
 alone and complete the main missions I do this more than squad mostly because its easier to control 
 but with a sqaud comes an advantage of carrying things, firepower, and diffrent skills make mission 
 a little easier because some soldiers are more fitted than others for certain missions. This game 
 is so great espcially how you can switch clothing its just cool and its just fabously realistic 
 blood stain blood splatters such as a scientist is standing and examining a research board he turns 
 draws his pistol you load a M1 Garand into his heart blood splatter on the plans as his body freely 
 falls to the grown dead its a great "rag doll effect" making deaths realistic. This game was GREATLY 
 WORTH IT AND ONLY FOR LIKE $20.00!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricing
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2003 8:48 am PT
Review:  Well, this game is sadly underrated in most magazines and web site reviews that I have read.
  A game magazine here in Sweden even compares it and puts it in the same genre as Call of Duty. 
 But that was maybe a mistake by the reviewer..?
  
  This is another game that points out the different approach when developing games between east 
 and west. (Operation Flashpoint, Mafia, Vietcong etc.) I dont have to tell you which approach 
 I prefer
  
  There is (as always) some whining about the AI. Im not an expert on this subject, but I think 
 several countries around the world are spending multimillion dollar budgets on research regarding 
 AI. So I think its rather strange to expect that a game developer should cram perfect human behaviour 
 (if there is such a thing as perfect human behaviour;) into a compact disc.
  
  So - If youre looking for,
  
  - An exciting action game which also lets you use your brain 
 and not only the trigger finger
  - A game with an amazing attention to detail
  - A game with fairly good replay value 
  
  , then H&D2 is the game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2003 8:26 am PT
Review:  Excellent team-based strategy action game with great features and missions. Please find below few 
 good reasons to try this game:
  1. Excellent graphics and envrironments (jungle, high-grass area, sea, undersea, raining effects, 
 footsteps, fog, etc)
  2. Brilliant missions to keep you interested and anxious to play (attack/defend fortresses, drive 
 through desserts, attack ships undersea, fly through canyons and defend plane, etc)
  3. Excellent interactivity. For every order there is different signal, plenty of orders to choose 
 from, hide dead bodies or search them for ammo/weapons, use of enemy uniform to spy, taking prisoners, 
 etc)
  4. Ability to play first or third person mode.
  5. Nice cut-scene videos and nice informative goal videos
  6. Choose among various weapons, uniforms, 
 ... Everytime you make a change in the characters appearance or inventory you will notice the change 
 on the character's appearance.
  7. Best feature is the fact that team members get promotions and improve their statistics.
  8. 
 Follows nature rules (getting tired, overweight, etc)
  
  Certainly there were a few things that could afford some improvements. For example, the AI could 
 be improved but this could result in becoming the best game but impossible to beat. I agree that 
 some missions make require some time to finish but this makes it challenging and also allows you 
 to play it for a while rather than finishing the game within a day. Regarding the control complaints, 
 as soon as you set them up you will find them quite easy to master.
  
  In general this a great game and definately it has nothing to be jealous of from other games. It 
 has some many features that at least make it impressive and you feel that the developers spend 
 some quality time to built this. I would recommend it to anyone that likes this kind of game.
 
  
  Cheers,
  Stam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herrigold
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 31, 2003 8:17 am PT
Review:  Illusion Softworks have done it again, They have made a truly absorbing play experience that succeeds 
 in so many ways. Firstly, there ARE bugs, no doubt about it. But this game is so huge, I am willing 
 to look past them. Hidden and Dangerous 2 has now got some nasty competetion from Call of Duty... 
 both are WWII shooters with high production value, and both would appeal to the same market. I 
 would like to tell you why you should buy H&D2 instead.
  
  Hidden and dangerous 2 does not have anything linear about it. When you start a mission, it's up 
 to YOU to decide how you're going to accomplish it. If you see a patrol, are you going to sneak 
 past or snipe? When you see a tank roll up in the distance, how on earth are you going to deal 
 with it? All these choices make this game suspenseful! Something that most other games lack. When 
 a game is all about running and gunning, it grows tiresome very quickly (all those who played Max 
 Payne 2 take note!) Hidden and Dangerous 2 never gets old, it just gets more exciting.
  
  If you want exciting play that makes you use your brain, please look no further than the new game 
 from Illusion Softworks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donerik
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2003 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that could have swept the WWII charts. But unfortunately it is ridden with bugs 
 much to my frustration. 
  
  I love to play multiplayer online but due to constant game crashes both server and client it is 
 not worth the effort at this time.
  
  The AI is not altogether intelligent and when engaged in a firefight I quickly lose my AI squadmates. 
 I must usually complete the level on my own. Which leads me to the next point.
  
  There is an lot of shooting through walls, ground, tree trunks, etc. which makes hiding very difficult. 
 Also, dark shadows offer no concealement from the enemy as one who is attempting to infiltrate 
 enemy strongholds would expect to be able to do. The enemy AI will immediately start shooting at 
 you no matter if you are lying down hidden or whatever. I was also able to kill enemies by shooting 
 through steel doors etc.
  
  Graphically this game is very good but what is a pretty picture without the substance?
  
  The 
 sound is acceptable but the grenade explosions leave a lot to be desired. Sounds like a sack of 
 flour hitting the ground..."POOF".
  
  I agree with someone elses post that this game was released prematurely do to the soon to be released 
 Call Of Duty which judging from the demo's I have played will not be as bug ridden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepcold
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2003 1:30 pm PT
Review:  7.3!!!! You gave H&D2 7.3/10?!?!?! Come on, this is the best WWII game i ever played before!!! 
 No, it's an infantry simulation and this is for the hardcore games who like challenge. Don't expect 
 your self to finish the game in 2 days. You're gonna needs tactics and reflex to finish the game 
 and on the top of that is, gorgeous graphics and WWII deepest mood you can imagine. The only glitch 
 for me is the sound. EAX could be implant, better than that. For those who's wondering if you should 
 buy Hidden and Dangerous 2, ask you self: Do i want and arcade shooter like MOH or i want a simulation 
 like Ghost Recon or Operation Flashpoint (without the theater bla bla bla) ? For me, the best transaction 
 i made since a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stott
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 29, 2003 12:26 pm PT
Review:  It is an ok game which has been released unfinished to hit the market before Call of Duty, consequently 
 it is still bugged and shows as the first Hidden & Dangerous some creativity, good ideas, original 
 maps but an average and frustrating gameplay due to the buggs. I personaly always feel insulted 
 when I buy an infinished games because I don't pay them with an unfinished money. This practice 
 of bugged game shows how much the creator as much as the publisher sneer with contempt the consumer 
 and the profession without which they would not exist. This game feels like a commando operation, 
 it is a hit and run but with your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CANavar_76
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2003 11:38 am PT
Review:  Normal difficulty and 3rd/1st person mode (not tactical mode) impressions:
  
  - Both friendly and enemy AI is extremely buggy/incomplete. Reactions to orders, confrontations 
 w/ enemy at close range, etc cause absurd behaviour in NPC almost all the time. Really frustrating 
 gameplay due to weak AI. 
  
  Other examples (some are very common, others occasional) :
  
  - enemy soldiers surrender without any apparent reason (when they could have easily kill you)
 
  - friendly AI fall off stairs, walls, etc and die
  - friendly AI get stuck to doors, obstacles, vehicles and to each other !
  - enemy soldiers shooting 
 ability is inconsistent (superhuman shots from long distances, terrible shooting at short range) 
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphasnail7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2003 7:44 am PT
Review:  The Gamespot and SSS383 review is dead on about the atmosphere the game creates. Its one of the 
 most immerse games Ive ever played. In one of the first few missions I crawled through the snow 
 to a fence and cut a hole in it. A German guard spotted us moving to the hole and opened fire. 
 In the moonlight, I could see a dog handler a few hundred feet away set his Shepard loose on us. 
 Although other games have had scenarios like the one I described, Ive never seen it done this 
 well.
  
  The missions are challenging, but allow for several different ways to complete them. In some missions 
 you can be sneaky, or you can run and gun. In one mission I had to take out a tank over open ground, 
 but had several different options. I could have used anti-tank mines, another destroyed tanks 
 main gun, or Panzerfausts captured from dead foes.
  
  Im not sure that reviewer allenw007 and I are playing the same game. The way the game handles 
 vehicles and backpacks is absolute fantastic. Vehicles are dangerous to drive at high speeds, as 
 they should be. Backpacks are very well done. You can stash your pack somewhere safe so you can 
 temporarily carry more or move more easily, then come back for it later. (just remember not to 
 complete the mission without going back for it)
  
  I disagree with the Gamespot reviewer about the teammate AI. Although I have had them make some 
 occationally odd pathing choices, they have never done anything as bizzarre as the reveiwer mentions. 
 Perhaps I just havent played the game enough to see his point, but Ive found the AI to be substantially 
 better than most. I feel that my teammates choose excellent cover locations and cover the correct 
 angles. They shoot straight and seem to act more like elite soldiers than the useless baggage train 
 that is your teammates in the Rainbow Six series.
  
  I also disagree with the Gamespot review in regards to the interface. The numerous controls mentioned 
 by the reviewer are exactly the same as all of the other tactical-type shooters, including Americas 
 Army and Raven Shield. The one exception the climb command, which I think is a brilliant addition. 
 It lets you climb over things that other games would unrealistically make you go around.
  
  The lack of a quick reference card is definitely annoying, but not enough so to damage the games 
 overall appeal. Id rather no card than an incorrect one. While that is lacking, there are other 
 additions to the manual that make up for it. For example the manual has an explanation of small-unit 
 tactics that is substantially more informative than most games, while still being accessible to 
 the average Joe.
  
  I have had no issues with bugs whatsoever, but generally speaking the fact that I use last years 
 top of the line hardware (Athlon 1900, SB Live, Radeon 9700, etc.) means that I dont seem to suffer 
 from many of the bugs that others do.
  
  Also, Ive had no experience with the multiplayer, but the lack of co-op is a major disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickaepi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2003 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I must say I disagree with Gamespot's score for this game. I think this game is wonderfully done. 
 Yes, the key mapping was a pain at first and getting used to the amount of keys to use can be difficult, 
 but that is just the complexity of this game. I like it because it is challenging and extremely 
 rewarding when u complete a mission. If u notice the trend of gamespot's reviews, they give high 
 scores to almost all console platformer's or games by ea sports. So, their reviewers are arcade-minded 
 gamers and that is not really an unbiased opinion for their suscribers. Anyway, every pc game needs 
 patches. Look at games like battlefield 1942 and neverwinter nights. They have tons of patches 
 and they got great reviews (hmm, ea and an admittedly overrated game respectively by most gamer 
 sites) . Great job illusion/gathering on making a deep and quality title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2003 9:59 am PT
Review:  Hidden and Dangerous 2 is a great game, although the sometimes retarded AI and tricky control scheme 
 hold it back from being an awesome game. First off I have to comment on the extraordinary detail 
 the developers put into this game. I am so thankful that non-english speaking peoples actually 
 speak their own language in this game, it just makes the immersion factor much greater. There are 
 so many details around, such as authentic signs and equipment from the WWII era that add to the 
 greatness of the game.
  
  First off is gameplay. The gameplay here is very good overall, but the games AI and control interface 
 bring it down a little. The team AI in this game is the worst problem the game has and when joined 
 with the somewhat complex control scheme bad things happen. The team AI seems almost non existent 
 at times, except for the drive to shoot something if in the correct fire mode, (fire at will ect.) . 
 What I mean by this is that it seems you, the team director seems to control every single aspect 
 of what the team does, this means in a firefight if you want someone to throw a grenade and their 
 grenade is in their backpack you have to take control of that teammate, drop one of his weapons 
 on the ground, take the grenade out of his backpack and put it in his hand or pocket then he can 
 throw it or you can since you are already in control. This takes a very long time and I dont see 
 why they couldnt have been programmed to do this on their on. The team has a problem with cover 
 and concealment also. An example, when starting an ambush you call out take cover, this is understandable 
 since there was no reason for the team to take cover in the first place but instead of them getting 
 behind a tree and facing the enemy they kneel in the open and face all kind of directions, its 
 pointless. There also is no easy way to tell a teammate to move to somewhere, like in Operation 
 Flashpoint where you could use the map or the great control scheme after you got use to it. You 
 usually have to take control of the teammate and move him where you want him and face him in the 
 direction you want him faced. There is no control Ive discovered that lets you tell your team 
 the direction they should face which is a problem when observing large concentrations of enemy 
 where are shootout could begin at any second. One other thing is that teammates get stuck in doorways 
 and cant stack up before clearing a room. I guess the devs created this game as a player controls 
 all kind of game with other teammates acting as stationary fire support. Although all these problems 
 I listed seems like large gamebreakers they do not affect gameplay that much. The firefights still 
 go well after the firs shot is fired and the team gets their bearings, they are crack shots and 
 heavy weapons guys can give great covering fire for movement. On the bright side the enemy AI is 
 some of the best Ive seen in a shooter, thats still not saying much though since Ive not really 
 seen anything better since Half-Life years ago. The enemy tends to stay under cover and sneak around 
 in corridors after noticing you and move very cautiously threw areas of heavy cover like woods. 
 They also pop up and down out of trenches and take pot shots at you. I havent seen them shoot 
 around corners any though like in MOHAA. Like I said earlier though the gameplay is great other 
 than the spotty team Ai.
  
  The graphics of this game are awesome with no noticeable bad points. The skies are worth mentioning 
 as beautiful. There are no problems worth motioning.
  
  The sound has only 2 bad problems that I noticed. At times the sounds of weapons do not play, especially 
 the sniper rifles, I have no idea why and have tried to trouble shoot it with no avail. The only 
 other problem is the sounds for grenades, they are like some type of puff with dirt sound, they 
 suck, I hope they dont sound like this in real life. Other than these two thing the sounds are 
 awesome.
  
  All the other aspects of the game that I have had experience with are really great. The realism 
 factor of this game is pretty high and less like a WWII movie like MOHAA. Overall this game is 
 great but the devs could have added a few more weapons like rifle grenades, smoke grenades, the 
 scoped version of the Garande, and the worst flaw is that the Luger is the only pistol the Germans 
 have, this pistol was only owned by officers and had been replaced by the 
  P-38 pistol before WWII. There were a few other weapons gripes but thats about all. Buy this game 
 its awesome for WWII genre and squad shooter fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WulleBulle
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2003 1:41 am PT
Review:  Ye, what should I say. Remembering the first episode of this game I wasn't able to find fun with, 
 this absolutly genius sequel brings lots of tactical, although very easy to use, gameplay to you.
 
  Let me say that this game isn't a pure tactical shooter at all. This game ist just to show a huge 
 potential in the qy of tactical positioning of team members and covering flanks for the rest of 
 the team while they are advancing against the enemy. First I thought, damn, another planing orgy 
 producing tactical shooter. There are little bugs (especially the invalid CD-Key message in MP 
 mode) like some clipping errors and KI issues. But all in all I haven't had as much fun like with 
 this game. My team works for me and with me. I can easily deploy orders on each teammember or the 
 whole team. Too tricky I saw the use of the tactical map. There need to be more transparency on 
 the orders to the player. I decided not to use the tactical map and found the game much more funny 
 than with it.
  Buy HD2.... it's one of the best tactical shooter games on the market at this time. Buy it, if you 
 like more action and less planing. Don't buy it if you are an hardcore strategic or like to control 
 your team just over a tactical map with less action interacting by yourself.
  Have fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenw007
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 27, 2003 11:58 am PT
Review:  Not really much new here compared to similar games on the market. On the H&D website it states 
 that each object in the game has weight, such as doors and walls, and you will have to determine 
 if you can shoot through them. I wish the AI could do that also. The enemy AI will duck down around 
 a corner and just let loose a barrage of bullets right into the corner of the wall for some reason 
 (although 1 or 2 of those bullets somehow make it through the wall and hit me. I have killed at 
 least one enemy through a concrete wall with one shot, so I do not think Illusions weight theory 
 is working. By the way, I played the original H&D for months and loved every minute of it, but 
 that was before the Rainbow 6 series, Ghost Recon, MOHAA, Operation Flashpoint (best game ever) , 
 and Battlefield 1942. The game installed easily and started with no problems whatsoever, but you 
 better be ready to use some serious hard drive space because the game is on 3 packed cd's. In summary, 
 the game is good, not great. Here are some gameplay issues/bugs I have found through the first 
 3 levels:
  
  1) Clipping is a problem (guns & bodies sticking through walls, tables, etc.)
  2) Forget driving 
 vehicles, they are hard to control and you can get hurt running into things.
  3) Can't use items in your backpack unless you move them to your pouch (you have to open the inventory 
 screen and drag it over) . Who else wants to do this when you are in the middle of a battle?
  4) Same as most other FPS, the enemy has superhuman vision and shooting ability (they see you well 
 before you see them, your only hope is that one of your team who also has superhuman vision can 
 say "ENEMY SPOTTED" before you walk right into an ambush) .
  5) Your squad ain't that smart. 1st level, two of my three AI controlled squad were properly with 
 me inside a building having a building to building shoot-out with the enemy but the third guy (who 
 was issued the same "follow me" command as the others) decided it would be better to be outside 
 the building, right in front, right under a street light. He was wrong.
  6) Enemy AI will empty their entire clip into a tree, wall, or any other object you are behind. 
 Thats not proper ammunition conservation, but who knows, they may have unlimited ammunition.
  7) Although I am not positive, I have a suspicion that enemy respawning is occuring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2003 9:43 am PT
Review:  The game is really good, its a very different feeling from MOHAA or other run and gun sort of shooters. 
 You can just charge in but you will probably end up getting lit up. I went into multiplayer mode 
 just to see what some of the other environments look like. The graphics are very good and you will 
 probably not see better graphics in a WWII game untill MOHPA comes out or maybe Call of Duty. The 
 one thing really stood out to me was the music and the sound, its some of the best I have ever 
 heard in a game. 
  
  Test system specs
  P4 2.53Ghz
  512MB PC3500 DDR
  Windows XPpro
  Radon 9700pro (cat 3.8)
  directx 9.0b
  Logitech thx 5.1 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoloJon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2003 10:20 am PT
Review:  I bought Hidden & Dangerous 2 last night, and couldn't tear myself away from it. It's a really 
 fun game, but, for some reason, they removed the ability to play through the entire game cooperatively 
 (as one could in the first H&D, if I remember correctly) . The multiplayer feels like a more realistic 
 version of Battlefield 1942, but honestly I didn't get to try it out for very long -- the real fun 
 for me last night was the detailed and engaging single player. It's a first/third person shooter, 
 but it's also a tactical game, in which you can develop fairly detailed (but simple to create) 
 "plans" for each member of your commando team -- and the interface works like a much cleaner, more 
 functional version of UFO: Aftermath.
  
  (SPOILERS BELOW) 
  
  The attention to detail is very good, with small details about the war and how it was fought slipped 
 in as part of the immersive flavor. The first mission is a high altitude parachute drop over Norway 
 and in the opening in-game rendered cinematic, the Jump Commander warns your team to breathe through 
 their noses and not to talk too much, as "the breath will freeze in your mask." Lots of little 
 touches like that -- and the Germans speak german (with subtitles where warranted) , instead of just 
 having German accents.
  
  The game plays like a well-coordinated version of Hitman 2; the second portion of the Norway mission 
 has you capturing a German soldier, stealing his clothing (you must capture them by catching them 
 unawares and shooting over their heads, a la Metal Gear Solid, for if you shoot or stab them, telltale 
 blood will render the uniform unusable) , to photograph specimens from a German research project -- 
 or not, as the game is quite open-ended in regards to solutions. One could conceivably use stealth 
 and a judicious use of firepower to eliminate the opposition, then take pictures at one's leisure, 
 before blowing the place all to hell.
  
  Prior to the Norway mission is sort of a tutorial, at an SAS boot camp. One of your "training objectives" 
 is to go to a shooting range to learn how to use some of the more common weapons. Upon first playing, 
 I walked up to what I thought was the entrance and the trooper there told me to move along -- the 
 sign right above the door is clearly marked "Exit." Chagrined, I walked around to the other side 
 of the building and completed my weapon training. At the exit, my instructor comments favorably 
 on my shooting skills to which the trooper replied, "HIM? Well, I hope he can shoot better than 
 he can read!" in a suitably arrogant British accent.
  
  Curious, I tried the mission again, this time moving to the correct entrance to the shooting range, 
 on the /first/ try. At the completion of my training, the trooper replied differently, "Well that's 
 good news, most of these new recruits are as dumb as posts," or something to that effect.
  
  Anyway, I can tell the designers put a lot of effort into this game, and I'm surprised it's 
 not getting more press. There are so many little details that add to the immersion -- the languages 
 sound authentic and everything feels very real -- signs in the Nazi base are all in German, of course; 
 all those little things add up to a truly satisfying gaming experience. 
  
  So far there are only a couple of gripes, although I've only played through the first training 
 mission and am about half way through the first real mission -- The control scheme is a little strange, 
 but thankfully it can be completely remapped (and for FPS fans, I recommend doing so -- some of 
 the default mapping is strange, but there are a LOT of key commands) . The first H&D was pretty 
 buggy and the tactical mode didn't work very well. It's all been fixed, as the game was very stable 
 (with only one crash to the desktop in the six or so hours I found myself wrapped up in it) , and 
 the tactical mode works very well (more RTS-like now) , although the camera seems to be a little 
 tricky at times and doesn't zoom out as far as I'd like. The graphics are excellent, and while 
 I'm not sure they're DX9, it looks fabulous.
  
  In conclusion, while I have been anticipating it since it was announced, the game still ended being 
 a pleasant surprise. Even though the WW II genre has been done over and over recently; it was a 
 refreshing find.
  
  --Jon Solo 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
