-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hidden & Dangerous 2: Sabre Squadron
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hiddendangerous2sabresquadron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 237 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: Illusion Softworks
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 21, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The real draw of Sabre Squadron's offerings is the chance to play its new missions cooperatively. 
 

  Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2, a tactical squad-based shooter set during World War II, failed to address 
 many of the flaws in the original Hidden &amp; Dangerous. Sabre Squadron, the new mission pack 
 for Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2, likewise fails to address many of the problems in its parent game. 
 Nevertheless, it still offers a lot of solid, new material that fans should enjoy, including the 
 cooperative play mode that was conspicuously absent from Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2.  

          Not your usual commute... Some POWs need rescuing.     

  Sabre Squadron adds nine new 
 missions that are set in different combat theaters, and you can play them solo or cooperatively 
 online. You also get eight diverse, new multiplayer maps. Furthermore, a few new weapons and drivable 
 vehicles, like Sherman tanks, round out the package.  

  The game's box also boasts improved artificial intelligence as a major feature of this latest Hidden 
 &amp; Dangerous offering. However, this seems misleading, because if the AI's been significantly 
 improved, it sure is hard to notice. From the very first mission, you see that your computer-controlled 
 squadmates again need frequent direction and handholding. Your fellow soldiers can again wander 
 far afield and end up widely separated from the rest of your men, though at least not as frequently 
 as before. They again allow themselves to be blasted to pieces when they could easily have ducked, 
 run for cover, or shot the enemy first. They again block doorways and otherwise get in your way. 
 They constantly get in each other's lines of fire and then complain about it instead of simply 
 moving. For elite SAS soldiers, these guys exhibit pretty shoddy tactical skills and aim. The enemy 
 AI won't win any prizes, either. You can literally shoot the helmet off a German soldier and watch 
 in amusement as he just stands there without reacting. Most of the time your enemy puts up a decent 
 enough fight, though.  

  Sabre Squadron also fails to address the micromanagement and control issues that plagued Hidden 
 &amp; Dangerous 2. Movement again feels a bit sluggish and awkward. It still takes too long to 
 fiddle with your characters' inventories. Instead of simply pressing a single button to heal yourself, 
 for example, you often need to open your inventory screen, transfer a first aid kit from your backpack 
 and in to your character's ready supply of gear, then press another button to choose the first 
 aid kit from among that gear, and, finally, press another button to use it. You can easily spend 
 as much time juggling inventory items and searching for the right controls as you do fighting. 

          Welcome to sunny Sicily. Now keep your head down.     

  As for the new missions, they're solid but are rather inconspicuous. You'll infiltrate a sprawling 
 German submarine pen complex to destroy a couple of docked U-boats. You'll rescue downed airmen 
 from an Axis garrison in North Africa. Then you'll race through an enemy-infested canyon to get 
 to the crashed aircraft so you can destroy its top secret equipment before the enemy can get its 
 paws on it. You'll get to mount a dusk raid on a series of German gun emplacements in Sicily, help 
 defend a bridge against enemy infantry and tanks, blow up an ammo dump, and more.  

  As in the original game, you'll get plenty of opportunities to roar around in jeeps, steal enemy 
 weapons and gear, snipe from afar, sneak through bunkers, blow up tanks, and perform other daring 
 feats. While the missions offer multiple objectives, plenty of combat, and tactically interesting 
 environments, it's nevertheless hard to get particularly excited about them. They mostly feel like 
 uninspired reruns of the original Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 missions or missions from similar games, 
 like Medal of Honor Allied Assault or Call of Duty. In fact, some of Sabre Squadron's missions 
 essentially repeat themselves with multiple POW rescues. You'll get a big sense of WWII dj 
 vu playing Sabre Squadron.  

  On the bright side, Sabre Squadron also offers eight new multiplayer maps designed for the game's 
 three existing multiplayer modes. You'll fight through a sea of bombed-out buildings and rubble 
 in Poland, for example, where it's quite a sniper's paradise. In another map, you'll battle for 
 control of high-altitude Alpine roads and bridges. One new map also lets you fight through a snowy 
 wasteland that's crisscrossed by trenches and bunkers, while another one lets you hop in tanks 
 so you can duke it out in a ruined Norman city.  

  The real draw of Sabre Squadron's offerings is the chance to play its new missions cooperatively -- while 
 online. It can be a blast to fight alongside smart human players instead of foolhardy computer-controlled 
 comrades. The tension and rewards are greater than when playing solo, and you don't have to waste 
 time herding your AI allies around; instead, you can just concentrate on tactics.  

  Just getting started with multiplayer can be a bit of a hassle, though. We had to switch to a different 
 firewall and then manually reconfigure it before being able to connect to any servers. We also 
 found that servers are currently running a variety of versions of the game. Regardless of which 
 patch we installed, we found many servers grayed out in the server browser. We experienced a number 
 of problems merely connecting, in addition to enduring lag and disconnects once we finally got 
 online.  

  While Sabre Squadron offers plenty of new maps and missions, it doesn't seem to add anything substantial 
 to the visuals or audio in Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2. It would have been nice to have seen some 
 upgrades to keep up with the times, but Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2's graphics still look attractive, 
 even if they've aged a bit. The environments again get the deluxe treatment, and display a meticulous 
 attention to detail. Barracks look like real, lived-in places, with papers scattered on tables, 
 carpets a bit askew, propaganda posters on the wall, and other little details that suitably set 
 the scene. Landscapes are dotted with little wildflowers or gnarled, old trees jutting from rocky 
 soil, while vehicles and uniforms again look pretty convincing.  

          A few allied NPCs appear to work with your team.     

  You'll hear the same sound effects, 
 voice-overs, and music as before, and, once again, they're all quite good. Voice-over artists really 
 act and speak in the appropriate languages (with optional subtitles) , and weapons and vehicles 
 sound powerful. The music is well orchestrated, though it would be nice to not have to hear the 
 same few tracks repeated over and over and over.  

  Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2: Sabre Squadron is a good expansion to the original game. It's true that 
 the new missions feel like ones you've already played before, and it's also true that major micromanagement 
 and AI problems -- again -- rear their ugly heads. Moreover, some serious bugs can cause the game to 
 lock up or fail to save and load games properly, among various other issues. Beyond its co-op play, 
 most Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 players probably won't find too much of interest in Sabre Squadron. 
 However, fans of the game should by all means check it out, particularly since it retails for only 
 about $10. That's a lot of WWII bang for your buck.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Hidden And Dangerous 2 Sabre Squadron is a Expansion Pack that doesn't offer many new things, but 
 just extends the fun and immersive experience of Hidden And Dangerous 2.
  
  NOTE: This Review is short, only because i consider this Review a part of my Review for Hidden 
 And Dangerous 2, be sure to check that Review out too!
  
  Hidden And Dangerous 2 Sabre Squadron is almost in every way, just like Hidden And Dangerous 2, 
 but it offers more fun and interesting missions as well as some new weapons and shockingly beautiful 
 environments. Some of the missions are even more interesting than those of Hidden And Dangerous 
 2, but overall, it is just a well made extension to a very well made tactical WW-II shooter.
  
  The gameplay is just the same as that of Hidden And Dangerous 2. A useful new thing however 
 is the changes made to the use of medpacks. Now instead of using a medpack once, it will have a 
 meter showing how much "juice" is left in it and this makes it extremely useful to equip a large 
 medpack on every member of your team. The gameplay certainly hasn't gotten any worse, its quite 
 the opposite. Some missions in familiar environments (the desert for instance) are actually much 
 more beautiful and immersive than those of the original game. You will also be taken to some new 
 locations like Italy, where there is one mission where you have to defend a bridge from german 
 attack. Those missions offer some of the most intense and tactical battles ever seen. There are 
 also some new weapons, but it won't be that important to you if you liked Hidden And Dangerous 
 2.
  
  The graphics have stayed the same, but at some points (Italy and Africa) the game seems to look 
 even more prettier than Hidden And Dangerous 2. In Italy for instance, the tall grass flying in 
 the wind just looks sounds (and almost smells) so real that you feel like you could just reach 
 out and touch it. This is quite a accomplishment for a game running on a graphics engine made about 
 4 years ago.
  
  The sound is every bit as great as that of Hidden And Dangerous 2, nothing more needs to be said.
 
  
  The controls are also the same as in Hidden And Dangerous 2.
  
  As in Hidden And Dangerous 2, the only thing making you play through the game is either the Lone 
 Wolf mode or the fun gameplay.
  
  Overall Hidden And Dangerous 2 Sabre Squadron is a must-have for anyone who played Hidden And Dangerous 
 2. It might not add much new material, but the new missions themselves are reason enough to get 
 this Expansion Pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ownald
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  The is a problem with this game, and that's the handling. I can't get that weird moving guy under 
 my control. He reacts very slow to my mouse commands and I hate that. But I like the gameplay, 
 the multiplayer gameplay.
  
  The Co-op gameplay mode is just fantastic! Fight with your "human" team against a computer controlled 
 team. This game is based on teamwork and I like that. The handling is bad and that disappoints 
 me, this game really needs a better handling. Changing the mouse sensitivity doesn't work btw... 
 
  
  Conclusion, the handling is bad but the gameplay is fantastic. Maybe H&D3 comes with a new handling...?? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revert979
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 12, 2004 7:44 am PT
Review:  Good expansion. The thing about this game is it's extremely immersive if you give it the chance. 
 It can be very frustrating at times with all the controls and the overall feel (characters move 
 kind of clunky) . But once you get more of a feel for it it really shines at what it does. It does 
 a good job of creating atmosphere and tension as well as the belief that your behind enemy lines. 
 It's also fairly lengthy for an expansion. 
  Graphics are still pretty good but starting to look a little dated, and overall it seems to be 
 less buggy than the original H&D2 game. The framerate on my computer was low and inconsistent with 
 the game itself but seems to have been smoothed over more in the expansion. Other than that I never 
 really had any problems running either or. To make a long story short, if you liked H&D2 and want 
 more you can't go wrong considering it's only ten bucks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
