-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hidden & Dangerous
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hiddendangerous/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 16, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.7, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 404 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Illusion Softworks
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jul 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although it's unstable and flawed, Hidden & Dangerous is nonetheless an impressive and uniquely 
 serious depiction of squad-level combat behind enemy lines. 

 Hidden &amp; Dangerous represents the new breed of realistic squad-based action games, which demand 
 shooter-style reflexes only in short controlled bursts and only during those dangerous moments 
 when the enemy is actually in sight. Otherwise, high tension and anticipation dominate gameplay, 
 as you carefully edge your way through enemy territory, hoping you aren't detected en route. In 
 Hidden &amp; Dangerous in particular, you'll edge your way through all kinds of German-occupied 
 territory during World War II, commanding up to four soldiers to get in, clear up, and get out 
 of situations that would be completely overwhelming if not for the element of surprise on your 
 side. The game looks good and feels convincing, and although it's unstable and flawed and otherwise 
 every bit as difficult as you would expect, Hidden &amp; Dangerous is nonetheless an impressive 
 and uniquely serious depiction of squad-level combat behind enemy lines.  

 They couldn't have thought too hard in naming the Insanity graphics engine that powers Hidden &amp; 
 Dangerous, but the developers at Illusion Softworks must have put a lot of time into making it 
 look good. Almost all the nearly two dozen missions in the game are completely different and take 
 place during all kinds of weather conditions during all hours of the day and even on different 
 terrain, from midair to the high seas. You can play from either a third- or first-person perspective, 
 with the former being better suited to maneuvering, while the latter is ideal for targeting, and 
 the game looks good either way. There's a lot of visual variety in Hidden &amp; Dangerous as well, 
 though none of it is too detailed if you stop and stare. Your troops and the enemy, while blocky-looking 
 at times, are finely articulated with realistic motion-captured animation and clearly discernible 
 weapons. Though those weapons sound a little weak, the game's thunderous explosions and other ambient 
 effects, not to mention its booming orchestral soundtrack that responds to the action onscreen, 
 all help to make the game's environments totally convincing. And you'll feel the tension every 
 time you put an unassuming grunt in your sights.  

 While your reflexes will make all the difference when you square off against the enemy, you'll never 
 even have a chance to test them unless you plan your every step and navigate carefully and slowly. 
 Most every German soldier you'll face has keen vision and incredible marksmanship to match, meaning 
 if he sees you before you see him, you're dead. Of course you'll have three men remaining with 
 whom to accomplish the mission, but you'll probably end up retrying every encounter until all your 
 troops make it home. In order to survive, you need to inch your way forward, keeping out of sight, 
 using binoculars or a sniper scope to make sure the coast is clear. You must be ready to dispatch 
 any guards or patrols quickly, and you must make sure your own snipers have submachine-gun backup 
 in the event of a close encounter. You can also coordinate more complicated maneuvers thanks to 
 an overhead tactical map that lets you sequence simultaneous actions as though you were composing 
 music, but this coordination demands a lot of practice.  

 Even if you take every precaution, Hidden &amp; Dangerous still demands trial and error. You'll 
 witness your men get gunned down mercilessly time after time, but once you know where the threat 
 is coming from (the camera conveniently zooms to your soldier's killer) , you'll stand a better 
 chance of circumventing disaster the next time around. Then again, being able to aim well and shoot 
 first and survive is only half the problem. Before each mission and campaign in Hidden &amp; Dangerous, 
 you need to select your team and their equipment. The idea, apparently, is for you to anticipate 
 the obstacles you'll face and to deploy and pack accordingly, but the execution of this planning 
 phase isn't much fun. Of the three dozen-odd soldiers at your disposal, only a few excel at marksmanship, 
 reaction time, or stealth. Once you realize troops with high shooting scores are perfect snipers 
 while those with good reactions make ideal backup, you'll find yourself using the same soldiers 
 again and again. It doesn't help matters that all your soldiers basically look and sound identical. 

 Outfitting your team with equipment is an especially cumbersome affair, as the game's completely 
 counterintuitive interface forces you to transfer items and ammo to your men individually and with 
 far too many mouse clicks. In fact, this clunky interface invades the entire game, and you'll feel 
 it worst when you realize it takes about five steps to load a saved game, whereas it ought to take 
 one. Although the game does offer an option for the computer to outfit your squad for you automatically, 
 it may just as well be a self-destruct button since this so-called feature results in a game crash 
 more often than not.  

 That the computer-assisted equipment selection is broken is the first evidence that much is amiss 
 with Hidden &amp; Dangerous, whose technical flaws are manifest in countless ways. There's little 
 question, for instance, that the game's artificial intelligence has serious problems. Setting point-A-to-point-B 
 waypoints for your troops oftentimes results in their frolicking all about the map as though it 
 were a Family Circus cartoon rather than a Nazi internment camp. Although enemy soldiers are preposterously 
 and unreasonably accurate, they're dumb as rocks otherwise and ignore their dead and fail to work 
 together to stop you. They merely lie in wait or patrol about and do not respond to hostile situations 
 in a convincing fashion. At least they die realistically. And aside from AI and interface problems, 
 the game is chock-full of glitches and crashes and other inconsistencies. Your men perish if they 
 fall so much as three feet. Sometimes they float in the air, or their weapons vanish, or texture 
 maps drop out. And the camera goes wild, the game crashes whenever, and so on. You shouldn't have 
 to put up with problems like these, especially within what's essentially a good game.  

 Yet such flaws can be tolerable if you choose for them to be. The fact is this game looks good and 
 its missions are big, unique, and complicated, even as the tension continues to mount with each 
 one. Hidden &amp; Dangerous is the only convincing World War II tactical combat simulation out 
 there, and it can be an immensely satisfying experience during those rare times that you successfully 
 coordinate your men to achieve one of the game's multifaceted objectives. Ultimately, if its premise 
 appeals to you, then Hidden &amp; Dangerous is worth all the effort it takes to play. At the same 
 time, you'll feel frustrated that it isn't perfect, since it comes so close in so many different 
 ways.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  After the runaway success of Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six, it was only natural for the rest of the 
 industry to try to grab a piece of the pie with their own 3D squad-based tactical action games. 
 The wargame gurus at TalonSoft are the latest to step up to the plate with Hidden &amp; Dangerous, 
 a World War Two-era lark that almost elevates squad-based gameplay to the next level - but is tripped 
 up by an avalanche of unforgivable bugs.
  
  Hidden &amp; Dangerous unfolds through six linear campaigns, ranging from surgical strikes to escort 
 missions throughout war-torn Europe. Before each campaign, you select four commandos and deck them 
 out with as much firepower as they can carry. You'll probably want to do this manually, as the 
 included auto-equip button is pretty skimpy on ammo and explosives. From there, you're presented 
 with a slick 3D mission briefing, with flashing arrows and other visual aids guiding you to your 
 goal. Smack the start button, and let the Nazi-slaughtering commence!
  
  At first glance, Hidden &amp; Dangerous will bring back memories of Zombie's Spec Ops, with its 
 similar third-person view tracking your squad members. However, a keypress will drop you into a 
 Quake-style first-person mode, which is indispensable for navigating the game's indoor environments. 
 Using the keypad, you can bark orders to your fellow commandos, or simply switch characters and 
 let the computer take control of the other soldiers.
  
  As its name implies, Hidden &amp; Dangerous places a large emphasis on remaining unseen. Attempting 
 to overcome opponents with raw firepower will dig you an early grave, and the only sure way to 
 succeed is via picking off silhouettes of enemy troopers through the fog; you'll spend much of 
 the game crouched or lying down, gazing through the sights of a sniper scope. Hidden &amp; Dangerous 
 has realistic damage levels, even on the easiest modes - one well-placed sniper shot is going to 
 kill, no matter what difficulty level you've selected.
  
  The missions are well-structured and expertly paced, and range from woodland guerrilla combat to 
 the storming of Nazi-occupied mansions. The levels reflect a deliciously tense atmosphere, and 
 the game's Czech developers have done a bang-up job of bringing 1940s Europe to life - several 
 of the environments are real stunners, and the sound effects are moody and subtle. The mission 
 where you scrounge through a sinking German destroyer is nothing short of fantastic, with the sounds 
 of creaking supports and dripping water constantly putting you on edge.
  
  The bad news is you'll have to get used to a control scheme that's more annoying than a looping 
 MP3 of Tiny Tim's Tiptoe Through the Tulips. Mouse control is a sloppy mess, and swapping between 
 viewpoints is disorienting when using sniper weapons. You'll also discover that you're locked into 
 a certain firing radius when in first-person mode, making it impossible to aim more than 45 degrees 
 in either direction. The sniper mode is nothing short of chaotic, with your player character neglecting 
 to reload and even dropping the weapon occasionally. Sometimes the sights disappear altogether. 
 It just doesn't make any sense.
  
  Hidden &amp; Dangerous includes plenty of controllable vehicles. You can pile your commandos into 
 trucks and armored cars for a pistol-packing joyride, which sounds like a lot of fun until you 
 actually try to deal with the controls - aiming the roof-mounted cannon while driving is cumbersome, 
 and most vehicles cant go above 3mph when driving up a hill, forcing the driver to zig-zag back 
 and forth to get anywhere. In certain missions, you can drive on top of the water. (Bug or amphibious 
 vehicle? You be the judge.) But poor control aside, it's indescribably cool to drive an armored 
 car across enemy lines with two sniper buddies leaning out the back picking off pursuers.
  
  Once you start each mission, you have a little while to gather your bearings and start directing 
 your men. Or trying to direct them, anyway - the members of my particular suicide squad apparently 
 missed basic training, neglecting to learn such rules of thumb as Don't step into flames, Don't 
 walk onto land mines left by your squadmates, and Don't jump into lakes and drown. While the dumbness 
 of the AI doesn't approach the idiocy of, say, eXtreme Paintbrawl, there are far too many instances 
 where a squad member bites the dust thanks to an unbelievably stupid maneuver. And whatever you 
 do, dont equip a guy with a bazooka and let the AI take over - he'll probably blow the entire 
 squad apart while shooting at an enemy.
  
  This crappy AI completely invalidates the top-down strategic view, which (in theory, anyway) allows 
 you to set waypoints and plot out the actions of your characters. The manual and the strategy guide 
 suggest using this mode heavily - but whenever I tried planning out my movements, my soldiers walked 
 in circles and accidentally shot each other. The whole exercise reminded me of trying to teach 
 my cat to do tricks.
  
  Also glaringly noticeable is the poor collision detection. Climbing out of trenches or getting 
 off boats is a nightmare, and when moving through tight spaces, it's not uncommon for one squad 
 member to clip through a wall and fall to his death. With so many deadly bugs, you'd expect some 
 sort of quick-load button to restart a mission. Nope - you have to quit back to the main menu, 
 re-select the campaign, re-select the mission you were playing, then click the load button (you're 
 limited to one saved game per mission) . Sigh.
  
  With six more months of tuning and tweaking, Hidden &amp; Dangerous could have been a triple-A 
 product - but as it currently stands, holiday-ready, this game will only appeal to the most patient 
 and forgiving hardcore fans of the squad-based combat genre. My best advice is to hit the Internet 
 and check the post-release buzz on this game - if TalonSoft releases significant patches that fix 
 the game up, Hidden &amp; Dangerous may be a worthy addition to your Start menu. As of now, the 
 only things hidden and dangerous in this game are the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Main Concept: This game was a third person squad based shooter for the PC, which right away is 
 what leads to some of its downfall. Third Person + PC does not work at all. Hidden and Dangerous 
 is one of the many WW2 games that have come out over the last generation of gaming consoles. This 
 game came out when the PSX Medal of Honor games were popular, so a WW2 game was welcome back then. 
 Now today however World War Two games have to have something about them that makes them special 
 and different from the rest. This game was a third person squad based shooter for the PC, which 
 right away is what leads to some of its downfall. Third Person + PC does not work at all. That 
 is what makes this game so completely unplayable. But hey, this game is a free download. This game 
 has some pretty nice graphics considering the time that it came out. They must have been pretty 
 top-notch back in 1999, but anyway this is definitely the game's strong point. This game is a very 
 nice looking game. The presentation is very nice as well. By the presentation I mean that the briefings 
 are done well. They are very innovative, and its nice to see that back then someone got something 
 right and did not make you have to read your briefing, but it was displayed right in front of you. 
 Graphics are the best part of this game. Yes, now we get to the controls. The thing that single 
 handedly ruined this game. This game has the worse controls I have every seen. They are very bad. 
 You just might as well change the configuration to your liking before you even start playing, because 
 you will be switching back and forth between the menu and the game the entire first level. I think 
 that if this game would have been in first person, because with bad controls comes bad camera. 
 If there is a right angle in a wall, and you are on one side, and the enemy is on the other, you 
 just might as well have you guy commit suicide, because he will die either way. If this game were 
 in first person this would not be a problem, not to mention that the team commands are horrible 
 as well. This game sucks only because of its controls. Level wise, this game does have some very 
 innovative things about it. There are three different campaigns. The first one is World War Two, 
 and the last one is modern day, leaving the second one in the middle. This is a very innovative 
 thing because in each campaign there are missions, and there are like three levels in each mission, 
 making the game somewhat long. This is a good thing once you finally get the controls down and 
 they don't completely ruin you time playing. This game is a great attempt at something new, but 
 it fails miserably all because the controls suck really badly. This game has great innovation, 
 but lacks the things that are needed to make the game fun to play. I said it before and I will 
 say it again, since this game came out before the big wave of World War Two games, it could have 
 been a squad-based shooter, but been in first person instead. The controls ruin this game. This 
 game is free though, but I think it was just so they could try to get people into the series before 
 the second one was released, but this game gives me more than one reason that I do not want to 
 at all play the second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  I remember some years ago that i was playing this incredible game! At that period was a revolutionary 
 game! Was great and i think that is still great!!
  
  If games like Starcraft (that was released the same year of H&amp; D) has a so high score in they're 
 category this game deserves a higher score in his one!!!
  
  Graphics: on my opinion were very very good, we have to remember that this game was released on 
 1999! good movies on startup of every campaign!
  Sound: normal, good soundtrack good dialogs
  Game play: the difficulty was just right and the 
 AI of enemies was great. Germans troops adopted ingenious strategies to find and kill you! They're 
 best troops are SS and in the game you can find them in a few missions and they are strong to kill! (obviously 
 if you set easy difficulty the game will be very easy. I think that medium o hard is a good challenge) ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samisaround
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 19, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Here's some game you could try if you want something between Delta Force and Deadly Dozen, but 
 also something that's totally different. Hidden And Dangerous is a World War II simulator.
  I first had the demo, which I did find tough and challenging. But once you get the hang of the 
 game, it's real fun. In fact, this is one game you can think of completing, even though it might 
 seem to overcome a newbie. Plus, you'll really feel triumphant at the completion of certain missions.
 
  Every mission is different from the other. From invasion to holding post, assault to defence, 
 and exploration to rescue, it's one strategic action packed compilation... now that's a term which 
 you don't use quite often.
  The idea of a time freezing map to set strategic movements simultaneously is innovative. Even the 
 idea of taking more than one person into a mission is cool.
  The graphics are okay, or maybe just enough. The sounds and special effects are satisfactory. The 
 music and the character animation are good. Handling of the game is a bit unstable, but way better 
 than many other games of the same category. This instability is because of the inventory and the 
 navigation of the soldiers, both on the map and on the ground. But that wouldn't be a problem after 
 a few hours of playing. Considering the levels, they are beautifully done up. But to start with 
 a night mission, and the fact that one of the first missions (the third one to be precise) is in 
 pitch black, may make some beginners go crazy. You may have to raise the gamma and brightness to 
 get thrugh the third mission.
  With all things said, Hidden And Dangerous is one game that should be tried out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  In Hidden & Dangerous you'll steal enemy vehicles, be chased across Germany by pursuing Tiger tanks, blow 
 up a U-Boat and rescue secret information from a sinking German battleship. Other factors such as 
 snow, rain, wind, fog and time of day dramatically effact each mission dynamically. Adding a great 
 deal to how the mission evolve is asystem of complete non-linearit. Because each enemy unit is controlled 
 by its own AI and works off of events that take place during the mission, how the mission evolves 
 is affected but not dependant on the player. whereas most games nowadays are driven by scripting, such 
 as in Half-life, and are therefore linear based, Hidden & Dangerous is not. And in my opinion this 
 offers a more complete overall gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AronBk
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  It's true. Even though the original version of the game (the one I played) was seriously crippled 
 by bugs, the fact remains. Hidden and Dangerous is the best war-game ever. 
  
  It's not the individual game-elements that make HaD the best war-game up to date, it's the way 
 it all comes together to create an atmosphere that no other game can rival. 
  
  It's all about authenticity. It looks right, sounds right, and, despite the bugs, it feels right. 
 You immediately get sucked into the tension, you fear for life as you sneak around the dark alleys 
 trying to avoid the german guards, and you wipe the sweat from your forehead as you manage to clear 
 the runway and take off, with a whole German battalion at your heels. Play the mission on board 
 the sinking ship and you'll know what I'm talking about.
  
  There also a great tactical depth to Hidden and Dangerous. At any time you can access the tactical 
 screen and assign individual orders to your men (if you do well there's four of them) . A burst 
 of rounds will most certainly kill you, and you have to advance slowly. The best way is to let 
 the enemy come to you. Aiming and moving don't go together very well in this game (no bug, just 
 realism) .
  
  Hidden and Dangerous is, hopefully, as close as you ever get to war.
  
  What are you waiting for? It's free. It's updated. Go download it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: focult
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2004 1:45 am PT
Review:  This game has you playing as a squad of 4 british special forces units fighting in WW2 against 
 the nazia in many locals, with missions involving blowing up bridges, geting documents, general 
 just trying to make the nazis have a hard go at it
  
  pretty simple.
  
  The squad AI is really super bad, if you play this alone you will probably hate it. give one of 
 your squad mates a rocket launcher if you want him to kill all of you ;) i swear he is trying to 
 rocket jump or somehting...
  
  anywho.. here is the BIG SECRET! the thing that actually makes this game really fun. 4 player co-op. 
 thats right... a game that is mediocar at best turns into a GREAT game if you can replace all the 
 computer controlled squadmates with friends...
  
  Me and three of my friends at work would play this game after hours for about a month ( beat the 
 game ) and it was a BLAST! some of the missions are just to mutch... one of them has a full briefing 
 about how you are going to fly into a nazi encampment and parachute out of a bomber.. fair enough... 
 as soon as the mission starts you bomber gets shot down! you are deep behind enemy lines, and low 
 on ammo. you need to re-group and fight your way to your target. it was really awsome, a great 
 time.
  
  Whenever one of my friends couldn't play we just stuck the AI controlled guy in a corner of the 
 map and left him there, only switching to him if one of us died, or running him to the exit after 
 we killed everyone in th elevel.
  
  This game may be a little old, but i urge you to try and find several copies and have a lan party... 
 but please... find at least 3 friends! If you are a fan of WW2 this one is a keeper...
  
  How my scores break down:
  Gameplay: I am ranking this one based on the great variety of missions. 
 their are some really heartpounding parts of this game. Also it has supurb gameplay with friends 
 along for the ride.
  
  Graphics: really good for their time... no it isn't farcry or doom 3, but for it's time it was 
 pretty.
  
  Sound: I really liked the soundtrack and soundFX in this game, sound was also a great gameplay 
 element as well... hiding in the bushes listening for the enemy.
  
  Value: Worth every penny, you can probably find it for under yen bucks by now. I payed 50 bucks 
 and didn; t regret it at all.
  
  Tilt: I need to give this one a ten, it was probably the best time i have ever had playing a game 
 with friends. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
