-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: High Heat Major League Baseball 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/highheatmajorleagueb2002/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 36 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date:     Mar 14, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As outstanding as the core elements of High Heat 2002 undoubtedly are, it's hard to emerge from 
 an extended session of gameplay without some serious misgivings. 

 High Heat Major League Baseball 2002 is the perfect example of what happens when a good game is 
 released too soon. Thanks to a mad rush to get the game onto store shelves prior to Opening Day, 
 3DO has provided a baseball experience that has more bugs than a block of condemned houses. It 
 is by turns both remarkably fulfilling and incredibly frustrating. Some aspects of the game will 
 really impress you; others will make you want to throw your monitor out the window.           The 
 Yankees and Dodgers return to Ebbets Field    

 These flaws blemish nearly every aspect of this feature-rich game. Though you can still play in 
 custom leagues over multiple seasons, a computer-controlled roster bug will cause crashes to the 
 desktop. Seasons thus affected are unplayable until you manually edit some of the computer teams 
 to add players back to their lineups. Though you can still log on to the Internet and challenge 
 opponents across the country, lag is so atrocious that games rarely get beyond the opening scenes 
 where players run onto the field. This is a problem both with dial-up and high-speed connections. 
 Though you can still try to guide the Chicago Cubs to their first season of glory since 1908, you 
 can't do it at legendary Wrigley Field because a pop-up bug frequently causes hard system lockups. 
 Once that pop fly goes up, it stays up, forcing you to quit out of the program, terminating the 
 game in progress. And so on, and so on.   

  Needless to say, this is extremely disappointing. Yet at the same time, all of these flaws somehow 
 can't diminish the stark fact that the designers of High Heat 2002 know baseball better than anyone 
 this side of Cooperstown. Gameplay remains captivating despite the bugs. Nothing gets in the way 
 of enjoying the series' trademark: an uncannily realistic re-creation of the pitcher-batter confrontation 
 that is at the heart of the national pastime. At-bats in High Heat 2002 play out exactly as they 
 do in the real Major Leagues. When on the mound, you need to mix up your pitch selection, speed, 
 and location. Fall into a predictable pattern and even the likes of Rey Ordonez will eat you for 
 breakfast. Patience is required in the batter's box. Computer hurlers will mix up their pitches 
 and keep you guessing. Swing at a lot of balls and you'll inflate some lucky pitcher's strike-out 
 stats, not to mention lose a lot of ballgames. When combined, these two basic elements create a 
 total experience that's as engaging as any sports game ever released to date, for any platform. 
           Defensive substitutions in blowouts are a nice touch    

 Other components of the game are similarly authentic. Computer managers manipulate their rosters 
 with real acumen, pulling pitchers who aren't getting the job done, intentionally walking tough 
 batters in key situations, calling for double switches where appropriate, and even making a lot 
 of substitutions in the late innings of blowouts. They also play an aggressive brand of ball that 
 leads to a lot of freewheeling on the basepaths; let up for a moment and you'll have enemy runners 
 in scoring position. Mound visits and rain delays are new to the series this year. Sending your 
 manager out to the mound can be extremely useful when you want to delay the game and give a reliever 
 more time to warm up, while the pep talk can also energize a flagging pitcher. Rain adds atmosphere 
 and a tactical element to gameplay, as pitchers sent back to the mound after a lengthy delay are 
 more likely to hurt themselves. Injuries are actually a factor in all games that take place in 
 or around the wet stuff, as position players are more likely to come up lame after a play on the 
 slick field.   

  Stat generation in the game is also quite true to life, though there are some quirks in it. A simulation 
 of the 2001 season saw expected contenders like the Boston Red Sox, New York Mets, and Texas Rangers 
 make the playoffs, but also the emergence of expected also-rans. The Montreal Expos tied with the 
 Colorado Rockies for the best record in the NL, each at 95-67, while the Milwaukee Brewers somehow 
 won the NL Central with an abysmal 79-83 mark. The Red Sox went on to down the Rockies in the World 
 Series. The senior circuit was also the home of some surprises in the individual stat categories. 
 Jose Vidro won the batting crown with a .348 average, and Hideki Irabu sported an impressive 18-5 
 record that led the way for starting pitchers (though Randy Johnson stole the pitching award with 
 a mediocre 14-11) . Barry Bonds captured the home run crown with 51 dingers. Things were less dramatic 
 in the American League, where Pedro Martinez ran away with top pitcher honors thanks to his 22-6, 
 2.25 season, and his new teammate, Manny Ramirez, took home the MVP trophy thanks in part to his 
 league-leading .377 average.    

 Computer trading is marked by some extremely odd moves. Though most transactions are of the "Lance 
 Berkman for Matt Stairs" variety, there are a number that stand out. The computer seems particularly 
 prone to shipping out veterans for young unknowns with promise. For example, the Dodgers dumped 
 Kevin Brown in the midst of a good season for 25-year-old second baseman Andre Powers, Cincinnati 
 gave Pete Harnisch away for AA starter Don Rhodes, and Tampa Bay moved Fred McGriff for pitching 
 prospect Rich Carey. Financial considerations in the real world make the above deals stand out 
 perhaps more than they should, though it's hard to see Los Angeles getting rid of Brown for even 
 a dozen blue chippers, big contract or not.           Yet another glitch creates a quicksand mound 
 at Crosley Field    

 One of the biggest selling points of High Heat 2002 is a much-touted graphical overhaul. This long 
 overdue renovation provides an attractive sheen to the game as a whole, yet is still patchy. Player-specific 
 animations that depict the peculiar windups and batting stances of Kevin Brown and Tony Batista, 
 among others, are a great touch of realism, but for every player that received this extra attention, 
 dozens went untouched. Even some recognizable superstars were left alone. Larry Walker, for example, 
 doesn't hunker down into his trademark crouch at the plate. The same goes for facial features. 
 While some top ticket-sellers like Barry Bonds and Jeff Kent boast likenesses pretty close to what 
 we can see during the Saturday game of the week, many others have generic faces that are pretty 
 creepy when seen close up. The aforementioned Kevin Brown has been given a bizarre melted-looking 
 visage that will remind more than one Dodger fan of the climactic scene in Raiders of the Lost 
 Ark.   

  Batting animations remain a sore point. Although the player models are now much more detailed than 
 in previous installments (thanks to doubling the polygon count) , they continue to move in an awkward 
 fashion. A few more frames of animation would have worked out a lot of the kinks. Bigger, more 
 impressive stadiums convey the Big League atmosphere better than ever before, though even the new 
 scaling and vertex lighting can't cover up textures that appear to date back to 1995. Some stadiums 
 also display graphical glitches of one form or another. A wall in the Edison Field bullpen flashes 
 distractingly, and the mound at historic Crosley Field in Cincinnati allows pitchers to throw while 
 ankle-deep in dirt.   

  Audio improvements are afflicted with similar problems. Drowsy play-by-play man Ted Robinson has 
 been replaced by a more dynamic two-man booth comprising Dave O'Brien and Ray Fosse, but the uninspired 
 script remains nearly the same as in past years. While O'Brien may be more lively than his predecessor, 
 there isn't much that even he can do with repetitive duds like "And now the closer gets up in the 
 bullpen," and "New York... is up next." And even this part of the game isn't bug-free. Hecklers 
 in the stand will occasionally go into a loop, forcing you to listen to the same crank repeat lines 
 like "Looo-ser!" over and over again until the end of the game.           Carlos Delgado heads 
 for home    

 As outstanding as the core elements of High Heat Major League Baseball 2002 undoubtedly are, it's 
 hard to emerge from an extended session of gameplay without some serious misgivings. For every 
 dramatic at-bat that's so realistic you can almost smell the pine tar, there are a dozen disappointing 
 reminders that the game simply hasn't been completed. Buyers of the product in its current form 
 can't help but feel like unofficial, unpaid members of 3DO's quality assurance team.   

  But as offensive as that is -- particularly coming on the heels of two previous High Heat games that 
 also required significant patching -- it's impossible to be too hard on a game that captures baseball 
 so well. The designers understand the real sport's ebb and flow in a way that's never been equaled, 
 making the latest installment of the game a must-buy for baseball fans, bugs or not. So, while 
 they got enough right to overshadow the many bugs and make waiting for the inevitable patch not 
 quite so onerous, next year, the designers might want to spend a little more time in spring training 
 before starting the regular season.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  tommy talirico says that this game sucks so dont get it! He is the gangsterist midget in the solar 
 system! so i think its bad cause u=Malcolm jamal Warner yo!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  !
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Empathic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2003 4:51 pm PT
Review:  High Heat 2002 Baseball Game Simulation, is up to this point, the single best Baseball Sim, I have 
 ever seen. The Graphics are excellent for 2001, the Sound is Superb, to put it mildy. The Play 
 by play announcer, and the Color man, have just the right things to say for almost any situation, 
 the A. I. for the sound engine is incredible, the only limitation, it seems, being the amount of 
 lexicon for the A. I. sound engine to choose words and phrases with. I had to knock the graphics 
 down from a 10 to a 9, after seeing the latest High Heat Iteration. If I had given it a 10, I dont 
 know what I would give this years graphics!! (even better!) The only slight shortcoming, of this 
 Excellent Baseball Sim, is the gamePlay is a bit stilted. I don't blame HIgh Heat for this, I think 
 its more of a shortcoming of the Graphic Cards, and the speed Of the CPU's, available in early 
 spring 2001. This Baseball Sim is simply, to this reviewer, the best ever, up till 1991, my a wide 
 margin. I give it a 10, because its shortcomings do not seem to be a result of the Game itself, 
 rather than the
  available Hardware at the time of its release. Every year, High Heat By 3DO, 
  puts a more and 
 more impressive product "on to the field" . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
