-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: History Channel: Civil War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/historychannelcivilwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent amount of realistic-looking weapons.
 Running around with a sword can be entertaining.
 It's pretty short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No multiplayer.
 Takes forever to reload most weapons.
 Lousy artificial intelligence.
 Having to save every few feet because of a lack of checkpoints is tedious.
 No joystick support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.5, 6.4 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 121 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
History Channel: Civil War is good for a few mindless hours of shooting action, but not much else. 
 History buffs need not apply. 

  There's no question that World War II is the war of choice for developers looking to make a first-person 
 shooter based on real-life events. With no shortage of games based on the Second World War already 
 on the market, including its own Call of Duty series, Activision has gone even further into the 
 past -- all the way back to 1861 -- for inspiration. Despite a somewhat unique setting for a first-person 
 shooter, History Channel: Civil War is a run-of-the-mill affair that isn't likely to please Civil 
 War buffs or, for that matter, anyone else.  

          Time out! I need to reload! Okay, time in!     

  History Channel: Civil War follows 
 the events of the American Civil War that pitted the North against the South from 1861 to 1865. 
 There are 12 levels in all, and you'll play as a soldier for both the Union and the Confederacy. 
 You'll fight through five levels for the North and six for the South before fighting one last battle 
 for the Union side in Petersburg. However, you're not likely to care which side you fight for -- there's 
 very little story, and no matter what you do, the North wins and the South loses. A brief video 
 explains the events leading up to each scenario before each level, but other than conveying the 
 tremendous loss of life and showing a few interesting black-and-white photos, the videos are uninteresting 
 and consist of nothing more than dry narration about troop movements as you view colored blocks 
 moving around maps.  

  Outside of having some different weapons, History Channel: Civil War plays a lot like any other 
 first-person shooter based on a real war. Your soldier can carry a number of weapons such as muskets, 
 rifles, revolvers, a saber, and even a knife. You can also use hand grenades, but they cause such 
 small amounts of damage that they're completely worthless. You'll start off each level with an 
 objective, which is shown as a star on your radar. Radar? Yes, radar. You know, the radar that 
 was issued to each soldier in the Civil War. These tasks include planting explosives, smashing 
 a telegraph machine, stealing documents, or simply meeting up with a commanding officer. After 
 completing a task, you're given a few more things to do, and then the screen fades to black -- there's 
 rarely any sense of accomplishment after a level.  

  Not only are the objectives for each level not particularly interesting, the gameplay isn't very 
 exciting, either. You have some guys fighting alongside you, but they're worthless, so you'll mostly 
 be going at it alone. Enemy artificial intelligence is subpar. Soldiers stand around while you 
 shoot them, they're completely oblivious to a gun being pointed at their heads and rush you in 
 an effort to fight, and they almost never try to flank you. On the default setting the game starts 
 off quite easy and you can make it through the first five chapters by running-and-gunning through 
 the enemy. It's when you fight for the Confederacy that things begin to get difficult. This is 
 less due to the CPU employing any sort of advanced tactics and more a result of the game throwing 
 more enemies at you, which in turn makes it more difficult to ignore its numerous flaws.  

  By far the biggest issue is the weapons -- more specifically, how long it takes to reload the guns. 
 While it indeed took a very long time to reload these weapons, this instance of historical accuracy 
 hurts the gameplay. The reloading animations are detailed and seem to be accurate -- other than being 
 sped up (but still too slow) -- but that doesn't make them good. The first time you encounter other 
 soldiers also out of ammo and race them to see who's going to reload first, it's funny, but after 
 a few dozen such encounters it's much less amusing. Most of the weapons in the game hold only a 
 couple of bullets, so you'll have to reload much more frequently than you do in other first-person 
 shooters. Of course, if you do actually shoot someone, the game might not register the hit. If 
 your target is currently fighting another soldier it's not always possible to shoot them; if they 
 haven't been triggered into action, they might not get hit; and sometimes you can shoot them in 
 the face from three feet away and the game won't register a hit. The sloppy hit detection isn't 
 just limited to shooting, though. Eventually you'll probably get frustrated with your guns and 
 run around and melee-attack guys instead, but the hit detection for melee combat is so poor that 
 it's not a very effective option, either.  

  Unfortunately, the game is plenty vigilant when it comes to tracking how often your soldier gets 
 shot. The CPU has a nasty habit of shooting you through solid objects and dense cover. Enemy soldiers 
 can even shoot you before they appear onscreen, which results in many, many frustrating deaths. 
 These deaths are made all the more infuriating by the checkpoint system -- it doesn't exist. Rather 
 than just sprinkling a few checkpoints through the levels, you're forced to save the game. Because 
 you never know when you're going to get shot by an unseen foe, what ends up happening is that you'll 
 sometimes wind up saving the game literally after every soldier you kill. It's as easy as hitting 
 a button on the PC, but on the PS2 and Xbox 360 you must pause the game, select the save option, 
 pick a spot, and then save. If you forget to save, you're screwed and have to do the entire level 
 over again.  

  It takes around six hours to make it through the entire campaign, and while it can be mindless 
 fun the first time, there's very little reason to play the game again. There's a small amount of 
 replay value in the Xbox 360 version, which has achievements for beating levels, finding hidden 
 items, and shooting accurately. Since it's so difficult to actually hit a target, many of the accuracy 
 achievements are most easily earned by going back through the levels on the easy setting, shooting 
 your gun once, and then running through the rest of the level with your sword or knife. Being a 
 first-person shooter, Civil War might have had some sort of multiplayer component, but it doesn't 
 even have split-screen multiplayer, much less online play.  

  History Channel: Civil War isn't a bad-looking game, but its visuals aren't particularly noteworthy, 
 either. Soldiers don't look bad from a distance, but upon closer inspection they look rather silly, 
 and the over-the-top death animations belie the generally serious nature of the game. The battlefields 
 are filled with gunfire and explosions, which will destroy buildings and kick up huge plumes of 
 dirt and smoke. Most of the cooler instances of destruction are scripted, though, and the PS2 version 
 lacks many of them. This version also lacks the smaller touches, such as snow or cotton seeds wafting 
 about certain areas, and it's got an iffy frame rate to boot. The levels, while extremely linear, 
 give the illusion of being large and open to exploration due to the forests that surround them. 
 But the ol' invisible wall rears its head should you stray far from your predestined path. In fact, 
 quite a bit of your combat will take place in the forests, which would be fun if the CPU weren't 
 so adept at shooting you through the trees. The PC and Xbox 360 versions are comparable, but the 
 PC version looks better thanks to a solid frame rate.  

          You may have given your life for a lousy game, but you'll never be forgotten.     

 
  Civil War's audio is as uninteresting as the rest of the game. The voice acting is dull, hokey, 
 and irrelevant to the point that you'll probably want to skip ahead anytime there's a cutscene. 
 Guns and cannons sound fine, but there's not a great deal of difference between different gun types. 
 There's very little music in the game, though what is there sounds pretty good.  

  In the end, it's very difficult to recommend History Channel: Civil War to anyone. Civil War buffs 
 would probably enjoy watching a show about the war more than they would spending time playing this 
 game. The narration and cutscenes that take place before each level seem historically accurate, 
 but anyone with any interest in the Civil War would scoff at the History Channel lending its name 
 to a Civil War game that has you actually jump over explosive barrels that are being rolled down 
 a ramp a la Donkey Kong. Anyone else simply looking for a solid-first person shooter will likely 
 wind up disappointed by the derivative gameplay, lack of multiplayer options, and and the numerous 
 quirks and flaws found throughout the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AqUaBlaDe123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun but when they die they stand up and fall over also the game olny has like 
 13 missions so it would be better if there were more i kinda liked it. also there are bodies everywhere 
 draped over fences on carriges you name it it gives a real life feel to it. the melle is way to 
 easy you can own guys in one hit so its definitley not a 9 but and 8.5 will do. the best of the 
 levels will have to be hsiloh or the last level its kind of confusing playing 2 diffrent sides 
 though. also gettysburg is fun you get a sniper rifle and start picking guys off. at one part you 
 get in a chain gun and mow people down. so its an over all good game way too short i dont think 
 the 360 version is any better so i dont know if you would want that or not your choice. it also 
 takes up a bunch of space.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Nothing much needs to be said. This game is great! The weapons are absolutely great, and very accurate. 
 The reload times are realistic, I mean do you expect the musket to have a clip hm? I have done 
 the game over and over on Hard, and I love it! The campaign I say is not that long, but so what. 
 Call of Duty's ca, paign is pretty short too. Anyone who likes a good FPS should rent it maybe the 
 xbox360 or look for a demo. I guarantee youll like it! Just there is no Multiplay, which is kinda 
 bad, but hey they could get a patch or update! So just try it. I have never experienced any bugs, 
 but the AI can be a bit screwy at times. Now go drive to your local Blockbuster/Dillons/Kroger 
 or watevs and rent it! Or if you a a tru believer, buy it. It is great. how can i say that the 
 campaign is great anymore? well it is....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Civil war is an ok game, if you don't mind slow (but realistic) load times, a lack of original 
 plot, and terrible graphics. the combat is ok, and although the enemy AI isn't that great, it isn't 
 incredibly bad, either. the friendly AI, on the other hand, makes enemies you'd find on the origanal 
 playstation look smart. they stand in your way and refuse to move, charge straight at enemies that 
 are firing at them, and find various other ways to get themselves killed in the first ten seconds 
 of the game. The weapons (although not great) are the best part of the game. they are all affective, 
 realistic late 1800's weapons. your health system is the same thing that is in the medal of honor 
 games, allowing you to regeneraate your health to a certtain extent and then pick up health packs 
 to finish the job. all in all Civil War a bad shooter set during an interesting time period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mal1c1ousMike
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The History Channel- Civil War a Nation Divided to me is a great game. Graphics: great ,game play: 
 good, weapon reload times: Great!
  When i bought this game I thought it would be good and guess what i was right. Very accurate history 
 great weapons and for reload time... great. For everyone who think the reload time is too long... 
 what did u expect for the people to reload like we do now i mean come on its a history game.
  The AI can be weird at times but its still good. Guns are great but not really balance with power 
 some will kill with one shot some with two etc.
  But overall the game is great and i think u guys should go buy it don't worry about reload times. 
 Lets hope they get a patch out that adds multiplayer and a little better AI. So go out buy this 
 game give it a try trust me its worth the money.
  Civil war for me gets a 10. By Mike L. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olpfan
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Why is the game so bad, well first off its called History Channel: Civil War. Who wants to play 
 a ******* game called History Channel, when i went to school i remember history being boring, i 
 mean i dont get it.
  
  The gameplay is ok i guess i mean it has the basic aspects of typical war game and the feel of 
 one, one big probably is how stupid the people your fighting are, i mean you dont need cover at 
 all because they just stand there for hours not doing anything like there saying "hey shoot me" 
 I mean what wrong with them. Also theres no checkpoints so if you happen to get killed and you 
 didn't save your ****** you have to start all over from your last save. is that exciting to have 
 to save ever second? whatever. And another thing, i could take a **** faster then it takes to reload 
 your gun in this. I have no idea why this feature iss terrible i mean mabe they thought it would 
 be more realistic or something but i think it just sucks.
  
  Well if your the type of person who likes crappy games and acually made it through this entire 
 game then you wont be to suprised you'll actually be more disappointed and guilt stricken, like 
 you could've done so much more with your time and the game is pretty much garbage after that. ya 
 thats right theres no multiplayer. i mean why is it so difficult to make it online or something. 
 its garbage. Even a crappy game might last a little longer if theres an online feature. I just 
 dont understand this game. What were they thinking.
  
  Piece of ****
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I was in a frame of mind for a game that simulates the American Civil War and provides educational 
 value (what was I thinking?) . When I saw this FPS game History Channel: Civil War it was like all 
 my dreams come true. Well, like the length of the game, it fell short.
  
  The principle of this game shows brilliance. Considering now there are more World War II FPS than 
 grains of sand on the beach HC: Civil War presents the events of the American Civil War from 1861-1865.
 
  
  The game opening mission sequence presents the historical situation involved before launching you 
 into attack. It leaves that opening sequence like 'and so-and-so needs to defend the ranks...' 
 therefore the player flows right amidst into the war. On the flipside and considering there are 
 twelve different missions the history of the war does not flow very well as it's out of sequential 
 order. This may not seem to be a big deal for some, however considering the History Channel logo 
 is plastered all over the game and I trying to understand the events surrounding the great war 
 made me even more confused (FYI - I'm an Australian therefore my knowledge of the American Civil 
 War is probably like saying an American's knowledge about the Australian Federation and please 
 no debatable arguments about stereotypes - I'm just making a point) .
  
  The game is trying to be as historically accurate as possible in regards to the setting scenarios, 
 environments and the likes. It even goes as far as the guns themselves. So out goes that rambo-like 
 shooting and in comes slow reload times. I really like that effect as it makes you think twice 
 about pulling the trigger. The game also takes one step further as if you don't have time to reload 
 (as it can happen quite a lot) you still have that opportunity to go up-front and personal - another 
 words use that bayonet or swing that gun like you never swing before.
  
  The missions themselves present a very good mixture of all-out firing to stealth to placing explosions 
 to sabotage. Each mission has numerous check points which are governed by your 'radar' on the left. 
 That said, the HUD is probably one of the best I have ever seen. Very little clutter yet provides 
 all the information you need (i. e. ammo, radar and grenades) .
  
  Graphically the game looks nice. Not exactly cutting-edge technology however very pleasing for 
 the eyes. It looks like the developers have spent some effort in the placement of carts, houses, 
 fences, tents and whatever else. All placements do make sense and does not display some random 
 mess. Even the types and colours of foliage look very impressive. At times I replayed the missions 
 just to stare at the lovely trees and the rolling clouds!
  
  It's the age-old saying that most games either have poor or superior AI. This game has poor AI. 
 The enemies do take cover from time-to-time however they have a tendency to do the 'running-man' 
 at the worst possible time. For example: when they try to take cover behind a sandbar, they would 
 collide at the edge of the sandbar and do the running-man or at times the moonwalk. It's gets a 
 little worse. There are many-a-times that you will get shot when you are hiding behind carts, trees 
 and whatever else. Yes, the AIs have super aiming. Now what is good for the goose is good for the 
 gander. That said, if your targeting cursor circles red, that means you are on target for the kill, 
 regardless of the distance; and that includes firing through dense bush. Just pull the trigger 
 and hear the man die. What's more frustrating is that once he dies, the body merges in the ground 
 and their weapon will soon follow; so take real care of your ammo count.
  
  The battlefields looks vast as you can see for miles away however it's all an illusion. If you 
 stray off the 'path' you are treated with that invisible wall or quite simply a fence. Now the 
 catch is that the game has that 'secret explorative' score and tries to encourage you to 'explore' 
 the map thoroughly. At first I was extremely skeptical then I realise what 'explore' means. Go 
 behind a house and you have located a 'secret' section; climb underneath a tree and voila another 
 'explorative' point. You get the idea.
  
  The sounds in the game are quite good. The firing of cannons, reloading weapons, men shouting and 
 so forth is quite OK. The voice-acting are also quite reasonable but needs a little more work. 
 The musical scores on the other hand are very pleasant as I personally like the opening soundtrack.
 
  
  By this stage you are probably wondering why in the world I should play this game. Well, for some 
 strange reason I was addicted. Maybe because it's the only game I have seen that tries to replicate 
 the American Civil War as a FPS. Maybe it's the battlefield settings as they are extremely impressive 
 - no random crap. Maybe it's the realistic reloading effects. However dig a little deeper and sadly 
 enough it doesn't do justice. Only play it if you, like me, is desperate for a FPS without a World 
 War II setting otherwise stay way clear of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonJuanDH
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  I don&acute; t know why so many low grades for this one, is a highly playable game and historical 
 accurate. The text explaining the historical facts, could be more multimedia to be more interesting, 
 but everything else is a HL: S like FPS. I hope History Channel do more things like this, after 
 all, there are plenty of wars out there, like first WW, Corea, Vietnam, some older like the Napoleonic 
 wars, and maybe some of the ancient era.
  Pr&oacute; s: easily playable, simple missions, good graphics, historically accurate, good fps fun
 
  Cons: too short, could have some cinematics of the events, the squads could be more interactive, 
 no multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Civil War, the game, is, based on a pretty decent idea. It's based on the... civil war. Not world 
 war 2. Not world war 1. Not world war 3. But on civil war. Great idea. However, everything else 
 sucks. What exactly sucks?
  
  Well, the game is like you're walking in a corridor. Little fence blocks you from moving freely 
 on the battlefield, or at least, MOVING on the battlefield. Here's the deal: you grab a gun, go 
 forward, shoot the enemy and... that's it. You just go forward. You don't have to be tactical, 
 you don't have to be careful. Just run and gun.
  
  The fun thing is, enemy can attack you from anywhere (even outside the 'corridor') and they can 
 hit you from anywhere-err... with their bullets. The AI is so dumb, they're actually clever. They 
 can spot you from 200 miles, and yea... that's it. Sometimes they would run towards to you, and 
 when they finally reach you, they just turn around. Funny.
  
  Ah, the guns. Guns are fun. But. This is definitely an arcade shooter, meaning, it's not really 
 realistic. Sometimes even headshot isn't instant kill. But, the developers did make guns realistic: 
 reloading a gun (after every shot) is about 10seconds. That's a long time. You'll be spending more 
 time reloading than shooting. It's pretty fun, though. 'Cause your enemies will be reloading too. 
 Alot.
  
  The game is historyically accurate: however, if we take away the cutscenes, it's just another quake-styled-go-ahead-and-kill 
 game. With a more decent level design, with less mindless shooting, and more carefully calibrated 
 gun-system, this game could've been good. But this... well this... isn't good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrophio
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  i think alot of people are over analyzing this game and not giving it enough credit to be quite 
 frank. firstly, if what you are looking for is another Halo, then you have come to the wrong place. 
 remember folks, this is a CIVIL WAR game, not the next battlefield. admittedly, yes, the reload 
 times are a little less to be desired on the battlefield, but as stated earlier, this is a civil 
 war game, and unfortunately they haven't developed AK47's yet. the graphics aren't the prettiest 
 thing i've seen, but as far as the gameplay goes, i think it's pretty solid. the targeting engine 
 isn't always dead on, but then again, neither were musket balls in that time period, so i say it's 
 a fair trade. the music and sound effects are ok, nothing to write home about, but solid none the 
 less. the environment is very linear, which is dissappointing, i'm sure there were no invisible 
 walls in the battle of bull run, but as far as reaching mission objectives, it's rather easy, that 
 is, if you survive. on the whole i think that if what you are looking for is an accurate portrayal 
 of a civil war battle (as opposed to the endless slew of WWII games out there) then this title 
 is a solid game, although, it does have room for improvement. no multiplayer either splitscreen 
 or online im afraid will hinder it's marketability, and reduce the game's audience. replay value 
 is almost non-existent, as the north always wins. somehow i get the feeling this title was a bit 
 rushed, and not polished as well as it should be, but it is a solid title nevertheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4PH0M37
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy mindless clicking, no innovation, and have the attention span of a hyperactive child 
 on Ritalin. This is for you
  
  Pros: Authentic history backing, added experimental weaponry [that came out after the war. IE: 
 Gatling cannon] , You can take a high number of shots to your corpse
  
  Cons: cadavers disappear, Blocky game play, annoying voice acting, one shot two kills, pain in 
 the ass if you somehow manage to die
  
  Thoughts: This game would be fun if i had tactical nukes at my disposal!
  
  Conclusion: I wouldn't 
 advise paying money for this game, as much as i love Activision this is one of their lesser games. 
 However if you do have the time, and you happen to catch it in a bargain bin. Be ready for dissapointment 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don_sheru
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Activision came back with an another Saga of War! This time its not WWII! Its based on the history 
 of wars in 18's! Civil War: A nation Divided has good graphics that can compete with other War 
 games! The moving sky, the blurry effect etc reminds a bit of CoD2! But its not better that it! 
 Eventually, I don't like this Game! Although the graphics, Sounds, Al is good but the gameplay 
 much matters!
  
  The gameplay is good but whenever you reload a gun, it takes about 2 to 3 secs.... As per the game 
 is situated, that's right because the guns are older than WWII! But buying it is just waste of 
 Money! I suggest to all FPS fans to stick to some other game for a while and buy the upcoming game 
 of Brother In Arms series or MoA or CoD! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
