-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: History Channel Battle of Britain 1940
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/battleofbritain1940/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.0, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 28 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: iEntertainment
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Oct 16, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battle of Britain tries to ease players through the frustrating aspects of virtual flight so that 
 they can experience the rewards themselves. It's successful in most ways. 

  You wouldn't know it from contemporary game sales figures, but flight sims were once the most popular 
 genre in computer gaming. The flight sims that have tried to cater to casual game fans have generally 
 done so simply by removing all the "simulation" aspects from the game. Battle of Britain, a budget 
 title from Activision Value Publishing and iEntertainment Network, takes a refreshing approach 
 in that rather than taking out the challenge entirely, it tries to ease players through the frustrating 
 aspects of virtual flight so that they can experience the rewards themselves. It's successful in 
 most ways.  

          Battle of Britain is a surprisingly accessible combat flight sim that's recommendable to 
 beginner players.     

  Battle of Britain bears the History Channel license, but it's actually the venerable Warbirds III 
 engine with a number of features tailored to beginning pilots. Even though the game is entitled 
 "Battle of Britain," you'll perform your training missions in a P-38 Lightning. That shouldn't 
 be a problem for anyone but the most hardcore of pilots. What's more notable is that, in addition 
 to the tutorials, there are some demonstrations of common maneuvers like the Immelman, yo-yo, and 
 barrel roll, which show players what is involved and explain their tactical significance. It's 
 useful, and fleshing these out into a full-fledged combat flight school would probably have been 
 even more helpful. As the game stands, novice pilots will get some benefit from the tutorials, 
 but they'll get even more from the autoflight feature, which is the game's most interesting aid. 

  At any time during the scripted campaign (or any of the other missions) , players have the option 
 of engaging the "fly me" toggle, which invokes the game's AI on behalf of the pilot. This assists 
 the player in several ways. First, pilots without the experience to advance the campaign can essentially 
 have the AI complete the game for them by simply hitting the panic button when they feel they are 
 at their wits' end. There's nothing quite as satisfying as having your Nazi tormentors dispatched 
 to the English Channel with the click of a button. This is much more instructive than simply being 
 able to skip missions, because players can watch the AI fly and observe its tactics. It's also 
 a nice safety net for those who might become frustrated at not being able to complete a campaign 
 because they get stuck somewhere. The "fly me" mechanic is another idea that should be fleshed 
 out to give new pilots more insight into why dogfight tactics develop the way they do. As the game 
 stands, it does a good job of explaining the basics to new players in a fairly challenging genre. 

  Since it's the Warbirds engine, the game is very stable in flight, and machines that meet the modest 
 system requirements should run the game smoothly. The graphics are decent, with nice aircraft models, 
 crisp 2D cockpits, and passable terrain. Once you're in flight, you have a choice of three flight 
 models, ranging from "arcade" to "full realism." Even the arcade model feels, at least, somewhat 
 realistic, and the concessions made to inexperienced pilots include being generally forgiving. 
 Energy management and realistic maneuvers still rule the skies in this game, and the flight models 
 feel, at least, somewhat comparable to similar aircraft in more hardcore simulations. It's a case 
 of "smoothing the edges" rather than turbocharging everything. Stalls are almost nonexistent, for 
 example. Blackouts and redouts are pretty abrupt, however. One consequence of gearing a game toward 
 novices is that the solo game enemy AI is rather weak. Experienced flight simmers will find it 
 a bit disappointing, but newcomers will probably have their hands full.  

  The game comes with a scripted campaign of 12 missions, which lead you through various historical 
 and fictional phases of the Battle of Britain. In addition, there are also the usual "instant action" 
 missions, in which you can fly as a bomber gunner, and there's the familiar "free flight" mode 
 in which you can actually fly anything from a WWI Fokker triplane to an F-86 jet from Korea to 
 a Japanese Ki-43 over the Pacific. The main part of the game, of course, is the free access to 
 an online arena where players can fly selected aircraft over the English Channel, southern England, 
 and northern France. While it was somewhat sparsely populated during our time with the game, when 
 there were enough players to reach a critical mass, the dogfights were quite entertaining. Interestingly, 
 the player population was significantly more mature than some other massive multiplayer games. 
 The Warbirds III community has a reputation for being extremely helpful toward newbies, and with 
 the full realism settings on, experienced pilots should find the game challenging as well. It remains 
 to be seen how this mix shakes out, as inexperienced pilots are generally easy pickings for veterans. 
 Currently, the online arena has two sides with historical planesets, and the play is basically 
 free-for-all. iEntertainment Network is sponsoring regular "events" at peak times, and how this 
 game develops depends greatly on how many players the game attracts -- and how willing the developers 
 are to populate the world with AI aircraft when loads are low.  

  Even for a game aimed at drawing in casual flight sim fans who are interested in history, though, 
 Battle of Britain can sometimes be frustratingly opaque. The input mapping to set up your joystick 
 (the game "recommends" one, but it's essentially a requirement) is quite buggy. This leads to occasional 
 crashes and forces players to navigate through a series of drop-down menus to configure their buttons -- with 
 no clear way to see any kind of master list describing the current configuration. Instead, you 
 have to look up keys one at a time. Sometimes strange things happen as well, like when you try 
 to take off from some airfields that are "under fire" in the free flight mode (where there should 
 be no combat) . This fire, logically, produces instantaneous death in some cases. Newbie pilots 
 might find this bewildering.  

          Despite the game's shortcomings, Battle of Britain's extensive tutorials, online dogfighting, 
 and a budget price make it recommendable.     

  In the end, the game's low system requirements, extensive tutorials, automatic flight option, and 
 ability to let you sit in the gunner's seat of a bomber to pick off attacking aircraft, gives casual 
 players plenty to do. While the game can do little to help players get over propeller sims' biggest 
 hurdle -- that of situational awareness -- and it can't remedy the fact that all flight simmers go 
 through periods of inactivity, Battle of Britain is a good way for gamers who are interested in 
 air combat and/or this period of history to get their feet wet.  

  At its value pricing of $20, Battle of Britain is an attractive purchase for nonhardcore flight 
 sim fans who don't want to sink a ton of money into a simulation that will just end up frustrating 
 them. While Rowan's Battle of Britain remains the standard for hardcore flight sim enthusiasts 
 and those looking to experience true World War II flight simulation -- with all of its challenges 
 and frustrations -- The History Channel Battle of Britain has a better chance of expanding the genre's 
 appeal.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
