-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hitchcock: The Final Cut
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/hitchcockthefinalcut/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.0, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 32 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Arxel Tribe
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game bears no comparison to Hitchcock's world of paranoia, intrigue, and ugly deeds. 

 With the exception of some extraneous elements, Hitchcock: The Final Cut doesn't have much to 
 do with the master of suspense. It references his work, but it doesn't resemble it in tone or style. 
 Some of the visuals are inspired by scenes from his films, one of the characters is a Hitchcock 
 fan, and a few of the puzzles require a cursory knowledge of his more famous films -- but beyond 
 these superficial elements, the game bears no comparison to Hitchcock's world of paranoia, intrigue, 
 and ugly deeds.           There are references to Hitchcock in the visuals...    

 Joseph Shamsley is a private detective with psychic powers. According to the game's Web site, his 
 parents died on the day of Alfred Hitchcock's funeral. Shamsley has been hired to investigate a 
 series of disappearances on a movie set, a vanity project undertaken by an eccentric, wealthy Hitchcock 
 enthusiast named Robert Marvin-Jordan. Early on, it becomes clear that the disappearances are actually 
 murders and that there's something more complicated afoot than a film shoot.   

  So complicated, in fact, that it's nonsensical. Either The Final Cut features the most intricate 
 web of false leads ever devised or the game makes no sense. It's impossible to discuss the problems 
 of the story without spoiling some of it, although it's difficult to spoil something that's so 
 incoherent. There may or may not have been a real film shoot. Everyone involved is working under 
 an assumed identity, and none of them actually have any film skills. Is it an elaborate plot to 
 set up Shamsley? Or a series of unbelievable coincidences? You'll never know, even if you finish 
 the game. The Final Cut's plot has a few interesting threads, but none of it makes any sense when 
 taken as a whole. You have a mysterious, mute niece with a precocious Minah bird named Alfred. 
 You have a strange family with a dark past. You have a series of brutal murders that are all related 
 but may or may not have been committed by the same person. The game never answers any of the questions 
 it raises -- instead, it shirks responsibility at the last minute by throwing some truly ridiculous 
 curveballs your way.   

  It's disappointing, because the interesting elements of the story could have made for a decent 
 game had they been flushed out, instead of simply thrown in the mix with all the other confounding 
 stories. At the beginning, you start to connect the dots, and the plot seems to be heading in a 
 good direction. But more and more facts and twists get added, and the dots just form a messy blob. 
 The most interesting subplot bears more than a passing resemblance to  Vertigo . It involves a 
 dead woman who isn't dead and ends with a confrontation in a bell tower. The Final Cut is at its 
 best when the designers just rip plot elements straight from Hitchcock.           ... and in the 
 puzzles.    

 Other references to Hitchcock include the manor where the Marvin-Jordans live, which looks like 
 the Bates' house from the front, with a luxurious grand ballroom tacked onto the back. Having your 
 home modeled after the infamous  Psycho  house, down to the tattered wooden floors, is a reason 
 to question not just your sanity, but your taste as well. The other primary references to Hitchcock 
 involve Shamsley's psychic ability, which gives him "flashes" when examining certain objects or 
 places.   

  The psychic spells are all short clips from Hitchcock films, taken out of context and appropriated 
 here as supposed insights into the story. Shamsley will see an overturned glass, and a quick scene 
 will show a glass getting knocked over. He'll enter a bathroom, and you'll see a quick clip of 
 the famous  Psycho  shower scene. Strangely, there's no attempt at making the contents of the game 
 match the contents of the scene, so the bathroom in The Final Cut looks nothing like the bathroom 
 in  Psycho . Shamsley will examine a drinking glass, and the flash will show a coffee cup. It's 
 as if the scenes were tacked on at the last minute, a suspicion that's all but confirmed by the 
 fact that by the end of the game, the flashes have even less to do with the places or objects that 
 inspire them.    

 The puzzles also occasionally reference Hitchcock's work. One requires you to put pieces of paper 
 in order and complete film titles. Another requires you to position a compass. In case you can't 
 get that one, there's a copy of  North by Northwest  sitting next to the compass. The puzzles are 
 mostly easy, and even the easy ones are made easier. One puzzle requires you to put five colored 
 make-up containers in a certain order. Sitting near the puzzle is a label that reads "Gorby." As 
 if that weren't obvious enough, a colored dot appears under each letter.           The Final Cut 
 is good when it directly references Hitchcock's films.    

 Later in the game, you'll encounter a few Myst-like puzzles that seem completely out of place and 
 are much harder than the earlier puzzles. And you also have your typical, completely illogical 
 puzzles -- for instance, Shamsley having to dress up as a dead woman to get information. Sure, it's 
 a reference to  Psycho , but it's also dumb. This puzzle is made worse by the fact that to imitate 
 the woman's voice, Shamsley enlists the aid of the talking Minah bird. It may have just been easier 
 to use the recording of the woman's voice that was sitting near the dress. And there is reportedly 
 an action sequence in the game, though for some reason it ended automatically when we encountered 
 it.   

  The vanishing action sequence isn't the only bug in the game, and most aren't as pleasant as that 
 one. The game uses a sort of Alone in the Dark/Grim Fandango perspective, with you controlling 
 the character from third-person with the arrow keys. The Final Cut features all the camera problems 
 associated with that perspective and even adds a new one -- occasionally, the view won't switch at 
 all. You'll be looking at a skewed perspective of an office building, and Joe Shamsley will be 
 long gone, offscreen, running in who-knows-what direction. Puzzles and close-ups switch to a different 
 interface entirely, in which you use the mouse to interact. These views have bugs as well and occasionally 
 won't let you exit back to the regular view at all.   

  There's no reason for the two control schemes. Even the more action-oriented parts of the game 
 could have been easily accomplished with a standard mouse-driven interface, or the game could have 
 opted for a keyboard-only interface, like Grim Fandango's. Instead, you get a sort of worst-of-both-worlds 
 situation. Like other games that have used that visual style, The Final Cut uses 3D characters 
 on 2D backgrounds. The game generally looks good, especially the dark and moody backgrounds.   
          The settings are appropriately creepy.    

 Though the character voices are decent (despite the fact that the whiny, sarcastic voice of the 
 protagonist in the opening movie is clearly a different voice from that of the much more competent 
 voice actor heard throughout the rest of the game) , the dialogue is terrible. The opening movie 
 is so bad that it makes Max Payne look like  The Long Goodbye . "Our cars mated," says Shamsley, 
 describing a traffic accident. Other instances of terrible dialogue abound, and much of it seems 
 like a bad translation. "For once, the audience won't be the one to undergo lobotomy," Shamsley 
 wisecracks while examining the gory remains of a brained actor. He is insensitive, no doubt, and 
 he can barely speak English.   

  Many years ago, the now-defunct Inscape released The Dark Eye, a similar game based on the works 
 of Edgar Allan Poe. It didn't fare too well either, and it just goes to show that classic works 
 don't necessarily make great games. It is notoriously difficult to create suspense in an adventure 
 game. If you can't control the pacing, you get nothing but a bunch of illogical puzzles set to 
 creepy music and cloudy skies. Fans of Hitchcock's work might enjoy the game simply for its "spot 
 the reference" element, but the only suspense in The Final Cut is the fear that one of the numerous 
 bugs will make it impossible to continue through the game's easy puzzles and nonsensical story. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nadershah
Rating: 5
Date: May 11, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  not bad , man english nemidoonam , pas farsi minevisam . in bazi dar hadde motavaset bood , gahi 
 moammahaye sakht va gahi kheyli asoon dasht , dar kol hamoon ke goftam ne khoob va na bad . amma 
 agar bazie intori yani tooye in sabk gir biad bazam bazi mikonam , rasti ta yadam narafte begam 
 ke az lahaze harekat ham choon **** ba keyboard bood moshkel dasht . dar moghayese ba bazihaye 
 hamin sabki az lahaze demo ha ham kamo kasr dasht , vali jaman hamoon na khoob na bad behtarin 
 tosife in bazie . ba tashakkor , masih ( nader shah ) agar bazihaye moammaee ke behtar hastan ro 
 bekhayn bazi konin man post mortem ro pishnahad mikonam ya jack the ripper ya syberia yek va do 
 . rasti in editione farsish ham ke tooye irane va az avalin karhaye darinoos be hesab miad ham 
 badak nist be har hal tooye in baziha fahmidane matlab ham kheyli be pishrafte bazi komak mikone 
 , dige arzi nadaram khoshhal misham javabi age darin baraye man befrestin , iraniha manzoorame 
 . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
