-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hitman: Contracts
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hitman3contracts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.5, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,882 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Io Interactive
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Apr 20, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hitman: Contracts delivers some time-tested and sometimes highly entertaining stealth action, which 
 any fan of the genre might as well check out. 

  Everyone's favorite bald-headed assassin is back for his third outing in Hitman: Contracts, a game 
 that's especially recommendable to fans of 2002's Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, because the gameplay 
 and a lot of the visuals simply haven't changed in this latest installment. Danish developer Io 
 Interactive created a memorable character and some impressive technology with its original Hitman 
 game, but not till the sequel did the gameplay live up to the graphics. Given that Hitman 2 was 
 such a huge improvement on the original, it's inherently somewhat disappointing that the new Hitman: 
 Contracts is really just a rehash. It's more of the same, replete with everything that was good 
 and everything that wasn't so good about the 2002 game -- only it's now 2004, and some of the issues 
 that were more easily overlooked then tend to stick out this time around. Nevertheless, Hitman: 
 Contracts still features some tense and exciting stealth action gameplay, as well as a good sense 
 of style and some interesting, open-ended missions.  

          The genetically engineered assassin, known as 47, is back in his third game in Hitman: 
 Contracts. And it's a lot like the second game, for better or for worse.     

  Most of Contracts takes place as a series of flashbacks. It's not terribly clear at first, but 
 you soon gather that the assassin known only as 47 has sustained a grievous injury on one of his 
 assignments and now lies at death's door. What may be his final memories are only of his past jobs -- brutal, 
 high-risk assignments -- which, incidentally, are reminiscent of missions (in many cases) from the 
 first Hitman game. The original Hitman: Codename 47 was released on the PC back in 2000, and it 
 suffered from serious issues with the controls and overall design. So in a way, it's nice to get 
 to play some of these old missions as they probably should have been played the first time around. 
 On the other hand, those who've stuck with the Hitman series from the get-go might not entirely 
 appreciate the dj vu. Anyway, close to half of the missions in Contracts are completely 
 original, whereas many of the later missions are "remixes" of levels from the 2000 game, including 
 that game's early missions, which took place in Hong Kong. Additionally, there are later missions, 
 such as one in which 47 must eliminate two brothers who are up to no good at an international gathering 
 in a posh hotel, and another one in which he must disrupt a Russian arms deal that is going down 
 aboard a ship. To be fair, these refurbished missions don't seem any older than the new ones, and 
 they actually contain some new twists not found in their original incarnations.  

  The new missions are certainly diverse and are quite interesting, offering ample opportunity -- in 
 the classic tradition of the Hitman series -- for you to craftily make your way to your target to 
 take him out, undetected, via some elaborate scheme (which typically involves the use of lots of 
 disguises taken from killed or unconscious characters, as well as the use of poisons or poison 
 substitutes) . However, there are also ample opportunities to instinctively shoot anything that 
 moves, if the aforementioned strategy fails. The first mission in Hitman: Contracts takes place 
 in the asylum in which the genetically enhanced 47 was made, in the aftermath of 47's killing of 
 his maker at the conclusion of the first game. The building is surrounded by SWAT teams, and 47 
 must either try to face them all single-handedly or find some other means of escape. Subsequent 
 missions take place in locations like a fetish party, which is reminiscent of the blood rave from 
 the movie  Blade ; an impressive British manse, where aristocrats have gathered for a hunting party; 
 a cold Russian outpost, where a submarine lurks with deadly cargo in its belly; a gathering of 
 fascist bikers in Rotterdam; and more. The game's settings are all drenched in rain (or snow) and 
 are otherwise thick with film noir atmosphere that suitably fits the theme. The international locales 
 come across well, too. Characters all speak in their native languages, though 47 has apparently 
 been too busy murdering people to have picked up on any foreign languages over the years.  

          You'll get to visit a variety of exotic locations for your various assignments.     

 
  Depending on which of the three difficulty modes you select when you begin play, and depending 
 on whether or not you try to take a stealthy approach, you can either breeze through the linear 
 series of missions in less than 10 hours, or you can possibly spend twice as much time doing so 
 (or more) . So there's some replay value to be found here, but this is still a single-player game 
 that doesn't necessarily have much long-term appeal. The truth is that the default "normal" difficulty 
 mode is too easy. In it, 47 begins every mission with a silenced hardballer pistol, which can instantly 
 and quietly kill anyone. However, 47 doesn't even need to be discreet, because he can sustain lots 
 of damage and can easily slaughter dozens of enemies (and civilians) using the automatic weapons 
 he'll scavenge from his fallen foes. It's comparatively much harder, and much slower, to take the 
 stealthy route, so it's tempting to take the path of least resistance to just blast your way from 
 one finish line to the next till you've reached the end credits. Unlike in previous Hitman games, 
 very few missions in Hitman: Contracts outright require you to be stealthy. Your intended targets 
 typically won't flee the area, even if you've murdered all their henchmen, and in some cases, you 
 might end up killing them in a wild firefight without even realizing it.  

  On the other hand, the highest difficulty level in Hitman: Contracts is going to be too tough for 
 most players. It doesn't show you any detail on your tactical map, and it doesn't permit you to 
 save your progress in the middle of a mission. Furthermore, 47 can easily be killed by his enemies 
 due to their increased power and accuracy, so this mode is very unforgiving. Yet,  Goldilocks -style, 
 the "expert" difficulty mode is just right. You can't open fire as wantonly as in normal mode, 
 because your enemies have a pretty good chance of killing you. And you only get a couple of saves 
 per mission, so you'd best make them count. This setup naturally inclines you to take a stealthy 
 approach to, therefore, experience these elaborate missions for all they're worth. However, most 
 gamers will logically gravitate toward the normal setting first to stomp their ways through the 
 game, thus missing its finer points. Unfortunately, you cannot switch between difficulty settings 
 on a per-mission basis. If you want to play on expert mode, you have to start from the beginning. 
     

  As a shooter (both first-person and third-person perspectives are available) , Hitman: Contracts 
 can be satisfying. There's a huge variety of authentic weapons to be found and used, and killed 
 foes lie in vivid red pools of blood. But the action just isn't particularly good by today's standards, 
 because the enemy artificial intelligence is, frankly, terrible. Enemies will try to overpower 
 you through sheer numbers, but they won't easily succeed, at least on the normal difficulty setting. 
 You can position yourself at a choke point -- say, behind a door -- to just keep spraying automatic 
 fire in the general vicinity of your enemies' heads. A very forgiving auto-aim system will make 
 most of your shots hit home, from short- or long-range, and as a result, the bodies will quickly 
 pile high as more and more fools rush to their deaths until none are left. Then you're free to 
 casually complete your mission, unopposed.  

          The stealthy approach is more complex and rewarding, but blasting your way through the 
 missions tends to be a viable option too.     

  The game has some other noticeable issues, which have been inherited from Hitman 2. There are some 
 nice, scripted setups for you to take advantage of, such as when characters nonchalantly walk over 
 to the restroom so that you can strangle them, hide their bodies, and take their clothes for a 
 disguise. But the whole disguise thing still seems rather silly, even though it's one of the main 
 gameplay elements in the Hitman series. The tall and broad-shouldered 47 can wear most anyone's 
 clothes as though they were tailored for him, and the way his previous outfit magically appears 
 in a neatly folded pile may be a hard pill to swallow for those unfamiliar with the Hitman series. 
 The behavior of most characters just isn't very convincing. As you strut in your new threads, characters 
 will just kind of mill about while casting sideways glances at you as you approach them, and they 
 may even attack or panic if you get too close to them. Again, though, there's just no coordination 
 or reason in the characters' actions, so you'll notice in densely populated stages that panicking 
 civilians will just run around -- back and forth -- like chickens with their heads cut off. And you 
 already know how the gun-toting bad guys fare...  

  Like its predecessor, Hitman: Contracts provides you with a very helpful tactical map, which you 
 can access at the touch of a button at any time, though the action doesn't pause when you're on 
 the map screen. Apart from the map, though, the game doesn't give you very good feedback about 
 what's going on in your environment. You're supposedly trying to remain hidden and quiet as you 
 sneak around, but there are no real indications of whether or not you're in a character's line 
 of sight or within his or her earshot. There's an onscreen threat indicator, which turns red and 
 starts fluctuating if you've raised suspicion, but it isn't terribly useful except to warn you 
 that you're standing too close to somebody. Besides that, Hitman: Contracts still frequently displays 
 messages to you as though you're omniscient. Suddenly, you're informed that a dead guard's body 
 has been discovered or that guards are now looking for a suspicious man dressed as a chef, and 
 other things of this nature. Presumably, 47 is learning this through the Agency, his mysterious 
 employer who's able to contact him remotely, but these all-too-helpful messages still seem incongruous 
 with the gameplay. At any rate, it's things like these, as well as the artificial intelligence 
 issues, that ideally should have been tweaked in this new game.  

  As mentioned, Hitman: Contracts isn't much of an improvement from a graphical standpoint, either. 
 In fact, considering it uses the same technology featured in the original Hitman game, it's a miracle 
 it looks as impressive as it does. Many of the environments and ambient lighting effects are believable 
 and great-looking, though the environments aren't very interactive. The original Hitman was the 
 first action game to make ample use of "rag-doll physics," an effect that's recently become very 
 popular, since it presents relatively realistic death animations. As a result, killed characters 
 crumple to the ground in lifeless heaps. But the effect is still exactly the same as ever in Hitman: 
 Contracts and no longer looks as remarkable as it used to. There are a few new effects, such as 
 how gouts of blood spray into the air sometimes when bullets strike their victims. Also, when 47 
 runs out of health, the entire game temporarily goes into slow motion, while the color fades from 
 the screen as he makes his last stand. The effect is supposed to be dramatic, but, actually, it's 
 just confusing; you'll think you accidentally triggered some new special ability, but in fact, 
 all you did was get yourself killed.  

  One disappointing aspect of the presentation in Hitman: Contracts is that it's missing Hitman 2's 
 incredibly stylish surveillance videos of all the people you're going after. Here, all you get 
 are static photos and flat text-briefing screens with some voice-over. Also, it's worth noting 
 that the game has an obnoxious number of introductory splash screens -- some of which you can skip 
 and some of which you can't -- all of which prevent you from getting started (playing) as quickly 
 as you'd probably like.  

  The highlight of Hitman: Contracts' audio is a musical score by Jesper Kyd, the same composer who 
 delivered the memorable musical score to last year's Freedom Fighters, the last game from the developers 
 of Hitman. The music here is electronic, rife with synthesized bass and heavy percussion, and is 
 much closer to that of the original Hitman than the orchestral score found in Hitman 2. Fortunately, 
 it works extremely well with the game's gritty and stylish settings. It dynamically changes to 
 fit the action and generally adds a layer of suspense and tension to the proceedings that works 
 better than any other element in the game. The rest of the audio is good, and the multilingual 
 voice acting, as mentioned, is a nice touch. Unfortunately, you'll hear some panicking characters 
 repeating their lines way too often, which takes away from the realism. 47's calm voice, meanwhile, 
 fits the character very well.  

          Hitman: Contracts is most easily recommended to fans of the series, though fans will wish 
 that the game did more to improve on its predecessor.     

  Hitman: Contracts is available for the PC, Xbox, and PlayStation 2, and each version of the game 
 features the same content and plays to the relative strengths of each respective platform. The 
 PC version is the best overall and offers the richest graphical quality (provided your system meets 
 the relatively modest recommended system requirements) as well as the best controls, thanks to 
 a standard first-person-shooter-style mouse-and-keyboard setup. Loading times are also fastest 
 on the PC, though they're reasonably short on the Xbox and PS2 as well. The ability to save anywhere 
 is present in all three versions of the game, though on the PS2, each save file takes up 500KB 
 on your memory card, which is a pretty big chunk. The console versions of the game control well 
 using a dual-analog setup, but you'd already know that if you played Hitman 2.  

  The third game in the Hitman series can be thought of as an expansion pack -- or a supplement -- to 
 the previous game. There isn't much resolution at the end of Hitman: Contracts, so it seems safe 
 to assume that the series is going to continue. Hopefully, then, for his next assignment, 47 will 
 pack a few more tricks up his sleeve. For the time being, though, Hitman: Contracts delivers some 
 time-tested and sometimes highly entertaining stealth action, which any fan of the genre might 
 as well check out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (87 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CHAZMISTAR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  So, you may have read my ground-breakingly earthshatteringly RUBBISH review of Hitman: Blood Money. 
 But now, I've got to say I've found a better game. In fact, this surpassed better at the 8.0 mark. 
 What this actually is, is he best game in the world. Yes, I do overuse that phrase [ (c) Jeremy 
 Clarkson ]
  
  Anyways, here is my review of Hitman: Contracts!
  
  As with any proper review, this will be split into the following sections:
  Gameplay, Graphics, 
 Controls, Funosity and Verdict.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  If you've played Splinter Cell, Metal Gear Solid or a game from the Thief series, you'll have pretty 
 much grasped the concept of stealth-action. However, the Hitman series incorporates a whole new 
 idea, which is hiding in plain sight. Now, Solid Snake or Sam Fisher would scoff at that idea, 
 but it's basically rather simple. If, for example, you find a restricted area, it's doubtful that 
 a suspicious gun-wielding bald guy in a suit would be permitted entrance. However, a guard would. 
 So if aforementioned suspicious gun-wielding bald guy were to hide his guns in a bush and take 
 the outfit of a guard, he would therefore be allowed to enter. So, that is the idea of Hitman. 
 And it works rather well.
  Gameplay score: 9/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  Hitman: Contracts was made in 2004. In comparison to many games after it's time, it's graphics 
 are to other games as Zeus is to Charlie Chaplin. If you don't catch my drift, I'll make it simple. 
 Graphics good. Peace out.
  Graphics score: 10/10
  
  CONTROLS
  Hitman: Contracts' control system is really rather sound. There isn't an awful lot I can say with 
 regards to the controls, but they are more or less pretty good.
  Controls score: 8/10
  
  FUNOSITY
  Now, where should I start with Funosity. It is a word which is made up. Imaginary, 
 fictional, false. This time, Google shall not prevail (bwa-ha-ha!) . Anyway, Funosity is a measure 
 of the level of fun and excitement you experience while immersing yourself in a fine game such 
 as this. There isn't much more to say but this:
  Funosity score: 11/10
  No, that is NOT a typo.
  
  VERDICT
  My verdict goes thus: Hitman: Contracts is possibly a 
 video-gaming milestone in the stealth-action industry, and should be treated as a golden God. You 
 must wash and clean it every day, then suck it's toes clean. But not really. Basically, go to your 
 nearest video game shop, buy Hitman: Contracts, and you will experience this amazing experience 
 (Yes, I used experience twice!) first-hand.
  Verdict: 12/10
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  That was a typo.
  
  Cheers!
  Cebe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xand3rro
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:26 am PT
Review:  This is Hitman: Contracts. You're given the chance to live again the most important moments from 
 an assassin's life. During the 12 missions you will recognize a few locations but this time the 
 number of possibilities is greater. There is always, of course, the way of gathering your weapons 
 and execute everything that moves. The other extreme offers you the chance of going unnoticed and 
 fulfill the mission using one bullet at most. As I prefer the middle way, I'd rather reach a location 
 where I feel safe and then kill everybody around me with the most silenced actions possible. The 
 approach of a mission is based on a few factors. The first things you have to study carefully are 
 your objectives and the map. You have to know exactly who your target is and where he can be found 
 (there's no she target in the game) . You must choose the appropriate route based on this bunch 
 of information and also on the tips the game is giving you (like the target is prepared to order 
 whisky) .
  Each action has its advantages and disadvantages. You realize that becoming a killing spree will 
 alert the nearby guards and this because of the sounds produced by the weapons. Fortunately, there 
 are levels with lots of loud music so you can freely adopt such agressive behaviors. The catch, 
 as there is always one, is that no one must stay alive. Otherwise, they'll run and announce the 
 others there's an intruder around. Still, given the type of weapons you have, such bad luck may 
 turn into your single chance to clean the level. Just imagine how many men can enter a room at 
 one given moment. In case you have a decent weapon to handle such situations (I prefer the AK74 
 or the MP9) you can shoot them in the head as they enter the room. The only intelligent teams are 
 the SWAT ones whose members spread around to avoid being massacred this way. The other extreme 
 is represented by the guards of the hotel in Budapest who like being butchered without complaining.
 
  Concerning the possibilities of disguise I have to express a few details. If you kill a patrolling 
 guard for example and take his clothes, just be careful and take his weapon also. A guard with 
 a different weapon or no weapon may become suspicious for the ones around. There are other methods, 
 of course. You can impersonate a cook, a butler, a waiter, a biker, a butcher, a policeman, a member 
 of a SWAT team (and in this case the uniform acts as armor) and the list can go on. To insure your 
 success you must look identical with the one whose identity you've stolen and the most important 
 thing is that you cannot be found in areas where you shouldn't be, given of course your new identity. 
 In case you become suspicious or your cover is blown you can either run to hide or you can change 
 clothes again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrWallaceGreen
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  The game begins with that 47 has killed his "father-daddy-dude", as he calls him (well, not really) , 
 he now has to escape this big clone factory filled with swats. This was my first hitman game, so 
 I had no idea that it was the aftermath of Codename 47 ending. 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The story is very weird, its just a bunch of flashbacks of 47's old jobs.
  I mean the only cutscene that has anything important to do with the story is the one before the 
 last mission, where hitman has to get away from paris or something to get health care.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The mood of the missions is different but the problem is that a lot of the mission-settings are 
 boring. There are like 3 or 4 China-missions and they are all from the first gamel and the problem 
 is that only one of them has a really fun map. Almost all of the missions are in dark rainy nigts, 
 wich is the 
  mood-maker of the game, yes. They are also very grim and dark, some are actually quite disturbing 
 and what makes it even more disturbing is killing people really cold-blooded.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The soundtrack in this game is unique and different from the other games soundtracks, the soundtrack 
 in contracts is more of a techno style of music.
  It usually fits the mood and sometimes it kinda depressed me.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The gameplay is fun and the controls work fine, even tho theyre a little stiff, but one of the 
 problems is that if you dont have any ammo or weapons and you blow your cover, theres no hand to 
 hand moves. You gotta get behind then to press a needle into them or fiberwire them and that is 
 not possible when theyre trying to kill you, so all you can do is run away = stupid.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  OVERALL:
  
  
  + Graphics are good
  + Soundtrack
  + The mood at times
  
  - The mood at other times
  - Story
  - Controls can be bad at times 
  
  
  If you wanna 
 check out A hitman game, I'd suggest blood money but you might wanna play this one too later on 
 
  
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodo97
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Fabian Fuchs, of the international terrorist family, has been sent by his brothers to purchase 
 a dirty bomb from weapons dealer Commander Sergei Bjarkhov.
  
  Assassinate both men and destroy their bomb production capabilities.
  
  The deal is going down 
 at a reconditioned submarine supply depot on the Kamchatka Peninsula. We can smuggle you in on 
 the same cargo plane that's bringing Fuchs and his men to make the buy.
  
  You'll have to get out of their the same way. We've got a mole on the base, an ex-KGB operative 
 working as a chef. Choename Yurishka. He can fill you in on some of the particulars.
  
  We don't know what the Fuchs brothers want with a dirty bomb-just make sure they don't get it.
 
  
  
  
  
  Game is good and it has good graphic. Too bad that is not existing multiplayer for this game.
 
  
  Graphic: 10
  
  Sound: 9.5
  
  This gane has got alot of options and I love that, I wish that is existing the weapon minigun but 
 it's not. Anyway the game is for 9.0 beucse I can't run very fast you can run but that running is 
 slow. And when your health is low your screen is becoming slow and you can't somewhere hide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Contracts is unlike any of the other Hitman games in quite a few ways; some bad, some good. 
 The game starts off after a hit and Agent 47 is wounded. As he staggers to his apartment (or flat, 
 whatever you want to call it) , he is quickly losing his consciousness. From here, the game throws 
 you backwards in time to the very end of Hitman: Codename 47 (the first game in the series) . The 
 entire game is just a series of flashbacks leading up to what you saw of 47 in the beginning of 
 the game, some of these flashbacks are actually missions from the first game with a completely 
 new look and new paths to take. Contracts has much a darker theme to it than any of the other Hitman 
 games. Everything down to the music and animations are much more sinister and, in some cases, downright 
 creepy.
  
  The new gameplay features in Hitman: Contracts seem to even out between the good and the bad, meaning 
 that the gameplay by itself is really not all that much better than it was before, but since it 
 was spectacular before, it's not a bad thing. Agent 47 moves much faster than he did in Hitman 
 2, so moving around when crouched is no longer like trying to push a freight train up a hill. There 
 are also new ways to sedate guards and eliminate your targets. The anesthetic from Hitman 2, which 
 seemed to knock out guards for about ten seconds or so, has been replaced with a needle filled 
 with a strong sedative which knocks out your enemies for several minutes. Along with the sedative 
 needle, there is also a poison needle which kills your enemies quickly and silently. The changes 
 in AI had both good and bad effects; since the guards are now more forgiving, it's just a little 
 too easy now. It doesn't take all that much effort to get the Silent Assassin rating on any of 
 the missions if you know what you're doing.
  
  The graphics in Hitman: Contracts weren't a huge upgrade from Hitman 2, the changes in graphics 
 were so small that someone could easily confuse Hitman 2 with Hitman: Contracts. The only changes 
 that I could really notice were the addition of very basic bloom effects and the models were a 
 little sharper than they were before. Although the graphical updates did enhance the game's dark 
 theme, they were not anything to get excited over. At best, they were satisfactory.
  
  The best thing about Hitman: Contracts is the story. As I said in the overview, all of the missions 
 are flashbacks, some of which are from Hitman: Codename 47. Most of the hardcore Hitman lovers 
 did not like this, but there are a few reasons why I liked it. For one thing, most of my favorite 
 missions were in the first game, and having the ability to do them again with new moves and a few 
 changes in the levels' layouts, it made for great fun. The main reason that this was done was because 
 not a whole lot of people ever played Hitman: Codename 47 and started with Hitman 2, so this game 
 kind of cleared up everything for them without making them go backwards in the series. I'm trailing 
 off topic, but basically this game's purpose is to serve as a connecting link between all of the 
 games, including the fourth one (if you pay close attention to both of them there are some connecting 
 links) . The only flaw in the story that I could find is that a few missions, although they were 
 fun, didn't seem to serve much of a purpose but to take up time.
  
  There isn't much to say about the sound in Hitman: Contracts except that it is perfect. Everything 
 is clear, the music is great, and the speech is all understandable, at least the english speech 
 is. The voice acting has once again gotten better; Agent 47 no longer sounds like a depressed librarian 
 and the enemies no longer sound like mad cows. The music in Contracts is definitely the best of 
 the series. Jesper Kyd has once again blown my mind with a great score for this game. The gun sounds 
 are solid and loud, making it easy to distinguish who is shooting at you and what they are shooting. 
 There isn't much else to say except the everything sounds great and there is nothing to complain 
 about.
  
  Every mission in Hitman: Contracts has multiple ways to pull off a Silent Assassin rating, giving 
 this game tons of replay value. I bought it back when it came out in April of 2004 and I still 
 play it to this day. The only problem I can see coming up with the whole thing is that once you 
 get Silent Assassin on all or most of the missions, there is no real incentive to go back and play 
 them again unless you're like me and erase your save games for that exact reason.
  
  In the end, Hitman: Contracts is not the best of the series, and it isn't the greatest game of 
 all time, but it is a fun game that's easy to come back to and play for hours. I wouldn't recommend 
 it to younger gamers, but I would recommend it to you guys who enjoy stealth games. If you haven't 
 played this yet, it's definitely something to add to your shopping list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Agent 47's career in games did what many others did the opposite: it improved with its age. The 
 first Hitman was a fair game, with bad controls and annoyingly frustrating gameplay. Hitman 2, 
 released sometime after the first one, fixed a whole bunch of problems and brought new elements 
 to the table, making it a great game for any system.
  
  Now, sometime later, the bald assassin is back. After saving Vittorio and leaving Italy for good 
 at the end of the last game, 47 is playing hits for hire. As he gets injured in a mission and collapses 
 in his hideout, he begins to dream (or dread) about his past assignments, some of them rehashes 
 and different perspectives of some of the missions from the first game. This makes for a very interesting 
 experience, since the game now has the improvements and seeing them in familiar environments that 
 made you annoyed at the first game. Scenarios like Kowloon and the insane asylum from Hitman are 
 some of the levels you'll be revisiting, with different objectives and situations. For instance, 
 in the asylum, you'll need to escape the place after the onslaught you had at Hitman's last level.
 
  
  The game looks somewhat better than the previous game. Now 47 looks more human and a little older, 
 and he has more personality. The rag-doll effect is back and is as evil as ever. The game is scored 
 once again by Jasper Kidd, so expect to be amazed by some tracks played in the background.
  
  Control-wise, veterans of the previous game will need a while to get used to some of the changes, 
 such as the run toggle that is now on all of the time and the fact that you'll need to hold the 
 button to walk. Other than those, it's the same.
  
  As far as weapons go, this game has it all, from conventional rifles to inventive weapons from 
 crazed minds, like scalpels, axes and even pillows, for silent kills. The difficulty of the game 
 is what makes it so fun. You'll be rewarded for playing it silent and you will be very satisfied 
 to finish this with only the hit kills to account for. This game makes you want to continue playing 
 after you finished it. I can't say it's the best in the series, since the second game improved 
 the series so much and this one plays it safe with the formula...
  
  Let Blood Money come ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantomi_08
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Ez a jatek nekem egy kicsit csalodast okozott, mert szinte nem talatak ki bele semmi ujat, azt 
 hiszem hogy az utolso palya volt csak uj, a tobbi palyat a Hitman - Codename 47-bol ujitottak fel. 
 A missziok is ugyanazok voltak tobb vagy kevesebb valtoztatassal. A fegyver valasztas menupontot 
 is szerintem elegge elrontottak, a terkepet nem is kritizalom, az az egyetlen dolog ami a Hitman 
 - Contracts-ban tettszett. Azert a grafikat se hagyjuk, ezen meg eleg sokat javitottak. Neheznek 
 nem volt olyan nehez, mivel a Hitman - Codename 47-bol ismetlodtek a palyak es mar szinte tudtam 
 fejbol a lepeseket. Nekem nagyon rovidnek tunt a jatek, nem tudom ti hogy vagytok vele. Ha ki akartok 
 egy kicsit kapcsolodni es szorakozni ezt a jatekot ajanlom, de ha megvan a Hitman - Silen Assasin 
 jatek, akkor inkabb azt a jatekot jatszatok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, it kind of boring shootin through it. But when I looked at Youtube vids 
 on Hitman Contract for walkthroughs. It looked pretty awesome on how these people were good at the 
 game. Plus the greatest video game music ever made. The locations are very fun to look at .There 
 are more creative ways to kill your targets like drowning, suffocating with a pillow, drink poisoning, and 
 many more. Usually Hitman 3 is a remake of Hitman Codename 47 (2000) . Hitman 2's (Silent Assassin) 
 was a very ambitous ,flawless, Buggy, game (Codename 47) . But Columbia been kicked out of Hitman 3. Heh, no 
 wonder Hitman's first sequel has been banned from the Hitman Trilogy. Well I hope you enjoyed the 
 review on Hitman Contracts. See ya later guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bourkey207
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  This is the first time i have played the Hitman Series. I love this game, i'm now addicted to the 
 series and i'm glad i am. This game has great gameplay and a nice storyline. The sound is remarkable 
 with the voice acting and the civilians using there native language. The music is also good as 
 well. You can also pick up a great range of weapons. Plus if you finish the game you can just play 
 on a higher difficulty or better your rating. All i can say is thank you Eidos for getting me addicted 
 to Hitman and making a great series just like Lara Croft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heyasquirrel
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Fresh on the heels of Hitman: Silent Assassin, widely regarded as late as 2007 as the best in the 
 entire series, Hitman: Contracts brings what is arguably the most hormonal entry in the entire 
 series. Some love it, some hate. Truth be told, there's a lot about this game to love, but unfortunately, 
 moreso than its predecessor and successor, there's a good deal to hate.
  
  Gameplay
  
  47's back, and truth be told, sneaking around has never been this fun. The threat meter tucked 
 into the corner of the screen, which represents how much 47's cover is/will be blown, is back, 
 and no doubt even the most dedicated fans of Silent Assassin will be watching it with a wary eye. 
 That's because in 2004, Silent Assassin's threat meter put Mexican jumping beans to shame. The 
 same basic HUD is here, but it doesn't hop up and down quite as much as a kangaroo, giving a better 
 impression of just how much danger you're in.
  
  47 handles nicely - it would be unfair to compare his movement to Blood Money, but needless to 
 say there's still a marginal ice rink effect. Try holding forward, and tap your run button: it 
 gets even worse. This, however, is purely aesthetic, and with a somewhat rigid over-the-back camera, 
 you can always see what 47 sees, and direct him where you want to go.
  
  This game feels like a neither-here-nor-there sequel, so its single distinguishing factor from 
 Silent Assassin is the levels. About half are recreations from the original Hitman, and although 
 I have never played it, the response to this rebirth seemed generally negative. I, however, enjoyed 
 these levels for what they were. The original levels hold their own; one such level, Beldingford 
 Manor, which pits 47 against the classic scenario of infiltrating a stuffy mansion replete with 
 hedge mazes and secret passageways, is among my favorite in the series, and has the depth to stand 
 up the complexity of Blood Money's best. Another, Traditions of the Trade, is aptly named. Sneaking 
 into a hotel, which is thrilling if only for the neutrality of the territory, is the single best 
 experience the game has to offer; although again, I've heard that those who played the original 
 Codename 47 didn't take to this level the way I did.
  
  Unfortunately, I only found about half the levels to be worth more than one or two replays. The 
 final mission is exciting the first time through, but in an age of Hollywood and plot twists, it 
 is decidedly anticlimactic. Another, involving a biker gang in Rotterdam, is a boring throwaway 
 that would have probably served better as a tutorial level. If anything, this game has less of 
 a proper tutorial than Silent Assassin. The hideout this time around is not a nondescript basement, 
 nor a shack in the middle of nowhere, but rather a large, steel building that exists more as a 
 limbo than any place that would exist on our planet. 47 can test his skills against imaginary S. W. A. T. 
 forces, but the tutorial room is unorganized, and its simplistic instructions give no feeling for 
 how to approach the actual game. You're better off just getting your feet wet with the first true 
 assignment.
  
  The series has a penchant toward sneaking around and moving about undetected, but this game features 
 a surprisingly large arsenal for when tip-toeing just isn't enough. In fact, I found there to be 
 so many pistols, SMGs and rifles that I was very overwhelmed. It was with initial shock but long-term 
 relief that this number was significantly cut down for Blood Money.
  
  The save system hasn't been refined, and I'm surprised I haven't seen this mentioned in any reviews 
 I've read. Oh, I have no problem with the limited saves; it heightens the tension, no doubt. But 
 the lack of any player profile means I have to manually keep track of which mid-mission save contains 
 the profile I'm working with. My workaround was to go into the game folder on my hard drive, and 
 have different save folders for different difficulties. It was a bit of extra management that went 
 a long way toward keeping my head on straight when loading a game.
  
  Graphics
  
  Atmosphere plays a large part in this game. Most entries into the globetrotting, James Bond style 
 of games distinguish their locations by tinting the desert brown, Las Vegas grey, China a soft 
 red, etc. Not so with Contracts. A heavy sense of cloud and desaturation pervades the entire game. 
 As the story of Contracts revolves around 47 dying and remembering past hits, in each memory it 
 is either raining or snowing. The game as a whole feels very different than its predecessor, much 
 less about grandeur. The darker tone serves the game neither better nor worse, but it is a large 
 part of the personality of the game, and it sets it apart from the rest of the series.
  
  Technically, this game ran fine on a laptop from 2001 with a terrible graphics card, so if you've 
 got anything close to recent, expect results. I was pleasantly surprised how even on my relatively 
 antique system, the draw distance was impressive, as were the lighting effects and the detail on 
 the weapons. Character models are often repetative, but detailed enough that the eye candy overshadows 
 the redundancy.
  
  Sound
  
  A very hit-or-miss category for myself. The music is spectacular; much more electronic than any 
 other Hitman, which again, is neither better nor worse than the other games. It serves its purpose 
 here and helps establish the dark tone. Put simply, Jespyr Kyd did it again. The guns all sound 
 like they should, and voice acting and NPC chatter is great.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Like I said, it's the most hormonal game in the series. You'll play it, and you'll swing either 
 one way or the other. Its plot is the least gripping, and in a game hailed before its release as 
 a second chance for Silent Assassin, its myriad flaws are harder to overlook. However, the high 
 standard that ships with the Hitman name is evident, and if you're any bit a fan of the genre, 
 don't be surprised to find yourself glued to the screen for hours on end. For all my negative points, 
 this was my gateway into the Hitman series, and even with its refined sequel on my hard drive, 
 there's enough here to warrant a trip back in time every once and a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fateproducer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  That's the first part of Hitman series I've played. This game really brings back my memories. I 
 enjoy playing this Hitman because of its unique and complicated story line (when you have to work 
 out the truth, because the director makes you on purpose to think up your own events and their 
 connections) . The story line seems to be very tangled but as some say Hitman: Contacts is a remake 
 of Hitman: Codename 47 so not everyone's got capability to know what it's all about. However, as 
 for me I claim that it's not a remake... they just freshen up those ideas that could not be solely 
 used than. And frankly speaking there are completely separated missions not connected in any ways 
 with Hitman: Codename 47. This game is surely magnificent. It's like to make yourself a new ID 
 card and be somebody else for couple hours during playing the game. Highly contagious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadim_261992
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of a Hitman fan so I'll make this quick.
  
  If you're a fan of stealth games and/or Hitman games then it's a great game.
  I've played all 
 the Hitmans and this one is too easy and more of the same.
  There are a few graphical glitches such as a line on Agent 47's back which can get really annoying.
 
  The sound is great, the way your victim makes the choking sounds when u sneak up behind him and 
 choke him to death and all the weapons sound terrific. I would recommend the buyers to get the 
 PC version since it looks a lot sharper and you will get a better frame rate if you have a decent 
 PC. Also the graphical glitches won't be present on the PC version.
  All in all, fans of the Hitman series will love this game
  
  Vadim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Contracts is a remake of Hitman Codename 47. I bought the Hitman Trilogy for $30. Hitman 
 2 was neat traveling the world. Contracts didn't have as much mission variety. Yes it's fun to 
 kill all the people in the mission, and stuff but Hitman Contracts wasn't that good of a game.
 
  
  It keeps all the same elements of the series and does a better job with the alarm meter than Hitman 
 2. Contracts doesn't have as much innovation as the other 3 did. Well Contracts is fun to play 
 the first time, but to me I don't have much intrest to play it again. Has the least value of all 
 of the Hitman games.
  
  The graphics aren't much better than Hitman 2. The effect of people rolling over when severly wounded 
 is a good feature and has some realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psic0delica
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  It is one of the best games of his type. And it's best than the previous, such as the history in 
 the game of the character, Don't brings any difficult to learn how to play it, just a good game 
 to enjoy.
  The Graphics had much more improviment from the previously games, and it's very worked in this 
 game.
  It still keeps the same things that attractiveness in the other ones, but have your improvement.
 
  It's a little more adult now, like the game has become mature as the players of it, but that helps 
 to keep his fans. For me, it is one of the most marvelous game that I ever played in my entire 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Although very playable for the hardcore Hitman gamers, Hitman 3 takes a turn for the worst, while 
 adding no real new game-play and suffering from various flaws. 
  
  The best way I can describe Hitman 3 is re-run . Another word is boring . This is by far the worst 
 edition of Hitman. You actually replay some of the original levels, although they are expanded 
 . Some of the innovation that made the original games good is lost. My advice is to see this game 
 as an expansion , instead of another edition.
  
  My advice is to wait for the next edition of the game to come out. While it's not necessarily a 
 Bad Game , it could have done a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Eidos Interactive's HITMAN: CONTRACTS for the Pc Games is the third game in the HITMAN series, 
 which revolves around the assassin known only as 47. The game takes place as a series of flashbacks 
 47 sees as he lies dying. During these flashbacks, players experience a wide range of action and 
 stealth missions as they shoot their way across the world. The flashback missions 47 sees during 
 his injury-induced visions include some of the missions from the original game and some new missions, 
 although the original missions have all been upgraded and expanded, so returning players won't 
 feel like they're repeating previous games. Missions include eliminating a pair of brother assassins, 
 disrupting a Russian arms deal, and escaping an asylum as he moves across the globe. Characters 
 tend to speak in their native languages, as well, adding to the international flavor. 47 has many 
 different abilities and weapons available. He can move stealthily, steal clothing to disguise himself, 
 and use a number of poisons in addition to guns to take out his enemies. In many places, players 
 have the option of accomplishing a mission using stealth or attacking enemies head-on, depending 
 on their playing style. There are three difficulty modes, as well, so novice and experienced players 
 can both enjoy the game. Shooter fans will find HITMAN: CONTRACTS a fun, entertaining game with 
 a distinct noir style to it. Fans of the series won't be disappointed, either, as 47 relives many 
 of his most exciting and dangerous missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Hitman Contracts, is probablly the best Hitman game out there. I like the Hitman series quite a 
 bit, but they just leave me feeling empty, like i did not get the full experience. That may be 
 because I dont start over when I am spoted, I kick the crap out of however spotted me, and if I 
 need to I fill 'em up with lead. It is however fun to play the game that way, and then play like 
 you should which is stealth. This is a very fun game to play however, with beautiful graphics, 
 smart AI, lost of weapons to use, multiple ways to beat the level, and many other things that make 
 this the best game in the series. The camera is not bad at all and the ingame menus are easy to 
 navigate. I also liked the first person mode. One thing that I liked was how realistic this game 
 is. You can be shooting in one room with a pistol, but the room with your target, two floors away, 
 may not be the wiser. I liked how many ways you could make your hit as well. This game is so much 
 fun. The score is chilling and fits the game perfectly along with awsome background noises. It 
 is sad though, that this game is nothing compared to Splinter Cell but with the beautiful graphics 
 and awsome score, this is definatley worth your pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartreligion
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 29, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Hitman Blood Money so I looked back to the previous installment of the Hitman series 
 for some more sneaky killing fun. Only to be seriously let down. Graphically it has aged well but 
 the flawed AI make this game impossible to enjoy as guards will shoot you for no reason despite 
 having a perfect cover. Example, in the second mission you're just walking around the party when 
 suddenly people start panicking around you and guards come runningin guns blazing at you. Game 
 over and you can think of is errr, what just happend? 
  Another point of irritation is the lack of fire modes on your weapons. There's no single shot on 
 SMG so taking a bad guy out with a single clean shot is out of the question. You'll fire away your 
 entire clip in no time and get shot while reloading.
  Broken game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 9, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Jumping into this game straight away as a beginner was a nightmare, it wasn't like anything I'd 
 played before. You're not an indestructable super hero, you can't jump, dodge and dive from bullets, 
 you can't take on a group of guards and hope to survive untouched. You're a bald guy armed with 
 some wire and a syringe who steals people's clothes. This is different, and hell is it a challenge.
 
  
  The aim of the game is to be invisible. You've got to make the hit without being noticed or becoming 
 suspicious. This level of invisibilty is shown by a fluctuating bar on screen, you've got to keep 
 it tamed through your actions; how fast you move, where you go, how you look, who you go near, 
 whether or not you hold a weapon, how you carry a weapon... theres a lot to get right and to inevitably 
 go wrong. If your cover fails then you should run and hide, or face the consequences of the red 
 bar and end up in a shoot out your are doomed to lose.
  
  The assignments in the life of Agent 47 are tough. You can't hope to outgun the enemy and charge 
 through the level like a madman, you have to be cunning, think ahead, bide your time. This game 
 demands that you use your brain to come out on top as a silent assassin. You are to be emotionless 
 and analyse the situation like a cold hearted killer, anything to get the job done. Planning ahead 
 is near essential ability you'll learn throughout the game, so by the time you come to execute 
 your plan, you'll know just what to do and when. Of course, trial and error is the method is the 
 method of choice to simply complete the game. You can't know exactly what to do at the start of 
 each level, so you've got to experiment in the way you navigate and complete your missions. Things 
 like finding new disguises, shortcuts, weapons and tools will become second nature. You will find 
 your thoughts playing out what to do, should I poison the wine? No, too difficult to do. openly 
 shoot him in the face in front of his son? , er, could be difficult to cover up... how about throwing 
 a tub of petrol into the fireplace from the next floor up , ah explosive and hilarious. Perfect. 
 Its this kind of thinking (there are better examples) that makes the game so complelling and brutal. 
 Theres plenty of levels to play and many, many methods of death dealing fun to choose from. Theres 
 no doubt that it'll satisfy the your inner assassin. The Good
  -Refreshing gameplay style
  -Tense atmosphere
  -Makes you think
  -Ragdoll!
  
  The Bad
  - Can be frustrating and difficult 
 to master
  
  The Wierd
  -You can fit into everyones clothes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are Agent 47 back in action to do what? Kill some bad guys and make lots of money.
 
  
  Graphics: Prettier than the past games. Still has that sleek, hitman style look.
  
  Missions: Around 10-15, less than Hitman 2 but missions are more detailed and have more options 
 to do your dirty deeds.
  
  Features: All the past Hitman ways to take out your target but more whether it be poisoning his 
 drink, sniping him from a tower, planting bombs in key positions, car bombs, the works.
  
  Weapons: Many. A wide variety of hand guns, rifles, SMGs, and other special Hitman tools.
  
 
  The Good: More detailed missions, weapons, improved A. I.
  
  The Bad: A. I. is improved but could be better
  
  The Ugly: You massacring everyone in sight 
 after you get frustrated
  
  Replayability: Medium
  
  The bottom line: If you love the Hitman Series you must get this but Blood Money is better polished 
 for the noobs and fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The question of whether video games breed murderers or those with psychotic tendencies are drawn 
 to violent titles tends to crop up every once in a while, both in the global media and here in 
 my office. A few of my coworkers have tipped an eyebrow in the direction of the occasional conversations 
 my pal D. G. and I exchange over the gnarly tosses and tumbles accorded by the combination of a 
 rocket launcher and Havok physics, or the amount of realistic gore that graces the walls and floor 
 of games like Doom 3 or The Suffering. Weve discussed the ethics of popping unarmed civilians 
 in the noggin with a pair of scissors in Postal 2 as well as the general subject of what we enjoy 
 most about slinging bullets and plasma rounds around haunted moon bases and the pastoral countryside 
 of Nazi-occupied France. The verdict for the former: Its a game. Get over it. As for the latter, 
 first-person shooters tend to satisfy a yen for exploration in both familiar and exotic settings, 
 resource management in the form of ammo and inventory, and a highly intoxicating rush (however 
 mild or strong) that comes from trying to keep the avatar through whose eyes the gameworld is viewed 
 safe from harm against staggering odds that one couldnt even hope to survive in a realm without 
 magic health kits and those delightful F6/F9 buttons.
  
  Im certain that we drew some looks from my office mates (all of them young enough to get video 
 games, but each of them either theologically opposed to or uninterested in FPSs) when discussing 
 Hitman: Contracts, especially the part about donning a filched BDSM zipper mask and the effects 
 of puncturing the base of a mans skull with a meat hook. Number 47 visits the grottiest locales 
 of his career during a series of shock-induced flashbacks (favorite detail: its always raining 
 and nasty in every reminiscence, since 47 can hear the rain pattering outside of the room in which 
 he lays dying from a gunshot wound in the present) . As before, his goal is to kill  either as 
 judiciously or wantonly as the player prefers, although a Quake-style rampage just doesnt work 
 in a game like this  an occupation that some members of polite society might view as objectionable 
 even when played for pretend.
  
  Heres where I simply sidestep the question of whether the nay-sayers are right; Im not here to 
 stand on a soapbox about personality triggers. For me, however, Contracts hits all the right notes 
 when it comes to shooters and the occasional sneaker: interesting settings, resource management 
 (here in the form of smuggling implements of death into high-security areas and, more than anything, 
 timing) , and the challenge of completing a mission not just alive but undetected. Like I did with 
 Hitman 2, I played each level in Contracts from every angle: quick-and-professional for a Silent 
 Assassin rating, the Voorhees Method whereby I quietly relocate every biker or bodyguard to a pile 
 out back, and even an occasional noisy burst of misbehavin with a purloined shotgun or Uzi. Contracts 
 levels are arranged to reward experimentation. I wandered through every scenario wide-eyed like 
 a particularly evil kid in a candy store, always on the lookout for impromptu weaponry and a unique 
 approach to a front-and-center view of each marks last breath.
  
  If I have any nits to pick over Contracts, I would ascribe them to a certain degree of restlessness 
 over revisiting certain areas (at a sssssllllooooowww walk, no less, since running often draws 
 suspicion) while trying out different methods of invasion. I wandered around the Beldingford Manor 
 level for what seems like forever while trying to figure out a way to stealthily subtract two targets 
 from the worlds population while keeping a captive (and the horses whose alarmed brays kept him 
 secure) among the living. Grief like that is easily assuaged by walking away from the PC for a 
 while, and I always found myself itching for another try soon after.
  
  Hitman: Contracts looks great, runs well (load times are practically nonexistent; how on earth 
 do they do that?) , and leaves wannabe assassins with the satisfaction of a stylish sendoff for 
 some genuinely monstrous people. Although I typically prefer games in which kicking open a door 
 with a railgun in hand is the right approach to any situation, sneaking through said portal in 
 the dark with little more than a pillow or pool cue is never so entertaining as when #47 fulfills 
 his professional obligations. Im not here to discuss whether simulating cold-blooded murder is 
 right, but I can tell you exactly when it became fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_path
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  It is hard to say if Hitman: Contracts is considered a sequel or a prequel since the storyline 
 is somewhat vague and twitchy to follow. Nothing's much been added and very little has been changed 
 except a few tweaks here and there.
  
  47 once again reprises his role in Hitman: Contracts and is back with a darker vendetta, bearing 
 no mercy and no remorse. There is an old saying for a persona of an assassin: killing is my business... 
 and business is good . 47 unequivocally persevere his part from that quote but this time, he has 
 stepped into a big mess. The game starts off with 47 squirming to his flat with a bullet wound 
 around his abdomen, injured from his routine assignment and immediately collapsed. He then begins 
 to have flashbacks from his previous assignments right from the years he started his career until 
 the present time. You on the other hand have the chance to play with these individual assignments.
 
  
  There are twelve stages in Hitman: Contracts and it may sound very little for the hardcore Hitman 
 fans but it is not as easy as you think. There will be many thrills and excitements if you were 
 to execute the silent way because the possibilities are numerous. 47 can silence as many thugs 
 as he pleases and use their clothes to disguise himself. The level designs are astonishingly well 
 done, making every move and kill counts. Weapon selection has been updated giving you the capability 
 to strike more terror and by completing a mission with a Silent Assassin ranking, you will be rewarded 
 with new arsenals that surely to blow people's brains out (Pardon the pun) .
  
  The anesthetic from Hitman 2: Silent Assassin are ameliorate into a syringe, a beneficent to your 
 needs because knocking an enemy unconscious is never been easier and efficient. Players will also 
 be surprise the deja vu they'll be facing in the game. Hitman: Contracts is a refurbishment from 
 it's predecessor presenting a whole new experience for both fans and rookies. Not only the graphics 
 is polished with more vibrant light and shadows but some of the missions from Hitman: Codename 
 47 are also present. It is nice they provided this nice gimmick but it would be better if they 
 make a remake of out the first game instead because fans would want to play new stages and explore 
 new territories.
  
  Once again, you have a choice to play the silent way or the riot way. The first choice allows you 
 to execute your every move with extreme cautions and it is a lot more fun than the second choice. 
 The riot way entitles you to grab any powerful weaponry you could find and can just blast your 
 way to victory, without worrying of the stealthy approach. You can never go wrong with this method 
 regardless of what difficulty you pick and the result is a Mass Murderer ranking.
  
  In conclusion, Hitman: Contracts is an impressive sequel... or prequel for it's stunning visuals 
 and storyline but however the game is surprisingly too short and if they had not put the old missions 
 in the game, it will not be a dismay to the crowds. It may not be my favorite Hitman game in the 
 series but I love it because of it's smooth and milky graphics and dark atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jus2nyce
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  First to to say is that Hitman: Contracts was a really hard storyline to follow, even though some 
 missions have been revamped from previous Hitman games the story just doesn't feel has compelling 
 as the previous.
  
  There has been new weapons added and all missions have the ability to run through it various amount 
 of ways, add replay value of the game really well. Although nothing had really changed from previous 
 titles the game all together is still great.
  
  The level detail in some maps are gruesome and pulls you into the life of a Hitman. You travel 
 all over the world assassinating weird looking villains in the most satisfying ways imaginable. 
 Bullet through the head, poison, bombs, you can do almost have you desire. The ranking system hasn't 
 really changed that much, but the system confines you always to attempt to achieve 'Silent Assassin' 
 which isn't sometimes always fun.
  
  The game is ambitious in trying to make it more immersive although it didn't reach what it intended 
 to be it is still a pretty solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Contracts is another installment to the Hitman series of games, but it does not follow the 
 path of a true sequel or follow-up to the highly successful Hitman 2: Silent Assassin. It is a 
 retelling of most of the first games missions with new and updated graphics. While this may be 
 a big deal for console players that never got to experience the first game, it is a rather mundane 
 experience for PC players as we sit through many levels that we have already played in the first 
 game.
  
  At the start of Hitman Contracts, you have stumbled into a hideout, injured and dying. As you try 
 to fix yourself up, you start to have flashbacks to missions that you have performed in the past. 
 Most of these missions have come from the first game although some original missions and a couple 
 have come from Hitman 2 Silent Assassin. These missions require you to assassinate someone and 
 escape. You are given a lot of leeway in how you perform the missions. Do you storm the gates, 
 guns blazing, or slip in the back door and drop some poison in a glass. Stealth is best, but you 
 are never forced to play the game a certain way. This has been true of all of the Hitman games.
 
  
  The Hitman series has always been a hit or miss item when it comes to graphics. Either you like 
 the graphics or you hated them. There never seemed to be much of a middle ground. This release 
 takes the first games missions and breathes new life into it. The levels have added new levels 
 of detail due to the new engine. Walking around the city to assassinate the leader of the Red Dragon 
 Clan seems more alive with more guards and people taking an interest in you and your business. 
 A reduction of clipping issues has also made the graphics seem a little more real, since you no 
 longer have whole limbs shooting through walls or doors.
  
  Sound is a key factor in games like this. Stepping up behind a victim is going to get you in a 
 shoot out unless you are sneaking up on them. You have to be mindful of the environment. Sneaking 
 up on a victim while avoiding things that might cause you to be detected like stepping on gravel 
 or rocks. It is very immersive as the audio cues can send a mission completely into the tank if 
 you are not careful. Jesper Kyd has hit another one out of the park and is making waves in the 
 game music business. His work is as solid on this game as it was with Hitman 2 and Freedom Fighters. 
 Ambient noise was good, but never really stood out except when it came to environmental noises 
 as mentioned before. Weapon discharges were solid, but since the knife or silenced pistol was your 
 weapon of choice, there were no real loud weapon blasts that you will hear.
  
  So far the game sounds like a winner, but the fatal flaw is the fact that the PC player is paying 
 for a game they have already played, as most of the missions in this game come from the first game. 
 I knew this going into the game and had no problem with it just because I wanted another Hitman 
 experience while waiting for the release of Hitman: Blood Money. But I got the game at a budget 
 price while most ended up paying full price of $40 or $50 for a re-hashed game. Some may rejoice 
 the fact that this version of the game has save points and will allow more to finish the game that 
 did not the first time around. But if you are going to release a game that is primarily a flashback 
 game, full price is not the way to go about keeping your fan base. If this was a completely new 
 game, it would have scored a lot higher, but the repetitive nature of the game takes it down a 
 notch and hurts the final rating.
  
  Hitman Contracts will provide the player with a fun experience if they missed the first game or 
 need a fix while waiting for the next installment of Hitman. If you played and finished the first 
 game, I would hold onto your money until the next Hitman comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saba47
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Hitman series is really one of the best action-stealth series in the world.
  There are many things that make this franchise popular: great story, amzing gameplay, nice soundtracks 
 and many other things.
  If you have played Hitman 1 &amp; 2, you must know that the hitman franchise focuses on the life 
 and missions of a professional assassin, Mr.47. He's a clone made by Dr. Ort Meier with the DNA of 
 five of the world's best assassins. He works for the ICA (international contract agency) . Before 
 every mission a person named Diana Burnwood send him his mission briefing
  and tell him what to do. In most of missions 47 must kill a number of targets or maybe recover a 
 special Item.
  In Hitman Contracts you play as 47 again, most of the problems of the last hitmans are fixed and 
 also IO Interactive has added some new abilities to Mr.47. The most important thing is that you 
 can complete missions in so many ways, you can kill everyone in the map, you can act like a professional 
 and complete level with silent assassin rating or if you're not an expert player you can use both 
 stealth and action to complete the misson.
  The story is that first you see a per-rendered movie that shows 47 is in a hotel in Paris, He's 
 wounded and is going to his room, when he arrives there, He pass out and fall on the ground, in the 
 next scene you see the end of hitman 1, that 47 kills a number 48 and then Dr. Ort meier himself 
 and leaves the area, then the game strats and you must escape the asylum, after this level, you will 
 complete many mission that some of them belong to hitman 1 but they are so much better, in fact 
 47 is remembering his contracts. and between missionsin some pre-rendered movies you'll see a doctor 
 come to 47's room and heal him and then the police come to arrest him. after these missions in the 
 last level 47 must complete his unfinished contract and eascape Paris by a plane.
  The graphics are good, It uses Post Filter by using the pixel shader of the graphic card. Textures 
 are fine and object making is done well.
  musics are great and Jesper Kyd has made special soundtacks for the game.
  So, if you're a fan 
 of stealth games, or if you're a professional Hitman player you MUST play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I like this game good be better but its fine. I like the action, Some of my friends have finished 
 the game and think it is cool. There are lots of game that are like this one. It is alot like Max 
 Payne 2 The Fall Of Max Payne. I love action games, dont you like it too!!!. When I play this game 
 I always get stuck at some point at then do not know where to go next. I would definitely say that 
 this game is better than the one that game just before this one. There are somethings that you 
 could add to this game to make it more fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  agent 47 returns with a sequel whos better the first and a whole lot better graphics gameplay and 
 sound wich is good for both of us... the bevelopers and us the gamers
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics has a huge improvments than the first and looks smooth as a toshiba TV ;) 
 so i was really happy to see that
  
  SOUND: well at this game there is sound because in one level you are in a nightclub and the music 
 is great in the club and overall in the game the sound really makes you fill like you are a part 
 of the experience that 47 pasts
  
  GAMEPLAY: amazing highly addictive gameplay wich will make to stealth untill you will finish the 
 game for the first time and then you will snap out of this the story in the game is good too in 
 the begininng you see him hurt and get inside the house bleeding you dont know way at first but 
 as you progress in the game you will undestand way and than the vandetta crusade will begin
  
  overall this game if fun and one of the most great games i have played and i highly reccomend 
 to buy this game and start to play and never quit untill you shall finish the game and understand 
 what im talking about
  
  BUY BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 497573
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  2 son suficientes, 3 son multitud??? Seria esta la expresion correcta para la franquicia de Hitman??? 
 Bueno dej&eacute; moslo a su criterio, pero podemos decir que Hitman 3: Contracts mantuvo viva la 
 chispa de este juego.
  
  GRAFICOS.
  Casi ninguna con su antecesor. De hecho mejor&oacute; un poco respecto a los efectos de luz y clima. 
 Las texturas son iguales, el aspecto del agente 47 es casi igual. SONIDO
  Optimo. Es igual de bueno que en Hitman 2. La m&uacute; sica es excelente y apropiada en algunos 
 momentos, por ejemplo, cuando causas gran alboroto, se escucha una musica de fondo que realmente 
 te sube la adrenalina.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Nada innovador. Solo algunos movientos nuevos con el 'Fiber Wire' y unos 'cinemas' cuando usas 
 el sniper, o cuando ahogas con la almohada a un enemigo.
  
  HISTORIA
  No tiene una historia. Se basa en recuerdos que tuvo el agente 47, hace un recopilacion de algunas 
 de sus misiones que ha hecho para la Agencia.
  
  En si, Hitman Contracts no ofreci&oacute; mucho, yo lo considero como una expansion de Hitman 2: 
 SA. No digo que es malo, pero que EIDOS &amp; IO debieron esforzarse mas en el desarrollo de este 
 juego. Pero todo mundo es libre de decir como lo cataloguen a este titulo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshin836
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Contracts solves a lot of the problems the first two games suffered from: The AI is better 
 and the dectection system isn't as wonky like it was in Hitman 2. Contracts luckily sticks to the 
 series tried and true formula of taking assignments and well, being a Hitman. Unfortunately, the 
 difficulty is far easier than past games. Even if you find yourself in a sticky situation, you 
 can just blast your way out with no problems and thats unfortunate considering a lot of this games 
 greatness lies in it's stealth tactics. Some of the levels from the first game make a reappearance 
 here but I wasn't bothered too much about this (although hardcode fans of the series may be turned 
 off by the prospect of not every level being new) . The graphics in Contracts are really sharp and 
 good for a 2004 game although you can tell in certain circumstances that this game is using the 
 same engine that you played around in two years ago. All in all, if you've been living under a 
 rock these past few years and your wanting to check out the Hitman series then I would definately 
 recommend Hitman: Contracts as your starting point. Long time fans might feel a bit cheated but 
 Contracts continues the tried and true formula that you've come to love of this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiasr47
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  A word of warning: if you haven't played part 1 (Hitman: Codename 47) but intend to do so; I'm 
 about to comment on the parallels between 'Codename 47' en 'Contracts'. I'll try to reveal as little 
 of the story line as I can, but you might not want to read on nonetheless.
  
  So, part 1. I remember it receiving great critiques - exciting, innovating - but being deemed a 
 bit sloppy. And I agree. Part 2, 'Silent Assassin', was - according to most of the series' fans 
 way better. I say: sure, the visuals were. But personally I thought part 1 was way more intense. 
 Long, difficult levels which required you to do at about everything right for at about half an 
 hour to an hour, or it's back to start for you - no saving possibilities whatsoever. That made 
 it hard, but good. Nothing kills a game like a quicksave after every single enemy you successfully 
 rentroduced to his maker.
  Therefore, I am not sure but I would not be surprised if it has taken me a week or so to take out 
 Boris the Russian arms dealer on his ship in the Rotterdam harbour, for example. Or penetrate the 
 mansion of a Hong Kong triad leader. That was very hard work, and finally succeeding sure gets 
 the adrenalin flowing. And as a result of that, I still remember every part of that mission: the 
 layout of that harbour, blowing up Boris' car (and him with it) , cleaning out the engine room of 
 his ship, putting a bullet in his right hand, and -ok- the way the entire crew vanished (not fled, 
 but vanished in thin air) upon killing Boris. I think that sort of stuff is etched deeper in my 
 memory than any movie scene or something.
  I guess I am weird in that way. Now, if you're weird in that way too, you sure as hell not gonna 
 like meeting up in part 3 with Lee Hong the triad leader, or the bomber in the hotel, to mention 
 a few, EXACTLY like you did in part 1. Visually nicer? I guess, but not much. But so boring! The 
 story line is exactly the same. The options for taking out your targets are exactly the same. In 
 case of the hotel bombing, even the entire location is an exact replica of the 'Codename 47'-hotel. 
 Now, that's a dissappointment. You won't find out right away. The first few missions are new. But 
 half way deja-vu kicks in. And that's, well, dissappointing, boring, and bound to leave silly part 
 1-lovers like me with a bad taste in their mouth.
  
  I'll keep the second point of critique brief, 'cause I've been going on and on long enough: I really 
 don't understand how a disguise is good enough in one room of the premises, and will get you shot 
 to little pieces in the next one. Confusing!
  
  But then again, even if you take the above into account: it is still very cool to creep around 
 in the shoes of Mr. 47. It sure is above average overall. There are many, many good things about 
 the game, most of then mentioned all over the web. No need to recap those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morlune
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to gameplay Hitman Contracts is very much like Silent Assassin. The graphics is slightly 
 better, and there are only minor changes about the controls and weapons. Which is good, since Silent 
 Assassin was a great game. Like Silent Assassin, Contracts also has some really well made missions, 
 but it is also here it fails. About 50% of the missions are remakes from the first Hitman game: 
 Codename 47. The thought behind it was probably to make our favourite missions from the first game, 
 even better. More intense maybe. But all they did was to ruin them. Some of the characters we loved 
 was removed, and the killing possibilities and routines we had worked out was useless.. In other 
 words, half of the missions in Hitman Contracts are really good and well made, while the other 
 half is just ruined copies from the first game. Or actually, half of the missions COULD have been 
 really good, as they have excellent layouts and surroundings and so on.. If they had just taken 
 the time to fix the hundreds of bugs you are guaranteed to encounter.. 
  
  I am sorry to say that it seems that Hitman Contracts was released before it was finished. Those 
 missions that actually works makes the game worth playing though.. That is, if you like the earlier 
 Hitman games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coect
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series started back in 2000 with Hitman: Codename 47, a PC-only title that spawned mixed 
 reactions from the gaming community. It introduced an interesting gameplay system that allowed 
 the players to dress up as the characters you killed in the game and pose as them to gain access 
 to restricted areas and ultimately to the specific target you were sent to assassinate in that 
 mission. However it received relatively low ratings in reviews due to numerous bugs and flaws the 
 game suffered from and also a lack of any save game system during the actual missions. The producers 
 later declared that save games were not implemented to make the game more realistic and force the 
 players to plan their moves wisely. But it was enough for the European developer IO Interactive 
 to make a second game and so, two years later, Hitman: Silent Assassin came along, this time making 
 the series' first entry into the console market. Almost all of the shortcomings of the first game 
 were resolved and a save game system appeared during the missions. The second game received much 
 better ratings in the media and it was an instant hit. Meanwhile, IOI was already working on the 
 third game in the series, Hitman Contracts.
  
  Story
  Hitman Contracts is like its predecessors a third person sneaking game in which you have to complete 
 a series of assassinations in different parts of the globe. The game starts with 47 in Paris, shot 
 while doing one of the contract assignments. After finding refuge in a hotel room he passes out 
 and this is where the game begins. He starts having flashbacks of his previous assignments and 
 almost the entire game actually takes place in 47's mind. The missions have no connection one with 
 another but between them the players always get a view of 47's hotel room and his condition. You 
 do not have to necessarily play the first two games to understand the storyline, but it does help 
 if you want to know different aspects from the life of agent 47.
  
  Gameplay
  If you played the original Hitman: Codename 47 you will remember some of the missions in the flashbacks. 
 Many may consider this tactic to re-make older levels cheap, but the levels themselves look and 
 play almost completely different from the originals. While some of the ways you could complete 
 them in the first game are still present, there are many new ways to finish the missions so both 
 new and old gamers can have a satisfying experience.
  
  The game encourages you to use stealth and enemy disguises to infiltrate guarded areas but you 
 have to be careful not to do anything out of the ordinary (like running around too much, fooling 
 around with your weapons etc.) or the guards will become suspicious and once a gun fight starts 
 it will be very hard to finish the level especially on the tougher difficulty settings. Of course 
 players have the option to just go into a level guns blazing and try to finish it that way but 
 it takes away much of the enjoyment from the game and you don't get the unlockable weapons you 
 can get when you achieve the "Silent Assassin" rating for winning a level completely undetected. 
 And speaking of weapons, a lot of new close combat weapons have been added, most of which are improvisations, 
 like the shovel. Also, after missing from the second game, the suitcase which carries 47's sniper 
 rifles makes a triumphant return! One bad aspect however is that you cannot select the weapons 
 you want to use at the start of the levels until you complete the game at least once, so you have 
 a limited choice of weapons for each level the first time you play through.
  
  The levels are extremely well done, it is obvious by now that IOI are experts at level design. 
 All the missions have multiple paths to complete them, both silently and messy. Most of the areas 
 in the game are populated with lots of civilians. While they can not directly harm you it is always 
 best to avoid them while performing your dirty tricks because they can and will alert the guards 
 and your cover will be blown. There is an in-game map you can access at any time to see the positions 
 of the various characters found on the map. But on the higher difficulty settings you are not given 
 that privilege. Also the number of save games possible during a mission decreases with each of 
 the harder difficulty settings.
  
  The series has evolved from the last game, this time the player has many new ways of doing the 
 missions and most of the levels are much bigger and with multiple targets than in the last parts 
 of the series. Also the game is much more forgiving with disguises and it takes a lot more to make 
 the guards suspicious when impersonating a character. The first person camera mode is still present, 
 but this game was really made to be played from a third person perspective.
  
  Graphics
  Oh the visual side of the game the improvements are not that big, but are certainly noticeable. 
 The producers included a special "post filter" option in the graphics menu that enhances the visuals 
 in the game adding new effects like depth of field. However all this comes at a price because the 
 post filter dramatically reduces the frame rate on older graphics cards. The game supports resolutions 
 all the way from the old 640x480 up to 1280x1024 for LCDs.
  
  I'd like to mention here that the overall theme of the game is much more dark, all the missions 
 take place at night (even though some of the remade missions originally took place during day time) 
 and it rains or is snowing in all of them except for one. I actually liked this aspect because 
 it lets the players get a feel of the way 47 remembers each assignment: dark and disturbing. It 
 helps us better understand the way he thinks when performing a hit.
  
  Minor graphic glitches are present in the game with some clipping problems so make sure you have 
 the latest graphics drivers installed for your video card.
  
  Sound
  The first thing you notice about the sound is the super music composed by the genius that is Jesper 
 Kyd. He has been working with IOI since the series started and the music got better and better 
 with each game. Kyd actually won a BAFTA award for the soundtrack in this game. Yes, it's that 
 good!
  
  The second thing is related to the voices of the characters. As in the previous game, each of the 
 characters in every country speak their native language! It is one of the few series that actually 
 use the real language for each part of the world you visit in the game. While the lines are not 
 too varied, it really adds a lot of realism to the game and it just feels more immersing. Also 
 you can pick up various hints on some levels just by standing hidden and listening to the characters 
 talk so again the game rewards you for using a stealthy approach. On a technical side, the game 
 supports EAX if your sound card supports it as well.
  
  Value
  While Hitman Contracts can be considered a little short especially with the remade missions, it 
 is definitely satisfying to go back to the game and try finishing the missions in a different manner. 
 Basically by playing it only once you are missing out on a lot because this is what this game is 
 all about: having the freedom to go into a mission and finding out all the possible solutions to 
 it. Some of them are obvious and safe, while others might take longer to figure out and have a 
 bigger risk involved. Other times you may just want to load a level and go crazy, kill all the 
 civilians (at one point or another you will be tempted to do this) , see how long you can last in 
 the level or how fast you can beat it. The possibilities are endless. I still play this game from 
 time to time and i have already spent days trying to figure out new ways to win the missions.
 
  
  Closing comment
  After playing all of the first three games in the series i can definitely say that this one is 
 the best so far. This time they got the balance just right with the disguises, the arsenal of weapons 
 is very large, the levels are beautiful and extremely well made and the numerous ways of completing 
 them will make you come back over and over. While the game suffers from some minor bugs, they are 
 eclipsed by the positive aspects of the game. It is advised to install the latest patch from the 
 EIDOS website before starting to play. If you are a fan of the Hitman series this is a must-have 
 game and you will surely feel familiar with it in a matter of minutes. If you are new to the series 
 you can try the demo of the game to see it in action. I strongly recommend getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  The Hitman series is truly unique. It hasnt even spawned any imitators. When its at its best, 
 you infiltrate a heavily guarded area in disguise, assassinate your target (s) , and then get out 
 without anybody noticing you were ever there. This gives you a devious feeling that you cant get 
 in any other game. Contracts has 12 great missions, instead of the ambivalent mixture of quality 
 and crap that was Silent Assassain. There arent as many missions as the previous games, but each 
 one is much more refined and has a lot more options for stealthing. This makes each one satisfying, 
 even if the game doesnt last as long (I finished in about 12 hours, and I played the game really 
 really slow) .
  
  The greatest strength of Contracts is in its level design. The levels provide you with a lot 
 more options and a lot more freedom this time around. This is a quality of the game that a lot 
 of reviewers seem to have overlooked. Every level, except for perhaps the first, is really big, 
 with lots and lots and lots of NPCs in it. The design feels very realistic. In most games, a crowded 
 dance floor only has six people on it. In Contracts, a crowded dance floor is truly crowded and 
 it might have 25 people on it, in addition to three dozen spread out elsewhere. This adds a lot 
 to the immersiveness of the game. It doesnt feel like youre playing video game levels. It feels 
 like youre infiltrating realistic locations. Each location is full of potential witnesses to your 
 crime, going about their business.
  
  Every kill has near-unlimited ways to pull off with your basic weapons. The game supplements those 
 ways with lots of special kills for each level, like poisoning and electrocution. If you observe 
 your subjects enough, every targets routine has at least one window of opportunity to kill him. 
 A victim might take an occasional trip to the toilet or do some other chore. But its never really 
 easy  his personal bodyguard might be with him, so you have to sneak past him or distract him 
 somehow (or kill him and take his clothes) .
  
  The hunting mansion level is a perfect example of the variety and freedom inherent in the game. 
 There is one guy that you can kill by poisoning his milk. Or, you could smother him with a pillow 
 while he sleeps. Or, you could pick up a pool cue and whack him to death with it. Or you could 
 just shoot him in the head once with a silenced pistol shot. There are a lot of satisfying choices 
 here, which werent present in the first or second iterations of the series.
  
  For 2004, Contracts was a pretty nice-looking game. It still looks good. The lighting is excellent 
 and theres a wide variety of environments to explore. NPCs have lots of detail, and they are 
 animated very nicely. One level that looks especially good is the snowy Russia level, where heavy 
 snow and bright outdoor lights create a haze-like look. The environments are kind of plain-looking 
 and bare though. 
  
  Unfortunately, this series doesnt seem to be be addressing some of its big core problems. One 
 problem is that the rag doll physics are still absolutely ridiculous. I realize that this game 
 came out in 2004, before Half-Life 2, but even before that, other games did rag-doll physics better 
 than this. The game makes a lot of attempts at realism, but that realism collapses when you blast 
 a guy with two shots from your twin ballers and he flies across the room and almost hits the ceiling, 
 like he has been shot out of a cannon. Silent Assassin had this problem. Contracts shouldnt have. 
 Its absurd.
  
  Another major problem with this game, and with the others, is that the AI is really inconsistent 
 and wonky. I thought after Freedom Fighters that this game would have great AI. I was wrong. Everybody 
 in a level will suddenly go mental on you for no reason sometimes. The game devotes its AI mostly 
 to the stealth aspects of the game. That means that if it turns to run-and-gun action, the AI becomes 
 absolutely god-awful. Other reviews have stated this, but its worth repeating  if you get into 
 trouble, all that you have to do is find a single SMG or AK-47 and find a choke point where enemies 
 will come at you one or two at a time and run right into your bullets. You can mow down 12 or 15 
 of these retarded enemies without any threat of getting killed. This means that every level is 
 either way too easy to run and gun, or pretty hard to stealth. There is a huge, huge difficulty 
 balance problem. The game gives you no in-game reason to use stealth, other than giving you a title 
 after each level. If you dont care about your title, you could run-and-gun your way through the 
 game in about two or three hours. If you earn the Silent Assassin title, the game rewards you 
 by giving you better weapons. But if you are stealthing the levels, you wont use those weapons, 
 so whats the point? I hope that Blood Money comes up with a better solution to this.
  
  Another problem with this game is that it is impossible to make a little mistake. There is little 
 middle ground between being a mass murdering machine and a silent, stealthy killer. This is because 
 when you make a single mistake and blow your cover, every guard on the map knows who and where 
 you are and bears down on you with guns blazing. One little mistake completely blows any stealth 
 plans that you had to smithereens. Walk too close to some guy for a second, and you have to reload 
 your saved game. This problem isnt unique to Contracts though. The other two hitman games have 
 been the same way.
  
  Most levels have at least one extra objective, but Contracts could do without them They include 
 goals like rescuing hostages and disposing of weapons of mass destruction. Its kind of lame. Agent 
 47 is not a good guy. He is there to murder, collect a paycheck, and get out. Let Sam Fisher defuse 
 the bombs.
  
  Audio-wise, I love the way that guards and civilians all speak in their own languages. I much prefer 
 hearing a Russian guard speak Russian instead of some stupid-sounding voice accent. The soundtrack 
 is one of those minimalist soundtracks that you hardly notice. I didnt think that it was that 
 great. Compared to Freedom Fighters and Silent Assassin, the soundtrack for this game is not impressive 
 at all. It only has about 12 tracks. I did love the theme music though.
  
  Overall, Hitman: Contracts is pretty short, but should be a very pleasing game to fans of the series. 
 It sports some excellent level design and a great theme. You might be frustrated by the persistience 
 of wonky AI and bad rag doll physics, but if you liked the previous Hitman games, youll probably 
 like this one. Or, if youre looking for a very unique twist on stealth gaming, you should check 
 out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Remember codename : 47? I do. and I remember the 
  
  overwhelming amount of bugs in the 1st game. But I also remember the 
  
  great redesign and 
 improved system of Hitman : Silent Assasassin. 
  
  Which brings us to the latest addition to the family, Hitman : 
  
  Contracts. On the whole, 
 its got the same undeniable style as the 
  
  older Hitman games, but the amount of glitches and bugs are a 
  
  little too distractive. 
 
  The game is wrapped in good-enough graphics, nice music, 
  
  good voice acting, a clunky to use game menu, and very stupid AI.
  The AI in this game is both 
 stupid in the sense that they don't 
  
  react to obvious things like the Hitman going into a room and 
  
  leaving in a different costume. 
 This is acceptable, but the fact 
  
  that some have no brains at all, is a little unbearable. For 
  
  example, I was in a section 
 where there is a guard standing in the 
  
  next corridor, I talked to the guard which probably would have 
  
  memorized my face. Now I 
 walk away so that the guard was in a 
  
  corridor around a bend, which is separated by 6 feet of air and 1 
  
  inch of a wooden door. 
 The mercenaries are all the way upstairs, one 
  
  floor above me. So I open up a hotel door. Shoot the guy inside with 
  
  standard dual-baller 
 pistols, which you can imagine is pretty loud.
  i change into his suit, and all of a sudden the mercenaries barge 
  
  into the hotel room. 
 They just stand there, pistols drawn, and I was 
  
  in a cop uniform, my suspicion bar was at zero, which meant they 
  
  were convinced that I 
 was a guard. And they were still having their 
  
  guns out and their not supposed to bring weapons in the hotel ( I 
  
  knew this because I stole 
 a mercenaries uniform and got busted when 
  
  they found guns on me) . So anyway, that wasn't what freaked me out. 
  
  When I went round the 
 bend, the guard was still there calm and cool. 
  
  I was even given access to a restricted behind him!
  But considering the nice level-design, many 
 ways of taking 
  
  out your target, Bonus weaponry, great style, this is one good game, 
  
  and worth your moneys worth, if your into the genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 3 is, like its predecessors a very nice game, through which you can have plenty of fun with 
 the unlimited possibilities and freedom that the game offers. In fact, I have just started playing 
 hitman 3 and i must confess that i wasn't surprised to find myself got into the atmosphere of the 
 game. hitman 3 is not that much different from the previous hitman (silent assassin) because it 
 almost delivers the same principles and aspects of the previous game, however, there are new maps, 
 and a few things added (weapons, gadgets and kill possibilities) . the graphic engine, I must confess, 
 is no special than the previous one, in fact, i found that the graphics in hitman 2 is quite better 
 than in hitman 3. however, graphics remain nice and very detailed in hitman 3. the game play on 
 the other hand, is amazing ; much freedom and nice moves. the sounds are good as well, however, 
 the story is a bit confusing. I think that hitman contracts is an awesome game for those who like 
 sneaking, and killing in th dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsofsamurai
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  HITMAN: CONTRACTS
  
  I'm a new fan of the Hitman series and man, is it addicting or what. This game combines the stealthy 
 tactics and crazy sub-machine guns shooting to make a great game.
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay is fun but it sure does get boring at times. It's set in 3 person view but you can 
 change it to 1st if you want to. If anyone played Splinter Cell then you know what I'm talking 
 about. You're an assassin who shows no mercy but you can depending on the type of person you are. 
 You can basically kill anyone you wish even innocents! Basically what you do in Hitman is to kill 
 targets and get out of there without being seen or heard but you don't have to do that. You can 
 get in there and start blasting anyone who comes near you. Doing so will increase your aggresive 
 meter and getting a bad rating at the end of the mission.
  
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics are just beautiful. There's blood and bullet holes and they stay there for a period 
 of time. The environment is well design and the levels are creative. 
  
  Sound:
  This is a stealthy game after all meaning there won't be much music, right? Wrong! The sound is 
 great in this game, the guns all sound different when fired. An AK-47 will actually sound like 
 the realy AK-47 and a silenced .45 will sound like it's counterpart in real life. There are the 
 occasional music depending on your situation. Which means if your in danger a dangerous music tone 
 will be heard and when there's no danger, well, you'll get to hear what's around you. Which also 
 means, if your outside and it's cold and snowy, you'll hear the wind, if you're in a crowed place 
 then you'll hear the people around you talk.
  
  Value:
  The value is very high in my opinion. The game is great, you have choices to make on your missions. 
 Should I take this person out or should I just wait till someone else comes along. This game let's 
 you make choices like no other to complete your mission. For example. You could disguise yourself 
 as a worker and silently get near the target or you could just walk in, take out your double .45s 
 and just start blasting.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt. 
  I love this game, it's as addicting as the Splinter Cell series. I just became a new fan of the 
 game and will stay forever a fan thanks to the many options and choices in the gameplay. I highly 
 recomend this game to all teens and even adults. Hope you enjoy my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nt-Jerk
Rating: 5
Date: May 3, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  Okay.. Although I totally love the Hitman games, I must say that this game was disappointing. You 
 get thrown into the game in very difficult situations, without any help on what you are supposed 
 to do. I thought that the "Silent assassin" was great at this point with a good description on 
 what your mission was all about. 
  
  Before every mission, a movie is rolled. I don't understand this. I don't see the meaning of it. 
 And I haven't gotten long enough into the game to figure it out. Even though that i have played 
 for quite a while. 
  
  Once again, I must remind you all off this bad way to start a mission. You get no description of 
 the mission or where to find the target. You just get to the scene and then you are told that you 
 must kill certain guys. I loved the way you got small movies and pictures in the beginning of the 
 mission, to identify the target and the surroundings. 
  
  I think that it is confusing get thrown into a situation like that, and often, it is hard to be 
 stealth and therefore it may end up in a massacre instead of The Silent Killer.
  
  I stopped playing, because I got to a place that I think is a very hard situation. Once you enter 
 the level, SWAT will enter your hotel room in less than a minute. - They are in the hallway and 
 on the streets, so you can't totally hide. Everywhere you go, they see you, so you just have to 
 run for it for a while.
  That isn't the way the game is supposed to be played. And just to make bad WORSE, once I got to 
 the street in safety, I didn't know what to do. I ran around for half an hour, in a very small 
 area, but still couldn't find the exit. That is what I mean by a bad description of the mission..
 
  
  //Nt-Jerk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liverpoolmania7
Rating: 3
Date: May 1, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  before i tell you about the game itself, i will compare it to the previous games, hitman 1 and 
 2
  
  first off, if you have played hitman 1, dont even consider buying this game. most of the levels 
 are just the exact same levels from hitman 1. these levels are meant to be "flashbacks". i describe 
 them more accurately by saying "this is just the creators of the game being lazy and just using 
 old levels and storylines to fill up the gaps created by the makers laziness".
  
  in hitman 2 you had a few options to complete the level. there was the "i have a gun, you can have 
 some bullet in your brain" way which was both fun and acceptable. there was the sneaky but enjoyable 
 way where you get to do a little killing and a little sneaky work. and then there is the super 
 sneaky way where you go for silent assassin the whole time. in hitman 3 you have the right way 
 and the almost right way. this gives you minimal flexibilty on what you want to do. sure you can 
 go and kill this guy in the corner who is watching his urine trickle down a drain pipe but eventually 
 you will walk back to the path that cannot be avioded. so the game really only has 1 way in which 
 to do every level so no matter what you do, you will be following the yellow brick road by the 
 end of the mission
  
  summary. weapons are good, a few more than last time inlcuding a pool cue and some of those non 
 projectile weapons. missions as i said are deplorable. it would be better and cheaper if you just 
 went and bought Hitman 1 because they games are very similar. the story line has been cut out of 
 the game. all you are given is that 47 has been shot and at the end he has to escape as swat teams 
 are closing in around him, that is the last mission. so no storyline. gameplay is not very good, 
 not smooth at all on the 3 CPUs that i played the game on. i doubt this is bad luck *wink wink*
 
  
  buy it if:
  - you are a millionaire with too much timeon your hands
  - you are a crazy Hitman fan and want just those few levels that are unique to hitman 3
  - you 
 are a weapons freak and wanna use them in a game
  - you havent played hitman 1 and you dont pay attention to story lines
  
  dont buy it if:
 
  - you are sane
  - you have played H1 (reasons stated above) OR hitman 2 (as the qualtiy of gaming goes down from 
 2 to 3)
  - you love a good storyline and like guns
  
  just a game that really disapoints after the player after hitman 2 as the quality of gaming is 
 dropped like a stone. almost everyone that has written a review has gotten it wrong. they may like 
 the game but the thing that a real game needs are lacking.
  
  my classification says it all. i have been there and done that years ago. i dont need to pay money 
 to repeat myself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  One of Hitmans strongpoints! There are so manny diverse missions, each with their unique location 
 and several diffirent kill possibilaties. This really adds to the replay value.
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing special here. Verry up to date. Some outstanding character design and nice 
 physics! The level design is absolutely fantastic! Much better then in Hitman 2
  
  Sound:
  A real strongpoint! The music is absolutely fantastic! The band and the choir are exelent 
 and really add to the atmosphere! The diffirent languages are also verry nice. Just because they 
 didn't use english with an accent fore the Russians and the Chinese!
  
  Value:
  Don't know what value is...
  
  Tilt:
  Must play more... Cant... stop... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trochilus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Let's cut right to the chase:
  
  Compared to Hitman: Silent Assassin, Contracts improved the game in quite a few ways. 
  One of 
 those improvements is the amount of options you have to complete your mission. In Silent Assassin 
 your only options were mainly to either shoot or strangle your target. Sometimes youd get a knife 
 so you could try gutting m. In Contracts, depending on the mission, you can poison, strangle, 
 stab (ordinary slashing with knives) , shoot, gut (by which I mean meat hooks that tear open your 
 victims and swords that go right through m) , choke (pillows and overheating saunas) , blow up (ordinary 
 car bombs or improvising with gasoline) or even electrocute your target. The possible ways to get 
 to your target have also increased; front doors, back doors, multiple other doors, basements, open 
 windows; plenty of opportunity. All of this makes this game a lot more fun than its predecessor 
 and it makes it more likely that youll want to complete the game again, only then in a different 
 way. 
  
  Another improvement is the way your victims go down. If you shoot them in the stomach for example, 
 they dont die right away and fly two streets further, like in the previous Hitman game. Now, they 
 fall to the ground, moaning in agony. In addition, they just stay that way until you shoot them 
 again or wait until they bleed to death. What realism!
  
  As with almost every follow-up, the graphics have improved a lot too. Better lighting and shadows, 
 the dust, smoke and water effects look more realistic and the details are nice too, not only qua 
 graphics, but also in the rest of the games aspects. 
  
  For example: As a Dutchman, I really enjoyed Rotterdam. I was amazed to hear actual Dutch, instead 
 of some English/American guy trying to speak German. Moreover, when those Dutch guys tried to speak 
 English, it was the true (terribly bad) Dutch-accent kind of English. And the police! Wow, everything 
 was perfectly done. Both my parents are cops, so trust me; I know how they ought to look. 
  Their uniforms, the vans, the AT (Dutch version of SWAT) ; all looking good. Except for the reactions 
 of the police officers of course, but if theyd make that realistic, the Rotterdam level would 
 be too easy. Dutch police is namely never allowed to shoot, only when shot at of course, but then 
 they always have to aim for a leg. Yeah, here in Holland you cant even hit a guy whos trespassing 
 (especially not if youre a cop) , without running the risk of being sued :S
  
  But let's get back to the game. 
  Luckily, Hitman: Contracts also still includes a huge amount 
 of weapons to pick from and some weapons that can only be obtained via getting the Silent Assassin 
 ranking. I must say that this time I was more motivated to be a silent assassin than in Hitman: 
 Silent Assassin itself. Murdering without anybody noticing you requires some thinking and stealth, 
 but is quite a nice challenge and it makes the kill extra satisfying...
  
  On the whole, the game is absolutely fantastic, so number 4; Blood Money, has some high expectations 
 to live up to. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  The Hitman series are not for everyone... But to those who find it exciting to figure out THE PERFECT 
 HIT! 
  Wow, I must say I'm totally sold on the Hitman series! Ever since Codename 47 came out a good while 
 back I've never played games with so much replay value! And that goes for all the titles!
  
  The hitman, or codename 47, is born in a test-tube experiment performed by a crazy terrorist 
 doctor that you finally kill in the first game after he played you like a pawn in his own, sick 
 game.
  
  Then in the sequel, silent assassin, he's on his own, seeking forgiveness from god for all the 
 nasty business he was up to in the prequel. But (naturally) he's forced back into doing what he 
 does best, KILLING!
  
  Now, in Contracts, 47 has been seriously wounded after being lured into a trap. So what happens? 
 He passes out! And he recalls his previous 'contracts' as he lies in a pool of his own blood. These 
 memories are where YOU come in and play them!
  
  The first dream that comes to his mind, is right at the end of the first game, as he snaps the 
 neck of his "father". The crazy doctor that created him!
  And from there it's all a mix of NEW and REMAKE style missions!
  
  The NEW missions are SUPER 
 in my oppinion! They are tricky, have great variety and have many options as to how you want to 
 terminate your targets. Both the "Meatking" and "Mansion" missions are MASTERPIECES in level design!
 
  
  As for the REMAKES they are from some of the best levels in the previous games! Sure, I too thought 
 it was kind of a cheap trick. But IO have tweaked them just enough to make it interesting again. 
 And it's not like you'll remember the exact layout of these levels anyway. Codename 47 came out 
 around 2K so if you DO... you're good.
  
  Graphics and sound have always been great in these games and this one is no exception! Great atmosphere! 
 You're THERE!
  
  Controls may be weird for newcomers but once you get used to them, they work splendid! 
  
  
 Now I'll get to WHY I love these games. The planning! The replay!
  The game rates you by how well you performed yourhit ". 
  A professional hitman is one who 
 is unseen, unheard and leaves no trace! He just leaves dead bodies! And only those bodies his employer 
 told him to target. And if you can do that, then you deserve the title of "Silent Assassin"! The 
 highest ranking. 
  And THAT'S what is so fun! First time you play a mission you may be getting "Butcher" or "Psycho" 
 rating because everthing goes to hell. 
  Then you think, WAIT A MINUTE! I'M NO PSYCHO! THEY GOT THIS ALL WRONG! You're a Silent Assassin, 
 so go back and prove it!
  
  It's when you go back that you start seeing new ways of completing your contract and you get rewarded 
 with cool cutscenes. And a SS rating will always unlock an exclusive new weapon that can be used 
 whenever you replay a level!
  
  Only bad thing I have to say for Contracts is that you dont get to choose your close-combat weapon 
 when you replay a level. That's what the professional will use most frequently anyway, so that's 
 stupid. Oh yeah, and the voice-acting. Please find someone to make 47 sounding as stone-cold as 
 he looks, please IO? 
  
  And I also must say, HITMAN is not for everyone. Some love it (like me) others hate it. People 
 who just like to shoot everyone they see will not be very thrilled with hitman. There ARE better 
 shooters out there. 
  But hitman are for those of us who are just aching to figure out how to make THE PERFECT MURDER! 
 ( Hey, dont look at me like that... )
  
  I'm eagerly awaiting the next episode in the legend of 47! So I can get back at the bastard who 
 set him up. They're messing with the wrong dude!
  
  GO HITMAN! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Although most people still believe that Hitman: Silent Assasin was the best in the series, I believe 
 Contracts should be. Hitman Contracts has its ups and downs. First of all, it has the same controls, 
 which make it easier to play and it is still fun to see how many different ways you can kill a 
 person. Yet most levels are remakes from Codename 47. But the levels have been faithfully recreated. 
 The level, the Beldingford Manor is one of the best as it allows so many ways to kill your target. 
 Contracts has twice as many ways to rid your target then Silent Assasin. In Beldingford Manor, 
 you can poison the targets mik, shoot him while hes doing his business in the bathroom, or suffocate 
 him. You can also rid his son by placing a bomb in the chimney or poisoning his whiskey. Another 
 great level is the Traditions of the Trades level which takes place in the Hotel Gallear from Codename 
 47. You can eliminate one target in so many ways like drowning him, straight foward shooting him, 
 sniper him from the top of the pool, posion his whiskey, and frying him in the sauna. Great levels 
 but there aren't enough of them. There are only 12 and you can take them out in 40 mins. or less.
 
  
  Ups
  + easy controls
  + still has rag dolling (which makes you fling enemies in awesome ways like shooting them in the 
 head and having them do a backflip)
  + fun levels and many alternate ways to kill targets 
  + stays fun
  
  Downs
  - only twelve levels
  - quick levels
  - usually dumb A. I.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasdaqw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  It is the best hitman game ever. You take the role of the coldblooded, bald murderer with the codename 
 47. The ONLY bad thing is that it is short. The missions are excellent designed and so the graphics. 
 There are many ways to kill your target. By, taking guns and shoot everyone like a mad man or disguise 
 your self as a waiter and poison your target's drink or even better put laxative in his soup and 
 wait to struggle him in the bathroom. In hitman contracts you have a variety of weapons including 
 the fiber wire, syringe and the two pistols. It is really a revolutionary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Hitman Contracts is a third person stealth-action game developed by Eidos. Contracts is the third 
 chapter in the series.
  
  Hitman is kind of different than Splinter Cell, Metal Gear Solid, Thief or other stealth games. 
 While you can still hide in shadows, you wont have to use them much. Its more about disguises. 
 Youll definitely be recognized if youll walk around with the black costume. Eliminate a foe, 
 and take his clothes. Now youre much safer.
  
  Before starting the game, you should pass the tutorial. It shows you the basics of being a Hitman 
  how to approach an enemy stealthy, how to get past locked doors, etc. Theres also a shooting 
 range there  good for practicing shooting.
  
  Theres a big variety of weapons in the game  there are pistols, shotguns, rifles, and more. At 
 the start of a mission, you get a silenced pistol (non-silenced on higher difficulty levels) , a 
 fiber wire, night vision goggles, a syringe, and a lock-pick. The night vision goggles are completely 
 useless, in my opinion, as you can easily see in the dark without them. The binoculars can be used 
 for scouting areas from a distance. You always got to have a strategy, plan all your moves. Do 
 something wrong, and your cover is blown. Then prepare to deal against a big group of foes.
  
  Here are a few things that can blow your cover: getting seen with a weapon equipped  use the 
 Q button to hide / equip a weapon ; NPC spotting a dead / unconscious body  ALWAYS hide bodies. 
 Learn the enemies routes, and put bodies out of sight ; getting identified at close range  always 
 check the presence bar on your HUD  if an NPC is curious, the presence bar will increase. Try 
 to avoid contact with NPCs as much as possible.
  
  There are many ways to get rid of an enemy. The easiest is, of course, shooting  but it can draw 
 attention quickly if the gun doesnt have a silencer on. If you want to eliminate an enemy using 
 stealth, use your gadgets, such as the fiber wire or the syringe  equip one, approach the enemy 
 from behind and press the left mouse button. 47 will put the wire around the NPCs neck, and choke 
 him. You can also equip things, such as knives or meat hooks, and use them as weapons. But the 
 stealthiest way, of course, is using poison. Put some poison into food / drinks that the target 
 is going to get, and you wont have to worry about being spotted. Its much better than putting 
 a bullet into an enemys head in front of other NPCs.
  
  There are many disguises in the game  a waiter suit, a SWAT uniform, and more. Use them. For example, 
 if you put on the SWAT uniform, youll be able to go to areas where only the SWAT are allowed. 
 But, as I already said, try to avoid contact with enemies as much as possible, or youll blow your 
 cover easily.
  
  After you pass a mission, a screen shows up showing how well you did your job  youll see the 
 number of enemies you killed, how many times youve been identified, and more. There are also two 
 bars showing how much aggression and stealth you used. For example, shooting people is aggressive, 
 so shoot one, and the aggression bar will increase ; choking them with the fiber wire or using 
 the syringe is stealthy. The stealthier you are, the better your rating is. If you dont use ANY 
 aggression, your rating is Silent Assassin. You get a reward for passing a mission with the best 
 rating  you can get dual silenced pistols, shotguns, and more.
  
  You have a limited number of saves per a mission, so use them only if you really REALLY need to. 
 When playing on the lowest difficulty, you get seven saves. Play on the highest difficulty, and 
 youll have to pass the mission without saving at all. Its harder, but much more pleasurable to 
 pass a mission with the highest difficulty setting, and / or the best mission rating.
  
  The music in this game is great  props to Jesper Kyd. There isnt a big variety of tracks in the 
 game however, they give missions a mood. If you really like the soundtrack, theres a CD available 
 to buy.
  
  The physics are... well funny. One shot in the head and the NPC will fly five meters away. Its 
 unrealistic, but again, it looks pretty cool when playing Rambo.
  
  Contracts is a great game. Its quite lengthy, and the missions are fun, so you wont be bored. 
 Recommended to all stealth fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HimHvoHitman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  I know many people were disappointed of this game and I know why. People were relating to much 
 to the big step SA took. If you compare this game to the standard jump SA took, then yes, it was 
 a bit disappointing. But if you just take the game itself, not being unfair then its actually a 
 really good game.
  
  Gameplay: It rocks! The many locations and features and options is just making the gameplay damn 
 good. Yes, I loved the other Hitman games gameplay, but this is absolutely the best gameplay of 
 the games IMO. I love the different locations and the dark rainy style just makes it more cool 
 to me. It was a bit of a cheap trick to use 50% of C47s levels. But in some ways its also cool. 
 To think: "What did I do here in C47" and then have the same option and many more is just very 
 cool. The flashback idea is working fine to me too. I now know that we didn't get all of the story 
 in Contracts and we gonna get the last of it in BM. The AI was ok. A lot like SA and thats alright. 
 Best gameplay in the series! 
  
  Graphics: They're ok. One thing really bothered me. Its more bad than SAs. Wtf the earlier game 
 had better graphics! Thats wired.. And the rainy weather effects is actully "real" bad. But the 
 snow in the 3rd level is on the other hand really good.. Ok graphics for a game in 2004.
  
  Sound: Very nice as always. It suits the dark game perfect. Maybe a little more of that symphony 
 could be cool. But great music.
  
  Value: The replay value is a very strong point. There is so many ways to complete the levels that.. 
 You could play new ways for two years. I have played this game through maybe 25 times and I have 
 found new ways evertime.. It last really long! 10/10!
  
  A damn good game if it isn't compared to the old standard jumps!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: genius_80492
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The game is highly technical and tactical ............. So no use playing witout tactics and plans..... A 
 highly mind based game......... The Graphics are jus cool and the sounds don give much of life....... The 
 gameplay is extraordinary and brilliant.... Hands off to IO interactive for giving such a beautiful 
 game.. During the play of the game there are obstacles which you hav o pass..... They are simply 
 cool.... The level MEAT KING PARTY is the most technical and brilliant...... It was really a thrilling 
 experience when I finished the level...... To say abt game it is really coooooooooooooool.. The characters 
 are lively and the highlihgt in all the hitman games is that the changing of the clothes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cky1451
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Hitman Contracts, is a game that re creates missions of Codename Agent 47. This game is acctually 
 real good. Despite the short story and lack of one. it is good. The veriety of weapons and ways 
 that you could make the hit is wide. its a well put together game that finishes very well. the 
 grpahics are very crisp and clean with an excellent score by Jesper Kyd once more. its a great 
 game go get it now if u want a really good experience. There is plenty of room for palyback experience. 
 just go buy it... now. its a great fun filled experience that anyone could love. Hitman contracts 
 is an excellent game with everyones favorite bald male. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Who wouldn't like to sneak behind your prey with piano wire, and choke them to death!? lol. The 
 character is so awesome. They couldn't have thought up of anything better. This title actually 
 has the same extras as the last two, but with better boards, and carnage than the first two. Very 
 creative boards with the new weapons at your disposal. The Meat hook, and fire poker are cool. 
 Plus with the new firearms! This is on my top 10 list of all time favorites. The lighting, and 
 graphics are also good in this sequel. Very impressive. Blood money is still due in a month, and 
 I can't wait to get that. I know this series is going to be a hit... among us hitmen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  now i am a veteran player of the great Hitman series which has been my favorite series for a while, 
 so i eagerly waited for Hitman: Contracts the 3rd game in the series well i got it and was plesantly 
 relieved to find it was a great game like the rest of them heres my review
  
  Gameplay: great if your a fan of series you'll like it even more bet it should appeal to the average 
 gamer with a decent capacity of violence handeling. Its a game where you can do the missions the 
 way you want stealth or violent, slow or fast, are you going to only kill your target or everyone 
 else with him there are different ways of doing the missions some controls you might have to get 
 used to but its great and also the best "Ragdoll" physics i've seen yet
  
  Graphics: beautiful use of Nvida and ATI video cards great bump mapping and animations not to metion 
 the great character models
  
  Sound: very good sound effects and soundtrack and the main character speaking lines are great as 
 well as the dialouge even to the point where foreigners aren't the best at speaking english and 
 using their native language
  
  Value: good game for the price, replay value can be great
  
  Final word: a great game get if you like the series and also if you like stealth/action games 
 in general 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minwers
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Hitman contracts (pc) was awaited be me. ive played both codename 47 and hitman 2 silent assassination. 
 Hitman contracts is a a pretty good game for its type. the most frustrating part is trying to do 
 the mission silently which is pretty rewarding at the end. however the graphics provided by the 
 game pushes you to pull out ur ballers and shoot everyone and everything you see. what i didnot 
 like was the missions, they were very few and they seemed to fly by. some where frustrating and 
 i wish there were more obvious. however some missions where a repetition from the first himan codename 
 47. so if you played the game earlier you would know wat to do. the game has some missions from 
 previous hitmans which makes people think its kinda a knock off. the story line is difficult to 
 understand not the same as hitman 2 where it was a continuation of hitman codename 47. if you focus 
 more on the mission and less on the story line you would like it i give it an 8.2 for its good 
 graphics and weapon selections
  
  PS: excuse my spelling :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Agent 47 comes on to the 3 part the part wich fixed the gliches in the first and the second as 
 this game is cool you will play once again as Agent 47 I didnt like one thing in the game its too 
 easy 
  Ex: as mession tell you to kill that man as you play you can finish it will alots of good ways but 
 thats not the problem if you play the same level alot you will descover a way to finish what you 
 want in minets And i mean minets 
  as ho played the game may say that what i am saying is rubish but hear is the proof 
  Last mission 
 in a room filled with gas and swat every where after maby a minit they come out to you saw what 
 you do at the bigening is saying "oh no how this is hard one agains a hundred ho dont die easy 
 i cant winbut after you get what you should wich is very easy its end fast i took 5 minits only 
 to finish it 
  
  Story: After all what i said up i am shure that i bored you saw ho doeasnt know the hitman trilogy 
 its a bout an Agent called 47 ho was created by the goverment to finish their dirty work with help 
 of an operator called Diana As the first part tells you about the dirty work the second make you 
 find a frieand wher you thinked at the bigining about retiring then some gangsters come and want 
 money for you freaind "The Priest" and the third one Doesnt have a story the levels arnt connected 
 to each other only a little like the china town levels other than that their is no connection 
 
  
  Charcters: agent 47 , Diana and more ho will help parly 
  
  Envirument: Changes from a place to place From china to a hosplital to a hotel to disco and more
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchineseboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  hitman contracts is way better then the second one. all though it is based off the first one and 
 most missions are the same i think its still better. in this one most of your missions are on the 
 streets of some big city. at the begining you start out in a insane assylum and you have to fight 
 your way out with the swat looking for you. there are many ways out i tried all of them my best 
 escape was out the front door and drivin a cop car out. the weapons in this game have improved. 
 instead of a 9mm silenced pistol you have your own custom made silenced baller. the bad part of 
 this game is that not like the second one when you have achieved silent assassin you get a better 
 weapon but in the third on you dont get use the weapons on the mission. only in the training you 
 can get your new weapons. but the game is sill fun without the fun. i just cant wait till the 4 
 one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArneZ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great pice of gaming. The graphics and sound is simular to the other games, but it dosnt 
 matter because the game is as great as always.
  There are 12 missions, which is far below the 20 found in Hitman 2, but they are bigger on average. 
 Being an international assassin, Agent 47 ends up fulfilling contracts all across the globe (including 
 Britain, Siberia and China) , giving you plenty of level variety and giving him good frequent flyer 
 mileage on the sly. Convoluted and open-ended, repeat gaming will almost always uncover new methods 
 of progression, alternate routes and little secrets. The levels look fantastic too, especially 
 those that take place outdoors. Despite this variety, however, the gameplay often trips itself 
 up, leaving you waiting for an AI to complete a task or providing cut-scenes that refer to objectives 
 youve already completed.
  Overall its a great game for all the action lovers out there.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Agent 47's career in games did what many others did the oposite: it improved with its age. The 
 first Hitman was a fair game, with bad controls and annoyingly frustrating gameplay. Hitman 2, 
 released sometime after the first one, fixed a whole bunch of problems and brought new elements 
 to the table, making it a great game for any system.
  
  Now, sometime later, the bald assassin is back. After saving Vittorio and leaving Italy for good 
 at the end of the last game, 47 is playing hits for hire. As he gets injured in a mission and collapses 
 in his hideout, he begins to dream (or dread) about his past assigments, some of them rehashes 
 and different perspectives of some of the missions from the first game. This makes for a very interesting 
 experience, since the game now has the improvements and seeing them in familiar environments that 
 made you annoyed at the first game. Scenarios like Kwoloon and the insane asylum from Hitman are 
 some of the levels you'll be revisiting, with different objectives and situations. For instance, 
 in the asylum, you'll need to escape the place after the onslaugh you had at Hitman's last level.
 
  
  The game looks somewhat better than the previous game. Now 47 looks more human and a little older, 
 and he has more personality. The rag-doll effect is back and is as evil as ever. The game is scored 
 once again by Jasper Kidd, so expect to be amazed by some tracks played in the background.
  
  Control-wise, veterans of the previous game will need a while to get used to some of the changes, 
 such as the run toggle that is now on all of the time and the fact that you'll need to hold the 
 button to walk. Other than those, it's the same.
  
  As far as weapons go, this game has it all, from conventional rifles to inventive weapons from 
 crazed minds, like scapels, axes and even pillows, for silent kills. The difficulty of the game 
 is what makes it so fun. You'll be rewarded for playing it silent and you will be very satisfied 
 to finish this with only the hit kills to account for. This game makes you want to continue playing 
 after you finished it. I can't say it's the best in the series, since the second game improved 
 the series so much and this one plays it safe with the formula...
  
  Let Blood Money come!
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Well,
  
  I have to admit that I never came further then the second mission in the original Hitman Codename 
 47 back in 2000.
  But not because the game wasn't fun or absorbing, the reason was that although it gave the player 
 freedom in how a mission could be solved it also wasn't very obvious how things in this world of 
 hitman would work out.
  So it ended up in a try and error orgy. However the game was still enchaining.
  I mean, hey you're 
 an assassin. 
  But it was also the cool athmosphere with very stylish graphics and a well done soundtrack. I still 
 remember the music playing in the first mission, Hong Kong.
  But I don't know if I remember it because it was that good or because I played the level six hours 
 before I was able to finish it, just kidding. ;)
  
  Ok,
  
  what is so good or bad about Hitman Contracts?
  Well,
  
  first I have to say the athmosphere. 
 I like the darker setting of Contracts which a perfectly supported by the ambient soundtrack and 
 the moody levels.
  You ever heared Paul Anka's "Put your head on my shoulder" while you were standing in a room with 
 a... ah, well let's not spoil the creepy stuff.
  Just play the second mission and you will know what I'm talking about.
  
  Than we have the 
 basic gameplay mechanics which are mainly unaltered since the first Hitman game.
  You will have some freedom on how you solve the various objectives in a mission and sometimes there 
 are two or more ways to have the objectives completed.
  But like the prequels it mostly ends up in you beeing detected and beeing shot at.
  Thats because 
 the AI is not very accurate. Sometimes you manage to get past some guards with the right disguise 
 and sometimes you just notice that they shoot through two doors while they not even see you.
  But these "bugs" do not happen very often if you keep on doing your stuff stealthy.
  Another 
 reason for the try and error is that you have to figure things out on your own.
  So you just found a bottle of poison... hmm... where do I put it?
  But despite this try and error 
 it is very rewarding when you finally complete your objective.
  
  Further you have minor flaws like repeating speech samples from guards or bystanders and some animation 
 inconsistencies.
  But that shouldn't distract you much from the main show.
  
  If you consider playing this game, I have a very important advise for you.
  
  Play it in Expert 
 Mode!
  
  That is where the game has it's strenght.
  Unlike normal, you can't just shoot your way through the level. 
  You will have the chance of 
 shooting your way out of one or two hot spots but you won't take tons of damage. This will keep 
 you on the right track and shows you the game in a way it was expected to play.
  The normal setting gives you nearly unlimited health and guards won't detect you most of the time.
 
  Thus the game will end up in a medicore shooter and thereof we have enough out there.
  
  Ask yourself these simple questions.
  
  1. Do I like stealth games?
  2. Am I a patient person?
 
  3. Assasins are cool?
  
  If you have three yes here, than go out and buy the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac_daddy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Don't waste your time on something like 50 Cent Bulletproof or State of Emergency 2, you should 
 buy this game. It's the best Hitman game to date, and many more to come. I love it simply beacsue 
 you get to strangle the life out of your foes with a wire, snipe them, etc., and basicly be a bald, bad-ass 
 guy that kills for a living without getting caught. Don't take it as a role model, though, just 
 imagine....
  
  Anyway, his game has all the elements of a great game: Good story, Good graphics, great gunplay, 
 and awesome stealth kills. My favorite is the Snipe, simply because it's so quick and fast that 
 no one knows it was coming. I love it. I was often wondering if it was created by a former and/current 
 Hitman in real life. I also wonder if wannabe-Hitmen take notes from this game. It's not that hard 
 to think that.
  
  My closing quote is that Hitman is for stealth lovers. If you like Splinter Cell (like me) and 
 are not scared of the dark (like me) then buy it. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  Hitman is a video game franchise available on most modern formats. It revolves around a man known 
 as Codename 47 (usually simply referred to as 47) , a genetically engineered assassin for hire, 
 whose skills place him in high demand for jobs. The games contain a considerable amount of violence 
 and are rated Mature (17+) by the Entertainment Software Rating Board.
  
  The games were developed by Danish developer IO Interactive, now a division of Eidos Interactive. 
 Three games have been released in the series: Hitman: Codename 47 (2000) , Hitman 2: Silent Assassin 
 (2002) , and Hitman: Contracts (2004) . A fourth installment, titled Hitman: Blood Money, has been 
 announced for an early 2006 release. A film, starring Vin Diesel as the lead character, is set 
 to release in 2007. See Hitman (2007 film) for more details.
  
  The games have been noted for their impressive musical scores by Jesper Kyd.
  Basic gameplay
 
  Hitman presents players with choices in carrying out the game's missions. Players can perform 
 precise assassinations or be incredibly brutal in their own approach to achieving mission goals; 
 however, the game rewards the more subtle approach by giving special weapon rewards when players 
 achieve the Silent Assassin rank (usually achievable by eliminating only the mission's target, 
 and without raising the alarm doing so) .
  
  The gameplay revolves heavily around disguises, which the player uses to fool enemies and gain 
 access to restricted areas. The focus of the Hitman series is not hiding in the shadows from the 
 enemy, but rather blending in amongst them (although sneaking behind guards and avoiding patrols 
 becomes more prevalent in the gameplay of later games) .
  
  The player's character, Agent 47, is not particularly maneuverable; he cannot jump at all, let 
 alone scale walls or mantle up ledges (there are a couple of pre-scripted places where he can jump 
 from one balcony to another, but these are rare) . This generally limits the player to a single 
 plane of movement, although he is often presented the opportunity to move to higher or lower areas 
 through the use of ladders, stairs, elevators, or hills.
  
  A major feature in the game is the "alert" meter, detailing how much attention the player is receiving 
 from the public or guards and is dependent on many things. For example, Walking around in a guard's 
 uniform with the correct corresponding gun won't gather much notice, whereas running around in 
 a waiter's uniform in a restricted area while carrying a giant rifle instead of an appetizer tray 
 will generally result in death.
  
  In terms of action, the Hitman series runs a middle ground between shooters and stealth games. 
 Unlike most stealth game protagonists, 47 can survive considerable damage before dying. Combined 
 with the game's impressive arsenal, this allows for some high-action firefights. At the same time, 
 players are unable to heal 47's health in the middle of a level, which tends to encourage the player 
 to avoid as much damage as possible especially in later levels, where enemies begin carrying high-powered 
 weapons such as shotguns or sniper rifles that can kill 47 in one or two hits. In fact, many levels 
 are possible to complete without firing a single shot; this style of gameplay looks set to become 
 more prevalent in the new Hitman game, Blood Money.
  
  storyline
  
  Published in 2004.
  
  The hunter has become the hunted, as 47 is seriously wounded by one of 
 his own targets, who seemed to have been expecting him. Bleeding to death and taking refuge in 
 a hotel room somewhere in Paris, France, 47 drifts in and out of consciousness as an army of heavily 
 armed French SWAT units converge around the apartment complex.
  
  Hitman: Contracts' story centers around 47's flashbacks to earlier assignments. Many of the game's 
 missions are re-imaginings of previous ones in the series. Almost all of the major missions from 
 Hitman: Codename 47 have been re-made and included in Contracts; the exceptions being the Colombia 
 levels, which were scheduled to be included but were dropped, and the final two levels (the first 
 level of Contracts begins with the conclusion of the first game and the escape from the asylum 
 in Romania where 47 was created) .
  
  The "suspicion" meter has been improved and is less twitchy and unpredictable than it used to be. 
 Enemies generally will not see through a disguise, unless 47 stands right next to them for several 
 seconds or enters a restricted area. They will also no longer open fire for little things, such 
 as running or brushing past them. The graphics have also been marginally improved, with the addition 
 of reflective surfaces and new shading techniques.
  
  The game is darker than the previous two entries, literally and figuratively. Literally speaking, 
 all of the levels either take place at dusk, nighttime, or during inclimate weather. No level features 
 sunshine, or even just slightly overcast skies. The game's interiors are either poorly lit, take 
 place in near blackness, or feature eerie, almost supernatural lighting ranging from green-hued 
 fluorescent bulbs to candles. Several fans and reviewers have commented this effect is most likely 
 due to how 47 has recalled them; as he is lying bleeding to death, these memories and thoughts 
 are unlikely to be completely accurate, giving the game a nightmarish tinge in places. Jesper Kyd's 
 fantastic composition also reflects this change of tone and is truely fascinating. Silent Assassin 
 had an orchestral and epic score which created an heroic atmosphere, but the score of Contracts 
 reflects the game's twisted and sinister mood perfectly through dark electronica tracks that could 
 fit in a horror movie. Many fans consider Contracts' music the best of the series.
  
  Several levels include disturbing imagery beyond what has been seen in the series' previous entries. 
 The best example would be the second level called "The Meat King's Party", an S&M party taking 
 place in a slaughterhouse. One scene in particular features the mutilated corpse of a teenage girl 
 hanging upside down from a ceiling, wrapped in plastic; beneath her, the girl's obsessed kidnapper 
 has created a shrine to her, centered around a large photo of the girl, on which he has written 
 the word **** in her blood. A record player nearby plays Paul Anka's Put your head on my shoulder, 
 while the girl's killer, an obese, semi-nude man in a bloody apron, cackles in what sounds like 
 a clip from Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon. This same level features disturbing depiction of 
 strong perverse and morbid sexual behaviors between people wearing leather masks and bondage outfits, 
 and mating next to gory animal corpses and carcasses. In another level, the Thermal Bath Hotel, 
 the player can stumble across a cordoned off police crime scene, which features a bathtub filled 
 with blood and a mutilated corpse in the next room. By entering the adjoining wing of the building, 
 the player can actually see the murdered man's ghost drifting around the halls and reflected in 
 bathroom mirrors.
  
  All this adult material makes Contracts the darkest and most violent Hitman to date.
  
  Major 
 or re-occurring characters
  Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.
  47 
  A genetically engineered assassin created from the recombinant DNA of five of the world's most 
 dangerous criminal masterminds. A tall, blue-eyed, bald, no-nonsense individual, who prefers a 
 well-tailored suit and tie and who has a barcode stamped to the back of his head. Tailored from 
 conception to be a ruthless killing machine, 47's strength, speed, and stamina are significantly 
 above the human norm, and he possesses a single-minded, cunning intellect. 
  Raised in the sterile environment of the laboratory and trained in the fine arts of infiltration 
 and execution, 47 gravitated towards the profession of Hitman upon his release into the real world, 
 joining and eventually becoming the top assassin in the International Contract Agency. Yet, in 
 spite of his creator's best efforts, 47 still possesses a fierce individuality and the spark of 
 a conscience, a fact which greatly vexes his creator. 
  Although he's usually cold and to the point in his dealings with others, 47 can at times be quite 
 introspective, especially when he's contemplating his own existence. He has no qualms and will 
 kill anyone for money (from corrupt crime lords, to unfortunate opera singers, to a former Governor 
 of Massachusetts) , and shows no mercy whatsoever towards said targets, although 47 does take a 
 certain professional pride in not creating any collateral damage. He has demonstrated a degree 
 of mercy towards those people not on his kill list (for example, in Hitman: Contracts, 47 knocks 
 out a butcher with the blunt end of a meat hook, rather than cutting out his throat with the sharp 
 tip) . 
  47 is brilliantly voiced by David Bateson. 
  Diana 
  47's controller at the Agency. Diana gives 47 his assignments, briefs him on his missions, and 
 occasionally serves as his guide over the radio. 47 has never actually seen Diana face-to-face, 
 and is familiar only with her voice. She appears to have a serious, business-like demeanor, as 
 well as an American idea of what an English accent is like (whether this is a lacking in the area 
 of voice acting or an intentional reflection on the character is unknown) . Diana was seated behind 
 47 on a plane giving him a briefing at the end of Hitman Contracts. She can be considered an unseen 
 character. 
  Dr. Ort-Meyer 
  47's creator and the ultimate villain of Hitman: Codename 47. A brilliant and dangerous individual. 
 Expelled from the scientific community for his radical theories on genetic manipulation, Ort-Meyer 
 has spent almost half a century combining and manipulating DNA in an effort to create an army of 
 perfect super-soldiers. He was responsible for raising and indoctrinating 47 at his asylum, where 
 47 was kept as a virtual prisoner for most of his life. Ort-Meyer eventually engineered 47's "escape" 
 from the asylum in order to test his performance in the real world. The consummate megalomaniac, 
 Ort-Meyer used his powerful hold over the Agency to manipulate 47 into killing the other 4 masterminds 
 behind the Hitman Project, so that Ort-Meyer could have the fruits of his labor all to himself. 
 Ort-Meyer then attempted to have 47 himself eliminated, having perfected "Mr. 48", an improved, 
 mindlessly loyal series of clones. Ort-Meyer underestimated 47's abilities, and in the final showdown, 
 47 eliminated the Mr. 48s and Ort-Meyer himself. 
  Agent Smith 
  A fairly inept American secret agent with ties to the CIA and the Agency. He has an unfortunate 
 tendency to be captured and tortured by the very people he's assigned to spy on. As a result, the 
 Agency has sent 47 to rescue him on a number of occasions. His torture experiences have caused 
 him to take up drinking on the job, making him even more ineffective. Smith is about as close to 
 a comic relief character as the Hitman series has. 
  Like 47, Agent Smith dons a variety of disguises, but most often he's seen beaten and stripped 
 down to his American Flag boxer shorts. He seems to regard 47 as a friend, no doubt because 47 
 has rescued him so many times. Of course, the feeling is not mutual. 47 sees Smith as an ineffective 
 hindrance. 
  Mei-Ling 
  A young woman from the Chinese mainland, abducted and recruited into the brothel of Hong Kong crimelord 
 Lee Hong. 47 rescues her in exchange for information about her employer in preparation for assassinating 
 him. After escaping from Lee Hong, Mei-Ling somehow ends up hooking up with Hayamoto, yet another 
 Asian crime lord, and 47 ends up rescuing her again (much to his consternation) . 
  Mei-Ling is apparently the only woman 47 has ever kissed, an experience 47 did not seem to enjoy 
 that much, since 47's conditioning apparently includes a strong lack of interest in sexuality in 
 general (in the original Hitman, 47 reacted to that kiss with significant revulsion. In the remake 
 Hitman: Contracts, 47's reaction has been changed to one of detached bemusement) . She was known 
 as Lei Ling in Hitman: Codename 47; the reason for the this change remains unclear. 
  Sergei Zavorotko 
  The central villain of Hitman 2: Silent Assassin. An influential Russian crime 
 lord and arms dealer specializing in the transport of chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons 
 (NBC weapons) . Sergei is the employer and older brother of Boris, one of 47's five "fathers", although 
 he is much more powerful than Boris ever was. 
  Sergei brought 47 out of retirement by arranging for the kidnapping of 47's friend Father Vittorio, 
 then anonymously arranged through the Agency for 47 to perform a series of hits on his business 
 partners. The hits were merely a diversion, however, and in reality Sergei was using 47 to assemble 
 the parts of a Nuclear Missile System capable of penetrating the American Missile Shield, a system 
 Sergei planned to sell to a wealthy Sikh doomsday cult for a considerable sum of money. 
  Like 47, Sergei has incredible strength and durability, capable of smashing through wooden walls 
 and surviving a few dozen bullets to the chest. He's no superhuman, though, and dies after a single 
 headshot or 34 shotgun blasts. He's very temperamental and often peppers his speech with Russian 
 profanities. He also always carries around a large SPAS-12 shotgun. 
  Mystery Man 
  A mysterious man in a black suit. First seen in Hitman 2: Silent Assassin as an advisor to Sergei, 
 he is the one who brings 47 to the attention of Sergei. Ultimately, he convinces Sergei to put 
 out a hit on 47, leading to 47 learning about and killing Sergei. A couple of cutscenes towards 
 the end of the game suggest he is really manipulating Sergei for a higher power. He may be related 
 to the "Rival Agency" in Hitman: Blood Money. 
  The Albino 
  47's nemesis in Hitman Blood Money. Mark Pachezzi III aka The Albino is an expert assassin and 
 a master of disguises who's able to blend in the background lke a chameleon to carry out subversive 
 operations
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZeb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Wow, I must say I'm totally sold on the Hitman series! Ever since Codename 47 came out a good while 
 back I've never played games with so much replay value! And that goes for all the titles!
  
  The hitman, or codename 47, is born in a test-tube experiment performed by a crazy terrorist 
 doctor that you finally kill in the first game after he played you like a pawn in his own, sick 
 game.
  
  Then in the sequel, silent assassin, he's on his own, seeking forgiveness from god for all the 
 nasty business he was up to in the prequel. But (naturally) he's forced back into doing what he 
 does best, KILLING!
  
  Now, in Contracts, 47 has been seriously wounded after being lured into a trap. So what happens? 
 He passes out! And he recalls his previous 'contracts' as he lies in a pool of his own blood. These 
 memories are where YOU come in and play them!
  
  The first dream that comes to his mind, is right at the end of the first game, as he snaps the 
 neck of his "father". The crazy doctor that created him!
  And from there it's all a mix of NEW and REMAKE style missions!
  
  The NEW missions are SUPER 
 in my oppinion! They are tricky, have great variety and have many options as to how you want to 
 terminate your targets. Both the "Meatking" and "Mansion" missions are MASTERPIECES in level design!
 
  
  As for the REMAKES they are from some of the best levels in the previous games! Sure, I too thought 
 it was kind of a cheap trick. But IO have tweaked them just enough to make it interesting again. 
 And it's not like you'll remember the exact layout of these levels anyway. Codename 47 came out 
 around 2K so if you DO... you're good.
  
  Graphics and sound have always been great in these games and this one is no exception! Great atmosphere! 
 You're THERE!
  
  Controls may be weird for newcomers but once you get used to them, they work splendid! 
  
  
 Now I'll get to WHY I love these games. The planning! The replay!
  The game rates you by how well you performed yourhit ". 
  A professional hitman is one who 
 is unseen, unheard and leaves no trace! He just leaves dead bodies! And only those bodies his employer 
 told him to target. And if you can do that, then you deserve the title of "Silent Assassin"! The 
 highest ranking. 
  And THAT'S what is so fun! First time you play a mission you may be getting "Butcher" or "Psycho" 
 rating because everthing goes to hell. 
  Then you think, WAIT A MINUTE! I'M NO PSYCHO! THEY GOT THIS ALL WRONG! You're a Silent Assassin, 
 so go back and prove it!
  
  It's when you go back that you start seeing new ways of completing your contract and you get rewarded 
 with cool cutscenes. And a SS rating will always unlock an exclusive new weapon that can be used 
 whenever you replay a level!
  
  Only bad thing I have to say for Contracts is that you dont get to choose your close-combat weapon 
 when you replay a level. That's what the professional will use most frequently anyway, so that's 
 stupid. Oh yeah, and the voice-acting. Please find someone to make 47 sounding as stone-cold as 
 he looks, please IO? 
  
  And I also must say, HITMAN is not for everyone. Some love it (like me) others hate it. People 
 who just like to shoot everyone they see will not be very thrilled with hitman. There ARE better 
 shooters out there. 
  But hitman are for those of us who are just aching to figure out how to make THE PERFECT MURDER! 
 ( Hey, dont look at me like that... )
  
  I'm eagerly awaiting the next episode in the legend of 47! So I can get back at the bastard who 
 set him up. They're messing with the wrong dude!
  
  GO HITMAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdadi2000
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  I've been expecting this game to follow the line that the other two have but my hopes was in vain. 
 After I played Hitman Codename 47 I was happy that I did get the game: the story was entertaining 
 and gameplay nice. Hitman 2 Silent Assassin was a step forward (mabe more) . The storyline was amazing 
 and I remember that I was into the game so much that when I finish it seemed like I watched a movie. 
 I was already familiarized with the gameplay so it was easy to pick-up where I left.
  As for this disappointment called Hitman Contracts I have little to say because I really try to 
 forget it. The part from the beginning said it all. What is the word "Hitman" to you? To me is 
 an killer who is stealthy and very accurate. So what was he doing blasting he's way out of that 
 hospital like he was a green beret or if you like a "serious sam" in the city.
  When you have great expectation and the game fails those you think that Hitman 2 Silent Assassin 
 was the best there was, is and will be from the Hitman series. Hope I'm wrong and hope you'll understand 
 what I wrote here :D Sorry for my english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Hitman: contract its good game but jost good . You are agent. You dont have name you dont have friend 
 you dont have anather chloses. You have only Codename: 47 and your wear black suit . In Hong Kong 
 you are popular but not in Russa or anather country . So you start play in psichic center you have 
 escape from were but be carefull policeman are loking you. Second is a meat king mission its best 
 mission so I dont gona tolk about all mission so lets tolk about. Grapthics is good you the :47 
 is look so really . Sound I dont know its good but music suck why need music make thif compter 
 why they dont use gitara . Value is meddium not good not bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  After 2 great games in the series comes another installment of the highly addictive Hitman Series. And 
 does this game prove to be a worthy competitor to Splinter cell series??
  You bet it does.
  The game is one of the best stealth games ever made.
  this game expands the level of gameplay 
 compared to its predessors.
  This gametakes you through 12 tense missions. You r the best assasin in the world. This game is a 
 sequel to silent assasin and provides with an excellent story line.
  The graphics r much more enhanced and the sound is awesome.
  After completing every mission you 
 r given certain rating which tells you how well you made your plan work.
  However the game feels pretty short and leaves you hungry for more.
  For all the fans of the 
 Stealth based genre this is a must buy.
  LONG LIVE THE BALD KILLERS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  As a shooter (both first-person and third-person perspectives are available) , Hitman: Contracts 
 can be satisfying. There's a huge variety of authentic weapons to be found and used, and killed 
 foes lie in vivid red pools of blood. But the action just isn't particularly good by today's standards, 
 because the enemy artificial intelligence is, frankly, terrible. Enemies will try to overpower 
 you through sheer numbers, but they won't easily succeed, at least on the normal difficulty setting. 
 You can position yourself at a choke point -- say, behind a door -- to just keep spraying automatic 
 fire in the general vicinity of your enemies' heads. A very forgiving auto-aim system will make 
 most of your shots hit home, from short- or long-range, and as a result, the bodies will quickly 
 pile high as more and more fools rush to their deaths until none are left. Then you're free to 
 casually complete your mission, unopposed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimbokasteniv
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  To start off, if you have played Hitman: Codename 47, then you are going to recognize several levels 
 from this game, but these levels have been recreated quite well.
  
  This is not your basic fps, although you can treat it as such, but you will find this game much 
 more interesting if you play stealthily.
  
  Playing stealthily is basically what this game is all about.
  Go in complete your objectives, 
 get out, and no one knows what just happened. 
  To do that is far from easy, but is very satisfying. A great feature of the game is the interactive 
 music, which responds according to what is happening.
  If you just did something very sneaky, one song plays, If you just got caught red handed, another 
 songs plays. 
  The music and the visuals really create quite the theme of slaughter and death, and since you are 
 a perfect killing machine, it works out very nice.
  
  There is no multiplayer, so you would think the game would have no replay value when it is finished. 
 But this is not true, because there must be 20 ways to do each mission, and ofcourse if you want 
 to unlock all the weapons you will need to run through this game more then once.
  There can be a couple of AI glitches here and there, and sometimes it is very difficult to know 
 what the heck you are supposed to be doing.
  But the games interesting story, and diverse levels, make up for those flaws.
  
  Probably one 
 of the hardest things to get your head around in this games is that this game trys to be like real 
 life, and it will catch things that you wouldn't normally expect a game to even care about.
  For instance, running for no good reason, is a great way to have every person in the game suspicious 
 of you. So stay cool.
  
  If you liked the previous Hitman games, then you will definitely like this one, but if you are 
 looking for a good fps, this isn't going to work to well for you seeing as this is primarly third-person, 
 and very methodic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokobo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  This was a much awaited sequel in my books after thoroughly enjoying silent assassin. 
  
  The Overall theme of the game remains pretty much the same. You are hired to kill people. The missions 
 in this i didnt feel were quite as good as the second game but were still fun. There wasnt a huge 
 improvement on graphics nor was there much of that in gameplay. 
  
  I think one of the best things about the second game was that you had your own little hideout at 
 the church, yet you dont have this here. One ofthe features i like about the game is the first 
 person view option, although it clearly needed to have some work done. Weapons remained fairly 
 religious to the other games, there was nothing too new or exciting.
  
  I hope bloodmoney surpasses this game by a longshot ith a more immersive storyline and a newer 
 style of gameplay.
  
  if you liked the other games then its definately worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litnek
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  If i bought hitman: silent assassin, i was a little bit disappointed, because the levels were kinda 
 boring for me. but the levels of hitman: contracts were much more interesting than in SA. There 
 are only 12 missions in the game, but all of them except the hong kong missions are in diferent 
 places so for me it doesn't really mater. It would be better if there would be more missions but 
 the missions they have, have a great replay value. Harder difficult levels make the replay value 
 even bigger. Some of the levels are from hitman: codename 47, but it's cool to play the old missions 
 and it brings back memories, but the ones who own hitman 1 may not think that. The gameplay has 
 gotten better than it was in SA. The Ai is better than it has ever been in the hitman series. But 
 the strongest point of the game for me is the graphics and the sound. Jesper Kyd has done great 
 work with the music. I quite didn't like it in SA. The game is much tougher and hitman is even 
 more cooler character than before. For me 47 is the most coolest character in all the games with 
 a red tie, and leather gloves and the way he's holding his silverballers... . I recomend it to 
 everyone who have played SA or codename 47and liked it, because this game is even better than the 
 last ones. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klint555
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:05 am PT
Review:  I like every aspect of the game especially when I try killing someone slowly. I also like the graphics, 
 it's really smooth and clear. I like the character "47" because he's so cool and he kills smoothly 
 without making any mess. I also like how he drags the dead bodies and taking their clothes off 
 and putting them on, I hope it works for the girls too, hehe. LOL. I really got nothing more to 
 say about this game, i'm speechless. All I can say is this game ROCKS!
  I like every aspect of the game especially when I try killing someone slowly. I also like the graphics, 
 it's really smooth and clear. I like the character "47" because he's so cool and he kills smoothly 
 without making any mess. I also like how he drags the dead bodies and taking their clothes off 
 and putting them on, I hope it works for the girls too, hehe. LOL. I really got nothing more to 
 say about this game, i'm speechless. All I can say is this game ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntonioMontello
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Contracts is clearly one of the greatest games ever invented or even thought of! The things 
 you can do in this game are intense. You play the role of Agent 47, a super clone assassin. 47 
 works for a hit contracting agency that finds you targets to assassinate. All of these targets 
 have some sort of connection to the criminal underworld. These are high paying targets; you must 
 do what you can to eliminate them quickly and with great precision. There are numerous ways of 
 completing a 'hit'. You can poison your targets food to kill them without any alarm. You can be 
 hundreds of yards away with a silenced sniper and assassinate him silently but lethally. But dont 
 think there is only one man to whack. Dont forget about their security guards! These dedicated 
 guards can be eliminated in many ways. You can eliminate them silently with fiber wire, by choking 
 them, or you can use an anesthetic to knock them out for a little while. Then you can drag their 
 bodies to hide them from any other guards suspicion. Is there a guard dress code? It wouldnt 
 hurt to steal a guards clothing to sneak in the building without causing panic! Just borrow a 
 guards uniform and you can walk around the current area without alerting the enemy to your presence. 
 What good is a Hitman without a variety of weapons? This game, Hitman: Contracts, has a massive 
 variety of weapons! From snipers, to silver balers, to shotguns, to any other sorts of weapons 
 and assassin would get his hands on. The story of this game is so deep and passionate; it will 
 pull you right into the game! I suggest this game to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kau83
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  It has style but it losts touch........................
  
  Hitman, the silent assasin get little boring here. not that difficult to play. with some of the 
 borest level i have ever seen. still the fans wont deny the goodness... no new nice weapons. so 
 style added simply continuation of the previous part. too short gameplay. can finish it off in 
 one sitting..
  
  AI is not improved, all missions can be handled violently.... so I dont appreciate it because its 
 not hitman style...
  
  Sound is not good... the some music makes u histeric.... still worth going for rent.. :)
  
 
  still fans can go for it once 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 10, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The graphics hasn't improved much since Hitman 2, but they still look pretty good overall. The 
 whole game looks good, but there are some effects that look awesome. There are constantly a filter 
 on the screen which makes the game much more moody. 
  
  The sounds has improved. I was a bit dissapointed when IO desided to use the same old sound effects 
 that they used in Hitman 1 in Hitman 2. But IO has now found some new more realistic bullet sounds 
 and it's perfect. The music is still excellent. The orcestrated music from Hitman 2 has now been 
 replaced fith moody silent tunes that fits the game perfectly. 
  
  The gameplay in the Hitman games has allways been great. Hitman 3 features some of the best levels 
 in 47's history, but it also features some old ones from the first game. This is pretty good, and 
 also pretty bad because there aren't that many missions in Contract and allmost the half of them 
 is from Hitman 1, and that's a bit boring for the ones who's completed it many times. There are 
 only 12 missions and that's a bit few. They don't take that long time, and I would strongly recommend 
 to use expert difficulty, cause normal is all to simple. The game is great, but there could have 
 been a couple of more missions, and should have been a bit more difficult. 
  
  + 
  Good graphics with a cool filter. Jesper Kyd's music is excellent. The sound effects are new and 
 improved. Some missions are breathtaking. 
  
  - 
  To many old missions from the first Hitman game. The difficulty is to low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigothemanny
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 4, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  I had very high expectations for this game and it delivers 75% of what I was expecting. The graphics 
 are great, but when you enter 1st person mode they just look ugly. Second the computer controlled 
 enemies are unpredictable, they just open fire on you for no absolute reason which leads to major 
 frustration. Though the voice acting is still stupendous, the music sounds like it's out of a cheesy 
 60's spy film. One thing the series is still good at is allowing the player to kill the target 
 in numerous ways, either by poison, a bomb, the old sniper rifle, going in John Woo style, the 
 list goes on. Finally the controls have been redone and finally their is a training mission.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracogen
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 29, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  
  I found this game to be a pale shadow of the previous two Hitman games.
  
  My main complaint is the game's draconian linearity. The game claims that there are many ways to 
 accomplish your objectives, but in truth your options are quite limited. You are consistently penalized 
 for attempting to stray off the game's "golden path" and trying to do something your own way. The 
 game wants you to accomplish every goal in one of a few very specific ways -- and more often than 
 not, just one way -- and keeps making you jump through hoops until you comply. Since on the harder 
 difficulty levels your saves extremely limited, this makes the game an exercise in tedium.
  
  In the end, I felt like this was not so much a game as it was an exercise in deducing whatever 
 the developers decided was the so-called "correct" set of actions to follow.
  
  Maybe this is fun for some, but I hated it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UF_Matt
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 15, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Test System
  ----------------
  PIV 2.4@3.12ghz
  ASUS P4P800 MB
  XFX 6600GT 128mb
  1gig PC3200 RAM
  WinXP Pro
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  --------------------
  Fans of Hitman 2 will 
 find that little has changed. The gameplay is essentially identical to that of its predecessor. 
 The difference this time around is that instead of a linear story, the game is comprised of a collection 
 of "old assignments." This results in a series of diverse level designs.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  --------------------
  The noticable addition to the graphics engine is the advent 
 of a post filter. This results in improved visual quality, but comes at the cost of system performance. 
 You will need at least a 9800pro to run the game well using this setting. Overall the graphics 
 are decent, but are limited due to the game's main target: the console market.
  
  Sound 7/10
  ----------------
  While the weapon and weather sounds are acceptable, the voice 
 acting detracts from the sound quality. The dialogue is comical and the same voices are clearly 
 used for several characters.
  
  Value 6/10
  ---------------
  The fact that this title offers "more of the same" from Hitman 2, I cannot justify anything higher 
 than a 6. Perhaps with a true overhaul of the engine this would have gotten a higher rating. Eidos 
 should have done more to make this game worth the price of a true stand-alone title. Although enjoyable, 
 look for this game at $20 or less.
  
  Tilt 8/10
  ------------
  I found Hitman 2 to be very enjoyable. The gameplay was much improved from the original. Hitman: Contracts 
 follows in the vein of Hitman 2. Enjoyable for fans of the series, my personal tilt is an 8/10 
 due to the variety of level designs.
  
  Overall 7.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 8, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Contracts is a schizophrenic game because it's both satisfying and maddening. This is definitely 
 a game in which success only comes through repeated trial and error. I usually have no patience 
 for this model of game design, but in this case I stuck it out because of Hitman's graphically 
 adult themes, deadly serious mood and rewarding sense of payoff at the end of each mission.
  
  The game's problems, though, sometimes made me question my commitment to finishing this title. 
 It would be a relatively easy experience if you gun down anyone who stands in your way, but this 
 approach isn't necessarily fun, because Hitman obviously wasn't developed to be a fast-paced, third- 
 or first-person shooter. Sneakiness is what this game is all about, but sometimes subterfuge can 
 be much too difficult due to brittle, scripted AI and fiddly mission structure.
  
  There were too many instances when my suspension of disbelief was ruined because silly things went 
 inexplicably wrong. For example, I could disguise the Hitman, but the "chance" he would be recognized 
 was just a mechanical conceit. For example, in one mission set on an old English estate, the other 
 guards shot me on sight, even though I was dressed like another guard. This isn't a stealth game 
 like Thief or Splinter Cell, in which you can skulk your way in shadows to the end. So being shot 
 on sight with nowhere to hide is brutally unfair. All I can say is, thank God for cheat codes, 
 game guides and walkthroughs.
  
  Nevertheless, there is a lot to like about Hitman: Contracts. The main character is compelling, 
 and not just another cookie-cutter action "hero." The voice acting and cutscenes are superb. The 
 variety of weapons, different locations, striking music and sound, wonderful weather and lighting 
 effects (despite the age of the Hitman game engine) , realistic textures and architecture, mature 
 and sexy content all combine to make Hitman: Contracts a game like no other (except perhaps Hitman 
 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 21, 2004 4:58 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The best aspect is somewhat unique and always cool to do: changing costumes. The open-ended 
 missions are very hot since you do it youre way. The solutions are amazing. The number of weapons 
 you can handle is pretty surprising. From butcher knives to SMG, you'll always find it cool to 
 use new weapons. Something bad is that some maps are recycled from the first. Trying to do each 
 mission at the silent assassin rating can be somewhat frustrating because of the bad save-system.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are really consolish and not too beautiful compared to today's standards. 
 After playing Far Cry, it's pretty different. It is playable and shows some beautiful things but 
 don't expect too much. Even the framerates aren't too great.
  
  SOUND : The voice-acting is pretty bad. I really don't like Hitman's voice. The musics can be really 
 cool to the theme but some are absolutely atrocious. The weapons sound are good.
  
  VALUE: This point can be arguable. I depends on what you want to achieve. But it is not more than 
 15 hours. Playing through a second time doing something else is a good idea.. but after that.. sell 
 the game while it has some value.
  
  TILT: Havent noticed any bugs. Medium framerates.
  
  --------  HIGHS: :) Open-Ended Mission
  :) Varied Weapons
  :) Level Design
  -------- 
  LOWS: : ( Bad Graphics
  : ( Certain musics are atrocious
  : ( You won't have the taste to beat the game a 2nd time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazela
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 16, 2004 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Contracts is a good game. Only good.
  The not-so-much improved graphic engine, the lack of background story, the small number of levels 
 and the fact that it looks like an expansion pack for Hitman 2 undermine the game to a level that 
 47 didn't deserve to see.
  
  More than the half of the levels are remakes from the first game. They look nice, that's true, 
 but... Wouldn't it be better to add new ideas? Players who played the first game will be very disappointed 
 with all this.
  
  Contracts brings an all-new mood for the Hitman series: it's always night and , when snow isn't 
 falling, the rain clouds your sight. And the mood is not only about that. The game is a lot more 
 violent than its predecessors, from 47's moves to the scenery. That made the game more insteresting, 
 but the continuous rain is something that bothers some people, and that includes me. I like variety. 
 That made hitman 2 awesome.
  
  The music from the game is very good, but it's not the best I've seen in the past years. Jesper 
 Kyd did a good job, but he looked a lot more inspired while making Hitman 2's soundtrack. The weapons 
 sound believable and enemy taunts are pretty nice (but, sometimes, repetitive) .
  
  The gameplay is very adequate, since it uses the ol' WASD+mouse control scheme.
  
  Let's see 
 what Blood Money brings to us. Perhaps Eidos listens to 47's fans and make something REALLY outstanding. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 2:18 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game but even if it has so many features, you get really fast bored.
  Hitman 3 is the continuation of Hitman 2. You play as Codename 47 and ... I don't get the storyline, 
 maybe I'll need to learn some English. You have a fiber wire witch you can use to strangle people. 
 Of course you have a few kind of goggles, it's a stealth game. For the rest you have lots of weapons 
 (with great 3D) and many items. The items are used to make your objectives a bit easier. Too find 
 these items you can use your very handy map.
  In short, ... the gameplay is detailed but bores fast.
  The movies between the gameplay are awesome.
 
  
  That's why I gave it 7.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wagner2002
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 5, 2004 7:37 pm PT
Review:  A truly good game, that makes an excellent job out of putting you inside the skin of a mean, cold, 
 mercyless and silent killer, one that does the stuff he's been paid for no matter what the collateral 
 damage is. 
  
  The level design is well done, posing several interesting and challenging missions, especially 
 if you try to accomplish your goals in a stealthy way, keeping the bodycount down. Missions usually 
 involve sneaking in, dispatching a few unlucky subjects and sometimes saving someone else's skin, 
 and getting out alive. The difference between who you terminate and who you save is simply a matter 
 of who's on what clause of your contract - you're doing this for money, no doubt about it.
  
  Hitman 2 has great graphics, which effectively contribute to increase the gameplay experience 
 and create the appropriate atmosphere that makes you feel lonely, dangerous and a bit nervous too 
 - after all, no matter how good you are in doing your job, you can still be caught and pinned down 
 yourself. You can actually feel your heart beat harder and find yourself holding your breath while 
 you squeeze tight against a shadowy corner trying to go unnoticed to a nearby guard.
  
  A nice touch to the game is that you can accomplish your goals in so many different ways. You can 
 sneak in unnoticed and finish your victim off with a silenced pistol, simply storm in guns-a-blazing 
 (this is sometimes unadvised due to the large number of enemies present in some levels) , disguise 
 yourself as a waiter and take a poisoned drink to your target, drop a gasoline bomb through the 
 chimney to blow the whole room to bits or simply snipe your victim from a safe distance.
  
  There's an in-game map that I find a bit too helpfull. At any time you can summon this highly detailed 
 map that shows not only every corner of your level, but also every person in it - that includes 
 armed guards, innocent bystanders, your targets and other points of importance. So, before entering 
 a room, you will know by looking at the map if there's anyone inside waiting to stop you on your 
 tracks. This is quite a spoiler, as it deprives you of much of the game's surprise elements. They 
 could just as well have made all the walls transparent.
  
  Overall, this is a game I enjoyed playing, and if there's another Hitman due sometime in the future, 
 I'll once more be commanding this bald-headed guy in black suit as he spreads terror in his fantasy 
 virtual world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tashpool
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 13, 2004 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Third time is the charm. Three strikes and your out. Three seems to be a very powerful number to 
 many people, including Io Interactive who has released the latest and greatest Hitman game, Hitman: 
 Contracts. If you have played either of the two predecessors of the Hitman series you know how 
 this game can work out multi path levels and enjoyable stealth experiences to create a work of 
 art. After playing this version of the game though, if you accidentally start up Hitman 2, you 
 probably wont notice a difference in the game until about half an hour later. Hitman: Contracts 
 delivers a solid stealth action game with multiple paths per level that only slightly differs from 
 its last iteration.
  
  The game starts with Agent 47 stumbling into a dark and grimy hotel room, his shirt covered in 
 his own blood and his mind shifting in and out of dreams. Through some interesting cut scenes we 
 begin to see number 47 remembering past contract jobs; hence the game title. One of the first dreams 
 starts in a nice little blood party. You need to investigate the abduction of a girl and assassinate 
 the head honcho of a little party being thrown in a slaughter house. The atmosphere is quite nice 
 with butchers doing their job and guards and guests fitted out in bondage attire. Now theres two 
 obvious ways of getting a disguise and getting into the party, take out a butcher bringing in supplies 
 at a truck in the back, or time it just right and catch one of the party goers by surprise as he 
 relieves himself behind some crates. Either way, after a quick check for any weapons by the bouncer, 
 you find yourself either heading to the kitchen as a meat cutter, or to the party as an invited 
 guest. The game splits off into multiple ways of accomplishing a task throughout the many levels 
 and objectives.
  
  The bad part about all this action is that its been done already. In almost the exact same way 
 in a game called Hitman: Silent Assassin. Theres very little to differentiate the two tittles 
 in terms of graphics, sound, or gameplay. Each console holds it own when showcasing the quality 
 of the game, the Xbox being the best in terms of graphics due to its latter entry into the gamespace 
 compared to the PS2, but Sonys system is no slouch and does a good job of rendering our bald headed 
 agent and his world of death. Sound is done quite nicely and has an assortment of inspirational 
 mood setting rhythms. In the end, the best experience is of course done on a PC with an updated 
 video card and EAX 5.1 or higher sound setup. 
  
  Overall the game still has a nice touch to it, but it does come with its shortcomings. Theres 
 a lack of real story telling in the game, the cut scenes are nice, but theres no real story elements 
 as youre actually going through the levels. No big surprises or changes in the plot as you make 
 your way through. No conversations that you can overhear that really help you make a better decision 
 at infiltrating the premises or creating a mood of interest. No big decisions for you to make that 
 would alter the story of the game as you progress. Some of this is due to the fact that the game 
 is told in episodes as Agent 47 remembers stories from the past, but theres a lot of room to create 
 a monumental feeling of accomplishment if the game had chosen to do so. This is a big disappointment 
 since there is so much more you could do in the world laid out in front of you.
  
  Another problem is the lack of a real interface. Theres a meter to inform you of how well you 
 are at being concealed but its not used to its fullest. It merely fluctuates as you get closer 
 to an enemy which by then you will have noticed them stopping to look your way in the first place. 
 Rule of thumb is to just keep walking and you will usually due just fine if you can put some distance 
 between yourself and the suspicious guard. This reflects on the AI as well, doing a decent job 
 of controlling the NPCs around the game, but nothing exceptional to make you think there was a 
 real person behind those movements. The map is detailed enough to show a nice layout of all the 
 buildings and their innards, but takes up the whole screen when you wish to view it. The game also 
 does not pause as you view your map and you must be on your toes when you are looking for your 
 next destination. Being able to have buildings marked as a warehouse or storeroom before hand, 
 would have been very helpful. This, unfortunately, with an onscreen sizeable map, was not put into 
 the game and can make it a bit frustrating at times. 
  
  Frustration comes with this game on the very high difficulty. Extremely hard enemies with near 
 perfect aim and only a few shots to kill you make encounters a suicide. Most people would be better 
 off playing this game on the easy or normal setting where you can have a gunfight with multiple 
 enemies if you choose and multiple saves so you dont have to redo the entire level.
  
  Also, there is no multiplayer, which is a disappointment to me. Having a bodyguard versus assassin 
 might prove interesting or any other number of ideas could breathe a longer lasting appeal to this 
 game.
  
  In the end, this game feels much more like an expansion pack to Silent Assassin than a new chapter 
 in the life of Agent 47. This latest installment does have a more mature feel to it in terms of 
 story, half dressed women, and much more blood, but ultimately the new missions are just a small 
 update with minor improvements in the sound and AI. Theres really nothing new for the veterans 
 and newcomers would be better off spending less money on the last version to see what its all 
 about. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_critic
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2004 12:49 pm PT
Review:  now i am a veteran player of the great Hitman series which has been my favorite series for a while, 
 so i eagerly waited for Hitman: Contracts the 3rd game in the series well i got it and was plesantly 
 relieved to find it was a great game like the rest of them heres my review
  
  Gameplay: great if your a fan of series you'll like it even more bet it should appeal to the average 
 gamer with a decent capacity of violence handeling. Its a game where you can do the missions the 
 way you want stealth or violent, slow or fast, are you going to only kill your target or everyone 
 else with him there are different ways of doing the missions some controls you might have to get 
 used to but its great and also the best "Ragdoll" physics i've seen yet
  
  Graphics: beautiful use of Nvida and ATI video cards great bump mapping and animations not to metion 
 the great character models
  
  Sound: very good sound effects and soundtrack and the main character speaking lines are great as 
 well as the dialouge even to the point where foreigners aren't the best at speaking english and 
 using their native language
  
  Value: good game for the price, replay value can be great
  
  Final word: a great game get if you like the series and also if you like stealth/action games 
 in general 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackliealm
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 9, 2004 9:35 am PT
Review:  Once again, the Hitman series has a great idea that they failed to match with gameplay elements. 
 The entire overhaul they were trying to achieve with the film noir type of cutscenes was very interesting 
 to me when I first took notice of the game. However, this appealing backdrop soon became much less 
 appreciated after I began to play through the first few levels. the first thing that caught my 
 eye was, of course, the in-game visuals. These graphics struck me as sub-par at best. There were 
 few improvements made since Hitman 2 in this area. Another major flaw comes in the form of AI. 
 The Ai in the game pathetic. Maybe Gods and Generals did a little worse, but as far a mainstream 
 gaming goes this should not be allowed, and I did not play through this game on normal either. 
 I love how guards just let you walk into the Meat King's room as long as you dont come up the stairs. 
 I also find it interesting that you can pick up a poker from the fireplace to beat the crap out 
 of the first guy in the russian level, and nobody notices you doing it. Its not just the fact that 
 they cant make realizations, it's also that they are so freakin EASY! Killing them all brings no 
 joy, because you dont even get hit while doing it. As long as theyre in a bottleneck you can kill 
 'em off like your stepping on ants.
  
  Overall, Hitman: Contracts is just one more story of a game that has an interesting concept without 
 being able to deliver on gameplay. Perhaps if they focused a little more on the pathetic AI, and 
 a little less on the pain in the arse little subtle ways to kill targets, then the balance would 
 be restored to the gameplay. At the end of the tunnel, the gratification of killing targets is 
 lost in the aforementioned flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvara
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 4, 2004 2:02 am PT
Review:  I would just like to say quite how disappointed i am with this game. (and subsequently feel the 
 need for a good rant!!!) 
  This is due to the fact that my 9200 radeon graphics card apparently conflicts with the game and 
 so the game will not run. Not there is any warning to this on the game's specifications list - 
 i had to discover it for myself by visiting Eidos's website... All i want to know is why when they 
 obviously already know about such a problem, they release the game anyway as opposed to delaying 
 it a week or two and rectifying and major problems for all of those customers who are subsquently 
 unable to run the game and still pay 30 for the previledge of doing so...
  Thanks for listening to my rant - i feel much better now - have fun playing the game as it looks 
 excellant (if you can get it to work!) , and spare a thought for us poor gamers who have older graphics 
 cards and have to wait for the developers to produce new patches for the game to even work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabbuki
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2004 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I simply love this game. The graphics might not be the best since the game is multiplatform and 
 thus was brought down to the lowest common denominator of graphics (you know which console Im 
 talking about) .
  
  Fortunately, the acceptable graphics are compensated by superior gameplay and replay values. The 
 gameplay is just wonderful. The controls are quite intuitive and the many, many based-on-real weapons 
 you can use react realistically when you fire them. The recoil is all there, and the sniper rifle 
 even wobbles when you use the scope. In addition, there have been many weapon improvements done 
 since Hitman 2. In Hitman Contracts, 47 has a much wider variety of ways to kill a man. This is 
 a good thing. The strangulation cord now has 4 or more different killing animations. Also, the 
 pistol whip now is stronger than before and the weapon variety has been extended (you can use pillows 
 to suffocate people too!)
  
  The stealth aspect, though sometimes hard to believe, is done well. You kill a guy, steal his outfit, 
 and act his role to get closer to your target. Sometimes inexplicable your cover has been blown 
 alerts show up, but those are rare. Other times, your cover just gets blown because some bystander 
 saw you strangle another person and reported you to the local authorities. You also have to hide 
 bodies to make sure people dont discover them and blow your cover. 
  
  The replay value is good, too. The challenge of each game is to get the silent assassin rating 
 to unlock all the cool hidden weapons. In addition, the levels are MASSIVE. Theyre many times 
 bigger than levels from Hitman 2, and there are some outdoor environments (though these environments 
 almost always have rain falling in them) . The levels are packed with goodies which include hidden 
 weapons, hidden objects which can be used to kill people in context-sensitive ways (i. e. poisoning 
 a guys whisky or smothering him with a pillow) , and plus, hidden passage ways in some levels. 
 Theres also a level with strippers, and they do have some good moves. 
  
  Over all, I love this game. It might not be worth buying at $50 bucks (its rather short, and you 
 can gun your way through all the levels in probably 5 hours) but its sure a fun game. Rent it 
 if you like. I know I liked it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappy
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2004 9:29 am PT
Review:  I loved the concept of Hitman 1, but I never finished the game because of the crappy save system. 
 Hitman 2 addressed a lot of game play concerns and was much better, but I still got bored toward 
 the end of the game (and didn't finish it either) . I just finished Hitman Contracts. It kept me 
 interested the whole time. I think the feel of being a hitman was more realistic this time. Maybe 
 it was the real world settings? Graphics are great. The post-filtering on the Siberia level is 
 incredible. I don't mourn the loss of the load-out screen. I like being able to jump right into 
 the action. Also love the darker feel and the great rain effects help that too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 28, 2004 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Contracts begun with a major impressive introduction to where Agent47 is shot stumbling 
 into an apartment. From his main rooms floor to the bathroom he has flashbacks of his previous 
 hits. What was great at first was that the mission where new, there where hits involved that you 
 really hadnt seen before. What destroyed it was after the first 5 missions you find yourself playing 
 Hitman 1 all over again wich really sucked the fun out of it. Its slightly changed with some better 
 visuals but you will find yourself "IVE PLAYED THIS BEFORE"
  
  After the new missions I hadnt seen before ending in a replay from the last versions I suddently 
 broke into turning out cheats and just playing through them blasting anything in my path and skipping 
 missions just to see the cutscenes. Very very bad move on IOI from my point of view.
  
  As for the review movies the staff of IOI told us we got more dimension on how to do the hit, makeing 
 it harder to just go in a shoot everyone. And they said some people like to snipe then they will 
 be able to... WRONG! There is 1 level in the entire game that makes it possible to make an effective 
 sniper mission and thats the shortest mission in the game. They even put you in a new mission with 
 the sniper case BUT NOT LOCATION TO SNIPE. More enterable buildings, ability to climb to rooftops 
 to make a hit or through a window in an apartment or facility in all the missions would improve 
 this game alot as I find it to linear and with to many hints and helps.
  
  Like the series? Get the game, it is enjoyable but could be worked alot more on to make it better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Ok I'd like to first note the obvious which is the graphics are not much improved at all. The only 
 real improvment is in the wheather effects when raining and snowing. I have some very helpfull 
 tricks to improving frame rate.
  This new Game has an effect called Post Filtering, I suggest turning it off. It will remove the 
 blurring lighting effect and make the game look alot sharper and framerate will be much faster, 
 basically it will look just like the previous game. The Music is kick ass but the sound effects 
 from the some of the guns are missing some quality. In the first game The Ballers sounded more 
 powerfull it used some bass sound and it sounded very cool. But this game it just doesn't sound 
 as cool. 
  
  It may be just me but I felt the game was a bit too dark. I was looking forward to a variety settings 
 but all the missions took place at night. They say the missions where more elaborate and bigger. 
 Well they are bigger but I would'd say more elaborate. Maybe less complex or the same. But what 
 i do find cool is that you get to carry that breifcase around containing a sniper rifle very cool 
 they didn't have that in the second game only the first game had it, this was cool. The game does 
 feal shorter but i maybe wrong because i had not finished the game yet i actually skipped through 
 the levels to check em out a bit. The second game had alot of levels but smaller in scale and some 
 were short as hell. Another thing that would have bin cool is if it had the briefing Screen like 
 in the second game where they show you short videos of your Target.
  In this game you get a briefing screen but you only get it when you start the mission and press 
 "B" to access your Contract information.
  
  The game does offer alot of weapons but where in the hell are the 9mm berettas dammit. I still 
 like this game alot if I think of it as more of an huge expansion for Hitman 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2004 10:18 pm PT
Review:  While it's true that technologically this game has not come very far, it is also true that the 
 gameplay is tried and true. If there were more of the previous hitman game, I'd play it now, and 
 that's pretty much what Hitman: Contracts is. When it's described in Gamespot's review as being 
 more like an expansion pack (albiet a VERY large one) , it's right on the money. It would have been 
 nice to see the rough edges smoothed (the way stealth kills with knives, syringes, garrotes, etc 
 are animated/shown could be vastly improved with today's tech, making what is a KEY to the game 
 even more satisfying) and the whole Hitman experience brought into 2004, but even as it is, it's 
 worth buying if you like the series. More than anything, I hope the makers of hitman make a further 
 sequel using next generation FPS Technology and make the next installment all that it could be, 
 since from a design standpoint, they have OBVIOUSLY not lost their touch. From a level design and 
 artistic standpoint, Hitman: Contracts is a resounding achievement. The first level is good... 
 but the second, in which you make your way through a slaughterhouse filled with butchers, and S&M 
 partygoers is masterful. Hitman: Contracts is an experience marred only by the fact that it leaves 
 you wondering what it COULD have been if it's source engine had been truly upgraded along with 
 it's overall concept. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
