-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hitman: Codename 47
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hitmancodename47/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 2,084 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Io Interactive
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 19, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if you like the basic premise and action of the game, a number of very serious flaws quickly 
 sap its entertainment value. 

 Hitman: Codename 47 is a game in which you strangle a man as he urinates in a storm grate. And that's 
 only the beginning of the dark, adult subject matter. The game puts you in control of a trained 
 killer who uses stealth and firepower to murder various thugs and criminals. Even if you like the 
 basic premise and action of the game, a number of very serious flaws quickly sap its entertainment 
 value.   

  The frame story, such as it is, owes a large debt to the movie La Femme Nikita, or its Americanized 
 version, Point of No Return. Your alter ego, the bald and nameless hit man, begins the game restrained 
 to a bed in padded room. You're then greeted by a disembodied, Russian-sounding voice that orders 
 you through a training course tutorial. Here, with melodramatic camp, he'll instruct you on how 
 to use a garrote to strangle a dummy, drone on about the origins and technical specs of the AK-47, 
 and largely annoy you. Oddly, your character never once stops to ask where he is, why he has a 
 bar code on the back of his head, or who this talkative Russian is who's ordering him about. The 
 main hint about the hit man's origins is a vague, uninformed, and potentially insulting introduction 
 in the manual that compares science and religion and hints at Frankenstein-like attempts to outdo 
 nature. The predictable truth about the hit man's origins is eventually revealed as you progress 
 through the game.   

  As you immediately learn in the tutorial mission, controlling the hit man can be a real chore. 
 Your crosshair changes based on the weapon type you're holding, and it also changes when you move 
 it over an object you can manipulate. When you right-click on the object, a pop-up menu lists your 
 available options. So, with a dead body, for instance, you can drag it away from the scene to prevent 
 suspicion, or you can don its clothes for a disguise. This system is clever in theory but annoying 
 in practice, since you'll often click on an object and nothing will happen. But then you'll move 
 the crosshair slightly, and then it suddenly works. Another control problem is actually in the 
 lack of control on certain occasions. Instead of manually climbing or jumping at particular times, 
 the hit man will automatically carry out those actions when at a junction that allows it, though 
 you can only guess which those are. At other occasions, you'll inexplicably be able to climb ladders 
 manually. What's even more surprising, given that the game emphasizes stealth, is that you can't 
 go prone to hide or snipe. You'll also get frustrated at the frequency with which the hit man gets 
 snagged on doors, chairs, and other objects.   

  What really impedes control is the use of a third-person view. You can switch between two external 
 camera views, but both are jerky and awkward. In the default view, movement and exploration inside 
 buildings can be very frustrating as ceilings and walls sometimes partially block your view. A 
 third-person view such as this doesn't work well in a game that requires situational awareness, 
 stealth, and accurate aiming. The only time you get a first-person view is when sniping or using 
 binoculars.   

  Once done with the tutorial, you begin the main missions, in which you carry out hits for "The 
 Agency." Succeed, and you'll earn more money with which to buy new weapons and gear, though it's 
 unclear why this agency that dictates your fate can't afford to just give you the weapons you need. 
 You'll typically earn more than enough money to buy whatever you need regardless, which makes it 
 a moot point. Then again, without the money there's no initial motivation to actually follow your 
 orders. You don't know whom you're working for, why, or what would happen if you didn't obey - 
 though you eventually do find out.   

  The game is divided into chapters of multiple, related missions. These take place in exotic locales 
 across the globe: You'll instigate a war between Chinese Triad gangs in Hong Kong; take out a drug 
 lord deep in the rainforests of Columbia; stop a terrorist who plans to detonate a bomb at a world-peace 
 conference in Budapest; and prevent a Russian gunrunner from selling nuclear weapons secrets in 
 Rotterdam. Unfortunately, the gameplay is more frustrating than fun. In addition to the awkward 
 controls and the camera's tendency of getting in the way, scripted cutscenes will begin at seemingly 
 random moments, more often than not at the worst junctures, such as in the middle of a firefight. 
 Your heads-up display constantly updates you with messages about enemies' status, so you'll know 
 when one of them has discovered the body of a friend and is now alerted to something suspicious. 
 How you can know the status of multiple enemies who are out of view is also never justified.   
 

  For a game that lavishes so much attention on weapons in the training mission, this lack of realism 
 is surprising. A sniper rifle can kill with one shot, but it can take five or six hits from a pistol 
 or submachine gun to knock someone down. The hit man can also lug around two submachine guns, with 
 one in his hand and one hidden in his suit coat, along with multiple pistols, ammo, and other assorted 
 gear. He's more of a one-man army than he is a sly assassin. Although, in some missions, you'll 
 definitely need all the firepower, as you'll have to take on a score or more of guards. You'll 
 get the sense that the game can't decide whether it's a shooter or a more tactical "sneaker," reminiscent 
 of Thief: The Dark Project.    

 One element of the missions that can have both a positive and a negative impact on your experience 
 with the game is your frequent lack of information. In your briefing, you're given a very basic 
 mission goal or two, a vague map, and a photo of your intended victim. But after that, it's up 
 to you to figure out the best way to accomplish the job. This can be challenging at times and can 
 makes Hitman seem like an adventure game as much as a shooter. The often-extreme lack of planning 
 information can also make missions exceptionally hard, even on the easiest difficulty setting. 
 More detailed intelligence and pre-mission planning, as in the Rainbow Six games, would have made 
 the missions much more manageable.   

  If you can get past the poor controls and nuisances of the mission structures, the stealth and 
 combat sequences can be fun. The tension of trying to evade hordes of guards who react quickly 
 and intelligently to threats can be really exciting. Their ability to navigate the levels and work 
 in concert is superb. To avoid them, you'll have to lurk through alleys and across rooftops. You'll 
 sneak up behind unsuspecting enemies and strangle them to steal their clothes for a disguise. Then 
 you'll coolly infiltrate enemy strongholds.   

  Just when you start having fun, the controls or a mission's vagueness will cost you your life. 
 Normally, that would be no great tragedy in a game, but in Hitman you can't save your game during 
 a mission. In a PC shooter that requires lots of stealth and experimentation, this design flaw 
 is inexplicable. It doesn't add tension - it adds extreme frustration. Fortunately, some missions 
 at least give you the option of restarting at the same place in the action when you die, in arcadelike 
 fashion. Unfortunately, by the time you get killed, the mission is usually so bungled that you 
 may as well start over from scratch.   

  Although the gameplay can be frustrating, the graphics are a different matter entirely. Scenes, 
 characters, and weapons are well detailed and memorable, and they are often beautifully rendered. 
 Textures like carved wall moldings, peeling paint on clapboards, or exotic statuary and vases are 
 vivid and crisp. The graphics are also richly and vibrantly colored, taking full advantage of the 
 exotic locales. In the Hong Kong setting, the game makes full use of the bold, vivid hues of traditional 
 Chinese decoration. Level architecture is at times exceptionally imaginative and immersive. Visual 
 effects are equally stylish, particularly weapons fire. Smoke will waft in the breeze when you 
 fire a gun, and rounds will ricochet off hard surfaces with a flash. Some other really nice effects 
 are the first-person binocular and sniper scope views. With the latter, you'll actually see light 
 glare off the bottom of the lens, and the view will bob slightly with your hit man's breathing. 
 The animations are also convincing, and the way bystanders and guards suspiciously eye you by turning 
 their heads as you pass is almost creepy in its realism. Still, there are a few flaws with the 
 graphics, like overly dark areas and some odd draw-in texture shimmering in outdoor areas.   

 
  The sound is almost as good as the graphics. The dark and brooding ambient score suits the grim 
 mood of the game well. Weapons sounds are loud and vivid. Shell casings clink as they hit the ground, 
 and rounds plink off metal. Doors, elevators, and other environmental sounds are also clear and 
 realistic. However, guards and henchmen have a very limited repertoire of things to say, and their 
 accents are often suspect too.   

  While the missions of Hitman can be involving, there's ultimately little replay value in the game. 
 Missions seem to be hard-scripted, in terms of both the events and their timing. There's often 
 only one proper solution for each mission, and only a few minor variations are available each time. 
 Hitman lacks the extensive open-endedness of a game such as Deus Ex, which is too bad in light 
 of the generally excellent artificial intelligence of civilian and enemy characters in the game. 
 After you've played through a mission in Hitman once or twice, there's little incentive to return 
 to it. There aren't any multiplayer modes available either, though with its emphasis on stealth 
 and disguise, the game wouldn't be particularly well suited to it anyway, unless it were in the 
 form of cooperative missions.   

  It's unfortunate that flaws like these, in addition to the awkward camera positioning, clunky controls, 
 and excessive guesswork in the missions detract so much from the game. Still, some aspects of the 
 game can be entertaining, particularly the lush graphics. Some of the design concepts of Hitman: 
 Codename 47 have potential, but the game ultimately fails in the execution.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (57 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SlykReviewin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Codename 47 is a spectacular game, but has its flaws like every game does. The story is 
 great and awesome. The weapons in the game are just like a hitman-for-hire needs. Stealth is part 
 of the game and you can die easily in the game with one shot. It does look outdated with the graphics 
 and textures and still could've been upgraded a bit. Why is this game underrated Is this game old 
 or graphics are cr*p? I mostly think of the graphics because doesn't EVERYBODY rate this game for 
 its graphics and it takes the fun out of it? Ok, to the point its an awesome game for the PC, its 
 fun and addictive.
  
  Graphics - 8.1, could've been better, but I don't care.
  
  Gameplay - 8.9 its good.
  
  Storyline - 9.2, its a great story.
  
  Voice - 9.4 its good, 
 but not great.
  
  Sound - 9.0 it has good sound.
  
  It's a must - buy for the PC.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rukshan47
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  I wonder why somebody rate this game a 5! Im sure that he haven't played this game or he played 
 in mass murder way. This is a real stealth game , not only you need patient but also you have to 
 think hard in many ways to do some task. This game has been heavily underrated by Gamespot. But 
 looking at user score anybody can understand it. This was an excellent game in that time ( year 
 200) compared to other games of that time. I was amazed when I completed it's 4th mission. I can 
 still remember. This game was not just mission based game. It has a great story which connected 
 the each mission. I'm waiting for the 5th title of this great game series. I would definitely recommend 
 this series for the people those who like stealth genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingisgood
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  This is the very first entry in the series , so it was expected to have flaws. The storyline is 
 barely there , but it is and only after a while you will learn who is Agent 47 . 
  The game play has some really great ideas . You have some weapons to choose at the beginning of 
 a mission , and a few stealth moves. It a very good thing , but control and camera issues ruin 
 more than half of it. A cool thing is that you can run while shooting , even with heavy guns. But 
 because of the controls .... To pick a weapon is a pain . AND THE GAME DOES NOT PAUSE WHEN YOU 
 PICK . IT TAKES FOREVER TO PICK A WEAPON . In tight situations this is a problem . 
  So you are forced to be silent. Combining stealth and shooting is rewarding. The game is pretty 
 hard but to make thing worse you have no saving (after finishing a mission it does save) but during 
 the mission...
  For example the jungle missions are long . After you die you have some chances left , bu if you 
 die by the hand of guards , you return with the guard on your case. Anyway , changing clothes , 
 shooting is fun.
  The game looks good with some nice effects , but has some bad textures . The soundtrack is well 
 made , keeping you in action , but some tracks are remixes . 
  Anyway it is a fair game , but it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zivlaks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Back in the 2000 when this game came out , it had the most original playing concept a game could 
 offer .Never before could you put yourself in the role of a such a stealthy assassin and kill your 
 targets so many ways .
  
  For instance , you can just rush in with a big shotgun and make a massacre killing all the guards 
 and the target .But greatest thing you can do , is killing targets , and killing ONLY targets without 
 anyone even knowing they are dead . Leaving a guard in the room next door who doesn't even know 
 what happened !
  
  This game has 10 levels , and when you play each and every one of them , it is as if you are living 
 the actual story , trying to find a way to be an assassin yourself . And there are 2-3 ways to 
 end some missions which gives this game an incredible replay value .
  
  I don't understand why anyone would give this game a 5 ranking when it has so much to offer ... 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Hitman from IO Interactive allows you to control a bald man who is a professional hitman, who works 
 with a company called 'The Agency'. Just like any Hitman profession, he is sent on missions to 
 specifically to kill the target.
  
  The gameplay is a third person shooter, before you are sent off, you can equip yourself with weapons 
 and tools to help you with obstacles and problems during the mission. 
  
  When you start your mission, you are brief on which target to assassinate and then set out. You 
 get to learn how to control the character and are noted on the types of way you can interact with 
 the environment at the tutorial in the beginning of the game. The controls are expands as you can 
 lean your head to peak around corners which I did have trouble to find using in the game at times.
 
  
  Other parts include stealth elements, as when you sneak behind an enemy and knock them out or kill 
 them and also hiding the body so anyone wouldn't be able to find it. The NPCs include enemies and 
 also civilians, which will allow everyone to be alert that there's a killer present.
  
  Unfortunately, when it comes down to this, half of the mission is already ruin, sometimes you have 
 to resort to running and shooting everyone or forcing to restart again. However, you will still 
 complete the mission, just a lower rating and lower reward of cash and you would have missed the 
 true parts of assassinating in the game.
  
  The weapons had a lot of varity and you are allow to pick up enemies weapons and their uniforms 
 as well and sneak into the targets building, this element adds something new and matches well towards 
 the games theme.
  
  At the beginning of the game, the first few missions are extremely short, meanwhile, the rest of 
 the missions are lengthy, however difficult to pick up after a few tries. On the bright side, the 
 missions are good and do have a common theme of each chapter.
  
  The games visuals and sound are pretty good and the art direction style make the game stand out 
 and classy.
  
  When you finish the game, you simply can replay the missions whenever you want, the game would 
 be cool if it added some more replay value, however it just stands as a single player game.
  
  Overall for a beginning of the Hitman series, as the game that starts it all, it has an interesting 
 dynamic within the game and set this game apart from over third person shooters. Despites it's 
 flaws, this game offers a lot of fun during a single play through.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTU_Agent24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Again Gamespot, 5.2??? I don't get it?!?!?!?
  
  First of all THIS IS A GOOD GAME. I started the hitman series at Hitman 2, then found this in clasic 
 version so i bought it. While not as good as silent Assian (hitman 2) It is still a good game. 
 You need to get use to slow and stealth (relying on disguises alot) but it'
  s still FUN.
  On mission involves you in a hotel in which you must assinate your tartget and retrieve a bomb. 
 IT'S PLAIN FUN!!! You can either steel a disguise and stealthly kill your target, or go all guhns 
 blazing. PERFECT FUN.
  
  In the end, You will like this game, while it's not perfect, it is much better then 5 and theres 
 alot of fun to be had with it.
  
  The EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe 
 EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe 
 EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe 
 EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe 
 EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe EndThe 
 EndThe EndThe End
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Well, it just comes another case of gamespot giving some good games a really bad rating. But that's 
 quite rare and gamespot does give good proper ratings but here in this case it is wrong.
  
  Hitman, a game released in 2000 was the game that spun off the Hitman Quadralogy!! Hitman though 
 not a huge hit was commercially successful. It is also among the first ten 3D games that i have 
 played.
  
  Surely, Metal Gear is the game that started the stealth genre, but this game really gave stealth 
 a different twist and thus transpired to be one of the very popular games. It's sequel Silent Assassin 
 is one of the Greatest games i have ever played.
  
  One of the major reasons why people like this game is its main character. Agent 47 who is a tough 
 and a very cool guy to play with.
  
  Gameplay : This has its own unique game play. You have to do missions and you get rating based 
 on your professionalism. If you are good at stealth games, you have to be a good sneaker, alert, 
 good at weapons and other things.
  
  Best thing, this game is free form and you don't get a **** like Splinter Cell saying mission failed 
 if you go to an "All Out" mode. Guns are amazing. Machine guns, Silencer Pistols Knives etc.
  
  Main things are injections, FIBER WIRE (The Best) , Poison etc. The best thing about hitman 
 is that you can do your mission any way you want.
  
  Graphics: Terrible, that's why i did not give it a 10/10 and only 8/10. Graphics for 2000 was pretty 
 Good but not great. Metal Gear Solid for 1999 had great graphics. For today's time the graphics 
 is terrible and you just cannot play it.
  
  Story : WOW!! I just can't describe in words. It's got an amazing story which will never make you 
 bored even in some of the levels having repeated gameplay.
  
  OVERALL : This game has made a very special place in my and many other gamer's hearts. It definitely 
 doesn't deserve a dismal rating of 5.2!! Has to be atleast an 8.
  
  Just like MGS, this game has revolutionized stealth in its own way and hence is really Great in 
 its own right.
  Unplayable for today's time, i would suggest Hitman 2 - Silent Assassin, the best in series!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakanadin
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game to be more of an experiment, than a game.. This is my first bad review, so 
 I am not very used to it..
  
  Pro's: Not too many.. Game play is ok at best, nothing much from there, graphics aren't total crap.. 
 I really cannot mention anything else from this, I am not a fan of this game whatsoever.
  
  Con's: Many many Con's.. Hard almost impossible A. I. even on easy, horrible aim for the first mission. 
 No first person, horrid nightmarish even difficulty trying to keep stealthy. i do not even want 
 to mention anything else....
  
  All in all, I give Hitman: Codename 47 on a scale of 1-10, an astounding 3/10, which is my lowest 
 rating so far. I find its game play very horrid, crappy graphics, hard to understand game play, 
 nasty sniping spots, and so on and so forth... I recommend going straight to Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, 
 which is a huge improvement on this... I do not know if this should be considered a game... I am 
 sorry Eidos Interactive and IO, but... This game, is just completely horrid and needs to be discontinued. 
 Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex1995191
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  The hitman series has it flaws but best part for me has always been the stealth/puzzle/action adventure 
 type gameplay it has. Hitman codename 47 is first game in the series. Your Mr 47 a genetically engineered 
 clone. All long the way theres simple little twists you learn in the story. The Good = Gameplays 
 great. Story good overall. Great nice made levels. Guns are easy to shoot and makes you feel like 
 you have power especially when you get the mini gun. Controls are ok once you get use to them you 
 like them. The Bad = no so bright A. I. Sometimes graphics blur if its not on certain resolution. 
 Sometimes voices skip and say one word a hundred times in a row which reminds of time when doctor 
 who created you sayed i standed on top of hundred midgets to create you then i guess he had to 
 say midget hundred times to count all the ones he stood on. Hitman 1 is for big fans of game series 
 or lovers of this game type otherwise you might as well go play hitman 2 3 or 4. But if you look 
 past its flaws its overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantomi_08
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  Ezen a jatekon eleg sokat gondolkodtam, hogy is kell tovabb. Nagyon erdekes, fordulatos, nagyon 
 bele lehet merulni a jatekba, amig kidolgozod a tervedet, hogy honnan kezded, informaciokat szerzel, 
 kidolgozod a menekulesi utvonalat. Eleinte nem kell annyira ovatos legyel mint a vege fele, mar 
 a jatek kozepetol kezdve egyre ovatosabb kell hogy legyel. Teteszett meg benne a missziok elotti 
 infok mutatasa, videokat tudtam nezni az ellenfelrol, leirta a gyermekkorat, az eletet. Meg az 
 is tetszett hogy nem csak egy helyen jatszodik az egesz jatek hanem a vilag kulonbozo pontjain. 
 Az iranyitas eleinte nem tetszett de hamar meg lehet szokni, meg eleg bonuolult a fegyver hasznalata, 
 elovetele, eltevese, de csak eleinte, mint minden jatek eloszor szokatlan , de ne feledjuk gyakorlat 
 teszi a mestert. Most kezdtem el jatszani a Hitman 2-est, remelem ez is lesz olyan jo mint az elozo 
 valtozat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLegendKnight
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Codename 47 is good looking game with a baldy hitman. He is cool or not that depends on 
 your view, but he is abit stiff and looks like a robot thats for sure. 
  
  The game is like a hitman's diary and presents nice thought missions. I must say first 2 levels 
 really make you feel like you are a hitman, but thats because they are short and you complete your 
 mission from distance. When you start level 3 which is long, you interact with many things, like 
 NPCs, items, doors etc. , you see there are many many bugs in this game and they are ready to make 
 you crazy. The game offers a nice and quick AI so you really start to think what to do, how to 
 do next but in action you suffer bugs of the game. Also robotic movements of characters or puppet 
 like bodies start to annoy you later.
  
  This game is broken by its design flaws even the concept is good. You can try it if you feel like 
 a hitman but you should not see these flaws to enjoy which is almost impossible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallconet
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  don't play this game (all series) like a shooter game and you'll findout what this game can do 
 with you ,there is not much game like this that makes you create somthing, in most of games you 
 should just follow the sign do what the first looking at the game wants you to do and nothing more.. but 
 this gme if you play it right let you be a doer, you can finish the missions stealth or with alot 
 of blood ,it's up to you, game, makes you think and solve the puzzles, graphics are great fot the 
 time the game released! soundtrack is superb and plus a good voice acting, fantastic story line, very 
 exciting missions that are completly different from eachother! to me: best pc game ever for sure!
 
  the characters are great, hitman itself is really a badass that shouldbe, and i forgot to say,, there 
 will be a amazing finishing story there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I always love a action stealth game. But this is the most intense shooter i have played yet. This 
 is just my opinion but its a little bit too hard for me to take. You play a genetically engineered 
 clone 47. You must kill certain people that just need to die like gang leaders, arm smugglers, drug 
 dealers, and terrorists. I love how I could just blow through these bad guys with a shotgun or something. My 
 greatest love is both the shotgun and the knife you could use on enemies. But the enemy A. I is just 
 too hard, it could just make you restart the whole mission all over again without saving. You could 
 not save which does not make me appreciated at all. The soundtrack and the sound effects are really 
 stunning to the whole game. But their could be some giltches later on in the game. Like unbeatable 
 missions. The HUD is so small you just cannot see it, but thanks to these guys you can actually adjust 
 the resolution a bit. Also the game is added with some ragdoll physics which is a little bit weird 
 than just meeting up with a 100 pound woman on the Butapest hotel mission. This game has a really 
 fun shooting gameplay on gun fights later on in the game. You need to think and observe your environment 
 in order to eliminate you target. Annoying as it is you only get two continues when you die. After 
 you wasted them all, their, you start the whole mission all over again. Welp I hope enjoyed this review 
 on HItman Codename 47 see ya guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lama_savakhfani
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  Playing for the first time could be annoying due to inability to save your game solely. In the 
 presense of long missions where you just walking to the ammo box or to the brothel it's essential 
 to save your game before you really start to risk Hitman's life. These only feature or rather its 
 absense spoils the whole party. Second bad thing is about strange AI - one can never guess when 
 and why they start shooting or don't. You can kill Lee Hong in his quarters and nobody will define 
 you as a killer. Otherwise if someone sees you with machine gun in your hands the whole drug baron's 
 base knows you are an evil alien.
  
  But I walked through Hitman: Codename 47 four times and I have the right to say it's simple. It's 
 hard to find this simple way but following it is easy. And when you don't bother about uncertain 
 consequences of your next move you start to notice great designers' work and ominous music with 
 latent tension. People turn their heads on you and you feel yourself as a stranger in the world 
 of a momentary lull in the fighting. One incorrect move can activate shouting and shooting but 
 you still have a couple of chances to hide or change your appearance. Of course it is ridiculous 
 when Hitman puts on someone else's clothes and nobody can identify him as a tall bald killer who 
 has been there just a minute ago. Well, it's just a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruce_Banner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  It's a very hard game, but that doesn't make it boring. It makes you think a lot about the way 
 you plan your hit. You have to analyse the environment, the movements every character make, and 
 that takes a lot of patience and quick-thinking. You have a lot of ways to accomplish a mission, 
 but only one of them is the "perfect" one. You also have an arsenal of weapons that goes from a 
 fibre wire to a minigun. The only thing that isn't very good is the end of the game, but that doesn't 
 spoil the rest. Once you've started playing it, it's almost impossible to stop. The game becomes 
 even better as you go deeper into Agent 47's story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game gives a terrific first impression, but that only lasts during the title sequence and 
 the main menu. The sound effects are brilliant, the graphics, though still rather ugly now, were 
 great back in 2000, but the controls are a disaster. Why couldn't the controls be like in the other 
 games. If IO did that and added a save system with at least a couple of saves this game would have 
 been good. I can get round dated graphics but not with an interface so clunky you'll be clicking 
 all over the place randomly just trying and find where to call an elavator. Madness!
  
  If you have alot of patience however and you can get through all the game without clipping into 
 everything and fumbling about in search of a point of interactivety and of course, you are amongst 
 the most loyal Hitman fans, you may find some enjoyment in this wasted mess, but most people would 
 agree that HC47 is a waste of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Codename 47 never seizes to amaze me. Even eight years after its release, it is still one 
 of the best stealth / action games that I have ever played. The level of intensity is only magnified 
 by its excellent soundtrack by Jesper Kyd. This is still to date one of the hardest games that 
 I have ever played. The incredibly advanced artificial intelligence is extremely hard to come by 
 even now. If you steal a uniform or have killed someone that you were not supposed to kill, you 
 will be eyed suspiciously by the guards and even the civilians passing by. If you don't do things 
 right in this game, you had better have a hell of a lot of ammo.
  
  It came out in November of 2000, I remember the day my brother brought it home, I was only ten 
 years old, and I loved to massacre those levels. And now, eight years later, I am still playing 
 this game, and I am still doing a horrible job doing things correctly. Either way, this proves 
 to me that it is entertaining and despite what game magazines and even GameSpot says, it does have 
 replay value, that is, of course, unless you are a perfectionist and do things right the first 
 time around. I am more of a shoot everything with a pulse and two legs first and figure it out 
 later kind of person.
  
  The graphics in Codename 47 are absolutely beautiful for when it came out. You needed a pretty 
 high-spec system to be able to run this in 2000. Every level had a unique look to it; most of them 
 were not even in the same country, or even on the same continent. You go from what I believe to 
 be somewhere in Russia (the person on the loud speaker sounds Russian) , to Hong Kong, to Columbia, 
 to Rotterdam, and a few other places. The architecture, colors, decorations, and the character 
 models themselves are extremely high quality (for eight years ago) .
  
  Codename 47 was probably the first game that actually used ragdoll physics as part of the gameplay, 
 although sometimes they were absolutely hilarious (close range shots with a powerful rifle can 
 send your enemy flying through the air) . One of the key points of this game is making sure that 
 the people you kill are hidden; to hide them, you have to drag them into a storm drain in an alleyway, 
 behind a pile of trash bags, or over a ledge. It was also the first game that I had ever seen to 
 use disguises as part of the gameplay. If you need to get to a certain point in the level, you 
 can't just stroll in wearing you're suit and tie; that will end in you getting turned into swiss 
 cheese. You have to kill guards for their clothes, and then the other guards will rarely question 
 why there is a white bald guy with a barcode on the back of his head in the Chinese Triad. If you 
 have the guard clothes, you're good.
  
  The difficulty in this game at times can be frustrating, but that's a good thing. It's incredibly 
 hard to do things wrong and still just as hard to do things right. The difficulty makes the game 
 last; it's lasted for eight years with me. The clunky controls do add to the difficulty as sometimes 
 you will do something you do not mean to do, such as take out a weapon when you mean to take out 
 an entrance card to a hotel or something like that.
  
  Overall, I would have to say that this game is absolutely amazing. It's nearly flawless design 
 and just the fun of the game in general makes for a great single player experience. This is the 
 game the started it all. All of you who have missed out on this game need to go out and find it. 
 It's available online if it isn't in any stores near you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  i remember this game very well , as i deleted it in frustration because i couldn't complete it 
 ; very very very hard game
  
  and please ; no saves in the game ; come on , how can you do this
  
  anything you make it wrong 
 while playing , will make restart the whole mission from scratch this wasn't fair for anybody ; 
 i rememer spending like 30 minutes in a certain level , and one alarm pops out ; and you have to 
 start all over again
  
  i deleted the game without completing it as i was very mad
  
  if they had a saving system , this game was supposed to be one of the best games ever because of 
 the stealth mode and the interlligence in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  How bloody frustrating! Hitman: Codename 47 is a simultaneous example of design genius and tragic 
 mistake-making. It's a pretty package with graphics to kill for and enough style to make James 
 Bond look like he shops at the local Kmart. Sadly, just as Hitman starts to brandish the big guns, 
 it shoots itself right in the foot.
  
  You play the title role of the Hitman, a bald badass with a penchant for slick suits and expensive 
 weapons. Dropped into realistic settings, you're given the task of eliminating a target and getting 
 out alive. The jobs take place in posh hotels, Chinatown restaurants, and even an insane asylum, 
 all reproduced with a tremendous eye for detail. The hotels have spiffy restrooms, the restaurants 
 hide dingy kitchens, and the insane asylum looks like a set from a Terry Gilliam movie. And every 
 last detail looks amazing.
  
  The Glacier engine powering Hitman sports some pretty impressive features. The physics model is 
 outstanding. Bullets actually look like they're impacting on their targets, your victims' bodies 
 can be dragged around like rag dolls, and the environment will react to your movements (such as 
 plants swaying as you pass them) . But all the good looks come at a price of game speed; the action 
 gets especially choppy when more than five people are on the screen at once.
  
  Before you begin plotting a hit, you're presented with a cool briefing on your objectives. You 
 get maps of the location, plus pictures and surveillance videos of your target (s) , and you're given 
 the opportunity to buy special equipment. Weapons range from the mundane (a 9mm pistol) to the 
 downright exotic (the rare and expensive Walther WA2000 semiautomatic sniper rifle) . You can also 
 deck yourself out in state-of-the-art body armor, conceal piano wire, and pack the occasional car 
 bomb. The missions themselves start as simple kill-the-target affairs and progress to more complex 
 scenarios, such as instigating a war between rival street gangs.
  
  As you play through the first few missions, you'll truly start to appreciate what IO Interactive 
 was trying to do with Hitman. Initially, the mission structures are incredibly open-ended. For 
 example, your first task is to eliminate a negotiator from a Hong Kong street gang. You have the 
 option to take to the rooftops with your sniper rifle, or just charge in with a Beretta 9mm blazing 
 in each hand. You can also go the sneaky route: silently kill a guard with your piano wire, put 
 on his clothes, hide his body, and then casually walk up to the target, get in close, and slit 
 his throat with a knife. The options are plentiful and the choices are all yours.
  
  Of course, you can't just waltz through the city killing with impunity; there are laws against 
 that sort of thing. All of your targets have bodyguards, and policemen patrol the streets regularly. 
 These guys won't hesitate to put you down if they see you so much as draw a gun on them (requiring 
 you to have keys designated to draw and hide your weapon) . But sometimes the biggest threat comes 
 from the least-expected place. The average citizen strolling down the street can easily be in the 
 wrong place at the wrong time (say, turning down an alleyway just as you're dispatching a security 
 guard) and end up alerting the cops. On one mission, I managed to kill one of my targets, but was 
 spotted by a pedestrian. I took him out, but as I was dragging away his body, another pedestrian 
 came by and saw me, so I had to take him out too, and then a cop saw me, so I dispatched him, but 
 not before he managed to call for backup. Let's just say I had to restart that mission. It's this 
 kind of escalation of terror that makes Hitman so impressive. Each person you kill can potentially 
 lead to some dire new consequences. It's best to kill only when you have to, and even then you 
 have to make sure that no one's around and it's done quietly. Make a wrong move and you'll suddenly 
 find yourself knee-deep in the dead.
  
  The problem is, just when you start getting used to the open-ended nature of the missions, the 
 game changes and your options quickly become much more limited as the objectives become more intricate. 
 Suddenly, you have to do everything a certain way or risk failure. Some missions are so difficult 
 that the only possible way to beat them is to play them over and over again until you figure out 
 what you're supposed to do. That means many restarts as you approach and fail each new objective.
 
  
  The crime of not giving you enough information kicks off even in the training mission - not enough 
 time was spent easing you into your role before you're expected to know that you can take the clothes 
 of one guard you've offed in order to fool another. This happens again with the last guy in the 
 game: make one slight mistake and you have to start the level all over again. Top those problems 
 off with the lack of an in-mission save feature, and you've got one very frustrated gamer on your 
 hands.
  
  Hitman had the potential to be one of the best action games ever, but some serious game-design 
 failures and short-sightedness end up dragging it down. There's some incredible stuff here, but 
 it's chronically frustrating to get at it, and your patience will be stretched to the limit. Let's 
 just hope we see a sequel that will allow Hitman to become the incredible property that it should 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fateproducer
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Ugh... I do not even know how to start because being honest the first part of Hitman series is 
 little disappointing.
  But what can I say... if you want to be big you have to be small. I could not find anything special 
 in this Hitman. Only the Budapest Hotel mission made me fun but the other missions I got through 
 because of my curiosity, connection with the other parts and the Hitman's story.
  There is lots of bugs and apart from that... Mr. 47 seems to be like a Rambo and not like a cold-blooded 
 contract killer who has to hide and sneak to get to its target.
  I recommend this game to big fans of Hitman series because it's little connected with the subsequent 
 parts but if you never played Hitman you
  can do without this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Not too long ago, a buddy of mine and myself were really hungry so we went on a late night trip 
 to Sonic to pick up some burgers and a slush. I had been looking for a particular game for a while, 
 but could never find it. So in another attempt to find that game, we stopped at a 24 hour Wal-mart. 
 Unfortunately, I didn't find it. But I did find the Hitman trilogy (which consisted of the 2nd, 
 3rd, and 4th game) for only 30 dollars. I had never played any of them, but I heard that they were 
 pretty good. Since it was such a great price -- roughly 10 bucks per game -- I decided to buy it. 
 But I figured that if I was going to play these games, I might as well do it right. So I bought 
 this game off of Ebay brand new for a mere 8 bucks including shipping. If I had to sum it up in 
 one short sentence, it would be this. What a mess. Hitman: Codename 47 feels completely unfinished 
 from top to bottom. There isn't one aspect to the game that pulls through solidly. It all ranges 
 from mediocre to awful.
  
  The game starts off rather abruptly. The protagonist, known only as 47, wakes up strapped down 
 to a bed. He's then told by an unknown voice to get up, get dressed, and get going. You learn everything 
 you need to know to play the game in this level and at the end you'll kill one person, then move 
 on to your first real assignment. I assume that every single mission in the game is tied together 
 by some plot, but you wouldn't know it. After the training mission, you're thrust into an inexplicable 
 assignment of killing random people for no real apparent reason. They do brief you before each 
 mission. As to who they are I have no idea, but it's completely nonsensical.
  
  Starting off on a high note, the gameplay in the first three levels is very fun. None of them are 
 too complicated, overly difficult, or just plain dumb like the levels after. For these missions, 
 you'll be tasked with killing one person and one person only. You certainly can kill others, but 
 it will make your job much harder. The fun lies in finding an effective way to take down your target. 
 There are usually a handful of ways you can do it, but there is always one easier way. For instance, 
 in the very first level the best way to take out your target is to take a lift to the roof of a 
 building, set up your sniper rifle, sit back, and patiently wait until you have an open window 
 to pop a bullet in his skull. In my mind, this is what being a hitman is all about.
  
  You'd think that a game based on a stealthy hitman would be focused on stealth. Think again. Although 
 there are some stealth levels where remaining undetected is easily the best way to go about things, 
 some levels have you acting like a mercenary. For example, the levels in the middle of the game 
 take place in a jungle. It's practically impossible to not get fired upon in these missions, so 
 going about stealthily is a negative. The game constantly stresses silent kills, but doesn't have 
 a design that allows silent kills to be effective. In the last jungle level, the target you have 
 to take down is treated like a boss fight, meaning you can't kill him with a few silent shots. 
 The enemy just taunts you as you shoot him, but he won't die. So when he shoots back, the enemies 
 inside and outside hear it, come running, and instantly take you down. So to take on your target 
 without other interference, you'll have to kill every single person within ear shot and believe 
 me, that's a whole lot of enemies. Taking them down silently is near impossible because there are 
 enemy outposts looking down on what's happening. So going guns a blazing is the best way to do 
 it. Here's why that doesn't work. It's just too difficult. You know how most games that stress 
 stealth over running and gunning give you a lot less leverage when it comes to your health and 
 if you get shot only a few times you die? Yeah, Hitman: Codename 47 is like that too. One enemy 
 can quickly take you down with one or two short bursts of gunfire. Since some levels cannot virtually 
 be completed with perfect stealth, you'll die a whole lot.
  
  Here's another example of why the game was designed so sloppy. At the beginning of each mission, 
 you get the choice of what weapons you want and whether or not you want body armor, a compass, 
 and more. But for a three level stretch, you have the same inventory that you had for the previous 
 level. The third level pretty much requires a sniper rifle if you plan on getting anywhere. Well, 
 I dropped my sniper rifle in the level before it to pick up something else, unaware that it was 
 essential in the upcoming level. It was still possible to finish the level without the sniper rifle, 
 but it was clear the level was designed for a little sniper action. So not having one in the level 
 (at least I didn't find one) and expecting the player to keep it from the previous level was absolutely 
 absurd.
  
  To be fair, the levels where you can be stealthy and blend in with the crowd are done fairly well. 
 There are two levels in particular that are quite long and incredibly difficult, but the other 
 shorter stealth levels were great fun. There's nothing quite like quietly taking down your target's 
 bodyguard, walking in on him while he's in the shower, shooting him square between the eyes, and 
 calmly leaving with nobody suspecting a thing. It really makes you feel awesome.
  
  However, even the shorter fun levels can't save this game from hanging itself. The game is certainly 
 difficult, but not for the usual reasons. It's difficult because it was designed so haphazardly. 
 It's hard to know where to go or what to do because the game doesn't point you in any particular 
 direction. It's not a problem in the early levels since they're so small, but in the later levels 
 it's a huge problem. I guarantee that you'll find yourself wandering around constantly trying to 
 figure out what to do next, then either 1) get bored and quit or 2) look at a walkthrough so you 
 can keep playing. Having the player figure things out for themselves is great, but when the game 
 fails at even giving you the slightest idea of what to do, there's something wrong.
  
  The graphics obviously aren't very good. It's been over 6 years since this game was released and 
 they definitely don't hold up. The environments are drab and the characters are blocky and move 
 awkwardly. Contributing to the near impossible difficulty, you just can't see very far. I don't 
 mind some pop up every now and then, but when it doesn't pop up until I'm literally 10 feet away 
 from it, it certainly doesn't help to my advantage. Not only will it make it harder to navigate, 
 you won't be able to see the enemies either. But they'll certainly see you. I died countless times 
 from someone that was standing directly in front of me, but I never saw because of the horrible 
 draw distance. Six years ago, this may have looked great. Nowadays, it's well below average.
  
  It's hard for me to judge the sound because it didn't work half of the time. I read online 
 that this is fairly common now in newer computers, but since it still happened, I have to judge 
 it accordingly. I've played games just as old and older and everything worked perfectly, so why 
 should this game be any different? For the entire game, I heard only a few lines of dialogue. I 
 heard one or two sentences at the beginning of the game, then it crapped out and would randomly 
 pick back up during select cutscenes. It was a huge problem. I can't really praise or criticize 
 the voice acting since I didn't hear enough of it, but judging on the little bit that I did hear, 
 maybe it's better it didn't work. The other aspects of the sound actually worked, but they also 
 might as well not have. The guns sounded weak, the explosions sounded kiddie, and the other various 
 sounds did nothing to heighten the experience.
  
  The sole reason I bought this game was because I bought the trilogy pack consisting of the three 
 sequels and I figured I might as well play the first one before those. I'm glad I did only because 
 my perception of the franchise really can't go anywhere but up. Nothing is polished in this game 
 with the worst offender being the frustrating, poorly designed, and way too difficult gameplay. 
 I can deal with the aged graphics and piss poor sound, but the gameplay is where it matters most 
 when it comes to video games and Hitman: Codename 47 manages to fail on even the simplest tasks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The first in the ongoing Hitman series, Codename 47 was not a very big success. The good graphics 
 and fair sound are the high points of the game but all other aspects are mostly flawed. The game 
 play is bulky and rough making it pretty hard to get accustomed to. Some missions tend to have 
 only one possibility of being accomplished forcing the player to choose a predefined plan of action 
 witch I think takes all the fun out of the game. But even though all this is in fact true Hitman 
 Codename 47 is worth a play if your a fan of strangling people by the neck with a piano wire or 
 blowing their head of with a gun at point blank range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volkeris
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  There is something about being the lubricious Thief, that is difficult to explain. Is it the ambience 
 of being in charge, or the gripping feeling in your gut that appears in times of suspense that 
 creates the ardor of the game? When you enter the game, you begin with a simple training mission 
 that brings to your attention the awareness that is necessary to confront the fictitious foes that 
 are ahead of you. You may become agitated at the difficulty of what lies waiting for you at first, 
 as it takes many computer keys to pin the movements and tricks. But before you know it, your eyes 
 will narrow as you glare through the darkness before you, and your awareness will sharpen. Noises 
 that occur in or out of the game may startle you, breaking the concentration you develop while 
 keeping your ears open during the silence of playing. You are becoming one with the character through 
 all of this as well. Garett, the sly money-loving stranger, will become you in the process. When 
 he get's angry, you boil with hatred. When he is clever, your mouth twists into a grin of pride. 
 Plots and graphics are attractive in this game. The calm colors mix well with the elements of the 
 story, and missions can prove difficult and times, and often impossible. But there are several 
 paths to any destination. You choose which is best for you, and you may succeed, or you may die. 
 Regardless of the possibilites, the game attributes to its own difficulties by allowing you to 
 'save' whenever and wherever you may be in the mission. Before a daring step, remember to save 
 incase your idea fails. Suspense is one-hundred percent guartenteed in Thief: Deadly Shadows . 
 There are plenty of nasty monsters, seeking enemies, and fast suprises that will assure adleast 
 on sharp intake of breath or jolting cry. Even I suprised myself when I heard a slight scream escape 
 my lips when being chased by a willowy creature in the Pagan mines. As far as realism in a video 
 game, I believe it is the closest to life I have ever felt while staring at a moniter. If you are 
 a tolerant player, and enjoy a plot you can sink your teeth into, Theif: Deadly Shadows is your 
 game. It requires skill and teqnique, as well as an enormous amount of patience on your behalf. 
 But if you are devoted to your character, as are most of the people that have played this game, 
 you will find yourself quickly enveloped in it's twisted streets, among people both friend and 
 foe. Before long, you will be calling yourself a Thief with an air of dignity, and more than a 
 little pride. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  So I got this game a couple years back because I like starting a series of games from the beginning 
 before playing the newest game that is out. At that time Contracts was the one that had just come 
 out. So I got this game for like $5 and played it for hours. I came to find out that this game 
 is freaking hard! I thought it was a much more straight forward game, but there is a great amount 
 of strategy involved... which resulted in me playing some missions over and over and over and over. 
 I read the walkthroughs that were out there and their solutions to missions were so out there, 
 I would never had figured it out on my own. Timing is everything in this game. You have to be quick 
 and cautious, or else your f-d for the mission. You might as well start over. The graphics are 
 ok, I played it more for the value of the game. Hitman is a classic, but its not something I would 
 ever want to play over again, and I doubt I will play the rest of the series, as cool and enticing 
 it may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick056
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game ever i dont care what they say . it is highly addictive and fun and 
 a great mind boggler. with its great action scenes and highly addictive game play i would play 
 this game over and over and over again till i die because i love this game and me personally have 
 every single hitman game out ther and have gotten silent assasain on every single mission on every 
 single game because i love HITMAN. the best game ever and forever and ever. And i for sure dont 
 car what anybody says about this reveiw because i mean it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafiqians
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  HItman Codename 47 is one of the best games of its' time. Hitman Codename 47 looks awesome, sounds 
 awesome, plays... good. This game has some new stuff of doing tasks by alternative methods. It's 
 so good, and so well thought out. It's a bit hard, at least people say it's hard, I had no problem 
 finishing the game. It may be hard, I don't know, I don't really think so. The shooting works well, 
 the sound when you shoot is awesome. The blood is satisfying, lot of violence in this game. You'll 
 find yourself strangling people a lot. So if you can handle that, and there than this is a great 
 action adventure shooter. Hitman hs opened new field of gaming and I think it had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 15, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Codename 47 looks awesome, sounds awesome, plays... good. The game has problems, some bugs 
 here and there, but you will be able to get over that because there's so much else to it. It's 
 so good, and so well thought out. It's a bit hard, at least people say it's hard, I had no problem 
 finishing the game. It may be hard, I don't know, I don't really think so. The shooting works well, 
 the sound when you shoot is awesome. The blood is satisfying, lot of violence in this game. You'll 
 find yourself strangling people a lot. So if you can handle that, and if you can get over some 
 bugs here and there than this is a great action adventure shooter. HITMAN ROCKS! 47, we love you! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_path
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  For those of you who enjoys stealth action games and has a fantasy of wanting to be agents and 
 heroes like Gabriel Logan, Sam Fisher, Solid Snake, Lara Croft and many more, you might want to 
 give Hitman: Codename 47 a try. This game has a unique blend of stealth gameplay, dark humors, 
 quick and painless action packed, but also suffers from poor game mechanics.
  
  Hitman: Codename 47 lets you dive into the mind of a character only known as Mr. 47, a bald-headed 
 assassin rumored to have been created by an experiment conducted by an unknown organization. You 
 quest begins in a room which looks like an asylum cell where 47, strapped in his bed, was awakened 
 by a mysterious voice which claims to be his mentor and guardian. The anonymous speaker released 
 47 from his binds and from there 47 followed his instructions in which 47 will be taught to handle 
 weaponry's as well as performing some obstacles. This will be your tutorial. But during the course 
 of his daily routine, 47 killed an asylum employee, changed his clothing and escaped from that 
 hellhole. Instead of sounding the alarm, the mysterious man, who was monitoring 47 at that period 
 of time, chuckled murderously and deliberately let him go.
  
  About a month later, 47 found employment into yet another unknown organization called International 
 Contract Agency aka ICA. It's a dark syndicate where clients would willingly pay the Agency to 
 assassinate a certain person or persons with no questions asked. From there, the Agency gets someone 
 else to do the dirty job, which are called Hitmen, and that someone is 47. As he travels around 
 the world fulfilling his assignments, he realize his targets have some sort of connection with 
 his past in which 47 doesn't remember anymore.
  
  Hitman: C47 has 20 over missions altogether and it takes you to all sorts of places like Hong Kong, 
 Colombia's Tropical Rainforest, Budapest's 5 Star Hotel, etc. Each mission involves you assassinating 
 targets and the method of killing is entirely up to you. You can do it quietly using the fibre 
 wire, knives or silencers without anyone witnessing your actions; or you can pack up your heaviest 
 and best arsenals and start blasting everyone within range.
  
  Like any other good assassin, 47 is equipped with lots of weapons such as silencers, handguns, 
 shotguns, rifles, car bombs and more... even a minigun! In the beginning of each mission you are 
 to select and purchase the weapon of your choice and use them to kill your target by whatever means 
 necessary. You collect more money by successfully completing your objectives but will be deducted 
 if you harm any innocent victims.
  
  The level of difficulty of Hitman is really hard even if you put in easy mode because the enemy 
 AI's are so unpredictable. They are extremely powerful and they intend to perform headshots on 
 you and to make matters worse, there aren't any health packs or first aid kits in the game! It's 
 really brutal, and the most annoying thing is the fact that you can't save your game! After each 
 mission you complete will be saved into your profile page and can be selected back anytime, but 
 it's really crazy the fact you can't save your game during the mission. So my tip is: every step 
 counts! Kill quietly and wisely. There are two ways you can continue after you get killed: either 
 by pressing the space bar which entitles you to resume in a safer spot (But the guards are still 
 on a lookout for you so it's not really convenient) . You might else well restart the mission back 
 from the beginning (Which is the second choice) .
  
  The control scheme is yet another problematic feature because it's not feasible for users to play. 
 Instead of using the standard WSAD keypads, we have to use the numpad option or WXZC to maneuver 
 around. The A and D keys are not for strafing left or right but for turning around. The Z and C 
 keys are for strafing, S is for walking, X is for walking backwards and W is for running. It's 
 really screwy and terrible.
  
  Hitman Codename 47 may be a torturing experience but overall it's a blast for all RPG lovers. The 
 graphics is really great and the music and sound effects are awesome. The voice acting is a bit 
 cheesy here and there but good enough. Some mission really involves you restarting them again and 
 again, so once you manage to complete a stage, it's satisfying.
  
  I admit I got slaughtered by it's poor gameplay and the hard difficulty it gave me but as weird 
 as it sounds, I quite enjoyed it. If you're an RPG fan who's looking for a stealth-based game, 
 chances are you'll be playing Hitman: Codename 47 in no time but if you lack patience and want 
 everything done the easy way, then this game is definitely not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman047m4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  I have being a gamer for a very long time and I have always tried to play different games from 
 genre, consoles, etc; I was a heavy console gamer way before immersing myself with the PC gaming 
 world, and later becoming a definitely PC heavy gamer; I have played a vast number of PC games 
 and honestly each game offered me something different to look and be hook to it, like the first 
 or third person shooters, or real time strategy either historical or not, and many others. I remember 
 that I bought the Hitman Codename 47 game with another game, I think it came together with the 
 second Tomb Raider another great PC title, and I had my doubts about this game at first because 
 I never played a game like this one before, but as soon as I started playing I was totally into 
 the game, and my doubts about the game disappeared, it was a rush seeing the main character waking 
 up on an unknown place and be guided by a mysterious voice, that not only will give some physiological 
 views of live and advices, but also will teach him how to deal with a large number of different 
 weapons; but overall the first thing that shocked me about this game at first was the ability that 
 the character has to change clothes... wow... I don't know to much about gaming history features, 
 and also I haven't played enough games like other gamers, but this was totally new, and I loved 
 it; another thing that I totally loved about this game was the dark mood or vibe of the game for 
 a non-horror game; other features that fascinated me were the recreation of an agency keeping it 
 as real as possible on how the agency contacted you providing info, pictures, videos of your next 
 mission and target, and leaving how to manage the hit up to you making it more real and harder. 
 On the other hand one of the things that I really was upset about this ambitious title was that 
 there were no more ways or variations on how to end up your missions, or that sometimes using a 
 lesser calibre gun like a handgun or a submachine gun, when you shot your opponents more than twice 
 (a little bit more) to take them down, well except if you shoot them on their heads, maybe the 
 designers leave that to emulate that sometimes opponents were using a Kevlar vest or something 
 like it, but other times, you defeated your by shooting at them at their limbs, and seeing how 
 they die after a few rounds, even thought that it sounds contradictory, I loved this one, sometime 
 spend game time, laughing at how many rounds on the legs you could make them fall. Overall, the 
 downfall of the game didn't make me change my mind about it and keep it playing over and over again...4/5... The 
 HITMAN has spoken! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  the great thing in this game that if you will get shoot (and you will) you will see the bullets 
 on your body... thats cool... but the lame grahics and the great gameplay makes hitman: codename 47 
 a great stealth game wich keeps you on the edge of your sit
  
  GRAPHICS: lame... the serroundings look like crap nothing too see actully its all white!!! so in 
 the graphics part the game dosent makes a really big diffrent
  
  SOUND: what sound? you hear pepole talking now and then and shots gets fired... i dont rememmber 
 about a music in the game... because music can ruin the moment!!!
  
  GAMEPLAY: well... that is the jem of the game... the gameplay no question ask a great gameplay that 
 will keep you sweaty in your sit and sticky hands as you progress through the game
  
  anyway this game is fun with bad graphics and no sound... sounds like your type of game? you should 
 buy it... it costs only 10$ if im correct
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 2.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  Hitman is probably one of the biggest wastes of money I've ever spent. The GS review hits the nail 
 on the head with this game, as it is clunky, repetitive, and annoying. With close to no information 
 on how you're supposed to accomplish most of your goals throughout the game, this game lets you 
 try and fail over and over with no hint as to who you're supposed to talk to, or what you're supposed 
 to pick up to progress each mission. If you don't have a guide that someone else has written (whether 
 it be here on GS or a real guidebook) , it's practically impossible to know what course of action 
 will work. On top of that, stealth is the focus of this game, so if you're running around trying 
 to figure out what to do and you run past the wrong people, you get gunned down and have to start 
 all over again. Overall, this game only appeals to people who love to play a game with a guide 
 in their lap and a list of cheats on their computer. Stay away from this game, for all our sakes. 
 It only encourages the makers of this game to make more if you decide to see what I mean . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junypir
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  cos this game is great for it. youve got your stealth option (run up behind someone and slit his 
 throat) and youve got the genocide option (take 'em all out with a big gun) . either way, this game 
 rocks. if you like Splinter Cell, you'll like this one too. i like to choose the stealthy route, 
 so if anyone's up for writing a walkthru, lemme know, cos i still cant get past Say Hello to my 
 Little Friend (a lot harder than it sounds) . but when i finally assassinated lee hong, i got shivers 
 down my spine. this game is like a movie that builds and builds the suspense and when you finally 
 get that last shot in, you almost need a cigarette after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Stealth action games were very popular in 2000 and are popular nowadays so thats why lo Interactive 
 made Hitman.
  
  Gameplay: In this game we play as Agent 47. Hes a contract killer that executes missions for money. 
 47 is not a human, hes a clone made by a crazy scientist. Hitman is bald and his main uniform 
 is black suit with red tie. This suit and also two silver Hardballers (which are his favorite weapons) 
 are his identification. Agent 47 has really cool skills. He uses many weapons like shotguns, a 
 lot of pistols, knives and more. Also Agent 47 uses a fibre wire. It is a wire, a string which 
 is very similar to the string that guitar has. By fibre wire we are able to strangle an enemy without 
 making any noise. The story begins in psychiatric hospital where we have been living and of course 
 we have to run out from this crazy place. We have also a small training in this place. We will 
 know how to use weapons, how to kill, what we have to do to be invisible to our enemy and etc. 
 I said that Hitman is a contract killer cuz he accepts missions from the agency where Diana is 
 a boss. Just like in the movies we have a small laptop and from here Diana is telling us all about 
 our mission, all about our objectives, what we have to do, who we have to kill and etc. By the 
 time we are on a mission we are able to check the electronic map which shows us enemies positions, 
 our main target and other important things. When we finish the mission we can see the missions 
 rating which means if we want to get a Silent Assassin rating and extra weapons then we have to 
 be invisible. Our missions rating depends on how many guys we were killed or if we leaves any 
 trails and of course we cannot kill any civilians. The missions take place around the world. In 
 Romania, jungle, China. As Agent 47 we will have to set up bombs, kill our main targets using sniper 
 rifle and other deadly gadgets. Hitman: Codename 47 offers different layouts so its not a linear 
 game. For example we will have to kill some guy using sniper rifle but we dont have to do this 
 way. We can strangle him by fibre wire for example. There are many ways to kill and to complete 
 our objectives. Also Hitman is able to take weapons from his enemies when they are dead and one 
 of the most important thing of this game is that Hitman can take enemies clothes to be more anonymous 
 and to be unrecognizable. We can also drag dead bodies. The enemy A. I. is really great. They are 
 suspicious when they see you running. They are suspicious when you change clothes, if your enemies 
 recognize you so then they can kill you very quickly cuz they are not stupid, the bad guys are 
 shooting in the head, they set up an alarms and etc. Hitmans moves and the bad guys moves are 
 extremely realistic. All these cool things are making a very good gameplay.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good. The character models, textures, shadows, lighting effects 
 are great. As I said, the character animation is very realistic.
  
  Sound: I dont have any reservations to the sound. Missions have amazing soundtracks. Voice acting 
 is professional.
  
  Overall: Hitman: Codename 47 for Pc is a great game. Missions are interesting, the main character 
 Agent 47 is superb. Hitman series are one of the best stealth action games ever made. You shouldnt 
 miss this game not only that this is the beginning of the series but because it has fantastic gameplay 
 and main character  Agent 47. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Codename 47 was a an awesome game for its time. You play as a man named 47 who is, as we all know 
 a hit -man.
  
  For the time, the game was a one of a kind unique experience where you would have to stalk your 
 target, even having to knock out and take the clothes of a civilian to blend in, and of course 
 hide the body !
  
  The game has many great weapons such as the simple but leathal PIano cord with handles (for easy 
 use) the sniper rifle (for those long distance shots) and the simple berrettas.
  
  all of this must be bought before the mission, and the amount of money you get for doing missions 
 depends on how many innocent people get hurt and how stealthy and quick you were to finish the 
 mission
  
  This system makes for hours of enjoyment and can probably still be found in the bargain bin for 
 10 bucks or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The art of killing; that's a very morbid thing to say (at least when you apply it in real life) , 
 yet that's exactly what makes this game so great. In Hitman: Codename 47, you assume the role of 
 the Hitman, also known as Mr. 47, a genetically engineered clone that's been created with one purpose 
 only: to become the perfect assassin. And by perfect assassin, I don't mean the one that goes shooting 
 everything that stands in front of him, but the one that methodically calculates his every move, 
 and coldly executes them to perfection. No, this isn't a run and gun shooter, it's rather a stealth 
 shooter, that requires a lot of patience (and I really mean a LOT, more on that later) , and a lot 
 of thinking. While this combination will lead to some occasional frustration, for the most part 
 it delivers a thrilling and very rewarding gaming experience.
  
  Like I previously mentioned, this isn't your typical shooter; running and gunning will only serve 
 you so much. While you're free to follow the loudest method of execution in every mission (and 
 it is possible to accomplish the missions rambo-style) , you'll often find out that, just like in 
 real life, drawing unwanted attention, usually leads to laying cold in a body bag. The mark of 
 a true professional assassin is leaving no mark at all, and that's exactly where the real fun lies 
 in this game. You'll want to keep a low profile most of the time, whether it's by wearing a disguise, 
 approaching your objectives in a stealthy manner, or utilizing an alternate method such as poisoning 
 or ambushing your victim. All this leads to moments of great tension in most missions, and you 
 will be forced to think before you take a single step.
  
  Of course, if you're feeling more bold, you have quite an arsenal at your disposal (although you 
 need to buy your weapons, and you won't have any money to access the most powerful weapons early 
 in the game) . This method will likely bring more frustration than enjoyment, since despite being 
 a clone, Mr. 47 isn't superman, and he will go down after a few shots.
  
  While some missions can be relatively short and easy, others will be very long and hard to figure 
 out, and this is where the games' biggest flaw kicks in; there is no in-game save system. If you 
 die, you will either start again at a certain location (sort of like a checkpoint) , or you have 
 the option to restart the mission. The latter is usually the only viable option, since your cover 
 will more than likely be blown up by the time you were killed, and thus, the mission will become 
 a lot harder to finish. It's very likely you'll curse the developers for this design flaw, and 
 while I did get frustrated from having to restart a mission a few times, I feel that having no 
 manual saves added a lot of challenge to the game, since it forced you to be even more careful 
 when executing the missions. It would've been better to give the player the option to have at least 
 a limited amount of saves depending on the difficulty level (something that was implemented in 
 Hitman 2) , but I feel that this flaw is no deal-breaker.
  
  An aspect of the game that really shines is the graphics; while they may not seem cutting edge 
 today, back when the game was released they were truly outstanding. The environments are very well 
 detailed, the locations look alive, the character models are well designed (and it's freaky how 
 much they will stare at you) , and it's certainly going to be no problem at all immersing yourself 
 into the different locations in the game.
  
  The sound on the other hand could've been better. While the soundtracks that will be playing during 
 the missions are very good (there's one specific tune for every major location you're in) , the 
 voice acting is a little lacking. It comes of as goofy at times, and it sounds a little to rigid. 
 This hurts the cutscenes a little bit, but since cutscenes are only few and far in between, it's 
 not going to be something that annoys you too much. Overall the sound is ok, since the music makes 
 up for the poor voice acting.
  
  Depending on how good you are, the game can be sort of long, or relatively short. It's very likely 
 it will take you several tries to complete some of the most difficult missions in the game, so 
 odds are you won't just breeze your way through the game. However, the freedom of executing missions 
 at your will, means that there's plenty of replay value here (I always replayed every mission at 
 least one more time, to find any alternate methods) .
  
  Despite it's minor flaws, and the fact that it's a game that may push your frustration levels to 
 the limit, Hitman: Codename 47 is an excellent game. If you're interested in getting into the Hitman 
 series, I'd recommend you start here. So long as you're a patient gamer, you will enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Dragoon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This is just another one of those games that make you wonder, did gamespot actually play this game? 
 The answer is, I don't know and i don't care. Trust me from experiance, when looking at games only 
 pay attention to the YOU SAY reviews cause there the ones that count. This is a game that was reviewed 
 like Legend of the Dragoon, the critic is totally bogus. This game is really fun and has great 
 graphics, compared to its time. If you like action adventure games that isn't all about button 
 mashing and total annihaltion, youd love this game. This game makes you think outside the box and 
 is really refreshing to play once you had enough with all the button mashing, total annihaltion 
 games *cough*God Of War*cough* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-M-INDIAN18
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wanted to be a Hitman, an assassin who would be hired by people to do some cool and 
 stylish executions of unsuspecting victims around the world, but holding yourself back because 
 of the illegality of it all, then this might just be the game that you are looking for. If you 
 like stealthy games but are tired of the slow nature of game-play of games like Splinter Cell, 
 and wished for a stealthy game with a bit more of action thrown in, then Hitman: Codename 47 will 
 definitely delight you. That is, if you don't mind some of the most frustrating features of this 
 game.
  
  47, a bald and ugly man with a digitally encrypted pin code tattooed onto the back of his head, 
 is the protagonist of the game. One may wonder what kind of a name 47 is, but there's a pretty 
 good and weird reason for it. The game doesn't have a run-of-mill storyline, nor is it the kind 
 of path-breaking story in contention for an Oscar!!! It has a pretty weird (read freaky) story 
 which may just take you by surprise. But sadly, there's not much of it.
  
  The game begins with 47 waking up and finding himself inside a cell, he gets up from the bed he 
 was previously strapped to, and hears someone calling and directing him through the microphone 
 (speakers) . He has no idea about the place or the man calling him. The mysterious voice will guide 
 you through-out this level. You will get into your trademark black-suit, go through the obstacle 
 course, learn close combat and all the other moves that you will be required to perform in this 
 game, and finally escape from the facility. Who could that man be??? And thus begins the adventure.
 
  
  After escaping, you join an agency and become a professional Hitman and travel to various places 
 including Hong Kong, Colombia, Budapest, etc. to do jobs for your agency. There's not much storyline 
 through the next 8-9 missions. You will occasionally get a couple of notes from the victims you 
 assassinated. But there is a twist right at the very end, which I will not ruin for you.
  
  Since the game belongs to the stealth-action genre, you will get to do various cool chores in order 
 to successfully complete the jobs bestowed unto you by the agency. In the very first mission, you 
 will be required to snipe a man from the terrace of a building. And after it's done, you can simply 
 go down, re-arrange the rifle into the case, and coolly walk past by the gang-members of the victim 
 without being suspected, to the extraction point. You will get to detonate a car with victims in 
 it; you will have to infiltrate the victims' headquarters, you will have to disguise as one of 
 them to do a few jobs successfully, and many other such cool things.
  
  You, as 47, will be able to take the clothes of your enemies' dead bodies and then carry on posing 
 as them. You can sneak up on your enemies and strangle them with fibre wire, or you could just 
 slit their throats with a knife which looks really cool. The missions are of a wide variety and 
 different. You will have to rig cars with bombs, snipe, help achieve freedom for a captured spy, 
 go to the Colombian jungle and retrieve artifacts, kill the drug lord, etc. You will also get to 
 kill a man in his underpants by locking him inside a steam bath chamber. But, the game has a few 
 very irritating problems with its game-play.
  
  The grey areas of the game hold it back from being a true classic. The pre-mission menu set-up 
 leads to a weapons page where you will have to buy weapons with whatever money you have. But, the 
 money aspect is useless since you always have loads of them. It would have been fun if we were 
 supposed to use it wisely. The map given to you is also pretty confusing to use, and it doesn't 
 show the enemies or the objective. In one mission, you are supposed to kill a rival gang-member, 
 and then attend the meeting with the rivals posing as him. But, you are not shown in the map the 
 whereabouts of this man (objective) . So, you will have to run all over the map just to locate him, 
 which results in a few failed tries.
  
  The game-play basics also add to the frustration. It's a chore to handle 47's movement. When you 
 move, 47 will snag to the walls, gates, etc. When you click on the lift panel, it won't do anything. 
 Instead, you will first have to right click on it, cycle through the options and left click to 
 make the lift move. It becomes irritating after a while. You can't use the environment to your 
 benefit. The surrounding doesn't add anything to the game-play.
  
  The frustration is also increased by some not-so-great decision-making by the developers. There 
 is no save-system in the game, anywhere. This means that if you spend 30-45 minutes in a level 
 and fail at the last moment, you are screwed for good!!! You will have to start over the level 
 from the beginning. However, you do get a couple of lives per mission, but it is rendered useless 
 by the fact that once your cover has been blown, it becomes very difficult to get another disguise 
 before the enemy see you again. So, the difficult missions of the game may frustrate you to the 
 point of madness!!! You may be stuck in a mission for a few days.
  
  The game's graphics in today's world of next-gen gaming isn't much to write home about. However, 
 it must have been really good during its time. The jungle looks like a jungle, mansion, temple, 
 trains, hospital, hooker, 47, all look good. Each level has a distinct look about it, may it be 
 the Chinese buildings, mansion, hospital or the jungle levels. Weapons, character models, weapon 
 reloading, environment, etc. all look realistic. The animation of you taking down an enemy with 
 fibre-wire looks great. However, the movement looks odd when you are dragging a body.
  
  There's not much background music in this game. And strangely enough, you don't miss it because 
 of the tension of not screwing up the level. You are always so focused in the game, that you don't 
 miss the sounds of music. The guns, choking of you enemies, voice-over acting, all is ok, but not 
 great. Overall, the sound department is just about alright.
  
  The game doesn't score highly on the re-playability scale. There is no reason for you to replay 
 once you have finished the game. There are no unlockables or multiplayer mode to be found here.
 
  
  On the whole, this game is just about passable. If you're looking for a cheap game, then be sure 
 to pick it up. You can play it once and move on in life. There are no lasting moments to be taken 
 from the game. The problems of this game have been fixed in the sequels which you should pick up. 
 And then perhaps, to complete your collection, you can pick this one up too. After all, this comes 
 for really cheap.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The concept of controlling a hitman in a game was new to the world of gaming. Controlling him 
 this way, at least. It was such a good concept.
  The amount of bullet holes you could plug into a guy was just amazing for it's time. But then 
 again, Soldier of Fortune was out and that blew me away on the gore factor.
  The Hotel mission and some of the last missions (where you're with the Southern American tribe 
 or whatever) was really great.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Some of the bugs (without a patch) really make the game unfair. Sometimes you'll have completed 
 a mission and it says you didn't. Other times, a script won't load and you'll be lost in the middle 
 of a difficult mission.
  Not enough Hotel type missions. That mission was just wild.
  Towards the end of the game, the game kind of runs away from the concept a bit. No more city killing; 
 more jungle killing. Loses it's touch.
  
  :Overall:
  I'm not so sure about a 5.2 from GameSpot. They must have been pretty stupid back in the day. 
 This game changed the way I looked at 3rd person games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glenn__searle
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good although it lacks in potential, of course people are going to say its 
 crap because we have much better games out BUT this game is good for its time and can consume some 
 time when your bored and have nothing to do.
  this game is good for its many guns and levels it also has a fairly good story line although i 
 found the other hitman games to be a lot better so ye play this game if u want to relieve some 
 stress by killing baddies sensesly.
  O and to make it even more fun....... ( ( ( ( ( (CHEAT) ) ) ) ) ) !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  i rate it a 10.0 becaase i love this game and i think i rated it right so if you dont like it go 
 play some other game alright because somepeople like alright now ok well i like this game because 
 its just awsome with all the actoin and gameplay or whatever you call it i thought this game was 
 great it really depends on what kind of computer you have to have a high graphical computer to 
 play this game the way you want it to and like i said i love this game i play it all the time so 
 keep it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake289
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  this game started the seris i know hitman 2 was the but this game i swear sold well, this is basicly 
 a short review, u play has a bold (serously!) hitman named codename 47 (doesnt say his real name) and 
 u gotta do missions basicly to assassinate people and this game is hardddd, when this came out it 
 had good grapics their alright now but theyve gotten a bit ugly (considering this game came out 
 years ago) , this game is fun but it can anonny u alot when u die alot u gotta use steath and costumes 
 to win basicly its hard but pretty fun, well if u want this game its very cheap now (saw it in the 
 shop for 4.99!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtColJaxson
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 21, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  I have enjoyed all of the PS2 Hitman games, and when I saw this as a PC only game, I'd thought 
 I'd give it a try. I wish i haden't. 
  
  The controls on this game are horrible, even when i reconfigured them! You cannot turn Agent 47 
 with your mouse, instead you must turn him with the keys... which makes it very awkward to look 
 at a something you can interact with, i. e. a ladder. 
  
  Right when i started playing, i already found many flaws. The first being that a got stuck under 
 a dumpster lid, and the second when i was hiding behind the dumpster... my head was sticking through 
 a bit... and the enemies could see me on the other side! 
  
  The aiming system on this game is alright, but when it comes to any firefight looking around is 
 very awkward and jerky. I am surprised at how bad this game can be at times, because throughout 
 all the other Hitman games for PS2 i have enjoyed them. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but due to the lack of any control in this game, it really doesn't 
 matter. Whats also pretty bad is that when you walk around in your normal suit, everyone starts 
 shooting at you. If i saw a guy walking around in a suit, I wouldn't just assume he was a hitman! 
 
  
  This game is pretty sad, and if you want to play the better hitman games, go play a console version. 
 Controls on the console are great, and graphics as well. Console versions of the game will find 
 you playing levels over and over again just for the fun of it. Many different strategies can be 
 used, and the save system can let you save anywhere!
  
  Don't play this PC version, it puts a bad rep. for this great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasdaqw
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  In this game you take the role of codename 47 and do his first missions as a murderer. You are 
 asked to kill many people and there are more than 1 way to kill each. From the hole game only 3 
 missions are good and you enjoy playing them. All the other missions are terrible. In hitman codename 
 47 the graphics are not bad and this is the only good with the game. 
  It is not recommended, if you want a hitman game then buy/rent hitman 2 or hitman 3. If we compare 
 it with the games in that time we could say that it is just "good", but now with all these new 
 games hitman codename 47 is just "mediocore" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HimHvoHitman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Now years has gone.. And many things have happened.. I'm now reviewing it compared to 2000 games 
 and not 2006. My first impressions of the game made me piss my pants.. Wtf you can strangle a man 
 with a piano wire! And put him to a sewer.. And take his clothes! Thats just awesome.. And yes, 
 the controls are bad but you can simply change it to WSAD mode.. There were so many options and 
 features that you have never had in games before. The graphics were really great to me but with 
 a couple of real graet errors. Gameplay was awesome! Sound.. Yeah the sound is the best of all 
 the Hitman games IMO.. (yes, also SA) .. The replay value was okay but nothing compared to Contracts.. 
 Great gameplay and sound.. Ok graphics and value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_bblade
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  I think this game is good not mediocre. The story is pretty good and the missions are good fun 
 as well. The game also tells you lots about the different guns on the game which is good and you 
 can steal clothes which is fun too. The graphics arnt that good but it is a pretty old game i think 
 it should of scored higher. There is loads of stuff to do like shooting people or taking a sniper 
 case to a roof then shooting somebody in the head. I really think that this is a good game and 
 you should definitely if not buy it defo rent it!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiasr47
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Codename 47 just might the top favourite in my games collection - not the undisputed champion, 
 but definitely a candidate. So: 5.2? Ouch. That hurts. And frankly, I think it's too low. Although 
 I am not about to challenge the Gamespot review. Of course it's ridiculous this guy can pack over 
 ten guns and the ammo going with it in his tailormade suit. And the fact that Chinese gang members 
 accept a man wearing one of there triad suits as one of their own, although he's white, twice their 
 size, has a barcode on his head and speaks english only? I had a good laugh...
  But I think the final judgement is a bit harsh. It's what spin you put on things. For instance: 
 you cannot save in-game. Bad thing? I started off thinking so. I cursed it being killed by a dog 
 - a dog! - and having to start over for the sixtieth time. But in the end, that is why I still 
 vividly remember killing off that Russian arms dealer, completing that jungle mission. And the 
 tremendous feeling of satisfaction going with that. (I actually regretted the in-game saving option 
 in the sequel, 'Silent Assassin')
  It's though, yes, or call it challenging. The story won't win any prizes, no, but it is exciting 
 enough to keep you going, time and time again. Like an action movie. It's not that realistic when 
 it comes to weaponry, no, but the more guns, the more options you've got to get from A to B. A 
 lot of missions offer different approaches for a hit.
  And the control part... well, I did not have any problems with the controls. That's the one part 
 of the Gamespotreview of which I can't see where it is coming from.
  All in all, I tend to think that this game is certainly not unblemished, but that didn't get in 
 the way of fun. Accept for the last level, perhaps, which is really a sloppy job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I was given this game by a guy who somehow couldn't get it to work on his system back in the day. 
 I'm so glad I got it! I installed it right away, and blamo it worked for me!? This game introduced 
 me to the Hitman era. The undercover, and don't blow your cover, or they'll kill you. I got so 
 good at the game (Not very hard to start) I would just run in and kill everyone without hesitating. 
 I knew where everyone was, and there path!... lol. I loved using the sniper rifle to pick off guys 
 from the distance, and watch them look for me. I would run inside shoot a few people dead pick 
 a room, and hide. They never find me! lol. Well the AI wasn't all that great in this game not surprisingly. 
 I would get this game anyway you can. It's just fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Codename 47 can be fun sometimes but it can get someone very frustrating and that the glitches 
 in the game can get annoying. But hey hitman can be a fun game, I mean it is challenging and it 
 does have a ok story into it. But man some missions in the game can be just plain hard. I mean 
 the one mission to assassinate the drug dealer is near impossible. You will see once you go and 
 play the game. But anyways some missions can be fun. I mean sometimes I don't listen to the missions 
 and I just go and have some fun. This game can get you frustrated though, because you can't save 
 until you beat the mission and some of the missions are like a half hour or maybe an hour perhaps. 
 Like once you play like 1 hour on a mission and all of a sudden someone shoots you in the head 
 and you die.... you will be very frustrated. All I do to get my frustration out is to kill everyone 
 I see in site in this game. It works too. Right now this game is only like $3 so hey why not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Hitman, is a encouraging game for those that have to handle the stresses of the normal day. 
  
  You wake up in a insane asylum. You do your basic Training to get your barings then you start 
 the real work. Killer for hire, The Atmosphere, dialog, game play and the Actual storyline. Was 
 very good in my opinion. 
  
  It makes you believe in the story and it tests your own skills at Stealth or mass murder. Take 
 your pick.
  
  If you had a bad day at work then make use of the cheats for this game and go on the killing frenzy. 
 I can recomend the Chinese Resturant and the Hotel. They are really good for putting on God1 then 
 going around with a pistol or sniper rifle and just killing everyone and seeing the blood spray 
 on the wall. hehe. Good fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  I knew the makers of Hitman were on to something when I found myself replaying missions again and 
 again despite their difficulty. 
  
  Now that three adventures of '47' have been released and a fourth on the way, it's hard to recommend 
 the baldie's inaugural outing, mainly because of the lack of saves. 
  Hitman is a realistic game. Not in the way characters deal/recieve damage, but more in the universe 
 it's set in. Were you to try and assassinate a police chief in a residential area with dozens of 
 cops around, it'd probably be as difficult to do as in Hitman. This is where the lack of saves 
 becomes painfully apparent. The first few missions start out open ended, giving you several paths 
 to victory, although there is usually a "correct" way that will give you less trouble but demands 
 planning, timing, and usually a disguise of some sort. You'll find yourself replaying missions 
 to figure out when you have to be where to do what, only to get caught at the next such 'junction' 
 and start again. For example, in one mission you have to make it through some locked gates. By 
 stealing a disguise you can trick the guards at the gates to let you through, but *only* if you 
 are trailing another guard that is passing through the gate at the same time. How do you find this 
 out? Probably by walking up, disguised, to the guards on your first attempt and getting multiple 
 head perforations. Restart. Most of the later missions play this way.
  So why is this game fun? It's the thrills of knowing that things can go wrong at any moment and 
 the immersion in the game world, coupled with nice effects like the swaying of leaves. 
  Some of the missions of this game have been 'remade' in the Hitman: Contracts game, so there aren't 
 many reasons to revisit this one. Granted, there are a few well crafted levels and even the ones 
 that have been given a new paint job work well in their original form. However this is a game mainly 
 for the crowd that plays for Silent Assassin ratings and at the highest difficulty. 
  Be prepared to restart often and don't worry about pulling out the big guns if everything goes 
 wrong, as there are no rewards for completing missions with aggression/stealth as in the newer 
 games. 
  
  It's about getting the job done. Happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is the first of the (what will be) Hitman Quadrilogy and it was an odd start. There is no 
 real story to this game other than you escaped from a mental institution and now carry out operations 
 (normally assassinations) for an agency called.... well Agency. Along the way you find out about 
 your hitman's secret. The gameplay is standard but is not really that easy to play on the PC. The 
 graphics are very good but in some ways it looks like they tried to concentrate on the graphics 
 too much rather than the actual game. The sounds are good but through out the game it all starts 
 sounding too common. There is a game here to be played as long as you can be bothered to play it 
 all the way through. This game is either loved or hated there is no in between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HHKev84
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Groundbreaking game play, stunning visuals, open-endedness, and a mediocre storyline add depth 
 to this game that not many others are capable of doing. The controls are solid as they can be, 
 allowing for fluid movement and actions, a rare find among games now. Intuitive, not much of a 
 learning curve needed for play, simplistic training level gives a feel for the game but doesnt 
 give anything away. The premise of the game is quite simple: you play as a protagonist that some 
 might view as an antagonist, a "dark hero". The idea that you're a man who's killing people on 
 contract for money hasn't been done before. The days of the penniless hero or heroine are gone, 
 the protagonist's choices revolve around money. One of the most alluring themes to this game are 
 that you can control the hitman in any way you want. Kill nobody but your target, just "enemies", 
 or go crazy on everyone and everything in a mission. It makes for immersive game play and appropriate 
 penalties are applied.
  The visuals are amazing, great graphics and good lighting effects. The game isn't washed out or 
 dark, it fits in with the atmosphere. The story is alright, just vague throughout, where not much 
 information is given to the hitman's background besides the fact he is the product of a scientific 
 experiment. Almost all questions are answered at the end, making most of the game an enigma. Loosely 
 held together, the story punches along and makes good work of the mission, though one in particular 
 seems out of place.
  One might say the jungle mission is slightly off, not being the traditional city-style atmosphere 
 that carries the rest of the game. Detaching it slightly from the story, it could have been set 
 in a South American city, small town, or whatnot to keep the cultural feel but not loose the roots.
 
  The open-endedness is last. When I play a game, I don't want to be playing as one single entity 
 on one single mission, but to be able to make judgments based on my real time personality. There 
 are several different ways to complete an objective, but they stay pretty much the same. Either 
 poison or shoot, run this way or that. Not exactly OPEN ended, but allowing for a little breathing 
 room from the standards. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coylez5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the very best games of it's time. I liked the unique storyline of Codename 
 47, and his abilities to be stealthy, and undetected, and cunning at the same time. Eidos Interactive 
 have made a gem of a Hitman, and the series as a whole. GameSpot were pretty harsh in their ratings 
 of the Hitman Codename 47, due to the fact that it had a very good storyline, and unique at the 
 same time. I just hope the new Hitman: Blood Money will be as good, or more better than the other 
 Hitman games in the series. - CoYLeZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 28, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  The first thing i wanna say is that, I'm proud about my country making such a good game!
  Hitman really shows a new and amazing type of gameplay, that hopefully wouldn't be missed. I've 
 played Hitman 2 and 3, but still I think that C47 is the best in the series.
  
  Gameplay: I just cant get enough of it. Hitman has really revealed something new, different, revolutionary 
 and amazing type of gameplay!
  
  Graphics: The games graphics is nothing to celebrate about. They kinda suck. And that's sad.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is nothing special. I really don't know what to say there.
  
  Value: Since it's a old game, it's not very expensive. But the price is worth the game.
  
  
 Hitman Codename 47 can be recommended to everyone who loves a good shooting, stealth game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 14, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for 10 bucks after playing Hitman 2: Silent Assassin. As would be expected, 
 Hitman (this game) isn't quite as good. 
  
  In Hitman, you wake up with no idea where you are, to be tested on whether you are good enough 
 to BE a hitman. This is just a tutorial, but it sets up the game quite well. Afterwards you are 
 sent on numerous missions to assassinate someone, steal, or bomb cars, etc... It's quite fun for 
 most of the missions, but most of the time it will be Trial and Error. 
  
  This leads to one of the most annoying things about this game. You can't save. I don't think I 
 need to explain how annoying that is. If you can get over that though, there's great fun to be 
 had in Hitman: Codename 47. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 31, 2004 1:52 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Codename 47 sets the player up as an assassin, hence the subject matter may be a little 
 gruesome for some; furthermore, its grueling save system  or lack thereof  can make this a very 
 unpleasant experience. However, if one can overcome these obstacles, one may find a unique and 
 challenging game. 
  
  Hitman impresses with fantastic graphics coupled with a fabulous soundtrack. Its story is suggestive 
 of a B-grade film replete with over the top scenes inspired by Hong Kong style action, it even 
 pays homage to the film, Scarface. However, it sometimes goes a bit too far and seems a little 
 too cheesy. But on the other hand, it may make sense due to the nature of the game as it sets up 
 some interesting scenarios for Agent 47 to perform his executions. Some of them can be pretty 
 gruesome especially when using the infamous piano wire. There is a good arsenal of real world weapons 
 available through a purchasing system, and some can be found along the way, such as the incredibly 
 fun mini-gun. The combat itself is a little frustrating, but luckily there is a patch* which includes 
 a slow-motion option which is welcomed in some of the games intense combat scenes. Moreover, 
 one can avoid a lot of fighting with patience and finding the right disguise. Though, sometimes 
 it may feel a little silly when you are the only white guy wearing a triads uniform and can walk 
 around the gangs headquarters unnoticed.
  
  Without a save system, many gamers probably could not get through this game, or had to undergo 
 a series of trial and error progressions. But if one has patience, and is skillful, one may find 
 a diamond in the rough here; this definitely will be a hit or miss with most.
  
  *note  the review and score are reflective of the patched version.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
