-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hitman: Blood Money
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hitman4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Open-ended stealth action gameplay lets you sneak or run and gun.
 Beautifully crafted mission set pieces seem appropriately big and complex.
 Large variety of realistic weapons, but they're not the only way to do the job.
 Good replay value for a single-player-only game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Non-player characters sometimes behave unrealistically, especially in combat.
 Many of the series' minor cosmetic problems haven't been fixed.
 New notoriety system feels half-baked.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 30, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.2, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 5,336 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Io Interactive
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     May 30, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the underlying stealth action is mostly unchanged from the previous Hitman games, a diverse 
 sequence of imaginative scenarios gives Blood Money its own fair share of violent thrills. 

 
  The bald-headed contract killer known only as 47 is in good form, primed and ready for more work 
 in the latest installment in the dark, stylish Hitman series. Though very similar to the last two 
 games in the series, the open-ended stealth action gameplay offered by Hitman: Blood Money is still 
 just about as tensely exciting as ever. A few new twists to the formula, an intriguing story, and 
 a memorably diverse, cinematic sequence of missions further make Blood Money worth it.  

          More bad people in high places need to be murdered in Hitman: Blood Money.     

  This 
 is the fourth game in the Hitman series, but previous experience with the past games isn't assumed 
 or required. In fact, you'll probably be more impressed with the game if you've never played one 
 of these before. Returning players will be in for a comfortably familiar experience. The previous 
 games' stories are alluded to during the course of this one, in which 47 discovers that he and 
 his employer are being threatened by some other mysterious agency. He'll learn more of the rival 
 agency's motives as he completes his own jobs, all leading up to a surprising and climactic conclusion. 
 The starting mission leads you by the nose through one of 47's typical assignments -- to eliminate 
 a shady theme park operator, whose negligence once cost the lives of many innocent people. This 
 man, called the Swing King, even entered the drug business in the wake of his theme park's collapse. 
 47's employer has asked that a photo of a deceased loved one be the last image that the crook ever 
 sees... but when you finally reach him, he's just this sad worm of a man who grovels at 47's feet. 
 Despite the number of armed thugs you'll need to get through before putting the Swing King out 
 of his misery, this mission is easy, provided you follow the step-by-step instructions you're given. 
 Subsequent missions are substantially tougher and less linear, but this first one still is representative 
 of the types of moody, affecting scenarios you'll encounter in the game.  

  There are more than a dozen missions in all, and most of them are set somewhere in the United States, 
 such as a Mardi Gras celebration in New Orleans, an Egyptian-themed Las Vegas casino, a rehab clinic 
 in Northern California, a stately riverboat traveling the Mississippi, a posh Los Angeles suburb, 
 and more. The game does a great job of realizing each of these different settings, making them 
 feel appropriately large, complex, and alive. Mardi Gras is particularly impressive, its streets 
 jam-packed with people partying. All of these places tend to be filled with armed guards as well 
 as civilians, so you'll need to exercise caution in order to take out your targets and escape undetected. 
 However, if you slip up (or deliberately blow your cover) , you can always try to shoot your way 
 out. As in the previous games, Hitman: Blood Money rewards stealth and careful planning, but if 
 you want to try to run and gun your way through the levels, you have that option. You can instantly 
 switch from the default behind-the-back perspective to a first-person viewpoint if you prefer, 
 and the game lets you use a whole bunch of different, realistically modeled real-world pistols, 
 rifles, and submachine guns against your enemies. Of course, it's possible to finish most missions 
 in Hitman: Blood Money without squeezing off a single round, if you're careful and observant.  
 

          Codename 47 is once again in the starring role, but the game's beautiful environments steal 
 the show.     

  You don't need to shoot your victims, because you have access to poisons, explosives, knives, and 
 other means. In many cases it's possible to avoid getting blood on your hands altogether, by arranging 
 an accident for your target -- say, by causing something very heavy to drop on his head. Figuring 
 out these trickier, cleaner kills is naturally gratifying, and it also tends to earn you a higher 
 ranking (and more money) once you've escaped and your mission is accomplished. As in the previous 
 games, planning your strike is easy thanks to a GPS-style real-time map that's accessible at the 
 touch of a button, which shows you all other characters in the vicinity at the normal difficulty 
 setting, including your targets. Tougher settings show you fewer characters on the map, make enemies 
 more lethal, and also limit your ability to save your progress during a mission. Even so, between 
 the map, your objectives list, and the ability to purchase more intel if you need it, even the 
 most intimidating missions become solvable. It helps that 47 is much tougher than an average man, 
 and can withstand a lot of gunshot wounds before finally succumbing in a red-tinged, slow-motion 
 haze.  

  As in the previous games, your enemies' artificial intelligence unfortunately doesn't hold up to 
 close scrutiny, but at least it puts on a good show if you don't start messing around. When you're 
 just observing, you'll find that the AI in Blood Money does a convincing job. You'll see characters 
 chatting or lounging about, while guards casually patrol the premises. Someone might stop for a 
 bathroom break or go outside for a smoke, not realizing the danger of splitting off from the crowd. 
     

  If you resort to shooting your way through a mission, you'll find that your enemies will stand 
 a chance of beating you only through sheer numbers. They'll recklessly come running to their deaths 
 if you wait for them around a corner or in some other type of choke point, and they're easily killed 
 if you aim for the head. Since self-preservation isn't important to any gun-wielding assailants 
 in the game, it makes their deaths seem unrealistic and inconsequential, in contrast to the game's 
 fairly serious (though sometimes darkly humorous) tone. Other less significant issues with the 
 previous Hitman games also carry over to Blood Money. For instance, 47 is still a master of disguise, 
 capable of wearing almost any slain foe's outfit, which helps him infiltrate mission areas. But 
 changing clothes still looks as jarring as ever, with 47 suddenly appearing in the new uniform, 
 while the old one magically appears in a neatly folded bundle at his feet.  

          Disguising yourself in the clothes of your victims is often the best way to get close to 
 your target. Or targets.     

  Those who have been keeping up with the series will find that the gameplay changes in Hitman: Blood 
 Money are minor, occurring mostly in between missions rather than during them. At the normal difficulty 
 setting and above, you gain notoriety from one mission to the next by completing your objective 
 sloppily -- namely, by leaving behind a trail of corpses. Your notoriety can make you easier to detect 
 in the next mission, though by paying an affordable fee in between missions, you can reduce your 
 notoriety back down to nothing. So this turns out to be a negligible aspect of play, but having 
 some sort of continuity between missions still helps the game. The money you earn from each contract 
 can also be used to buy new equipment and customize your main weapons, outfitting them with larger 
 clips, laser sights, scopes, silencers, and more. Another nice touch, at least on first impression, 
 is that after each assignment, you get to see a newspaper cover story describing what happened 
 in fairly exacting detail. These dynamically generated newspaper headlines turn out to be pretty 
 predictable after a while, yet they're still a clever way of giving you feedback about how you 
 performed in a given mission. During missions, you may now do such things as hide in closets to 
 ambush your foes, use enemies as human shields, throw knives and other sharp objects, steal surveillance 
 footage of your criminal deeds, and stash bodies in dumpsters or other large bins. But these aren't 
 key additions, since you can go through the entire game without doing any of this stuff. Some missions, 
 especially Mardi Gras, are much more crowded than any of 47's previous assignments, but the crowds 
 are mostly for show.  

  The missions must be played through in a linear order, but between the game's ranking system, its 
 multiple difficulty settings, and the open-ended design of each individual mission, there's good 
 incentive to play through the game more than once. While it's possible to rush through some missions 
 in just a matter of minutes if you know what you're doing, most of them should take you closer 
 to an hour the first time through.  

  The Hitman series is no stranger to the PC, Xbox, and PlayStation 2. Blood Money is available for 
 all of these platforms, as well as the Xbox 360. Each version of the game is identical in terms 
 of content and structure, so the differences are technical in nature. As such, the Xbox 360 version 
 is most impressive, since it features the best combination of sharp visuals and smooth frame rates. 
 The PC version may look comparably as good on a fast system, while the Xbox and PS2 versions still 
 appear quite attractive despite running on dated hardware. These console versions both support 
 progressive-scan displays. Controls are similarly as good across the board, and the game handles 
 about as well when played with a gamepad as with the stock mouse-and-keyboard setup for the PC 
 (though inventory management feels a bit clunkier on the PC) . The only other platform-specific 
 difference that stands out is that the Xbox 360 version includes some unlockable achievements that 
 reward you for playing through the game at successively higher difficulty levels and for finishing 
 missions with top rankings. But it's also the most expensive.  

          This may be another routine assignment for 47, but for all practical purposes, that's a 
 good thing.     

  Part of what's made the Hitman series so well liked is its distinct sense of style, which is unmistakably 
 present in this latest episode. Another great soundtrack from series composer Jesper Kyd effectively 
 sets the tone with a combination of choral tracks and downtempo electronic music. Realistic sound 
 effects and generally good voice acting round out the audio. Some excellent atmospheric lighting 
 and subtle animations, as when 47 hides a kitchen knife behind his back while approaching an unsuspecting 
 victim, further add to the ambience. Enemies shot dead still die the same rag-doll deaths as they 
 have since the original Hitman game, and you'll spot some repetition in the civilians and guards 
 roaming each area. Yet the different mission areas in Blood Money definitely capture the overall 
 look and feel they're supposed to. So in turn, when you successfully complete an assignment in 
 one of these ominous areas, chances are you'll feel a sense of grim satisfaction, having experienced 
 Hitman's potent formula again -- or maybe for the first time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (296 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: philaso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:15 am PT
Review:  I started the first on a recommendation from an English friend (he actually gave me the game while 
 I was in England) and I was skeptical. But that was quickly replaced by interest, then awe. Surely 
 it couldn't be this good? My enjoyment of the first led me to the others, each getting successively 
 better until Blood Money. I am writing this quite awhile after playing, but it is still (and will 
 ever be) fresh in my mind. It rates up there with Max Payne and Far Cry, but achieves a different 
 tone all together. Blood Money is one of the best games I've ever played, because I've never played 
 anything quite like it. It gripped me as soon as the opening starts to play Ave Maria sung by a 
 male soprano (Vienna boys choir? Welsh?) . Immediate goosebumps, if you know the previous games, 
 especially "Silent Assasin". The only thing they had to do is improve the graphics, which they 
 did, and they could keep on drilling out story lines and making these games. It's like Half Life 
 2: Keep them coming baby, there will always be one here to play it! Over-all, an excellent game. 
 Agent 47 is smoother than Curtis Mayfield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Blood Money is a classic in my book. It takes the tired and true hitman game mechanics and updates 
 them into 2006. Tracking and killing a contract in big levels with great AI and atmosphere never 
 gets old. The rush of garroting a target from the darkness is awesome. The graphics are quite good 
 for the time period, and the sound design is superb. It's very well voice acted, and Jasper Kyd's 
 soundtrack is superb. What really shines in the game is the level design. Blood Money contains 
 some of the most creative, varied and impressive levels I've ever seen, which lend themselves to 
 countless possibilities in pulling off kills. That and the surprisingly good AI which reacts to 
 and changes strategy on the fly make for a great gameplay experience. The customizable weapons 
 are nice, but all you really need to beat missions are your trusty syringes garrote wire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: encarvlucas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Great game for starters and brilliant game for hit man fans. With great improvements in the weapon 
 department. Also new melee attacks as you can knock-out people with punches. The graphics still 
 very cool with great lighting and music. Plus a notoriety system that if you are too noticeable 
 on a level will come back to hunt you in other levels. The maps are now bigger and beautiful with 
 some cool realistic features. It's only turn-off about the game are some minor visual bugs sometimes 
 when you use he fiber-wire. Otherwise it's an awesome game and i can't wait for the next one. 
 
  * *
  * **
  * * ***
  ** * ****
  *** ** *****
  **** *** ******
  ***** ******
  ***** *****
  **** ****
  *** ***
  ** ** *
  *** *** **
  ***** ***** ***
  * ***** ***** 
 ***** 
  ** ****** ****** ******
  *** ******* ******* ********
  ***** ******** ******** **********
  ********* ********** ********* ************
  ************************* 
 ************************
  ************************ ***********************
  ********** ********* ******* *******
  ******** ******** ****** *****
  ****** ******* ***** 
 ***
  **** ****** **** **
  *** ***** *** *
  ** **** **
  * *** *
  **
  *
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a great stealth/action game with an excellent level design and an excellent 
 presentation that made me feel like i was an professional assassin, something that no game achieved 
 for me, and keeps you playing it and playing it until you don't find anything more fun to do on 
 the game, which is far over than finishing it, i mean, even when you finish it, you'll still keep 
 playing it, so that's almost endless hours of gameplay..
  
  So, lets do this straight, a review is a review..
  
  Presentation - Since inserting the disk 
 and installing the game, until i started playing it, i got stuck witch an excellent presentation 
 that the game offered, it got well designed and organized menus, from the main menu, to the briefing 
 and mission status ones. I found the story somewhat dark and confusing, but nonetheless. i found 
 it interesting; so, overall, the game has an excellent presentation. 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is great, well designed and balanced, where stealth elements are present 
 without leaving the action of a game that lets you use a great arsenal of modern weapons, where 
 you can also customize your agency weapons from pistols to a Sniper Rifle, with nice accessories 
 like laser pointers, silencers, to scopes and extended magazines. The game is all about killing 
 or assassinate many targets that are living persons appointed by your agency, the ICA (International 
 Contracts Agency) . Something in the game that boosts the gameplay and make assassinate your targets 
 so great and fun is the excellent level design that comes in-game, where you can kill people from 
 overcrowded streets, to luxury suburbans and casino hotels; other very cool feature is the ability 
 that Agent 47 has, is disguiseing as any worker that wanders around the zone such as security agents, 
 cleaners, among others, because you won't always assassinate a target on a fancy suit, and when 
 you dress as a key worker of the crime scene it gives you certain advantages like reaching "staff 
 only" zones, and any other areas. AI scripting is really good, where civilians, police officers, 
 and targets behave like they have to behave, they may become suspicious about you and the place 
 where they are, they can shoot, eat, whatever, but they are greatly scripted. Also is a game that 
 lets you play it on 3rd person or 1st person perspective, so the camera is greatly centered on 
 the details and the action.
  
  Single-Player experience - The story mode is everything the game has to offer, which lets you play 
 more than 10 missions, don't remember how many, but the story mode is well designed with a lot 
 of lenght depending on which difficulty level you play, and rewards you with in-game currency that 
 lets you spend it on upgrading your arsenal of weapons, so is a great single-player experience 
 with some replayablity, but thats depending on you
  
  Graphics or Visuals - This game is well done visually, comes with nicely detailed textures from 
 characters to guns and locations, and nice post-process effects, i didn't find anything wrong with 
 its presentation visually, so is all greatly done.
  
  Audio - The game sounds good, from conversations, to the sounds of the ambient and firing guns.
 
  
  Quality/Performance - I played all the stoyr mode with no struggles, i got a few crashes, but nothing 
 that ruined the game, so don't worry, the game runs flawlessly if you meet all the requirements 
 as a PC game.
  
  Overall - I found Hitman Blood Money really great and thrilling from bottom to top, and left me 
 wanting for more, so i waiting, or more better to say, expecting another sequel from this amazing 
 game to come
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yang_fox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Confesso que gosto imenso de jogos estilo stealth. Splinter Cell, Metal Gear Solid, Hitman so 
 um dos jogos que destacam nesse gnero.
  Em Blood Money, a produtora implementou mais elementos  jogabilidade tornando-a ainda mais slida. 
 Agora o 'Agent 47' pode provocar acidentes, e o jogo como que obriga o jogador a jogar de uma 
 maneira mais silenciosa. Cada contracto  um determinado valor, e tal pode diminuir se o jogador 
 exectar a misso de maneira violenta. Outras das novas implementaes  a notoriedade do 47. 
 Agora se o jogador for visto por muitas testemunhas, ser apanhado nas cmaras de vigilncia, a sua 
 fama aumenta o que faz com que futuras misses sejam mais dficeis, devido  mais NPC reconhecerem 
 o assassino careca.
  A histria foi muito bem construda, em forma de flashbacks, desvendado um plano sinistro por detrs 
 da caa ao Mr.47, e at h possiblidade do jogador ter diferentes finais.
  O som  outro factor que sempre foi muito forte no jogo, sincronizando msicas gticas com o ambiente 
 macabro que acompanha o jogo.
  Resumindo, se gostares de jogos que tenham uma componente aco forte, juntando ao trabalho mental, ao 
 som envolvente, jogabilidade avanada e intuitiva, ento Hitman Blood Money  o jogo ideal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiLiPpLaYeR
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  The greatest thing in this game is its game-play. YOU can spend hours playing it and you don't get 
 bored. Each mission is unique and offers a lot of possibilities. I think that this game is a perfect 
 simulation for real killers :) , and that is not so cool. Hitman Blood Money is for everyone, even 
 if you don't like to think logically however the satisfaction is guaranteed. There is a lot of different 
 hints and cruel ways to pass each mission, the atmosphere of being a killer is done perfectly. The 
 weapons are great, the new thing is that you can upgrade hitman's basic guns. The engine of the game 
 is great and i hope that we will see some more Hitman from Eidos. I would like to play in a Hitman 
 game whit the same engine as in Blood Money but with some missions that are more serious, creepy 
 and atmospheric. Kids DON"T PLAY THIS GAME !!! It will make you a bad man :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihipihi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  I have played all the hitman games yet, but blood money is my favourite one. Due to next reasons:
 
  
  Graphics!
  Graphics are really beautiful. Sometimes you ask yourself, is this really directx 9? The enviroment 
 is great. Highly detailed, interactive, great texturing....
  Also the effects are great. Explosions, gunshots, strangling [:) ] , everything looks, and sounds 
 the way it should.
  
  But a game isnt made just with graphics. So the next thing is probably gameplay.
  Terrific. The 
 best gameplay I know. The key bindings are just right, one for dropping (throwing items) , one picking 
 up items, one for action. It really fits into what a hitman should do. Cover his tracks. The shooting/aiming 
 is also great. if you crouch, you are more accurate, and thing like that really make it feel more 
 realistic.
  Also, the camera is special for hitman games. You can look in one direction, but the character 
 can walk into any, even if you hold the mice. Its more like an PS controlling. If you aim, the 
 character will look where you are looking, of course.
  
  My favorite part of it is the custom-upgrading for weapons. You can add 14 upgrades to just a pistol! 
 It then has a laser, aiming module with a scope attached, extended cartridge, and even bullets 
 can be different.
  You dont have this kind of weapon customizing in any of the games I know. So this is what it makes 
 it unique and perfect.
  
  Straight 10. But, you shouldn't take my score as the really subjective one. Because Im a fan: P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAZMISTAR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so Hitman: Codename 47 was, well... rubbish. Silent Assassin was good, Contracts was ace 
 and now just yesterday I got... Hitman: Blood Money. Now, I thought the game would not be very 
 good. However I was mistaken. Hitman Contracts had many features missing, mainly being able to 
 interact more with your surroundings, for example:
  You have just used the fibre wire to take out an enemy on the balcony. You then check your map 
 and you see a guard heading up in the lift. On the balcony is a large box. You take the body and 
 "dispose" of it in the box. You close the lid and stand there innocently as the guard walks by. 
 You then whip out your silenced Silverballer and pop him in the head. You drag him to the balcony 
 and are given the option of throwing him over. You do so, watching his lifeless corpe slam into 
 the street 600ft below. You smile, holster your gun, and walk away.
  If you didn't really get that, I'll expalain it in short:
  You can throw bodies over balconies, 
 hide them in boxes (or large refridgerators, bins and other such things) or alternitavely, you 
 can simply leave the body to be discovered. Now I am going to tell you another feature (in story 
 form) . 
  You walk round the corner, towards the targets house. The target, namely a VIP by the name of Vinnie 
 "Slugga" Sinistra, is throwing a party, so as with any good party, catering has been ordered. You 
 survey the street. You see a garbage truck, a catering van and an open manhole with barricades 
 around it. The catering assistant comes out of the house, and goes round the corner to pleasure 
 himself with a cigarette. As he smokes, he is unaware that he is being sneaked upon. Suddenly, 
 he feels a jab in his neck and goes limp. It was a syringe full of sedative. You take his clothes 
 and hurry over to the catering van. You find a catering tray with a lid on. You open the lid and 
 peer inside. The contents is doughnuts, a cake and some soda. You take 5 small charges, each with 
 the power to blow a mans' arm off, and conceal them inside the cake. You close the lid and carry 
 the box to the door. Your person is searched by the FBI Agents guarding the door, and you are hurried 
 through. You carry the box to the target in the garden, who is sitting with his wife. You notice 
 she has some important microfilm on a necklass. Microfilm that you have been contracted to steal. 
 You place the box between them and quickly leave. When no one is looking you sneak upstairs, which 
 is deserted. You look through a window and see Vinnie and his wife open the box. You pull out a 
 detonator. Moments later, there are two dead people outside. All the FBI but one rush to see what 
 the commotion is, and you take the opportunity to knock him out and hide him in a broom cupboard. 
 You take his suit and rush outside. You run over to the wife and pretend to examine her. You subtely 
 take her necklass and run off, saying you will call the hospital. This is your opportunity to run. 
 Just don't forget to pick up your trademark suit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  playing catch up with some of our reviews. played this one when it came out. great game, solid.
 
  
  music is fantastic, not just the quality, but it really encapsulates the spirit of the game. sharp, 
 edgy, suspenseful. voice acting is top notch.
  
  graphics are great. not sure why every character in the game is totally ripped and has a tree trunk 
 neck, but whatever. lighting is wonderful, helps set the mood for each hit flawlessly.
  
  controls are great, very workable on a keyboard.
  
  gameplay is exactly what one would expect 
 from the hitman franchise. there's always a couple ways to go about making a hit. plenty of room 
 for experimenting. think this time around the path to becoming a silent assassin is much more intuitive. 
 some of the maps are more difficult than others, but on the whole much less rigid as some of the 
 previous games in the series. we suppose one could say that it's less challenging in that respect, 
 but on the highest difficulty it's still no picnic.
  
  the story is a little less interesting this time around. there are other characters in the game, 
 but they are really only ever hinted at. other professional hitmen. on at least two occasions it 
 becomes necessary for 47 to get them. we like that this game didn't have to depend on the other 
 clone plot device. 
  
  the notoriety mechanic was a novel idea. the more wrecklessly open 47 is the more difficult it 
 will be for him to complete the following missions. the trouble with that mechanic is that if one 
 is always careful there's nothing to worry about.
  
  the ability to use "accidents" to dispatch 47's targets is long overdue. adds a bit more replayability 
 to the game. not a whole lot, dead is still dead, but it's still a source of amusement. getting 
 the ability to hide a body indefinitely by sticking them in a crate or freezer or dumpster is a 
 lifesaver. in the previous games if 47 drugged someone it became a race against the clock before 
 they woke up and raised the alert. this is a lot more flexible and ultimately that's a blessing.
 
  
  there's always room for improvement, but this game is definitely a step forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpph
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  as is obvious, in hitman blood money you play as the bald, cold hearted killer agent 47.
  what everyone should know is that this game is NOT revolutionary and does not change the fundamental 
 gameplay significantly from any of the other hitman games.
  that is not to say it is not well worth buying if you are a fan of the other hitman games. while 
 they offer you 5 0r 6 choices, blood money offers you 20. it is not as simple as choosing guns 
 blazing style of sneaky. there are simply SO MANY WAYS in which to do either of these, in particular 
 the latter.
  just as an example if you have got yourself in the situation where a target is right in front of 
 you, you can:
  throw a knife (or cleaver, or stiletto) , strangle them, poison them, use hand to hand combat, shoot 
 them, disarm them, push them down stairs or off a balcony, place a bomb in their food, the list 
 simply goes on. all of these if used right can still achieve silent assassin rating, which allows 
 free rein within whichever rating you are aiming for.
  
  blood money introduces three new things:
  a notoriety system, which depending on how many people 
 saw you in the last mission, means you will be easier to recognise in the next, however you can 
 lower your rating by bribing the police etc. personally (although i think this feeling is widespread) 
 i found it to be a bit of a gimmick, it never affected my game.
  customisable weapons:
  with the money you earn from assassinations, you can use it to upgrade certain weapons like the 
 silverballers or sniper rifle, getting silencers, different types of ammo, scopes etc. this is 
 certainly not a gimmick and hugely affects the game. it gives great satisfaction to carefully select 
 what upgrades you need for your budget and your playstyle.
  (personally i love sniping people from longe range with the silenced w2000, but again, that's just 
 my way, and there are a billion others)
  accidents: 
  there is always some option of making an assassination look like an accident, such as placing a 
 bomb on a chandelier cable and making it look like it just fell on them.
  intel:
  during a mission, you can buy intel on a mission for 3,500. this does not directly tell you what 
 to do, it merely hints at what could help make things more convenient for you. it is often a challenge 
 using information to your advantage, and extremely satisfying.
  
  the plot is fine, once again nothing revolutionary, but seeing as it is mostly flashbacks and very 
 little story in between missions, it really isn't about that. nevertheless the story holds its 
 own, and i found myself desperately wanting to know what happens next.
  
  the gunplay itself, with weapons like the M4 and SMG, is a little disappointing. the AI arent up 
 to much when it comes to gunfights and the weapons often seem to recoil too much. this is a relatively 
 minor thing, but not one which will go unnoticed.
  
  the soundtrack is fantastic as always, and changes accordingly to your situation. jesper kyd doesn't 
 disappoint.
  
  to summarise:
  plot: fine, not the strongest, but not weak by a longshot
  gameplay: slightly lacking in big 
 gunfights, not a huge gaping problem
  soundtrack: excellent
  atmosphere: completely immersive, believe it or not this game is scary, just for some of the settings, 
 and the feeling that any moment your going to be found out.
  graphics: cant be complained about
  innovation: nothing truly new gameplay wise, but some superb 
 new aspects that really make this game worth playing
  
  and most of all, if you only get this game for one reason, get it for this: there is so much choice, 
 this is endlessly replayable, its great plotting the perfect assassination and you get to do the 
 mission how you want, in your own personalised style, and it is not as black and white as sneaky 
 or not.
  
  and to garnish: this story has a smashing ending, one which will leave you panting for more:)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  So, playing a hitman is always a good idea. It is. You are cool and calm and know exactly how to 
 do your job perfectly. The mark is set, the intel is pretty soild and your equipment is ready. 
 In the movies the Hitman always have a 5-10minute act where they take out somebody pretty smoothly 
 and everything goes to plan including the escape. later on the Hitman runs into some trouble and 
 must gun his way out, but the job gets done. It can be the same in this game if you so wish. If 
 you are the type of person who watches these movies and think, "that looks so cool" then this is 
 the game for you.
  
  The game plays really well, that is, the mechanics work and offer so much variation that you are 
 ofen spoiled for choice in how to carry out a mission quickly and silently without ever being seen. 
 You have a choice of equipment that you can customize to your specifications for the mission. You 
 have numerous chances of a 1 shot kill, or a sneaky personal encounter with your mark or perhaps 
 you want an "accident" to befall them? that is also possible.
  
  You can disguise yourself as a staff member, a crew member, a bodygaurd, a security gaurd, a mechanic 
 or even a reverend!! Use this ability to get closer to the target and infiltrate the mansion or 
 vineyard or skyrise. Get close, get brave and choose your method. Do you poison the cake? do you 
 strangle them and hide the body in a box? do you snipe them from afar? or do you simply creep up, 
 and push them over the balcony?
  
  Do it one way, then save, and reload the mission and do it another way, and again, AND AGAIN! until 
 all possible ways have been achiveved.... until another presents itself. Just last night I found 
 I could hide a bomb in a bible... yes a BIBLE! Maybe I shouldn't take such pleasure in this game 
 but it is great fun just trying.
  
  Taking out the mark is reletivly quick and a bit of a climax, just waiting waiting waiting for 
 the perfect moment to strike unseen. Really though, this game is more about the infiltration and 
 the escape. Sure setting up the kill is what you are here for, but learning how to get in and set 
 it up unseen takes mucho brain power and patience. Likewise with the escape, you can't just shoot 
 and then leg it. You become the obvious assassin then, you need to escape as smoothly as you got 
 in if not smoother.
  
  The many weapons in the game offer you the greatest choice on how to act. A silenced gun offers 
 a perfectly clean kill, and sends the greatest message, "hey look... we killed your boss, stop what 
 you are doing now". However for a more subtle approach, "Did he fall or was he pushed?" you have 
 to get thinking. You have to think, "do I need the gun? or can I get by with knocking a couple 
 gaurds out, planting a bomb on the lighting rig, hide and wait.. can i escape from that scene quickly?". 
 You are a director of death and a maestro of execution, the surgeons knife to the worlds problems... for 
 a price of course.
  
  Oh and remember to pick up your suit again before you leave the mission.... and walk out ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Starting the game i was afraid the save option didn't work, then after realizing it was a game 
 feature i was more afraid form playing the game, but then I found out it was part of the fun.
 
  
  The fun of this game was going around and finding out how to do it the fastest and clean way. I 
 still remember the first time I played hitman and I had no clue on what to do and when i got frustrated 
 started shutting everyone, but in this game it was beautiful, I just did a couple of shots in the 
 training mission, after that just poison, string and "accidents".
  
  This accidents are the greatest innovation in the game with the sedative drug, it was just right, 
 you only have to kill your targets.
  
  The scenarios were beatifically I loved the one like playboy mansion and the dance with devil, 
 so colorful and innovative I had real fun not just doing the killing but walking around then and 
 enjoying every detail and specially the perverted details, and I could expect some time thinks 
 like this can have an "adult version" games are not for kids only anymore and game developers should 
 notice this some day.
  
  Its good to have different ways to do the killings, and pretty simple, not esoteric ways like previous 
 games in the series, I just have to say that at some point I was a little bored from repetition. 
 Maybe at some time it could be good to use the silver ballers and not just in the ending. 
  
  I guess maybe that's why hes not showing the guns like in the previous games but just the 
 string, but one hand in a syringe and one in a gun could make a balance, cause some times there's 
 not only one two tree or 8 bad guys but a big bunch of guys that are better death, AND also some 
 times you see a guy with such a miserable life, like the guy from the training mission that maybe 
 it could be good to have the option to decide to kill him or just tell your client hes having 
 already a living hell and killing him maybe doing him a favor.
  
  So just apart from this couple of things yes a great game, go play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  So, playing a hitman is always a good idea. It is. You are cool and calm and know exactly how to 
 do your job perfectly. The mark is set, the intel is pretty soild and your equipment is ready. 
 In the movies the Hitman always have a 5-10minute act where they take out somebody pretty smoothly 
 and everything goes to plan including the escape. later on the Hitman runs into some trouble and 
 must gun his way out, but the job gets done. It can be the same in this game if you so wish. If 
 you are the type of person who watches these movies and think, "that looks so cool" then this is 
 the game for you.
  
  The game plays really well, that is, the mechanics work and offer so much variation that you are 
 ofen spoiled for choice in how to carry out a mission quickly and silently without ever being seen. 
 You have a choice of equipment that you can customize to your specifications for the mission. You 
 have numerous chances of a 1 shot kill, or a sneaky personal encounter with your mark or perhaps 
 you want an "accident" to befall them? that is also possible.
  
  You can disguise yourself as a staff member, a crew member, a bodygaurd, a security gaurd, a mechanic 
 or even a reverend!! Use this ability to get closer to the target and infiltrate the mansion or 
 vineyard or skyrise. Get close, get brave and choose your method. Do you poison the cake? do you 
 strangle them and hide the body in a box? do you snipe them from afar? or do you simply creep up, 
 and push them over the balcony?
  
  Do it one way, then save, and reload the mission and do it another way, and again, AND AGAIN! until 
 all possible ways have been achiveved.... until another presents itself. Just last night I found 
 I could hide a bomb in a bible... yes a BIBLE! Maybe I shouldn't take such pleasure in this game 
 but it is great fun just trying. 
  
  Taking out the mark is reletivly quick and a bit of a climax, just waiting waiting waiting for 
 the perfect moment to strike unseen. Really though, this game is more about the infiltration and 
 the escape. Sure setting up the kill is what you are here for, but learning how to get in and set 
 it up unseen takes mucho brain power and patience. Likewise with the escape, you can't just shoot 
 and then leg it. You become the obvious assassin then, you need to escape as smoothly as you got 
 in if not smoother. 
  
  The many weapons in the game offer you the greatest choice on how to act. A silenced gun offers 
 a perfectly clean kill, and sends the greatest message, "hey look... we killed your boss, stop what 
 you are doing now". However for a more subtle approach, "Did he fall or was he pushed?" you have 
 to get thinking. You have to think, "do I need the gun? or can I get by with knocking a couple 
 gaurds out, planting a bomb on the lighting rig, hide and wait.. can i escape from that scene quickly?". 
 You are a director of death and a maestro of execution, the surgeons knife to the worlds problems... for 
 a price of course.
  
  Oh and remember to pick up your suit again before you leave the mission.... and walk out ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubeyou
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Previously i played Hitman: Contacts, It was fascinating and very challenging, that is because 
 i still newbie to the game, i took around 20 hours to play that one. Now i just finished the Hitman: 
 Blood Money. It also fascinating, just like previous version. Due to knowing the strategy, I managed 
 to finish this game less than 10 hours. Of course I played normal mode first then play hard mode. 
 The name i got before after finish the mission is Hired Killer, Mad killer, and the ghost. It is 
 also very challenging but the enemy not that strong like previous version. The boss easy to kill 
 and I always trying to break the shortest finishing mission record. 0:36 is the fastest time to 
 break the opera mission.
  
  I can't determine the graphic of the game as my graphic card not the best, but i can say the game 
 story really amazing. there is no doubt it can be the best game in 2006. Worth to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord0thief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money, with a soundtrack by Jesper Kyd, a great trilogy on its back, and a lot to 
 live up to, this game really knows how to make a heart stop. Gamers who are used to the "Hitman" 
 series, may not be as impressed as many new gamers will be. A change in the interface, and a couple 
 of new features here and there, is all that's basically changed. However, the good old Hitman gameplay 
 just really knows how to put a player into the right gear. The spine chilling story and missions 
 advance a plotline that's "meh" (decent) , but the plot really took a dive on this one. Blood Money's 
 new upgrade system is great though, saving after a mission rather than just saving in game like 
 the previous games. Not having set weapons, and being able to choose your arsenal really adds to 
 the genuine uniqueness of this game. 
  
  Blood Money also diversifies itself by giving the player numerous ways to take out a target. Bombs, 
 silent fiber wire, poisons, sedation, guns, hand to hand combat, and plain old going postal. The 
 levels can be quite challenging, with one where you have to take an elevator to the eight floor 
 of a hotel, call the target, wait for him to come outside, and snipe him from the eighth floor 
 balcony, without getting caught. So Blood Money offers a real challenge, with a real sense of balance 
 in advantages and disadvantages in levels.
  
  The cons, ah yes, the AI. Well, we all know that AI is NEVER perfect, ever. But the Blood Money 
 system seems to use the generic AI that many games use. Example: Walk into a room, take out a pistol, 
 gun down a guy, run out of the room while cops walk in, you're not in any trouble... Also, the 
 glitches in game can be quite tiresome, walking into a women's restroom and getting shot by the 
 cops doesn't usually happen in real life. It's all the small things, but in the end, it's the AI 
 that essentially doesn't bode well for the series.
  
  
  However, overall, the game deserves good reputation for providing a solid, stealth action game, 
 that can also turn into a massive first person shooter, oh yeah, did i mention? Like all hitman 
 games, you can pull out a machine gun, switch to first person, and gun down everyone in your path. 
 
  Fin. This game deserves an 8.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  When you think of stealth games, 4 franchises come to mind: Splinter Cell, Metal Gear Solid, Thief 
 and of course, Hitman. Well, Mr. 47 is back in the fourth installment of the famous stealth franchise 
 in Hitman Blood Money and he's about to put away some very bad men. The story starts off simple 
 enough; you're just given another assassination job at the beginning by Diana, your contact at 
 the International Contract Agency. After that assignment, the story is told in flashback sequences 
 with 47 being hunted down by a rival organization known only as the Franchise, all leading up to 
 a showdown on the roof of the White House. It's a pretty well-told story, very cinematic in quality, 
 thanks to the direction of the CGI cutscenes and the music provided by Jesper Kyd, returning for 
 his fourth outing on the Hitman franchise. The graphics are rendered with Eidos' developed "Glacier" 
 Engine and while it looks good, some critics have said that it doesn't really utilize the full 
 graphical capabilities of the Xbox 360 and PC. This is true since there is room for improvement, 
 especially in the lighting. Not bad looking, but I will be looking forward to a huge graphics improvement 
 when Hitman 5 is released. Sound is excellent; David Bateson provides the voice for 47 once again 
 and the music is pretty good to listen to as it is both action packed and very operatic. Most of 
 the weapons from the previous installments return, including the famous dual Silverballers. Other 
 weapons include the shotgun, SMG, assault rifle and sniper rifle. You can also pick up other weapons 
 in each of the missions which are then unlocked in your inventory so you can take them with you 
 on your next mission. However, the game encourages you to use your gun as little as possible and 
 you have syringes (lethal and non-lethal) , mines and your famous fiber wire to take care of enemies. 
 As always, the game is not about hiding in the shadows, but blending in with the crowd, and the 
 stealth mechanic of using disguises remains unchanged. You have more places to hide bodies though, 
 such as bins and containers, and you can cause a variety of "accidents." In one part of the game, 
 I placed a mine on top of a group of lights and below was my target, an opera singer. From a safe 
 distance, I detonated the mine and the lights killed my target. In another part, I used my poison 
 syringe on a ship's captain's birthday cake and brought it to him, in disguise of course. One bite 
 of the cake and he was down. This is very nice addition to the gameplay and helps draw you into 
 the world of 47. There's also a notoriety system but its mostly negligible since you can just bribe 
 people and drop it back down to zero. There are about 14 missions in the game and each takes close 
 to an hour on the first try, fastest maybe 30 minutes and each feature amazing environments, such 
 as casino in Vegas, a ship on the Mississippi, an opera house in Paris, and even a Mardi Gras parade. 
 Overall, Hitman Blood Money is the best installment out the series and I look forward to Hitman 
 5, which Eidos should announce already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmallMafia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Even though I did state that this Hitman is the best in series, I did only give it an 8.5 out of 
 10. And I did so after very strong thinking. Hitman Blood Money is absolutely awesome - straight 
 out. IO-Interactive has taken huge strides to finally make a Hitman game stand the test of time. 
 The graphics are much improved, although they do feel a little... old. 47 has gotten one heck of 
 a nip 'n tuck. He looks way more the part as an assassin - huge arms, broad shoulders and finally 
 that slinky neck of his is gone. In the past versions 47 always looked like a skinny, weak bugger 
 with a neck that had a mind of its own. For once he looks like he can actually kill a person. Gameplay 
 has also undergone the nife... heavily.
  The controls have been totally revamp for quicker responding character movement and the camera 
 is one of the best Ive seen in a 3rd person game in a long time. What I found really cool was that 
 IO-Interactive developed the HUD in such a way that you'd never forget which key does what. This 
 in itself greatly benefits to the quick and fluid game play. The game in itself is classically 
 Hitman. It is by no means easy and requires you to really think in order to accomplish each mission. 
 There is a training mission, but that is so simple in itself that you really dont learn how the 
 developers want you to approach a situation, rather it teaches you only to control 47. The game 
 itself requires you to build up to your final kill. Its not a game in which you jump in, make the 
 kill and get out. You have to build up towards that kill, you have to scout the area, find info, 
 make sure you've got the right outfits at the right times and so on. The final kill may only take 
 a few minutes in itself but all the tension that builds up to get there is enough to soil you pants. 
 This game is also very unforgiving, you do get limited saves which can help you out in a tight 
 spot but even then 47 is weak and a few pot shots later - its time to reload. Now this is where 
 the game gets a bit bugging for me; Hitman Blood Money has turned into a more action orientated 
 game over stealth and thats where this game fails. While playing this game you always get the erge 
 to break loose and kill everyone you see. What this game should have been is a stealth game but 
 mixed with heavy action like Gears of War, at certain points within missions, added with an awesome 
 cover system and then you'd have the ultimate Hitman game! IO-Interactive if you're listen: just 
 planting seeds. Maybe thats what Kane and Lynch is going to be. 
  The AI too is not entirely intelligent, you can see that they're very scripted in the way they 
 act towards you and to the situation both you and they are in. Some times watching how the AI behave 
 can be a funny ordeal or otherwise its just plain frustrating. Add to this fact that the animation 
 quality in Hitman Blood Money is not of high calibre and only 47 himself has very fluid and eye-poppingly 
 good animation. Just watching him pull off one of his close combat moves is enough to scream out 
 'Hell Yeah'.
  In conclusion most people will love his game especially the fans but its also aimed at new comers 
 and those who've never heard of Hitman before. Gameplay is kick ass but lacks a certain action 
 to it. In short its brilliant but just misses on being absolutely smokin'!
  Well worth the money? - You bet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Hitman is one of those games you think wont be great on pc yet when you try it its better than 
 you think it is... that was pretty much my theme for the whole game.. it just got better and better.
 
  
  Note**i know Hitman started on PC..
  
  Grahpics...
  Great... a few unsmooth polygons here and there and every charaters face look so unemotional its 
 strange.. but overall still good.
  
  8
  
  Gameplay...
  The gameplay is where the game shines... the sneaking is great, although sometimes i get caught 
 trying to change clothes just wen a guard comes walking in, the gunplay is much eaiser on a mouse 
 then on a controller.. ive played the 360 version and the controls feel much better on pc. one minor 
 thing i dident really like was that is VERY easy to get lost in the level your playing in or even 
 finding your target in the first place. but overall good
  
  9
  
  Story...
  its in the game why bother now???. all i can say is i dident really enjoy it THAT much but it was 
 ok
  
  7
  
  Overall the game is great but some things i dident really like... like the fact that i did not really 
 like the story much, and its hard to get into the levels after the first play.. but overall great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimplyStealth
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the the fourth installment in the Hitman series. It continues the series 
 with more of the highly addictive stealth-action gameplay that made the series so popular. It also 
 offers an entirely new set of missions that make the game more fun than ever before. It also features 
 a new a new weapon upgrade system, where you can take the money you earn from completing missions, 
 and take popular weapons such as the Silverballer, shotgun, smg, etc, and turn them into, basically, 
 a dream weapon. Some of the new levels will depend on you having a certain weapon upgrade in order 
 to be the most succesful. This makes the weapon upgrading a great new feature, and an important 
 one. And as always, you play as Agent 47 who is killing those who need be killed, with the help 
 of his friends at the ICA, or International Contracting Agency. There's also a great amount of 
 variety in the missions, you'll undertake all kinds of missions. Of course all of these missions 
 involve killing someone, but the game manages to make each of the levels have many unique ways 
 to kill your targets, and then escape. To be a little more specific, you can basically blast your 
 way through each level as a crazy gun-toting action hero, or you go through each level as the perfect 
 assassin, which involves leaving no evidence of your exsistance, or that you had anything to do 
 with the deaths, at the scene. So, all in all, Hitman: Blood Money is the best game in the entire 
 Hitman series by far. You'll undoubtedly be loving every minute of the game, and be up all night 
 playing it before you know it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  I loved Hitman 2, Hitman 3 was good but was missing alot of features that were great from Hitman 
 2.
  
  Hitman 4: Blood Money has restored HItman the way it was and should be and added everything the 
 game needed to become the ultimate Hitman Game.
  
  I was shocked to find in Hitman 3 Contracts that it didn't include great misson briefing screens 
 that were in the second game. It was as if they stripped the game down a bit and added some new 
 contracts to accomplish. it was dissapointing.
  
  But I'm sure they were hard at work on Hitman 4 while let HItman 3 Contracts hit the streets, because 
 I am without a doubt pleasently suprised with everything from the new controls, to the graphics 
 and Sound to the level design.
  
  But there is always a Con to go with the Pros.
  
  Hitman is a cold blooded killer and there is no way to get around that during the game. There are 
 some parts of the game I felt completely unnecessary for Agent 47 to do it that way. Agent 47 is 
 flat out not a nice person, he has no remorse. I know he is a clone or whatever but it just doesn't 
 turn my crank very well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer, it has substance, a great soundtrack, a decent story line stable 
 game play, its fun but it needs more weapons they took out some of the traditional weapons that 
 were in all three previous ones like the Ak-74, the 9mm handguns, and they had less odd ball weapons 
 like shovels axes and so on. This game is very fun and has a decent weapon upgrade system, It has 
 a wide variety of locations spanning all over the USA and there is less thinking on how to do your 
 mission discreetly then the other ones which I don't really like because thats what made these 
 games so unique was you had to think. I like that there more opportunities to hide bodies and you 
 can now throw items such as knifes. This game is fun and I like the easter eggs such as the rats 
 gambling. So this game is fairly decent and the training mission the water and the mist graphics 
 are stunning and the game plays smooth just like Kane & Lynch Dead Men the graphics are stunning 
 but do not slow game play. So I would recommend this game if your into these kind of games or if 
 your looking for something different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of the Hitman series. I just loved the whole idea of being a silent 
 assassin trying to kill someone using wits rather than just brawn.
  This new installment really delivers that in my opinion. Its packed to the core with plenty of 
 options for you to figure out the best way to kill your mark. They made the game a lot more realistic 
 compared to the others too: hiding bodies in containers, drugging drinks, pushing people over rails, 
 they all really make you try every possibility untill you find the cleanest, stealthiest way around. 
 Also, its a lot harder to just run around and shoot everyone since your weapons are a lot less 
 accurate and dont have nearly as much ammo as you used to in the previous episodes. Its quite easy 
 to die.
  I also love how they set up purchases and unlockables so that your weapons become better the futher 
 in the game you go and the more money you get.
  All in all i think its the best of the whole series but theres a catch to it.
  The bugs that 
 infest this game are ridiculous.
  First off, if you're running vista, dont update to the 1.2 version because it will stop the game 
 from running all together.
  And second, the game WILL run if you dont patch it in vista, BUT you'll have to set the win XP 
 SP1 compatibility mode otherwise it will crash constantly. Even then, a lot of glitches make the 
 game freeze for a few seconds and mess textures up a bit.
  So overall its an amazing game, defenetly worth the time and money, especially if you're a Hitman 
 fan. But be warned of the many bugs that affect the game if you're running on vista like me.
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero2infinity
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  Hitman games have come along way and finally they have managed to make it near perfect. Hitman 
 Blood Money is more exciting than its predecessors. All the positives from the previous games are 
 combined to make this masterpiece.
  
  First of all the graphics are excellent and smooth. The surroundings are spectacular. And most 
 of all the storyline is really interesting. Well the gameplay is revolutionary. It's a whole new 
 experience. You can replay this game without ever getting bored. You have four difficulty levels 
 to choose from and 12 missions to complete.
  
  The way you complete the mission is up to you. You can choose from a number of alternate methods. 
 You might even reflect yourself through Agent 47. 
  
  This game is recommended for anyone who's willing to try something new. And trust me you will definitely 
 love this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  In this version , Hitman progress ! Graphic of game is very nicer than Hitman3 and also level designed 
 very attractive.
  In every level , you have several way to spend you'r objectives and you must use you'r brain. Guards 
 are very smart. I think they made the best face for itman in this version and also a good 
 story. In this version you can to upgrade you'r weapons and its a progress. Sounds effects are 
 very better than last version and also option things. You can hide body of who that you killed 
 in some place like closet ! But they didn't make pickup ammo animation for Hitman and I don't know 
 why ... because in first version of Hitman had made it ! and also they forgot to make Hitman's 
 sniper briefcase physic and you can move on it ! But these aren't chill. In this version Hitman 
 can to hand fight. I play up on levels again that made it very natural and nice. I am sure that 
 Hitman will be very better in next version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 22, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Hitman blood money is a very good game, and full of violence 
  
  Game play 
  
  You take the role of agent 47 a professional assassin and when you start a mission you are briefed 
 on who you are going to kill and what other things you have to do, anyone who gets in agent 47 
 way will be assassinated even innocent people because they will pick a gun up and shoot you.
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are amazing they are very well done and you can see the smallest 
 detail even if you are in 1st person view and you have your pistol you can see the logo and the 
 serial number, even the detail to agent 47 barcode can be seen but not the numbers, also the detail 
 to the buildings and the every day objects from a bottle of water to a car are in very good detail. 
 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound is amazing as well when you fire your pistol and it as its silencer on all you hear is 
 a ping sound and not the sound of world war 3 going on in a building, even when you are walking 
 on metal you can hear the metal rattle as you are walking even on the hard ground you can hear 
 your foot steps.
  
  
  This game is amazing every thing is in very good detail I am very happy with this game and I would 
 recommend it to anyone. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liverpoolmania7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  When i bought himan bloodmoney i was expecting a few things. I thought that the storyline from 
 the previous game would be first on the agenda, as the last game Hitman: contracts left off the 
 series with a multitude of questions. I also expected the gameplay to be similar to older games 
 where there were many ways to complete the same mission and some levels demanded stealth as opposed 
 to guns. However none of this was to be
  
  Firstly the storyline is decent, quite original, but in saying that it is totally new. That is 
 to say the very misty storyline from Hitman contracts is not resolved at all, and as a loyal fan, 
 i am left extremely disappointed. Why did i even bother to play the last game? Now the new storyline 
 isnt without its flaws, a few missions are just you killing people because of a "client" which 
 is totally unrelated to the main plot, just to make the game seem longer.
  
  Now the missions can only be completed in a very limited amount of ways. There is only one stealthy 
 approach to most levels, very disappointing considering the last two games had 2-3 stealthy ways 
 to complete a level for all levels. furthermore, many of the stealthy approaches were either impossibly 
 hard to execute, or incredibly long, and so it was by far easier to just pull out the guns and 
 shoot the way through the mission. which happened many times.
  
  Adding onto this point is a very very bad set of features introduced into this new hitman game. 
 you begin with only a few very basic weapons, a small machine gun, a larger machine gun, a sniper 
 and the classic hitman ballers. but you also have money, which you can use to customise your guns. 
 now while this may sound interesting, which it is if a gaming company can do it right, the feature 
 in hitman is done very poorly. for example, by the end of the game the ballers, which are meant 
 to be two pistols, are so customized that they are far stronger than any machine gun. They have 
 silencers, super bullets which are more quiet and do more damage, elongated clips (which just looks 
 stupid) and believe it or not lazer scopes!!! its ridiculous for a pistol to have lazer scopes, 
 but you can do it. and so you have now turned a simple dual pistols into weapons of mass destruction. 
 now with these super guns it is extremely easy to shoot down any person that stands in your way 
 in any level.
  
  another very poor idea was this notoriety concept. at the end of every mission you get a new notoriety 
 rating depending on how well you completed the mission. but after each level you can just simply 
 bribe the police chief, (which is about one fifth of the money you earn for completing the mission 
 so it isnt that expensive) and bam, your notoriety rating goes down to zero.
  
  i would also like to point out that you can finish every level using guns. The very last level 
 has a crazy amount of security but still using guns is not that hard, especially when you have 
 customized them so much. This ability to shoot your way through any part of the game leaves you 
 feeling very unsatisfied as your not really a 'hitman' but more of a 'if i see your your dead'. 
 this is all the more disappointing because in previous games you needed to use your fibre wire 
 and drugs to complete missions as using guns was impossible.
  
  There is also a little newspaper at the end of every level which explains how well you did. like 
 it gives you stats "the hitman killed 23 people, 17 of which were guards. a civilian was also found 
 in a garbage bin but it is unknown whether or not the murder is related". but after 3 or 4 levels 
 the newspaper just repeats itself over and over. and the title is always the same "Joe Smo is killed. 
 Police suspect blood money is involved" every time, no joke. well it is a joke by the end, you 
 would think they could come up with a few more headlines.
  
  a ray of sunshine is that there are some interesting levels. there is one in suburbia, not the 
 usual casino/hotel type levels that you are used to and also one is in the whitehouse. but i must 
 say security in the whitehouse is dangerously low.
  
  so thats it. Quite a poor game for veterans of the hitman series. very easy to complete, and it 
 doesnt take that long either. the customisation feature is poorly done and the stealthiness of 
 the series is lacking. however there is a decent plot and some interesting levels but it doesnt 
 do enough to compensate for the mistakes in the other areas of the game. And finally most people 
 know that there are drugs which can make a person appear dead but when given an antidote they are 
 back to normal and so the ending of the game was far to obvious and clearly sets up a sequel. however 
 after this poor viewing i am seriously doubting whether or not it is at all worth purchasing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohaib_bacha7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Well The Main Thing About This Game is the Actual story of it. The Game Starts In the Church During 
 Agent 47's Funeral And After That It Is A Series Of Flashbacks. The Graphics Of The Game Compared 
 To All Other Hitman Games Are Just Stunning. The Physics and Shaders In Particular Bring This Game 
 To Life. There Are So Many Ways To Complete A Mission Which Gives The Players Total Control Over 
 The Game And Allows Them To Make Decisions. After The Second Hitman game This Hitman Is My Second 
 Favourite Of The Whole Series. The Intensity and the Actual Gameplay Really brings about the Quality 
 Of This Game. I was Certainly very Impressed by This Game Myself. I hope Eidso Interactive Releases 
 A Sequel To This Game Because I Really Wanna Find Out What Happens After 47 regains conciousness 
 at his funeral. I hope Everyone Feels The Same About This game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  It's hard to love Hitman because it uses a concept that will befundle (read: confuse & frustrate) 
 most players. However, you cannot help but agree with me that there is a certain beauty in Blood 
 Money. 
  
  Let me start with the audio, graphics, and interface. From the country garden wedding to the Mardi 
 Gras celebration, the games sounds good. It's nothing fancy to write home about, except the main 
 theme which is a creepy masterpiece. But the audio is solid, so no complaints. The graphics are 
 recent, and certainly something that you will appreciate throughout the game even with a middle 
 range system. There is a problem with the inventory part of the interface though. It forces you 
 to cycle through your whole arsenal and prevents you from hot-keying your own weapons. So it loses 
 some score for that bit of laziness.
  
  The gameplay in this game is smooth all the way. You won't be walking through crowds as if they 
 were made out of paper. And there's a sizable challenge to use a sniper in any circumstance. It 
 definitely is a hard game, and the learning curve may throw off some players. But it pays off in 
 the end because of the storyline and plot that make it all worth it. The notoriety system was a 
 half-hearted effort, but you won't realise it most of the time, which keeps the game from being 
 perfect.
  
  Next, we move on to the storyline. The game delivers a good, believable story. Even for a first-time 
 Hitman player like myself, I was able to follow the origin of Agent 47. The story is told in the 
 form of flashbacks which build up so much momentum that you can feel the pressure as you complete 
 each contract. All this leads to a final showdown that honestly makes this game the instant classic 
 that I'm raving about.
  
  Overall, it could have been a perfect game. But the steep learning curve, the console-like inventory, 
 and the notoriety system keep it from achieving just that.
  
  If you can appreaciate each perfect kill, Hitman: Blood Money is highly recommended. But as I said 
 before, it's not everyone's cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limowrecked
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  One thing that i must admit when it comes to describing Eidos and IO interactive work with Hitman 
 series is pure, flawless (and unfortunately slow) progression. Almost each part of hitman brought 
 improvement in gameplay and overall feeling about the game without spoiling any of its good sides 
 which is a rare thing to happen expecially in the case which consists of 4 titles. There are still 
 some spoilers and things that need to be dealed with but each time hitman gets closer to the sweet-spot. 
 
  
  The game itself is a great example of how much fun u can have from your own creative thinking, 
 freedom in acting, and sometimes improvisation. Of course you aren't totally unlimited in ways 
 u can finish each level because creators of the game just gave you many possibilities and whatever 
 u do it will be just a choice between some of them or combinating many different ones to reach 
 the goal but this doesn't change the fact that u can play this game from start several times taking 
 almost each level (or should i say taking out your target) in different style.
  Playing hitman feels great when u do your job in the way u're supposed to which means stealthy 
 and silent. Bar staff goes out on a smoke, guests in private party talk to each other, guards do 
 their patrols and it's quite a satisfaction when u manage to take out a guy and hide his body unseen 
 or make it look like an accident without getting any attention. Problem is when u get into a fight 
 and in that moments this game turns B. A. D., AI seems non existent u can shoot every armed guy on 
 the map in minute and walkout.
  Other strange thing is that u get highest ranks and more money for stalthy approach but 70% of 
 equipment u can spent them on is designed for going loud so... what sense does it make? Game designers 
 really tried hard to give u possibility to play the way u want, so there's garrote, knives and 
 silencers as well as shotguns, machine guns and rifles but let's face it if u want some brain relaxing 
 shooting u wont play hitman. Cool add in H4 is 'hand-to-hand' which is both useful and fun to watch, 
 u can disarm your opponent in one smooth move and then kick his ass effectively and quiet.
  
  Summarizing Hitman 4 (as well as it's predecessors) really deserves to be tried out. It has 
 its own unique style and somehow extends the gamplay value over what we know from other stealth 
 based games. If there will be Hitman 5 i hope it well be as close to perfection as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  i already play Hitman start from code name AK 47, Contracts, silent assassin and now here comes 
 the blood money they do the great job from the other game before...
  
  Graphics: the graphics are look so good and looks real, and also all character now are have shadow 
 detail rather than the other they been released before...
  
  Music: is seem alright you can have auto music when your intense arise, you will hear some foot 
 sound that walking around near you as you hear, your foot sound too, the sound of gun shooting 
 are looks like different now from the other...................
  
  Game Play: like the other Hitman that they been released before you can use disguise but that's 
 the only one never change cause the other game play are have a big different like you can perform 
 or take innocent people or an enemy as your human shield, you can get some bucks ( Money ) for 
 every mission you complete to upgrade your weapon ( you can customize your weapon now ) that what 
 i been wish before :D too good for me :D also you can use your money to buy intern, pay witness, 
 etc............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fewes17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Although I never played a Hitman game before I got Blood Money for PC, this game just blew me away.
 
  
  First of all the controls are smooth, and you can easily customize any setting you want, which 
 makes the game fluid and fun while it's not too complicated, you can easily access all your items 
 just using one key.
  
  The graphics are really nice, while on the other hand you don't need the best of computers for 
 this game to run.
  Most of the objects in this game looks nice and detailed, but the characters faces looks kind of 
 stiff, and animations are sometimes a little bit jerky, but nothing of that affects the gameplay.
 
  
  The gameplay is the best part of this game, there is so much variation.
  If you want, you can just suit up with the assault rifle and slaughter everyone on the whole map, 
 try a silent approach and sneak in undetected, steal some security wearings and pass without notice, 
 the game is very non-linear on every map, although there's always the same targets if you play 
 it over again.
  
  Another fun part of the game is the ability to purchase upgrades and addons for your weapons, such 
 assets include: Silencers, different kind of ammunition, scopes, extra large magazines, internal 
 parts, which upgrades rate of fire/damage/accuracy.
  
  All this mixed together makes one of the most entertaining games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  I must say I never played an "Adventure Stealth" game before, or whatever they call it, and as 
 such I enjoyed Hitman: Blood Money a lot, even if at times might be frustrating if you want a Silent 
 Assassin rank or even a Professional rank. The game is very well developed, graphics are amazing, 
 and overall game play is great and stable, although for some reason they made it a bit too complicated, 
 not sure why. But the best part of the story, and I think that's where you enjoy the game a lot, 
 together with the music score. If you pay attention to the music, it can signal you if you are 
 on the right track or close to complete your mission
  
  Another great thing is the many different ways to complete a mission. There are several options 
 around to obtain any of the rankings you want and finish the game. Once you finish a mission, you 
 can get into any of the walkthroughs on the web and it will be hard to find one that matches what 
 you did. This is great, and I can't remember many games around so open to imagination and adaptive 
 to the way you like to play.
  
  As and stealth game, I think the idea is that you get at least a professional ranking (2nd from 
 top) and that's not an easy feat. You will find yourself doing countless try-outs to figure out 
 ways to infiltrate places and kill your targets without causing trouble around and killing only 
 them, without anyone seeing you. In some missions this is an achievable task without trying too 
 much (but not easy) but in some others it can be very hard and frustrating, considering that for 
 the game developers, a small white dog can count as a 'witness' on a cleansing job, or that the 
 game put witnesses on you even if practically there are none or no one to see around. One or two 
 witnesses won't preempt a Professional rating, but just one WILL prevent a Silent Assassin, and 
 'inventing' witnesses an assuming dogs can identify you to the police, is just a stupid thing
 
  
  What adds more to the frustration is the way to save your progress if you are a person like me- 
 without much time to sit several hours in front of a PC. I don't care they give you seven saves 
 or three saves or one, but you should be able to leave the game and get into it again at the same 
 spot and progress. But that's not the case. If you leave a game, you'll have to start all over 
 again, a repetitive and tedious way to get again where you left. This is silly and I don't see 
 any reason to do this but to add difficulty to a game that really doesn't need more. I would have 
 enjoyed the game much more if I would have been able to save my progress, even via checkpoints
 
  
  Those issues aside, this a great game that should be played. Quick Note: it's not necessary to 
 play the previous Hitman games in the series to play Blood Money. There is background information 
 needed that you can find on the web, but there is no linear story or things you should have learned 
 in the other games that would preempt you to enjoy or finish Blood Money. Previous games are just 
 older versions of this one. So my recommendation is that, unless you're a big fan of Hitman, don't 
 buy the trilogy as I did, but just Blood Money. The other two look old and silly, in my opinion.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  hitman blood money is one of the most open ended hitman games ever because every level has many 
 ways specifically made by the developers just for that level to kill the targets. these ways do 
 not include going in and shooting the target, but using tactics to take him out. you can suffocate 
 him with weights while he is working out, push him into the sauna, place a bomb in his room or 
 blow up his stove gas cooker. and thats just what you can do in one level. because this game is 
 so free, you can play it over again at least 3 times with a different experience each time. in 
 another level, you can add aphrodisiac to the targets drink and kill him after he walks to a secluded 
 area, shoot his glass pool and cause him to fall to his death, or simply snipe him from the rooftop. 
 in hitman blood money, there usually are two targets in a level, making it possible to kill both 
 in one go or take them out seperately. even with two or three targets, it still ties in nicely 
 to the storyline and doesnt seem to be out of place. however, the environment in each level is 
 unique in a bad way. in every level, there are specific things you can do to something in that 
 level and probably not anywhere else in other levels. so if you are unable to discover that secret 
 to specially kill the target, it will not seem so free anymore. if the game was uniform throughout, 
 for example, you could drop every chandelier in the game, trial and error would have to be used 
 and would make the game more immersive and require you to think harder. another downside is that 
 the npcs in this game act unrealistically sometimes. they can get overly suspicious at times and 
 sometimes seem to not see you. when they are suspicious, they will just stare at you for a while, 
 if you do not move on, they just take out their gun and shoot you. where does this happen in the 
 real world? during combat, on easy difficulties, the npcs can hardly hit you and cause much damage, 
 but on higher difficulties, they can easily make headshots if you are still. the difficulty should 
 have been adjusted to. in close combat, where hitman can headbutt people, punch them and knock 
 them out, there are certain bugs where hitman does not do the action you ask him to do and ends 
 up causing an alarm. unless you are fighting one on one, it is difficult to cleanly knock out a 
 person without alerting the others. clearly the developers did not put enough thought into the 
 npc behavioral ai. the new system in hitman is good, where you can get money for completing levels 
 with a silent assassin rating. your notoriety and money is carried over to the next level. money 
 allows you to upgrade weapons and the higher your notoriety, the more suspicious npcs will get. 
 this innovative system is new and definetely very good. overall, this game is excellent but if 
 bugs are fixed and ai improved, it would get a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggyman_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This Hitman game really puts you in a fun spot to cause mayhem and carnage in the way you see fit. 
 If you prefer to go all Sam Fisher on everybody, then you can use fiber wire and be silent about 
 it. However, if you want to go all Master Chief on everybody, bring along a shotgun and machine 
 gun to put everybody away, but be prepared for a fight. If your like me, you mix it up sometimes 
 and do both. The graphics are very slick and raise the bar for me for a game like this. 47's voice 
 acting is as solid as a brick wall as usual and the NPCs are good as well. I recommend this game 
 for those who want to live out a mob fantasy or someone who loves ragdoll physics. This is a must 
 have for people who want to see lovely physics, people falling off of balconies onto rocks and 
 those who have always wanted to use silenced gunfire to solve there problems and get paid for it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --JakeB --
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Agent 47, the bald-headed contract killer is back for more action, stealth and money in the forth 
 installment of the Hitman series entitled Hitman: Blood Money. This open-ended stealth game has 
 all the elements to make an enthralling story that is packed with more twists that will make the 
 game as thrilling as ever. 
  
  Blood Money though is the fourth installment in the Hitman series by Eidos Interactive does not 
 require previous experience from the previous games to play. In fact, Blood Money starts off with 
 one of 47's typical assignment  that is to eliminate a shady theme park operator known as the 
 Swing King whose negligence has cost the lives of many innocent people. This first assignment is 
 similar to a tutorial that leads the player by the nose throughout the assignment. Subsequent assignments 
 after this get more difficult and less linear. 
  
  There are approximately a dozen missions in all and most of them takes place somewhere around the 
 United States such as an Egyptian-themed casino in Las Vegas, a rehab clinic in Northern California 
 and also the Mardi Gras celebration in New Orleans. As 47 complete all these missions, he discovers 
 a mysterious agency that is threatening him and his employer and slowly learn and reveal their 
 motives, all this leading up to a climatic and unexpected conclusion. 
  
  Like in previous games, Hitman offers open-ended stealth gameplay where in all the missions, you 
 are required to exercise caution in eliminating the target and escape undetected. All this requires 
 careful planning and stealth but if you do make a slip-up, you can always run and gun away eliminating 
 everyone in your path. This will of course considerably affect the money and rank that will be 
 given to 47 at the end of each mission. Of course, if you are observant and careful, a single round 
 of bullets is not even required for the missions. 
  
  The game offers two camera angles that is the default behind the back angle and the first person 
 perspective. It also offers a wide array of realistically modeled real-world weapons of pistols, 
 rifles and also submachine guns. However, blood is not necessarily needed to be on Agent 47's hands 
 as there are alternative methods to eliminate the targets. Poisons, explosives, knives and other 
 accessories are at the disposal of 47 to eliminate the targeted enemy most of the time. You can 
 even arrange for an accident to happen on your targeted enemy to avoid killing the target directly. 
 This can be tricky most of the time but if you accomplish it and complete the mission successfully, 
 it will also give you a higher ranking and more money for these types of cleaner kills.
  
  Planning an attack in the missions is pretty straight-forward like in the previous installments 
 of the series as there is a GPS real-time map that lets you locate all the other characters including 
 your targeted enemy. Tougher difficulties show fewer characters, make enemies more lethal and also 
 limit the amount of games saves during each mission. 
  
  Music in Blood Money is rather impressive with a combination of choral tracks and a few other soundtracks 
 that further add to the ambience in the game. Voice acting and sound effects are generally reasonable 
 as a whole. 
  
  Unfortunately, artificial intelligence in Blood Money is not perfect under close examination but 
 it still does a believable job generally. If you decide to shoot your way thorough the mission, 
 you will find that the enemies would only stand a chance to beat you only in sheer numbers. However, 
 artificial intelligence in the game is not all that poor as the characters can patrol the place, 
 chat among each other or even go for a break to smoke or to go the bathroom.
  
  At normal difficulty setting and above, there is also a notoriety system that is gained by leaving 
 a trail of corpses for the other guards to find out. The higher the notoriety system is achieved, 
 the easier for enemies to recognize Agent 47 in the next mission. However, for a fee before the 
 next mission, you can bring back the notoriety down to nothing which makes this an irrelevant aspect 
 of the game.
  
  At the end of each mission, there is also a sleek feature that tells you the headlines about what 
 happened in detail in a dynamically generated newspaper but this gets predictable after a while 
 as the game progresses. Other trivial issues of the game are the changing of clothes by 47 to disguise 
 himself throughout the mission. Like the previous installments, 47 changing the clothes seem to 
 look as abnormally as ever as he magically wears the slain enemy's clothes while the old one is 
 neatly folded nearby. The characters in most of the missions also look repetitive especially in 
 the mission of the Mardi Gras celebration. However, all these issues are just insignificant ones 
 that could go unnoticed easily during the missions.
  
  Overall, there are a few minor issues that will not affect a whole lot of the gameplay of Blood 
 Money. Each mission takes almost an hour to complete on your first time and when you finish each 
 mission successfully, there is always a taste of satisfaction and achievement for achieving the 
 different ranks in the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  How would you take out a target? Are you the type of player who gets out a machine gun and kills 
 everybody, are you more the stealthy type; killing your opponents with fiber wire and hiding their 
 bodies. Perhaps you prefer long range sniping or using remote explosives to keep more of distance 
 between any threads? Or better yet, disguising as enemies and getting yourself deep behind enemy 
 lines making it easy to take out your target. The choice is really yours in Hitman Blood Money, 
 in fact you can choose to do a combination of these things throughout missions. Most of the missions 
 give you several options to finish the target or even getting to the target. Once the target is 
 downed you are then tasked to escape and paid your reward and given the chance to view you're a 
 newspaper report on your adventures.
  
  For each mission you can choose your loadout, from the minimal to the extreme machine gun set up, 
 any weapons you ended up with at the end of previous missions are now in your arsenal, and you 
 can upgrade them with silencers, sights, special ammunition to get the job done just right. Mission 
 variety and quality are both very good, from killing somebody practicing their lines at the opera 
 on stage to disposing of a groom at a wedding. These missions are generally set up really well 
 and the hard parts change from getting inside to disposing of the target (s) , civilians will be 
 a major concern, if any should see you they will alert the nearest guard, so you must be careful 
 with your surroundings. One thing that perhaps isn't explained as well as it could be is the options 
 available to you in each mission, in some ways this enhances the experience, but I felt like I 
 missed many of my choices early along because I just didn't know about them. Only after I finished 
 many sequences did I realise what I could have done. In this area it could have been more intuitive. 
 Perhaps just briefly explaining some options would give you more of a sense of scale, but the replay 
 value seems fairly good with these extra ways to complete objectives.
  
  The other slightly disappointing aspect of the gameplay is the AI, a few times it can be pretty 
 dumb and lets you trick it. For example I took out a civilian victim from a distance and another 
 one found the body and told a guard, I then killed that guard that arrived shortly after and the 
 process repeated a further 10 times in the same spot, the AI does tend to do group at chokepoints, 
 but it is still harder to go all guns blazing than to sneak through. The AI makes up for this mostly 
 with their detection system and how they don't like to be followed too closely and how they will 
 react to strange things. Overall you still get some great satisfaction when you finish a mission 
 successfully as you planned even if it doesn't happen too often. The other great thing about blood 
 money is that it's ending is amongst the best in any video game, it builds up nicely throughout 
 the game and via cut scenes that look back at events, then finishes in a very iconic way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paingod84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is really intense so here's my point of view on this game
  
  Pros,
  Really addictive
  Takes time to master the skills of Agent 47
  The time spend on this game 
 is really large so keeps pulling you in
  Quite complex in terms of how to kill the targets
  It has many ways to kill the targets
  The story line is quite interesting
  Can customize the 
 guns
  Newspaper review is good but after a while it is kind of a repeat
  
  Cons,
  Not really as good as splinter cell
  Can't hide in shadows
  Guards always spot you
  The change 
 of disguises are too fast
  You can't go berserk and start shooting like a crazy freakshow ( yes i know stealth game)
  Quite 
 a handful of bugs
  The guns lack the oommph factor
  Lack of money to fully upgrade the guns
  
  so i'll give this game a thumb up (:
  
  play 
 on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boutoura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  for hitman blood mony its the best game experience in my life... I play lot of games in the few 
 last years.. and I am sure on game .. and I mean no gmae have this magic and this powerful ... and 
 the personality of hitman its the perfect game caracture I have ever seen before... when I play 
 hitman blood mony and the other versions start with hitman one codename47 till this last I feel 
 my self have the freedom to chose the of game play I want to play... and the silent assassine make 
 feel that I play the game realy... thanks to edios for those versions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  There really isn't too much to say about the game. Hitman Trilogy (Silent Assasin, Contracts and 
 Blood Money) are all games that everyone should play and they are very fun. 
  
  I cannot give it 10 as the storyline remains the same and it's missing in that department. So, 
 I will give it 9. 9 means it is a revolutionary game for me but has something missing in order 
 to go to 10 and be an absolutely unique legend. (It actually deserves 9.2 but I cannot give rank 
 it as that, I have to choose between 9 and 9.5 and 9 is closer) .
  
  Not many games deserve 9 and this is a must play. I'm sure most gamers have played Hitman (perhaps 
 other parts) and this one is just as good as any and it brings some improvements and so it should 
 definetely be played and I wouldn; t get bored even if a 1000 expansions with new levels were to 
 be made.
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jota_wa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  I started to play Hitman Blood Money for sport... i didn't espect much because the other 2 games 
 (Contracts & Silent Assassin) were a bit dissapointing... but, after the first and second missions, man, i 
 really started to get into the story!! The graphics are cool, the missions great and sometimes a 
 bit hard, wich, in my opinion is well done ;) ! And now, after i saw the movie, i started the game, AGAIN, lol! And 
 now i can do things differently, play the same missions but with more stealth, because in the first 
 time i was kind of a loud hitman, lots of bullets flying and alarms going of, stuff like that, and 
 pay more attention to certain details, things that can make a real difference in gameplay!! I really 
 say that this one is the cherry on top of the cake, the best in the series, no doubt about it, play 
 it, you will enjoy it a lot!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  well it is wrong to say that Hitman: Blood Money doesnt manage to create a realistic experience.
 
  to play the game is quite simple, but the more you play, the more you will see that the options 
 are quite huge.
  you can change clothes, kill in various ways, hide bodys...
  and that combined with a cool liberty to walk around the scenarios makes Hitman: Blood Money a 
 great game that brings a great and kind of unique experience.
  the freedom is the key here, because there are many ways to acomplish a single mission.
  the 
 A. I. is quite good and the dificulty makes the game challenging with a tense atmosphere.
  other positive thing is some special tactics to make the mission more easily.
  for example in 
 a mission that you can call the subjects cellphone to atract him to somewhere that is easier to 
 kill him...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Blood money is probably the best in the hitman series as it has got gorgeous graphics and very 
 nice story line and gameplay. 
  weapons can be upgraded and the missions are interesting. music is also ery nice. AI is nice too. 
 
  pros - 
  nice graphics
  good sound
  nice AI
  good missions
  
  cons-
  lots of hints are generally given.. which sometimes make the game easy. i stillremember playing 
 hitman 1 . it was very exciting as most of the things had to be don eby won. in this game in every 
 mission hints are given ... well i guess this if for the players who are beginers.. all in all 
 nice game.. worth playing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Ave-maria! The coolest bad-ass assassin is yours to control with the latest Hitman series. The 
 last time I played Hitman was Silent Assassin and I played it like it was Unreal Tournament. Well, 
 this time round, I made sure I won't be a serial killer or homicide madman in the ranking system 
 now.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money features a sleek gameplay experience by offering more stylish methods of undoing 
 your preys than previous installments which caters a lot for mature gamers with patience. The women 
 are sexier and flirtier in this game which makes you feel like James Bond gone rogue. The weapons 
 are fanciful as usual but doesn't serve a lot of purpose if you want to be a silent assassin in 
 all the rankings.
  
  An interesting feature that makes use of all that ill-gotten cash after every successful mission 
 is the ability to custom upgrade your cool weapons and buy useful accessories like lockpicks and 
 Kevlar armor. Also, check out the cool, fake ending credits (you'll know what I mean when you supposedly 
 complete the last mission) .
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I admit it. Hitman is probably my favorite series ever. I've played every game. Probably clocked 
 in over 1000+ hours. Yes, no joke! I am a Hitman addict! I play the game every day. I have all 
 of the games installed still!
  
  You play a hitman who is contracted by an organization to obviously do assassinations. In this 
 game though its more of a back story of Agent 47s (thats you) death. Don't worry I didn't spoil 
 it. Thats how it starts. You'll play missions that lead up to your death and really from there 
 you'll just have to play the game! 
  
  The graphics are great but I'll explain any problem at the bottom of this review. Hitman always 
 has its own style when it comes to characters. So don't expect photo realism. You can tell its 
 still a game. But non the less the graphics are great. some of the levels are down right amazing 
 looking. Which has always been Hitmans strong point. Even the weapons are amazing looking. 
  
  The gameplay is complicated to explain. You start out with a screen that tells you what you 
 mission is. You then can buy info "hints" on what you might need to do in the level. You can also 
 view various info along with buy upgrades for yourself such as better weapon upgrades and misc 
 things like lock picks, armor... etc. (silencers you should buy first) . 
  
  From here you start a mission and really its all up to you. But since its an open world you can 
 kill everything in site and take on armed men and most likely die trying to find your target or 
 be stealthy (which is the idea) and take him out that way and earn more money. The more stealthy, 
 less shots... basically the best assassin you are, the more money you make. But if you don't care 
 about that you can play anyways and still make money. This encourages players to go back and play 
 anyway they want again.
  
  You can take people as shields. Use knives to slit throats. Change clothes to those of your victim's. 
 Hide bodies. Plant explosives. Set alarms off. Heck you can even "make accidents" happen such as 
 pushing someone down the stairs or over the rail this way it looks they died on accident! This 
 game is endless in possibilities! I still am always finding ways to kill of a target I never though 
 of!
  
  There are other things to consider. On harder difficulties doing things like causing trouble effects 
 your rating throughout he game and makes harder for you to do anything in the levels. Not mention 
 the AI is smarter among other things. Theres a ton of other aspects like the game is realistic 
 such as buildings have metal detectors so how do you get your guns in? Or what do you do about 
 snaking int the white house to assassinate the vice president?
  
  The controls are really easy after the first mission. If not just go through it again until you 
 get it. The most important key is the one that makes you put away your gun quickly. As people shouldn't 
 walk around with guns out. 
  
  The music and sound are great too. Jesper Kyd does the music for the game and as with most game 
 music its amazing. I own all the Hitman music! The sound is great too and gives you lots of Queues 
 what to do.
  
  This game does have some flaws. But I don't let them affect the score because the games replay 
 outweighs them.
  
  1. On the Opera level alot of peoples game tends to crash. Theres a simple fix where you adjust 
 your sound setting on your computer. At the writing of this review most computers may not even 
 have this problem anymore.
  
  2. The graphics seem to have some problems with various cards. Nothing major, just like glitches 
 and bugs that you see in game.
  
  Theres infinite replay value on this game so I recommend you buy this game! What are you doing 
 reading this? GO BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I've never really played hitman games until this one, probably because of my age and my overly 
 protective parents. When me and a friend finally went together and bough the three game series, 
 i got this one and he got the other two. The apporach to gameplay in this series is to get in, 
 kill you man, and get out, without anyone getting suspicious. you can take peoples clothing, poison 
 food, garrotte, punch, shoot, and knife your way through the level if you choose, but usually this 
 will result in a poor rating. this is one of the few games i know of that has a good 1st and 3rd 
 person view, and you can constantly switch between the two. the game is a reasonable legth and 
 difficulty, and it looks not bad for 2006. my biggest complaint is the inabillity to save during 
 a mission, quit the game, and then restart it and load that save. you are forced to play the missions 
 from the start to finish without interruption. the plot is basic, but not at all bad. the sound 
 is not stunning, but it does the trick. overall, i would reccomend this to people who like violent 
 stealth games. kinda like splinter cell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crows_bow
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Graphics-8-this game is gorgeous when on max detail, and my clunky 8500 GT graphics card can still 
 handle it on max settings, which is a blessing. You can even see the threads on Agent 47's suit 
 when it shines in the sun just right. Greatness.
  
  Sound-9-The soundtrack was the first thing that caught me, and it was beautiful. The classical 
 music provides an atmosphere that few other games can achieve, no matter how dark and gruesome 
 they may be, because nothing is more sinister than stalking a helpless target to the sound of a 
 choir chanting in the background. Gameplay-7.5-The possibilities are endless when it comes to Hitman: Blood 
 Money, no matter what kind of player you are. Want to strut into the building, yelling Duke Nukem 
 quotes at your moniter, and just gun down everything that moves? You can do it. Wanna sneak in 
 like Solid Snake and drag some people into the shadows,? You can do it. Wanna put a remote-controlled 
 mine in some poor bugger's wedding cake? Go for it. The only downside to this is at higher difficulties, 
 you're gonna die... Alot. This is because strategies you used to use when you played at easier 
 settings are, for the most part, wrong, forcing you to choose through all your previous tactics 
 to see which one is the most efficient. This is hardly something that should affect your decision 
 of purchasing this game, but it is a minor inconvenience for people who like a challenge, but don't 
 want to waste time in the trial &amp; error process.
  
  Conclusion- I loved this game. It was so well done, and consumed hours upon hours of my time, just 
 so I could find every possibility of every level. If there were just more levels or a freeroam 
 structure, it would be nothing short of perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvioniall
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  The older games of Agent 47 were better in my opinion. The game is so repetitive.. every mission 
 you need to do the same thing , which it actually , gets boring over time. Another fact you need 
 to know before playing is , that you can save the game to load it ONLY when in mission. You can't 
 save your game, exit to windows, play the game again and try to load the previously saved game , 
 because you'll find no saves.
  
  Regarding the graphics , They're well. I rate the graphics in about erm...7-8.
  
  The game-play 
 is , as i said ,too many repetitions. Some levels are nice and original tho , but still , you need 
 to assassinate that and assassinate this and steal that and retrieve this , as usual :D.
  
  It's sound is well done. Details of sound is really impeccable. I rate 8 for the sound.
  
  Well 
 , if you have the opportunity to get this game , try to rent it first and check what you think 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Hitman series has always produced great games that are truely unique in there own way. In blood 
 money there are so many new things to exprerience. The locations you go to such as vegas or the 
 subarbs are rich with detail and look great. While you stalk your enemy you can exectue it in a 
 number or ways wether using stealth or go in guns blazing. its totally up to you, also after every 
 mission there is a newspaper that you can read to see if the cops are on to you which is fun to 
 read even though the text is similar everytime. Now onto actual gameplay, well if your a faithful 
 hitman player you now that the walking has always been awkward and it is in this game. it looks 
 as though 47 slides around back and forth. However the shooting is nice and the blood flows as 
 it should, as well as the rag doll physics it really works nicely. Slitting a guys throat with 
 a huge kitchen knife is most satisfying as you view blood splash on the walls. the overall AI in 
 the game is ok, a bit wierd though because after you kill someone and theres blood everywhere cops 
 or guards will just walk by and stare at you and leave. Also when you change clothes they always 
 end up neatly on the floor..... wierd. The sound is great with some nice music that adds to whats 
 going on around you and wether or not others are aware of oyur presense. Finally graphics are as 
 you'd except they are good nothing all that special though OVERALL THIS IS A QUALITY GAME THAT 
 COMBINES FPS WITH STEALTH, YOU'LL FIND YOURSELF GOING BACK AFTERWARDS TO TRY NEW APPROACHES TO 
 YOUR TARGETS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_dude71
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Hitman blood money (this for those who have not played the game) is a game where you play an assasin 
 who is given orders from his agency to take out important but sometimes dangerous somtimes pathetic 
 victims (i'm talking about the swing king from the first mission) . You can use pretty much realistic 
 weapons in the game and you also can custimize your own weapons given to you by the agency for 
 example, the legendary silverballers, but you also can use the weapons you pick up on the way.
 
  But there are always other ways to waste your victims like using your metal string to choke them 
 to death or you can plant explosives and then blow your victims to oblivion or just poison their 
 food with the poison you get from the agency. Now not to only talk about how many ways you can 
 waste your victims lets carry on talkin about the story of the game. The games story starts with 
 you being sent to kill (mentioned before) the swing king a person who is an owner of a theme park 
 and because of his ignorance of a park ride lots of people died and now you are hired by the relative 
 of one of the people who died in the ride, and you are to show him the picture of the dead relative. The 
 game's inside story is that there is another agency who is trying to take out yours and the more 
 and the more you do your asigments the more you find out about whats going on with the other agency. The 
 other agency's leader is a former CIA agent who is bound to a wheel chair and is out to get your 
 character agent 47. In the end you find out that the agent has already gotten you and that you are 
 dead, because your secretary had betrayed you by injecting a poison into you (you will see all this 
 in the finishing movies) but when agent 47's corpse is about to be burnt your secretary puts on 
 a special type of lipstick and kisses you (all of this are in the finishing movies) and then the 
 credits start rolling up while the priest come in and starts blessing you, or not and at that moment 
 you as the player you have to start rapidly hitting the forward button (w) and then agent 47 comes 
 to life and takes out his silver ballers and then all you got to do is kill all the guards the 
 former CIA agent and escape from the entrance of the territory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  eidos and io company continue hitman series with an amazing game named blood money. everything is 
 good in this game. like graphics, gameplay, story, music &amp;...
  but if we are going to be little regour, the sound effects are little bad like guns, menus and objects. after 
 jade empire this game have best ending i ve ever seen.
  hitman going back to his work. and I dont know what happens to diana. about story, dont worry. this 
 game have an exellent storyline. graphics are good too but
  animation of characters is little false. gameplay is little diffrent with other hitman series. every 
 mission location is diffrent with others. somewhere is in chillie and another
  is in washington and las vegas. and of course there isnt any mission in japan and china. as I said 
 sound effecs are little false but are tolerable. music is good.
  agent 47 is my most loved character in video games after trane in getting up and leon. s kennedy 
 in resident evil.
  now eidos and io are going to make another game similiar to hitman series: KANE AND LYNCH! agent 
 47 is not alone now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiling_bull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  A relatively realistic AI and fun game to play. High replay value due to the fact that there are 
 so many methods to execute a plan. Area for exploration is also big to keep the person entertained.
 
  
  I do not deny the fact that no 1 should able to complete it within 1 try. Then again..... i bet 
 no real hitman can accomplish what 47 can do in reallife too....
  
  But i do find 1 interesting fact. If 47 is able to achieve silent assassin every time, it simply 
 means 47 will be a lousy shooter....
  
  Imagine all kills have to look like accident and silent killing... since when he can use his gun... 
 other then in his garage.
  
  So i guess top hitman prob cant shoot straight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  With the fouth installment of the series, most of the gameplay and graphics are enhanced, tweaked 
 so now they are way better then they were before. The missions are much larger, the NPCs behave 
 more realistic, you have new skills and gadgets to help you accomplish missions, like the coin, 
 the ability to climb up walls and pipes (wich hasn't been seen in none of the games in the series 
 before) , plus a few short but good cut-scenes with an immersive storyline that gives you details 
 about agent 47 more than ever before. The new notoriety system isn't all that innovative, neither 
 useful, or to test your skill, it's just there as a simple item and nothing else, though. The controls 
 are also the highlight in this latest installment, offering you easy and good gameplay, but especially 
 the ability for newer players to accomodate more with the game. Overall, the game is fantastic 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  47, the famous hired killer is en-route again trying to fulfill his silent assassination contract 
 as clean as possible. This is certainly the best Hitman game with overwhelming interesting level 
 designs, and there is not a moment of boredom in this game! You follow your mission round on the 
 globe, but mostly in U. S as well as a couple of one or 2 overseas missions. Although this game 
 is not connected to other Hitman game, I think it's necessary to know how to play this game because 
 it is to be played with a certain system in order to be able to really get all out of this really 
 enjoyable game. This is one of games you can replay time and again because there are many different 
 way to finish a level. You can go ahead a do a mass murder or be a silent assassin and only kill 
 the targets. You will not be game over if you kill casualties. So, a non violent game loving person 
 can enjoy it as much as a kill &amp; go kind of player. Although the missions are similar, I mean 
 what a Hitman job is, the diversity of the levels provide enough alternation and change of scene 
 to keep the player to go for more. 47 can do more now, like climbing up the pipe and carts etc. 
 but still not enough to my taste. Although I wished he could do more. The one thing that bothered 
 me in this game was that there was no saves in the levels which means if you couldn't finish the 
 level in a go, and this is not an easy game, with exiting the game, your save would vanish as well. ( 
 although a GS member showed me a way where you could save your game, if interested check BM forum) 
 This was really annoying and I ended up repeating some level up to 20 times. What I really liked 
 here was the newspaper articles which you read about your deed at the end of each level. This would 
 look different of course depending how clean had 47 finished his business. Really fun stuff. The 
 Music is also oneif plus points in this game, mood setting and exciting although it could be scratchy 
 sometime because it got on your nerves when you failed a level times and again the music reminded 
 you of you failure! but you can shut the music always when you don't want to hear it anyway.
  Altogether this is a play worthy, entertaining, pleasurable game with enough action element and 
 will certainly be a satisfactory joy for modern A/A gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunidRacks
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of the Hitman series. I've played them all start to finish ever since the 
 release of the first game (I still remember playing the demo) . Blood Money is without a doubt the 
 biggest improvement above any predecessor in the series. Especially the graphics and overall polish. 
 The games have never gotten 9+ ratings on Gamespot for the mere reason that they have far too many 
 technical bugs; and Blood Money is no exception. But I have found that for my tastes, substance 
 and style always overcomes technicalities.
  Now you will always find some cheese in the game, a way to exploit the A. I or do something that 
 will just make you laugh at how ridiculous something is that's going on (you can stand over a dead 
 body and as long as the guards didn't actually see you kill the person they won't suspect a thing) . 
 Moments like that is what really takes you away from the game, something that has always been a 
 part of the Hitman games. And now, in fact, might be part of it's charm. I've always had serious 
 times with Hitman and some very very funny and cheesy times. But regardless of the rigid A. I, which 
 don't get me wrong can be very smart most of the time, and some other particular bugs the game 
 is very solid. Each mission has a lot of substance to it, more than any of the older Hitman games. 
 Each mission is basically a 'Traditions of the Trade' mission. Where in previous Hitmans only a 
 select few missions really had a lot going on. Now every mission has those deep and rich thought 
 out mechanics for how to execute the kill.
  The graphics are great. The lighting especially and textures on the Hitman himself are breathtaking. 
 The level design can be bland at times, especially in bigger levels, but that's forgivable and 
 more or less unnoticeable. Animations are top notch. Sound, however, could be better. The gun sounds 
 are not very satisfying and could be better fitting. But, the music, oh the music. Hitman's music 
 tracks have always been one of it's strong points. Jesper Kyd makes no fault in Blood Money to 
 make some really great and gritty music. So in the end, is Blood Money worth your money or time 
 ? (for those of you who choose to not buy games) . The answer is YES. This game is by far the greatest 
 Hitman to date, and we can only expect better in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MystrDix
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Agent 47 is back for his 4th go around in Hitman Blood Money by Eidos Interactive. At first, it 
 seems like any other hitman, just with prettier graphics, however lets take a look at some of the 
 new features.
  
  A major new feature for me was hand to hand combat. I remember in the other hitmen when a guy would 
 run right up to you, yet you would have to take the time to pull out a gun or melee weapon in order 
 to kill him. In Blood Money, you can simply attack when unarmed and watch as Agent 47 disarms and 
 bluntly beats the crap out of the target.
  
  Another momentous add on is the ability to customize your weapons. From scopes, silencers, and 
 laser sights, to lightweight frames and even different ammunition, the custom weapons in this game 
 are surely a joy. As mission progress, better customizations are unlocked.
  
  There are also a series of small tweaks. My favorite tweak is the fact that enemies dont instantly 
 know it is you if you are well disguised. Another, which is actually quite a large add on, is the 
 notoriety system, which forces the player to be quite cautious, as any witnesses or evidence left 
 behind will need to be bribed or will give information to the police. This info will show up in 
 newspaper clippings At the end of missions. If you do everything right of course, all you will 
 hear in the clippings is how you were so silent they know nothing about you.
  
  All of these factors come together to make Blood Money an amazing game, an amazing game thats end 
 may disappoint at first. However, I dont want to ruin the game for people, so I will just say, 
 there is an amazing twist at the credits if you start pressing movement buttons, and you will have 
 one last mission and a cinematic and then the real credits role. Absolutely amazing twist that 
 makes an already fantastic game even better.
  
  As for bugs, etc. I never really ran into any, just a few little glitches with sound every now 
 and then but really no biggie.
  
  Overall, Hitman Blood Money will appeal to long time hitman fans, but is also the most open in 
 the series to newer fans! Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philaes
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The cold contract killer 47 returns yet again in Hitman: Blood Money, the fourth instalment in 
 the widely successful series that has not always quite hit the mark. The somewhat shaky, controversial 
 Codename 47, to the much improved Silent Assassin then to the relatively unpopular pseudo-remake 
 of Contracts, the latest game has a lot of expectations to live up to... is Blood Money up to the 
 task?
  
  The most obvious improvement to the series is arguably the graphics of the game. Impressive graphics 
 give this game a realistic quality which compliments the somewhat dark atmosphere for the game. 
 47 himself looks incredibly detailed, from the red tie which now realistic flies about when you 
 run, and the famous Silverballer pistols are beautifully rendered. The character models of most 
 NPCs still leaves a lot to be desired however, only primary targets are unique and the rest of 
 the character models and textures are drawn from a very small pool, much like the earlier games. 
 However, they are still impressively detailed models so this can be forgiven.
  
  Unlike Silent Assassin, which favoured short story-arcs which carried on over a multitude of short 
 missions, Blood Money has several very complex, very detailed and very different scenarios to play 
 through. For example, one mission you must infiltrate an illustrious mansion high up in the mountains, 
 and the next you are on a ferryboat on the Mississippi. All of the missions are of high quality, 
 though there are some which are more limited there is usually many different methods to eliminating 
 your targets.
  
  Jesper Kyd, the maverick composer from the earlier games returns and as always delivers a hugely 
 impressive score that is a major set-piece of the game. Also, the choice of Ellen Dritter Gesang 
 (AKA Ave Maria) for the main theme is very interesting, such a serene track is a juxtaposition 
 to the lethal nature of 47s work. 47 is voiced perfectly by David Bateson, and many of the other 
 characters are a joy to listen to.
  
  There is a vast choice of weapons and other items to assist your assassinations, including the 
 infamous Silverballer pistols, a tactical SMG and unconventional weapons such as a nail gun or 
 hedge-trimmers. The core weapons can all be customised and upgraded, which gives an incentive to 
 earning money by being professional in missions, though the only problem here is that the fully 
 upgraded Silverballer pistols, SMG and Sniper Rifle vastly outstrip any other guns in the game, 
 and also the upgraded Silverballer looks rather silly, with a scope, laser sight, and a hundred 
 other attachments. Perhaps an option to hide upgrades would have been nice, but still, the upgrade 
 feature is a great addition.
  
  To conclude, I would go so far as to say this is the best game of the series, so far. It has improved 
 on every aspect of the previous games, and is a real step forward. The story of the game is interesting 
 also, similar to Contracts in flashback style but with a lot more substance. If you liked any 
 other Hitman game, or want a good action-stealth game, there is no reason not to buy this truly 
 excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshat_316
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  Hitman series have come a long way from its first iteration codename 47. The series
  has carved out a palce for itself admist the legendary action games shuch as max payne
  Hitman 
 is not an out and out action game, player can choose to complete a mission either by
  using stealth or by shooting their way through which has actually served the series quite
  well. Hitman 
 blood money liVes upto the reputation build by earlier games .The plot of hitamn blood money
  revolves around the death of agent 47. The story is reavealed in the form of flash back scenes (on 
 which i wouldnt comment mhuch) .
  Their are plenty of new stuff shuch as the notoriety meter which then encourages the player to 
 be careful at each and every step
  another thing worth mentioning is the improved AI.47 also seems to have learnt his previous mistake 
 and now acts more smart as he gets to use the environment mhuch more than the previous games. The 
 graphics of the game are qite impressive though the game suffers froms slightframe rate issues.
 
  The inventory is quite large and packs a host of weapons ranging from the trademark Dual ballers 
 to the dragunov. The silver ballers is of course
  the most pwerful and the most sylish weapon the game provides and once you upgrade it you can reak 
 havoc. You get paid for completeing every mission ,the money can be used to
  buy either the weapon upgrades or to buy hints for completing the mission.47 also has
  some new 
 tricks up his sleeve he can now climb drain pipes and hatches of the lifts. The way u complete the 
 missions also affects the amount of money u get u are paid more if u kill your target silently 
 however if you are planning on an all out assault ,which though is more fun, be pepared to loose
 
  on cash also there will be certain witnesses against u whom either u will have to kill
  or bribe them to lower your notoriey rating. Playing using stealth can be ticky but not difficult 
 its entirely upto u to choose your style and upgrade your weapons accordingly. All in all hitman 
 blood money is a great game with sky high replaybility, the story is vey engaging and keeps u hooked 
 till the very end. Agent 47 packs a lot of punch and attitude. The locations are exotic and range 
 from a hotel in vegas to the white house!. The ending of the game is quite surprising. The game may 
 not have raised the bar of third person action games but holds it steady. I loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPARTAN328
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a great game, the different levels and ways to eliminate your target will 
 amuse you for hours on several runs through the game. Good graphics and a solid story I might add. 
 Also, if you (like many people do) hate the ending... THATS NOT THE REAL ENDING :P
  
  Go back to the credits, you hear his heartbeat? odd if hes dead, try pressing forward (W) rapidly 
 and see what happens, the woman from his agency didnt give him his guns back for nothing! Just 
 wanted to point it out since I have seen many reviews that say about how they hate the ending, 
 when thats not the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heyasquirrel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  When Hitman 2: Silent Assassin was released, it became an instant cult classic among a specific 
 group of gamers. Nowadays, any Hitman game is sure to bring back waves of nostalgia of H2. Fortunately, 
 Blood Money does this without also inducing waves of nausea.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The formula is intact, which is a good thing. The context-sensitive system that has seen Agent 
 47 from conception all the way through 2006 is in better form in this game. Although context-sensitive 
 menus are still necessary on some occasions, requiring tedious scrolling, there are now three context-sensitive 
 buttons, an ingenious idea I am yet to see mentioned in a review. Each of these buttons has loose 
 associations (i. e. pick up something, drop it, etc.) , and although a couple actions seemed to be 
 miscatagorized, its a development that streamlines the gameplay immensely. Within an hour of picking 
 up the game, your finger will instinctively wander to the correct button, garnering precious time 
 and attention that, in the past, had to be devoted to scrolling through countless, repetitive options.
 
  
  The notoriety system has come under attack from Gamespot, but I question how much further Eidos 
 could have taken it without disrupting gameplay. Its a clever idea that reinforces the roots of 
 a game like Hitman. In real life, if you performed your hits in a less stealthy manner, left a 
 trail of bodies or fired guns in the White House, you would certainly lose friends. My only criticism 
 of this overhyped but Goldilocks-just-right system would be that the prices to rectify your notoriety 
 are chump change. Make it cost something!
  
  Ahhh, money. We all like it. Its well-implemented here, I have to say. Unfortunately, due to an 
 easy-to-stumble-across exploit, you can make unlimited money from the first true mission, but if 
 youve got enough integrity to leave it alone, its a very rewarding system. Some of the upgrades 
 seem pointless, but most of them serve a purpose at some point in the game.
  
  Another feature criticized by Gamespot in the past, as well as other major websites, is the item 
 selection menu. The game is paused and you scroll to your weapon/item of choice. I contest that 
 inventories in games such as these get very large very quickly, and having buttons 1 through 
 6 set to types of weapons/items means a lot of tapping to get what you want. In my experience, 
 during a shootout, this temporary pause did nothing to detract from the flow of the action. It 
 simply meant I wouldnt pull out three SMGs before finding the weapon I wanted.
  
  What does detract from these firefights is the AI. Ive seen a lot of people wrongly associate 
 clever patrol routes or conversations with AI, and I have to disagree. AI implies the computer 
 is thinking, and patrol routes are just preprogrammed animations. Once the AI has to think, its 
 exactly as stated in the Gamespot review. Enemies come running through doorways one-by-one and 
 are easy headshots.
  
  The games redeeming factor is level design, which is better than ever. Not all the levels feel 
 significantly bigger than Blood Moneys predecessors, but like the anticipated - although delayed 
 - Grand Theft Auto 4, theyve traded quantity for quality. Every level in this game, save the well-implemented 
 tutorial, has a plethora of options.
  
  The first run through the game is simultaneously the worst and best part of the game. Best, because 
 you only get to discover things once, and if you steer clear of walkthroughs, its a very rewarding 
 hunt. Worst, because on several levels, youll stumble across easy Silent Assassin methods and 
 complete the level with a perfect rating. Maybe I just got very lucky, but this happened to me 
 on numerous occasions, and I left several levels with the wrong impression that there was no substance 
 to them. Subsequent runs are much more rewarding, as you discover new ways to execute the mission, 
 and even once youve run a level dry, mixing and matching techniques can still be rewarding if 
 youre a certain type of gamer.
  
  Graphics
  
  I cant speak about graphics personally. Ive seen the screenshots, which look beautiful. My laptop 
 can run the highest effects at the lowest resolution with no lag anywhere except the hideout and 
 the tutorial level, both of which feature strong sunlight effects not seen in the rest of the game. 
 Given the relative throwaway nature of these levels, I think its safe to say that if my laptop 
 can run it, youll see something beautiful booting Blood Money up on a desktop.
  
  The weapons models look fantastic from a third-person view, but from the first person perspective 
 they have these little red dots just ahead of the hammer that make them look much more comical 
 than they need to. That being said, there seems to be a fairly widespread bug where in first person 
 with some guns, the screen either goes white or gets significantly brighter. Its okay, though, 
 because even when engaging in a heated shootout, I participated from over 47s shoulder. Watching 
 him fire a gun looks so great I never needed to switch to his perspective.
  
  Sound
  
  Always hard to review, because to laymen such as myself, it's either good or bad. The guns sound 
 like they should (save the M4, which sounds like Im dropping change into a tin can) , the voice 
 acting is superb, and the MUSIC. Oh baby. I recommend you go to Blood Moneys official website 
 and download the three tracks they provide for free. At the very least, the Vegas track offers 
 a motif that runs throughout the soundtrack, and for me, never got repetitive. The same cannot 
 be said about the action cues, but since the game does a good job of getting your heart pounding 
 anyway, you wont be paying attention to the specific musical arrangements once youre in the game.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  If you have the stomach for a bit of blood and a bit of patience, this game can be one of the most 
 rewarding experiences on your computer. The game has several difficulty settings, so if youre 
 new to the series, or just want to feel really good about yourself, start with the easiest setting. 
 You get unlimited saves per level and the AI is quite dumb. Ramp it up to the hardest setting, 
 and you get no saves at all. Better know what youre doing
  
  To combat the confusing save system that made up Contracts (there were no profiles, just mid-mission 
 saves which kept track of all your progress) , you now have user profiles, but as a result, mid-mission 
 saves disappear when exiting/completing a level. It can be frustrating when youve just realized 
 youre in a perfect position to execute your hit, and theres a power outage or a meteor hits your 
 mother, but after an hour or two, I got used to it, and now I dont complain.
  
  The pros easily outweigh Blood Moneys miniscule cons. If you have any interest in this game, Id 
 recommend it. Dont be ashamed if you cant tolerate any aspect of its gameplay after several hours, 
 but at least give it the time it deserves. The earlier missions are fine, but the final half of 
 the game is a stroke of industry brilliance that shouldnt be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Practicaly till now the best hitman was the 1st 1one in the series &amp; it realy brought new style 
 to the stealth genre &amp; the other hitman games tryed to improve it but did not succeded in the 
 way blood money does ! IO interactive creted a new gameplay mecanic &amp; a new engine much easier 
 to control that really gives you more freedom especiallly with the moves of agent 47 ! The new 
 reward system really is unique forcing you to be very stealthy in your missions because your face 
 could hit the paper so the next mission will be much harder if you don't complete the previous 
 1one right ! The story &amp; the music must be the chery on top of the cake because clearly i haven't 
 seen something epic like this in a game till now i mean there are some but those games are fantasy 
 sci-fi etc. ... but this is the first crime based game that is so epic you evan wonder if someone 
 from hollywood like Tony Scott or Christopher Nolan can create a script like this or at least a 
 scene ! I recomend the game to every hitman fan but olso to every stealth fan you wont regret it 
 especially if you play it by the rules of the game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  am a big fan of the Hitman games, with Hitman 2 being one of top-10 favorite games of all time. 
 So when I claim that Blood Money is the best Hitman yet, that's a big statement for me. The developers 
 have taken everything that was great in the previous games and made it better. The levels are bigger, 
 the AI is (slightly) improved, replay value is greater, and the game looks beautiful. There is 
 still room for improvement, but not much. Gameplay: Like the previous 3 games, you are cast as 
 an assassin working for an agency that provides contracts. This time, all of your missions (except 
 1) are set in America, where you'll have to get to the bottom of a plot to destroy the agency. 
 Unlike the other games, you're paid for each hit, and you can use the money to upgrade weapons, 
 buy other items (like bombs, protective vests, health boosts, etc.) , and lower you notoriety level. 
 The payment are very generous, and I ended up with $2.5 million at the end of the game, which seemed 
 rather excessive. Also, there is really no need to spend money on upgrading most weapons, since 
 an upgraded silverballer and a sniper rifle will do just fine for any mission. Regarding notoriety, 
 this is a 0-100 meter that goes up if you are seen while doing a job. You can bribe witnesses to 
 lower the rating. It's an interesting touch, especially since the notoriety rating affects how 
 the newspaper will report your actions and appearance after each mission and how difficult the 
 next mission will be. This game is more about stealth than the previous ones, and it's a bit harder 
 to earn the highest ratings. I played on expert difficulty (which I recommend for most people familiar 
 with these kinds of games) , and you can't just blast your way through most level (or you'll probably 
 end up dead) . Anyway, doing so would take a lot of the enjoyment out of the game. The game is at 
 its best when tension sets in and you're wondering if your disguise is working, or whether anyone 
 is going to find that dead body you hid, or whether you can make it to the exit without tipping 
 off the guards. Thankfully, this game adds a lot of new gameplay elements to make things interesting. 
 You can hide bodies in containers, hide in closets, climb and scale things, take hostages, push 
 people off ledges, and more. And finally, Agent 47 has a melee attack which is pretty potent. Of 
 course, all of the old moves are there, such as poisoning by syringe, strangulation by fiber wire, 
 death by sniper rifle, etc. All of the levels are large, so you'll have to do some trial-and-error 
 runs to get a sense of where things are as well as the possible angles that you can approach the 
 target (s) . And since there are usually a few to several different ways to kill targets, the game 
 has some replay value. Since I have a thing for bombing people up with remote-controlled C4, my 
 best rating was Professional. To get the highest rating (which I assume is Silent Assassin ) , expect 
 to work on a mission for a 2-3 hours (at least on expert difficulty or higher) . Altogether, there 
 are 12 missions which will take 25-35 hours to complete, if you are playing them as intended (stealthy) . 
 Generally, the AI is convincing. However, as in the previous games, there will be a few occasions 
 when guards seem to know things that they shouldn't, or seem to not notice things that they should. 
 Graphics: The visuals are great, especially the environments. Las Vegas looks phenomenal, as do 
 the White House and suburbia levels. The game has a very refined, stylist quality about it. Character 
 models are pretty good, but not vastly improved over the last two games and many are repeated. 
 The game has many more animations, especially for Agent 47. Sound: Everything works well in this 
 department. Solid voice acting, nice ambiant sounds, and another solid soundtrack by Jesper Kyd. 
 All of the weapons sound appropriate, but this is a game in which you want to be as quiet as possible! 
 Technical Issues/Stability: I played this game with the patch that came out right at the release 
 date. I have had no problems: not a single crash, freeze, or hiccup. I was able to play smoothly 
 at 1024x768 resolution with most settings on high (I have a P4 3.0ghz, 1 GB of RAM, Geforce 6600GT 
 video card) . The game is well polished. The manual is decent, and the first mission is a tutorial 
 that will familiarize you with the gameplay. Yes, this is indeed the best Hitman game yet (though 
 Hitman 2 is still a sentimental favorite of mine) . The game has a cliff-hanger ending, so I assume 
 there will be a sequel. At least I hope so. If you like the Hitman games or stealth games in general, 
 I highly recommend this one. Strength
  
  -Great graphics and sound -Large levels and nicely done missions -Good story which is ripe for 
 a sequel -Intense gameplay -Easy to pick up and play -Some replay value
  
  Weakness
  
  -A few quirks in AI -re-doing missions can get a bit frustrating (not too bad though) -It's long 
 enough, but a few more missions would have been nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhomer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  If you like sniping, sneaking and generally kicking butt while wearing a suit and red tie, this 
 is the game for you. Personally, I like Hitman 2 even more, but Hitman Blood Money is the best 
 of the series if youre into flashier graphics. The notoriety system is kinda cool, but not that 
 big of an impact on play. I played it cool and discreet for most of the game and no one knew what 
 I looked like  but then I got to a mission that really pushed my buttons emotionally and I was 
 ready to go medieval on the SOBs that had been shadowing me since the beginning of the game. Marching 
 through a costume party with an AR-15 taking out every bad guy/gal that shoots at you with little 
 regard for blowing your cover is very satisfying in this game after being reserved for so long. 
 I think Agent 47 had to shell out over a hundred thousand dollars to cover for that incident  
 but it was worth it! If you havent played any of the Hitman games, but you like shooters with 
 great environments like FarCry, puzzle wargames similar to Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines and you 
 like James Bond movies  stop reading this right now and buy Hitman 2 (probably only available 
 online) and/or buy Hitman Blood Money at the store! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unstoppable_1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood money's storyline kicks off with someone who is trying to get rid of Agent 47 as he 
 makes his move into the United States.
  
  The graphics with the new I/O agent are stellar and feature bump mapping and many cool effects 
 like shower doors in the real world. Definately a touch up from previous installments.
  
  As far as how it plays, things now have more consequences than before. If you gain too much notoriety 
 the public will notify authorities of your presence and a hail of gunfire will be coming your way.
 
  
  Add that and the above average A. I. along with a sleek interface and weapons and you have a good 
 game on your hands.
  
  The music by the composer Jesper Kyd is worth listening to many times over. As with the first Hitman 
 the orchestral scores and atmospheric changes are sublime.
  
  Hitman Blood Money is definately recommended. The ending itself is gratifying and leaves the series 
 open to future installments. If you have had your doubts then doubt no more, this is the game you 
 should play next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizzlyman93
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best game ever made. Looking through the sniper scopes doesn't exactly 
 make you feel like an assassain, its still a great game. As you may know from the others, you play 
 as hired gun Agent 47. I think he is really cool too, maybe even cooler than Sam Fisher, who is 
 also really cool. I like the different ways and weapons you can use to kill a target, whether it 
 be a gun, a knife, a fire extinguisher, a sniper rifle, a hammer, or anything else, its still cool 
 how you can choose. Sure there is a thing at the top of the screen that tells you what to do next, 
 it doesnt affect much considering the game is so fun you will forget they are there eventually. 
 The action is great. Maybe the whole objective of the game is to kill but unlike GTA (of which 
 i will admit is also cool) it isn't just MINDLESS killing. It has a point to it and you actually 
 have to use your brain to complete the levels. Plenty of action, a good story, and good use of 
 strategy, this is an excellent game. Dont get it if you expect it to be really easy but it isnt 
 very hard either. Some of it is pretty persuasive violence, dont get it if you are easily influenced 
 by intense violence but get it if you are into action-packed, stealth-action games where you can 
 choose how to beat it. The choosing how you want to beat it is probably one of my MANY favorite 
 parts of this game.
  
  Notice how i said many . I mean that if you are into killing games, this is the best game ever 
 for you. I still havent beat it as i have only had it for a few days but it is still a freakin 
 awesome game and if you get it, you will love it. This one forever be a favorite of yours. Do the 
 game over and over again and try doing things differently, as in not killing and killing different 
 people, killing your target in different ways etc. This is an excellent and you will want to play 
 it through over, and over again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Questlove711
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Who hasn't dreamed of being a silent hitman... Going in silently and leaving without anyone knowing 
 what you just did. This is what you get to become in Hitman: Blood Money. Well, unless you want 
 to go in guns blazing which is awesome in its own way. You play Agent 47, the extremely pale and 
 bald hitman. He's slick, he's suave, but most of all... he kicks ass. Hitman: Blood Money is a 
 game that hardly has revolutionary gameplay, but that doesn't really matter. The game is just flat 
 out good all around! Let's start with this game's presentation. This game has a really nice all 
 around look to it. All the characters have a good look to them. Agent 47 himself looks really nice. 
 The one downside to this game is that it seems everyone has been pumping iron for years and years. 
 What I mean by this is that too many of the people in the game look ripped! 8 packs and huge pec's 
 and what not! They should have gotten a little more variety in the guards in my opinion. Besides 
 this little flaw, the game looks really sharp.
  
  Besides looking sharp, this game has a really nice soundtrack. I can't remember the specific artist, 
 but he does a really good job of creating the soundtrack for this game. The intense music pops 
 up during the action and there's a lot of other cool musical cues during the game. The music fits 
 the game perfectly. Then there is the sound itself of the game. The voice acting is done really 
 well (although there isn't a whole lot of it) . All the guns sound solid as well. This game has 
 an all around good sound to it, which really helps the overall feel of the game get across to the 
 player.
  
  The gameplay in Hitman is fairly simple but still rewarding. You can hide weapons and pull em out. 
 Kind of like sheathing your sword in Oblivion and taking it out. The shooting feels really solid 
 in the game, and it shows a nice blood bullet hole in the enemy wherever you shot (which is totally 
 awesome with head shots) . There are some great assassin moments when you kill the main objective. 
 A good example is when you kill a man while he's playing the cello; very cool. The game gives you 
 a lot of ways to approach the main objectives. It pays off to be more silent, but you can just 
 go in there and kill everybody. This, however, will increase your notoriety which will cause people 
 to be more aware of your presence in the next mission. However, this is easily taken care of by 
 paying money to have your notoriety lowered. If there's one gripe about the gameplay, it would 
 have to be the semi idiotic AI. Sometimes they just run at your shooting.. They don't take cover 
 or anything. So it's easy just to mow them all down on the lower difficulties. Other than that, 
 this game plays really well.
  
  Overall, Hitman is just a really good game. It does almost everything well. Despite a few flaws 
 like the weird look of some of the people in the game and the AI being pretty stupid at times, 
 this game still shines. Now if you'll excuse me, I have to go kill some more people. -Justin Sala 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is the best Hitman game so far. The stealth gameplay is done very well. The 
 locations and the immersion is great. The Mardi Gras Parade was amazing with hundreds of people 
 walking on the streets. The Las Vegas levels are spectacular. The level design is very well done. 
 The locations are neat.
  
  It's fun just shooting everybody and leaving no witnesses. Then the newspaper headline will read 
 Serial Killer murderers 120 people. You can do so much more in Blood Money than you could in Silent 
 Assassin or Contracts. Upgradeable weapons, hiding in closets, disarming opponents, knocking people 
 out, using people has human shields, elevator sneak attacks, also mines to set up explosives. Also 
 Blood Money is more visually violent, but not more violent, since violence is violence.
  
  Agent 47 is always on the top of his game. Now there is bullet holes when he gets shot. The open 
 ended stealth gameplay is done very well. I can't wait for Hitman 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calwilliamson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Hi you might of already seen my other reviews but this one is about the most kickass Hitman game 
 ever.
  the span of upgrades you can get for your custom guns is astonishing ranging from bullets to scopes 
 to silencers (which trust me help) . also the fact that you can change clothes to almost anyone 
 you kill is a big bonus although its nothing new as you can do it in all of the hitman series.
 
  incase anyone didnt know the other games they are (in no particulare order) :
  Codename 47
  Silent Assasin
  Contracts
  And the almighty Blood Money
  
  CHEAT: on Amendment XXV you 
 cant get weapons through the main doors, but you can go around the side and theyre is a ICA box 
 with a fence next to it kill the guard when he gets close and throw your guns over fence the just 
 get them later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psic0delica
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game now presents, a lot of different choices of plays, and a lot of chances to pass the phases 
 of different forms.
  47 had new missions and really interents ones. You can now kill your oponets with a lot of varied 
 forms, it's one of the things that differentiates of the previous Hitman games. And it's more complex 
 now, that you have cash to spend the way you think it's better, so the game can be easier of harder 
 depending of your decisions, so this game can be more than just shooting, what the other games 
 of this sort don't presents to the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goblin-987
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the best in the series. This game offers you the chance to elimanate your target in a variety 
 of different ways. All of which prove to be a challenge to locate and extremeley fun to execute. 
 The ability to push people off ledges or have objects come crashing upon them shows how detailed 
 the enviroment is and how it canbe used to the players advantage to execute the Perfect Hit . The 
 weapons are also great and the addition of Poison and Sedative syringes help add to the fun. The 
 ability to plunge a syringe into a civilian in order to knock him out and to acquire his clothes 
 has its own challenge in it. The use of poison syringes to elimanate guards and your targets without 
 having to shoot them also helps provide a challenge nstead of creating some First-Person Shooter 
 Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adaminator
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Hitman, a stealthy assassin will kill anyone when assigned, and not to forget given his part of 
 the deal (Cash) . With 13 new missions a fan of the hitman series should most likely be satisfied.
 
  
  Basically you are a hitman (Who would have guessed?) you are given thirteen different objectives 
 in which all of them includes a victim or victims you have to kill, you can use stealthy tactics 
 or you can bring out your machine gun and try blast your way through the entire level, though it's 
 alot harder to accomplish your objective this way you would assume, right? Well, yeah.
  
  Gameplay -
  The gameplay is not half bad, though objectives are often very repetitive they repeat 
 the exact same formula for alot of levels, Example: Kill some guy steal his identity hide him in 
 the bin, it does get boring after awhile. Some levels you'll find yourself looking up faq's on 
 the Internet to finish them, as it is often un-clear where you are supposed to go. Though saying 
 that, you can finish levels different ways which gives you a reason to play it again and gives 
 it sort of non-linear feel, and can be fun, which makes up for some of the repetitive parts of 
 the game.
  
  Graphics -
  Graphics are quite impressive, character models are nice, scenery looks good, some glitches here 
 and there, collision detection isn't too good.
  
  Controls -
  Mediocre controls, not terrible.. but not great, sometimes it's hard to preform an action on someone, 
 but nothing much to complain about.
  
  Sound -
  Nothing special, pretty decent voice acting, not much too note on.
  
  Overall -
  Hitman blood 
 money is a pretty fun game, you might find yourself coming back to it to play more and find out 
 the different ways to complete the given objectives, though the game can be slow at times, you 
 may get bored and feel like quitting, it does deliver a nice experience and is worth checking out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  A very well balanced game from every point of view, with a astonishing simple an elegant game-play, 
 captivating story-line and various interesting missions. I`m thrilled to say that the vast majority 
 of the flaws from the previous Hitman games have been corrected and that very few remain. I`m very 
 pleased with the atmosphere in the game, good graphics and sound make the sceneries very close 
 to reality. A plus in my book goes to architectural building design both interior an exterior. Like 
 most of the reviewers of this game I`ve played the Hitman series ever since it came out and i can 
 whole heartedly say that is the yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtarmanrob
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the entire Hitman series, all the way back to Hitman: Codename 47, one creates certain 
 expectations of what each new chapter will bring.
  
  Hitman 2 was a brilliant sequel, bringing something new to the game that most gamers love, unlockable 
 content (limted to the games weapons) . This was the ability to collect weapons after a mission 
 and therefore have access to them for future missions. Hitman: Contracts was an upgrade in graphics 
 performance but did not really offer much more to the player except a chance to re-live some classic 
 Hitman moments with (then) current-gen game technology and some new weapons. A beautiful game none-the-less, 
 but lacking.
  
  And wah-lah. You have Hitman: Blood Money. In my opinion the best of the series, not just for the 
 new graphics and image quality, but for the one thing we all crave, immersive gameplay!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay for H: BM is one of the most deep and well thought out games of its genre. 
 The game has adapted from its linear mission objectives to finally creating something any person 
 craves when hired to kill people... lots of different ways to do it! Not only are guns and aesthetic 
 needles at your disposal, mines are back for planting bombs and there is a new system implemented 
 - accidental deaths. These include falling chandeliers, boxes that were suspended by a rope collapsing, 
 and one of my favourites, the ability to shove people over railings. Bear in mind their body better 
 land either in the water or be dragged out of view, otherwise you will alert the guards and your 
 suspicion level increases.
  
  Other additions to the game that I found important was the limited yet entertaining upgrade system. 
 The unlockable weapons feature returned, where weapons that you had and kept on your person at 
 the end of a mission were stored in your hideout for use in future missions. However that was all 
 you could do, collect those weapons and have them at your disposal. The real bonus is your standard 
 issue weapons, the 9mm, SMG and the Sniper Rifle. These weapons, upon earning cash at the completion 
 of each mission, are able to be upgraded with some cool features, allowing the player to take even 
 more control over how a mission is going to pan out.
  
  There is also the mission rating system, which can affect how much money you earn from a mission. 
 The developers even took that as far as rewarding players for retrieving their Hitman suit and 
 Hitman Weapons before finishing a mission.
  
  Visuals: The graphics in H: BM were the best of the series, although that is naturally expected 
 with the latest realese game. I felt the depth of view effect had been improved, where distances 
 are a lot easier to judge because you can really tell how far away something or someone would be. 
 Textures and lighting have had a fast improvment, providing scenic atmospheres very fitting with 
 each given scenario.
  
  The game doesn't require a very demanding system to play and still have beautiful IQ, especially 
 with todays current technology, however being able to set the game on its highest supported resolution 
 with full AA and all graphics maxed out does make for an even more enjoyable experience.
  
  Sounds/Ambience: The game has the typical sounds common with all the Hitman titles. You have your 
 mobster movie style chord instrument themes playing in the background, the music never plays too 
 loud, just enough to create a good environment. The ambience in the game is great, being in each 
 area really makes you feel like you are there; birds chirp, dogs park, people converse and dance 
 and laugh and run like hell when you chase them with a kitchen knife. Very immersive atmosphere.
 
  
  Value: I'd have to say that value for money, single player games are always on the border line 
 of having little or none. For single-player only games to have great value, it needs to provide 
 a player with long hours of play, multiple scenarios of mission completion and a decent replayability 
 factor. I feel H: BM does all that for the gamer. Missions can be completed in more than a fews, 
 the ultimate outcome still being the same, kill this guy, get out alive. Even escape routes have 
 increased in number. And each time the game difficulty is increased, the opportunities to save 
 during a mission diminish aswell, making the hardest difficulty quite hard to master if you want 
 the ultimate ranking and greatest rewards. This allows for a large amount of replayability time, 
 and therefore I'd say Hitman: Blood Money is of great value, especially with today's prices (Hitman 
 Collection via Steam) .
  
  Conclusion: All up I'd have to say (if I havn't made it clear already :) ) that I was very impressed 
 with Hitman: Blood Money. The game offers some exciting and highly memorable moments, making the 
 player stop, think and assess each situation before making decisions, allowing for truly immersive 
 gameplay. Visuals are excellent for this type of game, and the oppotunities to replay the game 
 and still have fun are abundant. Highly recommened title for fans of the series and any gamer looking 
 for a single-player experience worthy of many hours of gameplay. And some truly twisted ways to 
 kill people, and get away with it.
  
  Rob
  (The-Reaper) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  When assassins from Agent 47's contract agency, The ICA, are systematically eliminated in a series 
 of hits, it seems a larger, more powerful agency has entered the fray. For Agent 47 it's business 
 as usual, until suddenly he loses contact with The ICA. Sensing that he may be the next target, 
 he travels to America, where he prepares to make a killing. Agent 47 is back and this time he's 
 paid in cold, hard cash. How the money is spent will affect his passage through the game and the 
 weapons at his disposal, resulting in a unique gameplay experience for each player. Powered by 
 a new version of Io's stunning Glacier engine, Hitman: Blood Money delivers the most brutal and 
 realistic simulation of life as the world's deadliest assassin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of the older games but I could not resist playing the demo and from there 
 the full game and am glad I did. The game was far far better than any of the older Hitman games 
 and breathes new life into the franchise which hopefully can only get better from here on now. 
 The biggest plus for this game is the pure fun factor that makes you want to play over and over 
 again which some games these days lack.
  
  The gameplay is impressive, allowing you to choose from a range of different methods to achieve 
 your Hit and if you do pull of that perfect Hit, it gives you a sense of satisfaction than just 
 to going in with all guns blazing. The graphics while nice are no more than that so there is still 
 a big improvement to be made in that area and I hope they will with the improvements in Direct 
 X 9 and the brand new Direct X 10.
  
  Another major factor is the game has a big replay value allowing you to play over and over without 
 getting bored since you can try to complete the missions in various ways for a challenge.
  
  My only gripe with the game is that it could of had a few more levels or bonus missions, the 
 AI can be pretty stupid and needs improving and I would love to see some kind of on-line play considered 
 for future games but a nice story and improved game mechanics makes this the best game in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series has been around for quite a while and it's a series I personaly respect more 
 than other stealth titles. Why? Well because after MGS was originally relesed on the PS and leater 
 the PC it invented a whole new genere of gaming and series like Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell ( that 
 I also realy like) . But Hitman while it had a lot of pure sneaking moment and it had it's own ideas 
 that made it popular. The first game wasn't all that well implemented but the second was and the 
 third in the series remanined close to that blue-print (almost too close) . While they were all good 
 I felt like it could've been more, make you feel more like a hitman so I didn't fell 100% satisfied. 
 Without furder delley find out what sets BM apart from it's predecesors.
  
  Buisness allways buisness
  
  In Hitman BM you reprise the role of Agent 47, the bald headed 
 assassin with a really cool looking bar-code on the back of his head. If you haven't played any 
 past Hitman games all you need to know about 47 is that was geneticlly ingeneared to be the world's 
 best assassin.
  The story in Hitman BM is better than past games beeeing les obvious and the ending is particullary 
 interesting.
  
  Many but important
  
  Hitman at it's core plays out a lot like past games in the series. The idea is simple get to your 
 target using disguises you find along the way or disgiuses from other NPCs all that triyng to remain 
 undetected with as less bodybags needed at the end of a mission. Inevetibly that lead to legendery 
 trial and error gameplay. All this hasn't changed in BM and it isn't a bad thing concidering that 
 these elements are the trade-mark of this series. But it's how it's been implemented in BM and 
 how practiclly every mechanic has been greatly polished is what makes a lot better.
  From the moment you start the first training level that you'll notice the first diference. In stead 
 of annoyng pop-up meneus, picking-up items , throwing itemes or simple actions like oppening a 
 dor are now done using a user friendlly 3 botton interface. 47 is now more fun to play thanks to 
 totaly controlable 360turn-around camera and much more interactions with the invirroment. By that 
 I mean 47 can now climb certain wall or fences, jump over obstacles all without having aniything 
 else to do than pressing the up button. The AI in Hitman is notorius for beeing really stupid during 
 shoot-outs and realy aggressive during sneaking scenes taking out and shooting you at the smallest 
 mistake. This has been replaced with gentler AI that doesn't shoot you if you open a door your 
 not supose to. Instead anemyes take out their guns tell you you're not supose to be there and only 
 if you don't move do they come out and shoot you. If the AI is less agressive with you, you can 
 be with them. 47 can now punch enemyes in the face and leave them KO or push them if their not 
 facing you. Or if you have gun equipped you can simply tahew them hostage from beheind and hit 
 them in the head with the but of your gun. As final little thing 47 can now do is throw virtuallu 
 any object and I don't mean just leave them there, I mean throwing them like Master Chief throws 
 a grenade in Halo. So you can use coins to distract your enemyes. If you take any of these elements 
 out of context with the rest of the game but together they make vastly better expirience than in 
 past Hitman games.
  
  I haven't been here before
  
  A nother greatlly improved element in BM are the inviroment over a dozen. Their some of the most 
 of the inventive I've ever seen in a videogame to date. They varry from a porn mansion in the rocky 
 mounyains to an Egyptian themed Las Vegas hote to The White Hous. They're trully imerseve concidering 
 the fact that NPCs don't just patrole with no goal in mind, yhey all have their own jobs and do 
 their own thing includind the targets. In past Hitman games after you finished a mission you wanted 
 to go back to it, to either get a better raiting or just blow everything away with a shotgun.
 
  Now thanks to the huge and detailed inviroments you can take out your target in a lot more ways 
 giving the game huge replay value. Combine that with an outstanding soundtrack by Jesper Kyd and 
 a shine to 47's crome-done head that will leave your jaw moving in the air and you'll know that 
 BM has an outstanding overall design.
  
  Money money money
  
  In Hitman you are an assassin (figures) so why do you kill people? To get money. In BA there is 
 a whole new monetary sistem present that shows itsself in various ways. First acording to your 
 rating, that by the way is back , you get a certain amount of money. Play it like Rambo and get 
 about a quarter of the cash you would get if you play it stealthy. But what is the money any good 
 for? Well there is this ney Notoriaty sistemt. It works like this kill someone and leave a witness 
 or get cought on camera and your face will apear in the newspaper. Yes, after a mission you can 
 read the newspaper that describes the hit in impressive detail. If you are all the hot news your 
 only chace of not getting shot at in the next mission by enemyes that have read the newspaper, 
 is bribing a few people with relativly small amount of money compared to how much you're making. 
 A nother way of speneding your money is the thank God it's back weapon purcahase sistem. For 47's 
 trademark guns you can buy upgrades that make your standard baller look like a UZI by the time 
 you fully customized it and it really shoots like one too. At last...... AT LONG, LONG LAST !!!!!!
 
  
  HItman Blood Money improves the series in the way it allways tried and more beeing more like an 
 assassaination simulator than it's prequells. What makes BM so great isn't just the improved mechaniks 
 or huge and detailed inviroment it's all the elements combined that make it way superior to it's 
 predrcesors. After BM you'll want to pick up a couple guns and leave anyone who ever pissed you 
 of in the past with a sirious case of led poisoning. In other word it succedes in making you feel 
 like true Hitman something that in the bottom of your heart knew didn't happen after plaiyng past 
 Hitman titles. If you ever had a problem with Hitman's trial and error style of gameplay and overrall 
 dificulty, too bad couse you're definitly missing out. If you liked past games you'll fall in love 
 with Blood Money. Best in the series? Oh yeah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samtheprankster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  You're dropped into a huge mardi gras with swarms of people pushig past and bars left, right and 
 center. Your mission? Assassinate the three would-be assassins attempting to take out the ammbassador 
 who's float is one of many at the mardi-gras, the only thing that makes the assassins stand out 
 from the crowd is they are all dressed in bird costumes, the ammassador dies and you've failed. 
 You find out where all three are and sneak behind the sniper taking him out and buying time to 
 go after the other two. You find another assassin lurking in a back alley where a patrolling policeman 
 is seconds away from findin blood on your hands, acting quickly you run into the shadows and wait 
 until the policeman passes pulling out a knife you turn and throw it directly into the back of 
 the assassins head instantly killing her and you quickly dispose of the body into a near-by dumpster.
 
  
  The final assassin is the most heavily guarded and seems impossible to get to until you see a different 
 coloured bird pass by, following him down an alley, you sedate the guard, take his clothes and 
 dispose of his body.
  this disguise enables you to enter the building where the third target is.
  sneaking behind him 
 you fibre wire the unwarey assassin.
  
  You sneak out to the exit and escape the mardi-gras.
  
  That is only one of the ways to complete 
 one of the 12 missions in Hitman: blood money and one of the revolutionary features in Bm is the 
 ability to take on guards, targets and innocents in your own way with a new accident feature that 
 lets you throw people over high railings and down stairs for an accident which does not incriminate 
 you in any way.
  
  Another new feature is the end of level newspaper that tells you how well you did even posting 
 a picture of you if you got yourself noticed too much by guards. This affects later missions with 
 some civilians reccognising you from the newspaper.
  
  Blood money is a rewarding game for every type of gamer, the stratergist will revel in the level 
 design, the shooter will love the ammount of guns included and the hitman will bask in the glory 
 of being a mile away when a target had an unfortunate accident involving a suspended piano and 
 a thin wire... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llamafett
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  As soon as i played blood money i was hooked. The game has a great feeling of realism. There are 
 some very well designed missions. My favourite is one where you have to kill someone who is under 
 FBI witness protection in his nice little quiet (until you get there) neighborhood. The graphics 
 have a primitive nature in some areas but the depth perception is excellent. The weapons are very 
 cool. Eventually after a few missions your duel pistols will look nice with the numerous attachments. 
 The best thing about this game is the mutliple ways you can kill your target. You can shoot them 
 in a nice simple manner or try rigging a chandelier to drop on their head, poison their drink or 
 my personal favourite, pouring a whole lot of lighter fluid in the BBQ so that when they fire it 
 up... well you know. This games deserves a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprigain
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  the previous hit man games were great but they did have there faults. Like getting caught when 
 you didn't even do anything wrong or the fact you couldn't climb things. This new game however 
 is a big improvement, they have listened to the faults from the last game and they have cleaned 
 it up. Now you can walk down a hallway without being shot at, climb to things you want to go to, 
 and kill like an assassin would. Graphics are totally amazing i think this is one of the prettiest 
 games i have seen, great lighting effects are one of the stand out points. The 3rd game felt a 
 bit like and expansion on the 2nd game, this one however you can do loads more and it has far more 
 depth. You can upgrade your weapons for example the hard ballers at the start you only start off 
 with one, its loud and not very stealth effective. But do well in your missions and you earn more 
 money and you can use the money to buy upgrade. There are loads of things to upgrade on them too 
 you can have duel ballers attach laser sightings on the gun add a silencer, longer barrel more 
 powerful bullets (you can buy bullets that can go threw walls and doors) . All these upgrades make 
 your life a lot easier. But its not just that you can buy body armour to give you that little bit 
 more help. There are loads of things and this gives the series a breath of fresh air. 47 has loads 
 more killing moves you can now use hand to hand to knock people out you can throw them off balconies 
 stuff the bodies in bins. Stealth kills are great fun too. If there is a guy in an elevator you 
 can use your fiber wire and pull them up the elevator shaft (Leon style) . There is also a strong 
 plot line this time too (which i felt there never really was a story to the others) it isn't a 
 metal gear beater but it is gripping. Overall this game is amazing great graphics totally upgraded 
 game play and a good story make for a killing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror_rush
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was great for being a challenge. There was never a dull moment in it, even if the mission 
 was an easy one you could still have fun by killing people, although it didnt do too good on your 
 results on the mission. The stealthiness of this game was fun, if your like me and you really get 
 into games then it will almost make you want to whisper so the enemies in the game couldnt hear 
 you. The upgrades on your weapons really do make a major difference on the take down of your target, along 
 with any other noob who gets in your way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fateproducer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  First of all... I enjoyed every second of this game. It's like to relax for a while
  and wander off from in front of computer monitor.
  I like games that contain reality in themselves. 
 It's like to become a contract killer for a few hours. Excellent combination of game play and virtual 
 reality.
  You don't know what will happen if... well... it's hard to get it on the first time
  not being 
 killed or spotted. And it's the masterpiece to force oneself to make
  it. However it's hard... I love doing the same thing in the different ways... you've
  got lots 
 of possibilities to get your job done. Find it... and do it... can't miss it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  ------------------------- MY RATINGS -------------------------
  Difficulty: Just Right
  Time Spent: 20 to 40 Hours (to date)
  Learning Curve: 0 to 30 Minutes
  
  Gameplay: 10 / 10
 
  Graphics: 10 / 10
  Sound: 9 / 10
  Value: 9 / 10
  My Tilt: 9/ 10
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay: If you 
 ain't got a brain, you ain't going to get too far in this game. You play as a hitman named 47 who's 
 placed in different scenerios which all share a common objective - to kill your marks. There are 
 12 missions in all, and within each one you must use all sorts of ways to achieve your given objectives. 
 If you have never played any games in the Hitman series, it is best described to as a GTA: San Andreas 
 style Splinter Cell game. Just imagine yourself playing as a bald, Caucasian CJ doing Sam Fisher's 
 job. Personally as a FPS gamer, I was not trained to think as I play. In FPS you are usually placed 
 in a very linear storyline and environment where 90% of all you're doing is shoot and kill. In 
 Hitman, you have to come up with different ways to gain access to and kill your mark, and almost 
 all of the time you cannot just run in and shoot, for you are not prepared for that kind of playing 
 style at all in each mission in this game.
  
  Graphics: This game has proved to me what my grahics card can really do. We're not talking about 
 having everything look all shining like in games like Rainbow Six: Vegas or others, but actually 
 having a lot of AIs on the screen without LAGGING ONE BIT. In one mission, for example, you are 
 sent to New Orleans during Spring Break. Throughout the entire mission there are civilian AIs ALL 
 OVER and you do not feel any lag at all, not to mention this kind of environment where there's 
 a lot of AIs all at the same place at the same time is quite rare in any games. In short, the graphics 
 for this game is FLAWLESS.
  
  Sound: Nothing especially notable. Realistic voices and sounds. Value, Tilt: At first I thought 
 I could run through the game on Normal for my first trial, but it came out to be too hard for me. 
 Though Blood Money only consists of 12 missions, each one proves to be very intense and strategic 
 than the last. And once you're through for the first time, there's a high re-play value for each 
 and every single one of the missions because there are just so many different ways you can go to 
 reach your ultimate goal of the assissination. Buy... or no Buy? - $40 is a bit pricy but if you're 
 sick of the old and boring FPS and RTS kind of game play, Blood Money is definitely considerable 
 for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaanus147
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a great stealth action game. You play as Agent 47 greatest hitman of them 
 all. This time you are in America killing people. You travel many places in Hitman. From the shine 
 of Las Vegas to the swamps of Mississippi. Hitman: Blood Money offers many ways how fulfill your 
 contract. You can go in guns blazing or choose the stealth way. The game is more supporting of 
 the stealth way then just shooting through the level. The stealth can be sometimes really annoying 
 because you have to do a lot of trial and error and more error. The graphics are good Agent 47 
 hasn't ever seen so beautiful. The worlds are made really shining. The graphics look really great 
 out doors, were the nature looks just beautiful. Enemy AI sometimes is pretty good, but sometimes 
 they are just stupid. That only happens sometimes. The sound is very solid in Hitman. Voice work 
 of the game is good. The guns sound very realistic. Hitman: Blood Money has a good lot of replay 
 value. You can complete many missions differently. In all words Hitman: Blood Money is a superb 
 game for Agent 47's fans. The casual players may get a little frustrated when they don't succeed 
 so quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipwolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  Basically this game hasn't changed much from it first title. The visual, sound and effects are 
 none too impress conpared to games now a days.
  But what compels me to get this game and play it through is the free end style of game play. It 
 lets you choose to be what you wanna be: a maniac shooter blasting at every other man in sight, 
 a hitman who kills every one on the map quietly, a assassin who only kills his targets with the 
 fiber wire and etc etc. This game may have a short gameplay time (Basically if your good, you can 
 run through this game in 12 to 24 hours) but the replay value is there. After you run it once through, 
 the game makes you wanna occasionally go back and try out that new wacky method you just had in 
 mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13qe244
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I really liked HItman SIlent Assassin, hated Contracts, but Blood Money brings back the joy of 
 Silent Assassin. This is a fun game. I'm about halfway through and can't wait for the second half. 
 Some people have complained that it is too short - but if you take your time to search for the 
 best way to do the assassinations, each mission may take around 2 hours (if you are on the expert 
 or pro setting.) By the way, this version of the game includes negative impacts of shooting everything 
 in site. At the end of each mission, you are given money to upgrade weapons and buy information 
 for the next mission. The money is given according to how you did, how little damage you did/ innocent 
 victims killed and other misc. If you liked Silent Assassin get this - if you expected a shoot 
 'em up game with hundreds of enemies and creatures this is not for you. I combines a mix of an 
 RPG, adventure, and sneak around game.
  
  The graphics are fairly good. It is maxed out on a 6400 core 2 duo, 8800gtx, and 2 gig ram - no 
 suprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umerfawi
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Great game Hitman Blood money is the best in the serise .
  
  GRAPHICS.
  
  Grapghics are great. All the environments and character models are 3D and are sharp and detailed. 
 Blood Money is quite impressive from a visual point of view. GAMEPLAY.
  
  Many new additions have been added been added and everything has been tweaked. Controls are simple 
 and easy to play with. Triangle ,Circle and X are action buttons and at some situations they show 
 up on screen and tell you what to do. In this game, you can kill your victims, then take their 
 clothes and then hide their body in a dumpster. There are many places to hide dead people. You 
 can even throw enemies over railings and hold them as hostages.
  
  STELTH KILLING.
  
  Stelth killing is the best thing in this game. There are too many ways to kill your target .You 
 can place a bomb in briefcase or book or box and also in toolbox. you can injact poison in food, drinks 
 or in cake. The best rathing in this game is SILENT ASSASSIN . There is lots of ways too finished 
 level in SILENT ASSASSIN. Now i finished the all levels in SILENT ASSASSIN thats was tough.
  
  STORY: 9.9
  GRAPHICS: 9.9
  GAMEPLAY:98
  SOUND:10
  VALUE:10
  REVIEWER'S TILT:10
 
  OVERALL:9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  No gaming series, excepting perhaps Postal which may be disregarded for its neglect of realism, 
 has garned as much controversy and scowls whilst at the same time played by the very naysayers 
 who spurned it as Hitman. Throughout the series players control an aging, barcoded agent of a shady 
 business which accepts contracts to off figures of interest. While I have not played Codename 47 
 or Contracts, Hitman 2 was one of the finest 3rd person stealth/action combo games in existence, 
 and successfully melded platform elements with a mature, engaging style of play -intersperesed 
 with executions. Blood Money takes no exception to this tried-and-true gameplay formula and throws 
 players into a series of flashbacks told by a dying man to a reporter.
  
  Blood Money's missions are so captivating when compared to the second game and contain locales 
 such as an opera house and a mental institution. As before, two approaches may be taken; either 
 A) sneak around killing only when necessary and never getting caught, therefore earning better 
 ratings and more money, or B) slaughtering everyone including the target, although the realistic 
 damage modelling, reload times, and movements make the latter option far more difficult that the 
 former. Personally, I found a combination of the two works the best, although it exponentially 
 more satisfying when I earned the first Silent Assassin rating.
  
  As before, you can select weaponry before the mission although a silenced pistol and piano wire 
 are the most effective in nearly every mission, with a submachine gun in case things get out of 
 hand. Some missions require different approaches, although almost all can be accomplished even 
 if you packed the wrong load. Also tying in here is Blood Money's excellent freedom of style; every 
 single assignment can be completed in multiple ways, not only gunning or stealth. For example one 
 mission takes place in suburbia where you must execute someone in his home - unfortunately, there 
 is a good deal of security and the FBI in an unmarked van outside. The first option is to off the 
 delivery man and don his outfit, sneak into the house undected, and strangle the target with piano 
 wire. Another option is to sneak next door and snipe the guards by the pool with a BB gun, distracting 
 everyone while you stealthily enter through the side of the house and put two in his head from 
 a silenced handgun. Alternatively, you can gun open the FBI van, slay the agents inside, sneak 
 to the treehouse where the BB gun was and pick off the guards outside, then do the same with those 
 guarding the front door, sneak around into the kitchen and take his wife as a shield and cut through 
 the remaining henchman, shoot the wife, and kill the target. Each approach is rewarding in its 
 planning and intricate execution, and I played each mission more than once merely to see how many 
 ways I could accomplish the same task.
  
  Blood Money is a sound investment which packs enormous replay value and content into a game involving 
 the execution of unknown persons. Every time a mission is played it becomes its own unique game 
 where players must decide the best course of action. I cannot recommend this game enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The music score in this game is really catchy composed by Jesper Kyd like previous other Hitman 
 games. It fits in well with the game and delivers a nice theatrical experience. Gameplay in Blood 
 Money had not taken any huge improvements from previous Hitman games - but there had been more 
 execution moves and new accident system where a hit can look like a accident. Baldy can now push 
 people off balconies, poison drinks, bomb, crush someone's neck with a weight, sabotage a gas cooker 
 and more. There are more disguises including a huge bird like costume in one of the levels. The 
 graphics are simply amazing and the hits are more fun to play. You can take new approaches to your 
 assassination + upgradeable weapons after you earn your payment from each level. Upgrade your baller 
 pistol with laser sights and silencer to make your kill more efficient. Equip more bullets in a 
 magazine to reduce reloading and you could blast everyone in the level away, or sneak up to your 
 hit silently and slit their throat. A must have for Hitman fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying Im a biased fan of the hitman games. I first played silent assassin back 
 on my ps2 years ago and had never played anything like it before the perfect cross is tense stealth 
 gameplay, mixed with the clever and imaginative settings and the multitude of ways to go about 
 your missions made it an enthralling game to play. This was followed by the disappointing Hitman 
 Contracts but IO interactive is back in top form with hitman blood money. Not only is it by far 
 the best game in the series its also one of my all time favourite games and definitely my favourite 
 third person action game. Let me start by saying Im a biased fan of the hitman games. I first played 
 silent assassin back on my ps2 years ago and had never played anything like it before the perfect 
 cross is tense stealth gameplay, mixed with the clever and imaginative settings and the multitude 
 of ways to go about your missions made it an enthralling game to play. This was followed by the 
 disappointing Hitman Contracts but IO interactive is back in top form with hitman blood money. 
 Not only is it by far the best game in the series its also one of my all time favourite games 
 and definitely my favourite third person action game. Sorry.. .n e ways, this game is fantastic, 
 perhaps the greatest graphics i have seen for the xbox version (being played on xbox, it may be 
 the most graphics intensive game for the console... dont mean game ever... god) love buying and 
 upgrading guns, cheats are fun for a second run through. This game offers players highly addictive 
 gameplay and dives you into the hitman universe better then it has ever been explored in the past. 
 The graphics are amazing and that really adds to the realism of the hole world in the game. Each 
 level alows players to play out different ways of beating the level, so its not just one linear 
 path in which you play the game. The rating system after every level really adds to the ennjoyment 
 of how well you may do in a level, and gives a kool little newspaper headling outlining what you 
 did during the level.
  The level of difficulty is amped up especially in the harder diffuculty settings. Playing this 
 game on the hardest setting is'nt to challenging that you want to give up, but its just challenging 
 enough that you know you can beat it, if you give it time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_path
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It seems strange that Eidos and IO Interactive decided to make another Hitman game when Hitman: 
 Contracts was still fresh and new in the game store shelves. It felt kinda sudden and too soon 
 for anyone to buy it, but if you had eagerly awaited for this game to release when it was first 
 announced in the press like I did, Hitman: Blood Money is definitely worth waiting for and it just 
 got bigger and better and more brutal.
  
  Everyone's favorite bald-headed assassin returns in Hitman: Blood Money with a whole new style 
 of disposing enemy units and blending with the crowds. A lot of work needs to be done and once 
 again you get the chance to experience with his suicidal assignments. The places Agent 47 travel 
 are what make this game great. You get to be in a casino, a wedding party, a parade, a hospital, 
 heaven and hell party and other amazing locales. The visuals are rich, sharp and beautifully detailed 
 if you're playing the PC and XBOX360 version but the PS2 and XBOX versions also provides you with 
 the same satisfaction as well. Hitman: Blood Money is a sequel from Hitman: Contracts and the story 
 focuses on a mysterious crippled-aged man who narrates the timeline of 47's past and the present 
 to a reporter. The player then gets to play with the missions which is told by the mysterious man 
 himself and the locales you'll be travelling will just keeps getting better and better.
  
  The overall game engine that the predecessor have is all here. The controls have been tweaked a 
 little bit but immediately becomes second nature. The action is just what you would expect in Hitman: 
 Blood Money, like the stealthy/riot approach, disguising, and intense objectives which prove to 
 be difficult if you take the stealthy method. And after each mission, a result chart is displayed 
 which tells you how many kills, shots and other stuff you committed and marks will be deducted 
 if you perform any dastardly deeds. The game also introduces a new gimmick which entitles you to 
 bribe the police and the authorities to lower your status if you happen to be caught acting suspicious 
 or got taped on a CCTV. If you don't bribe them, the next mission gets more strenuous and difficult 
 because people will recognize you immediately and will not hesitate to fire at will or call for 
 help. To make it more realistic, a newspaper headline is displayed after each mission in full detail 
 of what exactly happened at the scene of the crime. Weapons are all standard but have multiplied 
 into a slaughterhouse which is a hell lot of fun to mess around with. Players have a choice to 
 upgrade their weapons to attach scopes, silencers, health kits and many more. Bombs and syringes 
 make their appearances as well and it gives you an advantage to your objectives. 47 even has new 
 abilities such as pushing someone over the edge, dumping dead bodies into a dumpster, strangling 
 a target from an elevator shaft and many others.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is an amazing sequel and definitely has improved a lot in terms of graphic 
 and fun factor. There are multiple ways to make the hit and it's really cool how you can get away 
 with it regardless of what methods you use. The dark humor and it's intensive presentation are 
 the reasons why Hitman: Blood Money makes it simply the best Hitman game to date. It is well assured 
 that it's replay value is a lot stronger than before because of the number of arsenals to unlock 
 and the missions are all richly done that makes you scream for more. But one thing I simply love 
 the best is the soundtrack. Jesper Kyd once again composed and produced the musical score for Hitman: 
 Blood Money and the end result is so flawless and gorgeous. I recommend all players to buy the 
 soundtrack right now.
  
  If you're a fan of the Hitman series or just happened to be attracted by it's box cover and the 
 bald-headed assassin himself, definitely check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MehrunesDagon64
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Great game!!!! Awesome gore and guns!!! I love this game it has some great guns and violence. It 
 also has some great ways to customise the guns, The only problem is that the controls are a little 
 complicated. It takes a lot just to change weapons. Also after you beat the game and play each 
 mission over a few times the game will start to seem boring. I got the game for Christmas beat 
 it played it over 20 times and lost interest in it if you want to play it rent it first. Other 
 than that if you liked the other Hitman games then you will love this one. Great graphics, guns, 
 and assignments for you to eliminate. The levels are also very detailed. But you should still rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazygamer2
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  the hitman franchise has been doing great. as everybody know u play a badass hitman out to kill 
 the bad guys. but the twist is that u got some compotition. the gameplay in hitman is way better 
 with agent 47's new moves likeclimb up drain pipes and hiding your gun behind your back when people 
 pass by. the only stuff i would have changed would be that ur competition or (the crows) will also 
 try to kill u. there are other places of improvement for example when u use fiber wire and get 
 the guy from behind the guy will like flip over. i would also change the music. but other than 
 thoses few bugs hitman is a solid stealth action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsept11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  with the red tie and fibre wire... you just cannot go wrong, or can you? no... you really cant, 
 but what if you could? but you cant.
  
  Sorry.. .n e ways, this game is fantastic, perhaps the greatest graphics i have seen for the xbox 
 version (being played on xbox, it may be the most graphics intensive game for the console... dont 
 mean game ever... god) love buying and upgrading guns, cheats are fun for a second run through.
 
  
  only thing i didnt like, i did not think there was nearly as many levels as silent assassin... 
 it dissapointed me, after maybe two waking days (roughly 24-30 hrs) of play, the game was completed 
 and sure you could change difficulty and get more money and whatev.. but still.
  
  and i didnt find as many really impressive level with a huge terrain to cover (like that snow castle 
 thing in sa)
  
  that being said, the game was still great, and a great deal of enjoyment, love the two before it 
 (2+3... 1 was a mistake) and hope they keep popin em out like a hooker who cant afford contraceptives.. 
 hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rybry
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game offers players highly addictive gameplay and dives you into the hitman universe better 
 then it has ever been explored in the past. The graphics are amazing and that really adds to the 
 realism of the hole world in the game. Each level alows players to play out different ways of beating 
 the level, so its not just one linear path in which you play the game. The rating system after 
 every level really adds to the ennjoyment of how well you may do in a level, and gives a kool little 
 newspaper headling outlining what you did during the level.
  The level of difficulty is amped up especially in the harder diffuculty settings. Playing this 
 game on the hardest setting is'nt to challenging that you want to give up, but its just challenging 
 enough that you know you can beat it, if you give it time.
  great game, overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: probester
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the latest installment is the Hitman game series. But is it a perfect hit, 
 like the rest of Agent 47's assignments?
  
  Story ------------ While you might not expect much of a story in a game where you kill different 
 people every level for no purpose other then money, Hitman: Blood Money's story ties in much better 
 then expected with the levels and gameplay. The story centers around a cloned perfect soldier known 
 only as 47. 47 works for an agency called the ICA, which is a Hitman hiring service. The game follows 
 47 through many of his jobs , from the Paris opera to the White House. During the course of the 
 story, many issues of human cloning are debated by politicians, leading up to the possible legalization 
 of cloning near the end of the story. Another side of the story follows a reporter named Rick Henderson, 
 who is a newspaper reporter looking for the next big scoop. When he is contacted by a former FBI 
 agent, he is interested, but ends up unravelling the mystery of Agent 47, following him through 
 his hits .
  
  But how does this all add up? Gameplay ----------- Combining traditional Hitman gameplay, and adding 
 new features, Blood Money is not only entertaining to play, but also surprisingly refreshing. The 
 Heads Up Display features a compass, and a little icon telling you what action you can perform 
 on any objects you're examining. The simple map and legend helps players find targets and important 
 objects with ease, with the exception of the higher difficulties. A new feature added to the Hitman 
 games, is the ability to customize your own weapons. 47 starts the game with a basic assortment 
 of a pistol, a shotgun, an assault rifle, a sub machine gun, and a sniper rifle. During the process 
 of the game, you can spend money earned from jobs upgrading these weapons. These upgrades include 
 adding scopes and laser sights, changing the slide, fitting the gun with silencers, or replacing 
 the gun's stock parts with lightweight parts. You can also keep weapons acquired during jobs for 
 use in later jobs, if you wish. The game encourages stealth, though players can run and gun through 
 many of the levels as well. Using stealth will earn you a higher rating, which would obviously 
 earn you more money. With the money, you can either buy the aforementioned upgrades, or you can 
 choose to invest in bulletproof vests, improved lockpicks, improved bombs, and non detectable briefcases. 
 Yet another new feature is a witness/evidence and notoriety impact. People who witness you perform 
 your hit will affect not only your rating on the current level, but they could also inform police 
 officials and newspapers, which could make future jobs much harder, unless you either bribe them 
 at the end of the level, or kill them. This adds yet another feature to the game, the newspaper. 
 The newspaper is shown to the player after each level, and is basically a police and media account 
 of events performed by you during the hit. If you were the perfect hitman, the newspaper would 
 read something like Silent Assassin Wanted by Police . Audio ------------ The main menu features 
 two different sets of sounds, a classical opera-esqe theme, or an upbeat theme. Each level has 
 its own background music, until you are discovered or any action occurs. Whenever either happens, 
 an exciting, upbeat theme plays, a mix of opera and instrumental music. While this theme is not 
 bad, it is a little repetitive as the only action music in the game. The sounds effects are quite 
 enjoyable, especially the sniper rifle and silenced pistol noises. The bomb sound effect leaves 
 something to be desired for, but since it is not heard often, players won't notice it much.
  
  Video ------------
  The game features awe-inspiring graphics. Blood Money requires a good 
 computer to play, but if you make the requirements, it is a most-see. The water sparkles in the 
 outdoor environments, and lights and strobes in club settings are amazing. The characters are modeled 
 down to their eyes, which move and blink in a life like manner, and the textures on objects such 
 as briefcases and rifles are well detailed. The only visual fault of the game is that in the larger 
 parade and club areas, there is almost no variety in character models, making it seem as though 
 you were running through a crowd of the same five people. Replayability -----------------
  The game features 4 different difficulties for you to try out. On the harder difficulties, the 
 levels are quite a challenge, but you'll feel much satisfaction once you've beat each one. Blood 
 Money contains quite a few levels, which could take a first timer a day or two of straight gameplay. 
 For those who've played the game through once already, you might be able to cover a difficulty 
 in one whole day. Once you've completed all the missions, you can try to get the best rating (Silent 
 Assassin) on each level, and collect all the collectible weapons in the game for display and test 
 firing at your safe house.
  
  Overall: A worth purchase. If you've never played a Hitman game before, I recommend doing some 
 reading on the gameplay first, and if it interests you, then its definitely a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  This is the best Hit Man Game I ever played. This has all the old school tactics and the new cool 
 tactics that helps player to make a perfect kill.
  RUN and GUN is a option here as always but if U are thinking to play in hard mod U have to be good 
 in RUN and GUN. If U want to play as a Silent Assassin U have to use your brain first. The story 
 line of the game is much better than HM 3 where it gives a great plus points to the game. Also 
 another plus point of the game play is that U have several methods to kill the target silently 
 (Accidents are one methods)
  
  Graphics are great and improved and U need a higher performance VGA card if U want to play the 
 game in higher settings (Which I think U must) . Sounds are also great and different sounds for 
 different situations which improves the game play. So overall this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_lost_wanderer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  It was the first hitman I played. I just loved it. It has an interesting story that wants to make 
 you making more missions to know what will happen (and you're not deceived at the end) . Missions 
 are weird and twisted. You really feel immersed in them. You get to go to places you never went 
 (stage of the Opera of Paris, or White presidential house secret office) and play roles you perhaps 
 always wished to play (actor, clown, Santa) . You can be poetic or violent, it is up to you.
  
  At the end of each mission, you get a score and a rating, so you can try to achieve silent 
 assassin (the best score) or serial killer (the worst) . The music is excellent, it really tells 
 you what is your situation in the game (all right, discovered, triumphant) and random met characters 
 comment on you (smile!!!) . It is quite entertaining.
  
  Newspapers telling you how you did are interesting too. You want to mess up just to see the robot 
 portraits they try to come up with (and see how agent 47 might look with hair...) . It contains 
 many other articles that might be or not funny.
  
  Hitman uses a lot of clich&eacute; about races and sexes (women are not represented at their best) , 
 but if you make abstraction of this, well, it is quite entertaining.
  
  Last but not least, sound is really demanding on the computer, so, if Curtains Down crashes, one 
 of the best option is to put the sound acceleration to basic. It helps.
  
  So, yes, this is definitely a good game to play, full of little details to discover or rediscover 
 (there is a mask of the Phantom of the Opera hidden in the Opera of Paris' basement for example) . 
 :) It is quite fast to finish (especially if you go for the serial killer option as I did at the 
 end, because I wanted to know the ending of the story) , but it has replay values, and there are 
 more than one way to achieve the missions. I just wished we could throw electric toasters in baths 
 just as seen on the concept art... Perhaps in the next hitman? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to write a ton here, I am sure it has all been said. Just throwing my hat in the 
 ring for a great game that did it right. The environments are outstanding, alive and beautiful. 
 I was in awe at the Mardi Gras level with the numbers of people in the street, felt like you were 
 really a part of the environment. The AI is not perfect, I played through on normal difficulty, 
 I am sure it gets better. Could get through the game without a walkthrough, still challenging enough 
 to feel like I accomplished something, yet not terribly frustrating, but at times it can be. You 
 can play through the levels again and try something different, other than that not much value, 
 but the campaign is worth it. Great game, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lageste
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I played the first hitman on release, and knew the devs were onto something special. For its time 
 it was a great game, but it was the blatant potential that stirred the imagination. This is a classic, 
 very very smooth, atmospheric and polished and a superb game despite minor sound/graphics glitches 
 at times:
  
  BUT I still can't stand being on rails, and even though there are multiple ways to complete each 
 hit, the scripted nature of the actions of your mark/npcs (although challenging) leaves you feeling 
 like your playing by numbers sometimes. EIDOS give us dynamic targets who don't visit the same 
 cubicle of the same bathroom every 2.5 mins.
  
  I tip my hat to the devs for the encore, SPOILER; Superb!!! and quite literally a piece of gaming 
 fine art. That was something very very special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JLeow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit sceptical when I opted to buy this game as I owned Hitman: Codename 47 and failed to 
 finish it due to the steep learning curve. The moment I opened the box of Hitman Blood Money I 
 knew I was in for a treat, the first thing that struck me as an improvement to the game was the 
 variety of methods of assassination, while exploring the levels the player is often compelled to 
 find more elaborate and devious ways to Off his mark, resulting in various replays of the same 
 level just to find the best hit.
  
  There is a welcomed addition of being able to compare your mission results on the web, so you can 
 benchmark your progress with the rest of the world. This aspect of the game leaves the player wanting 
 to better themselves, however many may choose not to utilise this addition.
  
  There has been a vast improvement to the disguises in the game, you can generally walk around undetected 
 providing you have the correct disguise and dont do anything stupid that will expose you. I have 
 noticed that at certain points of the game the AI will not allow you to proceed unless you are 
 dressed correctly, however you also have the option to try and find a back route to your target 
 if you so wish.
  
  The addition of Intel gives the game a new dimension as you now have the option to purchase hints 
 from the agency to give you assistance in your mission. Generally the hints can be worked after 
 once you have played through a mission a couple of times as there are generally only a few methods 
 to successfully complete a mission (providing you are opting for stealth) .
  
  The levels have been considerably shortened and with the correct knowledge the player can easily 
 complete a mission within 20 minutes still achieving a Hitman status. In one of the later missions 
 you are able to finish in 9 minutes including changing back to your original clothes, when compared 
 to the steep learning curve required in the original; avid fans may be disappointed with this latest 
 offering. I feel this game is a great improvement on previous Hitman titles and due to the variety 
 of methods of assassination available no two levels will ever feel the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  Let's face it - the first Hitman game, Hitman: Codename 47, was not a good game. For IO Interactive, 
 this began as a rough start for the Hitman series. In fact, not many games are continued if the 
 first game was not a success to the community of gamers. Since Hitman: Codename 47 was an awful 
 game, most believed that a Hitman 2 would never see the light of day. Well, either way, that day 
 came when Hitman 2: Silent Assassin was released in 2002.
  
  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin was easily one of the most improved sequels I have ever played. One of 
 the better things they added to the second game was a suspicion meter. If you didn't know, Hitman: 
 Codename 47 had absolutely no suspicion meter, meaning you could wear a disguise that collaborated 
 with the guards, and you would never get caught unless you wielded a weapon that was unsuitable 
 in that mission. Also included were much more missions than what Codename 47 had, further lifting 
 the replay value.
  
  After the critical acclaim Hitman 2: Silent Assassin had, a third game was released, entitled Hitman: 
 Contracts. Most of Contracts was a remake of Codename 47, but now this time having features that 
 made Silent Assassin a success, and which, of course, includes the suspicion meter. Contracts also 
 added more weapons, more ways to complete your mission, among other things. Despite the fact that 
 Contracts did not have as many missions as Silent Assassin, it was at least still a joy to play. 
 Now that Hitman: Blood Money is released, there have been many changes to the series, which will 
 be explained in the review. The question is, are they for the better?
  
  Agent 47 is back, and he is ready to begin his task of assassinating even more people. When you 
 start, you can begin the game in either Rookie, Normal, Expert, or Professional. Rookie may sound 
 tempting to newcomers, but I find it excluding some of the best new features in the game. Normal 
 and anything above is the way the game should be played. As with all the other Hitman games in 
 the series, each mission in Blood Money consists of assassinating at least one person, but there 
 are instances that you have to eliminate one or even two more people. There are other objectives 
 such as recovering an item, so the game doesn't fully focus on assassinating someone.
  
  Every time you complete a mission, you earn cold cash. One of the newer and better features in 
 the game is the ability to paint out your own picture with the cash. At the beginning of the game, 
 you have access to only five weapons, but with the cash you earn, you can buy more weapons or upgrade 
 your current weapons. Want a silencer on one of your weapons? You got it. Your cash can also be 
 used for a new feature, which is called the Notoriety System.
  
  The Notoriety System works in a simple form, but plays a big part in the game. If you kill innocent 
 civilians and it was witnessed by someone, or it was caught by CCTV , 47's notoriety will build 
 up. The higher it is, the easier the chance that someone will recognize you during one of your 
 missions, making it that much more challenging to complete a mission. If you're steathy and approach 
 things the way they are supposed to, your notoriety level will be at a minimum. On the plus side, 
 you can use your cash to lower the level, which is basically a bribe. Either way, this is one of 
 the best features ever introduced in the Hitman series.
  
  What's best with the Hitman series is the ability to assassinate a target in whichever way you 
 prefer. You can always go up to one of your targets and blast their face off, but that would cause 
 an alarm and a large amount of guards would be coming your way, but hey, it's at least an option. 
 Safer options would include poisoning liquid that the target would drink, or set up a plan that 
 would assassinate the target while making it look like an accident. You can also distract guards 
 by throwing something in one direction to catch their attention, so you can have a bit of an advantage 
 over them. This is what keeps the Hitman series fresh every single time.
  
  Upon completing a mission, you will be presented with a newspaper article showing your statistics 
 of that particular mission, as well as a sketch drawing of Agent 47, whether it's a clear face 
 sketch of 47 or not, depending on your notoriety level. This carries over to the next level, so 
 you'll have to be careful and more precise on your targets during each level. But of course, you 
 can either bribe a witness or police officer so your notoriety level goes down, which makes the 
 game a little bit easier if you are having trouble, or you can replay the mission again; the game 
 will take the best results.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money has some of the best level design I have ever witnessed. Although the setting 
 in Blood Money isn't as dark and mysterious as in Hitman: Contracts, that has no affect on how 
 amazing Blood Money graphically is. Everything that surrounds Agent 47 feels realistic, and even 
 has a bit of a gritty tone to it. The view of buildings from afar really brings Blood Money to 
 life, something that the previous games did as well, but not to the point that Blood Money has.
 
  
  The character models match their setting, so nothing feels out of place. Up close, they aren't 
 as spectacular as they could be, but they are still otherwise excellent. Agent 47 still looks superb, 
 and the cut scenes are well rendered and look fantastic. Other minor things such as tables, flowers, 
 and lamps look life-like, and really make Blood Money a realistic world.
  
  The music is easily one of the best parts in Hitman: Blood Money. The music was composed by Jesper 
 Kyd, and this time around, he has done a marvelous job. Jesper Kyd was great in the first three 
 games, but he really took off in Blood Money. In fact, to support such a great composer, I went 
 ahead and bought the Hitman: Blood Money Original Soundtrack, something I haven't done with the 
 previous Hitman games. The music he composed definitely fits the mood of the game.
  
  On the other side of the audio department, the sound of footsteps and guns are well-done, and even 
 when you drop a weapon or item, you can hear the thud sound of that weapon or item. The voice actors 
 feel like they're really into it, speaking in a tone that suggests moody and serious. Agent 47's 
 voice actor (David Bateson) does yet another fine job of giving Agent 47 a realistic feel.
  
  With so many alternatives to take out your targets, you can easily agree that there is plenty, 
 and plenty of replay value. If you feel in the mood to just take a shotgun and blast everything 
 that moves, then you have that option. If you just want to discover a different way to take out 
 a target, you can do that as well. One of the few problems I have is that when you save during 
 a mission, it is only temporary. This has been a fact throughout the Hitman series, but still has 
 not been fixed upon. This temporary save feature would only be useful when you save before you 
 try to do a major objective in the event you make an error and wish to start again without replaying 
 the whole mission.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is one of the best single player experiences I have ever played. Hitman: Blood 
 Money amends all the problems with the previous games to create a complete masterpiece. Fresh features 
 such as the ability to use cash any way you want and the Notoriety system breathe a new, terrific 
 life to the Hitman series. With expanded replay value, beautiful scenery, and much more, you can't 
 go wrong with what's in store for you. If you want me to nag on the weak points, that would be 
 the fact that during a mission, saves are only temporary, but saves in between missions are permanent. 
 I rarely give out high scores (above 9.5) unless it is with good reason, and Hitman: Blood Money 
 well deserves it. Hitman: Blood Money is quite simply the best game in series. If you are in the 
 least bit interested in video games, it is compulsory that you pick this up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepop4who
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is the first Hitman game i had my hands on, so I'm not able to compare to the 
 others in this series. HBM is a fantastic game with sharp graphics, intuitive game play, and excellent 
 audio. The graphics in the game is definitively up to par with current generation games and this 
 adds to the excellent atmosphere. Hitman shows HDR in all of its levels, but whether this is simulated 
 or native is not in my knowledge. However, the lightning effects are excellent and dynamic lights 
 changes with the atmosphere of every single room or courtyard. Hitman also implements a distance 
 blur, anti-aliasing, anisotropic filter, and soft shadows options built-in the menu, so you don't 
 have to use an external program such as nVidia Control Panel for your basic graphical needs. The 
 shader quality is excellent and thus allows accurate reflections and realistic textures. Textures 
 in the game are fairly sharp and detailed, so they are visually captivating enough to enjoy playing 
 the game even if you have triggered the alarm 5 times. The game play is realistic and open-ended. 
 You have several ways to kill off your target; whether you want to be a terrorist or a silent assassin, 
 the guns and tools are there at your disposal. Your basic kit of silent assassin includes a fiberwire, 
 two poison syringes, two anesthetic syringes, a remote undetectable bomb and remote, some loose 
 change, a lock pick, and two kinds of health kits should you purchase them in the future. You can 
 also carry your signature custom silver baller to do some pistol grabs and pistol whipping. If 
 you prefer shooting, you can with the pistol, shotgun, M4 assault rifle, custom sniper rifle, and 
 a SMG. You can also accumulate other weapons from the goons you kill throughout the levels (including 
 a custom Colt 1911 pistol with magnum ammo, 1 hit 1 kill!) . The overall stealth experience is challenging 
 and intriguing, and the awareness meter measures the tension in the area with green means safe 
 and red means cover blown with a bulleye on your behind. The rag doll physics can be amusing when 
 you counterattack the security goons with your shotgun where blood and brain splatter all over 
 the place. Keep in mind that this game is gore-free but it definitively doesn't miss the gruesome 
 of gory games. The music and sound in this game are excellent. The menu music is a variation of 
 Ave Maria by Jesper Kyd, who also wrote the other soundtrack in the game. The song is beautiful 
 and captures the essence of Mr. 47, the hitman, on the road of being humane. The sound effects 
 are also realistic as they are intended to be. This game isn't without flaws. The graphics are 
 not impressive when compared to other games and performance suffers more than it should, although 
 framerates are consistent most of the time. The EAX is great, but EAX 1.0 doesn't add bells and 
 whistles to this game considering 5.0 HD is out long ago. There some bugs in the game, non of which 
 should cause a program error, but they are just plain annoying to gameplay. This game is a must-see, 
 not a must-own. Try before you buy, but I still recommend it to stealth game lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shlubster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money
  
  HBM is definently a game that should be played by most regular gamers. The game is part of a series 
 although you can still have a lot of fun by just playing HBM and not Hitman Contracts. In HBM you 
 are a clone named Agent 47. the background information and story is in hitman contracts. You are 
 a heartless and unknown person working for a agency designed for hitman jobs. The game can be played 
 in many different ways. My prefered favourite is being very casual and using good disguises. you 
 can poison food to kill someone, dress up and take them out secretly or plant devices or bombs. 
 While playing extremely unique and fun levels, you also get to play a storyline. I dont want to 
 spoil anything for anyone but the end is a great twist. Another way of playing the game is all 
 out killing. You can start out by buying upgrades and buying big guns or you can get them while 
 you are there. This game is a definite keeper and should be played. It is for the stealth or killer 
 genre.
  
  ShLuBsTeR&gt;&gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grnipo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is the fourth in the Hitman series. It also ties into Hitman: Contracts in one mission, 
 but I won't say why due to spoilers.
  
  Now, Hitman Blood Money is not for the faint hearted. If you're new to the Hitman series like I 
 was, I recommend starting on the easy setting. If, however, you're feeling adventurous, play on 
 the second to hardest difficulty. Professional should be avoided unless you are of the hardcore 
 variety.
  
  Hitman Blood Money's gameplay is superb. When playing on the hardest difficulty, you will get screwed 
 over and over. Even on the easy setting you will be challanged. This, however, is the beauty of 
 it. The first time you kill your target, when you pull of the perfect hit, you will feel a strange 
 sensation of joy. This also plays into the fact that IO has made what seems like an unlimited way 
 to play the mission. In one mission, you have to get camera film out of your targets' wife's necklace. 
 When I first did the mission, I knocked her out and hid her inside the sauna. The second time I 
 played, I rigged the grill to blow up in her face, killing her and making it look like an accident. 
 This element of gameplay is excellent. If you successfully make a death look like an accident, 
 unless that person is the target, you will not be held accountable for it.
  
  The sound is excellent. You can hear the NPCs comment on how you look, or what you are doing. I 
 once heard an NPC comment on how uncomfortable I must be running in a tuxedo. See? Amazing. And 
 the music is just unbelieveable. Different music kicks in at different times, at can really get 
 your heart pounding.
  
  Overall, this game is a must buy for any fan of stealth games, and definately deserves a serious 
 look at by casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahfire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is definitely one of the better games in the series. Its strong sides include 
 a very well told story, characterization, and great level design, as well as all the other gameplay 
 treats we'd expect from a Hitman game. However, some rather straightforward solutions to mission 
 tasks make the game more linear than it used to be, and consequently, the replay value suffers 
 from it. Blood Money still have more replay value than most other games.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is definitely worth your money. It's a game with a lot of charm and personality. 
 It doesn't bring anything particularly new to the table, but it still has more than enough attributes 
 to impress. In my opinion, It's far the best game in the series. I didn't really liked the other 
 games, mainly becuase of the graphics.... well, I guess I'm a graphic whore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by stating that I've played every single game in the Hitman series. Through the 
 mediocre Codename 47 , the excellent Silent Assassin and up until the horrible Contracts . I never 
 thought for a second that Blood money could actually top the second game in the series, but I was 
 wrong.
  
  In Blood Money you once again play as the silent assassin Mr. 47, the notorious contract killer 
 who can complete any mission and eliminate every target. and you will be going for a wide verity 
 of targets, from a washed up amusement park owner to drag lords and even other assassins like yourself.
 
  
  Not much have changed graphic-wise in the new game, but now you can switch from the normal Third-person 
 view to a First-person view, which is useful in close kills or targeting.
  other then that, the major change is in the gameplay. 47 still has his standard equipment (which 
 you can upgrade along with some weapons) , and the ranking system is pretty much the same, but now 
 you can hide bodies inside dumpsters, push people out of windows and fake accidental deaths wherever 
 you go.
  
  I have mentioned before that the game is a bit lacking in length, which is true, because you can 
 be complete any of the 13 missions in less then an hour if you are quick on your feet and dont 
 miss any opportunities to kill your target (s) in a quiet and secluded areas. although most of the 
 time you need to do the mission over and over again until you find the best (and quickest) way 
 to finish each mission.
  
  In short, the game is satisfying, thrilling and challenging - exactly what you would expect from 
 a game in the Hitman series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZakMasta101
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  With out a doubt the best in the series. First off I'll talk about the realism. HMBM features state 
 of the art graphics. You can easily see details such as wrinkles, folds, and creases in 47's clothes, 
 no matter what he is wearing. The realism of the water is amazing, and easily resembles Morrowind's. 
 Plus, this is the first game I have seen that allows you to see BULLETHOLES in people where you 
 shoot them. After several seconds the victim will 'bleed out' on the floor. But if you start dragging 
 the victim immediately, youll leave behind a convicting trail of blood. The AI in this game also 
 have scedualls. Everyone had to go to the bathroom one in a while, the cook might want a smoke, 
 and someone's got to take out that trash. The games AI are generaly pretty smart, and will follow 
 blood trails, and frisk you for weapons as you enter buildings. A VERY nice touch is the new 'accident 
 factor.' You can make the targets death look lik a complete accident in several ways. i. e., Pouring 
 lots of extra gas onto a grill at a party, pushing an unsuspecting victim off of a balcony, or 
 rigging a chanilier rope to break. You can also now stash bodies. i. e. Throw them over a railing, 
 of a boat, into a furnace, or into a freezer. There is also a new notority rating. Leaving witnesses 
 and evidence increases this rating. The higher your progressive rating the tighter the security 
 will be on your next assignment. You can decrease this rating by bribing civians, police officers, 
 and even the FBI. But beware, all of this costs money. Which you will get a large sum of upon completing 
 your mission. ou can use this to upgrade your weapons, buy kevlar vests, and lower the afor mentioned 
 notority rating. You will also lose money by leaving weapons, your suit, and bodies for Agency 
 to clean up. This is referred to as damage control. Like previous HM games, you have the option 
 to run n gun and kill everyone in sight (Leave no witnesses =] ) or go through the level without 
 anyone even knowing you were there. This game gives you extraordinary graphics, sound, and gameplay. 
 A game that can be called nothing but flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of hitman and as afan HITMAn blood mOny is the beast hitman that I play'd. IF you 
 don't now wot is HITMAN it about you geting pay to kil oder people. This game IS amzing you get 
 to kill people in alot of ways like push tthem ofer the fent or over the bout killdem hit a hamer 
 posian them and meny meny oder. In this game you have a to be carful how sr yuo and wer if you kill 
 your tarket and you get spoted by the camera or a civil then at the end of the mison it tells you 
 how much people notes you you can pay polis wicnes or by a new identaty and it real not nuch mony 
 you get lousds of mony jest by compliting 1 mison. You also get to upgrade your wepons like silentars 
 laisers and meny oder stuf. You get to go arownd the world in difrent locatino it so amzing. THis 
 game is amzing it somthing that you won't be disapointet :D it jest a grate game. People speack 
 in ther own languige and it cool. THIS GAME IS ... is jest grate go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  !! Spoilers!!; Cummon, how can I talk about this game without spoilers?
  
  This is my first Hitman game, but I guarantee you it's not my last! .. Unless 'you-know-who' pays 
 me a visit. I can picture it now:
  
  (Jimmy enters elevator and stands around) (Jimmy gets yanked into a hole in the ceiling by a thin 
 fibre strung across his neck, and is quickly strangled.) (Several seconds later, a bald man drops 
 from the ceiling, wearing Jimmy's clothes and carrying Jim's KeyCard.) (Bald man exits elevator)
 
  
  Anyway, this game scores all new levels of violence never before imagined! Strangulation, stabbing, 
 poisioning, nails, and a lot more, and good ol' fisty-cuffs when you're out of options. Not to 
 mention 24 different guns, with 5 different sets of gun-parts you're able to purchase! Set people 
 on fire!, or explodiate them!, or just push them off balconies*!, feed 'em to the gators!, how 
 bout just a good ol' fashioned assasination with a sniper rifle complete with advanced zoom, silencer 
 and bolt-action something-or-other that makes your mission a piece of cake!? (
  *haha; From Shakespeare?
  
  Music is awesome, but sometimes unpredictable. I might be walking 
 down a hallway when all of a sudden the music turns it's 'dangerous' mode on, which makes me panic 
 and actually end up in trouble, which I wouldn't have been but for the music. You get that? But 
 seriously, I've got Franz Schubert's Ellens dritter Gesang (aka 'Ave Maria' aka 'Hitman; Blood 
 Money' theme song) playing right now, and I'm not even playing the game. Rag-doll effect is when 
 the deceased NPC's body goes all loose, and you drag 'em about like a doll. It's very cool, and 
 sometimes looks very uncomfortable for the dead NPC.
  
  Interesting plot, fascinating characters, and a complete morale void in the protagonist Mr. 47. 
 Well, none of the characters have even the faintest whif of a conscience, but Agent 47 most of 
 all, which is interesting to say the least.
  
  Four different levels of gameplay, letting you return to each mission (at least) 4 times.
  
 
  But I gotta warn you; unless you want to hear a cocunut cracking and see a pretty violent animation, 
 you shouldn't take the butcher knife to the back of a party-goer's head. ... *WHOP*!
  
  AND Stay Away From the Christmas Level! Holy friggin' glitch-land!
  
  Play this game or Agent 
 47's gonna get you! He's gonna getchu! ... (dials the phone) Hello? Diana?... Yea, it's Jimmy. 
 I have another 'thing' for you to help me with.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3ds
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I've never before Blood Money had a chance to play any of the games in the Hitman series. When 
 Blood money was released I tried the demo and hated it. The demo consisted of the first level of 
 the game which happened to be the training mission. This gave me the impression that the game was 
 very linear. After trying the full game I can tell you it is anything but linear. Hitman: Blood 
 Money is a fun, creative, and a unique game. The best thing about Hitman is the freedom. Hitman 
 puts you in a level and forces you to figure out how to accomplish your goals. If you want you 
 can take your M4 or shotgun and kill everyone, or you could go for the coveted silent assassin 
 award. This means that no one sees you and you don't kill anyone except for your targets. This 
 is where the game is fun. It forces you to think creatively, to look at your surroundings. This 
 is, in my opinion, is the best part of the game. It leads to many memorable moments. Such as planting 
 a bomb in a guys briefcase and then blowing it up once he opens it. Accidents are one of my favorite 
 things in the game. It's when you kill your target and make it look like an accident. Like dropping 
 a piano on top of someone. Another cool aspect about Hitman Blood Money is weapon customization. 
 You are given five customizable weapons. Your Silverballer pistols, an mp5 smg, a shotgun, an m4 
 assault rifle, and a sniper rifle. You have limited upgrades at the beginning, but as you progress 
 in missions you unlock new upgrades. These upgrades range from things that help to silence your 
 weapons, make them more powerful, or items such as better lock picks.
  
  But like every game Hitman has it's faults. The enemy AI is one of my biggest problems with the 
 game. They often seem to be psychic as they some how know that you killed certain people even if 
 you left no trace. It can often be an annoyance because you'll have to revert to an old save if 
 you've screwed something up too much. Speaking of saves, Hitman's save system is another problem. 
 The game allows you to save any time you want during a mission, but as soon as you quit you loose 
 those saves. This is very annoying if you only have a half hour to play, as some of the mission 
 can take up to an hour.
  
  Overall Hitman Blood Money is a great game. If you've never had the joy of playing one of the Hitman 
 games I fully suggest Blood Money. It's a great break from the cookie cutter fps games, and is 
 a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geitenvla
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  I like the hitman series a lot and I know I'm not the only one. Yet many of you may not consider 
 me as a die hard fan because I never got to play the first two episodes. I dropped in on contracts 
 and I was so enjoyed by the stealthy game play, Hitman 4 was only the next logical step.
  
  You are mr. barcode, agent 47. A clone hitman with little remorse. The goal of the game is to eliminate 
 your assigned targets. How you do this, is completely up to you. Although the game encourages a 
 stealthy way of murdering your victims, you can also run in like an idiot a kill everyone on the 
 spot. This most certainly adds up to the replay value of the game.
  
  The AI in the game isn't really wonderful. They are programmed to do whatever they need to do, 
 but don't confuse them, 'cause they are going to run around totaly clueless of what to do or how 
 to get to you. It is perfectly possible to position yourself with any gun on a spot where the AI 
 doesn't now how to get and start a massacre. You'll see people walking towards dead bodies (now 
 that's one thing I wouldn't do after the guy next to me got sniped) , run around like idiots in 
 an invisible squared box or doing something else that is no doubt extremely stupid. Ai is more 
 Ad... artificial dumb*ss.
  Yet, if you play the game more stealthy the Ai works a little better. Sneak around peoples back 
 to slip in can be great fun. It is really rewarding to get to your victims without getting noticed. 
 The NPCs are programmed in a timecycle which is triggered if you cross a certain magic line. After 
 that they complete their route and keep doing that over and over again. Often this makes the game 
 predictable. On other times you may end up waiting a couple of minutes in order to get to someone 
 on a certain spot.
  
  The scoring system of the game is a real let down. Your objective is getting the silent assassin 
 rating, which is the highest you can get. In order to get this, you'll not only need to be really 
 stealthy but also stage as many accidents as you can. Now this can be fun for a while but as me 
 being a hitman, I want to slit throats, strangle, poison or whatever obscure way I can find to 
 end my victims life. Although this is possible it is being somewhat discouraged by the rating system 
 which seems to like accidents better. In my opinion you should always be a silent assassin, no 
 matter how or how many people you've killed aslong as there were no witnesses and no bodies found 
 during the mission.
  
  The intro music of Ave Maria really sets the tone for the story. In the menu you can see agent 
 47 on his funeral as the camera zooms out on this perspective each time you complete a mission. 
 Ambient sounds are rich but sometimes a little cut off. Good example would be the campaign messages 
 shouted by the wanna be president at the mardy grass parade. To often you hear the same text lines 
 which makes them repetitive and unreal. Weapons, there are plenty. From good old silverballers 
 to M4's. And even better, you can customize your standard weapons with a lot of extra features. 
 Different amo, lighter frames, scopes, lasersights... it is all there. Too bad this doesn't apply 
 to the weapons you take home after a mission.
  Also there are some melee weapons for you to play around with like knives and fibre wire.
  
 
  Now as for the graphics, there really isn't much to convey. They're pretty darn good. Although 
 you will need a high end computer in order to fully enjoy the game settings, which can be pretty 
 demanding. Especially the post render option is a real assault on your performance, so you better 
 bring a good graphics card with you.
  
  Hitman blood money is a good game, but a lot of work needs to be done in order to make this a classic. 
 Nevertheless, if this is your genre, you will have great fun playing this.
  The real strength of this title is your freedom to solve the kills. Although not always rewarded 
 by the score system, you can pretty much do whatever you like to get the job done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I had a difficult time writing this review. Ive been a fan of the Hitman series since the original 
 Codename 47, and while I enjoyed Blood Money, after I had finished the game, I couldnt think of 
 anything really noteworthy to say about it. The franchise has remained virtually unchanged since 
 the original game (with the obvious exception of some improvements in mechanics and graphics) , 
 and while thats not necessarily a BAD thing, its not likely to attract a lot of new converts. 
 By that I mean, if a player didnt like the first or second game, then Blood Money probably wont 
 change anyones opinion.
  
  Personally, Ive always thought of Hitman as a kind of acquired taste. The stealth elements and 
 open ended game maps are a welcome diversion from the standard fast-paced shoot-em-ups that dominate 
 the market. As in previous games, the mysterious assassin known only as 47 undertakes a series 
 of contract killings, working for an organization known as The Agency. An enigmatic back-story 
 that unfolds in cut scenes (and to a lesser extent, in the missions themselves) reveals that the 
 Agency is under attack from unknown forces, and 47 is charged with finding out the who-and-why 
 before everyone is wiped out. Its the series most engaging back-story yet, and it would have 
 been even more effective if the missions had a direct correlation to it. Granted, several of the 
 missions actually DO have tie-ins to the back-story, but several are pretty arbitrary, and feel 
 as if they were simply plugged in to add some playtime. (What the hell am I doing in Mississippi, 
 for Gods sake?) Given the looming threat to all Agency members, incorporating specific goals in 
 each assignment that tie back to a resolution would have helped create a greater sense of purpose.
 
  
  The missions themselves are as fun and challenging as ever, and in Blood Money, the player has 
 even more choices for successful completion. Large open-ended levels set in exotic locales provide 
 respectable eye-candy, and the ability to set up accidents adds an entertaining element to the 
 list of viable options for taking out the targets. (OK, I admit it... there's something gruesomely 
 satisfying about pushing someone into a shark tank or alligator pond.) Each assignment usually 
 involves from 1 to 3 victims, and figuring out the best way to take them down without being detected 
 requires a deliciously maddening trial and error approach that lies at the core of Hitmans popularity. 
 Now, Im a firm believer in the old adage if it aint broke, dont fix it, and hence I certainly 
 dont think every new release has to strive for some revolutionary threshold. By staying true to 
 its core elements, Hitman has given me 4 great games (3, if you count Contracts as a re-do of 
 the original) , and countless hours of sneaky fun.
  
  But I must confess, I find myself at a bit of a crossroads here, given that I was unable to find 
 anything remarkable in Blood Money, despite the fact that I thoroughly enjoyed the experience. 
 To their credit, the developers have tried to add some fresh new elements, but they feel sort of 
 half-baked. Agent 47 now gets paid for his services, and he can use the money to upgrade his weapons. 
 Although deciding which options to purchase can be entertaining, its also pretty much irrelevant, 
 particularly when you consider that the ultimate goal in each assignment is to secure the coveted 
 Silent Assassin ranking. The 100-round drum magazine upgrade on the M4 can be a lot of fun at parties, 
 granted, but putting it to use pretty much eliminates any chance you have of getting thru the level 
 undetected. Additionally, Eidos On-line now provides a ranking site, where players can post and 
 compare their statistics for various missions. Unfortunately, the site is pretty wonky, and has 
 been completely over-run by players who obviously exploit some of the game cheats to garner the 
 highest positions, which makes any comparisons rather pointless. Although this enhancement is 
 a cool idea, it feels like it was just cobbled together to serve as a new feature. (Note to Eidosseems 
 like you could have an administrator look in on the site from time to time to kick out all the 
 ridiculous stats.) At the end of the day, the core game-play is pretty much the same as its been 
 throughout the series. Again, thats not necessarily a BAD thing, given how much fun its been 
 up to now, but I personally think its time for SOMETHING remarkable to come out of the next release.
 
  
  The Bottom Lineif youve played previous Hitman games and didnt find them to your liking, then 
 Blood Money probably wont change your mind. If you ARE a fan, then youll definitely have a lot 
 of fun with this release, even though theres really nothing new here. The back-story has been 
 made more prevalent than in any previous Hitman game, and I hope this trend continues. Allowing 
 the actions in an early assignment to have an impact on later assignments will help make future 
 releases even more engaging. And I for one am not quite ready to place 47 in the Inactive File. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This is definetely the best hitman game to date, and I can't wait for the next one. This hitman 
 fixes most, if not all, of the annoyances from the 2nd. The guns are all decent, the graphics are 
 excellent for a 3rd person game, and the music is GREAT. At first I wasn't to thrilled with the 
 game. Every stage felt like a big maze, that is until I learned about the map :P You can perform 
 the hits basically anyway that you wish but I prefer the silent assassin approach as apposed to 
 run and gun. The characters are nice too, many models are used over for guards or civilians but 
 I don't really care. Ummm the only downside to this game is that some of the mission objectives 
 get kinda repeptitive and it takes a while to learn the maps. the end :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is an outstanding thrill ride from beginning to end. Each game in the series 
 just gets more sophisticated. To detract from this game on the basis of its similarity with the 
 other games in the series is borderline hater-ism. The game is about being a Hitman, and there 
 is no better way to do it than this.
  
  Graphics: If you own a Next Gen graphics card, the PC version has more polygons and atmospheric 
 effects than the 360 version. As such, its easily in the top-10 best looking shooters of all time. 
 Yes the engine under the hood has changed little since Hitman: Contacts, but the new light processing 
 effects more than make up for any lack.
  
  Sound: The audio in Hitman is state of the art. The sound effect of the silencer alone is a reason 
 to buy the game. The music is equal to a full-blown Hollywood blockbuster. Absolutely exhilarating. 
 I have honestly loaded the game up just to hear the menu music.
  
  Replay: For the first time in the series, there are over half-dozen opportunities to pick off each 
 of your targets. If you desire to perform the perfect hit, there is a whole kingdom of replay fun 
 to be had. In that, its easy to perform a messy kill and win, but, performing the perfect hit requires 
 terrific timing and skill. With each hit you earn more money to upgrade the sexy gun gear that 
 makes it all possible. -Silencers, ammo, lasers sights, oh my. Gripe: I want to see Agent 47s 
 hide out fully realized in the next installment. Its cool to have a home base and it would be nice 
 to have more interaction with it like we saw a little of in the past.
  
  Bottom Line: One of the best shooters period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemuffins000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Well this one was a good one! I have never played any of the other Hitman games but I got into 
 this one so fast it was like I knew what to expect. Gameplay for the PC version is outstanding! 
 From hiding behind walls, to taking people out with the W2000 sniper, it never gets old. There 
 is one problem though. When you install this game on your computer on level 3 and 6 it will automatically 
 shut down and crash at a certain point. The v1.2 patch doesn't help. The only thing that helps 
 is to slow the sound acceleration in the DirectX menu to basic . Another thing; on level 7 if you 
 drop anything the game crashes. I have never solved that problem. Oh, and one more thing (I take 
 from Jigsaw) Oh yes, there will be blood. 
  The graphics on this game basically make the entire game on the PC version. If you don't have a 
 good graphics card (nVidia GeForce 6800/ATI Raedon X800 or higher) don't get this game. You'll 
 find out that a new GPU isn't all that expensive but it's hard to maintain, especially if you don't 
 know what you're doing.
  The sound quality is also good. I mean to me sound isn't a big deal. Unless it gets so distorted 
 that you have to wait 15 minutes for the game to tell you basic instructions. The value on this 
 game has never been great. I have waited 6 months for the price to drop on the Xbox version but 
 it stayed the same. Finally I got sick of it and bought the PC version.
  
  So, in conclusion Hitman: Blood Money is a great game all-in-all but its technical glitches and 
 graphics card requirements really bring it down
  
  Rent or Buy
  If you're getting this game for PS2 or Xbox rent it first and see if you like the  
 type of games. If you get it for PC you really have no choice. It's either get or don't get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronygreat
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  So, it was a good game. But I don't know how many times I got angry and said WHAT THE HELL? , cause 
 everyone seem to be God at this game somehow. And I played at expert through the game and it said 
 Increased AI , but in my opinion it really didn't have any AI. Because who would know that one 
 bullet from my gun is a bullet to be feared and not like the other jackasses around that place 
 that are shooting their guns off all the time? Well, that's not increased AI. That's pure stupidity.
 
  
  And how stupid is it to get shot at if you happen to walk on the roof dressed as the gang around 
 there? Well, I got pretty pissed when guests (at the same mission) started shooting at me from 
 100 feets away. Really, is their first thought in the head when they see someone on the roof: There's 
 a bad guy who is going to kill someone, so let's shoot him . Well, obviously it was. And even so 
 if I happen to fire a shot like the other guests with their Six Shooter around the lake they know 
 I'm a bad guy and have to eliminate me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game. And like I said this game has nice smooth grapichs mixed with a intresting 
 driven story but the real reason for me to write this review is not to honour the game. Frankly 
 speaking I was very pleased with the game and it game me entertaining for at least 10 hours or 
 more.
  
  However, the game really lacks the stability to play like a real hitman. I remember doing the mission 
 Till death do us part and I killed the guy who was getting married just then with sniper and unseen 
 by anyone - at least they didn't see me. And afterwards I hid myself in a closet until the red 
 bar would go down and it started to do that and suddenly three guys got into the same room I was 
 in. They seemed to be pretty aware of my whereabouts and mission failed cause I wanted to do it 
 hitman and unseen-style.
  
  And how stupid is it to get shot at if you happen to walk on the roof dressed as the gang around 
 there? Well, I got pretty pissed when guests (at the same mission) started shooting at me from 
 100 feets away. Really, is their first thought in the head when they see someone on the roof: There's 
 a bad guy who is going to kill someone, so let's shoot him . Well, obviously it was. And even so 
 if I happen to fire a shot like the other guests with their Six Shooter around the lake they know 
 I'm a bad guy and have to eliminate me.
  
  So, it was a good game. But I don't know how many times I got angry and said WHAT THE HELL? , cause 
 everyone seem to be God at this game somehow. And I played at expert through the game and it said 
 Increased AI , but in my opinion it really didn't have any AI. Because who would know that one 
 bullet from my gun is a bullet to be feared and not like the other jackasses around that place 
 that are shooting their guns off all the time? Well, that's not increased AI. That's pure stupidity.
 
  
  So be warned, you might enjoy this game alot. But you might get some loud F: s coming out of your 
 mouth making you wanna kill everything and everyone at every mission. Which makes the name Hitman 
 a very improper name for the game.
  
  That's it. Enjoy it. It's good but it really gets down to deep frustration levels sometimes. Not 
 just at the one mission I talked about, but somewhere in every mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lineker89
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  In this day and age it's hard to find a game that grips people. Most don't even compel you to complete 
 them. But while wading through all the cr*p, you occasionally find yourself a gem.
  
  Blood Money is truely a gem, albeit an underated one. With a compelling plot, beautifull graphics 
 (it has high system requirements) and plenty of speech, it's enough to keep you interested for 
 the duration of the game.
  
  The third installment introduces a new accident system, where you can take down your enemies in 
 a series of unfortunate events. For example, if your behind someone on a stairway you can push 
 him down the steps, cause a barbeque to ignite, make chandelliers drop, and so forth.
  
  The level designs are very good, my personal favourite being the opera house. So many different 
 ways to complete a mission, either by being a stealthy assasin or running in guns blazing, the 
 choice is yours. You're equipped with the right tools for each job, be it prototype injections 
 or souped up silver ballers.
  
  The AI varies depending on what difficulty you're playing on. On the easy setting it's very forgiving, 
 but if you opt for silent assasin then you're in for a whole lot of trouble. One thing to remember 
 though, always outnumbered but never outgone.
  
  To sum it up, Blood Money is an excelent game, worth every penny spent for it. If you think you're 
 a hardcore gamer, here's one that'll definatley test you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NasHHHbk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This happens to be my first Hitman game and I must say the game is very fun and can easily eat 
 up a chunk of hours from my day.
  
  Gameplay is very fun, very open ended and gives you tons of options to accomplish your goals, which 
 can be very fun and adds alot of replay value.
  
  The only drawback about the gameplay though, is it can be sometimes frustrating at harder difficulty 
 settings or getting close to finishing a mission only to make a simple mistake that could force 
 you to start the mission over again. Also, theres lots of instances where the details given (or 
 lack thereof) can make missions very frustrating. You've accomplished everything on the list, with 
 1 thing left to do (other than escape) and you cant seem to find the item or person, which can eat 
 up alot of time running around back and forth, and sometimes leading you to trouble, which is something 
 you dont want if youre trying to be stealthy.
  
  Graphics-wise, the game looks exceptionally well, nothing new out of the ordinary that I havent 
 seen on other games, but nonetheless, the graphics are certainly up to date and looks nicely polished.
 
  
  I would recommend this game to many people who love stealth games (or shooting games, lol) , though 
 you might wanna try the demo first before purchasing just to see if this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Agent47 returns once again, and with style!
  
  Graphics : Great graphics... Not much to complain about.
  
  Gameplay : Kinda more of the same, 
 but with new options like gun customization, and u can now hide bodies in dumpsters!!! woohoo!!! 
 Anyway the stealth action is nice, and so is the shooting, and the many ways in which you can kill 
 the targets.
  At times nice storyline, but somewhat generic.
  
  Sound : Ah... Something to say! The music is just awesome! The ambience, the gunshots, the people 
 talking, the footsteps... everything sounds amazing... And again, especially the music.
  
  Replay value : Due to the fact that there are many ways to pass a level and kill the target, the 
 missions are replayable a few times, but after that, its boring.
  
  If you liked previous hitmans and are looking forward to a few improvements, you should check this 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  If you liked the previous Hitman games, you are going to like this one. It has everything the previous 
 installments had to offer, and more. Apart from the varied and beautiful locations and countless 
 ways to accomplish your task that have always been the trademark of the series, there is also an 
 engaging storyline, some new tricks (like knocking people out by punching them in the head, hiding 
 bodies in containers or throwing them overboard, and vaulting over obstacles) and the ability to 
 upgrade your weapons and equipment. You will also have to take into account additional factors, 
 like the number of witnesses of your deeds, the level of noise with which you went about your work, 
 and whether or not you left your suit and/or custom weapons at the crime scene  all of these affect 
 your rating, and the highest rating will be pretty hard to achieve (although I, for one, never 
 bothered) . The graphics are pretty good (if not without a few glitches) , although you'd need quite 
 a powerful computer to be able to enjoy them and play smoothly at the same time. The soundtrack 
 is not the masterpiece that it was in Silent Assassin, but much better than in Contracts. Unfortunately, 
 not only the good things from the previous games have made it into this one. The AI is simply atrocious 
 sometimes: you fire at a crowd of people, and they keep walking like nothing is happening; guards 
 discover you with a body, but don't seem to be able to put two and two together; a cop starts shooting 
 at you simply for trying to enter a nightclub without a costume; you kill a man in a toilet, take 
 his clothes and exit without the guards (who just saw the man enter) noticing any difference; people 
 at a party keep dancing after an explosion killed several of them. You would have thought that 
 the game developers would have solved some of these problems, but no, they are still there, and 
 that can detract considerably from the game experience. It's no worse than in the previous games, 
 though, so if you could stand it in Silent Assassin and Contracts, it shouldn't be a problem for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessi_dusen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Well at least they stayed true to the game style.
  
  Graphics: I dunno if its just me but this game comes off as just a quickly ported version. The 
 graphics are pretty polygonal and I know Ive read peoples reviews saying how great the models 
 are but... Come on The enemy models are very perfect darkish which to me shows a lack of effort 
 since they hide the polygons with shiny textures. Agent 47s head is noticeably jagged. The world 
 textures are nice in parts with colorful foliage and nicely detailed interiors. There are some 
 clipping issues with people standing at doors and a few times I noticed some (unintentional) cracks 
 you could see through in the walls. The compression of the textures could use a little work but 
 overall I take the graphics with a grain of salt knowing it came originally from last gen systems. 
 Gameplay: I do have to say the game retained its fun nature and if anything increased the openness 
 with how you carry out your missions. Controls are spot on and the first person view is very handy 
 at times. The weapons you find to do your dirty work are classic and the purchasing system increases 
 replay value. Enemy AI is something to be desired. All in all its still as fun to play as it always 
 has been.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is great but needs a little work when synching to charact4er mouth movement. 
 In surround this games sound really is wonderful. The music tracks are .. OK but the ambiance in 
 each mission was well done.
  
  All in all the game is a fun addition to the series and accepting the fact that it was intended 
 for the last gen; playing it on next gen systems doesnt really detract from the game so long as 
 you arent only interested in graphics. Otherwise this is a tough game with many options to bring 
 you back time and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I have only played one other version of Hitman, and that was the second installment of the game. 
 I found that this game was much more fun than the previous version by leaps and bounds. The biggest 
 problem I had with the previous game was the fact that you had to sneak everywhere in the game. 
 It made the game tedious. In Blood Money you are pretty much anonymous and can go anywhere you 
 want without making a scene as long as it's not a restricted area. This give you the opportunity 
 to scope out an area and make a plan. As long as you fit into the area you are in you can just 
 about do anything you want, this kept the frustration level low. There are so many different ways 
 to complete each mission that the replay value of the game is through the roof. If you love to 
 plot and plan you can find many different ways to eliminate your targets, some are amazingly cool. 
 If you prefer to just blast your way around you can do that as well. There is no penalty for not 
 doing it the right way. As long as you keep your cover and don't make too much of a mess you can 
 complete your mission. The sound and graphics are excellent and the AI is reasonable for as complicated 
 a game as this is. Playing at the normal level was not too difficult, but there are a couple harder 
 levels for those looking for more of a challenge. There is even a decent plot that runs through 
 the game that has a great ending. Overall a great game at a decent price for anyone looking for 
 some stealth action fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ears1991
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Well the graphics and all that are brilliant, gameplay is a bit slow at first getting to know what 
 to do but playing through was very fun and much better i thought. Its very hard game but fun still 
 to just go around pwning the civilians :D
  I recommend this as it has a good mix of violence galore and some strategical stuff if you know 
 what i mean, good game go get it :)
  
  Pretty good value seeing as i got it for &pound;15 and played it a lot so yeah good game overall
 
  
  Woohoo review number 2 lol how useless is this i bet you all want to read all my reviews D: please 
 do lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sthadji
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  I bought this game and at the beginning I was a bit skeptic because I was never a fan of the Hitman 
 series. But from the very beginning of the game I realized this was going to be different. The 
 graphics of the game are awesome, and the general look of the game is great. Gameplay is SUPERB, 
 some really nice moves from 47, but I do have a complaint here. Perhaps it's just me but it seems 
 this game is too difficult at times to be played without the assistance of the game guide. I simply 
 love the settings of the levels, absolutely spot on with the detail and all, and the sound is phenomenal. 
 This has to be one of the best games I've played on the PC for a long time. It's one of those games 
 where you get hooked and just can't stop playing. No other game has done this for me to this extent. 
 Twelve thousand thumbs up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a triumph. To be making the best game of the series after 4 other installments 
 shows that Eidos hasn't just rested on the success of the brand.
  
  Graphical superiority, more imaginative scenarios and that same excellent music really define this 
 game and if you're a fan of Hitman, it's essentially more of the same but better. So it's easier 
 to point out just the things that don't work.
  
  The main problem is that the blood money system just doesn't work. Even if you just massacre everyone 
 in a level, you'll still get enough money to definately be able to purchase every upgrade you require, 
 and if you even attempt to be stealthy you'll have absolutely no difficulty. Also, if you have 
 any interest in doing it properly instead of just running in all guns blazing, there's no point 
 in using anything other than your silenced silverballers for the whole game - why bother upgrading 
 an SMG that you can never use anyway?
  
  The notoriety, again, makes no real difference. Because you're paid at least $400,000 a level - 
 and the highest bribe is $200,000 - you can clear it anytime you want and it makes no difference 
 to any of the gameplay. I can kind of see what they're trying to do but ultimately it just complicates 
 what worked fine before.
  
  Also, the storyline doesn't really play out as much as it should - there comes a point in the game 
 where you learn that 47 is the agencies last agent, and that some shadowy group of people have 
 been picking off the agents. Well, you never really see anything like that going on, not even in 
 cutaways, so why are you meant to suddenly care?
  
  Otherwise, couldn't recommend it enough. On completion I started again on the higher difficulty 
 level, it's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bourbons3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the fourth game in the Hitman Series. It is great for both returning and 
 new Hitman players. I had never played a Hitman game before Blood Money, so I wasn't sure what 
 to expect. Luckily, I was pleasently surprised.
  
  Hitman fulfills a lot of different aspects of the shooter and adventure games. It provides a whole 
 array of levels with different tasks and rewards. This appeals to adventure gamers because of the 
 complexity of some of the levels, as well as the challenge. Because of the range of difficulty 
 settings, players can learn to play the game effectively in a short amount of time.
  
  People who like shooter games will like the shooting side of Blood Money, which is pretty good. 
 It allows the player to switch between first-person and third-person view, so it caters for more 
 people. There is also a large selection of guns, upgrades and accessories for you to buy. This 
 also throws a bit of strategy in to the game.
  
  People who like stealth games are also sure to enjoy this game. With a range of alternative weapons 
 (such as poison, fibrewire and sedative) that all involve stealth, Blood Money pute quite a focus 
 on it. Some levels require the use of stealth, but utually its just fun to sneak up on someone 
 and kill them quietly.
  
  With an interesting group of levels, targets and challenges, Hitman: Blood Money is good at being 
 a shooter, an adventure and a stealth game. It has something for almost anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyfear
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is the latest installment to the Hitman series from Eidos. Firstly, the game 
 comes off really strong, with a strong story and strong game play. There doesn't seem to be any 
 great leaps that Blood Money makes, except for the graphics and the new system where your actions 
 affect the next mission.
  Hitman Blood Money isn't a hard game to learn as it also comes with it's own tutorial. The game 
 also includes fine lighting and the AI seems to run fairly smoothly.
  If you've played the previous Hitman games, Hitman Blood Money shouldn't seem any more different. 
 It still has it's same interface and controls don't seem to have changed either.
  
  Overall Hitman Blood Money is a suburb game for those who want to play with stealth. It isn't much 
 of a game for people who run in guns blazing yet that's still a possibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micropact
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a very superb game. it has wonderful looking graphics and textures providing 
 you have a high spec gaming rig. I t has alot of replayability options and is overall very enjoyable. 
 Overall my favorite aspect of this game is the weapon modification feature. It allows you to be 
 very creative in the way you carry out you contracts and makes the game more replayable. There 
 is also the ability to make your various murders look like accidents or suicides which is something 
 i have never seen in a game before. As for the AI, I was also pretty impressed there. The guards, 
 cops, thugs and other enemys are quite intelligent and handle most of the situation you throw at 
 them very well. For example the cops tend to call for backup when they encounter you wielding a 
 weapon of any sort. the sound in the game is great for what the game is. The guns sound realistic 
 and so do the other various effects. There are also many other nice things you can do such as taking 
 human shield hostages and the classic fiber wire execution. The missions, though there are not 
 many, are also very enjoyable and have some fun and destructive things you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  i have swore figures but... i must do this for the sake of all people...
  
  i played the demo... getting the game next week and OMG!!! i have never been so into a stealth 
 action game since... the first splinter cell... this is just the beggining of a great friendship 
 me and agent 47... as we will go do missions in a proffesional way... and well make people fall 
 off edges :)
  
  graphics (in this demo version) are amazing and im happy my computer can run it so good... sound 
 is SICK!!! and gameplay is just off the walls and i can tell the story is going to be great... 
 cant wait to buy the full version
  
  when i do i will once again update this becouse OMG!!! its just too much i am going to explode 
 if i wait any longer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddcromax
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the series, the latest installment won't disappoint. While you can, as always, 
 run through the mission and kill everyone in your path, the game will reward you for remaining 
 incognito to eliminate the target. You can accomplish this by knocking an NPC out and hiding the 
 body, stealing disguises to gain access to different areas, and making the hit look like an accident. 
 New to the series is a notoriety system.
  
  The more evidence and witnesses you leave behind, the easier it will be for guards to detect you 
 in future levels. Also new to the series is a reward and weapon upgrade system. While the bulk 
 of the money you make is for simply completing the assignment, you will earn extra for finishing 
 the mission quietly. The money can be used to purchase upgrades for your five standard weapons 
 (Silverballers, MP5, M4, SP12 Shotgun, and W2000 Sniper) .
  
  The game's graphics aren't bad, but if you have the PC version (and a high-end PC) , you can change 
 the graphics settings to look superb. The only negative thing you could is that the Artificial 
 Intelligence isn't very smart, and some of the animations are broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dixiee
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money never gets boring. You can replay a mission in many different ways. You do the 
 missions the way you want to there is really no wrong way even though silent assassin is preferred. 
 When you finish a mission you read about it in the newspaper later. It tells you what gun you used, 
 how many people died, how they died and any other evidence you left at the scene of the crime. 
 When you leave bodies at the scene and someone discovers them while you are playing the mission 
 they will put them in a body bag. You can also customize your guns any way you want. You can take 
 peoples guns away, take people hostage, and completing a mission without directly killing anyone, 
 by creating an accident , or making it look like the character committed suicide. You can also, 
 like in the other drag bodies and take other characters clothes. Every time you pick up a characters 
 gun and keep it until you finish the mission it is available from your arsenal so you can select 
 it for the next mission. The game also has very good and detailed graphics. There are bullet wounds 
 in you when you get shot and shell casing on the ground. Blood Money is definitely the best in 
 the hitman series yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  We see from the very start of this game that 47 is dead - he is layed out at his funeral in the 
 opening menu screens. The game takes place as Alexadner Leyland Cayne explains to a reporter the 
 events that lead to 47's death - the missions of the game therefore take place in the past, after 
 the events of Hitman 2. In one mission he has to rescue Agent Smith (who has appeared in all the 
 other games) by injecting him with a serum that makes him appear to be dead, and then reviving 
 him with an antidote later and rescuing him from a morgue. Soon after this is the Opera House mission 
 - at the end of this level we see someone with a gun following 47 off down the street, and this 
 is how he gets shot, leading to the events of Hitman : Contracts. The rest of the game takes place 
 after Contracts, but still in the past - 47 knows there are assassins after him, and tries to get 
 to the bottom of it. Along the way several attempts are made on his life, and eventually him and 
 Diana are all that is left of the agency. The trail eventually leads him to a Las Vegas party, 
 full of Assassins after him - Diana tells him this is the end, he should try to find out what he 
 can, but they won't be communicating again. 47 kills his rival assassins and escapes - Agent Smith 
 then asks him to take out an Assassin who is going to kill the President. 47 infiltrates the whitehouse 
 and faces off with his greatest rival assassin, 'The Albino'. Back at his hideout, Diana comes 
 to visit him - she explains that the building is surrounded by hundreds of SWAT members, but she 
 will help him escape - she hands him a briefing, but whike he is distracted reading it, she stabs 
 him in the back with a syringe. At the end, we see 47 dead at his funeral - Diana puts some lipbalm 
 on, kisses him and walks away. The credits then begin to roll - however, if you start to hammer 
 the controls, 47 begins to wake up - the syringe Diana injected him with was the same as the one 
 47 used on Agent Smith, and her lip balm contained the antidote. 47 wakes up and slaughters everyone 
 at his funeral, including Cayne and the reporter, leaving no witnesses.
  
  Above all, I recommend this game and certainly can't wait till Hitman 5 develops! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraNoSuna
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is addictive. You don't need to know fancy buttons or a difficult storyline to play, 
 either. You're a hitman: that's all there is to it. Hired on different missions, you can assassinate 
 roughly a dozen different people in various ways. Unlike most games, you aren't limited to the 
 simple handgun or pocketknife. While those are still options (for all you old fashioned folk) you 
 can choose to take out your victims in several other interesting ways: poisen, suffocation, strangling- 
 it's all there. You'll have a blast testing out all the different ways to satisfy your inner sadist.
 
  
  The settings are also very well done with top of the line graphics. You can be set in a peaceful 
 neighborhood where you must avoids citizens wandering eyes in order to take out your project; you 
 may even be situated in a dirty warehouse full of hostages (whom you may or may not choose to take 
 pity on) . Although the music that plays in the background can become an occassional nusance, for 
 the most part it remains realistic and enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay is rather easy. You find out fairly quick how to catch on to pulling out your gadgets, 
 dragging bodies, movement, etc. There aren't a million buttons you need to know and memorize like 
 many other games on the market nowadays.
  
  The positive: It's a very enjoyable game. You won't want to stop until you've reached the end.
 
  
  The negative: Very short for what you might expect. It seems like as soon as you start, you're 
 halfway done.
  
  The point: Satisfy your inner sadist. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizzarshady
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A MUST HAVE IF U EVER PLAYED OTHER HITMANS. THE MISSIONS ARE REALLY FUN AND HAVE A LOT 
 TO OFFER. IF YOU HAVE A GOOD COMPUTER U'LL BE LUCKY CUZ THE GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING IN THIS GAME. 
 THERES ALSO LOTS BLOOD AND WEAPONS. U CAN ALSO CUSTOMIZE YOUR OWN WEAPONS WHICH IS PRETTY COOL. 
 THERE ARE DIFFERENT DIFFICULTY OPTIONS IN THIS GAME SO IF IT GETS TO EASY YOU CAN CHANGE IT TO 
 HARDER OR PRO. THE BEST PART OF THIS GAME IS THAT YOU GET ADDICTED TO KILLING PEOPLE AND ITS REALLY 
 FUN. WHAT I REALLY LIKE IN THE GAME IS THE SOUND. THE FIRING OF WEAPONS SOUNDS REALLY REALISTIC. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshin836
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Blood Money is the best game in the Hitman series. It does so many more things than the previous 
 games and also builds on a lot of what has come before. Of course, you're 47 once again, assigned 
 to do missions (once again) for the Agency. The twist this time is that the Agency is getting gunned 
 down by another organization. The graphics are amazing to say the least, Blood Money outdoes the 
 previous games graphics by miles. Everything from models to the locations are a lot more lively 
 and detailed.
  
  The sound is really good as well with the same great music (from the same series composer) and 
 same great voice acting you've come to expect of the series.
  
  The gameplay is now retuned a bit and offers a LOT more options on how your kill your target (s) . 
 However, the AI is still a bit wonky and clumsy to say the least. I don't know of any rehab in 
 California where you get SHOT for pushing a fellow rehab member over.
  
  There's a lot of levels this time around. Luckily this game is a lot longer than Contracts was 
 and you get about 12 levels in which to carry out your dirty lil assignments. 12 levels filled 
 with a good amount of replay value! I beat this game a couple weeks ago and I still find myself 
 coming back to it. Point is, if you love the Hitman franchise and have stayed with it for this 
 long, you owe it to yourself to check out Blood Money. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWiggles0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Ah, is there any concept more sophisticated than seeing how to kill a man without anyone noticing? 
 Hitman: Blood Money is not only the best game in the series, it is easily one of the best games 
 of the year, if not the decade. It's challenging, creative, and has a kickass soundtrack. the only 
 downside is that the game is over a wee bit too soon. But aside from that, itman: Blood Money will 
 take you to All over America, from Lousiana to Las Vegas to Baltimore to Colorado to even the Whitehouse, 
 each time with someone to kill. How does one go about ending their targets? Agent 47 has more than 
 enough tools at his disposal, there is the classic garotte, as well as a full customizable arsenal. 
 Plus there is even an entirely new way to murder, with accidents. Say, for example, an unsuspecting 
 bystander were to walk underneath a dangling chandelier, then at that moment, the chain snaps, 
 causing the chandelier to fall and kill the person. Who's to blame? No one. Plus, to top the entire 
 game off, a newspaper is avaliable to read and see how your actions are being publicized. Beautiful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  When I launched my copy of Hitman Blood Money (Refered as Hitman :BM from now on) it looked the 
 same as the other hitman games, just plain and kind of boring. The game first puts you in the Hide 
 Out which is a part I don't understand at all... why do I need to see where Agent 47 lives? there 
 is no point in that. After you escape the hide out you go to the first mission which is easy because 
 even if you do it on PRO the agency still guides you step by step. However after the first mission 
 the game gets extremely hard and sometimes even impossible. In the missions of the Casino for example, 
 there is not alot of places you can kill the targeted people. It makes you give up and just shoot 
 around all the people, I don't remember this in the other hitman games... you had a few chances 
 and you could escape without killing every securty gaurd on site. However, if you can get pass 
 these REDICULIUS hard part hitman: BM won't let you down... To conclude this review, every fan 
 of the hitman seires should by this game, but if you are new to the seires then this is probably 
 not the best place to start. I'd reccomend Hitman: Silent Assaisn, and also Hitman: Contracts as 
 a good game. The game delivers a good supply of humor but not as good as the other hitman games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heck100
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  We've all felt it at least once. That one person that makes you snap. Perhaps it's that **** English 
 teacher in High School who failed you, or that dude who pocketed your last few frosty beverages 
 on the way out of your apartment one night, or maybe it was just that ass-clown that cut you off 
 in traffic on the way home. Either way, all you wanted at that moment was to follow said target 
 to work or home and put a bullet in their noggin.
  
  Well, now you can live out that morbid fantasy guilt free and without facing 10-20 for manslaughter.
 
  
  Hitman: Blood Money build on an already established franchise with solid graphics, believable AI 
 and excellent open-ended gameplay. Want to take out your target with a sniper rifle? Can do. Prefer 
 to blow said target up with explosives. No problem. Prefer the up-close and personal lethal injection 
 in the neck? Hitman: Blood Money has you covered.
  
  I've not played the prior installments to the series, but H: BM converted me in the very first stage 
 and target. Your goals as hitman extraordinaire Agent 47 are clearly defined from the beginning 
 of each contract. But the means you execute each job is entirely up to you. To be fair, stealth 
 and subtlety work more effectively than the guns blazing approach, but both are possible.
  
  The most enticing aspect of this game is it's replay-ability. You can work though each contract, 
 taking your target/s out quietly and with finesse. Then you can replay the same level and bust 
 out the big guns, blaze a lead-lined path to your mark to achieve the same end result. Then, for 
 a challenge, restrict yourself to the up close and personal piano wire for all your kills and you 
 still haven't exhausted all the methods of finishing a level.
  
  Creativity and invention makes this a very accessible 50+ hour game given it's replayability.
 
  
  Easily the most recommendable 3rd person perspective tactical stealth game of the past year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itayay1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  gameplay
  i played the hitman series i grew up on these games i finished them all and i think that the gameplay 
 of blood money is al that you need it has every thing fans asked for and i just really loved that 
 you have alot of ways to kill your targets not just one but alot because you can use all of 47's 
 new abillitys to your advantage at any way if its steakth or guns blazing
  
  the fings that changed thougt are few things that might disapoint fans or evan make them happy 
 like the notoriety system that i really like, baisicly if you'll leave a crime scene with alot 
 of witnesses and bodys in your next mission you will be alot easier to detect and that means that 
 the guns blazing is not an option also you will get the news paper of tomorow after the assasination 
 so you will know exactly how much people will suspect you another thing i liked in the notoriety 
 system that the news paper will change acording to what you'v done in the mission. another change 
 is the accidents the game encoureges you to make the assasination look like just an accident and 
 it gives fans of the series a new challenge but it dosent says that if you will go the classic 
 way tou will get less money
  
  sound
  the sound in hitman is wondefull people will speak in diffrent langues according to the locations 
 and every new place you will be the sound will change almost to a completly diffrent one and that's 
 what makes hitman blood money's money so wonderfull
  
  design
  what sure makes hitman blood money a great game is the enviroments and places you play in each 
 and every one of them is completly diffrent and makes each and every mission more tough and because 
 the game encorages you to use the enviroments to your advantege it makes it so fun trying yo play 
 a mission again and try to see if you can complete the objectives in a diffrent way
  
  graphics
  the graphics in hitman blood money are beautiful especialy in the x360 the lightning 
 the shading every thing is just rendered beutifully
  
  diffrences
  if you dont know what version of the game to buy the best two are the x360 and the pc because the 
 x360 version looks better and also have some unlockble achievments but the pc version almost compares 
 with the graphics and have much better controls i think
  
  fans may think that blood money may not be the best himan game i still love it but if you didnt 
 like the first games and you just want to play hitman as a shooter forget it because this game 
 is for patient gamers
  
  have fun
  Itay from israel
  (and thats why my english sucks) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruan404
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  This game is very high in detail and very fun. U can do almost any killing move you can think of 
 from strangeling to hanging adn you steal the gun out of there hands. you can fiber wire them the 
 graphics is very good. You can see alll the blood affects adn if you shoot them the blood shoots 
 agaisnt the wall you can drag bodies then the blood will also drag. You can upgrade your guns adn 
 snipe. THe physics is awesome if you drop a bodie down a clif it will flip with anything it hits. 
 The guns are realistic and are instant kill if you shoot their heads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rencie
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is my first Hitman game, and it is unlikely that it will be my last. Eidos 
 has done a great job continuing the mythos of Agent 47 without alienating players new to the series. 
 Even knowing little about previous Hitman games and Agent 47, I did not find myself at a loss during 
 the intriguing narrative that was told through a series of flashbacks and recollections.
  
  The highlight of Hitman: Blood Money is the game settings. From the tranquil suburban neighbourhood 
 to an infernal Vegas party, and from the humble American south in Mississippi to the boisterous 
 New Orleans during Mardi Gras, each location is beautifully rendered and created for your gaming 
 pleasure. The realistic settings make your missions more immersive. Dont be surprised if you find 
 yourself taking your time not only to figure out how to carry out a hit, but to enjoy the beauty 
 of your surroundings.
  
  The game also gives players the freedom to decide how to carry out the hits. Whether you prefer 
 to start a bloodbath or to creep up on your victims, there are often a number of (creative and 
 sly) ways to complete each mission. At the end of each mission, you will be paid for your services. 
 The amount you receive depends on your level of success, including whether you left behind evidence 
 of your presence (such as customized weapons) and whether you had your covers blown. The noisier 
 you were in your hits, the greater your notoriety would be, making subsequent missions more challenging 
 as a result. Luckily, you can use your earnings to bribe witnesses to lower your notoriety and 
 to upgrade weapons to even out the odds somewhat.
  
  Despite the presence of this in-game economy, I found it to be more of a gimmicky game feature 
 than a well-implemented component. Perhaps it is because I preferred to be a silent assassin, for 
 I mainly used my money to upgrade my custom Silverballer pistols and my sniper rifle. Even after 
 bribing a witness or two, I still have plenty of currency remaining for me to retire from professional 
 cleaning for good. However, I gather that this financial freedom is limited for players who decide 
 to play the game as though they are playing Max Payne. This will likely present them with the greater 
 challenge of deciding how to spend their money.
  
  The artificial intelligence in Hitman: Blood Money is adequate. Sometimes the NPCs idiocy can 
 work to your advantage. However, sometimes they can be overly sensitive to their surroundings, 
 forcing you to find alternate ways to get to your target. It can get frustrating when you think 
 youre well-hidden only to be soon detected by an NPC. In these instances, a visibility meter that 
 tells you how detectable you are (like in Splinter Cell) would have been beneficial. Despite that, 
 Hitman: Blood Money is an addictive game that will appeal to both Hitman veterans and initiates. 
 The beautiful settings, gaming freedom, and replayability make this game worth playing and would 
 make an Hitman fan out of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Hitman blood money was the best in all of the series of Hitman so far.. I have to say that i've 
 enjoyed playing this game compared to the last one..
  
  I'm happy that the PC and Xbox 360 version is next gen.. But though it's considered as next gen.. i 
 have to say.. it's not that really good looking compared to other next gen tittles that's on PC 
 and 360.. but visually, it's not that bad.. still considered as next gen with some bloom on it.. hehe..
 
  
  This game has a very good gameplay style.. you really need to have some patience with this game.. take 
 your time.. but try not to take your own sweet time...!! just try to take some of your time and 
 plan your attacks... the best part is.. there are several ways to kill your enemies on every mission.. so 
 that means it has a good replay value... so after you've completed the game.. you can replay the 
 game and kill your enemies in different ways..
  
  The number of missions arent that much though.. about 12.. if i'm not mistaken.. just somewhere between 
 10-13 missions overall.. but if you really plan your attacks and dont watch any walkthrough videos 
 or read em.. you will enjoy playing hitman blood money..
  
  For those who have a high end pc.. i recommend you guys to get it on PC as it's more cheaper, and 
 easy to use using mouse and keyboard..
  
  But Humans arent perfect.. so wont be their games too... The bad thing about this game is.. Agent 
 47 (the user controlled character) dont have many different moves to outake his enemy.. so you'll 
 find that a bit repetitive on the moves he did to kill the enemies.
  
  Another bad thing is also, the hand to hand combat.. it's not that impressive and realistic.. and 
 the ragdoll A. I body phics in this game aren't that nice to watch.. the AI body feels like it is 
 made of rubberband.. but that don't bother much.. it's just funny to look at it..
  
  And last but not least.. the final mission.. i think the last mission defeats the good gameplay that 
 hitman blood money has to offer,,, it defeats the purpose of stealth in the last mission.. and i 
 have to say.. it's nonsense and totally not good.. i hate the last mission.. too much action that 
 it makes this game look stupid...!!
  
  So for those whose willing to play this game and forget about the last mission.. go ahead and buy 
 it..!! it's a very good game with elements of stealths and some action in it,,,
  
  But for those who thinks that Splinter cells, metal gear solid, thief are better.. than you should 
 also try this no matter what.. just ignore the fina mission.. but remember.. try to get it on pC 
 as it delivers the most nicest graphics and smoothest framerates among other platforms..
  
  ENjoy.. this game is good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olgert56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Hitman : Blood Money is the third of the hitman series, I honestly think this is the best of them. 
 Like the other hitman, blood money takes you to all these awsome places around the world (Chile, 
 Paris....) . Here you have to assasinate a person or persons. You don't have to play the other hitman 
 games to play this one. One thing I like about this game is the story witch has improved 100% since 
 the last hitmans. In Blood Money you get paid a sum of money for completing the job you were given. 
 With this money you can upgrade your weapons and buy new ones. After each mission you read a newspaper 
 article featuring the details of your trail that you left behind. If you just go and kill everyone 
 in the next mission it will be easier to detect you. But you can pay a sum of money and the police 
 will forget everything. Let's start talking about the audio. I think it's a 9 out of 10. It changes 
 constantly and you don't get tired of it. Jesper Kyd did a really good job with it. Graphics? Awsome. 
 You can see everything clearly and with great detail. You can sea the snow or rain and the sunshine 
 of the sun. Not much to tell you about it. For this it deserves a 9 out of 10. The gamplay is fantastic. 
 There are so many ways to do the mission you have to replay it to try them out. There are many 
 ways to kill a person for example, you can use a sniper or a bomb or go up behind them a stick 
 a knife in their throat. You can go up the elevator shaft and use a fiber wire to sophicate them. 
 I think gameplay deseves a 10 out of 10. If you have $40 i suggest you run to the store and buy 
 it.
  
  P. S please recommend my review. Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Woow, this game is great, the best in the series. This game looks great, and plays great too. Its 
 just fun, you feel like Agent 47, you got the target, and its all about you, what way will you 
 choose to kill your target. Its a great game. You must the target, find a way, how to eliminate 
 your target, and when you kill your target, you must get out there fast. The soundtrack and the 
 sounds are great, you really feel like a cold blooded assasin. Great game, what else can I say. 
 And a good thing for me: this game is quite hard, and I like hard games. GREAT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Overall its a great game which you should not miss. For this game you need patience and intilligence 
 to complete. Graphics, AI, voice acting, action are extremely well done. It has overall good soundquality 
 also. In this Game you have to make self choices about how to eliminate a villain in style or progress 
 in the game. This game has that perfect thrills, stealth factors, elimination styles which a gamer 
 wants from a hitman game. Your disguises as a hitman looks simply amazing. The different locations 
 where the game is set looks simply awesome. This game is certainly larger than life. This game offers 
 you more fun &amp; enjoyment of game play. There is never a single moment of boredom rather it glues 
 you to your seat. No one will ever regret playing this game. In this game you get to upgrade your 
 weapons, pay cash to be less in the limelight. Its All about your Blood Money. It is the best game 
 from the entire Hitman series. But the game ends quickly also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Omfg, Blood money is now one of my favorite games! It's is an Instant classic from my point of 
 view. I didn't like contracts alot, but blood money has got to be one of the best games of 2006! 
 The gameplay is ******* awesome! For any of you that haven't played blood money yet, I won't ruin 
 it for y'all. But for those who have played it, WAS THAT ONE OF THE BEST GAMES YOU'VE EVER PLAYED?!?!? 
 , it was for me. From my view, Blood money has everything. For those idiots that think hitman sucks, 
 I have to say, WTF?!? Beleive me, worth the wait. This is going up with my fav games of all time 
 (San Andreas, Max Payne 1, Splinter cell, Devil may cry 3, ETC..) ! It's simple, if you haven't 
 played it, THEN PLAY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacquesjoubert
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  With the third game in the series, Hitman: Contracts, IO hit a lull, as the team was simultaneously 
 working on Blood Money and creating the newly fangled engine on which this new game was built. 
 Contracts looked good enough and explored a dark, devious theme that hadn't been done before, but 
 it played like all the others. This fourth game does several things to improve the series, both 
 from a presentation and a playability perspective.
  
  The screen splits to show off important actions.
  The results are solid -- the new notoriety 
 system functions smartly, the upgraded currency system encourages players to be pennywise, and 
 the text-sensitive controls and up-close fighting systems make this often very un-accessible stealth 
 game more forgiving. The newly added features don't, however, alter the fundamental experience 
 much beyond Contracts. So while fans of the series will notice all the new features in subtle ways, 
 the gameplay is essentially like playing any of the previous games in the series. In other words, 
 IO built a lot of good features around the core play, which was tinkered with and enhanced a little, 
 but it basically left the 47's fundamental game alone. What we're left with is a good, familiar 
 game of Hitman. It's more accessible, looks better -- significantly so on Xbox 360 and PC, anyway 
 -- and is worth your hard earned money if you're a patient and obsessive stealth gamer.
  
  IO's new game is an endeavor based on many little things that work comprehensively. The story is 
 more intriguing, because it finds Agent 47, the ultimate assassin clone, being hunted down by a 
 rival organization and hitman, while following a narrative that traces Agent 47's work via a reporter 
 and an inside man bent on tracking him down. You'll want to see all the cutscenes since they reveal 
 crucial information on yours truly, and they exhaustively -- and in a real-world manner -- explore 
 the political and global issues around cloning. The CG dialog is refreshing and intelligent and 
 doesn't just paint a nice pastiche. Similarly, the series has always relied on CG cutscenes, which 
 have looked drastically different than the actual gameplay up until now. IO's rebuilt game engine 
 features better lighting techniques and character models and the work shows up well on all systems, 
 especially the PC and Xbox 360 versions, which appear unhindered by technical limitations.
  
  The most dramatic changes in Blood Money, however, don't revolve around the story, but Hitman's 
 actions and the systems around those actions. First, the training level is up-to-date. The first 
 level is essentially a training level, which narrates your actions through a real-world level. 
 Many other games have done this before, and now Hitman does it and does it well. The next things 
 you'll notice are contact-sensitive controls, more kinds of control, and added Agent 47 nimbleness. 
 Using a three-button system appearing on-screen, you'll find that doorknobs, items, secret stashes 
 in drawers, and guns all are contact-sensitive. Run by an object that's useable and the right button 
 is lit in the corner of your screen. This technique is done well and thankfully it makes controlling 
 Hitman a little more natural without being too obvious. The only area that's a little wonky is 
 climbing out windows (it's a little sticky and can be confusing in a quick situation) .
  
  The additional accessibility from better controls works on different levels. There are always situations 
 in which Agent 47 must do things in a hurry. The more accessible control system makes performing 
 simple acts -- like opening a door or picking up a briefcase -- less painful. The game still fundamentally 
 functions like it did before, but the smarter interface works more intuitively most of the time. 
 Opening a garbage can or a garbage truck, for instance, to dispose of an unclothed dead man, is 
 not only new to Blood Money, but it's an action that can be handled relatively quickly and efficiently. 
 Believe it or not, throwing a coin was one of the harder things we had to figure out, as was handling 
 multiple items simultaneously. It's all do-able, of course, and this Hitman makes these simple 
 things easier to do. But IO hasn't abandoned its former self, so if you've played Hitman before, 
 you'll instantly feel comfortable with this. If you have never handled Hitman before, you might 
 take a chance with this one.
  
  IO worked on a lot of systems that revolve around your actions to tie the game into a more cohesive 
 whole. Weapons carry over from one level to the next now, but they have a series of upgrades, some 
 with as many as 11-12 different kinds. They range from bigger, more powerful bullets that can blast 
 through doors (which is new) , to silenced modifications to bridges and expanded clips. You'll handle 
 rifles, sniper rifles (the Dragunov) , handguns (SilverBallers) , automatic rifles, shotguns, and 
 more. The weapons function exactly like they did in the past, by pressing and holding a button 
 to check inventory and by pressing the same button to unholster or holster a weapon.
  from : http://ps2. ign. com/articles/710/710660p1. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desperados11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Hitman : Blood Money is the 4th installment in the Hitman Series. Agent 47 is back and this time 
 around he gets to customise the gear he will be using in his very high risk and high paid contracts. 
 This time around the story is a little bit different and it actually starts with the ending. This 
 adds a bit to the sense that u are no longer in control of ur destiny. The ending is a masterpiece 
 since it pretty much wraps up all of the prerendered scenes u will be seeing inbetween missions 
 that explain the story. The graphics engine for this year's Hitman is not revolutionary but it 
 doesn't look bad either. One thing remains in the series and that is the feeling of power u get 
 when u are playing agent 47. The AI is pretty intelligent and the new notoriety and rating system 
 is really nice altough they don't have a huge impact on ur playing style if u play on the lower 
 difficulty settings. Also the maps are bigger than ever and the ways of killing ur target have 
 never been so numerous. All in all Hitman : Blood Money is the best game in the Hitman series since 
 it captures all the good stuff from the last games and adds even more realism and plain fun to 
 the already working formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarvinMacOrmick
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Hitman: Contracts I was amazed by the exciting gameplay and numerous possible 
 ways to go about mssions. But, after playing Blood Money I was thrilled to see an ever wider range 
 of options, with new elements of gameplay including weapon upgrades and a new notoriety system. 
 On the downside, the difficulty of the levels didn't really seem to go in ascending order as I 
 found some of the later levels to be easier than the others. None the less, when played on the 
 hardest difficulty achieving Silent Assassin rank was no walk in the park. This made Blood Money 
 a thrilling ride to the end, for any fan of stealth type games to fulling enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money
  
  
  :  
 (  -  
 
   : IO Interactive
  : Eidos Interactive
   : 
 May 30, 2006    
 :
  Game Spot: 8.2
  IGN: 8
  Game Rankings: 83.5
   : 
 8.2
  
    :  
     
    
     
 .     
      
    
     
     .
 
      
     
   Hitman: Code Name 47   
  Eidos   2000  
      
     
      
     
      
    
  .   
     
     
  GamePlay     
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     2000  
    
  .  
     
      
  .  
    
   
   .  
     
     
      
     
       
    
      
  .   
      
      
  47   (  
      
   47   ) . 
      
     
      
      
     
      
  .
      
      
 Eidos     
      
  .    
      
 Hitman: Silent Assassin    2002  
      
     
     
   .  
     
     
     
    . 
    
      
     
 .   
     
  .    
    . 
     
     
  .   
     
    . 
      
     
     
     
      
   . 
     
     
      
   .  
     
      
      
     
      
   . 
      
     
     
     
     
  GTA  .
     
      
   Eidos    
      
    Hitman: Contracts . 
      
    
     
     
 .   
     
      
       
      
  .   
     
      
      
      
    .  
      
    ( 
     
      
 )    
     
     ! 
     
     
     
    ) 
     
  .   
     
    . 
     
     
      
     
     
     
     .
 
  
    2    
 Eidos     
     
   Hitman Blood Money .  
 Eidos      
      
      
      
      
       
   . (  
      
    
 )      
     
     
      
  .
  
  GamePlay:    
     
     
      
  .    
   Hitman Blood Money   
    . 
      
      
     
      
     
    . 
     
      
      
     
 .   
      
  .  
    
      
      
     
      
     
       
    .... 
     
    
   .
      
      
     
     
  .    
     
     
     
      
      
      
       
     
     
     
  .   
     
      
      
     
      
      
      
   (  
    
 ) ....   
    
     
 .
      
     
 .    
      
   . 
     
      
       
     
 .   
     
     
    
     
     
   . 
     
      
      
       
       
    
       
 ....  .   
      
     
     
    
 .   
      
      
     
       
      
      
   .
  
  :   
 BM      
     
   .  
     
 (   
   ...)    
      
     
 .    
     
      
     . 
     
     
     
    . 
     
     
      
   .  
    
      
      
     
   ) . 
    ( 
     
  )   
      
  .
      
    ( 
    
   ) 
      
     
     
  256    
     
      
      
      
  Frim Rate (  
   )  
  .
  
   :  
      
   .  
    
     
      
      
     
    ....   
     
     . 
     
     
      
   .
  
    : 
    
    . 
   ( 
     
     
      
      
 ...)    
      
   .  
     
       
     
 .    
      
      
    
  .
      
     
 .   
     
      
    . 
     
      
      
     
     
      
     
 .
  
   :   
     
     
  .   
     
     
     
   .  
      
     
     
      
  .    
      
     
     
      
     
 .   
      
      
    
     
     
       
  .   
      
    FEAR   
    
    .
 
  
   :  
     
    . 
     
     . 
     
     
      
     
  .   
     
     
     
     
 .    
      
    
       
      . 
   ....   
     
     
     
     
      
      
      
 .    
     
 .    
     
     
  !
  
      
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
  Hitman Blood Money   
     
  (   
    ) . 
     
     
       
   
    
    . 
     
    
 E3      
     
     
     
     .
 
  
  : www. darinoos. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palex14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  WOW that's the perfect word to say how this game is cool and awesome. That's definitely the best 
 Third-Person shooter after Splinter Cell, but definitely the best in the serie too. Awesome graphics, 
 gameplay is cool, very different than the other Hitman games, much more realistic, everything is 
 perfect. It's evident that you need a good system to run this game, like good graphic card, good 
 motherboard and at least 1GB of memory (2GB it's not a bad idea...) This game is kicking a**, I 
 can't stop playing it ! I was addicted to Himan 2 when it cames out, so you can't imagine how I'm 
 addicted to Hitman: BLood Money... lol Anyway, This game is kind of violent and hard if you'r not 
 playing it like RUN AND GUNS, killing everyone in the place with your SP-12 Shotgun. I hope there's 
 gonna be another Hitman game (a fifth one) even if 47 dies at the end (that's what I've heard...) . 
 They can make another Hitman with a new Hitman. lol Anyway, THANKS TO EIDOS FOR THIS AWESOME GAME!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saba47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  From Releasing Of Hitman Codename 47 Until Now Hitman Series Is One Of The Most Popular Action-Stealth 
 Games. In Each Hitman Gameplay And Also Graphics Greatly Improved Than Before. And Hitman Blood Money 
 Is Like The Other Hitmans Too.
  
  Gameplay: You can choose witch way you want to play in Blood Money. You Can Choose Between Third-Person 
 View And First-Person View Anytime You Want. You Can Complete Levels With Stealth Or With Killing 
 Anybody In The Level, Or You Can Use Both Of These methodsTo Complete The missions.
  The Main Character Is Mr.47, The Best Assassin The World Has Ever Seen. He Was Created By Doctor 
 Ort Meier By Using The DNA Of Five Of The Best Assassins In The World. He Is A Master In Everything 
 An Assassin Must Know .He Is a Master In Using Weapons, Or In Disguises And Other Things. He Works 
 For The ICA (International Contract Agency) He Only Accepts Hard And Impossible Missions. He Never 
 Fails. The Story Of Hitman Blood Money Is The Best Story In Hitman Series You Will Become So Eager 
 To Know What Will Happen At End Of It.47 Has Improved His Abilities In Blood Money Specialy In 
 Using His Body, Now He Can Climb Fences And Pipes. He Can Use His Head To Attack His Enemies Or 
 He Can Use His Deadly Punch To Knock Out Others. In This Game You Can Use Many Ways To Completing 
 Missions. This Is One Of The Most Interesting Things In Hitman Series. Graphics: The Garphic Are 
 Great .This Game Needs a Graphic Card With Pixel Shader 2.0 For Making An Amazing Use Of Shaders. The 
 Shaders Of The Game Are Great .You Can See Shadows On Clothes, Wall, Ground, Doors And Other Things. 
 IO Interactive Uses Fully Detailed Textures For The Game You Cannot Find a Bad Texture Among Them.
 
  The Objects In The Game Are fairly detailed. You Can See Best Of It In The Face Of Mr.47 With Using 
 Of different types of mapping on the textures. for example you can't find a game that has better 
 height maps for the parallax mapping ,clothes has amazing depth and with other graphical effects 
 like post filtering they become so realistic. In Fact Garaphics In Blood Money Are Great But This 
 Can Be a Problem With Low Garphic Cards Or Old Computers And The Players Cannot Have A Good Frame 
 Rate And They Must Turn The Graphics To Low. I Used a GeForce 7300 GS To Play Blood Money And I 
 Had a Good Frame Rate With High Graphics But If You Have An Old Graphic Card You Can Download Patch 
 v1.2 To have A Better Experience.
  
  Sound: Sound effects are acceptable. You Can Find Out What Is Your Enemy's Weapon By Hearing His 
 Weapon Sound. The Dialogs People Say When You Kill Them Are Good, But The Best Is In Voice Acting, With 
 David Bateson As Mr.47 You Will Spend Many Hours Watching Cutscens.
  The Music Is Great Too, In Fact One Of The Best Things In The Game Are Amzing Musics Composed By 
 Jesper Kyd. Surely Blood Money Has Some Of The Best Soundtracks In Video Games. the overall theme 
 of the musics is more like Hitman 2.
  
  Game Rules: In Hitman You Must Try To Use Stealth To Complete Mission. After The Mission Is Complete 
 The Game Will Give You A Rank. The Best Rank In Hitman Is Silent Assassin. When You Kill No One Except 
 Your Targets Or Kill One Person With An Accident You Will Gain a Silent Assassin Rank. In Blood 
 Money You Can Earn Money By Completing
  Missions And You Can Use That Money To Buy Upgrades For Your Weapons Or Bribing People. There Is 
 a Notoriety System In Hitman Blood Money That Will Let The People Know Who You Are If You Have 
 Some Witnesses Or You Were Caught On A Camera. You Can Lose Your Notoriety By Bribing Civilians 
 Or Police Chiefs Or If Necessary You can Purchase A New Identity. I Think This Game Is Better For 
 Those Who have No Problem With Violence Because Of That Mr.47 Is a Killer And Killing Is Worse 
 Than Everything.
  47 Only Kills Gangsters And Bad Guys But He Use Violence To Do That .And Violence Can Be a Problem 
 In All Of Hitman Series.
  
  Hitman Blood Money Is One Of The Best Games Ever Made. I have Completed It For Over 50 Times And 
 I'm Not Tired Of It Yet. So If You Are A Fan Of Stealth Games Or Hitman Series This Can Be Best 
 Choice For You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usy911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  im a die hard fan of hitman games. i have played all hitman franchise thrice. hitman 1 was ok, hitman2 
 was good, hitman contracts was excellent & now bllod money is mind blowing. not only it is more stylish 
 & daedly. but it looks even more good with good graphics. i love this game bcoz ,this game allows 
 me to kill people ,brutally, yeah. i love those games in which u sneak into enemy area & come out 
 killing your target, and nobody get to know and you are away. hitman games has new revolutionary 
 concept. its fun playing this game. u can use various disguises to enter in to enemy area. gameplay 
 is awesome. killing style is even more good. go behind your enemy silently & with your wire choke 
 his throat or kill him with silenced pistol & their are many diffrent ways to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonVitoCarleon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Eidos have went to the top with this series in its forth game ,the mood of this game has changed 
 in many ways become easy and more understandable with more choises as to how u kill your target 
 with as simply just shooting him or choking poisoning ,stabing .The choises are end less and geting 
 to ur target there are very little Glitches ,and no more geting shot for going some where u didnt 
 now was of limits nd if u do your told to get out as simple as it seems no other game has gone 
 to such extents with a completely new limits to your gaming experience in many ways and seting 
 a new limits to how many people are on screen with one mission with over three thousand people 
 , (and not enof bullets lol)
  A great choise of weapons and things to do in what why you acomplish your mission .You can play 
 this game with stealth and skill or simply kill everyone .With a great noteriety system for no 
 witteness and not been seen who wil now who u are .THe weapons Consist of and thing really Pistols 
 Shotguns Auto-matics Sub-machine guns tools and Sniper Riffles with the greatest costume built 
 weapons ever seen . Consisting silencers extra ammo ,bigger barrels ,scopes and pretty much anything 
 you can get for a gun .
  
  AFTER PLAYING
  From the start with a clip of what happened to what made this assination happen ,with a toturail 
 mission (Lasting about 10 minutes at average) . Easy to learn controls and comfortable fingure placing 
 .You find yourself on a peir of dock, then climbimg up a few things to get to ground level to the 
 entrance ,having been told how by as simply running towards what your clibing and he climbs by 
 himself couldnt be easier he .Running threw the mission been told what to do and how to do it ,Its 
 a very good tutorial telling u everything you can use to complete missions .While playing u will 
 notice the great graphics and smooth realist gameplay and you will find no glitches here its only 
 what u cant do that will enoy you .With no accesability to the outside world .This is great so 
 you dont get lost or distracted from your mission .On to the second mission with another clip of 
 whats going on and geting you that bit closer to finding the end result so to speak .A Vintage 
 year starting at the gate this is where u do things by yourself or you can buy information and 
 tips on how to get and to kill your target .
  
  After Finishing and Analissing this game you might find your self going beck doing it again and 
 messing around .I found that the hardest thing about completing a mission is finding out how to 
 get to them and finding out where and when to do it .But at the end you will find things and fing 
 out how to do it better ontil ur at the piont of just watchind some terible accident happen .This 
 will entertain anyone .
  
  At the end of this game what you might think is the end isnt the only thing i can tell you is keep 
 hiting R3 and L3 ontil you now its during the credits wink wink ! But overal this is definatly 
 one of the best this year well deseving of awards as i said and im sure many others this is a MASTERPIECE 
 This is David walsh and i hope you enjoyed this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspking111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  This tps is a very stealth action game you need alot of thinkin skill to be good at this game. the 
 graphics are BEAUTIFUL and gamplay is smooth. I like playing the game on a controller for the pc 
 but a key board will do it has alot of buttons u gota memerise but other than that you should be 
 fine. THE performance settings are a little to bit. for the average user to have but you get what 
 you pay for. For $50 bucks i say wth go for it its a good game and youll have hours of fun trying 
 to get the game beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  First off, I really enjoyed this game. I cant add a lot to what has already been said, like there 
 are multiple ways to accomplish each mission, and sometimes I would find out how to do things accidentally, 
 by stumbling on . them. For example, coming up behind someone while they are bent over, allowing 
 you to push them against the wall, knocking them out. I thought this was very innovative.
  
  I played the game through using the, normal setting the first time. When I had trouble; there 
 are/were plenty of online guides etc. that can help you out. But I suggest you try to do the levels 
 on your own first. The rating system is pretty cool in Hitman: Blood money. It is no coincidence 
 that the highest rating is of course, Silent Assassin or SA. At the end of each mission, there 
 will be a newspaper writ up of your rating, even down to how many shots you fired. The more innocents 
 you kill, the more witnesses to your hits, the lower your rating. But I must admit, Im finding 
 myself do each mission differently (purposely racking up witnesses etc.) just to see what the newspaper 
 will say at the end of the level.
  
  The biggest gripe I had with Hitman was the sound. It seems like there have been sound issues with 
 every Hitman game I have played; even using different computers. There are voice directional problems, 
 and sometimes you just cant plain here what people are saying, or it will have an underwater type 
 sound to it. It is only a minor annoyance though.
  
  I for one hope there is another game in the series. The graphics improve with each installment, 
 and the game is just plain fun, enjoy the game, two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  A perfect production of a game. Other developers could really take some lessons from these guys 
 at IO-Interactive. The game has gotten back to its roots, taking a lot of aspects of Hitman: Codename 
 47 and using them in this version. I felt that in Silent Assassin and Contracts the developers 
 had really been getting away from the contract killer ideals, although they were great games in 
 their own respect. This version brings back the monetary aspect of the profession, allowing the 
 user to modify weapons, improve equipment, and buy off witnesses to reduce notoriety. Also, the 
 blood spatter and body disposal has been both greatly improved when compared to past titles. As 
 well, as expected, the graphics are out of this world, and with such large levels the seamlessness 
 of the frame rate is unmatched. Anyone playing this game has to be in awe of the New Orleans Parade 
 level and the sheer number of AI that blots the screen at every turn. OK OK... i'll stop... it's 
 obvious i love the game, but so will you! I would recommend this game to my 84 year old Grandmother. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crack11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money
  
  I really enjoy (ed) this game. The graphics is great and the gameplay is really great, i really 
 like that you are able to upgrade your weapons. The only minus i think theres abit annoying about 
 the game is that you can upgrade your sniper a lot, but there is not really any mission where you 
 need it maybe a singel one or something like that. But who wants to spend all the money they make 
 on the missions on upgrading it when you can use them to upgrade your unstopable Silver ballers. 
 But overall i really like this game and I can only recommend it and tell people to get that game. 
 The history in the game is also good and really gets you in the mood for a game like Hitman. So 
 as all the other hitman games Ive also enjoyed this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darin847
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Hitman is a masterpiece of finding ways to kill your target in the most quiet suficticated way, 
 or like me.. barge in with an m4 equipped with a drum magazine and a handgrip and take no mercy 
 with you. this game defiently won me over with the perfect sound of Erie opera music, the great 
 ability to completely customize your weapons to the fullest extent, and to act as a "chameleon" 
 the graphics are perfect, and I am also happy the creators made ALOT more ways to dispose of enemies. 
 So please Make sure to rent this game first, see if it's for you... now if you will excuse me, I'm 
 going to go and purchase Hitman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Or-G
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  n the game Hitman: Blood Money, the latest sequel from the Hitman series, you continue your assassinating 
 streak as Agent 47, cloned to be the "perfect" assasin. The game starts off as a half tutorial 
 half mission level where you must infiltrate and abandoned carnival and assassinate a drug dealer, 
 all the while taking down black guys one by one, or avoiding them, because in this game, you can 
 go through the mission however you want. If its picking up an M4 and blasting your way through 
 countless civilians at Mardi Gras or creeping around the mansion of a Columbian drug lord, with 
 your fiber wire in hand.
  
  In the beginning of the carnival mission you start off in a busty little dock, staring off at the 
 horizon. The water in this game is beautifully textured and animated and looks especially amazing 
 when the sun glares off of it. You make your way up to a parking lot and head towards a gate, passing 
 by a busted down green car with an open door and a trail of blood leading towards and past the 
 gate. As you get to the gate an angry black guy stops you and begins to yell at you, but have no 
 fear! With the press of a button (E) , you grab his neck and smack it into the gate and proceed 
 calmly through it, entering a set of shabby doors to your right. Through the door you walk and 
 you come upon a set of doors and two windows to the right, where two more black guys are standing 
 chatting away behind the window. You whip out a coin and throw it through a window. The two black 
 guys become suspicious, but only one of them goes to check it out.
  
  This is where you whip out your fiber wire and sneak up on the black guy and strangle him, picking 
 up his gun and shooting his friend when he comes back. Or, you couldve ran up to the black guy 
 and either grabbing the gun from his hand while elbowing him in the face (left click) or sneaking 
 up on him and using him as a human shield (E) to protect you from the hail of gunfire from his 
 trigger happy friend.
  
  There are countless such instances throughout the game where you can perform such tasks. To add 
 to all of those options you can also, after killing someone, you can whip their costume on, while 
 leaving your own suit in a neat pile next to the dead guy. Not only does that seem weird but the 
 fact that this costume change takes less than a millisecond makes it all the more strange, although 
 its still much better than watching him undress, taking the dead guys clothes off and so on and 
 so forth. It also seems that all clothes are one size fits all, although, once again, cant complain 
 there. Unfortunately you cant take any costume you may find; I was quite disappointed at the fact 
 that I couldnt dress him in one of the black guys gangster costumes; at least you can dress him 
 up in a chicken costume.
  
  With the dead body you may drag it around (E picks up the body) painstakingly slow by the arm; 
 you can either drop the body into a container lying around, or in one of the missions, a manhole. 
 Or you can just leave it in an inconspicuous corner and hope no one finds it, if someone finds 
 it, they become suspicious of you.
  
  Thankfully you know just how suspicious people are around you by the awareness meter at the bottom 
 right corner of the screen, where your health is also located. As the meter goes up, the more suspicious 
 you are to others. When the bar gets full they will randomly open fire at you, which sometimes 
 doesnt quite fit in with the whole sequence of events.
  
  On the top right corner of the screen are your command options, which will change every time you 
 have a new option, such as picking something up by pressing space or to grab someone from behind. 
 If there is more than one option for that particular option (E is for action commands, i. e. grabbing 
 someone, picking up a dead body, opening/closing lids. Space is for picking objects up such as 
 key cards and weapons and G is to throw whatever you are holding.) a small dropdown menu opens 
 up underneath it where you can choose the action.
  
  Before each mission you may choose and upgrade the weapons you plan to use for the mission. Although 
 you have to think the weapons you choose out thoroughly before starting. Although you will receive 
 intel about the mission during this time and will get information and pictures about your targets. 
 Your weapon selection consists of a pistol, a SMG, a M4, a shotgun and a sniper rifle. Although 
 if you completed the previous mission with a weapon not in your original weapon list you may choose 
 it for the next mission. Fortunately you can use virtually anything you find to your advantage, 
 ranging from nail guns to fire extinguishers. Its always fun pumping a poor spectator with nail 
 after nail while listening to the wails of pain, unfortunately this method isnt very tactical, 
 or effective.
  
  The shotgun and other large weapons are placed for you in closed off areas in the map where no 
 one will supposedly find it. If you choose the sniper rifle you will start off the mission with 
 it, although it will be in a black suitcase and you have to construct it elsewhere. The SMG and 
 the pistol magically fit in your suit, along with any other small object you may find along the 
 way and choose to pick up. There are also miscellaneous weapons such as poison and sedative syringes 
 and ether.
  
  That reminds me, in the sixth mission; I snuck into a mansion by climbing up a water pipe in the 
 backyard after shooting the dog with a tranquilizer dart found in a tree house. When you sneak 
 up there you find yourself in a girls room, so I snuck around and found an option to pour ether 
 on to the girls panties. I then hid in the closet and a security guard came in, picked up the 
 girls panties and sniffed it away, ultimately leading to his unconsciousness. After a good laugh 
 I jumped out of the closet, stole his uniform and shoved him in to the closet.
  
  In the same mission I stole some donuts from a clown, poisoned them with my syringe, walked over 
 to an FBI van and opened the door, where a secret agent pulled out his gun and commanded me to 
 drop the donuts. Damn cops and their donuts Luckily, short after I heard two thumps, jumped into 
 the van and stole the security tape.
  
  As you can see, there are countless options you may use in every mission, and any small action 
 has some sort of reaction, sometimes things you wont even expect would happen from such a simple 
 action.
  
  The thing I despise most in this game are the doors! When you press E the door magically opens 
 and closes without you even touching the doorknob, all the while making an annoying creaking sound. 
 I also find it strange that everyone finds you suspicious, as you walk through a hall more than 
 half the people will turn towards you and stare at you. Although a bald man with a barcode on the 
 back of his head may look suspicious, he shouldnt really be suspicious enough for people to just 
 stare at you.
  
  On a more positive note, the graphics in this game are quite amazing, the textures are nice, everything 
 is believable, the water shines beautifully, hell, you can even see the sun glaring off the back 
 of your bald head. The rag doll physics are also quite nice, especially when you pump a few shot 
 gun shells into an unsuspecting foe and watching him go flying in the air, landing on some other 
 guy behind him. You may also switch from 1st person to 3rd person by pressing F1, the game is 
 native in 3rd person though. The decals are also quite nice, if you get shot somewhere you see 
 the bullet hole on your body, or on the dude you just pelted with a BB gun.
  
  I dont have any quarrels with the sound, everything sounds as it should. The music in this game 
 is quite unique and sometimes even disturbing. The music will liven up as you begin to fight or 
 will go into a more mysterious tone as you creep around. Although the music can get quite tiresome 
 at some points.
  
  So, in conclusion, Hitman: Blood Money is a great game which I highly recommend to anyone. It is 
 highly immersive and each mission will take you anywhere from fifteen minutes to two hours depending 
 on how you like to play. Be it whatever your style, slow and steady or fast and restless you will 
 enjoy at least some sort of aspect of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morlune
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is an amazing game. Easy as that! Even though the storyline is a littlebit short, 
 all the missions has an unbelievable replay value. In the earlier games in the series, there wasn't 
 really that many missions that was worth playing more than once.. This is not the matter in Blood 
 Money. In fact, not since "Traditions of the Trade" from the first Hitman game, has this series 
 seen greater missions. They take palce all over the world, from a casino and rave party in Las 
 Vegas, to a luxurious palace in the Rocky Mountains, to a boat in Mississippi. Unlike the earlier 
 games, you really have to get to know the different missions before you will be able to perform 
 a perfect hit, which makes the game a lot more interesting.
  
  This game should be owned by everyone who rather would like sneak around your targets as a shadow 
 instead of blasting everyone and everything. But also as a pure action/shooter is Hitman Blood 
 Money loads of fun!
  
  Prepare!
  The bold headed assassin is back!
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattnrob
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Hitman since part two on the PS2. It was the first stealth action game I really 
 got into. The depth was amazing. You could beat each mission at least 5 different ways, the game 
 kept you coming back for more.... then there was Contracts. Contracts had a mish mash of flash back 
 levels from the first Hitman and new ones as well. It was a good game but the levels just were'nt 
 as fun as part 2. Then a year and change later out comes Blood Money. Blood Money outdoes the first 
 3 games in many respects. First of all graphics. Top notch. While not stellar they are very crisp 
 and the lighting effects are really well done. Textures and mapping are done pretty good as well. 
 Gameplay is very much the same as the old hitman games so veterans will feel right at home. 47 
 has an arsenal of new moves to show off in this incarnation. He can now disarm his foes and steal 
 the weapon, very cool. Does a lot of climbing and jumping across balconies as well. What makes 
 this game really fun is the variety of things you can do to the NPC's. You can poison their drinks, 
 drop chandelier on their heads, blow them up, push off balconies, catch them on fire, in one level 
 even have crocodiles eat them! If you like stealth action even a little bit pick this game up at 
 your local INDEPENDENT game store! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game makes all other Hitman games look like crap. There is just so much depth in this game, 
 so many ways to kill and many different styles to do it. And the enviroments are outstanding, very 
 detailed and intricate. And Agent 47 can interact with the enviroment very well.
  
  The best point about this game is the coolness factor. I just love walking in my black suit, carrying 
 my laptop case which is secretly carrying my sniper rifle. And then to just walk right by a shotgun 
 weilding guard at a cocaine factory, while he doesn't know who you are or what you are about to 
 do. The stealth in this game is awesome and very fun to be dodging and sneaking up behind guards. 
 It's a great feeling to sneak your way through the mission and only kill your targets, cover your 
 tracks, and then to just walk out and no one knows what happened.
  
  But if you blow your cover by accident you can always resolve to opening fire and killing everyone 
 in your path and see how far that takes you. You get to decide how you play the game.
  
  The graphics and sound are top notch, as well as the replay value, you can keep trying to get a 
 better score or play it a different way, and there are many different ways to kill your targets.
 
  
  Gameplay: 100% perfect, no other game has come close to what Hitman Blood money has achieved. Great 
 coolness factor that really brings you into the game.
  
  Graphics: Awesome, with full settings on this game looks almost lifelike, but even with settings 
 turned down like I had to, it still looks amazing.
  
  Sound: The music during missions and menu is very subtle vocals that are great and really set the 
 mood. And when the action is heating up or you are in a tense situation, the music accomodates 
 and really sets the mood.
  
  Value: Great value. Replay value is great, you can approach missions so many different ways and 
 complete then many different ways. And lots of upgrades and you can get a better score ect. You 
 will find yourself playing the missions over and over again.
  
  One of the best games I've seen in a long time. The gameplay just takes the cake, and all other 
 elements of the game are very well done. Go out and buy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbishash
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  about the title..............
  
  IT should be titled Bloody money................
  
  Here is the small discription about the whole game.
  
  The worlds deadliest assassin returns 
 and takes killing for money to a whole new level.
  
  When assassins from his contract agency, the ICA, are systematically eliminated in a series of 
 hits, Agent 47 suspects that a larger, more powerful agency has entered the fray. As he suddenly 
 loses contact with the ICA, Agent 47 senses that he may be the next target, so our merciless contract 
 killer travels to America to take care of business himself...
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is the fourth installment of the critically acclaimed Hitman series. Powered 
 by a new version of IO Interactives stunning Glacier engine, Hitman: Blood Money will deliver 
 the most brutal and realistic simulation of the life of a cold-blooded assassin.
  
  The enemy AI has been improved considerably, and Agent 47 must carefully use a combination of stealth, 
 tactics and survival instincts to stay alive and complete the missions.
  
  Stay hidden, make clean 'hits' and leave the scene unnoticed, and Agent 47 will be rewarded. But 
 if he is revealed during a violent act, his picture will end up in the papers and on wanted posters, 
 making the job as a contract killer more difficult.
  
  This time, Agent 47 is paid in cold, hard cash. How the money is spent will affect his passage 
 through the game and the weapons at his disposal, resulting in a unique gameplay experience for 
 each player.
  
  Features
  
  'Blood Money' system  the cleaner the 'hit' the more money you receive which can be spent on specialist 
 equipment, weapon upgrades, information and bribing witnesses to reduce your notoriety
  
  * Customisable weapons  modify Agent 47s custom weapons in a variety of ways including sound, 
 recoil, rate of fire, damage, reload speed, accuracy and zoom
  
  Improved AI  guards will follow blood trails, investigate suspicious items and behaviour. New 
 pathfinder engine provides improved tracking and movement with realistic enemy behaviour and interaction
 
  
  New game engine  the world of the assassin has never been so interactive and realistic. Agent 
 47 has a number of new moves and can now climb, hide, scale ledges and automatically pass low obstacles
 
  
  New gameplay techniques  including distracting enemies, making kills look like accidents, dispose 
 of bodies in various ways, use human shields, decoy weapons etc
  
  Prepare to become a hitman  New to the world of getting paid for killing? Dont worry, a new game 
 play mode has been introduced to make sure the Rookies amongst us can get in and play the game 
 in any desired way.
  
  very ambitious they might thought that because of the end this game will bring revolution, but 
 at the end the game made me think about its ratings.....
  
  number of guns, silencers laser zooms, laser snipers keeps u playing.
  n the most great thing 
 about Hitman is SILENT ASSASSIN. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood money is the best in the serise .
  
  GRAPHICS.
  
  Grapghics are great. All the environments and character models are 3D and are sharp and detailed. 
 Blood Money is quite impressive from a visual point of view. 
  
  GAMEPLAY.
  
  Many new additions have been added been added and everything has been tweaked. Controls are simple 
 and easy to play with. Triangle ,Circle and X are action buttons and at some situations they show 
 up on screen and tell you what to do. In this game, you can kill your victims, then take their 
 clothes and then hide their body in a dumpster. There are many places to hide dead people. You 
 can even throw enemies over railings and hold them as hostages.
  
  STELTH KILLING.
  
  Stelth killing is the best thing in this game. There are too many ways to kill your target .You 
 can place a bomb in briefcase or book or box and also in toolbox. you can injact poison in food, drinks 
 or in cake. The best rathing in this game is SILENT ASSASSIN . There is lots of ways too finished 
 level in SILENT ASSASSIN. Now i finished the all levels in SILENT ASSASSIN thats was tough.
  
  STORY: 9.9
  GRAPHICS: 9.9
  GAMEPLAY:98
  SOUND:10
  VALUE:10
  REVIEWER'S TILT:10
 
  OVERALL:9.8 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WKK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  For Hitman Blood Money, I was damn impressed with the physics and features.
  
  Gameplay: Amazing! Amazing! Kill your target anyway you want! Disguise yourself! or just come in 
 with a gun and start shooting everyone.. (doubt you'll survive) . The game is addiciting and you 
 will never get bored of this game i gurantee because there should be at least one level that is 
 your favourite and well, my favourite is the one with the Shamal Hotel. Many things have been added 
 in the gameplay such as the ballers not blasting your oppenents like in Hitman 2. Many things were 
 changed and improved. A new feature has been added where you can dump the bodies of your victims 
 and people that are killed. There are tons of features! GET THE GAME! You WON'T BE BORED! MARK 
 MY WORD.
  
  Sound: Guns sound real. They sound better than Hitman 2 and well, i love the sound! It could be 
 a bit improved but overall it rocks.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are the main point of the game. The graphics are amazing and so are the 
 physics. You can see almost every detail in the graphics and the physicals are amazing! When you 
 shoot a person in the leg, he goes down sideways.. Amazing!
  
  Story: You are working for the Agency and you are contract killer, you work for the clients that 
 your assistant Diana briefs on your mission. Your character Agent 47 notices that he is targeted 
 to become killed and he must fight to save himself but during the same time! You do your job assassinating 
 your target anyway and getting the bucks for it. I can't explain the Story well but it's amazing 
 for sure! GET THIS GAME! WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? JUST RUN TO YOUR GAME STORE AND PICK ONE COPY!
 
  
  Hitman Blood Money is the most impressive game that involves freedom i've ever player since GTA. 
 Hitman Blood Money is definately recommended by me. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banemalar0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  The premise of the Hitman series has intrigued me enough to try each new game, regardless of how 
 I felt about previous entries into the series. This experimenting has led to both good and bad 
 results, fortunately Hitman: Blood Money through its clever mission design and open ended nature 
 yields some great ones.
  
  The basic concept of the game remains unchanged. You are the genetically engineered assassin 47, 
 and your targets are given to you by your mysterious employer. After the briefing given by said 
 employer and picking your weapons and equipment, youre dropped into the world and begin a process 
 of trial and error, figuring a way to dispatch your targets as you see fit.
  
  Ways to kill your targets and styles of play are varied. You can just walk in guns blazing, sneak 
 around while trying to find a silent way to kill your target, or you can find a more entertaining 
 and elaborate way of killing your target like poisoning food, dropping a chandelier on him, or 
 sabotaging a gas barbecue. Each level is filled with such Rube Goldberg like ways of killing your 
 targets, and the game rewards players who opt for a combination of stealth and ingenuity. 
  
  The targets are usually well protected by bodyguards, or security personnel. And if you dont 
 want to just shoot your way in youre going to have to think a bit. Taking ones time and closely 
 observing the actions of NPCs other than your target is rewarded. If you see someone leaving theyre 
 bags unattended it might be good to watch him or her. If you were to plant a bomb in said bag, 
 the bomb could be delivered right to your target. allowing you to kill from a distance. Observation 
 is also needed to infiltrate many areas blocked off at the beginning of a level.
  
  The sneaking mechanics are fairly basic, and its sometimes hard to know how aware those around 
 you are of your presence, but thankfully thats not the only non-violent too way infiltrate areas. 
 You can also kill or sedate others and steal their clothes. Masquerading as a doctor or security 
 guard will allow you access to new parts of the level. Youll have to stay in character though. 
 Performing actions unbecoming of your assumed identity, like carrying a gun as a waiter or sprinting 
 through areas for no reason if as a guard on patrol will tip off others. A meter on the bottom 
 left lets you know how suspicious your peers are. 
  
  Sneaking is encouraged by notoriety points. By taking the run and gun approach you gain notoriety 
 at the end of each mission. The more notoriety you have the easier other will recognize you in 
 the following missions. But you can spend money, which is gained in great amounts for each successful 
 mission, to eliminate any notoriety you may have gained. Money is so plentiful that the notoriety 
 system might as well not be there at all.
  
  The music flows with your actions, changing depending on what youre doing at the moment. Its 
 particularly satisfying to finally rub out a target and be rewarded with a dramatic and fitting 
 piece of music. The music can also give you hints about how aware of your presence the authorities 
 are. Throughout the game very specific pieces of music signal suspicious guards. The sound effects 
 themselves are serviceable if unremarkable. Despite the importance stealth sound effects dont 
 play a very large role in gameplay.
  
  On a mid-range PC the graphics are fairly dull. Low texture resolutions and sloppy modeling plague 
 the lower graphics settings. But if youre an avid PC gamer chances are you have a system that 
 will run this game more than adequately.
  
  The Hitman games have always been made or broken by their level design, the first Hitman being 
 the prime example. Bloody Money has the best design in the series to date, some of the later missions 
 like the punch and free form nature of the earlier ones in the game, but they are also of a grander 
 and more dramatic nature.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money will please any fan of the series, and new players will find the open ended 
 design and dark humor entertaining.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyurth
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  The best one of the hitman series to date, still retaining all features which made the previous 
 games so entertaining. Lots of possibilities in disguising yourself, poisoning food, blowing stuff 
 up and making hits look like accidents. The levels are built to allow many ways to complete your 
 objectives.
  The weapon customization options are cool, it's really possible to pimp up your silverballers with 
 laser sight, full auto fire and all that, but the most fun in my opinion is not to bring any weapons 
 at all, except your syringes, mines and fibre wire. 
  It can take a lot of time to discover the best way to go in a level, even though the necessary 
 actions performed might be minimal. Patience is required (if that's your preferred playing style) .
 
  Some details just don't make sense (it's not suspicious if I stand in a jacuzzi wearing a vip 
 tuxedo?) but the rest of the makes up for that.
  The music is again well selected and composed. I love the slow, serene intro featuring Schubert's 
 Ave Maria, and it sure is something different from standard action game music. In-game, the music 
 knows how to create suspense in dangerous situations.
  Great game, keep'em coming!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Well the first thing u notice about this game is that It's 3D engine has changed.
  visuall and graphics are outstanding and the phisics are smoothly improved. 47 can now climb some 
 higher surfaces when walking to them. the atmosphere of the game is absolutely great. the music, 
 scenery design, etc. offer u the best atmosphere that a game like this can. many new tricks are 
 added to this game like distraction. u can throw a coin and the guard will be distracted by its 
 sound. levels are perfectly designed and u should finish them as silently as u can because that 
 way u will earn more money. and finally, the story is so impressive and will get u with it till 
 the very end and a nice finishing.
  in summary if we want to describe the game we should just say that it's SUPERB!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Hitman blood money is the fourth game of the series bringing back agent 47 to kill and kill more 
 targets in the same bloody way.... which is a downside of the game.
  
  Little adds are added to the gameplay that makes it confusing at first .. but once you master it 
 after the training mission things become easy...
  
  While the most impressive change is the graphics which are fantasticly done .. every detail is 
 there from the cloth to face impressions ending with the breath taking enviroment.
  
  Although I was turned off by the idea of the kill .. I found that there are a few changes like 
 pushing someone over a fence into a shark tank .. and then see the sharks eat the body.. beside 
 the storyline that is simple but solid mekes you want to know the end....
  
  Overall i did enjoy it .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  The Hitman series just keeps getting better.
  
  The GOOD: Greate graphics, awesome sounds, good story to get you addicted to the game. I think 
 there is a good replay value since the difficulty levels give you a challenge. The sounds are unbelievable 
 like in a movie, and the graphics are really cool and doesn't eat much in to your resources. Good 
 gameplay.
  
  The BAD: In lesser difficulties the AI beheviour can be predictible and is really easy. The game 
 is pretty short, has about 11 missions, It took me about 6 relaxed days to play the game play
 
  
  Overall it you have played the other Hitman games then Hitman Blood Money just gets better, If 
 you havent played the other games then this is where you can learn about agent 47 and his past. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The newest installment in Eidos famous Hitman series came to store shelves on May 30th of 2006. 
 Giving the player the chance to once again play the role of Agent 47, a bald assassin with a barcode 
 on the back of his head for hire. Completing contracts from across the globe, Blood Money sends 
 the player to interesting and detailed environments as you plan out and your hits and exact your 
 justice all for one reason, money.
  
  Blood Money is really not that different from other Hitman games in the series. Youll find yourself 
 getting interesting contracts where youll be paid to kill designated people, while also completing 
 other tasks along the way. Youll soon come to find out while doing missions that your agency has 
 been all but exterminated and that you and the woman who assigns your contracts are the only ones 
 left. Youll then learn that an alternate agency has been taking out your operatives one by one 
 and are setting their sites on you and this is where the fun begins. Before each mission, youll 
 be able to choose which weapons youd like to take with you depending on how large they are and 
 if theyre able to be hidden in your coat. If not, youll be given notice where you can find your 
 alternate weapons throughout the mission. While choosing weapons, you can also choose to upgrade 
 each of them with different items such as silencers and different bullets changing everything about 
 the weapon, but youll only be able to change them as much as your bank account allows it. When 
 you complete each mission, youll be given your money for the completed contract and this money 
 you can use towards your weapons or towards paying off the press and other people to keep your 
 notoriety low if you accidentally went on a killing spree the previous mission. Otherwise, if your 
 notoriety stays high, people will notice you a lot sooner in different situations.
  
  One thing this game gives you is freedom. The levels are extremely well done in design and the 
 developers never made your path linear giving the game more replay value in the end. But thats 
 only the beginning of the non-linearity displayed in Blood Money. The ways that you can take out 
 your targets are almost limitless in most missions. Do you want to blow them away from behind, 
 poison their food or drink, drop a heavy object onto them from above; there are just multitudes 
 of ways to kill people in this game. And like in the previous installments in the series, whenever 
 you take someone out, youre able to switch clothes with them to possibly enter areas that were 
 once restricted to you in the past. Want to go in the security office to retrieve the video tape 
 that recorded your appearance in the hallway, take out a guard, grab his clothes and then proceed 
 to the office to retrieve the tape. Or, take out the whole security office full of guards with 
 a silencer before they alert someone and then grab the tape. The only thing with the non-linearity 
 I this game is you have to have patience. Do just react off of everything that happens in the game. 
 Take each situation and think it out; whats going to happen if you do this or that, and then you 
 proceed. Those of you who have patience and creativity will be able to complete your mission without 
 any hassle or suspicion, and then make your exit without a care. Others who lack patience and creativity 
 might get upset and then use trainers or codes to kill everyone in the level, but if I were you, 
 I would take your time. You get so much more out of this game. Forget the fact that the game might 
 even have any codes or cheats and challenge yourself to complete each mission without being noticed 
 by anyone. At the end of each mission, youll be given a newspaper where youll be able to read 
 the front page of the assassin that happened in the previous mission. These provide some entertainment, 
 but after a while, youll start to read some of the same lines over and over and by the end, youll 
 probably be skipping them altogether.
  
  The graphics in Blood Money are very well done. The level design is perfect for each mission and 
 you should really take time to learn the layout of each level to see how you can fully utilize 
 it all. The character models look great and have nice animation as they move throughout the different 
 rooms and levels. There is just a little awkward movements by some characters in some situations, 
 but this is pretty rare and it wont take away from the overall experience. Throughout the different 
 missions, youll be able to switch into different clothes of different characters and amazingly 
 enough they all fit Agent 47 well enough. The guns that youll be able to use during the missions 
 are all unique and through different upgrades and different combinations, the design and function 
 of each weapon look pretty good overall. Imagine a shotgun with a silencer, sound fun? Youll be 
 able to switch between first person and third person by the push a button and this can be helpful 
 in different situations. When in first person and you have your gun out, Blood Money almost looks 
 like a regular first person shooter, but dont be dismayed, the developers didnt put much more 
 into the first person that whats already been said and that isnt much. Overall, the games characters 
 and levels look extremely good and different from each other.
  
  Sound in Blood Money is pretty decent also. Voice acting by the different characters sound great 
 and really adds to the different situations that youll be thrown in. Pretty much everyone has 
 a different and realistic voice, so there wont be any confusion with any of the people out and 
 about in the missions. The background music is decent and provides a little atmosphere. It can 
 be described by saying that it never becomes irritating, but its never really noticeable either 
 in most missions. The opening score is truly a great composition and youll hear it again on the 
 last level. The different weapons sound mostly different and can make different noises when shot 
 at different targets. 
  
  There wasnt a multiplayer component with Blood Money, nor has there ever been with any of the 
 previous installments in the series. Hitman has always been a single player game with lots of replayability, 
 but only if youre creative as is the case with Blood Money. After completing a mission, youll 
 notice other ways that you couldve done something or completed a task and thats where it begins. 
 One example would be the birthday party cook out level. How do you get into the house to kill the 
 man being protected by multiple F. B. I Agents because hes on the witness protection program? Do 
 you take out a caterer to the party and use his clothes to enter the house, or maybe take out the 
 clown and use his outfit to gain entrance to the party. Or maybe one of the other possibilities 
 because there are quite a few to apply when on each mission and this is where the developers succeeded 
 with giving the player a non-linear fun experience. There are also different difficulty levels 
 where you can challenge your skills, with some only allowing a certain number of saves pr mission, 
 or how well the A. I. will pick up on you each time they see you.
  
  One final note must be said about this game, with how the ending is, Eidos could easily take the 
 cake for having one of the best end game levels with Hitman: Blood Money. I dont want to spoil 
 it too much but if youre not one to participate, you might miss out on something. Thats all Im 
 going to say and hopefully youll appreciate the creative idea the developers had with the last 
 level.
  
  So, to conclude, if youve enjoyed the previous games in the series, youll love this new installment 
 and if youre new to the series, this is definitely the game that will make you a fan of the Hitman 
 series altogether. With its great graphics, level design and decent sound, this title could easily 
 appeal to anyone looking for a game where they could use a little creativity and spend quite a 
 bit of time with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darktalonus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  The Hitman series is an odd ball, not quite a full run and spray FPS and yet not quite a full stealth 
 game. Blood money follows the standard conventions of the series and adds a few twists, albeit 
 these new twists are not all useful or effective.
  
  In past Hitman games the idea was simple; you enter a location with a target to kill and a lot 
 of guards in the way. Normally the progression was simply to find a low rank guard in an out of 
 the way spot, knock him out and take his cloths and move on to the next rank of guard until you 
 can move about the location relatively freely. Once you are dressed for the occasion the following 
 game play was like a puzzle, watching the movements of the guards and target and figuring out which 
 hoops you had to jump through to kill the target. Of course there is always the secondary tactic 
 of killing everything that moves on the map, but you don't get the coveted Silent Assassin ranking 
 that way.
  
  In previous games it has been advertised that you can take out the target in anyway you choose, 
 but in reality there were only one or two practical ways to take out the target and your job as 
 the player was to figure out that perfect path. It could take hours and hundreds of respawns to 
 get it just right, as one of the annoyances of previous games was the unforgiving and sometimes 
 confusing AI. Many times you would have all the pieces in place and about to fiber wire your helpless 
 unsuspecting victim when a random guard runs in after you and starts unloading his sidearm for 
 no clear reason. Other times merely walking close to the wrong door or area was enough for the 
 AI to get pistol happy.
  
  Fortunately Blood money addresses both of these problems. While it is still true that there is 
 usually one perfect method for killing the target, which commonly involves making it look like 
 an accident, it is actually possible to take out targets on several maps in a variety of ways. 
 There is still the standard watching of guard patrol paths and certain hoops to be jumped through, 
 but its not as restrictive as before. 
  
  For example, on one mission you have to steal a necklace in addition to killing the main target. 
 In previous games there would be one way and only one way to get the necklace and keep the Silent 
 Assassin rating. In Blood money, however, you can sabotage a device that kills the target and loot 
 the necklace from the body, or drug the drink the necklace wearer always drinks and snatch the 
 necklace when they drop unconscious, or just sneak up behind the wearer and sedate them when they 
 are away from the guards.
  
  Another way Blood money is improved is the AI. A couple of the big changes are the warnings and 
 the split screen. When the player gets near a sensitive spot or door guards will warn the player 
 to back away rather than whipping out the pistol and blowing you away. Also when a player is discovered 
 in an area they shouldnt be in guards will rush to the player and tell them to leave rather than 
 start shooting. This is a good thing and a bad thing. On the up side players dont have to reload 
 simply because they got one step too close to a door and it is more convincing that a guard would 
 tell the player when dressed as an npc to walk away rather than psychically knowing you are a hit 
 man and start killing you. On the down side it is VERY exploitable. Instead of getting proper clearance 
 for some areas the player can simply run through and play leapfrog, running from one safe area 
 to another, or plant a device/weapon in a spot and leave the area with only a warning.
  
  The split screen shows up whenever something important happens. Say guards found a body or the 
 target in entering the area. At times it can be annoying but for the most part it keeps the player 
 informed and solves some of the guesswork in previous games. In Blood money it will show you a 
 guard finding the body of the guard whos outfit you are wearing, so when the locals start opening 
 fire on you its not a complete surprise leaving you asking why did they just do that.
  
  Blood money also adds some new features that while interesting are not really all that useful or 
 important. After each mission a newspaper is generated detailing your exploits. At first this seems 
 incredibly cool, but after the third or fourth time you realized exactly how its generated and 
 it looses some of that appeal after you realize its little more than a total of how many shots 
 you fired and how many people you killed. Seldom used was the new crowd feature were the game would 
 supply you with a large moving crowd. However, the crowd was little more than eye candy as it was 
 completely unresponsive to your actions  such as unloading all your ammunition in all your guns 
 on said crowd
  
  Another new feature is notoriety, which in theory sounds like an important thing. Notoriety is 
 generated after the mission is over based on how played, if you were a Silent Assassin there will 
 be no notoriety, if you walked through with a shotgun and killed every guard but left the civilians 
 to tell the tale youll have a large amount of notoriety. Supposedly having high notoriety will 
 make guards on later levels more suspicious of you, or even knowing your face and opening fire 
 on the famous hit man. However, in practice youll never have enough notoriety to notice, as it 
 is relatively cheap to bring it down to zero no matter how high you get it. You can also upgrade 
 your weapons, but like notoriety you rarely run into money problems so it isnt all that hard to 
 upgrade your favorite weapon to the max.
  
  Game mechanics aside the game is very pleasing to the senses. Locations are well done and lighting 
 effects deepen the mood. Certain missions like the heaven and hell party feature remarkable locations, 
 while others like Curtains Down feature kills that are unforgettable. For the most part the music 
 adapts to the location and switches well enough as to make you feel part of the location without 
 drawing attention to itself. The locations vary from opera houses to southern riverboats to rehab 
 clinics. The only gripe I have about the locations is that quite a few are located in the Mississippi 
 region, and those missions were some of the less enjoyable. One mission in particular, The Murder 
 of Crows, seemed more of a tech demo for the new crowd feature than a real mission
  
  In the end Himan: Blood Money follows the tenets of the series while improving on them along the 
 way. If you enjoyed previous Hitman games this one will certainly satisfy, offering some very interesting 
 levels and targets. However, if you are looking for a standard run and gun shooter the guards at 
 the door will warn you away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood money is the best in series, I have played all games of hitman but this is my favorite 
 because this is actually playable for a average player and there are some amazing moves included 
 like you can get top of an elevator and strangle the guy below he wont know what hit him and also 
 you can hide him on top thats really cool.
  
  And weapons can be upgraded with silencer or a with a scope or with higher fire power to all weapons 
 that you have on custom.
  
  Graphics are good, sounds are ok, this game is highly addictive. Dont take those info saying that 
 Hitman Blood money is a doped game this is a really good game, even so every task is possible you 
 will feel impossible but really if look at the map and plane you attacks you can easily complete 
 your tasks.
  
  But every game has a flow, I REALLY REALLY HATE THE ENDING ?%$^&$^&he shouldnt die, come on if 
 he dies on war its Ok he get caught to a dude that cant even walk and betrayed by a women &? 
 $#! (Yeh she saved his life, but may be he could have fight his way trough) . Yes OK she gives back 
 life and a couple of silver barrels but? Im sorry if I spoiled the game but come on 
 get real we r talking about HITMAN. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitzy69
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This review will likely be a bit slanted toward the 'good side.' I'll try and keep it heartless 
 as per the usual, however.
  
  When Hitman: Blood Money opens up, some gamers would likely be confused. Fans would wonder, just 
 why Mr. 47 is laying on a funeral bed. A pure white ensamble adorns his shadowy figure, complete 
 with gloves, and an angelic requim accompanies his death. He is surrounded by some wondrous architecture, 
 full white marble and curved glass, a priest circling him and a crucifix hovering above nearby, 
 as candles glow around him. White roses complete the scene, bushes of them seperating the benches 
 on which many occupants sit. The only thing one has to wonder, is just why he has so many people 
 attentding his funeral, and just who they are.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money covers the events of the last few events of Mr. 47's life. The cutscenes are 
 done from the standpoint of a mysterious, wheel-chair ridden and badly disfigured male, explaining 
 just what was going on 'behind the scenes' of various world events to a reporter. All of these, 
 of course, involved Mr. 47. The game covers around 12 or so missions, each of varying difficulty 
 and environment. Each level will change from one to the other. From a vineyard, to an abandonded 
 Fun Park, the levels are very well done. You even get to disrupt a redneck wedding.
  
  Gameplay. Gameplay isn't always straightforward (but this is common amongst Hitman games) . You 
 have a lot of options, and unless you choose the easiest setting they are not always obvious. The 
 best or most obvious choice may not be the 'right' one for stealth or even what you're intending 
 to do. This can be frustrating for stealth heavy gamers, as they may not know or realize what the 
 developers intended. A redeeming trait is that you can 'buy intel' while in a level, at a cost 
 of 3.5k (this isn't much in game dollars, you get 200K per mission typically) . Intel will give 
 you hints as to what is going on around the level. The availability of options is also a strength, 
 however, as there are MANY options to take out a particular person and not get caught (or, get 
 caught and have fun on the way out) . The more violence you cause, the more money you'll need to 
 shell out for cleanup crews at the end, to make all those innocent civilians and guards not on 
 your kill list not become 'evidence' of your existance. If you leave witnesses, you gain notoriety, 
 and must pay to bribe officials in order to have it removed. You'll have to adapt to every environment 
 as well, as they all have different security procedures and areas where one disguise will do nothing. 
 For example, one mission is a midnight rave -- one area of the party is in the basement, known as 
 the "Hell" portion of the party. Another is thrown on the top floor of the building, known as the 
 "Heaven" area. Only heaven-dressed guests are allowed in the top floor. Only hell dress guests 
 are allowed in the bottom. You get the idea. All in all, the stealthier you are and the more accurately 
 you kill your targets (with no 'collateral damage') , the more money you earn for weapon upgrades. 
 Action oriented players will have a tough time. One neat effect is when you're killed, you can 
 'redeem' yourself. When killed you enter a bullet time effect; if you get three headshots in the 
 slow mo time, you'll get a sliver of health to go on. If you die on that sliver of health though, 
 you're dead for good.
  
  Controls. Good controls to a game like this are essential. It was pulled off, but not as well as 
 it could've been. Often times you'll press a button to do one thing, and do the one thing you didn't 
 want to do. For example, you placed a small, undetectable bomb in a suitcase. The action button 
 will either let you A) place it on the conveyor to let it be scanned, go undetected, and let you 
 pick it up on the other side of the metal detector. Or, B) you'll whip out the mine from the suitcase 
 and show everyone just what you were planning. It doesn't help that these sort of mess-ups seem 
 to be based on the level, as the action you want to do will be exclusive to a zone, while the other 
 action is common (the conveyer only happens once, putting bombs in the suitcase can happen anywhere 
 there is a suitcase and you've got a bomb) . They're good, once you get used to them, but some people 
 will be put off by them. If there are multiple actions at a single point (say, an elevator button 
 to go from the 8th floor to the lobby) you can hold the key down to select what you do. The game 
 doesn't pause during this, leaving you to cycle through a menu of options. This is wierd, because 
 the inventory screen pauses the game and lets you decide on things. They give you a tutorial at 
 the beggining of the game to get you started.
  
  Sound. Sound here is great. The music chimes in whenever you've done something important, or when 
 you've done something stupid and started a fight with security. You can pick up on things through 
 what music chimes in; get a disguise and the body is hidden, and some creepy, almost foreshadowing 
 music will start to congragulate you. Even what you're wearing can make a noise; if you walk on 
 hard wood floors in dress shoes, the typical 'clicks' of the heels will sound off. In slippers, 
 soft footsteps. The attention to detail is scary, because you really have to listen to determine 
 if what's going on is happening in the game or happening around you in the real world. Once you 
 get used to certain sounds though, you naturally drown them out.
  
  Graphics. The graphics are, honestly, one of it's strongest points. They always have been in the 
 hitman games. Referring back to the Heaven and Hell party -- in heaven, there is a misty, white-blue 
 light washing over the dance stage. Glowing blue-ish confetti glitters as it rains from above, 
 looking like icy glitter. It's peppered with people, males dressed in white with odd and well rounded 
 masks, while females are dressed in what you'd expect of a party like this (scantily clad, angel 
 wings, etc.) . Even the security got in on the party, wearing gold masks and black t-shirts to differentiate 
 themselves. The hell area is very fitting and different, which looks like something out of Doom 
 (the old Doom, only improved) , with pyrotechnics abound (yes, you can use these pyrotechnics to 
 your advantage to make an 'accidental' death) . Even the liquor at the bar is tinted red by lights.
 
  
  The only problem is it may only be worth a single playthrough for some people, as the ending is 
 something you can see coming, and the storyline is one of the games stronger points. if you're 
 good at stealth games, getting top ratings on your first try, this might be a little challenge 
 for you -- if you screw up, though, you'll be on the receiving end of some hurt, in the form of 
 a mass of guards. Stealthers may find it satisfying to go through the game using the quietest methods 
 possible, then go back and use the most violent methods possible; it's really up to the player 
 as to what they will want to do. Go in unarmed and try to disarm all the guards? Go in with a shotgun, 
 steal a catering suit, and go berserk? Slip in as a waiter, poison a cake, and give the treat to 
 your target as a gift? It's all in the players hands, especially after they've beaten the game.
 
  
  Overall, if you're a sucker for pretty architecture, and the look of 'the high life,' this game 
 will appeal to your tastes instantly. There is a level of sophistication in this game that really 
 makes it feel like a movie of some kind, even though it's interactive. You get to see how people 
 act -- if you have a keen eye -- when they think nobody is watching, which adds to it's realism factor. 
 Yet, it keeps it's distance from being too real by adding some of the most unbelievable mission 
 objectives (or methods to achieve them) that you'll find. Ever kill a party clown, then dump his 
 naked body into a trash compactor, and infiltrate a house dressed as the deceased comedian? The 
 action lovin' players out there will be a little dissapointed for getting penalized on the carnage 
 they cause, though. Go in expecting a stealth game, and you can cause carnage later.
  
  On a final note, the ending scene, Requiem, even lets players choose how they want the game to 
 end. That is, if they figure it out. If it's one party Mr. 47 can ever claim to over-do it on, 
 it's a good funeral... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11skaterdude11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  one: it was kinda fun to go around kill targets
  two: the graphics were really well done 
  three: there were alway different things you could do to get or kill you target.
  
  I thought 
 the graphics were done good the thing I did'nt like was the different bugs that you would find 
 in there every once in awhile it would some times mess you up in a level. when I played hitman 
 2 I did'nt like that game that much because I could get past a level the level requiered you to 
 blow up a wall and when I placed a bomb and denate it would not explode it would dissapear that 
 was a pretty big bug... or maybe somethings wrong with my game. huh??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenday
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  O M F G ! This game completly owns. By far the best Hitman game so far. Sweet guns, especiallt 
 the pistols which you start of with, which is weird because usually the things you start off with 
 suck. I love the other weapins you have, suringes, machine guns, anoth gun of you choice (Sniper, 
 Shotgun or another machine gun) , your choker thingy, whatever you call it! It's fun the way you 
 can climb pipes, jump boxes, do all sorts of stuff! My favourite thing is not just killing people 
 with a silenced gun, but headbutting them, or choking them, or even throughing them into the ocean 
 or off a cliff! The gameplay is awsome, sweet graphics nice sound affects, you'd think you were 
 in realy life! This game is a MUST get sell your Family to get it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Wow, the game is so well made. Well the one thing that i liked is that you have a lot of options 
 in killing a target, unlike before wherein there are typically two ways, a public execution and 
 an assasin. The graphics are great, as expected of a new 2006 game. And also the game could be 
 quite fast.
  
  I think though that this is better than Contracts, as Contracts was pretty much linear, and it 
 was mostly a visual upgrade of Hitman 2. In some respects, this had better graphics and gave you 
 more options for killing, though wish that there could be more, cause typically there are about 
 3-4 ways now, maybe 6 or more would be really exciting (though it'd be really hard to do for developers) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgun12shot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I first downloaded the demo, found it was a good game, so I bought the full version at best buy 
 for forty bucks. I never owned any previous versions of hitman, so I was a little curious of the 
 bar code on the back of 47's head, turns out he is a clone.
  Anyhow, I found this to be one of the "better" games out there, lately there hasn't been such a 
 good selection for pc gamers. When trying to do things quietly and stealthy it is easy to become 
 a part of the game, you feel captured. It is unlike other games, find a security gaurd, look around 
 to see if anyone else is looking, pull out your silenced pistol and before he has time to react 
 fast enough you put a bullet through his head, quickly take his clothes and throw him in a dumpster. 
 I first played through on expert, and sometimes it was so difficult I would kill anyone who I thought 
 would get in my way, getting rating such as "mad butcher", or "phycopath". That is one of the neat 
 features of the game, depending on how you did, you will get a rank depending on how you took part 
 in the mission, "stalker", "the ghost", 
  "the eraser", "thug", "mad butcher", "phycopath", "deranged slayer", are some of them. You also 
 get to read the papers that will tell you your accuracy... or what weapon you used. 
  The environments just feel right, the sounds, the props, everything about them. One of the most 
 striking parts of the game was when you entered this cult like club, the visuals were striking. 
 
  I say if you are looking for a game with a challenge, and you have alot of patience, buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsawjesus
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  The first thing that stands out is the graphical improvements over the previous games in the series. 
 Your first mission which also acts a tutorial places you at an old amusement pier and here the 
 graphical improvements are instantly noticeable which gives the impression that the whole game 
 layout is going to be a class above Contracts, Agent 47 looks more realistic and moves less mechanically 
 and the textures are smooth.....
  
  Once you have taken in the graphical qualities of Blood Money its time to get going on the level 
 to see what s what. Soon you come up against your first foes who in honesty lets the first initial 
 encounters down with the quality of voice work and unfortunately this is persistent throughout 
 this entire level. Poor voice overs aside the game sees you doing what 47 does best and that is 
 make people meet a grizzly end or trick them into thinking your one of the team by wearing a dead 
 mans (sedated if your kind) clothes. Because this level is a tutorial it does help you every step 
 of the way with little notes popping onto the screen instructing you as to what to do and how which 
 also introduces you to the new elements of Blood Money such hiding bodies in boxes, hiding in closets, 
 throwing knives and the hand to hand combat feature. All these new elements of play are interesting 
 however it soon starts to feel somewhat clumsy at times and rehashed. The combat feature which 
 is a nice implement to the game just feels sloppy, its like a switch between "Stealth Assassin" 
 to "Thug" in the blink of an eye, this entire combat system could of been made a lot more real 
 to the game if 47 used more stealth combat such as breaking the neck of a victim or silencing them 
 with a lightning throat chop as oppose to the head butt or punch that is currently used, it just 
 loses class with crude action.
  Another element is added is the push feature which allows you to push from behind a victim, this 
 could involve them falling from a roof or balcony etc.... its a simple feature but quite interesting. 
 
  The other feature that really stands out is the disposing of bodies, this can be done in different 
 ways such as hiding a body in a chest or tossing them into an incinerator or just chucking the 
 body over a ledge, never to be seen again.
  Another great feature that has been added is the weapons upgrade menu before starting a mission, 
 this is a simple but great feature and it does exactly what it says 'Upgrades Weapons', for instances 
 you can upgrade you Ballers with a silencer, laser scope, longer clips, lower velocity bullets 
 etc, nice and easy and just adds a nicer edge to the general approach to mission. 
  A notoriety feature has been also added, this involves a press cutting of your previous mission 
 and can either be inaccurate to the mission or semi accurate, this is is decided on how you approached 
 the mission, such as inaccurate if you used stealth or semi accurate if you when in all guns blazing, 
 but that said you can also bribe people into a vow of silence, it sounds more exciting than it 
 is, I initially when first hearing about the bribe option thought it would activate a mini game 
 that sees 47 jamming a gun in a witnesses face or taking a family member from the house, alas no, 
 it involves ticking a box.
  The missions are set out as we have come to know them, a target, a few body guards or police, lots 
 of aimless walking from witnesses and a whole host of ways to terminate you victim. The general 
 AI leads to suggest that witnesses and victims are on day release from a mental hospital so don't 
 expect any edition on it, they are still aimless and stupid. The level designs are nothing overly 
 new, a large area and lots of places of interest to find costumes, weapons etc. 
  One impressive level is set at a carnival where you find yourself surrounded by literally hundreds 
 of party goers, unseen in any other game and all are potentially killable.
  
  The one thing which I found somewhat annoying is the collisions dynamics with objects are not thought 
 out, on one mission you find yourself invisibly walking through giant leafs, only a minor annoyance 
 but something that if though out properly could of been added and unnoticed as oppose to not added 
 and mind bogglingly dumb and noticeable.
  
  So once you take the above on board you have a similar game to the rest on the series, great fun 
 but clumsy. The initial release was buggy as hell but the release of the retail patch which coincided 
 with the actually day release of the game fixed most bugs. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skippysqueez123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was a good open ended game. You get a contract and you get accomplish it any 
 way you want to. As long as you kill your guy... But being stealthy is probably an easier and funnier 
 way to do this. There a lot of things you can do in this game. You can change your disguise, posin 
 food, even, modify your weapons
  
  The game play was pretty good, you actually have to work to kill the guy but once you do it you 
 feel accomplished.
  
  the graphics are pretty good they may not be as good as some of the other games that are about 
 to come out but they are better then they were in hitman: sa 
  
  The sounds are good, they actually sound like there supposed to.
  
  The story line was very 
 interesting the ending was also very good. There are a number of saves you can have, depending 
 of which difficulty, but if something doesnt work you can load up your saved game and try something 
 else. I thought this was well worth the money
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3927
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  The bald-headed contract killer known only as 47 is in good form, primed and ready for more work 
 in the latest installment in the dark, stylish Hitman series. Though very similar to the last two 
 games in the series, the open-ended stealth action gameplay offered by Hitman: Blood Money is still 
 just about as tensely exciting as ever. A few new twists to the formula, an intriguing story, and 
 a memorably diverse, cinematic sequence of missions further make Blood Money worth it. This is 
 the fourth game in the Hitman series, but previous experience with the past games isn't assumed 
 or required. In fact, you'll probably be more impressed with the game if you've never played one 
 of these before. Returning players will be in for a comfortably familiar experience. The previous 
 games' stories are alluded to during the course of this one, in which 47 discovers that he and 
 his employer are being threatened by some other mysterious agency. He'll learn more of the rival 
 agency's motives as he completes his own jobs, all leading up to a surprising and climactic conclusion. 
 The starting mission leads you by the nose through one of 47's typical assignments -- to eliminate 
 a shady theme park operator, whose negligence once cost the lives of many innocent people. This 
 man, called the Swing King, even entered the drug business in the wake of his theme park's collapse. 
 47's employer has asked that a photo of a deceased loved one be the last image that the crook ever 
 sees... but when you finally reach him, he's just this sad worm of a man who grovels at 47's feet. 
 Despite the number of armed thugs you'll need to get through before putting the Swing King out 
 of his misery, this mission is easy, provided you follow the step-by-step instructions you're given. 
 Subsequent missions are substantially tougher and less linear, but this first one still is representative 
 of the types of moody, affecting scenarios you'll encounter in the game. 
  
  play it join it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I know i was late to make my review on this great game. 
  But game like HBM must give it a great patience to make a decision or judge on it.
  Any how, 
 at the past few days i decided to play the game and i found it one of the best and good games ever, 
 I know iam a huge fan to this game and i consider it one of my favorite games since part one but 
 i should tell my opinion honestly
  As we saw on this game it have a new style and new story but it have the same old gigantic mistakes
 
  
  good stuff in the game.
  1- Brand new things in this part 
  a) new suit i know it is the same colors but it more stylish and the tie and shirt patterns are 
 so cool
  b) new weapons so there is new execution styles
  c) new moves
  2- as a game play, it was good to cover the mistakes in engine 
  3- custom weapons is so great
 
  4- the idea of having money in each operation was good
  5- at disguise the suspicious level and the chance of blowing my cover is more realistic and better 
 than the other three parts
  
  Bad stuff in the game
  1- Old mistake keeps repeating. The dead body when i drag it the arms are moves in a random ways 
 and rolling by a strange way and also some times when i drag body for example from the leg the 
 knee may twisted 90 degree in the wrong direction (for Allah sake it is a human leg not a horse's 
 leg )
  2- Dejavoooos for example at the first mission (tutorial) when i grab the sniper case and jump 
 from the window half of the case is penetrated the wall and also when i used the drain pipe
  3- AI is so humble each character has one track that moves on it like if i planted a boom the target 
 will stand by it
  3- high level of graphics like shader mode 2 makes the game is unplayable to a lot of people and 
 i think Eidos makes a strange conflicting games as it releases a game with a huge disc space req. 
 like TRL with low graphics and HBM low disk space req. but with Fu**en high graphics.
  4- i hated the new character voice it is more Pacifier and i hope not finding me guilty in this 
 opinion. :-) ) ) ) ) )
  
  that is my opinion i hope i did not miss judging and after all that it still one of the greatest 
 game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thethnktnk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I first played Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, I haven't been able to get my fix of contract 
 killing. The newest installment in the series is hands down the best, and a fun and engrossing 
 game to play. The game looks and plays exceptionally well, but in the end a single annoying glitch 
 ruined the game for me. Every now and then, on certain levels, the game would crash with no warning 
 or reason. I have a pretty beefy computer, and I wasn't running anything in the background, so 
 I'm pretty sure it wasn't a hardware issue. Hopefully, IO or Eidos will fix this glitch soon, but 
 until then be warned that you may have a debilitating problem with an otherwise outstanding game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  IO interactives Hitman series started out with a fantastic idea of a mass produced assassin where 
 you controlled the 47'th man in the group. He was the best, he was the ultimate killing machine. 
 But the first game Hitman: Codename 47 had so many bugs and flaws it got some pretty bad reviews 
 world wide. But when IO released Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, the crowd went wild. The third game, 
 Hitman: Contracts, was half new half old. The game featured about 6 new missions and 6 missions 
 that where from the first Hitman game. For those who played the first game this was kind of a disappointment, 
 but the game was awesome never the less. Now Hitman: Blood Money is out and it features 12 brand 
 new missions for Mr. 47, and I can tell you that he's never been better!
  
  The graphics are very good. They've taken a long step since Contracts and are very suitable for 
 even the powerful 360. The game still looks very much like the other Hitman games, and the First 
 Person View is still crap. But the CGI videos are great, and are quite many, and the games environments 
 are as always superb. The missions takes place in some fabulous locations, and both Hitman and 
 the NPC's look great. 
  
  The sounds has always been incredible in these games. Jesper Kyd has always done the music and 
 he does an awesome job every single time. The actors has done a good job bringing everyone to life, 
 and the sound effects are nice as well. But it's the incredibly moody and cinematic music that 
 brings the sound score up to a full ten.
  
  A lot of what makes the Hitman games so great are the missions, and though the previous games have 
 had some poor missions, Blood Money features 12 missions that are all awesome. There is not one 
 single bad mission, and some of the new are among 47's best yet. You'll be sneaking around in a 
 mental institution, an amusement park and even the white house! The game features some new gameplay 
 elements such as a bunch of new moves, new weapons, and of course a lot of cool new clothes such 
 as chicken costumes and clown outfits. There's now also a new upgrade system for your standard 
 weapons. After each mission you earn money, which you can use to upgrade your weapons. The Silver 
 Ballers get a bigger mag, more powerful bullets and even a scope! You can really turn every mission 
 into a bladbath, but doing so makes the press more aware of who you are, and this'll make your 
 next missions harder. But here's a second chance to use your well earned money, you can bribe people 
 so that you don't end up in the media. This works very well, and doesn't become a to big part of 
 the game. I say it again, Hitman: Blood Money is the best game in the series and is well worth 
 your money, especially if your a Hitman fan of course, but also if you have the slightest interest 
 in stealth games or assassinations! 
  
  +
  The graphics have been greatly improved. The sounds are awesome, especially the cinematic soundtrack. 
 All the missions are great, with some being superb. Upgrading the weapons feels very satisfying.
 
  
  -
  Controls can be a bit frustrating. The saving system makes you have to finish a mission in one 
 go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istidarkman
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Contracts is fourth installment in the Hitman series which takes you into the mind of a 
 ruthlessly efficient contract killer, showing the action and the world through the eyes of Agent 
 47. Once again you assume the role of Agent 47, a skilled assassin who is rewarded for completing 
 contract killings as cleanly as possible, without hurting innocent civilians or being caught. Let's 
 see what IO Interactive prepared for us. 
  
  The Hitman series' storylines have always molded themselves into and around the gameplay well, 
 and Blood Money is no exception, with a tale that explores many of the deeper issues surrounding 
 cloning. Agent 47 is the best of the cloned assassin's. Staying anonymous, being smart and totally 
 ruthless is the key to a perfect execution. And no one performs like 47 does. Lucrative contracts 
 on the rich and powerful in high profile locations make killing for money good business. But when 
 a rival agency enters the scene it's war and only the best man will be left standing. And as the 
 rival company tries to muscle in, they re-visit some of Agent 47's more memorable jobs. But don't 
 worry, these aren't jobs from previous Hitman games.... The story is told with the help of cut-scenes 
 between the missions. I advise you not to skip them. 
  
  There are 11 missions in all (not including the training level) , each dotted across America in 
 an impressive range of locations. One moment you'll be infiltrating a rehabilitation centre in 
 Northern California to assassinate a target, then wandering around at a porno king's mansion in 
 the Rocky Mountains and the next you'll be employed to cause mischief at a Mardi Gras festival. 
 Drugs, alcohol, and prostitution will be particularly common sightings, reminding you just how 
 dark human society can be. The missions have different goals, but you must always eliminate at 
 least one person, if not two or three, and sometimes retrieve sensible goods or information. This 
 is easier said than done when you throw into the mix trigger happy guards and police, locked doors, 
 and civilians who love to do nothing more than to blow your cover. Each level can be finished in 
 a number of ways. This game makes you use your mind and is quite tricky, but when you pull off 
 a great idea and watch how everything unfolds, it leaves you with a great feeling of accomplishment. 
 The missions must be played through in a linear order, but between the game's ranking system, its 
 multiple difficulty settings, and the open-ended design of each individual mission, there's good 
 incentive to play through the game more than once. 
  
  For the most part, the core gameplay has remained the same for the duration of the series, and 
 Blood Money features the same type of stealthy combat that you've seen before. There are a few 
 nice additions to make the proceedings more believable (and entertaining) . Agent 47 has loads more 
 killing moves - you can now use hand to hand to knock people out, you can throw them into the sea, 
 stuff the bodies in bins, etc. Stealth kills are great fun too. If there is a guy in an elevator 
 you can use your fiber wire and pull them up the elevator shaft (Leon style) . The more accessible 
 control system makes performing simple acts - like opening a door or picking up a briefcase -- less 
 painful. The game still fundamentally functions like it did before, but the smarter interface works 
 more intuitively most of the time. 
  
  You have a decent arsenal of firearms to use such as pistols, shotguns, automatic rifles, high-powered 
 sniper rifles in suitcases you put together on the spot, and even remotely-detonated bombs. The 
 major difference between this game and earlier ones is that you can finally upgrade your 5 trademark 
 weapons. These are the W2000 sniper, the Hardballers, the Spas-12, the MP5 and the M4A1. Each of 
 these weapons have between 10 to12 upgrades that will drastically change performance in regards 
 to sound level, damage, precision, stability and capacity. You can basically make your weapon suit 
 your playing style. To do this, you need to use money you get paid for doing the missions. Hits 
 are affiliated with a dollar amount and even figure in your killing technique. You don't need to 
 worry about the money though, the payments are very generous - I ended up with $2.7 million at 
 the end of the game :) 
  
  Another new mechanic in Blood Money is the Notoriety system, which will actually grade you (on 
 a scale from 0 to 100) after every mission. It is essentially a system that rates how cleanly you 
 do all of your jobs. If you leave custom-made gear behind, kill civilians, get spotted on security 
 cameras, or do a bevy of other things, your notoriety will increase. Your notoriety can make you 
 easier to detect in the next mission, though by paying an affordable fee in between missions, you 
 can reduce your notoriety back down to nothing. So this turns out to be a negligible aspect of 
 play, but having some sort of continuity between missions still helps the game. 
  
  Yes, this is indeed the best Hitman game yet. The developers have taken everything that was great 
 in the previous games and made it better. The levels are bigger, the AI is (slightly) improved, 
 replay value is greater (as you tend to want to try all the different assassination possibilities) , 
 and the game looks pretty. I went through the game with a sense of satisfaction and a sadistic 
 smile on my mouth ;) The game has a cliff-hanger ending, so I assume there will be a sequel. At 
 least I hope so. If you like the Hitman games or stealth games in general, I highly recommend this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  It has been a long time since Ive played such a great game! HL2 was the last one that left 
 such impression on me. Well, Hitman is something different, but also perfect. The graphics is great, 
 sounds are totally completely perfect! How they carry you trough the story Its just 
 amazing what can be achieved by putting the right songs in right places. The quality of sound is 
 unquestionable. Its really high quality sound, so its better to have some good sound 
 card & speakers so you can enjoy it completely, or the game wont be as half as good as it 
 would be with right equipment. The main thing is the story  its just perfect, especially 
 THE END. Well, its something worth discovering, and I can surely say that many games just 
 dont know how to close the chapter. Well, I have to admit that this one surely KNOWS. Other 
 game elements, like game-play, graphics, enemies & AI, variety of choices, weapons are all 
 up to great level. When playing it never occurred to me that something is missing, or that I was 
 sorry that I couldn't do something So, the game just doesnt have any minuses, but its sound 
 and story, especially the ending left me astonished. I hope youll enjoy it as much as I 
 did ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_critic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series is quite possibly my favorite video game series ever, I have liked every one 
 of them immensely. My favorite would probably have been Hitman: Contracts the fourth game in the 
 series, however it has now been dethroned by the superior Hitman: Blood Money, I will tell you 
 why.
  
  The Hitman franchise has always been about providing a fun, replayable gaming experience, and I'm 
 happy to say that the latest dosen't dissapoint. Blood Money is like every other Hitman, enjoyable 
 and fun. It provides a pleasant gaming experience from start to finish, and like the rest a lot 
 of the missionns are highly replayable, with the exceptions of a few. 
  
  There are many good things about BM, like the stealth gameplay which is still good, the replayability, 
 the mission design, the great graphics, the engaging storyline, the fantastic soundtrack composed 
 by Jesper Kyd, the sound design in general, and the various ways and instruments to cause death. 
 I believe I should go into more detail though of the game's various strong points so here it goes. 
 Like always the stealth action has remained fun and functional, there are still all the various 
 means of which you could sneak around like changing your attire to throw off the NPCs or to gain 
 access to different areas throughout the level (Note: You should always put your suit back on at 
 the end of the level you will get extra money) . The soundtrack like every other Hitman game is 
 very well done and suits the game's theme, I especially this game's one. The graphics are also 
 extremely well designed and implemented, the various artistic touches are very nice, and you'll 
 be happy if you have a good machine like i do so you can enjoy all of the different graphical flourishes. 
 The guns which have always been an important part of the series are still well chosen and well 
 designed, there are also various ways to retrofit them with various upgrades such as scopes and 
 laser sights (Note: You can only customize your four main weapons and your on person accessories 
 however) . Also the bulletholes have returned, yay!
  
  However, there are problems with the game, such as the save feature which almost seems worthless 
 sometimes because whenever you exit or restart the level all of the saves will be erased (this 
 is not a glitch it is part of the game) . The other problem can be the gunplay, which granted was 
 never Hitman's strong point, and the point of the game really isn't about shooting anyway. Another 
 problem is the AI which can be erratic at times, because there will be moments where the AI behaves 
 normally and functions like it should, but there are times also when the AI is either stupid, or 
 way too smart (almost to the point of being psychic) , I've had many occasions where the AI would 
 know where I was hiding somewhere where the guards would never have looked given the situation, 
 but ofcourse they ran in guns blazing. These aren't that big of problems though and hey can overlooked, 
 but they are still there either way.
  
  Pros: Same great Hitman gameplay, very nice graphics and audio, great operatic score by Jesper 
 Kyd, replayable.
  
  Cons: Some AI bugs, sometimes lame shooting, some graphical glitches (I haven't experienced any 
 but a lot of people say they're there) , save system is kind of a double edge sword, no multiplayer 
 (might be bad for some people, personally I don't care) .
  
  Bottom Line: Great game that continues the series fantastic streak, albeit with some minor problems.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red-Neck
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to killing, Eidos knows what they are talking about. (at least in games) The variety 
 of different ways to kill people is increadibly large. And you have wepons and gadgets, to make 
 your kills different almost every time. 
  
  The few problems in Blood Money, is that when moving with Agent 47, you might think he is a little 
 sloppy. Also when punching people, he looks stiff, and makes it look, like knocking people out 
 is easy. 
  
  You have a large variety of fire arms to use, but most times, they wont be essensial to the kills, 
 because this IS, mainly a stealh game, where you have to hide your kill or make it look accidental, 
 like, throwing somebody off a ledge, and see them fall.
  
  You have different gadgets, and you can use them differently. For example the syringe, intead of 
 just plucking it into the guys neck, you can inject it in maybe his coffe or something, without 
 him noticing, and than when he drinks it, POW, depending on what was injected, he will ether sleep, 
 or DYE. MUAHAHHA.
  
  But there are problems you will face in BM, like for example, if too many witnesses see you in 
 action and stuff, you will have to spend some thousand bucks, for them to "forget" what they saw, 
 or or notority level, will increase, and in the next level, most people will be suspiscious about 
 you.
  
  Of, course, if you just enter somewhere forbiddeng with your black ASSASIN suit, you will obviously 
 be asked to leave, by a security guard. 
  But if you twist somebodys neck, in a quiet place, where nobdy saw you, and you change in to his 
 clothes "gurds cltohes" your passage will be permitted in, allowing you to kill your target, in 
 a rather easier method. 
  
  But when your sealthy plans isnt working, there is only one choice, eliminate your targets, in 
 front of everybofy, and make a run for the exit, although you will be seen by witnesses, you can 
 pay em later, remember?
  
  So, mainly this game has millions of ways to evily kill people, so if you like killing, this is 
 your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerG2300
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  well Hitman games have inspired me so much over the past couple years i even put hitman in front 
 of my name as my gamertag. Ive always loved the games even thought i wasent always that great at 
 em.
  
  First off I love the new graphics, with the bloom/hdr it just makes it feel so real and the character 
 models just look so cool. although some details on grass and leaves kinda got a bit low res, but 
 im past that cuz i dont look at em all the time
  
  I love the gameplay even thought it can be qute puzzling at times, this game really makes you think 
 like a hitman every single step you take effects the way people look at you. only thing i didnt 
 like was sometimes the enviroments where a bit too open for the own good, sometimes i would be 
 like "wait? what am i supposed to do again?" i would ask myself that sumtimes which i didnt like...
 
  
  the AI, was insanly annoying! there too smart! haha just kidding the smarter the ai the better. 
 they can see the blood so if you shoot someone and blood hits the floor your kinda screwed. the 
 ai somtimes sees you when there not even looking at you or if your behind a wall somtimes theyll 
 notice you sneaking.. which is a little off. the animations for the innocent bystandards sucked 
 I decided to just shoot a bunch of cops and about a room full of innocents just did the same pointing 
 and looking animation, didnt like that. 
  
  well ill admit i havent beatin the game yet but im at the.. nvrm im pretty far, dont wanna give 
 to much away. I just hope there will be another one maybe made with the unreal 3 engine :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iH4cK
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  To all newcomers, who havent played any games of the Hitman Franchise, this is the game to start 
 with! This is an excellent example for you to understand Agent 47's past.
  
  As you progress throught the game, Mini-Clips between a reporter and Alexander discuss about Agent 
 47 and how he was created, to the dangers of clones, and more that I dont with to spoil.
  
  The gameplay is like anyother of the Hitman Games, but your arsenal is more customizable, make 
 your weapons sleek and mean.
  
  To me shooting everyone you see takes away from the game. So you play it quite and use common to 
 complex strats to kill your target (s) .
  
  Plus now that 47 haves SOME new moves, it makes all the more cooler. And sometimes you do it so 
 good, you want to play it over and over. With re-playable missons!
  
  Of course my favorite misson is "The New Life" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  As a fan of all the Hitman games, I found out the this game (blood money) has so far been the 
 best one. The first one was good, it was hard, and it was fun at the same time. The only real problem 
 with the game was it didnt really explain anything, at all! The second one was also pretty good, 
 not as good as the first, but still fun. But yet the same problem of not explaining much of anything 
 thats going on, at all! Blood Money is not only fun, and hard, and long, but it actually explains 
 pretty much everything about the hit man saga. So before I go talking about all the stuff that 
 makes it good and bad, let me just say this much off the bat, its a worthy buy.
  
  Cons.
  - Agent 47 is still a tank that can take a large number of shots before he dies. Personally 
 I would really like they to make 47 a lot easier to kill, like the npcs in the game. Not as easy 
 but a lot easier then he is right now. 47 can literally take like 4 close up shotgun rounds before 
 he dies, and thats not counting body armor and stuff that you can equip yourself with.
  - when you shoot someone, they normally bleed and end up sitting in there own puddle of blood. 
 This is normal, but when 47 goes and takes there close off and puts them on, magically there is 
 no blood on the cloths. (this is ok. But I think it would make the game harder and make you think 
 twice before shooting someone to death. Makes using there cloths a lot harder.)
  - you can somehow hold 3 machine guns on your person without it being obvious. On top of that some 
 outfits where tang tops, and 47 was able to hide to still hide a bunch of guns on him with such 
 an outfit on.
  Pros.
  - You can disarm people, its cool and fun but it makes the game easier too. At least while you 
 are disarming there is a chance that the gun can go off. All in all its a cool and fun add-on 
 to the game.
  - Customizable weapons, yea you have like 5 customizable weapons. This made the game a lot more 
 fun and cool at the same time. 
  - Newspaper. Pretty much at the end of each mission you have like a front page report on you and 
 what you did and what they know about you and all sorts of things
  - Notoriety. Basically this means how popular you are in the world of hitman. 
  - Money. Basically 
 you get paid for your missions, and with the money you can customize your weapons, or you can bribe 
 people to lower your notoriety, or you can buy add-ons like body armor faster lock picking, life 
 boost pills, stuff like that.
  - Mine. Im not sure if the other games had the mine, but the mine made things interesting in this 
 game. They where def. Fun to use.
  
  I think in this game they made it more interesting to kill people, with a lot more options on how 
 to do it too. If youre a fan of any of the man hunts this I would say is the best and what I really 
 like about it is that they actually explain whats going on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  The first Hitman (Codename 47) was nothing special and it had a lot of bugs and other problems. The 
 second Hitman (Sillent Assassin) was great. He brought new contents in TPS. The third Hitman (Contract) 
 was just little better than Hitman 2 beacuse it had little better A. I. And now here is fourth Hitman 
 (Blood Money) which is definietly the best in series. Everything that was missing in previous Hitman 
 titles is here. Graphic is one of the best at the time. Interiors are amazing, animations too. 
 Great maded peoles, lot of details... Just perfect. Sound is great too. Very nice voice acting 
 and sillent music. The gameplay is one of the most variable gameplays ever beacuse you can finish 
 every level on many ways. Better way more money and you will always return from the beggining to 
 complete the level on the best rank. With the money you can upgrade your weapons. It it great maded 
 too. If you had a lot of witnesess on the mission then you can bribe them. I knew that new Hitman 
 will have all this but there is one thing that I didn't expect and it really suprised me. That 
 is the very, very good story. You will become to love Agent 47 (main character) when you see in 
 what sh... he puted himself (well it is not his fault but... you will see for yourself) . You will 
 need 10 hours to complete the game but you will for sure return to realize which way is the best 
 way to complete the level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  in so many ways, IO Interactive managed to create a very well made sequel to the most beloved Hitman, 
 but once you start playing and really get in the game you get the feeling that its not a Hitman, 
 the feeling you used to get when you played Hitman: Codename 47 or Silent Assassin or even contracts 
 is now gone.
  
  this game has an awsome new look, the well made graphics and the more realistic Fighting and sound 
 effects, they finally gave 47 the look he deserves.
  
  mission design, well each map is hugh, and you got so many ways in accomplishing your mission, 
 you could even assualt your target directly like an action just-run-and-shoot game but you will 
 have to watch out for the consequences and that new notority system.
  
  the evidence and the witnessess you leave behind affect your overall performance and how close 
 you are to getting cought.
  
  this is by far the best and most well made Hitman in the series they even brought your laptop back 
 to you but still i feel like something is missing, some factor isnt just there, that next to the 
 fact that this game won't run on any old machine, you must maintain a good computer to play it 
 properly.
  
  buy the game, play it, its hugh fun cant be missed.
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerald47
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Blood Money looked and played great and has fantastic replay value, as there are many ways for 
 Agent 47 to accomplish the missions. Also for this latest version, new skills were added as well 
 as the money earned screens which than allow you to upgrade your weapons of choice. My only complaint, 
 which may be fixed in a later patch, was that while you could save during a mission, you had to 
 complete the mission before exiting the game. Doing so would return you to the beginning of that 
 level. All the great things about Blood Money far out weigh any negatives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laggylad2
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  In this game you continue to play through Agent 47s most dangerous missions with new murderous 
 techniques to get your way through a mission, it is possible to shoot your way through a level 
 but then this adds to your notoirety level which would cause you problems with any guards in later 
 missions.
  
  I find the game to be very inventive the way that you can take out targets and enemies and the 
 graphics have been made much better with new shading effects to make environments look more real, 
 the game also allows the player to upgrade their main weapons such as adding silencers and scopes, 
 possibly laser sighting all of these things can make a mission easier for the player.
  
  To me this is the most interesting and fun game in the Hitman series, however it also has the most 
 bugs, if you are like me with an ATI graphics card then in the first version of the game you will 
 experience severely low framerates what ever graphical settings you have, there are patches to 
 fix this problem but that does give me the indication that the game was "unfinished" and even with 
 the patches installed this sometimes does not prevent random crashing which can occur at any time. 
 
  
  The save system is a lot more to be desired as they are never perminent once you exit the game 
 the saves you made on each level are gone so if you have crashes, you will find this extremely 
 frustrating.
  
  If Eidos were to release a patch that would fix all the problems this game would recieve a 9 from 
 me but because of the games problems it will only recieve an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Answer_1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of hitman but I decided to give it a try since it was one of the games 
 out this yr for the pc and man im telling you its was worth buying it and playing it. I love the 
 graphics of this game its absolutely great and I dont have a maxed out graphics card its 128 
 radeon pro 9800. Well the games tutorial is pretty straight forward and theres no better training 
 than on the field training lol. The weapons and sick I mean for a hitman this guys gets pretty 
 evil , the story isnt bad at all im defiantly looking to get the next installment as it comes 
 out. The game has some funny scenes it makes you actually feel good about punishing some of these 
 guys, you dont have to be a Sam fisher and stealthy if you want you can just be aggressive and 
 get the job done , with your rewards determined by your actions. The game does a great job pulling 
 off most things except for the clothes changing but hey I dont spoil the game at all. I have beaten 
 the game in reasonable time and would recommend anyone who wants to try something new to get it 
 the action is okay and youll never feel better being a hitman anywhere else but in this game it 
 delivers just that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wazodude99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  By far, of all the third person shooters (TPS) , this has been the best one up to date. Of course, 
 you can switch between first person (FPS) or TPS, but Hitman is just simply not made for 1st person, 
 kinda ruins the game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is awesome but there is just not enough levels. The whole game is sometimes 
 unstable and crashes easily but other than that, the story and the missions were great. The environment 
 is highly interactable and awesome. The weapons selection is great (think of Max Payne) , and there 
 are lots of weapons that you wouldn't find in other FPS or TPS. From shovels to hedge cutters, 
 nailers to butcher knives. There is also a wide variety of guns and upgrades throughout the levels 
 for you to unlock. You can customize you gun from having no sound at all to a wall piercing heck 
 of a gun. There are tons of easter eggs to be found in all the levels. There are also many different 
 ways to complete a mission. So with the amount of weapons, upgrades, easter eggs, and ways to complete 
 a mission, the replayability of this game is extremely high. For the record, I played the level 
 House Of Cards over 20 times now and I'm still not tired of it. In fact, I just can't seem to get 
 enough of it
  
  Graphics: The game graphics are great and the details are awesome, but in order to play with amazing 
 graphics and details, you need a really good computer because the game is very sensitive and unstable 
 so it may crash anytime. The graphics are great but I wouldn't say extreme or perfect, compared 
 to some other games.
  
  Sound: The background music is great and the sound affects are awesome. In this game, if you stay 
 around a bot long enough, the bot would automatically start talking, and almost everyone on the 
 level says something different, so you won't get tired of it. Plus, in some levels, stuff a simple 
 cilvilian say may be clues to how you can complete your mission. So be alert and keep your ears 
 open at all times. The environmental sound effects are a 10 out of 10. There are tons of different 
 sound effects depending on what you are interacting with, such as shooting differerent materials 
 with a gun and each material will make a own unique sound. The weapon effects in this game would 
 be a 9/10 because it get's awfully quiet some times, but then again, what kinda hitman runs around 
 with a loud machine gun shooting and killing everyone? Your weapons will mostly be silenced throughout 
 the levels (only an idiot would bring a super loud gun to a level) . When you're towards the end 
 of the game, you'll unlock some pretty loud weapons, and you can equip them if you want some extra 
 intensity and extreme firepower, such as the FN-2000 or the M14. So, yeah, you decide what you 
 want.
  
  Value: As you can see, I gave this game 9/10 for it's value. I would've given it a 10/10 but because 
 of the lack of levels and the unstablebility of the game. I took 1 mark off. Sorry Eidos.
  
  Overall: This game is awesome and a must buy! I guarantee you that it will be a whole new experience 
 from all the other games, despite it's bugs, so please! Try this game and you'll be thankful that 
 you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningsun
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is the second best game of the series! Gameplay:
  Hitman Contracts was as everybody thinks worse then Hitman 2 Silent Assassin. Not even the big 
 graphic upgrade made it beter then Hitman 2! Hitman Blood Money is a very addictive game, the trial 
 and error gameplay is absolutely perfect and the new notority system is the best idea in the series. 
 47 gets a few more moves that are handy sometimes and the accidents are also a nice improvement. 
 Some upgrades feel a bitfuturistic --&gt; (Scope on a hardballer) . But then again you can make 
 your hardballer in your personal taste. Hitman Blood Money is a game that some people will hate 
 for buying it, but others who like the gameplay would really appreciate this game. Graphics:
  Hitman Blood Money has great graphics, but its takes a lot out of your computer to see those graphics 
 and you will definetly see a noticable drop in frame rates when you set it on high!
  
  Conclusion: The best game yet of the series but only for the ones who like the gameplay!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadyghost17
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the best hitman so far, not only because of the high graphics but the story 
 itself.
  The new ways of killing your enemy, the interactive scenarios, (like in the mission Dance with the 
 Devil, where you can throw bodies to the sharks in the hell club) , it is a really amusing game, 
 but it is also small it could have more missions. The sound is also very good, the levels of difficulty 
 are amazing too, we need to know the game if we want to achieve the silent assassin ranking on 
 the top level of difficulty. It is a great game that i am surely glad to have bought it! 
  On the other hand, the bugs.... the same bugs in every single hitman....
  the bodies crossing 
 doors, agent 47 fiber wiring the air... grabbing the air but the enemy gets knocked down... and the 
 ai are stupid, they can concentrate all the forces in one spot and of course another bug, the bodies 
 are all like connected... so there are like 6 npcs searching for the hitman in the same spot, and 
 they look like one npc but actually there are 6... and of course we just grab our m4 with silencer 
 of course and there goes the 6 npcs. if it wasn't for the bugs and the sometimes annoying music 
 in some levels, i would give this game a 9.4 but because of that the game gets a 8.5. 
  Conclusion: It is a good game but the bugs keep appearing through the series of the hitman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojoblazer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Well this game surprised me since it actually ran properly on my comp (2.9GHz, 512mb ram, Radeon 
 X300 128mb) since i am used to new released games for the past few months not being able to run 
 smoothly.
  So thumbs up to that.
  Characters act more realisticly here, unlike in hitman 2 when the guards would shoot me even if 
 i had a disguise on, walking and not been discovered.
  Also i do like the story. It definitely keeps you playing. But the biggest hook for me to keep 
 playing is the way that u can equip your silverballer, shoot the guard and holster it in less than 
 a few seconds. That has always been what interested me about the hitman franchise. One exception 
 is Hitman: Codename 47 in which controls were very, very hard to master.
  
  Definitely a great addition to the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  Hitman is a game about a clone trained to be the best assassin in the world .He kills the man who 
 created him and is hired by the ICA (the International Contract Agency) . In Blood Money he is hunted 
 by a bigger agency called the Franchise .
  Blood Money has probably the greatest AI in the world ,even thought sometimes characters dont 
 act realistic. 
  In Blood Money you are paid for every hit with which you can upgrade your trademark guns or use 
 the money to lower your notoriety. Your notoriety goes up if your seen when doing a job .This is 
 the Blood Money system .You can kill your targets and you can make them look like accidents.
  In Blood Money , 47 has new moves :he can jump ,he can climb ,he can hit his enemies ,he can take 
 enemies guns when they are shooting at you.
  The game has a tutorial far more helpful than on other Hitman games.
  The graphics are advanced 
 but not so advanced as I expected .The game worked perfectly on my PC ( 1.7ghz ,384 MB of RAM ,GeForce 
 A 6600 TD)
  The sounds are great the soundtracks being written by Jesper Kyd .
  Hitman Blood Money is the best hitman game so far ,I highly recommend you play this game. 
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuseir
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  well I must say I didn't think I will enjoy it so much but I did . This is simply the best so far 
 in the hitman series , and I palyed over and over , the game play is simple but with alot of tricks 
 that agent 47 has up his sleeve . You can do a hit in variouse ways and have a great rating in 
 all .
  
  The graphics are good and the enviroment is great. also the sound effects and the music .
  
 
  I completed the game 3 times in two weeks . so I was not bored and loved each time I did it in 
 a different way . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epicentre16
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I have played thousands upon thousands of games in my time but not one of them has come close to 
 this game. Hitman: Blood money leaves you with the feeling of wanting more, it is so unbelievably 
 well put together that you would have to be a fool to criticise it. Do you remember those games 
 that you played when you were a child? do you remember the excitement you got when playing those 
 games? well I haven't felt that feeling in a long time, until I played this game.
  
  Each level can be finished in a number of ways. This game makes you use your mind and is quite 
 tricky, but when you pull off a great idea and watch how everything unfolds, it leaves you with 
 a great feeling of accomplishment.
  
  This is all I can really say to try and convince you to buy this game. You might be reading this 
 and thinking i'm a real idiot, but if you read this and it makes you want to go out and buy the 
 game, well then I have accomplished what I set out to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Hitman games, with Hitman 2 being one of top-10 favorite games of all time. 
 So when I claim that Blood Money is the best Hitman yet, that's a big statement for me. The developers 
 have taken everything that was great in the previous games and made it better. The levels are bigger, 
 the AI is (slightly) improved, replay value is greater, and the game looks beautiful. There is 
 still room for improvement, but not much.
  
  Gameplay: Like the previous 3 games, you are cast as an assassin working for an agency that provides 
 contracts. This time, all of your missions (except 1) are set in America, where you'll have to 
 get to the bottom of a plot to destroy the agency. Unlike the other games, you're paid for each 
 hit, and you can use the money to upgrade weapons, buy other items (like bombs, protective vests, 
 health boosts, etc.) , and lower you notoriety level. The payment are very generous, and I ended 
 up with $2.5 million at the end of the game, which seemed rather excessive. Also, there is really 
 no need to spend money on upgrading most weapons, since an upgraded silverballer and a sniper rifle 
 will do just fine for any mission. Regarding notoriety, this is a 0-100 meter that goes up if you 
 are seen while doing a job. You can bribe witnesses to lower the rating. It's an interesting touch, 
 especially since the notoriety rating affects how the newspaper will report your actions and appearance 
 after each mission and how difficult the next mission will be.
  
  This game is more about stealth than the previous ones, and it's a bit harder to earn the highest 
 ratings. I played on expert difficulty (which I recommend for most people familiar with these kinds 
 of games) , and you can't just blast your way through most level (or you'll probably end up dead) . 
 Anyway, doing so would take a lot of the enjoyment out of the game. The game is at its best when 
 tension sets in and you're wondering if your disguise is working, or whether anyone is going to 
 find that dead body you hid, or whether you can make it to the exit without tipping off the guards. 
 Thankfully, this game adds a lot of new gameplay elements to make things interesting. You can hide 
 bodies in containers, hide in closets, climb and scale things, take hostages, push people off ledges, 
 and more. And finally, Agent 47 has a melee attack which is pretty potent. Of course, all of the 
 old moves are there, such as poisoning by syringe, strangulation by fiber wire, death by sniper 
 rifle, etc. All of the levels are large, so you'll have to do some trial-and-error runs to get 
 a sense of where things are as well as the possible angles that you can approach the target (s) . 
 And since there are usually a few to several different ways to kill targets, the game has some 
 replay value. 
  
  Since I have a thing for bombing people up with remote-controlled C4, my best rating was "Professional." 
 To get the highest rating (which I assume is "Silent Assassin") , expect to work on a mission for 
 a 2-3 hours (at least on expert difficulty or higher) . Altogether, there are 12 missions which 
 will take 25-35 hours to complete, if you are playing them as intended (stealthy) . Generally, the 
 AI is convincing. However, as in the previous games, there will be a few occasions when guards 
 seem to know things that they shouldn't, or seem to not notice things that they should.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are great, especially the environments. Las Vegas looks phenomenal, as do 
 the White House and suburbia levels. The game has a very refined, stylist quality about it. Character 
 models are pretty good, but not vastly improved over the last two games and many are repeated. 
 The game has many more animations, especially for Agent 47.
  
  Sound: Everything works well in this department. Solid voice acting, nice ambiant sounds, and another 
 solid soundtrack by Jesper Kyd. All of the weapons sound appropriate, but this is a game in which 
 you want to be as quiet as possible!
  
  Technical Issues/Stability: I played this game with the patch that came out right at the release 
 date. I have had no problems: not a single crash, freeze, or hiccup. I was able to play smoothly 
 at 1024x768 resolution with most settings on high (I have a P4 3.0ghz, 1 GB of RAM, Geforce 6600GT 
 video card) . The game is well polished. The manual is decent, and the first mission is a tutorial 
 that will familiarize you with the gameplay.
  
  Yes, this is indeed the best Hitman game yet (though Hitman 2 is still a sentimental favorite of 
 mine) . The game has a cliff-hanger ending, so I assume there will be a sequel. At least I hope 
 so. If you like the Hitman games or stealth games in general, I highly recommend this one.
  
  Overall Rating: 4.5 stars
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  First, to be honest, I admit I haven't played a Hitman game before, and I was pleasantly surprised 
 about the good AI and nice looks. The choice of weapons seem a bit limited for some, perhaps, but 
 if you want the highest score you only need the Silverballer, just in case. the rest can be left 
 at home.
  
  But you don't have to sneak and disguise and stuff like that, of course. You can complete the missions 
 in pretty much anyway you like to. This freedom is good, and leaves room to develop your own style 
 throughout the game.
  
  The AI in the game is better than in the average shooter, and I don't mean enemies hiding behind 
 objects and stuff, they already know how to do that 
  since Half- Life. These NPC's can suspect you if you're acting strange, and start to fire if they 
 see you pull out a weapon, or if they see you climbing buildings or strange objects, dragging around 
 bodies, disguising yourself, and so forth.
  
  Compliments for the hand-to-hand combat system, which allows you (agent 47) to disarm the opponent 
 when they point all sorts of weaponry at you, and turn around the roles.
  
  New to the game is the fiberwire. This is the second most fun weapon in the entire game. Strangling 
 your victim is... satisfying, to be honest, But the first place goes to the causing of accidents, 
 in which I had great fun.
  Example: Your target is standing by the balcony, what do you do? You can either shoot your victim 
 in the back of the head with a weapon of choice, throw the kitchen-knife you just got from the 
 kitchen in the back of his head, strangle him, or push your victim off to make it look like he 
 fell..
  
  The physics are worked out great too, but I'm not going to say much about that, since most games 
 have good physics thanks to either Havok or Ageia.. so that would make my review only more boring.
 
  
  Overall, the latest Hitman is a great game, with good AI and even better weapons, and a good amount 
 of replay-value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut172
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is very different of what i use to play and this is what i like. You are not playing 
 the superhero who save the world, but the cold mad man who kill for money and maybe more... but 
 the targets are mad too so there is no problem. 
  
  This game is just fun and fun as you can do as you want to reach your goal and this is my kind 
 of game. Graphics are nice, sound is great and game play is awesome and you can replay the missions 
 again and again with a different approach every time.
  
  But i've loved they put some more missions in the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_falcon90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  Well,, The agent 47 is back, And I'am telling you, HE IS BACK with a very, very great game which 
 you can spend the hole day just playing it, and I mean it, so let's take a look at the game,,
 
  
  -Graphics: this game come with a very great graphics, infact for some people -like me- it's enough 
 sometimes to just sit back and relax while watching the best graphics ever, including the great 
 natural scenes, or the outstanding graphic design which you can notice during the various levels 
 of the game.
  
  -Gameplay: It's enough for anyone to discover the beauty of this game by watching someone playing 
 it, and thats when you'll realise how much the game has intelligence,,
  during the game, you'll face many missions that you hardly know about, so you have to do ANYTHING 
 possible to complete it, I mean there is so many ways for doing anything in this game, even to 
 shoot a guard in the head in front of everyone!!
  The only thing you won't like about the game is the weapons (the shooting ones) ,, cause they are 
 absolutely useless if you wanted to play the game as its supposed, (stealth) ,, but for the other 
 weapons, they are really nice and very useful if you wanted to kill very enemies in good ways,,
 
  The shooting in the game is very great, I mean its better than the first 3 episodes of the game: 
 the fireshots are fast, and the guns aiming is nice.
  If you play the game at the hardest difficulty, you'll face a very intelligent enemies how will 
 be very hard to deal with, and you'll have to be extremely careful while playing against them, 
 so if you had finished the game already, try playing it on this difficulty and you'll see the difference.
 
  
  -Sound: the sounds of the game is absolutely magnificent,,
  The music is really great,,, when you're in a danger or when you are doing a mission, you will 
 face a great peace of music thats suitable for the scene,, 
  The voices in the world of the game is incredibly fabulous.
  
  -Value: It worths spending the 
 hole day just playing it, and it surely worths your money,,
  before buying any game such as Splinter Cell, go for this game and you'll see the difference, I 
 mean THE DIFFERANCE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_evil_Nemesi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Although the first Hitman game was considered a flop (See Gamespot's review of it) , the series 
 kept on giving by the release of Hitman : Silent Assassin.
  
  Now, IO interactive and Eidos have pushed the envelope a little more, with the release of Hitman 
 : Blood Money.
  Blood Money kept with the series' original character, Agent 47, which is now better rendered thanks 
 to a new engine, featuring nice blurring and blooming capabilities.
  
  The sound is also well done, the soundtrack, again done by Jasper Kyd, is very good. The voice 
 acting is also pretty well done, the same person who did Diana and 47 from previous game have also 
 returned. Most of the time, the actors in the level are gonna say things depending on your actions. 
 As an example, when sprinting besides a jogger in the suburbs level, he's going to say something 
 like: "Nice pace buddy!".
  
  The game play, while mostly the same as previous games, is still very good and intuitive. Some 
 minor changes as to the button functionality (As an example, space is for picking things, E is 
 for actions and G is for tossing things) made no difference in the gameplay, even for an adept 
 Hitman player.
  
  The story starts pretty slowly, as the first few missions have little to do with the story. Some 
 nice between missions sequence are present to drive the story forward a little after almost all 
 missions. The ending is surprising, for the least..
  
  A nice addition is the newspaper report you get after each mission giving key information as how 
 the hit went in a news way. This may seem like a clever thing at first, but as you progress you'll 
 notice that most of the time it will be the same thing again and again.
  
  Even after passed through a mission, you'll always want to come back and try to have a better rating 
 at a higher difficulty level.
  Hitman : Blood Money is a great game that has a nice re-playability for a single player game. Consider 
 buying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 21, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  While maintaining the previous ways to kill your targets, hitman blood money adds even more. Push 
 people down stairs, out of balconies etc and make it look like accidents. Place bombs in gifts, 
 books, suit cases and let other people deliver your deadly blow (or you can just throw it somewhere 
 and detonate it later) . Every mission is worth playing more than once. The requirements are high 
 but you can tone them to suit your machine by compromising video quality. It gets a little slow 
 when a lot of the characters lay in a single place (20 or so) but is very worth it just for the 
 cheer gore of it. The game feels short just like any other good game. Bring the next one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendead
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game.... this game is just amazing. I remember those old days, when I was playing Hitman: Codename 
 47. I played every mission 10x. I don't know why thought. Then Hitman 2 came, which amazed me more, 
 because of the graphics. Then.. finally... Hitman: Contracts disappointed me. That was the same game 
 as Hitman 2. Only some added moves and weapons, but just the same game. And then.... finally.... HITMAN: 
 BLOOD MONEY!!!
  As I said.... This game is amazing. When I got it, I was so happy, that I just install Hitman 4 
 as fast as possible. After seeing the loading screen, I was so excited. Then I was playing it... just 
 amazing.
  
  The graphics are AWESOME, the gameplay is a bit hard for me, I don't know why, but anyway... The 
 sound is great too. When you talk with someone, it's like in older games (camera behind your shoulder) 
 It would be cooler, if the camera would fly around. But as I said... This game is fantastic. If 
 you are fan of Hitman Series, you will definitely love this game. But If you're not.... you will 
 like it too. :) I highly recommend this game. It has good gameplay, fantastic graphics, great sound, nice 
 weapons... everything is great. This game deserves a reward.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalXIII
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  In Hitman Blood Money you are agent 47 and you are out to kill! So basicly the setup is like this, 
 you go on a mission and have a few objectives to complete, like retreving information and performing 
 a hit on someone. It may sound simple but it isnt, there are many obsticles in the way, and many 
 ways to get around them. Such as taking many disguises, like a security guard which can give you 
 access to restricted areas. There is also a new system which is called "Accidents". So basicly 
 if you push someone over a ledge and they apperently slipped and died then its an accident. Or 
 if a hot tubs glass bottom gave out and the target fell from 70 feet and died it would be an accident. 
 So this sweet system lets you mess around in each level. Also people dont see through your disguise 
 as easily as they did before. Its harder to get caught. Also at the end of each level there is 
 a newspaper article saying how good you did in the paper, saying the shots fired, how many witnesses 
 there were, they may try and identify you with a picture of you.
  Now there is this new cash system where you get money for each time you finished a level, they 
 rate you on how well you did, taking cash away for leaving your suit there or leavinga custom weapon 
 behind. You can also use the money to hush people up if you did bad on that level, witnesses saw 
 you and lived, or you left evidence behind. When you are done with that you can customize you weapons! 
 With loads of stuff, now only get to customize the weapons that are supposed to be customized, 
 like the shotgun and M16 also your silverballers, cant foreget the sniper rifle. This comes in 
 handy since silenced weapons allows no sound which means no one can hear it.
  So this game is trully amazing! Lots of replay value since each level can be approched differently. 
 I highly suggest you get this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the fourth installment in the Hitman series and a good one at that. Agent 
 47 is back in the states for some fun missions that let you achieve objectives in many different, 
 stylish ways. An example of these ways is in the Rehab mission you are able to dress up as the 
 doctor and issue syringes with deadly poison to kill your targets who are patients. Another is 
 if you are seen on TV you lose $ for the mission but if you steal the video tape from the guard 
 quarters you can eliminate you ever being spotted on TV. While there are many ways to kill enemies 
 in H: BM there still is a sense of lack in interactable enviroments at times. The graphics are sleek 
 and new along with the cool music that feels like a good assassin theme. Fast loading times are 
 also good but they are plentiful because of the difficult gameplay in H: BM. You can also do many 
 things while not on a mission such as buy intel, upgrade weapons for future missions, and bride 
 people if your notoreity is high. The A. I. is fairly smart by hiding bodies from public if they 
 find a dead person and on the most part they look different so its not another game where you see 
 common NPC models. The missions can last a long time which is good and depends on the way you do 
 the mission. You can also go into First Person View if you wish but 3rd person is more of a classic 
 view in the Hitman series. A downside of H: BM is sometimes NPC characters have weird and obviou 
 movement glitches but other than that everything is fine. Hitman: Blood Money is a great replayable 
 game that lasts long even if gameplay can be frustrating at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This hitman game is by far the best. First of all, the graphics really improved. When you take 
 a look at the graphics you will think wow, awesome. Not to mention blood money still has its original 
 gameplay. I mean it still has the stealth and brutal killler mixed. I mean that you can be stealth 
 in the game or you can just be a brutal killer and kill everyone. Hitman blood money has a great 
 storyline, it will keep you playing because hitman blood money is damn fun. Although there are 
 new features in the hitman. Like you can sneak behind a person and use them as a human shield, 
 I love that. I'm not goin to explain the other new features because that will spoil the game. Anyways 
 the only same problem the hitman games still have are the A. I. Although this A. I has improved from 
 its predessor. But still you will notice that the people in the game don't act very realistic. 
 But hey, fans won't be disappointed I guranteed. Even if your not a fan of the hitman games, it 
 will still be fun. I recommend this game to any one because its just fun and sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iciris
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  The only game that wasn't better then the last was contracts, which was just a remake of all the 
 old misssions. This one accualy has all new levels, and like the the second one you have so many 
 ways to do each of the levels.
  
  The diffrent weapons, ways of killing people, and the new disarm move are great. The gameplay is 
 easy to get used to on the PC, the console is a way harder system to play on, this game is deffinatly 
 better on PC.
  
  The graphics are stunning, with the new engine they are able to have huge levels with sniping, 
 and tons of players on the screen at times.
  
  Sound is not dissapointing, just like most of the games that are coming out now.
  
  It was 
 deffinatly worth the 39.99 that I paid at EB.
  
  If you liked the first two then you have to play this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legice
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a game that makes you think, a game that makes you wait, a game that makes 
 you say "Why am I so hungry"? (I know I did.)
  
  This game takes you to the edge by making you think"Do I have time to go silent ,or should I make 
 a blood bath in the way) . Here ,there are many ways to complete the mission, like poisoning a drink, putting 
 mines in the way, or the very original head shot scene! In this game you could have a rank of silent 
 killer, professional or the murder master (nice right) and it all depends on your skill of playing 
 the game. The boring part is ,if you complete the level the most silent way you dont get any new 
 weapons like the last 2 series.
  
  You can walk in an elegant suit, or look like a doctor, bird, clown,... These costumes make the game 
 easier, more fun and with every other costume, you can go into different places.
  
  Now the fun part-WEAPONS
  Like in the first hitman Codename 47, you could buy guns with your money, well 
 here you dont buy guns, but upgrades for them.
  
  Now money. We all know then it is all about money ,and in this case it really is. The les people 
 see you ,the les inocent people you kill, and the les times you are spotted, the more money you get. You 
 can spend the money on guns and info. from ICA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the previous Hitman games I believe you'll definetly enjoy the newest addition Blood 
 Money. Game play feels like the originals, Good story line, still staying true to the game And 
 great looking graphics. Theres many ways to play each mission which means good replay value. When 
 you complete missions you receive money that you can spend on bribery if your popularity gets to 
 high, Buy weapon upgrades for every weapon and Inventory upgrades and new additions. There was 
 a huge problem tho when the game was first released with its incompatibility with certain video 
 cards such as mine x800 pro, But the games latest patch has fixed all of my problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conor_220
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  WOW! Well that is all you can say when you pllay this game. The new hitman is a game thats going 
 to be accesible to a new audience and for us veterans of the series. This is a game that I could 
 not be stuffed to go through naming all the great things about it, its just bloody good, go buy 
 it and the PC version comes in a top notch packaging, so none of the shoody stuff you see poking 
 out of vivendi's arse. Well listen the game is a smooth running game so it will runs well on low 
 end PCs and dousn't look that bad but quite nice, if you got a high end PC then you are in for 
 a treat, especially for the level where you are at a mardi gras parade and there are thousands 
 of people in the streets absolutely astonishing. Notoriety system is great, all the new ways to 
 eliminate targets is great since you can make them all look like accidents. This is a must buy 
 game for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin808
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The graaphics arent the best in this new hitman game but is is still great. you take the roll once 
 again of agent 47. It gives you a huge array of diiferent weapons and add ons to weapons. The combonations 
 are endless. The funnest part of this game is finding the perfect way to execute the mission. All 
 though it sometimes is also the hardest part. It is still great fun. Whoever likes games that require 
 patience, have a good amount of shooting and violence, and have some or lots of stealth. This is 
 your game.
  If you read these whole things you should get a life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffreycheng27
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Looks like the boys from Eidos really did their homework this time, there are quite a lot of improvement. 
 Such as more realistic AI, weapon mod, and the results from each mission will affect the gameplay 
 as well. however the thing I like most is this game makes the players to think and calculate before 
 they act, and that means this game teaches the player to use their head instead of th trigger finger.
 
  
  As in every mission, we need to observe everything before starting to hit the target. Such as the 
 environment, the security's patrol route, or any CCTV near by. If you play it cool, clean and quiet. 
 Maybe you can kill the target without getting close and personal.
  
  Finally, I just say I'm not going to spoil too much fun, the rest is for you to discover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2FacedJanus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  The Hitman series have all been pretty straightforward in what they're about. You're a hitman, 
 think of a way to kill your target. The beauty of the series lies in the fact that you truly can 
 explore multiple ways to kill your target. You could go on a rampage leaving a sea of dead bodies 
 in your wake. Or you could be silent, change an outfit, penetrate the facility where your target 
 is, and only take him out. And of course many ways in between. 
  
  In Blood Money the amount of ways to kill your target has expanded even more, including with some 
 very original ways. However the more silent you are, the more money get paid. And there usually 
 is only one way to beat a level to obtain that highly valued "Silent Assassin" ranking. Yes, after 
 each level you're ranked which will be the basis of your reward. There will be some other factors 
 that can decrease your score, like leaving customized weapons around, not hiding bodies or leaving 
 your suit behind. Another new gameplay element is the notoriety rating. After each level, depending 
 how many times you're discovered you gain a bit of notoriety. This will allow npcs to spot you 
 sooner in later missions. It is fairly easy to counter this effect though through bribes or an 
 identity change.
  
  Another new addition to the series are weapon upgrades, so yes your money actually has uses. I 
 found myself to stick mostly to my silenced silverballers and sniper rifle, but than again I'm 
 always sneaky when a game allows me to. All weapons have their uses though and none really are 
 redundant, well maybe the shotgun. There are various ways to upgrade your weapons and some upgrades 
 will make others impossible, like having silencer type 2 equipped will disable silencer type 1. 
 Most of the upgrades are very useful though and this feature is very well implemented. 
  
  The controls in hitman (especially for pc) have been enhanced and while maybe a bit confusing in 
 the beginning it really is quite good. Instead of relying on one button to do all your actions, 
 you now have 3 at your disposal which allows for a much more fluid control. The best part about 
 it it's now it's easy to sequence actions. For example: you kill a target, drag his body, open 
 a chest, drop the body in it and close the chest. In previous Hitman games I guarantee you it would've 
 taken a lot longer to do that than in Blood Money. And time is quite often of the essence. The 
 only problem with the controls are getting through open windows. It's somehow quite hard to jump 
 through them which can be kinda annoying if you want to get away rather quickly.
  
  The graphics in hitman are very good, on the pc and 360 a bit less so due to some very low-res 
 textures you might bump in (Like hedges) . Other than that the character models and the outfits 
 they're wearing are very detailed. The environments in which you do your missions all have their 
 distinctive look and feel which really sets them apart. 
  
  The sound in hitman is probably the best feature of all. The game hosts some really good voice-acting. 
 The weapons sounds are really crisp and clean and the ambient sounds are done really well. You'll 
 hear birds and parrots in the jungle, opera music in the opera house and so on.
  
  As for the story it's awesome. If this is your first time playing this game you might not really 
 get it but you'll find the plot twist at the end undeniably awesome.
  
  Overall this is a great game and a recommended buy if you like killing things with a twist. The 
 only truly negative comment I have on the game is it's length which is fairly short. That and once 
 you have the "Silent Assassin" ranking on a mission there's no real incentive to replay it. Other 
 than that I had a great time playing this game and I'll probably play it again in a few months. 
 This is the best game in the series by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kneller1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Over all, the game is pretty good. It has loads of new concepts that are new and enjoyable. The 
 missions are varied and fun to play through. The custom weapons are fun to use and are upgradable. 
 The upgrade system works in tiers and are bought by the money you earn. Some of the misions give 
 you extra surprises, what help against the repetitiveness of the game. There are only so many ways 
 you can kill a target without alerting the guards, so as I said you end up doing the same things. 
 But with that in mind, it is still a great game and really fun to play through. I would recomend 
 it to all Hitman fans, and you should play it even if your not. 
  
  Overall I would give it 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydsoftware
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  It gives you more options now for hiding bodies and such, some different weapons but to me it is 
 a follow up of the awful hitman contracts game face lift. I like the fact you can hide in closets, 
 which is nice, but guess we have to wait til the next version to be able to shoot from inside. 
 One of the things I hate is the item selection menu, I wish they would bring back the hitman 2 
 version. The death sequence is stupid, everything slows down, just as annoying as the splinter 
 cell mission failed screen, umm I get the point comes to mind. I played the game to the end, and 
 just felt let down with this one. I might reinstall it in the future for amusement but I think 
 my hard drive like 4 gb of space filled with some other games. The only hitman on my hard drive 
 now is hitman 2, and I guess blood money is going to collect dust on my shelf with contracts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  After playing the first three Hitman's, I could barely wait to get my hands on this one...
  
  The new graphics engine caught my eyes at first sight and I got excited that this will be the 
 best experience to date and that Agent 47 will give me at least a weeks game time. I made my way 
 through the interesting first mission, or the training mission as they call it. I played it on 
 Normal difficulty to first get a feeling for the game before I take on the Pro missions. I was 
 a tag disappointed in the fact that it took me all but 20 hours to get through all of the missions.
 
  
  In general this is another great Hitman game, I really like the fact that you can upgrade the weapons 
 as you make your way through the missions. Also the briefings gives a lot more information so there 
 is no reason why newcomers should'nt enjoy a great first run. Believe me, if you are a Splinter 
 Cell fan as well, there is no reason to use stealth in this game, you just take your M4 and shoot 
 your way into and out of each mission. The M4 of course turns out to be a very destructive weapon 
 in the end as soon as you start upgrading it to level 3 and 4. Also agent 47's trademark, the ballers, 
 get a whole new look and is very effective when your M4 runs out of bullets.
  
  Then there is the ending, and I really hope that there is a catch somewhere, because I can not 
 for one moment believe that this is the end of the Hitman series. This somehow has to continue 
 somewhere. Is 47 really dead? Well, I can't wait to find out...
  
  Well, I'm gonna leave it there for now. But as soon as I get through the Pro level, I will update 
 this review for those who want to know what the PRO level feels like. Cheers for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sureman81
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  I was rather disappointed because my expectations were i think much bigger. Ok visual looks nice 
 runs very stable on 6600 (changing drivers on newest helped get rid of fooked textures) , on 7900GT 
 i noticed some areas where fps drops under comfortable level, sound is of course top level but 
 i wished myself to hear it more. Missions and gameplay was something that i wanted to be better 
 developed more. Game controls seems to get bored after some missions... and missions yeah speaking 
 of them i wish there was more levels. I next hitman i would like to see some new cool moves like 
 we have in other games 4ex splinter cell, better level design. Overall game is one of the best 
 we've seen shipped for pc lately. Other games don't even try to get close to level hitman represents. 
 Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxas7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  I don't really know how to start this review as I am severely dissapointed in IO, but also very 
 impressed with this game. When I first went to my local Gamestop to buy Hitman: Blood Money, I 
 picked up the box which gave off an aura of "cool" and began to examine it. On the back of the 
 box where the minimum system requirements were displayed it read:
  GRAPHICS: Direct3D 9 compliant cards supporting pixel shader 2.0 (nVidia GeForce FX or ATi Radeon 
 9500)
  This is where the dissapointment comes in. The game does not actually work on certain GeForce FX 
 (and some ATi Radeon) cards that were promised to run the game. This shady business does not sit 
 well with me because of the huge amount of money that IO and Eidos drew in from a crowd of people 
 that they basically tricked into buying a game that would not work for them. Even now, the developers 
 have yet to deliver a patch to address this issue.
  This is all, however, aside from the point. If you were one of the gamers that purchased the game 
 and was fortunate enough to enjoy its content you will be very impressed. The game delivers an 
 immersive experience from beginning to end with plenty of memorable characters and environments 
 in which to kill them. =) 
  The gameplay is an improvement from the previous Hitman games, but it is still riddled with glitches 
 and minor problems that at times can become quite frustrating. Additions to the game include the 
 ability to push people over ledges, etc... to feign the appearance of an accident and it also gives 
 you the ability to hide people within trash bins, freezers, and crates to avoid the unwanted detection 
 of their corpses. I had a little bit of a problem with the AI. Sometimes it seems as if they have 
 eyes in the back of their heads and sometimes even psychic powers. On the other hand, sometimes 
 they seem like they might be a few tools short of a toolbox (etc...) like when you stand about 
 a foot next to them and throw a coin at the wall just behind their head and they actually turn 
 around!
  Graphics are a tricky area to tread into. Some of the lower end cards that were said to have been 
 able to run the game can only do so with some makeshift player fixes and thus the graphics look 
 absolutely horrible. I, myself, am playing the game on a GeForce 7800 GS OC and am able to enjoy 
 the full effect of what the game has to offer. Some of the environments are so beautiful and detail 
 oriented that one may want to spend an hour or so just walking around and seeing what the levels 
 have to offer. Just one of the memorable scenes that I am able to recall was the New Orleans level 
 entitled "The Murder of Crows". This level portrayed a crowded New Orleans street during Mardi 
 Gras. Hundreds (Maybe thousands?) of people walked the streets wearing many different outfits and 
 doing many different things. This is just one of the experiences you will go through that should 
 make this game one of your most remembered. The game delivers some very clean images and you will 
 be very appreciative of everything it has to offer when you get up close and take the time to explore.
 
  The sound in the game was quite nice. It includes a score by Jesper Kyd that seemed to carry the 
 game along very well. At certain points, however, the music would change drastically for no reason 
 and I would be taken out of the moment to wonder if there was a reason why. Some of the background 
 noises and effects were very well done and the gunfire noises sound great and very lifelike. When 
 that base thumps after you just fired one of your silenced pistols it definetly has the potential 
 to send chills down your spine. Also, some of the songs that I assume were written by proffesional 
 artists were very fitting for the scenes they were included in and one of them, I must admit, was 
 sort of catchy.
  When you think of the potential that Hitman: Blood Money had it can be kind of a saddening to see 
 how it turned out. I think that this game could have rivaled the Splinter Cell games if the developers 
 had done just a little bit more and put a little more time into resolving some of the minor AI, 
 and performance problems. The shadow vs. plain sight aspect of the game seemed to have been lacking 
 entirely. Some people might also find that the game still is missing some realism that I think 
 should be included in this game. Sure, it's just a game, but if I want extreme fiction I'll go 
 out and buy a very fictional game. The beauty of this game is that you can really put yourself 
 into 47's place and entice a little bit of the assasin you may have in you. I guess you'll just 
 have to play it for yourself to decide if it's worth the forty bucks, but I'm guessing it's worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Since 2002 I have been playing the Hitman series and the series never gets boring. EAch hit is 
 unique and filled with fun (and often extremely frutrating) puzzles.
  
  Well let's get on with this game.
  
  My first impression was "WOW". The scenery is so well 
 done and the first contract is also a training mission. Mr. 47's controls have not at all changed. 
 This can be a good or bad thing depending on how you likes tha last 3. This is also 47s first trip 
 to the USA. Like all Hitman games, this one is based on rea cities and landmarks and the blend 
 of colors is really nice.
  
  I found nothing new about the game play however, some new moves and ways to kill your oponent have 
 been added. You can hide in shaddows now and sneak up behind the enemy and kill them in the shaddow. 
 Again, stealth is key but the missions offer mutiple ways to finish a level, wether it be run n 
 gun or silent assasin. 
  
  The music Mr. Jesper Kyd provdes (Who I am a big fan of) again is nothing more than perfection 
 in its finest forms. The music totally fits the mood of the levels and isjust perfect.
  
  All in alla grat new addition to my co 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maubecerra
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game rocks!! Hitman: Blood Money is the best game in its genre. Awesome graphics and game 
 play.
  This last version of the Hitman series is by far the best. The story of the game is involving, you 
 are legendary agent 47 and get contracted to eliminate difficult targets in very diverse locations 
 and circumstances frustrating the plans of an enemy agency to which you are the ultimate target. 
 The game is highly addictive and it has realistic graphics and good sound. 
  The game is not easy because to pass each level you can be wondering around for hours before you 
 solve the puzzle and get a decent strategy to pass each level with a good ranking such as Silent 
 Assassin or Hitman.
  I would recommend this game to all actions and strategy enthusiasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpapa123173
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  This version of Hitman seems to be the best one out of the series to date for me. I have been playing 
 this game from day one. I love this new version, game play is excellent, very easy to get in to 
 the groove of the game, I love the fact that there is not a lot of keyboard controls to configure. 
 I hate games that have a million different controls that you have t use, and then you get the 50+ 
 keyboard functions in some games that are just useless. The graphics are very good. Edios has done 
 a great job of the Hitman Sequel Thanks much guys this title definitely rocks my PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the kind of game you keep playing non-stop until you reach the end. And 
 hitman achieve this by giving you levels that are all extremely different so you never get bored 
 at any time.
  Also, the story is pretty interesting and all the way until the end it kept me playing. And trust 
 me, the end is amazing.
  
  Gameplay: This game is just unique, you're an ice cold killa who gets contracts which gives you 
 more or less money based on how well you'd performed during your missions (noise, innocent victims, 
 witnesses... etc.) Then, you can use that money to buy better upgrades for your weapons (silencers, 
 scopes, lasers... etc) . The AI are just right, and of course tougher difficulty means brighter AI.
 
  
  Graphics:
  They are great, the lighting effects are awesome. And by giving you very different levels in different 
 locations, its just good for the eyes. For example, one level can be in a casino, so there's a 
 lot of bright lights, red floors, white walls.. etc, then, the next thing you know, you're in a 
 private place in the bayous during the night. So there's water, dense vegetation.. etc. Its not 
 just the same corridors, with the same colors, with the same lightning over and over (ex: FEAR) .
 
  
  Sound:
  The music is perfect... it really put the atmosphere into the game. Even the menu music give a sense 
 of perfect assassin to the game. The voice acting is great. The sound effects are good for some 
 weapons (all the silenced ones) but some are not that good (some weapons sounds weak)
  
  Value:
  This is where the game gains all its points. The replay value is almost infinite. There's 
 so many ways you can achieve your objectives, you can play and replay missions many many times 
 and never do it the same way twice. The upgradable weapons are also a big part of the replay value. 
 For example, you can do a mission without any weapon and get a silent assassin score, or get a 
 maxed upgraded M4 and make a killing spree to get the terrorist score, then replay the mission 
 with a sniper to get an other mention, or a shotgun... etc And of course, each weapon you choose 
 has an impact on how you'll do the the mission.
  
  The only con is maybe the controls. Sometime they just dont seem to work fine. For example: i'll 
 try to push someone over a fence and doesnt work as well as it should be, once every couple attempts 
 47 just push on the side, or in the air or the person dont flip over the fence and collapse at 
 your feet.... etc. But its not bad to the point of affecting the gameplay.
  
  Finally, its an awesome game that you should have in your collection and DO NOT judge the game 
 based on the demo since its the first level of the game (the WORST) and its the tutorial Played 
 on:
  Intel P4 3,4 ghz
  2 gig RAM
  ati X850 XT PE
  Sound Blaster Audigy 2 ZS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  its the most perfect game i ever played this new hitman had a good effects 
  and shader model 2 and good graphics it worthe of playing the good thing ig the sound the music 
 is vary perfect and the soundtrack of the game is vary good the game is nice the gameplay is clear 
 the missions is very good 
  like you must go i kill someone in the party or you must takedown 
  an vip man or cia agent the 
 game is like the real and the good thing is the weapons its cool and perfect and you can upgrade 
 them with your money 
  its the best game from eidos i ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Blood money is the fourth in the highly popular Hitman series and it doesn't disappoint.
  
  The game unfolds as flashbacks and as the game progresses, you learn more about the characters 
 and story. Despite never playing any of the previous games in the series, the story was addictive 
 and throughout i just wanted more and more. 
  
  The mission locations are diverse and large. You could be eliminating a drunken agent in a Californian 
 mental hospital or 'taking out' the vice-president of the United States.
  
  The games offers impressive graphics and a great soundtrack. The ambient noises and gun sounds 
 are the best i've ever heard and the entertaining video sequences really compel you to play more.
 
  
  Replay value is added as with each mission your ranking effects how much money you earn, in turn 
 restricting what upgrades to weapons or equipment you can purchase. Ranks are also available to 
 upload online so you can see how well you did compared with others.
  
  Hitman: Blood money is the fourth and best in the series, and despite occasional frame rate issues 
 and crashes, theres little thats disappointing.
  My main concern is losing your save files for a level if you leave the game, this can get quite 
 annoying, but i enjoyed replaying the levels anyway. In addition, the game has no multiplayer, 
 which is disappointing but unsurprising.
  
  9.3/10
  A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbuhler
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the last mission on normal difficulty and I'm amazed. This is the first Hitman 
 game I've played but it won't be the last. Hitman Blood Money is the perfect combination of stealth, 
 story and guns-blazing carnage.
  
  The best feature of this game is the fact it's completely open-ended. There is no set way to accomplish 
 you objectives on a given mssion. You can customize your weapons loadout to your play style and 
 play it stealthy, snipe from a distance or kick in the front door and start pumping.
  
  There are a good number of missions, all of which are satisfyingly long the first time through. 
 The story is only developed by short cut-scenes between levels, but the overall plot is interesting 
 enough and the ending, as my headline suggests, is incredible.
  
  Go get this game now and thank me later! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluzmanps2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  The best thinking mans shooter ever - buy it U like it. great gameplay and graphics - just plain 
 fun. 
  
  Graphics: Great! I run it on the highest settings and I thought it would be like Contracts but 
 it turned out it are like Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory. The shadows on the models and the clothes 
 they are wearing looks so amazing. Its some of the best graphics I have ever played with. Though 
 they could have used the pixel shader effects a little more. I never think games can get enough 
 pixel shadering (Just look at Splinter Cell) .
  
  Sound: The music is as always great. Silent Assassin has too much classic and Contracts had too 
 much electronic. This one has a good mix of both. 4/5 of the music is classic and that fits very 
 well in. Almost only when your cover is blown you get to hear the electronic and thats how I always 
 wanted it to be. I got surprised two times with the music. First was when I heard that they actually 
 used that cool song apocalypse from the first trailer, in the game (They e-mailed to people that 
 it was specially made for that trailer) . And second was when I heard the one of the same themes 
 thats in Contracts. I love returning themes as long as it dosn't end up with some James Bond or 
 Mission Impossible soundtrack. The voice acting is OK the most of the time. David Bateson (47) 
 and the one playing Diana is really good. The gangsta **** in the first level are voices are stupid 
 but thats also the only bad bad voice acting in the game. The sound it self is as it should be 
 though I'm missing some high crashes when you push someone into a wall. But the sound of the pistols 
 and shotguns mixed up with they're recoil and all the blood just makes you piss your pans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: msilver67
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I have purchased every title to this game since the first and have never finished the games as 
 I always play on the hardest settings and wont ever ever buy the help guides (until this time) 
 as I was tired of never seeing the end... yea I know cry cry. But a man has to have his pride tell 
 me theres no one who has ever bought the help guide the same day. hey at least i waited a week 
 of torment before i did? Tell me what you think. Also some of your GS weirdos are taking this website 
 at little to far as i just seen someone actually display that he was the commander of startrek 
 clan... comeone grow up already.
  
  peace to all our brothers and sisters in IRAQ an Afar..... GOD BLESS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  When I had launch this game for the first time I thought: It is the other game at all!
  Now I understand that I was right. The game has so many differents from the Contracts, SA or first 
 Hitman. 
  Ofcourse the first point is the new engine! Such a beautifull picture on you display is the first 
 10 point mark for the IO and Eidos. The hole graohics is much more beautifull then ever. Ofcourse 
 it is not an Oblivion but still much better then some other games!
  Second good point is the gameplay. The new control and tech upgrade system is very comfortable 
 and easy in use. Especialy the three main keys: spacebar, E and G!
  Sound is also good. I really like the soundtrack in House of Cards and Curtains Down. Such a beautifull 
 music!! Clearly 9!
  In total I think that everyone who is thinking of himself as a real gamer must play this game! 
 If you like stealth as I am you can play it, if you want to shot your way through- go on, press 
 F1 - first look view (yes yes! now you can play Hitman from first view!) !
  Just one thing left to say: Play this game and you won't be dissappointed.
  While I am waiting 
 for the Hitman 5! It will be for sure just beat the game and you wil know!
  Tahir "Yazon" Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeatMith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  I somewhat feel this time around in the hitman series it may be a little "dumbed down" , or fail 
 that sticks a bit too close to the formula of previous installments in the series , as a big fan 
 of the series it is a bit hard for me too say which has more truth . Much like the other installments 
 I feel the game is a bit too short . That's about all of the negatives , from my point of view 
 
  It really is a great game for anyone who feels a little unfullfilled by storming through levels 
 of FPS blasting away with little to no thought , this on the the other hand provides great entertainment 
 whilst provoking thought , perhaps not the most healthy thoughts , but thought none the less .
 
  Graphics on a high end machine are nothing short of brilliant , gameplay is extrodinarily enganging 
 (prepare for a late night or two) , another great installment in the series , only next time around 
 I hope it is a little longer and harder . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabidmonkeyman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  Alright, so the newest Hitman is out, but, is it any good? in short, yes.
  
  There are some improvements to this game and not only graphical wise. One of the most notable changes 
 they made is that they threw out the old clunky choice system with the little window and choices 
 to make when there are some, now its context sensitive button presses. The E button is considered 
 the action button and the Space button applies to picking things up. While the G button is the 
 drop button, where you can either drop a dragging body or whatever you happen to be holding at 
 the time. Another change is that hes no longer in foreign countries, now all of Agent 47's targets 
 are in good ol' USA, with notable locations such as Louisianan during Marti Gra celebration. They 
 also add a neat newspaper headline about your mission when youre done with it. Its pretty neat 
 to read how they wrote about your performance, and its pretty cool to read the other things in 
 there, like a small preview of your next mission, a small funny quote from president bush, or whose 
 winning the current presidential election.
  
  Gameplay: 810
  The gameplay has definitely improved since Contracts, however its not perfect. the major problem 
 I have with the gameplay is the AI. As far as comparing to other AI in games its up there, but 
 sometimes it just leaves you going. "How did he know i was here?" or "how did he NOT see me?" Ive 
 experienced the AI see me dragging a body while he was turned around and so far away I could barely 
 see him, not only that, i was on a balcony so it would have easily covered the view of his body... 
 The new context sensitive interface makes things much easier then that drop down menu window in 
 Contracts. although some problems still arise when you have multiple bodies/weapons/items overlapping 
 each other and you need to place yourself in the exact right spot to pick up what you want, this 
 can take too much time do to when you are trying to dispose of a body before a guard comes around. 
 They also added the ability to upgrade the basic weapons you get in every mission, as well as standard 
 equipment. (Like a Kevlar vest, painkillers, etc) You purchase these upgrades with your Blood Money 
 that you get from completing the mission, you get more money the better you do, and you lose money 
 for things like damage control, and leaving your suit behind. They also added the notoriety system 
 for Normal difficulty and higher. This means that if you are either caught on video and dont retrieve 
 the video, or there are witnesses. The police/guards/FBI agents can also see you and start shooting 
 too, which will give you a lot of notoriety, but i usually restart if something like that happens. 
 At the end of the level you can spend some of your earned money to get rid of the notoriety (which 
 will make future levels harder because people will know what you look like) but its not necessary, 
 and honestly i never get more then 10 on a level and thats cheap to get rid of.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics in this game are much better then in contracts, but you can clearly 
 tell it was made for consoles in mind, seeing as how the textures arent too special and the lighting 
 effects are "ok" to say the least. Although it looks better than on the Xbox 360 if you have a 
 good enough card to run all the AA and AF at a high resolution. The character face models are much 
 better then Contracts but not nearly as good as something like GRAW.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  The music in this game is nothing special, in fact its mostly just whatever the party is playing. 
 The menu music and opening scene though, I think, is really good and usually I listen to it every 
 time i start the game. The sound effects are really good though, I dont think they were sampled 
 from real weapons so the quality of them is really good, all things considered. When you put a 
 silencer on your Silverballers and you get the dualies, the sound of them shooting just gives you 
 a tingly feeling up your spine and makes you want to shoot it again. Not to mention when you syringe 
 people, that injection sound just makes you want to hold your neck and be glad its not you. Other 
 than that there really isnt much sound effects, in fact sometimes I cant even tell if i have my 
 sound on, seems like they are missing a lot of sound effects.
  
  Value: 9/10
  For $40 bucks compared to the 360 price of $60 and the ps2 price of $50 why wouldnt you get it 
 for the PC? While theres no online capability it still seems like the control scheme is better 
 for the pc as opposed to the game pad. And really since there is NO online capability its a good 
 thing it is priced for $40 instead of 50 or 60. The replay value is fairly high seeing as how theres 
 so many different ways to complete each mission, and i believe when you beat the game you can go 
 through all the previous missions with all the weapons you collected, so that adds to the fun factor 
 since maybe the second time around you might play it as a shooter instead of a stealth game. While 
 there are only a dozen or so missions, they will probably take you a while to complete, the complexity 
 in them is great, and not to mention the fact that you have to choose which path you want to follow.
 
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  No other game can come close to the feeling that getting a Silent Assassin ranking gives you. The 
 SA ranking is the prestige among all rankings and requires you to perform perfectly on the level 
 and not make a single slip up. Not to mention the sentimental value of the Fiber Wire. While it 
 may be better to just sedate somebody, its hard to pass up Fiber Wiring a guard to take his uniform.
 
  
  Overall: 8.7/10
  All in all, if youre a fan of the Hitman series then this is definitely the best one to pick up. 
 If youre a first timer to the series, then you will definitely enjoy the complexity of the levels 
 and different choices to make. Its also worth noting that this game can be very frustrating, but 
 its meant to be that way, because if it wasnt, it would be a fairly easy game. Besides, most 
 of the time that you screw up its because you know that you made the mistake, very rarely is it 
 some BS game mechanic issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lumivel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series has always been known for it's unique sandbox style gameplay, Blood Money has 
 taken that gameplay a gigantic step further, and really cranked out a wonderful game.
  
  This time around Agent 47 has quite a few new tricks up his sleeve along with some superbly rendered 
 environments to explore and make use of. I really appreciated the move to the United States, being 
 a States gamer I had a much stronger connection to the game as I had been to or seen many of the 
 locations featured in real life.
  
  Io Interactive has really done a great job, I can't believe I was reluctant about buying it at 
 first, but am extremely glad I bought the bullet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agronomo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  If you want a Silent Assassin, you Got ONE !!! The great Agent 47 is back, and when I say back, 
 he is really BACK !! The graphics are great, the sound is awesome and the game has a great end, 
 what else can you ask for? The plot of the game is really unusual and you can ask for an idea, 
 cause when you start the game, Agent 47 is dead, and all you want to ask for is a clue. After the 
 game develops, there is a gradual inmersion that agent 47 asks for you, and at the end, it feels 
 really great!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPCD
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Alot has been said about the latest incarnation of the Hitman franchise. But what hasn't been said 
 enough is how absolutely stunning the game looks. The A. I. is spotty and often a little frustrating, 
 but it's practically forgiveable considering the quality of the presentation and graphics. My PC 
 is by no means a high end system. 2.0 Ghz dual-core, 2 gigs of Ram, and a GeForce 256 mb GT OC, 
 but with everything cranked up graphically, the game looked and ran without a hiccup and had me 
 dropping my jaw quite frequently.
  I can honestly say for what it does as far as mood and immersion, this game blows everything I've 
 played to date. The diversity in the places you carry out the missions, to the characters you take 
 out, left me truly wishing there was even more. There alot of interesting ways to dispose of your 
 marks, and good old-fashioned run and gun never felt better. 
  Forgive the A. I. its little quirks (something that does need to be addressed next installment) 
 and you'll have a fun time with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathSquad75
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the fouth in a series of relatively good games. This new reiteration of 
 the game has the same concept: kill targets without being seen or kill everyone in your way to 
 the target. This time around though they have instilled a notoriety system, which affects your 
 game in the next mission. If you systematically kill off your targets by staging accidents or killing 
 them quietly and no one sees you, then it won't affect you. However, if you kill everyone and are 
 caught on tape or leave witnesses, then you will be given a notoriety rating and this will affect 
 how many people will notice you the next time you try and make a hit. There is also a new system 
 that allows you to use the money you have to buy upgrades for the custom weapons you are given. 
 Which is pretty much the only thing money is good for here, other than buying intel during the 
 missions. The game has a fairly decent story that is just a culmination of all the other games. 
 You'll notice some people that you've seen before if you've played the last three too. There is 
 a twist at the end too, but i dont want to spoil it for you. There is a small replay value as well, 
 as you can go about each mission in so many different ways. Blood Money allows you to run and gun 
 alot more than in the last however. Before, if you started killing tons of people the targets would 
 leave the area most of the time. Also all the guards would automatically know it was you even if 
 they werent anywhere near you. That has changed also. Overall, this is a nice sequel to the series 
 but you have to like the series in the first place. If that is you, then i would recommend you 
 get this. If you're new to the series, Blood Money would still be good to play, but you may be 
 lost on some of the deep plot points. Nonetheless, this one's worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gm_jyoo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Have you ever imagined yourself waltzing into an opera house with a sleek briefcase in hand? What 
 if that briefcase had a high caliber sniper rifle? You walk around; making sure no one pays any 
 special mind to you-particularly your face-as you find the perfect spot to camp. Your target sits 
 down in a booth and you load a golden cylinder of death into your silenced sniper rifle. You take 
 aim, you exhale, and you squeeze the trigger just as the fat lady hits a high note. You hear a 
 sharp, muffled whistle as your bullet shoots out the barrel of your rifle and bores itself through 
 your targets skull, leaving a bloody, gory mess. Then you pack up and leave the theatre with no 
 one the wiser.
  If the highly unlikely and disturbing scenario depicted above sounds anything like one of your 
 sick fantasies, then this game is just right for you. You play as the ever mysterious and utterly 
 bad-ass Agent 47 as he takes on various jobs to fill his checkbook. There are a total of thirteen 
 levels, but dont let the scant number of levels deter you from this solid sequel to the Hitman 
 series. What this game lacks in levels makes up for in diversity. From opera houses to southern 
 manors to the White House, you as Agent 47 will simply drool at the depth and beauty this game 
 has to offer. And for returning fans, are you in for a treat.
  Its the same old (new if youre just getting into this series) Hitman formula, with just a few 
 tweaks here and there that improve the gameplay. The controls mirror those of the previous games 
 in the series and they havent lost their touch. Controls respond just as well as before, but obvious 
 key bindings and interaction interface kinks just screams out made for console. But fret not, 
 for the controls are still solid and the first-person mode benefits greatly from the tried-and-true 
 mouse and keyboard combo. On that note, the controls are very simple to master and you can rebind 
 the keys at any time. So you dont have to fumble around in case you screw up.
  As far as gameplay goes, its not much different from the other Hitman games. This may be a good 
 thing or bad thing depending on whether or not you liked the previous games. Agent 47 has a few 
 new moves this time around, but theyre mostly logistical additions like throwing bodies over railings 
 and such. This time around, 47 has a few more gadgets and his custom weapons are upgradeable. But 
 the upgrades are only unlocked when you get good ratings for each mission. So, you can still 
 go in with an m16-esque rifle with a drum-magazine and unload hundreds of bullets into everything-or 
 everyone-that moves-or doesnt move. But this has consequences this time round in that the sloppier 
 you are, the more notoriety you gain, which means in the next level, the enemies will have an easier 
 time recognizing you. You can choose to pay to reduce your notoriety, which will help as you continue 
 on. There is also a new feature that randomly produces mock newspaper headlines and stories of 
 47s deadly escapades. But the novelty of this feature wears off rather quickly because you can 
 pick up the pattern quite easily. But the game is now geared towards making your assassinations 
 look like accidents, which subsequently gets you a better rating if performed correctly. This provides 
 a new challenge because you have to figure out just what to do and there are so many ways to kill 
 you target (s) . This the replay value is VERY high.
  Graphically, this game is pretty amazing, but a tad taxing on mid-range systems. Still, with a 
 2ghz processor, 1gb ram, and a geforce 6600 128mb pci-e, the game purrs like a kitten even on the 
 highest settings. The environments are lavishly detailed and the characters have great detail. 
 But there are some graphical quirks when it comes to the character textures; theres a great line 
 running down a lot of em. Other than that, this game is pretty much very glamorous eye-candy. 
 
  In terms of sound, the game is amazing, too. There were some bugs, but despite those, the sound 
 effects, the music, the ambient noises-they were all awesome. Especially when you fire loud guns 
 or when you fire suppressed weapons, the sound plays a major role in making you feel as if youre 
 really popping off rounds. It opts for a truly satisfying experience.
  All in all, the game is a solid sequel to the Hitman series with no real innovations to the good 
 ol formula that keeps bringing the bald-headed assassins fans back for more. And for new players, 
 hopefully back for upcoming sequels. This game was expertly crafted and is probably among the best 
 single-player experiences out there. So dont pass up the opportunity to check this game out.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lule_vets
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  Kao prvo dugo se cekalo na novi nastavak prvo sam pomislio kada sam video intro i dalji tok price 
 u igri da je ovo poslednji nastavak ali do kraja igre sam shvatio da nije i bilo mi je lakse.
 
  Odlicna simulacija placenoga ubice. Tok price je odlicean malo su promasili sa tezinama igre ali 
 dobro. Igra deluje prilicno realno i veoma sam zadovoljan. Grafika je na zavidnom nivou a sto je 
 najvaznije uopste ne zahteva puno tako da ce i oni sa malo skromnijim grafickim karatama kao sto 
 su 6600 GT moci da je igraju bez problema. Sve pohvale za tim Eidos iga je pun pogodak. Igra jednostavno 
 vuce ljubitelje simulaicija da je igraju pogotovo ako je tako dobro uradjena kao ova. Jedva ceka 
 sledeci nastavak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oitea
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Far-far better from the last Hitman: Contract. Amazing gameplay...
  The best game of 2006 at this time ... after The Elder Scroll IV: Oblivion... Sorry, but not just 
 quite enough.
  Alwas gona be a great game on my opinion, but not on the first spot.
  At least its better than Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, do you agree???
  But one thing, I play 
 this game with very slow machine, so I can't say very much about graphic.
  What I can say is, Hitman's gameplay alwas briliant... And Hitman series always on my recommended 
 game on my life... Hide the body on a box??? That's the thing I've never been seen on another game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyDrey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  To those out there that have just discovered the Hitman series and are looking at this game as 
 their starting point: You have chosen correctly. This game is both entertaining and at times, very 
 beautifully rendered. I found myself actually surprised by the graphical quality of this game. 
 As a gamer that has played the previous 4 games in the Hitman series, I can say beyond any doubt 
 that this is by far the best in the group. The ways to dispatch your ememies in this game are extremely 
 creative and at other points, very funny. Switching a prop gun for a real gun in the opera mission 
 was by far one of the funniest ways to kill your ememy in this game. The game does tend to progress 
 rather sharply in difficulty after the first 3 levels. I found myself immediately going to the 
 nearest game guide for stratagies on how to beat the spa level. The best part about this game though 
 is its replay value. For a game that is stricktly based in single player mode this game replays 
 in two very distinct ways. You can either run and gun everyone down in your way and (hopefully) 
 escape the mass of gaurds coming at you. Or you can just as equally get that satisfying kill by 
 silently sneaking up on your ememy and fiberwiring him, or poisening (its really your choice) . 
 All and all, go buy it, but if you go buy it, buy it for pc! Or if your happy enough to have it 
 for 360 do so, but PS2 lacks in the graphical quality of this game. It runs far smoother on PC 
 and 360 (as much as I hate Microsoft) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ciremi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  The most recent installation of the Hitman series, Hitman: Blood Money is a good follow-up to its 
 predecessors, but there seems to be something missing from the blend this time around and the game 
 cannot seem to decide what it wants to do or where it is goinga complete antithesis of the thoughts 
 of a professional hitman.
  
  The major problem with this game comes from its high-intensity graphics which, browsing internet 
 forums, cause problems for even the most beefed-up computers and graphic cards. The game looks 
 a lot clearer than the release before it, Hitman: Contracts, but even toning down the settings 
 still produces a very noticeable on-off lag, missing textures (which come back when the camera 
 is faced a certain way) , and excessive brightness on a series of machines. If the game contained 
 a graphic setting that would make it equivalent to Hitman: Contracts, no one would have been the 
 wiser.
  
  Lets talk plot. Hitman: Blood Moneys story is mostly told through the use of beautifully rendered 
 cutscenes. The premise of the game is that a rival agency to the ICA is trying to wipe out our 
 beloved 47 as well as the rest of the ICA agents. The game never really gives off the feeling that 
 there is a surrounding danger, unfortunately. Despite the fact that you hear about agents being 
 killed, you never actually witness, or attempt to rescue any of them, save one. Perhaps it might 
 have been a bold move to have you play as one of the other agents, or at least put you in the vicinity 
 of another agents execution, but that danger is really only noticed in the last two/three missions 
 of the game. Such dangers are not even apparent in the newspaper readings displayed at the end 
 of each mission, documenting your work. Otherwise, the game more or less feels like an extended 
 version of Hitman: Contracts with a series of missions that do not necessarily tie in to one another. 
 The main villain of this game is rarely shown, and although you hear about him you never really 
 see how he works, or the sort of trail that he leaves behind. The viral messages simply cannot 
 stand alone.
  
  The gameplay of Blood Money differs from the other three games. This time around, you can disarm 
 and push enemies, innocents, and targets. The pick up and action buttons are bound to completely 
 different keys and a game console-esque indicator in the upper left of your screen displays all 
 of the available actions for you. Unfortunately this sort of method feels like too much of a console 
 game, and does not fit for the PC. You can save in the game, but the savegames only exist as checkpoints. 
 Any crash to the desktop will result in you losing everything you worked on during that level. 
 47s new moves also include hiding bodies of unconscious or dead victims as well as hiding in closets, 
 toggling lights, distracting people by tossing coins, and climbing up gutter poles. However, climbing 
 up walls and poles would be more fun if they were not indicated by exclamation marks everywhere 
 they were (even in normal mode) theres just no Eureka I found it! feeling in that. Also, it 
 would have been cooler to have more interaction with your surroundings such as being able to sit 
 at a bar, play the piano, converse back to NPCs or utilize other sorts of objects. 
  
  It might also be worth noting that the game allows you many ways to take out your target, but likes 
 to intentionally place obstacles and NPCs in your way, giving you no choice but to perform unnecessary 
 actions sometimes. A prime example would have to be one mission where I dressed up as a casino 
 staff member. A casino staff NPC was standing behind closed doors not moving when I made my way 
 over to the target. I waited for the NPC to move, but it did not. Upon being searched, the casino 
 staff NPC immediately came out of the doors, and since there could not possibly be two staff members 
 in the same area my cover was blown. The NPC was specifically designed to exit the doors when I 
 was in the area, thereby not allowing me to perform my execution flawlessly. The lack of spontaneity 
 in Blood Money is what really continues to plague the Hitman series. Target path patterns are easily 
 predicted. Every Hitman game seems to suffer from this. Rather than have the targets randomly go 
 elsewhere and interact with objects the targets are railroaded to the same places, creating an 
 easy kill if you know where they are going next.
  
  Also, time does not seem to pass, with the exception of the Mardi gras mission. If your target 
 is not stuck on a track they will remain in the same spot, regardless of the time. For example, 
 during one mission a wedding ceremony is taking place. It is possible to rig the cake, but the 
 cake is never acknowledged or used. Placing the game within a real time limit is not a new thing 
 to this series, but the lack of passing time is yet another problem.
  
  Speaking of real-time, Blood Money introduces a new feature, the Picture-In-Picture camera, which 
 shows you important information about where your target is, as well as actions occurring around 
 you. Unfortunately, if you have a feeble ATI Radeon Mobility 9000 like me, the PIP camera tends 
 to automatically disable itself, leaving you with an icon that something is happening, but no visual, 
 and also no caption to tell you what is happening a good portion of the time.
  
  Graphically, the game is great looking, according to screenshots. However, the graphics look similar 
 to the graphics in Hitman: Contracts, with the notable exceptions of 47s model, and more detailed 
 environments. The character models look a lot better, but all the NPCs of a certain category look 
 the same. Also, the folding of sheets over you is a rarity in this game, and the bending of plants 
 around you as you walk past them still has yet to make a comeback in the series.
  
  The locations in this game are all different. You go from the quaint little suburbs to the cold 
 Colorado Mountains, to even the alligator-infested swamps of Mississippi. For some reason these 
 locales do not seem to have the feel of the Hitman games with the exception of the training level, 
 where you go through an abandoned amusement park to find your target. Comparing some of the levels 
 to the Meat Kings Party (a meat factory/club from Hitman: Contracts) you get less of a feeling 
 that the locations are less over-the-top, which is unfortunate because the more extreme the location 
 was the more memorable it was as well.
  
  Information in this game is provided via newspaper articles you read at the end of each mission 
 which document and summarize your hit. The articles are generally easy to predict and sometimes 
 the information can be way off, especially if you kill your target to make it look like an accident. 
 The great thing about the newspapers is the way that events are foreshadowed, although there nearly 
 are not enough. Information and foreshadowing also comes from radios and televisions scarcely placed 
 throughout all 12 or 13 missions.
  
  Jesper Kyds score never fails to please, and he has done it again producing a memorable and fitting 
 score for the games music sequences. The voices are all good, although sometimes characters change 
 their voices randomly, and the voices can get cut off or nonexistent occasionally.
  
  The first level (also the demo level) is really the only one that stands out, mostly because you 
 actually have a back-story for why you are carrying out the hit, as well as a plea and background 
 from your target, which really makes him harder to kill in my opinion. Such nuances are not present 
 in the other missions, but the Swing King mission provides you with a concept of how the missions 
 should have been.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money has 47 back, but he really isnt doing anything too special. In the end you 
 are left with one of the biggest twists that the Hitman series has ever seenbut the buildup until 
 that twist really does not provoke a jaw-dropping moment when it arrives. The game is worth playing 
 and there is certainly a good amount of replay for this game, but when the game constantly tries 
 to force you do crack a walnut with a hammer youll just want to stick with the simpler way of 
 doing things.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Up to hitman standarts. Nothing really new here. Just the good old fashion mixture of 
 steath and gunplay. The biggest improvement is that agent 47 now can perform melee attacks to stun 
 his victims. Second is the improvised weapons. This adds a ton of diffirent ways of killing your 
 foes! One i think minor improvement is the weaponupgrades. They are not verry nescecarry but still 
 add a bit of gameplay. The notoriety system is nothing verry special. But the headlines (altough 
 often somewhat the same) are always fun the read trough.
  
  Graphics: Niceley up to date. There are some light errors on low-end graphic card. These include 
 shadows that are verry incorrect and shining trough your character. (ATI X600)
  
  Sound: just good. No need to say more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  This game could be seen as great and I wouldn't fight aginst it. Hitman is a game to lose your 
 self in. The media would really love to take this to show how games can corrupt us but I see it 
 differently. This could be seen as a great way to relive stress. Me I kinda it to be a fun puzzle 
 game. There will be road bumps, problems and ways to solve them that may take a bit of thinking 
 to do.
  
  You start out as a hitman (of corse!) but there is a twist that many will remember from the old 
 hitman games. You are still a clone but this time it's diffrent. You are one of the few left because 
 many of your "brothers" are being taken out by other hitmen and cia agents and so on. So you are 
 going along doing hits, its not till mid game you figure out about the other agents dieing but 
 you don't do any thing about it really. You take out a few other hitman's along the way who you 
 belive are some of the people who killed the others. With out poping out any spoilers the game 
 will be a twist, you will feel betrayed, and pissed but when you relise what is really happening 
 you will be happy as can be.
  
  The game play keep me happy, the story and the way it all mixed it was really good. The graphics 
 shocked me. There must have been 2000 people on my screen in one level (dont wana have spoliers) 
 but half that on any other game would of crashed me. The sound could be better, but I am not much 
 on sound most the time its off so I can call my friends idiots on vent but the sound and story 
 telling here was well. It was worth the money and over all it gave me some good old fun. 8.5 is 
 what it gets from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Agent 47 is on another assignment and this time he is not alone as another agency is picking off 
 his teamates one after another. In Blood Money, you must go through exotic locals such as a Chile 
 drug den made up as a wine cellar and a Vegas hotel which many believe to be the hardest mission. 
 The graphics have marginally improved but the new crowd system shows the PC's capabilities. If 
 you walk through the Mardi Gras level, the Death of Crows, you will see nothing but people which 
 adds to the surrealism of the game. The new accident system is another great upgrade and the now 
 featured option to hide the bodies is another great addition. The levels are very nice looking 
 and mostly all textures are smooth instead of scratchy. If you can't hide a body very well, just 
 throw it of a rail. In the Chile level, A Vintage Year. There will be a guard patrooling around 
 and the last thing you need is for his body to be seen. If your not looking to achieve a Silent 
 Assassin rank, just throw his body off the rail. SOme other fun things are to put a bomb in a container 
 and when a target walks by, just hit the detonator and eliminate him. Yet there are more additions! 
 Hitman nows features a way of taking an enemy shield by grabbing someone from behind. And like 
 Contracts, it has open ended ways to eliminate your target which sets a good replay value. If your 
 looking for a great stealth game that adds more violence than anything, Hitman: Blood Money is 
 a worthy contender.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HimHvoHitman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I'm a hardcore Hitman fan and I have always loved the gameplay of the earlier games. 
 Hitman Blood Money gives almost everything I have wished for when we're talking gameplay. I love 
 the way you can create all these really cool accidents. The notoriety system is pretty good to 
 me, the newspaper articles does a fine job and there is some really interesting reading in them 
 the most of the time. I have spent a lot of time between the missions with this one. As mentiont 
 you get to see these newspapers, then a little part of the story through cut scenes and then you 
 can buy weapon upgrades (real sexys!) and different equipment. The story is the best in the Hitman 
 games yet but as always its a little hard fully understand. Probably only the fans will get all 
 what you can get out of it and thats a shame. The level design is great and I really love the last 
 few missions were the other agency is at the scene too. I know the AI isn't really a good thing 
 in this game but when you're going for the gold like me you don't really get to feel it. The saving 
 system haven't really bothered me yet cause I have just wanted to play more and more so I never 
 interrupted while playing a level. Though I can see it as a problem later. Both of the endings 
 are really cool and surprising.
  
  Graphics: Great! I run it on the highest settings and I thought it would be like Contracts but 
 it turned out it are like Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory. The shadows on the models and the clothes 
 they are wearing looks so amazing. Its some of the best graphics I have ever played with. Though 
 they could have used the pixel shader effects a little more. I never think games can get enough 
 pixel shadering (Just look at Splinter Cell) .
  
  Sound: The music is as always great. Silent Assassin has too much classic and Contracts had too 
 much electronic. This one has a good mix of both. 4/5 of the music is classic and that fits very 
 well in. Almost only when your cover is blown you get to hear the electronic and thats how I always 
 wanted it to be. I got surprised two times with the music. First was when I heard that they actually 
 used that cool song apocalypse from the first trailer, in the game (They e-mailed to people that 
 it was specially made for that trailer) . And second was when I heard the one of the same themes 
 thats in Contracts. I love returning themes as long as it dosn't end up with some James Bond or 
 Mission Impossible soundtrack. The voice acting is OK the most of the time. David Bateson (47) 
 and the one playing Diana is really good. The gangsta **** in the first level are voices are stupid 
 but thats also the only bad bad voice acting in the game. The sound it self is as it should be 
 though I'm missing some high crashes when you push someone into a wall. But the sound of the pistols 
 and shotguns mixed up with they're recoil and all the blood just makes you piss your pans.
  
  Value: You can play it again and again.. I'm going to play it now actually! Its worth it!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeMar86
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  MY RATINGS
  GRAPHICS  8.5
  SOUND  9.5
  CONTROL  9.5
  STORY  9.5
  
  OVERALL 9.5
  Note: I dont wish to spoil any part of the story, so this review will only discuss 
 the games other elements.
  Hitman Blood Money carries the series stealth, tactical action gaming to the next level with many 
 new additions as well as some of the series trademark game play features that will keep fans of 
 the series happy, as well as bring in some newcomers that have been skeptical about the Hitman 
 games.
  
  Blood Money is a Stealth/Action game played from 3rd person. In Blood Money, you control 47, a 
 genetically engineered assassin, in fact, the best assassin that has ever walked the Earth. But, 
 first things first, the back-story, well, you basically dont need to know any of it for any Hitman 
 game, and this stays true for Blood Money, although you may notice allusions and references, plus 
 youll just know more about 47s operations in the past.
  
  Obviously, 47 is a Hitman, and he has the tools to prove it. A lock pick gives 47 a quick entrance 
 into high security areas, syringes allow him to poison/sedate targets, a pair of high tech binoculars 
 allow 47 to zoom ridiculous distances to scope out a level, a remote bomb can be conveniently placed 
 in a targets room, or even their lunch. Last but not least, Fiber Wire, possibly the most essential 
 tool in 47s arsenal, allows him to kill absolutely silently, not to mention quickly.
  
  Lock picks and sedation were mentioned as a method of subterfuge; however another essential mechanic 
 is that of disguise. Any person can be sedated or killed, rending their clothes/security cards/etc 
 up for grabs, just make sure you hide them well, for any discovered body will only help compromise 
 your cover.
  
  Hitman games have always been open and full of options for carrying out your mission: you can be 
 the sneakiest shadow of a ghost or a machine gun toting Rambo, and all degrees in between. That 
 is the beauty of these games: there are varying degrees and many different methods to carry out 
 the hit depending on how you think, and how you interact with the 
  level.
  
  With the pricing of games these days, replay value is very important, and you will have plenty 
 with Blood Money. Even on your first run through a level, you will stumble upon many ways to complete 
 the level. 
  
  As an example, I will take the 2nd mission, without spoilers, so feel free to read on if you havent 
 played. You have a target/or targets depending on each mission. You can either assume a disguise 
 from a civilian/guard/staff member etc and enter, or look around for a way around a gate/wall or 
 whatever there may be. Next, scoping out the area, youll want to be sure to walk around the whole 
 map [if your clearance permits of course] to become familiar with your surroundings and the location 
 of your target/s. Next of course would be the setup, and this is one of the critical innovations 
 that sets Blood Money apart from its older brothers.
  
  You dont have to simply strangle, shoot, or poison your opponent, in Blood Money, you can make 
 any death seem like a tragic, or freak accident. See that chandelier hanging up above, you could 
 make it fall on top of a target and no one would be the wiser. There are many interactive accidental 
 death opportunities, but, for your sake, I do not wish to spoil them all, lets just say that if 
 you discover any major event in a level, chances are youll be able to use that in your hit. 
 
  
  Another improvement upon the originals is the inclusion of melee/disarming techniques for 47 to 
 use. If 47 is facing an armed opponent, he can pull a very smooth move where he hits them in the 
 head and relinquishes the weapon, immediately pointing it at their dazed head for a quick kill. 
 If 47 is behind an unassuming enemy, he can shove them [over cliffs, ledges, etc] not only this, 
 but when armed, 47 can grab anyone and use them as a human shield. Yet this is not the most rewarding 
 part about having a human shield, just hit the reload button and watch that animation, very cool.
 
  
  These are just a few of the game play mechanics you will utilize to carry out over a dozen missions 
 all over the world, from Southern America, to Paris, to your ideal American street in Suburbia.
 
  
  Now, onto the new engine, sound, and control
  
  Hitman Blood Money looks very good, with the Xbox360 and PC versions shining the most. Blood Money 
 uses a slew of effects: bump mapping, normal mapping, as well as some very pretty lighting and 
 environmental effects. 47 looks absolutely stunning, he is very high poly and super high res. His 
 suit looks very convincing as does his face, and this is good, because since most people will choose 
 to play from 3rd person perspective, it helps to have something good to look at. 47 has very nice 
 animations: from dragging a body, poking a syringe in someones neck, to leaping across a balcony, 
 or simply holding a gun. One particular thing to take notice of is the slow down and speed up animations 
 from/to running respectively. This is an often missed aspect for animators, and games without this 
 seem a little awkward at times. 
  
  One complaint about the modeling/skinning is that, although 47 looks absolutely amazing, sometimes 
 the npcs arent quite up to par. This isnt to say they ruin the experience, or even come close 
 to it, just that you might notice it.
  
  Another aspect complimenting the look of Blood Money is the sound. Hitman has always had great 
 sound, from Hitman Codename 47 to Hitman 2 Silent Assassin to Hitman Contracts, all games 
 have held their own in the sounds department and Blood Money does not disappoint. The soundtrack 
 is orchestral, helping to enhance the mood and tension. The great thing is that the soundtrack 
 is dynamic, changing with alert statuses and significant events. The music lends to create some 
 real tension as well as a great sense of achievement.
  
  Speaking of achievement, Blood Money will make you feel good about completing each and every mission. 
 This is due to all the planning that will take place [or maybe even not at all] for your success, 
 especially in attaining Silent Assassin, the highest rating. Walking out of a building knowing 
 no one even saw anything is very rewarding and once you make your escape, youll feel like you 
 can breathe once again. This is the level of immersion that Blood Money creates. This review could 
 go on and on about this, but lets go right to the controls.
  
  On PC, Blood Money controls exactly how it should, with WSAD and mouse controlling all of your 
 movement and looking around. The E, SPACE, and G keys control all interaction with anything. E 
 is used to open doors, drag bodies, lift lids to containers, etc. SPACE takes care of acquiring 
 items like weapons, briefcases, as well as changing uniforms. G will always drop the selected or 
 equipped item. If multiple actions can be performed [ex: open door and drag body] simply use the 
 scroll or the directional keys to choose the action. All in all, 47 moves as well as he can. There 
 was never anytime where he was stuck or not moving correctly. With the aforementioned animations 
 in mind, every action 47 performs looks smooth and correct; there is no awkward twitch between 
 actions or some such. In fact, the only complaint in this area is that sometimes, in restroom stalls, 
 the doors would not close unless a corpse/body was taken right next to the toilet, even though 
 the door wasnt flush to the ground. As much of an inconvenience it was to have to reposition a 
 body, it is very forgivable.
  
  
  All in all, Blood Money is more of what Hitman fans have always wanted: a slower, more plotting 
 stealth action game. Fans of the series will definitely need to pick this one up, and those who 
 havent tried any of the games yet, this may be the version you want. However, if you very much 
 dislike trial and error game play, you may be a little turned off, because the Hitman games, like 
 most stealth based games, has its fair share.
  
  
  AUTHORS NOTE:
  Thank you for taking the time to read this review, I know its long; I just wanted to give as much 
 helpful information about the game as I could. I do hope this review has helped any who took the 
 time to read it. Happy hunting out there!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarface67898
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  WooowW this is a great game the graphics and the ending is amazing this is defenetly a must have 
 go and buy it rigth now this is defenetly the best Hitman game it has great graphics music and 
 the ending is the best i have ever seen on a game i hope they make another one but i dont know 
 why on the rating it has partial nudity i didnt see any nudity but other than that the best ever 
 some flaws but still hte best game in its series they should fix the way you kill people with a 
 more realistic efffect and the suit shouldnt always be neatly stacked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cold_Assassin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the most beautiful and intelligent game on PC ever.
  Sometimes I can't figure out if it is a game or reality.
  47 as now dozens of new actions and 
 you can add stuff to your guns by earning money when you finish a misson.
  I replayed 10 times the first mission because their were so much ways to do it and its the same 
 for all the missons.
  Now your silverballer can have a scope, laser, expended clip, more leatle bullets and other details 
 like that.
  The sound is also very realistic especially for the guns' sound.
  But you graphic card must be VERY VERY good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tx_rx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I've not played any of the previous incarnations but was swayed by it's next gen stylee and was 
 enjoying it until I went up against some bad guys. As we all know the AI is minimally developed 
 and the death animations are horrible. Other than that it's a real nice player, love the look and 
 the feel of it. Can't help but think that the animation dept shipped it without the right animation 
 in it tho.
  
  Definately worth a rentable game, and I'm going to persist through the clunky ai and see what else 
 the game has to offer. Please patch the AI & Deaths of the npcs. I beg you!!!
  
  TX
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killamike241
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  If there is one thing you could say about the Hitman series it's that, barring its rocky start, 
 it's been fairly reliable as far as the quality of the content is concerned (and that it's more 
 violent than PMSing woman denied chocolate -Ed) . Some people felt, however, that Hitman: Contracts 
 was wavering a bit in those regards, so there was some pressure on Hitman: Blood Money to put the 
 series back on the right track.
  A word from our sponsors:
  
  Have I told you about my prostate yet? It's bad. 
  And all of this over a hot-dog.
  
  The 
 biggest draw of the Hitman games - what makes them unique and appealing to people - certainly has 
 to do with the main character himself - the baldheaded assassin for hire, a clone codenamed Agent 
 47. So as much as Hitman games are about gameplay design, the driving force behind the series is 
 still very much tied to the charisma of Mr. 47, as well as the quality of the story (2Lions has 
 a thing for bald men! Spread the rumor around! -Ed) .
  
  I can say with some degree of certainty that Hitman: Blood Money doesn't bring any spectacular 
 novelties in the gameplay department, but it does put the franchise back on track as far as the 
 story is concerned. Obviously, the Hitman series is all about the single-player experience, so 
 it's critical that the plot, the characters, and all the other elements of a good narrative are 
 in place if the game is to keep the player's attention. Hitman: Blood Money does very well in this 
 department. The story is immersive, it has an underlining effect on each of the missions, and it's 
 told in such a way that it makes the game suspenseful to the very end. In addition, the game is 
 brimming with delightful little background details that both make 47 look cool and the game world 
 vibrant and intriguing.
  Besides the storyline, one of the strongest points of this game is the art direction, which is 
 superb. Each of the levels will feel unique and intricate. Each new mission presented a visual 
 treat and an interesting environment to explore. The strategic addition of a great number of characters 
 in certain scenes (like in the Mardi Gras mission) gives a dose of believability and authenticity 
 to the game world (even though there would be just several NPC archetypes in each of these massive 
 scenes) . Hitman: Blood Money looks very pretty and that has mostly to do with great art direction, 
 rather than the DX 9 bells and whistles.
  
  The mission design seems to rely even more on the stealthy approach and the player's ability to 
 solve problems quietly and inconspicuously. IO may have even gone too far with this. The weapons 
 weren't all that important, and I found the 'all guns blazing' approach much too arduous and frankly, 
 a bit redundant. The downside to this clear-cut focus on stealth mission design is that the developers 
 often made it too easy for player to determine what they need to do in a given situation. Most 
 of the time, the solution seemed *way* too convenient, like the targets were almost throwing themselves 
 at you. This is not a matter of game difficulty, rather the layout of the missions themselves. 
 It seemed to me like some of the older games definitely had some trickier situations for players 
 to deal with. Hence, the missions seemed to last a bit longer as well as provide more of a challenge.
 
  
  Technically, Hitman: Blood Money is a solid game. I didn't have any major problems with the AI 
 (it seemed to do exactly what it should for the most part) , and playing on both an ATI and NVIDIA 
 system, the frame rate remained pretty steady throughout even with all the effects turned on.
 
  Hitman: Blood Money is definitely one of the better games in the series. Its strong sides include 
 a very well told story, characterization, and great level design, as well as all the other gameplay 
 treats we'd expect from a Hitman game. However, some rather straightforward solutions to mission 
 tasks make the game more linear than it used to be, and consequently, the replay value suffers 
 from it.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is definitely worth your money. It's a game with a lot of charm and personality. 
 It doesn't bring anything particularly new to the table, but it still has more than enough attributes 
 to impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benbob320
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  The game overall is very short but you really wont notice it until your finished. The games enviorments 
 are the seller, but the whole sneaking and taking out your targets like a real pro in movies is 
 really immersive and fun, though you could just run and gun it but that takes away 2/3 of the fun 
 of the game and will provide you with a very very short game. You will find yourself repeating 
 over and over again trying to finish one level but it just becomes so difficult and sometimes you 
 finaly realize what you have to do, and it was quite simple. The games developers provide you with 
 multiple ways to take out a target but their is only one flawless way but around 3 nearly flawless 
 and around infinte shoot and run ways. The game though is to short only 13 missions in all youll 
 find yourself feeling evil after what you do in this game, for the first time in the hitman series 
 your actually a evil person, in the previous games you took out bad guys, youll do that in this 
 one but the cutscenes show how ruthless you are for innocents also. overall a good game but it 
 should be around 30 dollars price not 40 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuntman_hy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Agent 47 is back in what is the best Hitman game to date. Hitman: Blood Money brings you back into 
 the violent and horrific world of Agent 47, the bald-headed contract killer. In this installment 
 of Hitman, you will perform some brilliantly and intelligently laid out assassination missions.
 
  
  Each mission has a much more in-depth story than missions in previous games. For example in the 
 first mission, you must assassinate a bankrupt, theme park owner. A few years ago, one of his rides 
 broke down due to technical issues and killed many people who were on the ride. The parents of 
 one of the victims has placed a contract on the theme park owner and surprise, surprise it is 47 
 who must pull this off. The parents also requested that a photo of their son, be shown to the owner 
 just before you kill him which shows just how the parents want this man to suffer emotionally as 
 well as physically.
  
  If you are bored of the same old killing techniques from previous Hitman games, for example poisoning 
 food, strangling or, shooting victims, then you will be pleasantly surprised. There are many new 
 ways to kill enemies, such as pushing them off ledges, hand-to-hand combat or injecting poison. 
 In one particular mission, your target is an actor and is rehearsing a scene in which he gets shot 
 by another actor. A clever and entertaining way to kill him is to replace the fake gun with a real 
 gun, and you can guess what happens next.
  
  The game is easy enough to get to grips with. The first mission (the theme park owner mission) 
 is a tutorial mission but is not optional; it must be completed in order to progress which is a 
 great idea in my opinion. The tutorial really will help you learn the basics of the game and is 
 made extremely helpful through narration, both voiced and subtitled. It will cover all of the basic 
 controls and techniques required to successfully play through the game.
  
  The story is the best that has been seen in a Hitman game yet! The ICA, Agent 47's agency, is losing 
 agents and it seems that an unknown rival agency is attempting to bring it down. Agent 47 fears 
 that he is the true target so he flees to the states where an interesting story will unravel itself 
 and build up to an amazing climax.
  
  Hitman fans will not be disappointed with the impressive gameplay. It is slightly different from 
 previous games (more slow paced) but you will still get the classic 'Hitman feel' after playing 
 through the first couple of missions. You will be able to move Agent 47 extremely smoothly and 
 you will have complete control over him. If you haven't played a Hitman game before then you may 
 need to get used to the gameplay but that is true with any game and the amazing tutorial will help 
 you with that anyway.
  
  The graphics are amazing, especially on the 360 or a high-end PC. You will encounter beautiful 
 environments, impressive reflections, and realistic looking characters. The graphics engine for 
 the game has been completely remade and looks much better than previous Hitman games. The characters 
 are by far the best looking part of the game. Amazing use of colour helps the characters stand 
 out as the most attractive part of the game.
  
  The sound is the game's weakest point. The sound effects are excellent. For example, gunshots and 
 explosions sound amazing and realistic but the dialogue is a little rushed. The voices in the FMV's 
 are perfect and makes you believe that they don't even have voice actors and are actually speaking. 
 But the in-game dialogue is a let down. It sounds slightly not-human and jumpy though it does improve 
 as the game progresses. The environment sounds such as birds, water and wind somewhat make up for 
 the terrible voice acting and add to the games realism.
  
  The soundtrack, on the other hand, is absolutely amazing. Hitman fans will know that the series 
 has a reputation for producing exceptional pieces of music. The music in this game is no different. 
 The first piece of music you hear, on the main menu, is amazing and is just a taster of what the 
 rest of the game has in store for you. The score has been put together, with a mixture of emotion 
 and suspense, by the amazing composer Jesper Kyd, who is responsible for the beautiful music that 
 can be heard in the previous games.
  
  This game is definitely worth the money if you are a fan of the genre or the series. Hitman fans 
 are in for a treat. Still if you are new to the series, there is no need to start from the first 
 game. You can easily pick up the story and enjoy the immersive gameplay. This game is the best 
 game that I have played so far in 2006.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grepgarbinkle
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  I have viewed Hitman games in different ways over the years, at first being against the idea of 
 playing some creep who only kills for money, but after looking into and playing Hitman 2 I was 
 really impressed by it and realized I didn't have a problem with the franchise. Looking at the 
 people he kills, especially in this game, I'm really proud to be 47. 
  I actually did go back and play hitman 2 and contracts to compare it to this one, and its really 
 interesting. I thought about what it is about these games that would convince me to play them over 
 other games, aside from the premise of getting to kill these evil people. What separates these 
 games from Splinter Cell, (stealth game) , or any number of 3rd and 1st person shooters? Lets look 
 into that.
  
  The first element that separates Hitman is fitting into a crowd. Not many of these kinds of games 
 let you go around like a normal person and mingle with a crowd. Hitman also lets you disguise yourself, 
 which makes things even more interesting. I'm so thrilled that it really works in this game, unlike 
 hitman 2, which is almost unplayable to me now because of how unrealistically people react to 47. 
 It's really more puzzle than realism, but thats probably all they could do back in the day. Blending 
 in is really useful in this one, and differentiates this. I'm not sure there is a really effective 
 stealth mechanic in place, like splinter cell, but stealth works enough. I still feel that Splintercells 
 stealth and nighttime mechanics work better and are more professional. 
  
  Another aspect of game play of real coolness is the managing weapons and money before assignments 
 system. I have always liked the bounty hunter kind of thing where you get money and buy stuff, 
 so that made me bubble with glee. 
  
  The weapons though leave me rather dissatisfied. Hitman 2 had very curious shooting mechanics, 
 as the bullets were visible and traveled unbelievably slow. They were on target though. Contracts 
 had definitely the best shooting mechanics of the series, with accurate fast shots that made game 
 playable from 1st and 3rd person shooting. Blood money has fast bullets at least, but this is one 
 of the oddest shoot mechanics ever! This is worse than splintercell's original 6 foot away headshot 
 misses! The first few shots are usually ok, but then the shooting gets wild, especially with automatic 
 guns. Years after Max Payne one, I still find it hard to believe it is so difficult for game developers 
 to make good fun shooting mechanics. Yet even a hyped game like this one sadly has an inferior 
 shooting game. This is most disappointing to me, because core mechanics are so important to me. 
 But again if I wanted to play a game that had tight shooting I could play last years splinter cell 
 and get the rush of being a hidden assassin, killing without being seen. Maybe the next splinter 
 cell will be the game to blend great shooting with npc interactions that go beyond, "player is 
 enemy, shoot." The melee in splinter cell is also far beyond that in blood money, although blood 
 money's melee is very good. The details are very good, as it seems the developers did their homework. 
 The way he cuts someones throat by stabbing the knife into their neck and then slicing it out 
 is definitely for real, and I liked the weapon disarms, something most shooters could use. 
  
  I want to comment on the graphics too. This games looks great. The models should be better, 
 but the textures and effects are real great. It looks fabulous, especially the lighting. 
  
  Over all I think Blood Money has my attention because overall it does make for an orginal game 
 that lets me do things I cant do in other games, and it does them very well, save for the shooting. 
 If only the shooting was better, it would be so amazing. One thing though I have to say. The sudden 
 shift that has occurred in gaming to add in vulgar and obscene language is disgusting. Just a few 
 years ago, no major title included anything more than what would be in a pg-13 movie, but now games 
 are including all manner that kind of thing, and its unnecessary and unpleasant to many gamers. 
 It's not for religious reasons for me, I'm just enough of a decent person to realize to stupidity 
 of using that kind of language and am disgusted by it. There are plenty of other words they can 
 use in this game that they dont need to use all the worst ones. When I look at computer generated 
 characters cursing at me it just feels so strange. It's so not serious, and developers should really 
 not put that in there, because it does nothing but alienate people. I am very grateful for them 
 including an option to turn speech volume all the way down, because otherwise I wouldnt play the 
 game. Honestly I didnt know there would be this kind of cussing in this game, and I don't think 
 any game is so must play that it deserves to be bought when it has this kind of stupidity in it. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shundhit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Well this is my first review so I will describe it as well as I can. I played this game and I have 
 been a fan to the Hitman series. But this gmae takes the cake there are enw new killing ways for 
 u to eliminate those crime bosses and international terrorists who wreak havoc on the world. AI 
 was good too and chalenging. Though I did notice some glitches it such as in the first mission 
 where 47 kills that gangster at the gate I'm sure he would have struck harder at the gate to kill 
 him cuz this really goes to the game's physics level. Yeah it's a little bad but good enough. Iam 
 sure many people have fun playing this game while Iam not sure about multiplayer cuz I haven't 
 played it online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 3, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  The 4th game in the series crated by Eidos, Hitman Blood Money provides new opportunities to take 
 someones life for money. This time, however, a few new features cause for extra fun, although 
 in essence the game stays the same.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Hitman Blood Moneys story picks off from where the last game in series had ended. Agent 47, a 
 nameless clone and assassin, has moved to the US while The Agency he works for continues to experience 
 an increased loss of its agents. The story is told through cut-scenes in which an invalid gives 
 an interview to a reporter by telling the 47s story, trying to convince him of the dangers of 
 legalizing cloning. The gameplay itself is actually part of the story and quite simply involves 
 assassinating a certain target or targets. 
  
  Hitman might cause a moral dilemma with a few people. While I know its not an issue with the majority 
 of our violent and sadistic youth, it can be an issue with the more mature public like me. You 
 are, after all, murdering different people who havent done you anything wrong. However, the funny 
 thing about the missions is that they usually involve killing scum not better than yourself. Just 
 to recall a few targets: drug dealers, people in child trafficking, assassins, rapists and killers. 
 Some missions even come across as rather heroic.
  
  The range of manners to finish a job is huge in all Hitman games, and this one is not an exception. 
 To name a few examples of murder methods, there is strangulation, crushing, shooting and poisoning 
 with a syringe. 
  
  It is natural that with such freedom, the weaponry must be quite varied. It is. From large scissors 
 to a silenced sniper rifle, Blood Money involves special, so-called custom, weapons as well as 
 weaponry that is commonly found in places you will be working at. Some weapons might only be useful 
 only once or twice in the whole game, and yet they are all well modeled and have their own sounds. 
 The standard weapons are found at the mission location while the custom weapons are available at 
 start and can be upgrades with different mods. 
  
  Since he is operational in so many hostile places, Agent 47 needs to rely heavily on stealth. Thus 
 he is able to change his outfit to gain access to areas normally restricted for unauthorized personnel. 
 He can hide items in different containers to elude metal detectors, and hes also quite an acrobat 
 when it comes to climbing around. The tension meter tells you at what alert level the people around 
 you are. If youre discovered somewhere youre not supposed to be at or if you stand for too long 
 in front of a suspecting enemy the meter rises to yellow. If your cover is blown, the color changes 
 to red and all hell breaks loose. The available map each level takes a lot of the tension out of 
 the game as all the characters are shown on the map in real time.
  
  While the assassins job is plenty of fun by itself, this time around you can actually see what 
 youre earning with your jobs. Moreover, you can spend that money on weapon modifications and bribes. 
 Your performance during the missions can affect the final amount you will receive at their end. 
 In Hitman Blood Money it literally pays to be patient, as too much damage or carelessly leftover 
 equipment will cause extra expenses, while things like staged accidents will result in a cash bonus.
 
  
  Unnecessary victims and other untidy behavior will also affect the rating received at the end of 
 each mission. This also encourages the player to be stealthy, although not very effectively since 
 the rating does not contribute to the unlocking of new weapons as it did in the previous game.
 
  
  While the player has full freedom to go into the mission area guns blazing, the value of the game 
 will be seriously reduced for that person. Thats so because youre skipping all the formalities 
 that normally take most of the play-time, like stalking victims to steal their outfit or making 
 deaths look like accidents. Such a time loss will result in a feeling that the two action-packed 
 hours were not worth the money you paid for the game. The value of the game is not endless to begin 
 with due to the predictable lack of a multi-player mode.
  
  Another problem that faces restless Rambo-type players is the lackluster AI that was created for 
 the sneaky players and not for Rambos. When alerted, enemies from all over the level will all 
 be gathering in the spot where the alert went off. If youre a little careful, you can depopulate 
 the area in seconds, leaving a clean place to operate in.
  
  The other aspects of the AI are quite intricate, though. AI will react differently to the players 
 behavior. Trespassing will result in a character following the main character to warn him of his 
 fault, and if that doesnt help, going to further action. When alerted, civilians will run away, 
 alert guards and sometimes pick up a gun to defend themselves. Characters walk around, doing their 
 business. The heavily scripted AI behavior, however, allows for its abuse. You can time to the 
 second when a certain character will do something, so stealth stops being a game of chances.
  
  Such a heavily scripted game is not without flaws. At times, a seemingly genius idea will come 
 into players mind on how to accomplish a mission efficiently, but he will find out that the idea 
 doesnt work because of one or another bug thats not been foreseen by developers. Some of these 
 bugs are very direct and harmful. For example, in one of the missions the game kept crashing to 
 the desktop if an item was dropped by the character. That made completing the level with a high 
 rating almost impossible.
  
  Graphics
  
  Hitman Blood Money will not win an Oscar for the visuals, at least not for a particular aspect 
 of it. Too many textures are too blurry and there are no particularly breathtaking effects. Effects 
 like light bloom are present (light bloom gives a certain shine to all objects) , but effects like 
 these have become mandatory in the next generation games and are therefore not really worth mentioning. 
 Nevertheless, Hitman Blood Money deserves a high grade for its graphics because, on average, all 
 of its aspects are done quite well. The shadowing in particular deserves attention. Shadows are 
 soft, plentiful and believable, contrary to the high contrast shadowing in games like Doom 3 where 
 the detailed shadows are over exaggerated. Reflections on weaponry and water are exceptionally 
 clear. The characters in Hitman are well modeled, as they should be, since they take up much of 
 the players attention. The scenes of operations are diverse. From swamps to the chic Las Vegas 
 to a hospital, there will always be something to keep your eyes busy. Each environment is full 
 of generic objects like trashcans and computers. The characters breath is even visible when in 
 a cold environment. In short, there is a clear sense of the developers attention to details. 
 
  
  Eidos had a lot of experience with cut-scenes. Much similarity can be seen between cut-scenes in 
 Hitman and its other, much anticipated game series: Tomb Raider. The professionalism in respect 
 to these scenes makes the player feel like hes watching an actual movie. Present at the beginning 
 and the end of each mission, these cut-scenes give a solid structure to the game. There are also 
 several mini in-game cut-scenes like the assembly of the sniper rifle, which give an extra sense 
 of realism. 
  
  Sound
  
  The tense background music differs according to the situation the player is in. However, it is 
 typical background music, so it doesnt steal the players attention from the gameplay. Ave Maria 
 played at the main menu is the only real music track in the whole game.
  
  Voicing is one of the most memorable things about the sound in Blood Money. The voices correspond 
 well with the characters looks. The main character sounds calm and low, like a professional hitman 
 ought to sound. When on a job in the south of the US, NPCs are heard speaking with a true Southern 
 accent. All of this again refers to the attention to details.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Blood Money is made in true Hitman style. The assassination theme is brought to life professionally 
 with a high attention to particulars. As in the previous games, there is a lot of place for improvisation. 
 All of it is wrapped in a decent visual and audio package. This is definitely a must-have for the 
 fans of the series, but those new to the game might want to rent the game first. If only not for 
 the few very annoying bugs, Hitman Blood Money would be a real show stealer.
  
  Subjective thoughts
  
  This is the part where I let loose and tell why I personally loved or 
 hated this game in relation to my own perception. Hitman has been one of the best trips for me 
 for many reasons. One of the main reasons is that it stays loyal to its theme. Yes, the hitman 
 does kill criminals, but not all of them are confirmed criminals and thats twice as true for the 
 other NPCs that stand between 47 and his mission in one or another way. Theres no sentimental 
 moral c*ap. If you need to wipe out the whole building, do so.
  
  Moreover, I love the freedom given to the player. I love the ability to stalk the enemy until hes 
 alone, then quickly taking him out with a single silent shot to the back of the head and then disposing 
 of his body. Perhaps, instead, I will push him over the railing or cut his throat. Blood Money 
 has something for each style.
  
  Finally, Eidos found a way to make the story very intriguing, especially at the end, and that causes 
 me to think about the game for several days to come. A game that makes me think of its storyline 
 days after I finished it is worth a lot in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Its assassination season again and who better to spend it with than everyones favorite bald, 
 well-dressed hit man? The latest addition to the Hitman series, Hitman: Blood Money, brings 
 back some old, deals out some new and somehow continues to make cold-blooded and extremely well-planned 
 murder more fun than playing dodge ball with Kirstie Alley.
  
  The latest in the Games your mother wouldnt want you to play series has actually been making 
 headlines for the past two years. In 2004, a religious watchdog group declared the game, which 
 probably had about less than a level complete, was devastating our nations children. Good thing 
 I dont have kids, or Id be killing them by the second just writing this review.
  
  Agent 47, the worlds deadliest cloned assassin (and the one man you dont want to call Mr. Clean) , 
 has found himself in an unfortunate predicament: He no longer is the hunter, he is the hunted. 
 Thankfully for you, hes still collecting blood money. As the story begins, we find that Agent 
 47 is the target of a wealthy and powerful individual who wants to prevent future clone assassins 
 from being produced and one day ending his precious life. The gameplay is still the memorable go 
 out, sneak around and creatively kill a dozen people routine, but nevertheless, youll want to 
 keep an eye out for some special agents looking to end the clone ancestry forever. 
  
  The setting is entirely on American soil, so expect to find 47 in some familiar locations such 
 as Las Vegas, Washington D. C. or a suburban neighborhood in La Jolla, California (a little too 
 familiar for me) . The game features over a dozen levels, many of which are some of the most interactive 
 and well-designed levels youll find in both the Hitman series and single player stealth games. 
 Aside from two Mississippi-based levels that are as fun as E. T. for the Atari, Hitman: Blood 
 Money makes the previous Hitman installments levels look like a joke.
  
  The sheer magnitude of the levels in Hitman: Blood Money surpasses any past Hitman title. At 
 last, AI critics can applaud a believable environment that feels more uncomfortable and nerve-racking 
 than ever. The mass-scale of the levels can also add a great deal of excitement if you are seven 
 floors away from your target as he gets into a perfect Assassination-Ready Position. Hitman: 
 Blood Money is one of those games where youll want to tell extremely memorable gameplay stories 
 even to your grandmother. No, no, Grandma. I hid the bomb in his briefcase, but I couldnt detonate 
 it! With a wide array of paths to take and what may at times seem like a world of limitless possibilities, 
 the game has defined next-gen single player games and the replay value that should accompany them.
 
  
  Most of the new features are reminiscent of the most acclaimed game from the series, Hitman 2: 
 Silent Assassin in that there is a weapon system. This time, however, there are upgrades for the 
 main weapons, such as scopes or silencers. The upgrades are purchased with money that you gain 
 from being as discreet and Catwoman-like as possible when playing the missions. This can mean not 
 forgetting to hide bodies, not getting caught on film by cameras or as simple as not going into 
 the White House shooting up every Marine in sight (trust me, not a good idea) . This, however, raises 
 the question of Why would I want shotgun or assault rifle upgrades when Im trying to be quiet 
 and practically non-existent? Surprisingly, the game does still promote stealth. The upgrades 
 are meant mainly for when you are finished with the game and want to go back and have fun as Rambo 
 47. 
  
  The game also promotes stealth through a notoriety system that tracks how well known you are by 
 the media. The less youre seen and the less witnesses that survive, the lower your notoriety and 
 consequently, the more you should pat yourself on the back. Unfortunately, a lot of the new features 
 are cool to look at and brag about to your cat, but lacking in any impact on the game.
  
  If theres anything the Hitman series has forgotten to do in its past three titles, it would 
 definitely be the little things. The addition of simple features like the way Agent 47 conceals 
 his weapons behind his back ever so slightly when approaching someone, being able to fight hand-to-hand 
 or the ability to use someone as a human shield make the game so much more realistic and exhilarating 
 during close-calls. Knowing that dumpsters and fridges will always be nearby to hide bodies proves 
 to be quite helpful as well, but seems too disturbing even to write.
  
  As for those wondering about pixels and environmental sound effects, no Hitman title has ever 
 looked or sounded this impressive before. The requirements are a bit demanding for PC gamers (about 
 256 MB video card at least) , but the XBOX 360s version is just as smooth and vivid to watch as 
 a PC running the game on full settings. 
  
  The soundtrack is, as always worth the price tag alone (although its been difficult for the last 
 two to stand up to Hitman 2: Silent Assasin) . Composer Jesper Kyd never ceases to impress me 
 with his epic horns and eerie Godfather-like themes that reference the original Hitman soundtracks 
 with such creativity. By the time the surprising and ear-to-ear grinning ending level closes, the 
 soundtrack will be stuck in your ears for a long time.
  
  Above all new features, additions and technical babble in Hitman: Blood Money, theres one aspect 
 of the Hitman series that finally comes to life: The art of death. As gamers, we all have different 
 reasons for taking on the role of assassin; it could be the joy of planning the most perfect hit 
 or the adrenaline rush we get when taking out a mobster and then walking out his front door. But 
 I think we all see its underlying artistic side. The way the game portrays death always seems to 
 make it feel like an art, a craft and more than just a click of a mouse or push of a button. When 
 the top executive of a company is on his hands and knees begging you not to take his life, what 
 do you do? The silence is, in a sense, beautiful and its more shocking than ever to see such a 
 medium of entertainment convey such powerful themes. 
  
  And while no Hitman game will ever be like the brilliantly produced Hitman 2, seeing such improvements 
 finally take aim has made the series much more satisfying. If Tetris DS has been killing you 
 lately, let Agent 47 do some killing for you; you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Being a guy who has played all three previous Hitman -games, sinking back into the 47's world wasn't 
 a hard thing to do. Just grab again your fiberwire, silenced ballers and you're ready to go again.
 
  
  First, comment about the graphics. Once again, they look better than the previous game, yet not 
 the Absolutely Best Available. Don't get me wrong, the graphics are well over the par, just that 
 I guess you could have better if you'd have better machine's to play it with. With my moderate 
 setting it works well enough, and I don't recall getting any hitches along the way. Some people 
 have complained about issues, I've had none, so guess I'm a bit lucky again.
  
  Secondly, I like the new moves. And unlike in newest installment of Splinter Cell, we actually 
 get to use quite a lot of the new tricks along the way. Additional to the normal choking a guy, 
 taking his clothes and dragging him away somewhere, now you can also hide'em to a proper container, 
 throw'em off the edge or balcony, use'em as a human shield, and so on. Also, now it is possible 
 for you to hide to a closet (and yes, it helds a gay-joke inside, but I'll leave that to someone 
 else) .
  
  Wether these new stuff come usefull to you, it's very much depending on your gamestyle. In many, 
 if not in all missions, there's multiple ways to deal with the tasks, ranging from exploding things, 
 strangling someone or just shooting'em, or possibly something else. Options aren't limitless, but 
 there's a few in pretty much every mission. It's up to you to find out about'em. 
  Should I just shoot him? Or should I feed him to the sharks? Or I could just sneak up on him and 
 shove a needle to his neck. Or maybe I should just put an explosive to a briefcase, and take it 
 near the target, move away and blast the whole place.
  The only thing restricting your actions is yourself. However, if you do kill your targets quietly, 
 without witnesses, you get more money and better rank for the mission (sadly, Silent Assassin no 
 longer grants you any extra stuff, as far as I know) , since you don't have to pay for the damage 
 control nor the witnesses to shut up. If you get witnesses or caught on tape, the next days newspaper 
 after every mission might show your actual face, eventually leading to situation where the next 
 mission's guards start shooting at you without questions, so I'd guess the more silent the better. 
 But of course, the ethics are already demanding silent takedowns.
  Shooting in Blood Money is also bit different from previous Hitman -games, 'cause now the weapon's 
 blowback affects your aiming, basically meaning that if you try to shoot a full clip from MP5, 
 most likely 25 of the 30 shots at least aren't headshots. It adds a nice touch of realism, even 
 when you won't get to use all that much weapons, incase you're going for the silent treatment.
 
  
  While in Hitman : Contracts the plot was... well, non-existent really, Blood Money covers it's bases 
 bit better, but this still ain't Oscar-material. The cut-scenes show a press-guy getting an invitation 
 to FBI Director's house, who starts telling him things about 47, and you basically play the missions 
 he talks/shows him about, ultimately leading to the menu screen situation to end the story. The 
 ending is one of the greatest (if not The Greatest) ending in recent gaming history, and also equally 
 frustrading at times. But then again, I guess it's supposed to be hard.
  
  Music in the game is made by the same guy as before, Jesper Kyd, who, once again, makes a score 
 worthy of buying the soundtrack. The kind of mix of classical music and techno/something similar 
 sounds so amazingly fit for the game.
  Also I have to raise my hat for the gun sounds. For once, silenced guns sound like silenced guns, 
 and shotgun emits such a nice sound that I just like to shoot with it. 
  Other than that, sounds are nothing special. Dialogue is decent. It serves the purpose, but nothing 
 more.
  
  In conclusion, I'd say Blood Money is best of the Hitman -games. It is indeed pretty much the same 
 stuff as before, but with a lot better missions (multiple ways to accomplish'em and no real low 
 standard missions) and couple more tricks to add to your sleeve. 13 missions doesn't sound much, 
 but if you put your thought into it, and try to get the Silent Assassin from every single one of'em, 
 it'll last a while.
  The ending, duel with another assassin, hiding your enhanced weapon to some lady's bag so she gets 
 arrested inside the White House... priceless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  first and foremost i was anxious to play the game being that it would be my first time playing 
 the game hitman. I was very fascinated with the trailer so i knew i had to have it. when i installed 
 it and ran it i was astonished that it was LAGGING (3fps) the graphicsand sound were props but 
 it was LaGGING. i jumped to the conclusion that it was by graphics card. but i found out that many 
 other people were having the same problem. they said that edios would release a patch to rectify 
 the problem. I waited and finally installed the patch and now it works superb. it was difinitely 
 worth the wait. it is a very innovative game. and i reccommended everyone to play it u wouldn't 
 be dissapointed if problem persist install the patch it would rectify all problems. great game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgames123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  best game ever created especialy for pc 
  
  best pc game i have played up two now exept for the fight noght round 3 game that was absolutely 
 fantastic aswell but hitman tops all of the third person shooter games i have played every game 
 out for the ps2 and i am not exagerating i bougt a new game every day after i had traded the others 
 in and i have never played a game as good as hitman blood money for any console except the xbox 
 360 if you are looking to buy and xbox 360 i strongly advise you to get one they are fantastic 
 and their is lloads of fantastic looking games coming out for dem for example splinter cell double 
 agent dead rising gears of war and others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sidrat2004
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  The last couple of Hitman games have been a hit and miss affair, thankfully there's the same sparkle 
 from the first game which makes the fourth installment a dark pleasure to enjoy.
  
  The levels are much more open ended than the earlier ones, although the AI can be a bit strange, 
 the guards and police CAN actually change their route from one game to the next but how often that 
 happens I don't know. The levels are quite diverse too which just adds to the jet setting hitman 
 lifestyle. One day you could be in an abandonded fair ground, tomorrow a quiet leafy suburb and 
 the next at a Mardi Grass festival.
  
  The weapons and equipment are only as usefull as your imagination to use them, although taking 
 someone out with a sniper rifle is still fun, it's just not something that you should bring to 
 every assignment. Indeed I reckon you could do most levels without bringing any of your own weapons, 
 just using the basic equipment should get you through security and finding a quite spot where a 
 guard or member of staff is smoking or sleeping through you'll be able to put him in a deep sleep, 
 take his clothes and weapon hide the recumbant form and continue your business.
  
  The graphics on this PC version aren't bad. They aren't photorealistic either, but they get the 
 job done so it's not worth complaining about them.
  
  The added Noteriety status seems quite mute when after completing a couple of levels you'll easily 
 be able to pay off any of the three levels of bribery that you may or may not need. It seems like 
 it was half implemented and at the last minute.
  
  To Summarize.
  
  If you've never played a hitman game before, the open ended nature of the levels could seem a bit 
 too overbearing, but their is no doubt that this game has a lot more replay value than previous 
 installments. Buy or Rent? That's down to personal tastes, if there was an included SDK it would 
 be a categorical BUY, but as they are not going to release anything to aid the Mod and map makers 
 even with the replayability the shelf life will be greatly reduced. It's still a great journey 
 and a very good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maziarm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Though very similar to the last two games in the series, the open-ended stealth action gameplay 
 offered by Hitman: Blood Money is still just about as tensely exciting as ever. A few new twists 
 to the formula, an intriguing story, and a memorably diverse, cinematic sequence of missions further 
 make Blood Money worth it. More bad people in high places need to be murdered in Hitman: Blood 
 Money. 
  This is the fourth game in the Hitman series, but previous experience with the past games isn't 
 assumed or required. In fact, you'll probably be more impressed with the game if you've never played 
 one of these before. Returning players will be in for a comfortably familiar experience. The previous 
 games' stories are alluded to during the course of this one, in which 47 discovers that he and 
 his employer are being threatened by some other mysterious agency. He'll learn more of the rival 
 agency's motives as he completes his own jobs, all leading up to a surprising and climactic conclusion. 
 The starting mission leads you by the nose through one of 47's typical assignments -- to eliminate 
 a shady theme park operator, whose negligence once cost the lives of many innocent people. This 
 man, called the Swing King, even entered the drug business in the wake of his theme park's collapse. 
 47's employer has asked that a photo of a deceased loved one be the last image that the crook ever 
 sees... but when you finally reach him, he's just this sad worm of a man who grovels at 47's feet. 
 Despite the number of armed thugs you'll need to get through before putting the Swing King out 
 of his misery, this mission is easy, provided you follow the step-by-step instructions you're given. 
 Subsequent missions are substantially tougher and less linear, but this first one still is representative 
 of the types of moody, affecting scenarios you'll encounter in the game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman games have always been a source of sweat inducing, heart racing action, quite different 
 from normal action titles. Mixing the excellent gameplay, dark humour, jaw dropping visuals, and 
 atmospheric sound, Hitman: Blood Money is the Hitman game for the next generation.
  
  While most action games focus directly on the body count, or how grusome the killings are, Hitman 
 is a very different game. In order to get top scores, you have to kill only the intended targets, 
 and get away cleanly. This leads to some heart racing stealthy action. Hitman benefits from its 
 very open gameplay style, giving you the chance to kill everyone in sight, or to go stealthy and 
 cleverly kill your targets and stage it like an accident. These gameplay mechanics also lead to 
 humours situations, such as in a memorable moment, injecting a sleep inducing toxin into doughnuts 
 that were sent to an FBI van allowed you to steal their clothes, and gain entry to the target. 
 A nice addition is the accident method of killing someone. Somehow, planting a bomb on a chandaler 
 and watching it fall onto your targets head is very gratifying. Another clever addition is the 
 newspaper clippings between missions. These tell you how you fared as an assassin. If you killed 
 everyone in sight, there will be a large article, telling the story of who died, how the died, 
 how many bullets were shot, if you were a good shot or not, and if you were really unstealthy, 
 there may be a police sketch of you as well, making later missions harder as people recognize your 
 face. On the other hand, if you were the stealthy assassin, like you were supposed to be, the articles 
 will briefly mention their deaths, and then delve into their background due to the lack of evidence 
 that they were actually murdered.
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutley breathtaking. Apart from the odd face being reproduced 
 in the massive crowd scenes, think hundreds of people celebrating mardi gras in the streets, the 
 graphics are simply atmospheric. The varied locations look authentic, 47 looks tough and angry, 
 and the guards look suitably roughed up. The sound is just as good, with a gripping soundtrack 
 that switches between a haunting opera style, to a full on drum and bass style according to the 
 situation. The voice acting is also good, particularly that of 47.
  
  This game is a must for everyone who enjoys substance in their games, a good mixture of difficulty, 
 excitement, atmosphere, and gameplay make this one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViSK88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Very deep and realistic game. The Re-Playability is just amazing ... the game play is perfect. 
 Play in expert diff.
  
  The graphics are very nice and evry cent of it cost is well spended ... thts a high -end product.
 
  The demo is bad, and dosn't show the truly value of the game ... go, and buy it, you' ll never 
 regret it.
  The Newspaper that comes ot after evry mission is fantastic and realistic, i love it 
  
  . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a cool game. If you are unfamiliar with the franchise, basically you are 
 the result of a cloning experiment, trained as an assassin. In this newest installment of the game, 
 you are given various targets to kill while a plot unfolds in between each mission. The bottom 
 line is, people are on to you, and are trying to kill you.
  
  Each mission you are able to review the objectives and any other information, and choose your weapons 
 for task at hand. You can also upgrade your equipment heavily, however, more powerful items for 
 purchase are unlocked as you progress through the storyline, so you will only obtain the best gear 
 at the very end of the game, a common problem with many FPS games.
  
  However you are free to repeat missions at any time if you like, which while unrealistic, is surprisingly 
 fun. There are alot of ways to kill people, and many players might find it fun to accomplish a 
 mission with maximum or minimum body count. So feel free to bring your new silencer and extended 
 mag to that newbie mission!
  
  Difficulty is basically making the AI more suspicious of you (detecting disguises faster) , and 
 reducing the number of times you can save the game during the mission. On normal mode, you get 
 a ridiculous 7 saves, whereas on pro (the hardest) you get none, which can be quite challenging.
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful. The scenery of each level is very well done. There are lots of complex 
 shadows and other lighting effects such as fog and bloom. The system requirements are pretty decent. 
 I'm running an AMD 64 3700 with a ATI x700 pcix and 1GB of RAM and I get about 30-40 FPS in most 
 areas.
  
  The AI in the game is both good and bad. Good from a perspective that everyone seems to have some 
 scripted behaviors that they perform. For instance in an opera house, security is walking around 
 checking on different areas or perhaps heading into a security control room to watch some monitors 
 for a while, repair and maintenance men are walking around doing different things or maybe stopping 
 at the john for a wiz. I'm not a big fan of heavy scripting, but with all the different things 
 going on it seems almost seemless. For this reason the AI is very good. But then the action starts...
 
  
  When people hear gunfire they react in different ways. Some will run towards guards and notify 
 them. Some will cower in fear. Some will run towards the source of the shot to investigate. Security 
 personell will attempt to find the source of the shot and, if you are detected, will start shooting 
 at you. The problem is they will approach often from the same direction, allowing you to create 
 a choke point as they all run in to their imminent headshot doom. I can't really think of any other 
 way to do this with today's technology, so it's forgiven, but boy does it look silly.
  
  A cool hitman AI experience is clearing an area with silenced pistols and having some unknowing 
 security guy come waltzing in later to discover the problem but still be unaware since he didn't 
 "see" it happen.
  
  A bad hitman AI experience is sniping someone with a silenced sniper rifle about 200 yards away 
 and having the 50+ people surrounding him instantly RUN DIRECTLY AT YOU. (I killed em all :P)
 
  
  It's a give and take I guess. Ultimately, the game is a lot of fun. Part of the fun is exploiting 
 the wackiness of the AI sometimes too. For instance planting bombs in suitcases of unknowing tourists 
 and setting them off when they reach an area of dense population, watching everyone go haywire... 
 priceless.
  
  One of your tools is your ability to dress in the outfits of your victims. You may suit up as a 
 security guard for access to a specific area for instance. Basically you approach a body and change 
 suits and your character bends over the body momentarily and instantly switches "skins" to the 
 new clothing. Though this is a bit herky jerky, I don't want to have to wait for my character to 
 strip down to his skivvies, fasten buttons, tie shoelaces, etc.
  
  The sound of the game is awesome. Tons of voice multilingual voice talent for the characters, lots 
 of cool weapon sounds, etc. The music is also quite nice, changing as different circumstances come 
 about.
  
  Replayability is really dependent on the person. I've beat the game twice (once on normal, once 
 on pro) and have enjoyed both times through. I've also played through a few of my favorite missions 
 a few more times just for kicks. Ultimately I'm about done with the game though, I'd say I've invested 
 about 20 hours in it.
  
  Hitman really brings the cold-blooded assassin motif up very nicely. If you want to whack some 
 people, this is the game for you.
  
  Gameplay - 9 - Playing through each mission how you want is very open ended, making the game alot 
 of fun to play.
  
  Graphics - 9 - They are superb.
  
  Sound - 9 - Nice music, great sound effects, fantastic voice acting.
  
  Value - 8 - Decent 
 long game with some replay value in there. High quality game over all with very few bugs.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 9 - Though I'm a bit Hitman'd out having played through twice and then some, 
 I'm sure I will be back when the urge for killin' calls again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarlosHigg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  This was the first time that I decided to actually venture into the world of Agent 47 so some of 
 you may see it as not fair for me to review this game as I have no previous experience of the games, 
 but i'm going to give it a shot anyway.
  
  The reason I think this game should be classed as the best stealth game is because of the way IO 
 interactive have differentiated this game from the number of growing stealth games. The main difference 
 I see in this game is freedom. The freedom to choose exactly how you want to kill your target and 
 the fact that you can freely walk around in a disguise while guards are none the wiser (from what 
 I understand you could not show your face in the previous games) .
  
  The new feature of customising your weapon right down to the size of its clip is also a great feature, 
 although there was only one mission where you could actually have a non-concealable weapon out 
 without getting shot at, so I thought that was a bit of a waste.
  
  The other issue was the actual length of the game, as although the immersive storyline kept you 
 gripped and had a very clever ending, the end of the game left you open for more.
  
  The soundtrack for the game added a lot of the atmosphere, whether the fast beat starts while you 
 are being chased by guards or the calm voice of a singer starts as you are inside a concert getting 
 ready to kill your target.
  
  At the bargained price of 17.99, I would recommend anyone with a powerful PC and an interest in 
 stealth games who can stomach some of the adult themes that make it a unique game of its genre 
 to definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andz5
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Reviewer's Version - PC
  
  I blasted through this game pretty quickly in 3 sittings of playing because I had this game on 
 rent and well I really only had 3 days. Anyway, Agent 47 is back another series of hitman and your 
 doing what he usually does and what he does best. Getting paid large sums of money to find somebody 
 in the a place your dropped off at and kill targets assigned with any extra they tell you do to. 
 
  
  The game play itself is pretty simple, and the AI can be either really dumb or really smart depending 
 on what difficulty you choose. Sneaking around and making guards not notice you just seems too 
 easy though. You can literally shoot down a million guards, and change out to another costume, 
 then hide in a closet until your threat meter goes down. And during the time your hiding in the 
 closet they will circle around the closet making you feel scared but never actually checking. (I 
 played rookie mode due to time I had with the game) But the game is very free about how you play 
 through your mission. You can either gun everybody down and have a bad rank that will affect your 
 other missions (which you can ALL run and gun for) or you can sneak around and be the silent assassin. 
 Its all really up to you, but if you mess up you would usually choose to run around gunning everything 
 down. You can complete the mission both ways and end up with a rank, so you won't regret anything 
 you do, although sometimes you wish you could've not been noticed or caught by the guards/CIA/secret 
 service/any type of guarding in the game. You have a few things at your disposal, although most 
 of the time you would usually use the famous fibre wire and your cold dead hands.
  
  The graphics are quite average for this present time, there have been better (Oblivion) . Its the 
 same engine as Tomb Raider and it looks pretty good. I had the graphics set on max for the entire 
 time and it was great.
  
  The sound is excellent as well, the gunfire sounds make the game very exciting in those  
 situations and makes the experience better.
  
  Overall, although this game is really good, it should've been a bit longer and not exactly worth 
 the buy. So I say rent it first, try it out, and if you like it that much that you want to play 
 it again you can do so. But for now, me and PC I'd call it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintdrug
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i play about 2 - 3 games a week, latest ones. with a job as an HP Sales manager 10 hours a 
 day , 2 kids, so how do i manage? well i am 'games' ..
  anyway, after a long time, here it comes again, hitman bloodmoney. i must say, the ads of the game 
 made me so much wanna play it, i had the game 29 of may (some people DO have connections) . gameplay 
 was good, when i started it, the help notes that come on top was pretty useful, but what makes 
 it good in hitman but hard, is it just tells u kill those two targets, a map and thats it! you 
 are on your own! to solve the mission u must think like a hitman, feel like him heck BE a hitman! 
 AI of the game is fairly good. i mean ok , blood is O. K guns weapons great, sniper, he doesnt stand 
 very still and u cant make him cut his breath for 3 seconds so its stables the scope view like 
 some other games.. u know..
  overall, i am excited, i am on the third mission, u need a good GPU card, i just got my new 7600GT! 
 575MHZ clock and 1600 RAM pretty good and not very expensive.. like the 7900GT 512MB, but problem 
 is that 7600GT comes only with 256MB, the good is, beats 7300GT and good price.
  OK, hitman, just wish there could be more tactical help, just a little more bits of it. but yes 
 i defenetly DO recommend it. it picks ur brain up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eladshustak
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 31, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  i'm a huge fan of the hitman series but i don't think that the last game is so good.
  it just can't be that u have all these weapons but basically your not allowed to fire a single 
 shot the whole game in order to be silent assassin.
  i still think the first game was the best when in order to finish the mission u just had to put 
 a good bullet in the targets head by your ballers or your sniper (which i didn't used once in blood 
 money unfortunately) .
  another example is when a target left its suitcase by me and i slipped a mine into it and blow 
 him out but at the end of the mission i didn't got silent assassin because they found c4 trace 
 , so i have to ask, why in the first place do u let me get to the suitcase? to see what's in it? 
 who care? i just wanted to blow him like the good old hitman used to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippobutt
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Truly the best Hitman ever. Great gameplay with open ended missions, and awesome graphics. But 
 overall the gameplay is lacking something, thought I can't put my finger on it.
  
  It keeps the same style of gameplay as the other games in the Hitmen series, but this time it has 
 also added a small twist. It integrates a new notoriety system, in which you can be witnessed as 
 you pull off you assasination crimes. But overall, the new feature leaves something to be desired.
 
  
  Quite a hard game, because of the open endedness, but once you get the hang of it, brutality is 
 just a click away!
  
  Any Hitman fan would be delighted to play, and any new comer would be stupified at the awe of the 
 game.
  
  A MUST BUY!
  
  Peace out,
  Me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decodergrizzly
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Hitman has always been a niche game, since the very first entry. I think its made for certain people 
 and those people look past the few technical problems that have always plagued the game and just 
 enjoy it for what it is. The fact is that there is no other game out there that lets you truly 
 live like an assassin and does it so well. Blood Money is definitely the best one yet and they 
 fixed a lot of the issues that the previous games had. The NPCs really act right for the most part 
 this time around, the AI is pretty stable, there really aren't random alarms (if they're shooting 
 at you, u must've done something wrong) . Amazing scenarios as always, better than ever ways to 
 carry out the objectives, incredible music as usual, gorgeous graphics finally, and brilliant idea 
 with the weapon customization. Great game and I'm really happy they pulled it off.
  
  (Play this on the PC for sure!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Ok i only Played the Demo, and there are tones of bugs, they even hav a patch for the demo? 
  
  I only hope the real game is ok and bug free,
  but apart from the bugs that put your frame 
 rate low,
  its a really gd game, i never played any of the hitman games b4, but it reminded me of max pain. 
 so if you like that sort of thing, def ha a look at this one
  
  the music is v. gd i. e. like the God Father style, very emotional when playing the game. 
  
 
  You need a gd Graphic Card to really enjoy this game. Geforce 6800 upwards or ATI card
  
  KitHooton (U. K) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mustafa_snake
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  the hitman series is one of the hardest strategy stealth game... well this sequel offcourse features 
 47 again with new killer moves and a whole lot of killing to do...
  
  gameplay- is the same not that there is anything wrong with.. still the good old strategy what to 
 do next type... i really love it even if the ai is little bit how can i say it overacting but its 
 all good...
  
  sound- sound is the same gory type depressing and mostly in the moment.. two thumbs up
  
  graphics- 
 well lets just say ive seen better
  
  story- nothing special... mostly killing is what counts hahahah
  
  for my final thought you 
 gotta buy this for all the stealth rpg type.. dont rent youll just spend hours of hours so you better 
 buy it.. two thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSane_Snake
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Hitman follows the tale of a clone assassin named Agent 47. 47 works for an agency of other hitmen. 
 The story follows how the agency assassins are being killed off. The game has a powerful conclusion 
 that will leave you in two distinct feelings (depending on if you trigger a secret in the games 
 final scene) . Hitman features twelve varied missions. They take place in Orchestral Theatres, Boats, 
 the Deep South, Mardi Gras, and others. In each mission, you are encouraged to make your kills 
 look like they happened by accident, like you were never there. These range from grills exploding 
 to hanging pianos falling onto a target. The graphics in this game are good. Nothing mind blowing, 
 but they are good to say the least. The sound in this game is not the best. Many of the voice overs 
 have a weird sound to them, as if the speaker is talking through a cardboard tube or something. 
 The gunshots in the game, however, do sound realistic and well done. The gameplay is where the 
 game really shines. As a Hitman, you must do anything to stay undercover. This includes killing 
 people and taking their clothes as a disguise. The AI of the NPC's in the game isn't the greatest. 
 Enemies will rush you, while you take a hail of gunfire. The sheer number of enemies will take 
 you down. Where the game really shows its AI weakness is in the Mardi Gras level. Although it is 
 an amazing level featuring hundreds of models on screen at once, the games AI suffers terribly. 
 When you shoot at people in Mardi Gras, they will not run. They will crouch, which takes away from 
 the games immersion. All and all, Hitman Blood Money is definitely the best in the series, recovering 
 from the failure that was Hitman Contracts. I would say to buy it if the series interests you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stickyfgz
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Blood Money is the fourth of the Hitman Series and maybe the last one too. I will not spoil anything 
 about the story but this one worth the time to be played.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The controls are almost the same as the other Hitman but the precision seems to be a little lame. 
 e. i : When you try to struggle a guy/girl with the fiber wire, sometimes it won't do anything so 
 the guy/girl will turn around and run away to tell the autority that you've tried to killed them 
 and will be easily now tracked. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Well graphics were pretty good at Ultra with my X800 ATI RADEON but the shadow was a little buggy. 
 The environnent is really impressive and wait to see the Mardi Gras's mission, you'll tell yourself 
How the hell does my graphics card or my console can handle all those peoples without lagging". 
 It's absolutly revolutionnary!
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is good. Seems to react and change when you notority is going crazy. Not much music but 
 when you enter some bar or place you can ear some cool techno ones.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Hitman Blood Money is definitly a must buy or rent or steal :P (Nah just joking) Try it out today 
 to see the special ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineterrorism
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  We see from the very start of this game that 47 is dead - he is layed out at his funeral in the 
 opening menu screens. The game takes place as Alexadner Leyland Cayne explains to a reporter the 
 events that lead to 47's death - the missions of the game therefore take place in the past, after 
 the events of Hitman 2. In one mission he has to rescue Agent Smith (who has appeared in all the 
 other games) by injecting him with a serum that makes him appear to be dead, and then reviving 
 him with an antidote later and rescuing him from a morgue. Soon after this is the Opera House mission 
 - at the end of this level we see someone with a gun following 47 off down the street, and this 
 is how he gets shot, leading to the events of Hitman : Contracts. The rest of the game takes place 
 after Contracts, but still in the past - 47 knows there are assassins after him, and tries to get 
 to the bottom of it. Along the way several attempts are made on his life, and eventually him and 
 Diana are all that is left of the agency. The trail eventually leads him to a Las Vegas party, 
 full of Assassins after him - Diana tells him this is the end, he should try to find out what he 
 can, but they won't be communicating again. 47 kills his rival assassins and escapes - Agent Smith 
 then asks him to take out an Assassin who is going to kill the President. 47 infiltrates the whitehouse 
 and faces off with his greatest rival assassin, 'The Albino'. Back at his hideout, Diana comes 
 to visit him - she explains that the building is surrounded by hundreds of SWAT members, but she 
 will help him escape - she hands him a briefing, but whike he is distracted reading it, she stabs 
 him in the back with a syringe. At the end, we see 47 dead at his funeral - Diana puts some lipbalm 
 on, kisses him and walks away. The credits then begin to roll - however, if you start to hammer 
 the controls, 47 begins to wake up - the syringe Diana injected him with was the same as the one 
 47 used on Agent Smith, and her lip balm contained the antidote. 47 wakes up and slaughters everyone 
 at his funeral, including Cayne and the reporter, leaving no witnesses.
  
  Above all, I recommend this game and certainly can't wait till Hitman 5 develops! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the best hitman game ever created. Fans of the game like myself will enjoy 
 the game immensely and if you're new to the hitman series you're in for a real treat.
  
  Lets hit up the cons of this game before we go into the good parts. There are not as many weapons 
 in this game compared to previous ones but there are new ones that you can pick up that are new 
 to the series. Less emphasis on using sniper rifles and assault rifles compared to Contracts and 
 Silent Assassin and some parts of the game are glitchy and graphics aren't as nice as they could 
 be for Agent 47's debut in this gen.
  
  Now the good parts. Better storyline than previous games that leaves you guessing for the most 
 part and even though there are few cutscenes the voices and cinematics are of good quality. More 
 emphasis placed on actually being the Silent Assassin compared to previous games where many levels 
 turned into a romp around. Better enviroments and more interactive enviroments. More intriguing 
 missions along with a vast array of upgrades for your weapons.
  
  Overall I will say this is a very good game and is my favorite Hitman game next to Silent Assassin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_louis
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  If you like the other 3 Hitmans buy this one, it's worth it. The story is simply unique. Everyone 
 should play (18+) . Still the same good Hitman genre, but with some new twist, weapons and graphics. 
 Mission have more differents approchs and more people are around to complicate the assasination. 
 Really harder to play as a shooter and simply kill anything that move. The only thing I didn't 
 like was that ther is not one single mission where the sniper could be usefull. The weapons are 
 nicely designed and the upgrade are really worth it. But at the end weapons are a bit too strong 
 (I use my handgun as a sniper) and some are a bit too much, like the shotgun with a silencer!!! 
 But over all it's really a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _sander
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Yep, the best, visually as well as gameplay wise. 
  
  First, there are lots of new and interesting ways yo take out your targets. For example, you can 
 push your victims over high edges, strangle them from lift hatches or do it old-school by putting 
 a bullet from your silenced silverballer into your targets head. There are just tons of different 
 ways to do that, the choice is all yours. Besides that, you can hide the dead or unconscious bodies 
 in different kind of containers or throw them over edges (on a ship, through the window etc) .
 
  
  The visuals are definetly superior to any previous Hitman game (well, thats obvious) . There are 
 also many render options you can play with, such as antialiasing, shadows, detail level and so 
 on. Whats most impressive, is that somehow the developers managed to bring HUNDREDS of NPCs into 
 one place without cousing any laga at all. Good examples are the carneval mission (hundreds of 
 people walking on the street) and the nightclub mission (lots of people raving in a underground 
 nightclub) . Thats something other developers should really learn as well.
  
  As for the controls and overall gameplay, its quite similar or almost identical to its prequels. 
 So old Hitmans will have no problem playing the new Hitman :-) . 
  
  Overall, its a great game and a must if you are a Hitman fanboy or just looking for a good stealth-action 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatSeeJay
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  I was actually doubting this latest addition to the series.
  I have hard getting why someone would want to go on a killingspree for a fourth time.
  After 
 playing the game I can say that I would.
  
  The numerous ways of taking out the targets makes this game incredibly amusing and at the same 
 time very confusing since not all targets really deserves it.
  
  I had a real hard time taking out the Swing King since I never went under the oppinion that he 
 deserved to die after what he has suffered through over the aftermath of the accident. But hey 
 it made a nice addition to the cold blooded killer that he really is.
  
  I really love the fact that you are on the contract type again earning money depending on how mutch 
 attention you drew to yourself.
  Makes on think twice before pulling up the baller and blow the victims brains all over the wall. 
 
  
  I went through the game with a sence of satisfaction and a sadistic smile on my mouth. 
  
  
 Great work IOI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sKz-
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  What can I say:
  
  Firstly the story a non linear story making many paths within the game to take down your targets, 
 plus new cool moves from pushing to headbutting cilivians to enemies. The game holds much of a 
 cinematic style with its great use of voice over actors and cut aways scenes within the gameplay 
 itself.
  
  The appearance: Well certainly with out saying they've Lo Intertactive have come along way since 
 the first Hitman (Codename 47) the graphic engien used in this game has brought more realism into 
 gameplay from better character models of hitman himself to others around him, not only this attention 
 to detail of levels has been created, this goes without sounding the sound also adds to the visual 
 perspective with the use of environment sounds to the brillant score of Jesper Kyd added to the 
 suspense of a silent assasain taking on his job from each mission it creates a element of surpise 
 and tension.
  
  Overall the games feel is great and certainly worht the wait, however I feel there are a few problems 
 when it coems down to the gameplay such as the Ai still not as lfelike if it was set within places 
 where you can't go and where a game character can go and reactions are a bit slow at time from 
 enemy. Also a few sound glitchs I have noticed at times where you can't hear the sound of characters, 
 or music is overlayed the characters to hear the interaction of cut-scenes.
  
  This in mind though i would say is certainly the best hitman of the series yet, and with that in 
 mind, I'm sure we can see some more thrill's and kill in the future from Mr 47.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  47 strikes the fourth time in Blood Money  the newest game in the Hitman universe. Its just 
 perfect. They have cranked up all the features  the sound, the graphics, the gameplay If youre 
 a fan of stealth games, this is a must-get. The game gets you in after a few minutes of gameplay. 
 You definitely wont be disappointed with it.
  
  The first thing that you notice when opening the game is the main menu music. Ave Maria suits 
 the game perfectly. Even if you dont like classical music too much, youll love this one. Thats 
 not the only track, of course. Some levels have specific music. Also, it changes once your cover 
 is blown. That way you can know everything just by the sounds. Like I said, they have improved 
 the graphics as well. Blood Money uses a completely new graphics engine, thus it has the best visuals 
 in the series. Theres bump mapping, specular mapping, parallax mapping, and all the new graphics 
 stuff. Youll need a pretty good computer to take the most out of the game, though. If you have 
 an old graphics card, Id recommend you to upgrade. Ive had a GeForce FX 5900XT a couple of days 
 ago, before upgrading to a GeForce 6800GS. Although it met the minimum requirements, the game lagged 
 a lot  in places crowded with NPCs, and even in the game menu (I was playing with the lowest settings) !
 
  
  The first mission in the game is a tutorial mission. It shows you the basics of the game - how 
 to control 47, sneak, shoot, take out opponents, etc. There are totally thirteen missions. Each 
 one is fun and different from the others. You get to visit a Rehab Clinic, a Vineyard, a Casino 
 in Las Vegas, and more. If you want to practice aiming, you can always visit the hideout. There 
 are bottles and other targets for you to practice shooting on. Every mission takes time to complete, 
 especially if youre going for a Silent Assassin mission rating.
  
  Yes, rating. After every mission (except the tutorial one) , a screen pops up showing the mission 
 stats  how many people were killed, how many accidents happened, etc. At the end of the screen, 
 theres a mission rating. The best you can get is Silent Assassin. If you got this one, you did 
 the mission very well  you werent spotted, didnt leave any witnesses, and didnt use any aggression. 
 You do NOT have to get the Silent Assassin rating to pass a mission and unlock the next one. 
 However, the worse your rating is, the less money you will get. You need money to buy weapon upgrades, 
 and lower your notoriety by bribing civilians, or cops. Weapon upgrading is new to the series. 
 You cant upgrade all the weapons  only some of them. You get to buy silencers, laser aim, and 
 more. There are some misc-equipment upgrades, too  you can buy painkillers, suit that takes less 
 damage, etc. If youre playing the game very stealthy, you dont need the upgrades too much. They 
 are fun to try, at least, though.
  
  There are a lot of weapons in Blood Money  sniper rifles, Sub-Machine guns, shotguns, rifles, 
 pistols, and more. You can equip them before a mission, if you want. You always get the standart 
 equipment, too. That includes the fiber-wire, night vision goggles, lock-picks, binoculars, a coin, 
 and some more. Sounds funny, but yes, you get a coin. Its very useful when creating diversions. 
 Throw one near an enemy, and he will go investigate, making it easy for you to get behind.
  
  In your heads-up display, theres a Health bar and a Tension Meter. If an enemy gets suspicious 
 in you, the bar starts filling up. Keep your distance, hide all the bodies in safe places, dont 
 carry guns, and you shouldnt have much trouble.
  
  Enemies notice dead bodies. If they see any traces of murder, they become suspicious. However, 
 if you dont leave any traces, they wont bite. How not to leave any? Make things look like accidents. 
 For example, you can punch people that are close to railings and theyll fall. Same thing while 
 theyre going downstairs. You can plant charges, i. e., on lamps, and theyll fall on NPCs that 
 are below. Enemies wont suspect you doing that.
  
  In most missions, youll have to eliminate a target. Hes your main objective. There are so many 
 ways to do it! Thats the thing I love about the game  the FREEDOM. Not many games have it. Hitman 
 Blood Money is very non-linear, although it doesnt look so after you pass the demo. The demo level 
 is the most linear level in the game, without a doubt. While youre in a mission, you can access 
 a map. It shows positions of civilians, enemies, elevators, and, of course, the position of targets. 
 There are some points marked with exclamation marks, too. If you get to them, you can find some 
 useful things there.
  
  You can interact with the environment a lot. For example, if you have an NPC eliminated, you can 
 hide him in a box. Open the lid, and throw it in  others wont notice (of course, if theres someone 
 nearby looking at you, he will) . Like I already said, you can throw bodies over railings, too. 
 You can also climb pipes, and mantle on some objects. If someone is chasing you, you can quickly 
 get into a closet. After some time, theyll get bored and go away. Unlike in Splinter Cell, you 
 dont have to use shadows to pass the game. Disguises are the key here. By getting one, you can 
 go to places youre not allowed to. I. e., grab a security guard uniform, and youll be able to 
 go all around the buildings. Disguises also make it easy for you to get to targets without a risk.
 
  
  Blood Money is a superb game. Its simply the best in the series. I really recommend the game to 
 all stealth / action fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  This game is made for the people who likes movies and crime.... this game is for you who want a 
 thinking game and fun to play it again and again.
  
  The Good: This 4th part of the Hitman series finally made something new with the graphics engine 
 and the whole game hud and style... The Graphics does look very good and the game runs smooth on 
 it... The AI I don't know its maybe good but I think it could be better..
  
  The Bad: I mean this game got everything right but still the AI doesn't make my day... the sound 
 isn't that nice and the most of the weapons is very accurate so thats a little bit dissapointing... and 
 another thing is that the story is away too short... the hitman missions used takes 1-2 hours on 
 hard but this one takes only 30 min and you are done with one of twelve missions and there is not 
 many missions to choose from when you wanna play again...
  
  Overall: This game is defenetly worth everything you pay for it the money and the time... the waiting 
 maybe was too long but still its worth it.... Hitman Blood Money is the best game in series.... so 
 come on folks get out there and get it.... this must be yours.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xd3usx
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 30, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  New game, same as it ever was. 
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is basically the same game you're all used to, with polish. The graphics are 
 nothing special here, even with everything on max the hardest thing your card will be pushing are 
 the self shadows. Other than that the game looks pretty Direct-X 7 generation. What really makes 
 this game feel old is when a body becomes unconscious or dead, it's instantly a rag doll. This 
 means that their arms and legs will twist in ways that just are not physically possible. Rag doll 
 physics by itself is dated, much like this game engine, there are far better technologies out there 
 that came out years ago.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the gameplay here is fun. The multiple ways of assassinating people mixed with 
 a perfect assassin rating can be very gratifying. It also makes for a reasonable amount of replay 
 value as you tend to want to try all the different assassination possibilities. About mid-way through 
 the game, though, the innovation disappears and your left with nothing more than larger levels 
 and more people. Here and there you'll notice something new but without a doubt the first few levels 
 are the most fun.
  
  Some weapons in this game sound like toys. There are very few guns in Blood Money that actually 
 sound like their real-life counterparts. It's a hit-and-miss on the sound, almost as if two departments 
 were working on it and only one knew what they were doing.
  
  This game is perfect if you've never played or owned a Hitman game. On the other hand, if you have, 
 you're not going to find Blood Money as having anything excitingly new to offer. I suggest waiting 
 on the price to fall, it'll be on the shelf for $19.95 before you know it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_x_ray
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is one of those games that no one should refuse playing it... the game is great... 
 after the last two unsuccessful hitman , this one is just amazing and make u feel like a real Hitman 
 ... the graphic is improved much better than other hitmans and of course its satisfying ... the 
 sound is great too ... the gameplay is improved too ... Levels are different from eachother and 
 each one is perfect ... nothing makes u so proud of urself than seeing ur rating at the end of 
 a level as a HITMAN ... Upgrade section in the game is just perfect and u can improve ur pistol 
 or rifle and so on just the way u like... and it sounds good ... i think Eidos proved with its 
 two latest released game (Hitman & Tomb Raider) that it can make great games just like before and 
 even better ones... h Hope to be this way .... every gamer should try this one ... even u ... believe 
 me .... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X382GAJ
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 29, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I will make this as brief as possible.
  
  The game play is reasonable, when you first play any level you will be stunned by how open it looks, 
 but after a few trys you begin to see how it works and you can mentally plan out each entry and 
 attack. You can get a professional ranking on each level after 5 or so attempts. 
  AI should have being more randomized; instead you get the same reaction from the same person each 
 time you do something.
  (Too Predictable)
  
  As for the amount of weapons, I havent yet had the time to count, but its safe to say that the 
 amount of guns is certainly above average, In my own opinion it could do with a few more but it 
 will do. 
  On the other hand, non firearm weapons seem to be unvaried and just as unimaginative. So far, I 
 have come across a nail gun, knife and one incident where I threw a toolbox at a guard (And it 
 passed right through them o. o)
  (Plenty of guns-but not much else)
  
  The missions are quite imaginative and will certainly test your creativity (so long as you only 
 play them once or twice) you will encounter some of the most colorful faces from all around. Im 
 very happy with the locations they have chosen, although some make you feel awfully boxed in.
 
  (Iconic in places, Sparse in others)
  
  As for the graphics, Im using an NVIDIA XFX 6800 256MB PCI-E and I can turn everything to the 
 max, It has more artifacts than the temple of Anubis, Hard shadows are soft, soft shadows are hard. 
 From what I can tell, it used full HDR, and lets me use AA but I could be wrong, it may be using 
 bloom.
  (Great graphics... If you squint)
  
  As for audio, aside from a few jitters and irregular volume changes the audio is unmatched, a very 
 nice musical score. Although they could have tried to make it turn on in the right place. I dont 
 want loud dramatic music when Im getting changed in the toilets. Just as much, I dont want calm 
 serine music when Im being gunned down in a crowded street.
  (Great quality- Try to aim it better next time)
  
  Overall, if you rent this game, you will 
 be able to overlook the flaws, but if however you buy the game. You will be wishing they would 
 make a patch for all those errors (I get about 2 each level, which erases my save history from 
 that level) 
  
  I recommend you play the demo, and before you buy look VERY closely, and see if you are willing 
 to put up with its flaws (pay special attention to the sniper when you zoom in)
  
  Hope this helped, overall its a great game, if only it didnt have all those flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joereid86
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  What can I say:
  
  Firstly the story a non linear story making many paths within the game to take down your targets, 
 plus new cool moves from pushing to headbutting cilivians to enemies. The game holds much of a 
 cinematic style with its great use of voice over actors and cut aways scenes within the gameplay 
 itself.
  
  The appearance: Well certainly with out saying they've Lo Intertactive have come along way since 
 the first Hitman (Codename 47) the graphic engien used in this game has brought more realism into 
 gameplay from better character models of hitman himself to others around him, not only this attention 
 to detail of levels has been created, this goes without sounding the sound also adds to the visual 
 perspective with the use of environment sounds to the brillant score of Jesper Kyd added to the 
 suspense of a silent assasain taking on his job from each mission it creates a element of surpise 
 and tension.
  
  Overall the games feel is great and certainly worht the wait, however I feel there are a few problems 
 when it coems down to the gameplay such as the Ai still not as lfelike if it was set within places 
 where you can't go and where a game character can go and reactions are a bit slow at time from 
 enemy. Also a few sound glitchs I have noticed at times where you can't hear the sound of characters, 
 or music is overlayed the characters to hear the interaction of cut-scenes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin_Q_Blanc
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since the beginning and when i recieved and installed it i just 
 couldnt wait i was bouncing in my chair... This is quite simply the BEST i have ever played in the 
 Hitman series and quite possibly one the best i have ever played... This game beats other games 
 which have tried to make you a stone cold killer... its got something extra which gives it the edge... The 
 idea of changing your colour of your camoflauge in Snake eater was a good idea and the whole blending 
 in thing... but no one can blend in better than Agent 47. The Thing that makes this game better 
 than the others is that it allows you to play it over and over again and you can always make it 
 differant... I Love the idea of being able to customize you weapons so you can adjust recoil or 
 silence... or practicarly whatever you want... You can go into one mission and blow everyones heads 
 off or if that doesnt satisfy you and you want to be more "poetic" you can use disguise and surprise 
 and silently eliminate your targets. I have not played another game since ive had this and im surposed 
 to be revising for my GCSEs hell im not saying its a smart thing to do but its extremely addictive 
 so i think the smart idea would be to buy it after exams so you'll revise... hope ive swayed you 
 to buy this fantastic game... and this truly is The best so far... Cant Wait to see what they have 
 instore next... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 28, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  Hitman 1,2,3 were great games but they did have there faults. Like getting caught when you didnt 
 even do anything wrong or the fact you could climb things. This new game however they have listened 
 to the faults the last game had and cleaned it up. Now you can walk down a hallway without being 
 shot at, climb to things you want to go to, and kill like an assasin would. Graphics are totally 
 amazing i think this is one of the prettiest games i've seen, great lighting effects are one of 
 the stand out points. The 3rd game felt abit like and expansion on the 2nd game, this one however 
 you can do loads more and it has far more depth. You can upgrade your weapons for example the hardballers 
 at the start you only start off with one, its loud and not very stealth effective. But do well 
 in your missions and you earn more money and you can use the money to buy upgrade. There are loads 
 of things to upgrade on them too you can have duel ballers attach laser sightings on the gun add 
 a silencer, longer barrel more powerful bullets (you can buy bullets that can go threw walls and 
 doors) . All these upgrades make your life alot easier. But its not just that you can buy body armour 
 to give you that little bit more help. There are loads of things and this gives the series a breath 
 of fresh air. 47 has loads more killing moves you can now use hand to hand to knock people out 
 you can throw them off balconys stuff the bodys in bins. Stealth kills are great fun too. If there 
 is a guy in an elevator you can use your fiber wire and pull them up the elevator shaft (Leon style) . 
 There is also a strong plot line this time too (which i felt there never really was a story to 
 the otheres) it isnt a metal gear beater but it is gripping. Overall this game is amazing great 
 graphics totally upgraded gameplay and a good story make for a killing game. buy it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuthbertbill05
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the best hitman in the series. grahics are great game runs smooth and the story is 
 very detailed if you are a fan of the hitman games you need to get this game. theres a whole load 
 of new ways of attacking now you can use melee attacks you can grab peopel to use as a sheild .you 
 can even simply push some one where u want i. e. over a balcony the newspaer headlines at the end 
 of the levels are also intresting.
  theres a great selection of weapons plus you can now upgrade your weapons from the money youve 
 gained from missions. the ai is smarter on this game too. one of the most amazing levels is mardi 
 gras where there are hundreds of charecters on screen at once as you make your way through the 
 crowds plus amazingley it doesent slow down your computer. the story is great too as i said before 
 if you like any of the hitman games this is for you its the best hitman game yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanchan68
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Regardless of what the reviewers and other say and rate the latest game of Hitman, personally, 
 I LOVED it. I have been a fan for MGS and SC series, but I find that Hitman is more live like and 
 realistic than MGS and SC. Not that I am saying Hitman is better, but Hitman adds a different dimension 
 to the genre. It is more to do with civilians' affairs than military operations and i do think 
 it is only Hitman that can fill that gap in the market. The likes of mission impossible, syphon 
 filters, manhunt, tomb raider and the lot simply just do not have a 'feel' and sense of being an 
 'assassin'. All in all, things like hiding in sand are just different form of stealth but I would 
 think the idea of changing identity in Hitman is even more intelligent and have more twist. I would 
 say if Hitman can be more gore (violence and blood) in it, it would be the best game of the year 
 for me!
  
  My rating of the game its 9.5 out of 10. The 0.5 left is to encouraging the developer for future 
 'progression' of the game and not saying the existing has any problems. What a fabulous game!!
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
