-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hitman 2: Silent Assassin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hitman2silentassassin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.5, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,683 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Io Interactive
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 1, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hitman 2 fixes virtually all of the problems of its predecessor and stands tall on its own merits 
 as an outstanding action game. 

 There's no mistaking what Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is all about. One look at the bald, sharply 
 dressed man on the cover, grim as death and armed with a hardballer pistol in each hand, and you 
 can tell that this isn't exactly lighthearted stuff. Hitman 2, released simultaneously for the 
 PC, Xbox, and PlayStation 2 platforms, is the sequel to a PC game released two years ago by Denmark-based 
 developer IO Interactive. The original Hitman: Codename 47 featured some undeniably impressive 
 technical elements, but it also had a number of serious problems. Some players were able to overcome 
 the control issues and punishing difficulty level of the game and appreciated it on the strength 
 of its violent concept -- you played as a genetically engineered contract killer and were tasked 
 with stealthily eliminating a number of well-guarded targets. At its best, the game offered both 
 full-on intense action as well as plenty of nail-biting suspense. The sequel takes this same idea 
 a step further and fully realizes it, proving that IO Interactive has the ability to back up flashy 
 graphics and controversial subject matter with great gameplay. Simply put, Hitman 2 fixes virtually 
 all of the problems of its predecessor and stands tall on its own merits as an outstanding action 
 game.           As 47, you'll be charged with a number of high-risk assassination assignments. 
    

 Those who never played the original Hitman already know all the background on Hitman 2 that they'll 
 really need. The game begins with the enigmatic man known only as 47 working not as a hired gun 
 but as a gardener. He's given up his violent ways and is now serving as a humble groundskeeper 
 in a Sicilian church. But when the church's kindly minister is kidnapped, 47 has no choice but 
 to once again don his black suit and unpack his deadly arsenal of firearms and close-range weapons. 
 He contacts his former employer to try to track down the priest, but he'll need to perform a few 
 jobs before they'll cough up any details on his friend's whereabouts. So much for early retirement. 
 Yet though the story unfolds vividly using beautifully staged cinematic cutscenes rendered using 
 the game's 3D engine, the actual story of Hitman 2 doesn't really get too far off the ground. It's 
 largely an excuse to send 47 around the world to exotic locations like Japan, Russia, Malaysia, 
 and India, where you'll help him infiltrate heavily fortified locations from an ancient castle 
 to a high-tech software corporation.   

  The game comprises more than 20 missions in all, which you'll play through one after the other. 
 Though the settings and the details of each mission are different, most all of them share some 
 basic themes: getting in, eliminating a key target, and getting out. How you meet your objective 
 is up to you, whether by guile and stealth or by brute force, and most missions are cleverly designed 
 to have at least several viable, even intuitive solutions. If you're really good, you can make 
 it through most missions leaving only a single corpse behind -- the only one that matters -- and you 
 can make it through having never even drawn a firearm. If that's too subtle for you, you can opt 
 to try to mow down anyone who stands between you and your victim. But you'll need to be careful, 
 because your primary target might flee the scene amid whatever turmoil you cause.   

  Actually, one of the big differences between Hitman 2 and its predecessor is that, for various 
 reasons, a forceful approach is much more viable in the sequel. At the normal difficulty setting, 
 it's in fact much easier, and much faster, to just blast your way through most missions, partly 
 because your enemies just aren't that smart in a shootout, though they can overwhelm you in numbers. 
 Nevertheless, the game still encourages you to be stealthy, and you'll have to be at the game's 
 two higher difficulty settings. Regardless of how you play, the fact that you can just start shooting 
 if you blow your cover will lead to many thrilling, unscripted gunfights against large groups of 
 foes that look realistic and often act realistically too.           A frontal assault can be effective 
 if you catch your foes by surprise.    

 As 47, you have access to the sorts of moves and weaponry that you'd perhaps expect from a character 
 of his nature. You'll get to see 47 ply his deadly trade from a default third-person perspective, 
 though the developers added an optional first-person view as well. That's a nice touch, but still, 
 it's hard to pass up the third-person option, since it gives you a clear look at all of 47's lifelike 
 animations and gives you some good peripheral vision too. While 47 has no hand-to-hand combat moves, 
 he can take out foes at close range by slashing their throats in one quick motion, strangling them 
 with his trusty fiber wire, or knocking them out with chloroform -- an uncharacteristically humane 
 addition to 47's arsenal. Melee weapons ranging from a golf club to a katana are also available, 
 as well as a massive variety of real-world firearms. All manner of pistols, shotguns, submachine 
 guns, assault rifles, and sniper rifles can be found and used, and as you scavenge new weapons 
 from your missions, you'll find them lovingly displayed as new additions to your collection back 
 at your inconspicuous base out of Sicily. While you can then select which weapons to bring with 
 you on a new assignment, you can't just lug everything around. In particular, you can only carry 
 a single rifle at a time, and these bulky weapons can't be concealed.   

  Concealment, of course, is critical to 47's success. As in the first Hitman, in the sequel you 
 can relieve just about any killed (or unconscious) male character of his clothing and drag prone 
 bodies out of sight. Donning disguises is handled as strangely as before, meaning one moment you'll 
 be wearing your original outfit and then, moments after selecting the "change clothes" command, 
 you're suddenly wearing a new one as the old one appears neatly folded on the ground. In a game 
 that's generally so believable, this aspect of Hitman 2 comes across as a bit silly -- but the fact 
 that you don't have to spend hours looking for a victim who wears the same size of pants that 47 
 does certainly helps the gameplay. At any rate, unlike in the original, in Hitman 2 there's more 
 to concealment than just putting on a disguise and then having free rein to walk among your enemies. 
 When the 6-foot, pale-skinned 47 tries to blend in with the locals in India, you'd best believe 
 he'll have to do more than just put on a turban. Generally, you need to stay relatively far away 
 from most passersby if you want your disguise to work, and you need to act casually.     

 This creates some tense situations. Enemy guards will eye you warily and may decide to confront 
 you if you're acting strangely. Their cold stares will often leave you feeling unsettled as you 
 try to walk -- not run -- through an enemy-infested area as quickly as you can. Yes, 47 can run tirelessly, 
 but doing so generates noise and also rouses a lot of suspicion, making running impractical for 
 most situations requiring stealth. Fortunately, 47 can also walk, sneak, and crawl. Sneaking and 
 crawling are silent, and 47 can aim sniper rifles more steadily from a crouched position. The thing 
 is, these other means of movement can seem excruciatingly slow compared with running, and realistic 
 though this may be, you'll have to practice a lot before you can successfully sneak up behind an 
 opponent.           Hitman 2 features a dazzling variety of weapons.    

 The game does a pretty good job of teaching and explaining all the control mechanics to you early 
 on and in the context of the story -- see, 47's employer wants to make sure he hasn't gotten rusty 
 and so offers him a quick refresher course. The fact that most of Hitman 2's controls will be instantly 
 accessible to anyone who's played any recent shooter speaks to how greatly the designers have improved 
 the sequel's controls since the original. Suffice it to say that all the original game's control 
 problems are gone and that Hitman 2 basically controls just like your typical first-person shooter. 
 The main difference is in the presence of an easy-to-use context-sensitive menu, which lets you 
 do things like pick locks, put on disguises, climb through windows, grab useful items, and so on. 
   

  The original game's extremely steep learning curve isn't nearly as insurmountable in the sequel, 
 since at normal difficulty, 47 can sustain massive amounts of damage (thanks to good old genetic 
 engineering) and can still finish most missions if he blows his cover. Also, the fact that you 
 can save your progress during missions certainly helps: Seven saves are available per mission at 
 normal difficulty and two at expert, though none are available at professional, the toughest setting. 
 The professional setting offers an additional challenge in that the real-time area map you have 
 constant access to will not reveal enemy positions, whereas on normal and expert, you'll see incoming 
 enemies as blips on this screen. Also, aiming is noticeably more erratic at the two tougher settings -- you'll 
 need to manually compensate for your weapons' recoil, which actually makes the weapons seem to 
 pack more of a punch. At any rate, between the multiple difficulty settings and the game's end-of-mission 
 ranking system that rewards you for staying stealthy, and of course the inherently open-ended design 
 of the missions, you may find that Hitman 2 has a lot more longevity than most other single-player 
 action games these days.   

  Hitman 2 certainly looks superb, on every platform. Sure enough, the game looks its best on a high-end 
 PC, though the Xbox version is about as good, and the PlayStation 2 version also looks great. While 
 the game does look similar in many ways to its predecessor, its slick, polished graphical presentation 
 stands up to the very best of what the genre has to offer. Crisp, colorful textures are used to 
 bring both the game's indoor and outdoor settings to life, though textures in the outdoor environments 
 can seem a bit repetitive. Weapons are all rendered with meticulous detail, down to alternate reload 
 animations depending on whether you're playing from the third-person or first-person view. You 
 also won't see a great deal of variety in the character models in each level, though all characters 
 are motion-captured to lifelike perfection. You'll appreciate that many of the characters in the 
 game do have a distinctly unique appearance, and you'll really enjoy the game's stylish cutscenes, 
 which often take the form of surveillance footage taken of 47's targets. In one remarkable mission, 
 you'll have nothing to go on but an old black and white video of the target as a young child.  

  Yet perhaps the most notable aspect of Hitman 2's graphics is its use of what's now commonly known 
 as "rag doll physics," meaning that characters don't die in any prescripted fashion, but rather 
 go limp as they're struck by the simulated force of your firepower. Sometimes this effect is amazing, 
 like when you blast a ninja from out of the rafters and watch him tumble to the ground or when 
 you take out an enemy sniper and see him slump dead over a railing. At other times, the rag doll 
 effect lives up to its name, and you'll see a foe go flopping end over end in a manner that's more 
 comical than anything else. All in all, it's still a very cool effect, though those who played 
 the original Hitman might wish that it were refined more for the sequel.           The game's exotic 
 settings are large and detailed.    

 Sure enough, Hitman 2 sounds as impressive as it looks. The jarringly loud and clear report of each 
 of the game's various firearms is very convincing, and characters all speak in their native languages -- though 
 if you start shooting, you'll start to hear innocents uttering the same cries for help over and 
 over. The voice acting in Hitman 2 is generally solid, and 47's voice in particular, with its slight 
 European accent, is particularly good and much improved from his voice in the original. But the 
 music is probably the highlight of the audio presentation. Featuring a booming original soundtrack, 
 parts of which were performed by the Budapest Symphony Orchestra, Hitman 2's music effectively 
 underscores the action and also weaves in some cultural themes that help establish each new setting. 
 And the way the music fades to a soft, ominous tone after you assassinate your target in each mission 
 may send shivers down your spine.   

  Hitman 2 is exceptionally well done in most every way and represents a major improvement over the 
 original. A true multiplatform game, it wasn't developed for the lowest common denominator, but 
 it instead showcases the best of what the PC, Xbox, and PlayStation 2 have to offer, as though 
 the game were specifically designed for each. Clearly, many of the design decisions made by IO 
 Interactive were directly in response to common criticisms leveled against the original, but these 
 improvements don't come at the cost of a simpler or easier experience. Even the most experienced 
 gamers will find a serious, rewarding challenge in the game's highest difficulty mode, yet the 
 well-rounded design of Hitman 2 means just about anyone with a taste for the subject matter, or 
 just a stomach for it, will really like the game and its distinctively cinematic style.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (95 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jlo6687
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  One of the few game that i liked in this world. best graphics, story.............
  when I first played it this game made me to play it continuously for more than 2 hours daily. considering 
 the configuration of my computer at that time this was having the best graphics i have seen. also 
 i forgot to mention this was the first hitman series game i played and i think being only the 2nd 
 version game is very impressive .
  i seriously recommend this game to all those love hitman movie. i have played all three hitman 
 1,2,3 .and i will take this as the best among them . i still have to lay my hands on the game blood 
 money surely hope hitman 4 will be even cooler than all other three. 
  ending of the hitman 2 is impressive. also the Introduction cutscene was too good for a game like 
 hitman . I personally will give a 10/10 for all the hitman series especially for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmansBullet
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  With very original and solid gameplay Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is one of the classics of 2002. 
 
  ...
  
  
  It all started with Codename 47, we all had high expectations and when it came out it turned out 
 broken. If the danish publisher/developer hadnt did this tiny mistake Iam sure Hitman would be 
 a much popular series than today. Hitman 2 on the other hand shows the game I think they had in 
 their mind in the first place and can easily replace you`re little bitter first impression of Codename 
 47 (if you ever played that game) . Sure the game has some minor issues like the almost "oversensetive 
 dragdoll system", the VERY unstable sniper sight and the to times very annoying music.
  
  Although you dont like the story, the music, the graphics (which actually was very good for its 
 age) , but still have a little dream of being a cold-blooded assassin look no further... This might 
 be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shape-shiffter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  The name speaks for itself Hit man is a true hitt!! I was blown away by the reality of the game 
 play! I mean i is so easy to die. there is no health packs no over shield no not thing and for 
 the first time that great GREAT!!!!!!!!! 
  Hit man can be ranked with some all time greats straightforward conversion of one of the greatest 
 action games for the Sony PlayStation console. this game is worth the time and money i put into 
 it. it totaly rocks Don't wait any longer go out there and play hit man 
  
  *S. S) * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakanadin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is a MAJOR improvement on Hitman: Codename 47 adding the feature of 3rd 
 person, more weapons, very updated graphics, and easier game play. The Pro's are seemingly infinite 
 to me. As well as MAYBE a few cons here and there...
  
  Pro's: AWESOME replay value to me, the Basement Killing level is the best to go on killing sprees 
 on ^.^. Awesome plot that hints that there is going to be a sequel, many weapons that are fun and 
 practical to use. Challenging to get a stealthy rating, making you try to and try harder. Etc...
 
  
  Con's: The only thing I find wrong with this game, is the fact that there aren't any more levels 
 to it! I loved it so much, and want more levels that you can go on killing spree's on.
  
  All in all, I give Hitman 2: Silent Assassin on a scale of 1-10, a 9.5/10, for its great replay 
 value, awesome plot with a few characters you will like (The Mystery Hitman ^.^) and a few you 
 won't like (The generals) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperB56
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't want to play a hitman game. This has such a simple storyline, but it was still so good! 
 The Graphics are Terrific. They are so specific that on the back of Agent 47's head you are able 
 to see a tattoo. Also there are masterly designed environments that give it such peaceful bu dark 
 look all in one area. You also have been given a mode that every gamer has dreamt for. Stealing 
 uniforms, weapons... Oh yeah! the weapons are beautifully designed and there is such a wide variety 
 of weapons. You may use weapons such as axes, scapels, katana swords, kitchen knifes and many, many 
 more. If you want to become the greatest gamer ever. You must get this game! Also I suggest getting 
 a couple of the sequels like Blood Money. In blood money unlike this game you are able to use melee. 
 If grand theft auto was not around this game would definately take its place. Thank you Eidos for 
 giving us such a beautifully crafted video game! Get this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n7e19
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  There's no mistaking what Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is all about. One look at the bald, sharply 
 dressed man on the cover, grim as death and armed with a hardballer pistol in each hand, and you 
 can tell that this isn't exactly lighthearted stuff. Hitman 2, released simultaneously for the 
 PC, Xbox, and PlayStation 2 platforms, is the sequel to a PC game released two years ago by Denmark-based 
 developer IO Interactive. The original Hitman: Codename 47 featured some undeniably impressive 
 technical elements, but it also had a number of serious problems. Some players were able to overcome 
 the control issues and punishing difficulty level of the game and appreciated it on the strength 
 of its violent concept -- you played as a genetically engineered contract killer and were tasked 
 with stealthily eliminating a number of well-guarded targets. At its best, the game offered both 
 full-on intense action as well as plenty of nail-biting suspense. The sequel takes this same idea 
 a step further and fully realizes it, proving that IO Interactive has the ability to back up flashy 
 graphics and controversial subject matter with great gameplay. Simply put, Hitman 2 fixes virtually 
 all of the problems of its predecessor and stands tall on its own merits as an outstanding action 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  May 9th 2008
  Part of a review 'triology' encompassing the 3 Hitman titles within the recently released Hitman 
 Trilogy package.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  To be honest, there's not much to say about Hitman 2 Silent Assassin, other than the fact that 
 it's a Hitman game. That fact in itself is a boon to 
  gamers, but also a curse. You see, like the Hitman game before it, Silent Assassin is full of heart-pounding 
 moments, cool assassinations, and a sense of satisfaction upon completing the missions. However, 
 beyond these welcome traits, its also chalk full of poor AI reactions, strange lapses in logic 
 (they don't notice blood smeared all over the walls?) potentially awkward controls, and repetition. 
 
  
  As said, it's a Hitman game, and although it does MANY things better and more smoothly than the 
 first in the series, and is in all ways a better title, (and a good one at that) It's still a Hitman 
 game. You've got fibre wire, pistols, some poison, a machine gun, a lot more, and a contract to 
 kill. And kill you will.
  
  The story isn't particularly astounding though it did keep my interest for a respectable while. 
 Regardless, for me, I return to the Hitman games for their hilarity, satisfaction, and intellectually 
 challenging makeup. After all, Hitman 2 is no exception to the rule of difficulty usually present 
 in the Hitman series. Having said that, again, it's also no exception to repetition. Sure, each 
 of the missions requires a different way to kill, but in the end, you've got a target and you need 
 a plan. It's a slow paced game, that stays true to its roots. And for fans of the series like me 
 (the unblinded fan that I am) it's always a satisfying experience, even if the ending of this particular 
 title doesn't really satisfy at alland even if you wish they took this title further than they 
 did. 
  
  All in all, it's a solid entry to a solid (if somewhat shaky) series that shows its faults for 
 all to see, but never fails to stimulate. Fans will love it, so will thinkers and maybe some thrill 
 seekers, but don't expect an incredible amount of sense to come out of this. Once you take 30 bullets 
 to the chest you'll know what I mean.
  
  7.5/10 on Gamespot (opting to round down)
  With an anrounded score of 7.8 on IGN
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Hitman is meant to be played using stealth, much like Metal Gear Solid, but the first time I played, 
 I made it a Doom sequel. Ignorant of the beauty of crafting ingenious assassinations using scenario 
 elements and zero innocent kills, I practically did a Rambo on every mission and actually still 
 enjoyed it. It was my first Hitman game and I immediately liked the suave bald dude.
  
  The graphics rocked at that time and rag-doll physics were still in fashion. Most of the scenarios 
 are engaging and delightfully varied. From oriental Japanese mansions to office skyscrapers to 
 old cathedrals, the set design just awed me. I love the feature of having a weapon collection that 
 you can admire and even equip before every mission which kind of puts you into the role of Neo 
 in The Matrix. Guns. Lots of guns.
  
  Smooth controls make you an even smoother criminal, which highly compliments the maneuvering of 
 combo stealth moves or intense gun-fights that tests your reflexes against a measureably good AI. 
 Hitman: Silent Assassin is one of the best games that stand out among the rest of the shooters 
 during that time and till even now.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantomi_08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Az elso verzio utan ez sokkal jobban sikerult, a terkepet is sokkal jobban megoldottak, szinte 
 a 35%-at a jateknak a terkep segitsegevel lehet vegig vinni. Meg azt is kitalaltak a jatekba hogy 
 minden palya vegen van egy osszegzes, pontosabban hogy milyen ugyesen vitted vegig a palyat es 
 ez minden palya utan osszeadodik, es a jatek vegen peddig jon az osszegzes. Ha tokeletesen vegigvitted 
 a palyat, mindig megjutalmaznak egy bonusz fegyverrel, es misszio kozben is kapsz bonusz menteseket. 
 A grafikaja szerintem nem rossz ahhoz kepest hogy 2002-ben adtak ki a jatekot, van benne egy par 
 hiba, de ez megesik az uj jatekokkal is. Aki szereti az akcio-kaland jatekot azoknak ezt a jatekot 
 ajanlom, mert szerintem ez senkinek nem okozott csalodast, persze kiveve azokat akik nem szeretik 
 a kaland-akcio jatekokat, :) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Io Interactive is back with a sequel to the first Hitman game, where you play as a genetically 
 cloned being known only as Mr. 47. So, pick up your hardballer pistols and head out for your next 
 assignment. Being one of the world's best assassins is a hard reputation to hold up, so taking 
 time off to clear the mind is always needed. Mr. 47, after the actions of the first game, decided 
 to take the opposite role in life and live in a monastery as a gardener. Seem a little extreme? 
 Well, you can never leave the role of a trained killer either through your own actions of those 
 brought upon you from outside interference and Mr. 47 learns this. Mr. 47's mentor, our in a religious 
 sense, father (padre) , Mr. Vitetoreo is kidnapped and hauled across the world while you try to 
 track him down. Does this sound like a good start to a sequel?
  
  You've seen many movies where hitmen are hired to do odd jobs such as assassinating leaders or 
 sometimes sabotaging material, and in Silent Assassin, you'll be given the chance to display your 
 skill of stealth, weaponry, and the art of confusion as you try to fit into the mold of each situation 
 you're in. Newly incorporated in Silent Assassin is how the game "grades' you on the amount of 
 stealth you achieve throughout each mission. Yeah, you could go in guns blazing and maybe live 
 to tell, but the idea behind a hitman is to be silent and not be seen while going through their 
 task. After padre is kidnapped, Mr. 47 contacts his old organization who helped find him "jobs" 
 from the previous game, so that they may be able to locate his mentor. And of course, everything 
 has its price, so now you must go on a few missions to "pay" for the information to find your friend. 
 After a few missions, you'll find out they still don't know where he is, and again, you're lead 
 on some other missions finally realizing that your life as a hitman is truly what you are, not 
 a gardener. You'll travel the world over and back, going through around twenty missions having 
 to assassinate some people, hack computers, and also break into heavily guarded fortresses. Eventually, 
 you'll find out that the main man hiring you for your odd jobs is the man who kidnapped Mr. Vitetoreo 
 and you're lead upon one last mission from the place you started, the monastery.
  
  The graphics in Silent Assassin have been stepped up a little since the first game and most of 
 the actions of each character are smooth. You're either allowed to be in 1st person or 3rd person 
 perspective which is a nice choice. Animations for each character are done nicely and the physics 
 engine in the game was something new to genre and with this game, it was handled nicely. The areas 
 inside each mission were detailed and really set the atmosphere for each environment whether you're 
 in Japan in the middle of a blizzard, or India making an assassination attempt. A nice innovation 
 from the first hitman that was carried over is the ability to wear the clothes of any of your enemies. 
 You could take out a guard on the outside of a complex, without being seen, and adorn his clothes 
 and walk into the complex. No, you're not able to just run around, but depending upon your costume, 
 you'll be able to go through different places you weren't allowed before. This function of the 
 game adds a lot of play value to the game and of course, you don't need to absolutely do this, 
 but some missions can certainly be easier with the help of a disguise.
  
  Completing the actual assassination attempts should be easy in the weaponry standpoint, because 
 Mr. 47 will almost always be well equipped for any situation he's in whether he brings the weapons 
 with him or finds them off contacts throughout the mission maps. You'll deal with weapons such 
 as silenced pistols, the legendary hardballers, and a crossbow which can be used for a soundless 
 long range weapon. Whatever situation you're in, you'll find the right weapon. If you want to be 
 quiet, use wire to wrap around the neck of your opponents, or if you're not worried about sound, 
 bust out your AK and mow down multiple enemies. You'll gain new weapons as you pick them up during 
 your travels and will be able to equip yourself before most missions. You're not allowed to carry 
 an unlimited amount of weapons, which is actually realistic unlike a lot of other games, so choosing 
 your weapon can bring some strategy into the game each time through.
  
  The sound in this sequel helps you feel the atmosphere in each territory you cover throughout the 
 twenty plus missions. All the weapons have a unique sound. The characters within the game have 
 memorable voices and this adds to the atmosphere of the dark job of judgment of other souls.
  
  There isn't a multiplayer component to Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, but there definitely is a 
 lot of replay value within the game. Having multiple difficultly settings and being able to go 
 through each mission with total stealth and not being seen adds a lot of difficultly to any mission. 
 After each mission, you're given a score sheet telling how many shots you've fired, how many people 
 you've killed, and how much "stealth" and how much "aggression" you used for each level, among 
 other stats. With this unique score sheet that adds up after every mission, you'll be able to keep 
 track and hopefully beat your score each time through.
  
  Although there are many high points to Silent Assassin, there are some low points. When having 
 to sneak up on your enemies, Mr. 47 moves extremely slow. Yes, this may add difficultly to the 
 game, but having to make each "stealth" kill perfect because of timing can be frustrating. One 
 other aspect of the game that didn't shine was the fact that once the guards were alerted in one 
 part of the map, guards were alerted in every part of the map. This can truly happen, but this 
 was definitely a change from the first game in the Hitman series where the A. I didn't know if you 
 had fired a shot on the other side of the map in a disguise.
  
  But overall, if you liked the first Hitman game, you'll enjoy Silent Assassin even more with new 
 innovations, weapons, and strategies; you'll have hours of fun throughout the twenty plus missions 
 of the game. Newcomers to the series will enjoy Silent Assassin because of how well Io Interactive 
 put the missions and levels together. The story throughout the game keeps intact as you make the 
 rounds as one of the best assassins in the world. Can you hold up that reputation? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  hitman2 offers great gameplay for a beginner to the series and also to those who played the first 
 title.. as a brief comparison to its predecessor, well, there is no comparing, hitman2 just blows it 
 away.
  The graphics are well done, working out quite well even if you have a low end machine. Sounds even 
 better, the symphony music comes out well in combination to the other sound effects. of note is 
 the firepower you weild, each sounds distinctly diffrent and authentic, pulling you right to the 
 action.
  Missions offer you a great deal of choise as to how to accomplish your objective, which generally 
 would be to eliminate a given target.. you could choose to go for stealth and creep around as you 
 try and finish off your target with the least fuss possible or go the guns blazing way.. going guns 
 blazing is fun but at the same time can complicate your achieving your objective as your target 
 will not just sit around waiting for you to appear.
  for the most part its more useful to be as silent as possible.
  missions take you to various 
 locations, adding spice to gameplay.
  as with all other games, some missions can be downright frustrating but not impossible.
  the only 
 negative of note is when you take clothes of a slain enemy, a scene showing 47 actually change 
 would have been better than the clothes magically appearing on with those removed being neatly 
 folded on the side.
  on stealth, it is a bit hard to go around unsuspected as guards and more so civilians would be 
 highly suspicious of your movement, even if you are dressed up as one of them, so hanging around 
 an enemy or civilian quickly blows your cover.
  all said, its an incredible game, a must have for all gamers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This review I'm writing right now is a little different than the PS2 version that I wrote a few 
 months back. Here's my second or third boring review on another boring game made from a boring game 
 industry that thought up of something really boring. You start as a genetically engineered clone 
 assassin named 47, that was tooken out of retirement from the church. Now kidnapped by the italian 
 mafia just like in The Godfather, Father Victorio is held captive in the mansion gaurded by agents. But 
 after you tooken out the don of the mafia, and got the key, and headed down the basement where you 
 will find your missing friend there. He's been moved by the Russian mafia. So you travel all around 
 the world taking out targets from  myanmar, and Istanbul. You 
 don't get payed any money after you finish the hit on each person. Plus there are some annoying 
 bugs. Like running over a ninja gaurd on the Japan arc. Though you can actually be easily detected 
 in a disguise while your suspesion meter keeps on moving up rapidly. This game isn't even twice 
 as fun than it used to be a few months back. You can go through 20 missions in the whole game. Yeah, now 
 that's a lot of levels to challenge and make you mad by playing for hours to get them right. Also 
 you can either sneak or shoot around without a care for you after-mission rankings. You can shoot 
 ak-47's, dual wield silver ballers, sub-machine guns, and more. Also for stealth there's the fibre 
 wire, knives, and some non-lethal thing, I don't know what it is. Also I'm just really not interested 
 in Hitman any more. Sorry guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miden6
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm baffled by the 8.6 rating this game gets both from Gamespot and the community at large. While 
 the premise of the overall story and the individual missions are creative, I find myself nearly 
 falling asleep trying to complete each mission and frustrated when I'm betrayed by what seems to 
 be sloppy programming/gameplay interface or an inevitable and unavoidable situation. 
  
  For instance (spoilers) - 
  
  Boring user interface: never run or risk near 100% discovery. 
 Game-makers, if you're going to build this rule into your game, could you at least not develop 
 levels that take place over hundreds of virtual yards of distance and can only be covered at an 
 infuriatingly slow pace? Yeah, the name is "Silent Assassin" -- got it, thanks -- but could you at 
 least script the levels a bit more dynamically so that I don't have to cross a frozen wasteland 
 at 10 feet per hour?
  
  Logical consistency: I sneak through three levels to get to my target. I see him through a one-way 
 mirror in a locked room (that has a lock I can't apparently pick, despite my set of lock picks) . 
 Quite naturally, I take a silenced weapon out and shoot him. The evil general is dead, I rescue 
 the prisoner, right? Nope! Despite the fact that I'm a genetically engineered killer trained by 
 the brightest minds, I have no ability to jump through a ten foot wide, three foot high window. 
 I've painted myself into a dead end and have to start from my last save. Obviously, the way you 
 get to your target is to lure him out with a completely bogus pager that he magically hears through 
 the wall and he leaves his critically important interrogation for in order to answer. Stupid.
 
  
  Variety: We have no character interchange, no quiet and deadly gun battles on sinister, fog-shrouded 
 Parisian streets or closely followed marks slipping through urban landscapes. 
  
  Storyline: Uh, weren't we supposed to be saving our good friend the priest? By the fourth mission 
 in Japan, what the heck am I doing? Didn't I have a day or so to raise $500,000 to ransom him? 
 The storyline, so important in the beginning, absolutely evaporates within the first hour of gameplay.
 
  
  This game is a colossal disappointment. If you want stealth-based, varied gameplay, get any one 
 of the Thief or Deus Ex games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x360gamer123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  its way better than the first hitman and probobly better than contracts. i havent played contracts 
 but hitman silent assassin looks better. its got its issues like most games do. like for example.. the 
 bodyguards runing through the doors and getting shot through the doors. the blood is pretty real 
 but a little like paint. i havent played blood money but that looks like the best hitman. silent 
 assassin is 2nd. blood money is the best probly because its most realistic and you can put peeps 
 on dumsters etc.... the first hitman was ok. id give it a 7.0. ive never treid going stealthy but 
 i bet its no fun. i just run around looking for the target kill the target and leave and kill anyone 
 who stands in my way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnagemachine
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  This was incredably dissapointing. what they've done with Hitman 2 is to competely destroy all 
 of the stealth involved in Hitman 1 which was a brilliant game.
  
  For starters it in impossible to fibre wire or knife someone stealthily, because to do it stealthily 
 you have to sneak and when you sneak you walk slower than someone else who is walking which they 
 always are people are always patrolling. so the only way to silently take someone down is to silence 
 pistol them in the face which is unreliable because of its lack of accuracy.
  
  Also people suspect you for absolutly no reason at all. you have the right clothes, you have the 
 right gun equiped (i've even tried no gun equiped)
  you walk normally, you dont look around you dont do anything and then they just suspect if your 
 anywhere near them you and start shooting you
  
  This dissapointed game doesnt deserve to have the title stealth game 
  the gameplay of this is 
 the same. Spray and Pray /run and shoot, shoot and run.
  
  however it does have some good aspects about mainly its very unlinear gameplay, to assasinate someone 
 you can find a good vantage spot with a sniper or go through the sewers past the guards but unfortunately 
 one is always the best Spray and Pray /run and shoot, shoot and run. Also they fix of the **** 
 and frustrating controls from HM1
  
  Now i'm not even going to bother commenting on the graphics/sound because i dont really care that 
 much about graphics.
  
  This game is yet another sad fate of the effects of gaming consoles. The great origonal was than 
 turned into pathetic shit so that people can play it on xbox, PS2. This has happened to so many 
 games. Rainbow 6 3-4, Dues ex my god what a catastrophy, Project IGI, Call of duty 1-2 and so many 
 more
  
  This is our reality... Sorry bout rant! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Most Hitman series newcomers these days are just gonna play the great Hitman Blood Money then move 
 on, ignoring the previous games because of their age. But if your either a Hitman fan or someone 
 who doesn't have a good enough PC to run HMBM, then chances are this may interest you. This game 
 costs hardly anything for a start and it poineered the new Hitman gameplay formula. A bit of polish 
 in some of the games missions, ie, proper falling of a skyscraper deaths and characters that have 
 proper conversations and behave realistically, not repetitively, would have perfected this still 
 great game.
  
  The game starts of with an exellent 1st mission which is the most original Hitman mission I've 
 seen and I've seen alot from nearly all the games. It offers different ways to enter the place, 
 different ways to kill the target and even different ways to escape. Their are 20 missions and 
 some are amazing in their originality whilst others are uninspired. The Japan levels and the India 
 levels are the highlight of the game in my opinion. The story is also pretty interesting.
  
  I tried diving straight into the game on proffesional difficulty to make the game last longer 
 and I struggled, even on expert I couldn't complete the 1st mision. This was partly because I skipped 
 the tutorial and because I had hardly ever played Hitman back then and their are alot of missions 
 that i know I could handle on Expert or even pro difficulty, but I had to finish the game on normal 
 to realise this and I needed to use a walkthrough. where would I be without it? Stuck on level 
 4 probably. I reccomend finishing this tricky game on normal mode first. Regardless of what difficulty 
 you play the missions on, finishing them with Silent assassin rating is really satisfying, even 
 if you use a walkthrough like a wimp.
  
  The game has class orchestral music. It's not like the opera in Blood money or the Techno in Codename 
 47 and Contracts. It's real action themed music. The voicework also pleases the ears but the characters 
 in all the locations all have the same voice. Not the same voice as all the guards and civs on 
 all the locations, but the same as all the other ones in that area. Plus they all look the same. 
 I haven't played many recent computer games but I sure hope that all the characters are individuals 
 in today's games. This repetitiveness is also found in outdoor environments and it's what holds 
 the pretty mint graphics back from perfection.
  
  If you do play older games because you don't have discriminating tastes, this is a recomendable 
 game and if you were thinking of buying it then why not. Just try to make it last more than I did. 
 Use a walkthrough but try to get Silent Assassin at the end of each level. You'll be sittting at 
 your computer for a while, waiting for the next big advancement in your gaming life, such as upgrading 
 for Hitman Blood Money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  The original Hitman: Codename 47 walked away with the Most Unrealized Potential award for 2000. 
 Stealthy Thief-like gameplay in a modern setting coupled with an awesome physics engine seemed 
 a sure shot, but a lack of in-mission saves, an awkward control scheme, and stringent play rules 
 kept fun out of the equation.
  
  Thankfully, these issues have been fixed for the sequel, but the revised formula is still less 
 than perfect.
  
  Mission objectives usually consist of executing a single target and retrieving a piece of intelligence. 
 But unlike in Hitman, youre not limited to a cool, stealthy approach: You can play most missions 
 balls-out as you would any ordinary shooter, executing everything in sight. Indeed, its often 
 easier to play this way, but in doing so you miss out on half the game  the intricate and multiple 
 pathways to finishing incognito. So you end up having to discipline yourself into playing the game 
 stealthily, as the developers intended, and not as an average third-person shooter. Its an uncomfortable 
 game mechanic, relying on you to make up for schizophrenic game design.
  
  After all, it takes patience to sneak around these worlds, strangling people for their clothes 
 and hiding their bodies, and theres a constant trial-and-error discovery of the safest route. 
 To ease the pain, IO Interactive added a limited number of in-mission saves, which you can use 
 to save anywhere. The saved-games load extremely fast, though a quick-load key is MIA.
  
  Before starting missions, you get a verbal briefing from your employer, Diana, as her text scrolls 
 up a computer terminal. Its imperative to pay attention here: If you miss any key details you 
 have to listen to her whole speech again  sometimes several minutes worth  because theres no 
 way to manually scroll through her spiel. Worse, its possible to miss a detail in the opening 
 of a mission, reach the end, and have to start all over because you werent paying attention to 
 Dianas little communiqu&eacute;.
  
  In-game planning is aided by a new map system that tracks the movement of every person in the level, 
 color-coding them according to threat and priority. While its helpful to see when youve alerted 
 patrol guards on the other side of the compound, it also takes all the mystery out of whats around 
 the corner.
  
  The most impressive aspect of the game is the engine itself. The graphics are sharp, including 
 sprawling outdoor landscapes and well-animated 3D human models. The cut-scenes were obviously made 
 by a would-be filmmaker stuck with game tools  theyre outstanding.
  
  And the physics add surprising realism. Shoot people with your shotgun, and they go flying backward 
 to topple like a rag doll over whatever furniture (or staircase) happens to be there  kind of 
 like corpses in Unreal Tournament 2003, but to much greater effect.
  
  Another treat is the score, conducted by the Budapest Symphony Orchestra and Choir, echoing at 
 times John Williams operatic tracks from the new Star Wars films. Its a fresh change from the 
 distortion-drenched rock we action fans are so often spoon-fed.
  
  For those seeking the old Hitman in a new suit, the hardest difficulty setting removes both the 
 map system and in-game saves. Displaying admirable persistence, several of you will undoubtedly 
 win the game in this mode. But whichever way you play, youll get lost inside a thoroughly immersive 
 game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I first picked up this game in July of 2007 in the Hitman Trilogy pack because I wanted Blood Money 
 and it came with the Silent Assassin and Contracts for $30.
  
  I am not disappointed even though it was made 5 years ago the locals are nice and the animation 
 is smooth. I like Hitman 2 level design compared to Contracts because there is more variety. The 
 graphics are still good. The rag doll physics get ridculous when you shoot someone with a silverballer 
 and they flip and fall back 15 feet. Hitman 2 20+ missions and Contracts only had roughly a dozen. 
 Hitman 2 is a good stealth and shooting game. Some of the missions take trial and error and some 
 of the error detection has some problems. Some missions you have to conceal yourself or the target 
 will flee the scenes.
  
  The value is great since you can always try the missions a different way. The weapons are nice, 
 there is more varieties of sniper rifles than anything else, crossbows, desert eagles, assault 
 rifles, submachine guns and much more. The music by Jesper Kyd is great. The scoring makes the 
 game more immerive and suspenseful rather than licensed music or rock/techno. The story is great 
 about Agent 47 a man that is mainly the groundskeeper at a church only to have a early retirement 
 due to Father Victorio being kidnapped.
  
  Hitman 2 is a great game and if you weren't certain buy the Hitman Trilogy Pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Second in the Hitman series Silent Assassin brought a wide variety of betterment and had a lot 
 of the previous problems fixed. A radical improvement is seen in the game play even from the very 
 beginning. Mission essence is reaches a point where the game almost seems real. Something I really 
 loved about it is the beginning part of the game where 47 is presented as a retired hit-man living 
 with a priest at a church and the chain of event that forced him to get back in business. Also a 
 significant scenery and game atmosphere improvement is present in all of the missions. All this 
 combined with a slick menu design and a very pretentious soundtrack make Hitman 2 Silent Assassin 
 a very solid and definitely worth your while game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  The sequel to Hitman forces a retired assassin back into action by treason. Visit the dark recesses 
 of the world corrupted by crime, greed, degradation, and dishonor. Your contracts will take you 
 to exotic locations around the globe including Sicily, St. Petersburg, Japan, Malaysia, and India. 
 A diverse arsenal of equipment, from armor-piercing rifles and explosives to chloroform and poison 
 darts, are at your disposal. Stalk and eliminate your targets up close and personal, in either 
 first- or third-person perspectives. You must decide whether to use stealth or aggression, but 
 be careful -- you'll have to deal with the consequences.
  You must enter the mind of a genetically engineered assassin Codename 47, whose deadly efficiency 
 is now needed more than ever. Lured back into a global ring of deception, you must kill not only 
 to make a living, but to continue living. This time it's not just business. It's personal. The 
 Hitman 2 team is building on the original Hitman in order to develop a stylish game built from 
 the ground up for the advanced video game consoles, says Janos Flosser, Managing Director of Io 
 Interactive. Hitman 2's incredibly intensive gameplay and in-depth character interaction makes 
 for an incredible third person based gaming experience. Hitman 2's storyline begins in a Sicilian 
 monastery. Codename 47 has been attempting to distance himself from his violent past, however the 
 local criminal underworld discover his true identity and blackmail him into returning to his trade. 
 Caught in the middle of a ring of deception, Codename 47 soon discovers that he has been manipulated 
 and the hunter must now watch his back, as he has become the hunted. Hitman 2 will improve on the 
 original in every conceivable way. The game offers a variety of ways to complete a mission, 1st 
 and 3rd person perspective, mid-mission save options, a new ranking system and a revised inventory 
 system that allows you to acquire and carry weapons and equipment from mission to mission. Codename 
 47 is armed with an arsenal of over 30 weapons such as pistols, sub-machine guns, shotguns and 
 sniper rifles. You also have access to new non-lethal weapons and pacifying gear including chloroform, 
 poison darts, stun guns and fibre wire for garrotting. Missions take place in countries across 
 the globe and each location features inhabitants speaking in their native tongue. To further heighten 
 the dramatic atmosphere the game's music has been composed and performed by the Budapest Symphonic 
 Orchestra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. I've played every Hitman game there is (except for the newest, Blood 
 Money) and this one has always been my favorite. The levels are well done, the gameplay is addictive, 
 and the list of ways to finish your missions and tasks goes on and on. Hitman 2: Silent Assassin 
 is an instant classic.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  -Creative gameplay
  -Many different disguises
  -Intuitive ways to accomplish tasks
  -Great graphics
  -Ragdoll 
 physics make for some funny moments
  -Large array of weapons
  -Many levels to accomplish
  -Impressive amount of unneeded additions (doves flying in the sky around a church, cars roaming 
 the streets, etc.)
  
  THE BAD
  
  -Melee attacks are practically useless.
  -Blood looks like watered down ketchup
  -Agent 47 doesn't turn around very fast
  -When attacking 
 with a knife (or similar object) , Agent 47 will attack in one place, even if the enemy moves away.
 
  -Some weapons are extremely overpowered (Ballers) while some are extremely underpowered (SMG)
 
  
  THE UGLY
  
  -The Ragdoll physics are very unrealistic. One shot from a shotgun will have the enemy flying 25 
 feet away from you.
  -Swords, Axes, and other melee weapons are incredibly underpowered. For example, if you sneak behind 
 a guard with a sword and strike him with it, he will turn around and start firing at you, practically 
 unscathed. This happens with the handgun also. I thought hitting someone in the head with my sidearm 
 would second as a cheap form of anesthetic, but instead, enemy's just whip around and start firing 
 at you.
  
  Even with some of its stupid faults, Hitman 2 is still an extremely immersive and addictive game. 
 The game was released in 2002, and I'm still having fun with the levels and creativity in 2007, 
 five years after it was released.
  
  Hitman 2 will never get old to me. It just sort of... grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I liked Hitman, though I never finished it all, and when I played this game, I just wanted to get 
 over with it asap. Dont go for the words silent assassin, the game is pretty simple and easy, 
 and for FPS fans, just toggle into FPS mode and go on a rampage. When I played this game, I killed 
 everybody I saw, criminals or innocent, or the police, to me everybody was the same, no wonder 
 I git the rated as Mass Murderer =D. Actually if you arent a Hitman fan, this is the best thing 
 to do because all the games in this series are very similar and things are done in the very similar 
 fashion. You wont have problem with the graphics or sound, though I would rate them mediocre, 
 focus on killing and hear the cries of your victims before you kill them.
  If youre looking for some stealth based game where you like moving in the shadows, and where being 
 stealthy makes sense, go for Splinter Cell. If theres a killer inside you, Hitman 2 Silent Assassin 
 guarantees 10 hours of good twisted fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first hitman all the way through. It had many great ideas but couldn't use them 
 to their full extent and lacked in gameplay. Now with Hitman 2 Eidos builds on the Hitman formula 
 with better graphics, a continuem of the story of Agent 47, and more Hitman-esque features.
  
  The graphics in Hitman 2 have been revamped for a nicer, smoothing experience. The sound is 
 also better but voice overs can be annoying due to frantic civilians repeating shouts again and 
 again.
  
  The missions number around 20+. This means that while the missions are fun they can be short at 
 times. You can however make the missions longer by exploring and doing it anyway you want. Agent 
 47 who tried to live in peace is brought back into the Hitman life and is mad as ever to get revenge 
 for his own personal reasons.
  
  Instead of just going in and shooting up everything in sight like some games do to take out a target, 
 you can infiltrate the sewers, and place a bomb under your target's car, find a good sniping spot 
 and get him/her from a distance, etc. This adds to the replayability of Hitman with the multiple 
 ways to complete missions.
  
  Hitman 2 sets the stage and bar for the future Hitman series games. It gets down the solid gameplay 
 and feel. There are many things to expand on in this series but Hitman 2 is just the starting.
 
  
  Pros+ New sleek Hitman Look, many weapons to do your dirty deeds with, 20 plus missions
  
  Cons- Quirky gameplay scenarios at times, glitches, psychics are odd at times, A. I. isn't the 
 most believable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I played this game when it first came out with a friend. We were instantly hooked at how the presentation 
 of this game was delivered. Assassination missions in Hitman are unique and players must venture 
 through each heavily guarded levels by disguise or run through each level as a mass murderer. If 
 you decided to play as a silent assassin you must use a disguise and execute your target efficiently 
 before anyone realizes. Or kill everyone on sight and become a rampaging monster - it is up to 
 you. There are variety of weapons to choose from including heavy rifles like AK47, M16, M60 etc 
 - silent tools including kitchen knife, fibre wire for efficient routinely execution. There are 
 not many levels but each level would take you around an hour if you decide to be a silent assassin. 
 The best part of the game is about disguise so use it efficiently. You can basically disguise anyone 
 - guards, chef, bell boy, soldier, a muslim you name it. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Silent Assassin does improve dramatically on its on merits. The levels are easy to roam through, 
 that being by the map and not walking by the enemy.
  The enemy is alot smarter to point you out of the crowd yet they are a bit to smart. They made 
 the enemy freak out on nothing that you have done. In Agent 47, you had to stay by the enemy awhile 
 for him to notice you. In S. A., they for some reson can point you out quick like levels on the 
 Park Meeting and Anathema. It provides a challenge but can become quite unrealistic. Lets get to 
 the weapons though... the game features quite an array of weapons from the Spas-12 gauge and M-160 
 to your basic fibre wire and a fire axe. The game is fun on cheats and you can see yourself just 
 experimenting on the games with cheats than actually participating on the story. In this next version 
 your hidden away, well into retirement but somehow trouble just seem to find 47. You have to like 
 a game that has a deep background and entangling storyline. The gameplay is smooth, you can play 
 the stealth character of 47 or you can go in a guns a blazing, putting fear in the people you have 
 to kill to get to your target. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Good: Each level is large and open; you can decide how you make your hit, with what and when; all 
 the possibilities lead to enable creative ways to carry out your job; graphics are crisp and clean 
 even for todays standards; great music that adds a deep feel to the game.
  
  Bad: Difficulty is a bit too hard; some levels have linear paths into your objective that make 
 it extremely hard to do it any other way than the one they planned out.
  
  
  Hitman 2 is another installment on the franchise, but this game makes for a much better experience 
 than the previous. When you first start you will notice the free-roam like game play, you are not 
 forced to go anywhere and you can do it whenever you please. You start on a mission, or a church, 
 and the plot will unfold. The main character, named Agent 47 is a religous man, he donates money 
 to the church that he gained from massacring his hits. After confession, he tells the pastor of 
 his sins, and then something happens... Italian mafia members capture the pastor and leave 47 a 
 note. The note says they want 500k for the pastor or he's dead. This will start the first mission.
 
  
  The game play is amazing. Its a great break from the generic run and gun shooters that litter the 
 game lineup, and proves to be a complete adrenaline rush. Each mission has many ways to end it, 
 the choice is yours, this is what makes it such a successful game, the creativity level is vast 
 meaning you can do many many ways of taking down your hit. Unfortunately some of the missions have 
 a certain area you should go through and every other way is very difficult. This cuts into the 
 free-roam do what you want style. But its not too bad. You can take peoples clothes to use disguises, 
 you can lure guards in traps to take them down one by one, or you can even set traps. It is limited 
 but its a lot more in-depth than any other shooter.
  
  The music is great. The classic Ave Maria song plays on start up and the in-game music is amazing. 
 The music sets in a deep mood that lets you crawl into the experience. Sound effects sound great, 
 each gun sounds different and its not the cliche generic gun explosion in normal games, it has 
 a unique and realistic sound that blends in very well.
  
  Graphics are crisp and cut-scenes look magnificent. The cut-scenes are absolutely great, its probably 
 the best graphics for its time, its even up there for todays time, but the graphics in game look 
 aged. They aren't bad but the character models look like clay, which isn't bad since its the art 
 style used in every Hitman, Agent 47 to Blood money.
  
  Overall, the story isn't very long, but its still got enough content to keep you coming back for 
 more, I still do every now and then. The missions are so much fun, once you beat it and get the 
 best weapons, going throughout the levels with the best weapons and annihilating everyone is pretty 
 fun. Overall, its old, cheap, and a masterpiece, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_path
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  The first Hitman game I ever owned and probably the best in the series. It's action-packed filled 
 with a handful of mysteries, contents and just about everything that you would expect from a stealth 
 first/third person shooter game. Fans of the first Hitman game will definitely not be disappointed 
 by the new sequel because it has a much improved gameplay and way better than it's predecessor 
 in variety of ways. For those of you who remembered playing Hitman: Codename 47 will have a lot 
 to comment about it's difficulty and the core mechanics. Some people loved it, some hated it and 
 just when you think Hitman will not get any worse, wait till you try Hitman 2: Silent Assassin.
 
  
  The sequel takes place where exactly Hitman: Codename 47 left off. After successfully killing his 
 creator and destroying the 48 series clones and the cloning laboratory, the anti-hero Agent 47 
 turns away from his profession, trying to find solace at the Gontrano Sanctuary on the Island of 
 Sicily. He is not heard from the Agency or any dark organization for a very long time. He now put 
 his skilled hands to work in the garden, nurturing it rather than end it. He make friends with 
 the priest- Father Vittorio, and have confessions with him regularly. 47 confess that he killed 
 many people in the past- for money, out of ignorance, out of evil and out of hatred, and begs for 
 God's forgiveness. After the priest gives his spiritual advice, he is abducted by some thugs and 
 is driven away from the church. 47 runs to the scene of the crime and finds a wooden box left by 
 the kidnappers. He discovers that the local Mafia Don has kidnapped Vittorio and wants $500,000 
 as a ransom. Since 47 donated all his money to the church, he has no choice but to dig up the past. 
 He contact the Agency and Diana (The mysterious figure in the Agency from the previous installment) 
 is thrilled to hear his voice again because they presumed he was dead. 47 isn't looking for work 
 but wants information about the person responsible for Father Vittorio's disappearance, and so 
 Diana promises to offer him information in return for 47 returning to work. And thus the Hitman 
 is back in business!
  
  The gameplay in Hitman 2 is an improvement from Hitman: Codename 47 for it now uses the standard 
 WSAD keypad rather than it's weird control scheme that no other designers would've thought doing 
 it. It's fast and easy to maneuver than ever before. 47 can walk, run, crouch, strafe and also 
 sneak to the enemies, disposing them using the fibre wire, knifes or the Anesthetic, a bottle of 
 chloroform to silence enemy without lethal force. It's a good substitute than the fibre wire if 
 you want to achieve higher ranking. Hitman 2 introduces a new ranking scheme which you'll see after 
 completing a mission. It tracks down the number of kills, number of headshots, number of shots, 
 number of encounters and so on, and the ratings will effect your ranking based on your action. 
 If you finished a mission with less kills and no alerts for example, you will unlock new weapons. 
 But unfortunately, there are only two weapons you can unlock in Hitman 2 so achieving Silent Assassin 
 for all mission isn't necessary but it's fun and challenging.
  
  The best aspect of Hitman 2 which critics are satisfied about is the saving mechanics. Unlike the 
 original game, players can now save their game in mission and can resume anytime. Each difficulty 
 will grant you only a number of saves. For example- Easy mode is 9 saves per mission, Normal is 
 7 saves and so on. The only thing that didn't change from the previous instalment is amount of 
 47's weaponry and his ability to change his clothing. From Katana Sword to Snipers to Hunting Crossbow 
 to AK's and lot's more, 47 is indestructible than ever. Disguising yourself is THE most important 
 thing if you want to do it the right way. 47 can silence anybody, steal their clothing and blend 
 himself with the enemy guards and targets, but it's not that easy. Below the health meter, in the 
 upper left of the screen, is the threat meter. It's all white when no one is paying attention to 
 you. However, as you pass people like guards and soldiers, the meter begins to turn black. This 
 means they are looking at you. The meter turns red if they are getting suspicious and will sound 
 the alarm and start shooting you when your meter is completely red.
  
  The Hitman series has always been popular with it's dark and surreal soundtrack. Jesper Kyd once 
 again return to Hitman and provided us some of the greatest music ever heard. David Bateson reprised 
 his role as 47 and he sounds better than ever. The other thing I like about the voice acting is 
 the variety of languages used. In Hitman, you'll travel many exotic places such as Russia, Japan, 
 Malaysia, India and Afghanistan, and you can actually hear foreign languages the local use there. 
 It's so fascinating and cool. Hitman 2 definitely has a big replay value because of it's well presentation 
 and it makes you want to play it again once you finish the game. The weapons obtain from completed 
 missions can be used once more and plus you can select any mission you wish to play. For those 
 of you players who's a fan of the first Hitman game or a first/third-person shooter addict like 
 myself, you must without a doubt should not miss Hitman 2: Silent Assassin. It's a much improved 
 sequel, an exciting storyline and it's features are simply the best. I love this game very much. 
 But for the ones who dislike the prequel, you definitely must give Hitman a second chance. You 
 will not regret it. I guarantee it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You don't really need a manual to figure out how to play this game. It doesn't take much 
 to learn the basic gameplay mechanics of HItman 2: Silent Assassin. There are also lots of guards 
 and civilians so that you can have a fun time disposing of them if you choose the mass murderer 
 route. There are a great selection of weapons that you can use, although you will have to unlock 
 them throughout the game. It is painfully short. It didn't take me long to beat the game. The game 
 is also insanely easy if you choose the mass murderer route. If you want any type of challenge, 
 try a difficulty higher than normal or taking the stealth approach. On normal you can easily just 
 blast your way through the levels and take a substantial amount of bullets before you will reach 
 near death. In some parts of the game, you may find yourself running back and forth on a big map 
 which gets really aggravating after a while, although this only happens during a few levels. Also 
 the death effects are somewhat unrealistic if you use heavy-packing guns. For example, the Duel 
 Ballers (although just duel pistols) can pack quite a punch. Three shots to the chest and the foe 
 will be sent flying through the air, literally.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: The graphics are pretty good, but are also compatible with low end systems. 
 The smooth graphic effects in this game like water, weather, and even blood are very well done. 
 The sound quality is above average. The voice acting is extremely well done.
  
  Replay Value: Hitman 2: Silent Assassin has a moderate replay value. You can play through as a 
 Silent Assassin and another time as a mass murderer. There is also the incentive to unlock all 
 the weapons before trying the mass murderer route.
  
  Overall, Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is a great game. Despite some minor gameplay issues. I would 
 recommend it too anyone that enjoys any shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  After playing a bit of the first Thief and Hitman titles and coming away from the experience bored, 
 frustrated, and antsy, I decided that Im just not a fan of sneakers. I can tolerate and sometimes 
 -- as in the case of The Chronicles of Riddick -- really get into a level or section that requires 
 me to avoid being seen or recognized. However, its hard to sell me on the notion of an entire 
 game that requires stealth throughout.
  
  Which is all just to say that I didnt expect to enjoy Hitman 2: Silent Assassin as much as I did, 
 but the games animation, environmental detail, and tricky scenarios were arranged so very well 
 that I recommend it even for players who normally cant sit still through a single cutscene. Silent 
 Assassin is not a fast-paced action game in any sense of the word, regardless of Io Interactives 
 efforts to allow less-patient players to run riot through many levels. The real payoff in H2: SA 
 comes from a patient assessment of access points and guard movement patterns for a quick, quiet 
 kill. In fact, although I methodically gathered as many rifles, pistols, and blunt instruments 
 as I could carry, I did little more than display them proudly on the wall of my gardening shack. 
 Otherwise, the silenced pistol and garrote were all I really needed to stop hearts aplenty and 
 escape unscathed.
  
  As I was saying, the first pass through any level in H2: SA is a meticulous affair marked by experimentation 
 and a lot of practice. Luckily, the corridors, gardens, and streets through which Agent 47 will 
 likely pass repeatedly while timing the right approach toward a target or trying out different 
 disguises are finely detailed, both up close and in the distance. There are plenty of mundane objects 
 placed amidst the furnishings and flora that can double as an impromptu murder weapon. I was frequently 
 delighted to discover a novel secondary approach toward each marks demise, even if poisoned food 
 or a car bomb denied me the opportunity to deliver the killing stroke in person. Once I explored 
 a level thoroughly enough to memorize everyones potty break schedule, the location of secret passages 
 and deadly artifacts, and the right exit strategy, each mission was actually rather short. I had 
 just as much fun keeping the carnage to an absolute minimum  which, if done just right, adds some 
 very nice rare toys to 47s arsenal  as I did furtively snuffing every possible combatant &agrave; 
 la Jason Voorhees.
  
  Hitman 2 provided a nice break from the run-and-gun chaos into which I immerse myself nearly every 
 evening. I cant emphasize enough how much patience and self-control is required while learning 
 the layout of each mission during the first playthrough, but executing a flawless incursion on 
 subsequent visits provides a very ample reward. I wont go so far as to say that Agent 47s adventures 
 in contractual euthanasia converted me into a fan of stealth games in general, but I was definitely 
 raring to strike from the shadows again as soon as both of Ios follow-ups to Silent Assassin appeared 
 on store shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningsun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is the best game in the hitman franchise.
  
  Story &amp; Character:
  The character is 47, he is a contract killer that works for the agency. 
 47 has a few fun and interesting trademarks, his favourite weapons are his hardballers his W2000 
 and his fibre wire. The story starts of when you are working and living in a church in Italy, your 
 friend a priest gets kidnaped and you want to help him. To do this you need to get back to the 
 agency so you get the information to help your friend but you will also have to do some missions 
 for the agency.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of Silent Assassin is fantastic and highly replayable, it offers you a chance to be 
 creative in a way to complete your objectives that are given to you by the agency. You get 20+ 
 missions that get harder every time but that doesn't mean you won't have fun, in fact it gets better. 
 You get a bigger yeah, I did it when you completed the mission that is harder. The reason that 
 Hitman 2 is highly replayable is that you get a rating at the end of the mission, this rating varies 
 from being absolutely undetectable to a mass murderer. Hitman is made to be both, you can kill 
 anyone as you please in a mission or you can try and sneak in wearing cloths from someone you sedated 
 and kill your target or do you objective in the most silenced way you can. You can do a lot of 
 things to help you with this; you can drag people to places where nobody comes, you can use a silencer, 
 you can sedate somebody
  and you have a map where everybody is on the map at that exact moment, you can also picklock doors 
 that are closed to get inside.
  you can chose to watch the guards movement and get in. or you can get some cloths and try and sneak 
 in as a invited person. After completing the game you can always play that mission again from the 
 main menu, so you don't have to start again. You can always find new ways to infiltrate and get 
 a better ranking. Besides that you can collect all weapons that are in the game. These weapons 
 can be used in other missions after you collected them.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of Hitman 2: Silent Assassin where fantastic in its time. Of course this game was 
 made a few years ago. So don't expect fantastic graphics.
  
  Conclusion:
  This game is innovative, highly addictive, revolutionary, its the best in its series, its a masterpiece 
 and an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 497573
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin es un titulo que posee poca diferencia con su antencesor. Esto fue bueno 
 ya que su gameplay no cambi&oacute; en mucho, los gr&aacute; ficos mejoraron en lo referente a la 
 iluminaci&oacute; n, texturas y sombras. El sonido fue mejorado e incluso interactivo con el ambiente, 
 por ejemplo: en la mision 'Basement Killing ' mientras el agente 47 camina sobre pedazos de frituras, 
 debia caminar en silencio para que el blanco no se diera cuanta de su presencia.
  Algo innovador es que obtienes rankins y obteniendo el rankin de Silent Assassin, puedes desbloquear 
 armas especiales; esto le a&ntilde; adio un punto mas a su gameplay, ya que el jugador siempre querr&aacute; 
 tener el mejor score.
  Tambien hay una nueva variedad de armas que puedes recoger mientras completas una mision, estas 
 van desde el tradicional cuchillo de cocina, hasta el temible rifle de asalto M4.
  Pero no podemos dejar de lado la historia; tenemos a un agente 47 que quiere dejar su oscuro pasado 
 atr&aacute; s pero por razones inevitables, termina siendo reasignado por la Agencia para hacer 
 sus trabajos de 'limpiado'. No tiene una trama que envuelve pero que a la larga no se la toma en 
 cuenta.
  En fin, Hitman 2: SA es un titulo que vale la pena jugarlo, si te gusto el primero, este te va 
 a encantar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  I had played the first Hitman and to be honest..., I wasn't expecting much from this game when 
 I downloaded it. But I started liking it. It has great missions and plenty of nice weapons, like 
 fiber wire, 9mm Silenced pistols, SMG-S, Snipers, fire axes and so on. At the end of every mission 
 there's a summary table gives you a score. It depends from your stealth and aggression. First I 
 was rated a psychopath or mass murder, but as soon as I learned the job's tricks i got all missions 
 rated professional or ghost . In a few words this game is challenging, stimulating, and very intelligent. 
 What makes it different from other shooters is the fact that the less people you kill to reach 
 your objectives, the better you've managed your skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Sentinel11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  A sequel to a classsic third-person stealth game couldn't be more addictive. Hitman 2 starts off 
 with a solid storyline, mondo 3D graphics, and a super-cool gameplay. For those who don't know, 
 and those who do will be plaesed, Hitman 2 is about our favourite bald serial-killer, Mr. 47. At 
 the end of Hitman 1, Mr. 47 gave up his gun-running days and retired to a churchyard. At the beginning 
 of the game Hitman 2, his fate once again sets him in a path which forces him to rejoin his Agency. 
 Gameplay is the greatest feature of Silent Assassin. There are about 20 different levels, each 
 in an enviroment totally different from the other, while few take place in the same country and 
 have a similarity in the surroundings. This game is not a shooter, as we well know, and the levels 
 can be of almost no difficulty if one tries to shoot his way out of it. However, that is not the 
 real way Mr. 47 does it, and you have to use stealth as your key to solving the game, in order 
 to become a Silent Assassin . Sometimes, stealth can make life easier for you, than getting into 
 a really annoying gunfight with a hundred guards. A few last levels require pure cambat to be completed, 
 though. Mr. 47's greatest teghnique is to disguise himself by wearing the costume of an enemy he 
 has killed. The weapons are also cool. There are over 30 different weapons, including hardballers, 
 rifles, pistols, bombs and more. Stealth, as stated earlier, is the key. An ideal hit is where 
 Mr. 47 does not kill a single enemy, fools them with his disguises, makes sure no one knows that 
 he's even there, and not even the guy he kills knows that he's dying. However, it can also be played 
 by killing a hundred people in order to become a Mass Murderer or a Psychopath . Mr. 47 can also 
 due unique actions. Apart from the occasional suit-wearing, he can hide inside trucks, set up bombs 
 on roadsides, and strangle enemies witha fibre-wire. The enemies too are really good. Their AI 
 is superb, and they can spot it if your crouching while impersonating a party guest. However they're 
 really easy to kill with a headshot, which once again will restrain you from becoming a Silent 
 Assassin . This game has virtually no weaknesses. The reality is maintained, the people are real 
 eonugh to spot your blunders, and the graphics, sound and enviroments make it worthy os the Hitman 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeDeXeP
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is AWESOME! you got many many posibilities to complete the mission, you can be Rambo o 
 you can be... Hitman. The gameplay of the game is similar to Codename 47; Stealing clothes, be silent, etc., but 
 something really good from this game was the sound, graphics, for 2002 this graphics ROCKS, this game 
 got variety of weapons, from the fiber wire to a SVD Sniper, and in inventory too, lockpick (obviesly) , night 
 vision goggles and more. This game i dont know if is so good like Blood Money or Contracts, but Silent 
 Assasin reallyy fix the bugs from Codename 47 and reallyy the sequel of Codename 47 stands out. If 
 you like this kind of games, Hitman 2: Silent assasin (or Hitman: Blood Money, but maybe got to play 
 Silent Assassin and Contracts first) is for you, if you dont like this kind of games, Hitman can be 
 a posibility, because you can be RAMBO, or HITMAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bealesy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  you play as 47 the only classy assasin around as you travel around large maps sneaking round guards 
 takeing out targets and free hostages aswell as many other objectives. there are some very clever 
 ideas in this game and the choice of wepons are briliant. Many other great features including the 
 takingthe clothes of the people you have either killed or knoced out, and a superb save system (save 
 mid game but only get so many saves per level) make this a brilliant game P. S For me anyway it 
 takes such a long lurning curve to know how the guards will reactbut the actual game play is under 
 30 mins 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is an all around great game. the difficulty is perfect. The game play is sweet and best 
 of all the story line is TOP NOTCH. I mean they should make Hitman into a movie. The cut scenes 
 in the game are like a movie, and they flow great with the game play.
  
  It all starts out as the hitman being retired and working in a church to redeem himself, when the 
 father of the church is kid napped. The hitman is then forced to pay a randsom and he gets the 
 money for the randsome by doing the jobs (see good flow and its only first minute of game)
  
  each mission is unique, and very fun. 
  
  I would strongly recommend all to buy this game 
 for the PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The bold guy has surprised me! I have no regret what so ever in saying that Silent Assassin the 
 best in the series!!! Whether it's plot or graphics. Eidos has taken a huge graphic and gameplay 
 leap from Hitman 1. Through out the game you are taken out to many places in the world and you 
 could tell that people and put alot of time and effort into it. The various enviroments are all 
 graphicly detailed. Each mission is carefully thought out and giving you many ways to complete 
 and play around with it giving it alot of replay value by coming and playing around with the mission 
 and doing them in different ways. The wide selection of equipment allows to you to have fun killing 
 people in different ways. Whether you like blasting with the m60 light machine or slitting someone 
 throat silently and dragging them into a warehouse Hitman2 is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionheart28
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  One of the revolutionary stealth gaming for its time that will surely satisfy your desires for 
 bloodsheds. Its all about killing, looking for the different ways to eliminate your targets without 
 being notice using silence in a strategic but brutal way & thats real fun about this game, mostly, 
 its different from other action game that you just keep firing and firing to the end.. hell no, 
 its being a silent assasin from disguising, tricking an enemy and sneaking.. a one of a kind great 
 game..
  
  the gameplay is awesome and as well as unique, and so the graphics, storyline and especially THE 
 AWESOME MUSIC,.. although something still missing or lacks from overall but they surely managed 
 to fill it in to Hitman: Blood Money, but still has those exaggerated happenings.. still, it doesnt 
 really bother as long as you follow the right process...
  *hitman series experience would never be complete without this*.. 
  
  Its about a hitman called 
 agent 47, A cloned professional assasin trying to make a better life living in a sanctuary, but 
 eventually, theres some people thats living the life of sin etiher for money or for selfish reason, 
 so 47 has been hired again to eliminate them... and so on..
  So... throughout the game, its all about strategic way of killing, deadly silence and brutality 
 up to the end...
  
  dont listen to some dumbass trying to compare this to blood money, of course blood money is way 
 better, because its newest in the series and they managed to add some better features..
  
  A Great innovative action stealth game that shouldnt be missed..
  its one of a kind....... c'',) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nibbels
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is definitely the best game in the series. The voice actor of Agent 47 
 has the perfect voice to represent the character. His voice is cold-blooded and at the same time 
 badass. The graphics are good enough for me. Now to the downsides: the blood seems like watered 
 down ketchup, which is fixed in Hitman: contracts, and the ragdoll clipping with other objects 
 is excessive, although it lets you take some funny screenshots. The problem about taking screenshots 
 is that you cant bind a key to the screenshot function and the default is too complicated (Ctrl+F12) , 
 at least for taking screenshots while doing something else, like walking or shooting. A very nice 
 feature of the game is the many approaches with which you can finish all missions. Lets take for 
 example the first mission Anathema (SPOILERS!!!) . You can either take down the mailman or the delivery 
 boy to go in undercovered as one of them, or you can just sneak in when the guard comes out to 
 pee. Another very nice thing about the game is the ranking system and the rewards you earn for 
 completing a mission with Silent Assassin ranking. In an overall view the game is great. If you 
 like stealth games, this one is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appleman78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2 is a game for people who have patience and love to be stealthy and sneak up to people 
 and stab or choke or even drug them. Also it is hard if u are going for the silent Assassin rank. 
 It is the type of game that you want to finsh it at least twice. If u pay this game it will give 
 u some memorable moments that will stay with u forever! Also the A. I are a lot smarter then most 
 other games. I just can not wait till i get hitmain blood money.
  
  Thank u for reading my review of hitman 2 Silent Assassin! From appleman78 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havok357
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is definitely the best game in the series. But what really puts it ahead 
 the others is the sound. Jesper Kyd and the Symphonic Orchestra of Budapest did a great job with 
 the soundtrack. The soundtrack is an essential part of a game, and I never liked a soundtrack so 
 much as I liked Hitman's. It passes the feeling of the game in a fitting way. The voice actor of 
 Agent 47 has the perfect voice to represent the character. His voice is cold-blooded and at the 
 same time badass. The graphics are good enough for me. Now to the downsides: the blood seems ketchup, 
 which is fixed in Hitman: contracts, and the ragdoll clipping with other objects is excessive, 
 although it lets you take some funny screenshots. The problem about taking screenshots is that 
 you cant bind a key to the screenshot function and the default is too complicated (Ctrl+F12) , 
 at least for taking screenshots while doing something else, like walking or shooting. A very nice 
 feature of the game is the many approaches with which you can finish all missions. Lets take for 
 example the first mission Anathema (SPOILERS!!!) . You can either take down the mailman or the delivery 
 boy to go in undercovered as one of them, or you can just sneak in when the guard comes out to 
 pee. Another very nice thing about the game is the ranking system and the rewards you earn for 
 completing a mission with Silent Assassin ranking. In an overall view the game is great. If you 
 like stealth games, this one is definitely worth playing.
  
  Obs: Im sorry for any grammar or spelling errors, as English is not my native language
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus1
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  There should be a great game in Hitman 2 Silent Assassin but horrible AI, with many graphical glitches 
 and some stability problems cripple a game that could have been a classic. 
  
  Well I overlooked Hitman 2 Silent Assassin when it was released in 2002, but after playing Blood 
 Money (an excellent game that is miles away from this game in quality) I decided to be brave and 
 give Silent Assassin a try. Man was that a BAD idea. I was first unimpressed by how tight and restrained 
 the game play felt. Secondly I noticed all the graphical glitches, this game is crawling with them 
 peoples limbs and sometimes half of 47s body disappears, guns go through floors and their shadows 
 rise over the floor. Weapons go through desks and AI gets stuck in positions momentarily. I kept 
 found my self asking where was the play testing? 
  
  My god the AI alone KILLED the game! In some missions if you walk past a NPC at the wrong angle 
 they would ever pull there weapon out and pump you full of lead or run for help who in turn would 
 pump you full of lead. Also they would get annoyed if you walked at the wrong spot in unrestricted 
 areas. They kept getting run over by trucks and cars and the game would blame 47 for their death. 
 Also they lacked the ability to put 2 and 2 together. In one mission you snipe a target from a 
 building using a SVD. After you fire and kill the target a solider runs into the room and looks 
 at you holding the sniper rifle with the spent cartridge at your feet he shrugs and walks off. 
 
  
  Sound wise the only problem is Dianas voice is VERY annoying at times and some of the weapons 
 sound fake. Controls take a little getting used to but feel fine after awhile. The save system 
 is fine. It takes a while to get hang of how to be a hitman but after awhile you get hang of it. 
 
  
  So lets sum this game up good idea massacred by AI. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobbra_Commande
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Very fun play it all the time almost as good as the splintercell series. Good graphics excelent 
 gameplay but the guy moves super slow when you are gonna sneak and kill.... So have Patience! But 
 it's a very creative game. Would only recomend to those who like to stalk wait then kill not just 
 run in with an AK and gun down everybody! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Silent Assassin allows players to once again assume the role of Agent 47 and take down your 
 targets in a fashion unlike you've ever experienced. This game is a Nasty Improvement over the original 
 and lets you immerse yourself in this fabulous world of Hitman Silent Assasin.
  
  STORY - Attempting to put his dark past behind, Agent 47 begins his new life as a gardener in a 
 church in Sicily. Unfortunately 47 is brought back in the world of crime when the Father of the 
 Church is kidnapped.
  Desperate to find Father Vittorio, Agent 47 contacts his agency which used to employ him and seeks 
 assistance.
  He then carries out missions for his agency. This basically comprises of Hitman Silent Assassin's 
 story.
  The Story is very well crafted and each and every character leaves a mark.
  
  GAMEPLAY - There is much freedom in terms of gameplay. You can accomplish the missions in a variety 
 of ways each of which are enjoyable.
  However a stealthy approach is much more fun. You can finish a job without even wasting a single 
 round of bullet if you carefully observe everything around you and plan your kill.
  There is also a suspicion meter which lets you see the level of suspicion of the guards. You can 
 disguise yourself or you could just hide in the shadows.
  Also the enemy A. I is a bit advanced. They are not to be fooled.
  They can see through disguises 
 if you behave irraticaly in front of them.
  There is a limit on the saves as well. The higher the difficulty the less saves you get. Thus you 
 have to be very careful while saving, Although this adds to the tension it can be a bit frustrating 
 as you might have to play it over and over again if you made some silly mistake.
  You are also given a rating after each level regarding how you carried out the mission. Rating range 
 from Mass murderer to expert to professional to Silent assassin (Which is the TOP) .
  The guns are realistic adding to realism in the game.
  All in all gameplay of Silent assassin 
 is a vast improvement over the original.
  It is gameplay of Hitman that makes this series different from other stealth games.
  
  GRAPHICS 
 - The game has fantastic visuals. Each level is highly detailed and is a masterpiece of Art. Shadows 
 are one of the best youll see.
  The physics are impressive and animations are also good.
  This game is pure eye candy and works smoothly on a low-end PC.
  
  SOUND - Awesome..
  Everything 
 from Gun Shots to Sound Track to Voice acting is just briliant.
  Sound track of the game is just too good to resist.
  Voice acting couldnt get any better. Civilians 
 and guards use their native language while in conversation.
  The ambience of the game is just perfect.
  
  GOODS - Open minded gameplay, Fantastic Voice 
 Acting , Variety in Missions, High Replay Value ,Awesome level designs , FPS mode.
  
  BAD - Difficult at times , Saving can be a problem.
  
  In the end i would say that Hitman Silent 
 Assasin is a game which leaves its mark and is a must buy for all gamers. It can give you some intense 
 but extremely enjoyable moments.
  However people who think games are a walk in the park will be proved wrong in this highly gripping 
 and intense game which is calledHitman Silent Assassin". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neighdawg
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 24, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  Hitman 2, i reckon is an extremely well made game. The gameplay fits in so well and the graphics 
 back it up really well. I usually buy cheaper and/or older games, and out of them all this game 
 rocks!!!
  
  A lot of people reckon Hitman is a violent game, when you go around blasting people's heads off. 
 Nope. I don't agree with that. Why? well the title, "Silent Assassin" tells you why. using tactics, 
 stealth and a bit of fun, you will eliminate your target, usually a murderer or a bad guy of some 
 sought. Using weapons like anesthitec, fibre-wire and scapels, you try to carry out missions. Now 
 stealth, is the key.
  
  Graphics- perfect animation for the kills, although a few gliches.
  Sound- lots of different 
 sounds and well done with EAX
  Gameplay- extremly smart tactics to fool your enemies. makes you laugh!
  Value-pretty long, some 
 very fun misssions, but down a little bit by a few boring missions.
  
  hope you guys like the review,
  Neighdawg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __Your-Master__
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series is all about innovation, and taking a tired bland style of play ( 3rd person 
 ) And making it exciting, and fresh. The premise of Hitman is instead of mowing down hordes of 
 enemy's, you only have 1, or 2 targets that you must assassinate in order to pass the mission. 
 There is usually other objectives, but this title says it all. ( Notice the words Hitman, and Assassin 
 ) 
  Although you do have the option to kill everyone on the level, its up to you, but in order to get 
 a Silent Assassin rating you must not shoot more than 3 shots, kill more than 2 guards, or one 
 civilian, so if you want that rating that solidifies you as a true assassin, you will need to use 
 stealth, knock out oppenents, take advantage of disgiuses, and much more, including maybe even 
 killing your target with a Piano Wire, not a gun, like you would think. You could even assassinate 
 someone with a golf club, it all depends on the situation, and for every situation you can do alot 
 of stuff. Nothing seems scripted, or forced.
  Speaking of disguises, Agent 47 is a master of disguise, despite the fact he is tall, pale, and 
 has a bar code on his head, he can get around, and pass thru areas seen as just a guard, or bystandard...
 
  The A. I is so so, sure they can tell suspicious behaviour, but they have a lack of commen sence, 
 but for a game of this age, it's pretty good...
  Now I will give you a rundown...
  
  Gameplay - It can range from incredible to boring. There are many segments where it seems you are 
 doing useless travel, and there are others that are action packed. The gameplay in this game is 
 truely unique though.
  
  Graphics - This game was made in 2002, and I can run everything on highest on my system, which 
 makes me happy, Sure it is no High End game, especially for todays standards, so if you have a 
 7800, lol, its overkill for this.
  
  Sound - Probably the best musical score for a game ive ever hered, besides maybe GTA San Andreas. 
 The Producer, Composer, and Chorus that put this together own.
  
  Value - What is it now $10? Just go get it.
  
  Tilt - I like thease kinda games to start with...
 
  
  SYSTEM SPECS & PERFOMANCE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  This is the specs for my 
 computer I played it on...
  
  Integrated ATI Graphics Card
  Onboard Integrated Sound
  P4 3.0 GHZ W/ Hyper Threading
  512 MB Ram
  15" Sony LCD ( 12 ms Responce time )
  
  Performance.
 
  
  I played it on Absolute Highest settings, no hiccups at all, with excellent crisp sound, so if 
 you bought your computer within' the past year there is no way it cannot handle this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UmaSama
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  It has all the things that made me finish Codename 47 (improved) and more.
  Keeps with the concept of the first game wich was by the way what I think made it a profitable 
 franchise, the graphics has gotten better and more polished, amazing sound, especially the music 
 and the sounds of the guns, the AI has improved but still need some work (I hope than in Hitman 
 Contracts this has been corrected) , 21 missions in total, wich could be divided in groups, the 
 majority were a lot of fun, some were ok, and maybe 1 or 2 were a dull.
  But despise the minor downsides this was one of the most addictive games I've played, it took me 
 5 days to finish, and less than 7 hours of total gameplay I think.
  In the end It's a major action game, that can be played any way you want, meaning that if you want 
 to be the "Silent Assassin" you can play it with all the strategy and sneaking of the worl, or 
 if you ratter you can take your .45 calliber Ballers or a nice SMG and blast your way through the 
 missions, attitude that will grant your the status of Butcher by the end of the assignemts, but 
 you'll get to pass to the next mission nevertheless.
  My advice to you is to give this great game a shot, you won't be disspointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldog19892
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Everyone's favorite bald-headed assassin is back in the fantastic game that the original should 
 have been. Hitman 2 is stylish and creative, despite it's violent subject matter.
  
  For it's time of release in 2002, these graphics are actually quite impressive. Textures are detailed, 
 lighting is realistic, and character models look generally great. The game has no distinct look 
 to it, as you are brought to many different parts of the world, though the one thing that (almost) 
 remains constant through the game is that the main character, Agent 47 himself, always dons his 
 black suit, red tie, driving gloves, dual hardballers, and shiny head at the start of every level. 
 One effect in the game which is now a necessity for all Hitman games is the rag-doll effects applied 
 to the red tie.
  
  The atmosphere of the game is stylish, yet in the background it's actually quite dark. The story 
 is that Agent 47 (you) has retired from his violent ways and now works at a church in Sicily as 
 a humble gardener, attempting to redeem himself in the eyes of the lord. But when his friend, mentor, 
 and priest Father Vittorio is kidnapped by the mafia, he vows revenge and has no choice but to 
 break out the Hardballers for another campaign of death.
  
  Hitman's style and graphics may be very impressive, but gameplay is where it truly shines. You 
 have a large arsenal of real world weapons to choose from, and some that aren't even considered 
 weapons, like the golf club. Hitman's two most unique weapons are the dual Hardballers and the 
 Fiber Wire that's used to strangle people from behind. Luckily you will find yourself using these 
 weapons often as they are both very effective. Weapons don't "evolve" in this game for lack of 
 a better word. You won't be using so-called smaller weapons and then get to the bigger ones because 
 most of the time you don't want to be marching around wielding large weapons around as you want 
 to be able to conceal your weapons. In fact, sometimes you might not even use your weapons much 
 at all.
  
  This is a stealth-action game, and obviously there is some stealth involved. The ability to kill 
 or knock out a person or guard and then take their clothes and go in undercover is probably one 
 of Hitman's key and most famous gameplay attributes.
  
  The sound is also great, with it's appropriate and well done orchestral soundtrack from veteran 
 game musician Jesper Kyd. The weapon sounds are realistic, and enhance the game's shooting action 
 a LOT. It just wouldn't be satisfying if the shotgun made a whoosh sound instead of a loud thud, 
 followed by great (if sometimes exagerated) rag-doll effects.
  
  Overall, Hitman 2 is a classic, and a guilty pleasure that many people can enjoy. It's controversial, 
 witty, and very well done. If you loved Grand Theft Auto, chances are you'll love Hitman 2 also. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuntman_hy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I always felt that the original Hitman lacked an essential ingrediant. It was all good but I didn't 
 really feel like I was playing as a professional contract killer. I felt more like I was just playing 
 as a tough looking guy who just so happened to be great with guns. Hitman 2: Silent Assassin provides 
 everything that was missing from the original game and more!
  
  Let's start with the contracts. In this game you will be given some great contracts, most of which 
 are incredibly fun. Every mission can be completed in multiple ways and it's up to you to discover 
 these. Unlike the first game, every single contract can be completed without being detected and 
 without killing anyone but the target/s. Although this is unbelievably hard, it is possible and 
 has it's rewards.
  
  After pulling off a contract, you will receive a rating depending on how 'clean' the job was done. 
 Enter the mission with guns drawn, looking like you mean business will get you a low rating. Some 
 people may find this more enjoyable but the 'Silent Assassin' rating is what you should really 
 aim for. This is the highest rating and to achieve this, you must be extremely stealthy. This means, 
 not triggering alarms, not killing anyone but the target/s, not taking too long and more.
  
  Gameplay is one of the games strongest points. After all, stealth games are all about gameplay. 
 The controls are perfect in my opinion compared to the original game. 47 will move around excellently 
 and you will feel like you are in total control of him. The action side of the game couldn't be 
 better. Firing a gun at someone is made easy with the game's gameplay engine. A new feature is 
 the first-person mode. You can instantly switch between first and third person modes at any point 
 during the game. Although first person may not be great while being stealthy, it will greatly improve 
 your shooting accuracy when trying to place those head-shots.
  
  The graphics can definitely not be complained about. They are better than most games of it's time 
 and still are today. The maps contain impressive textures and lighting which help the atmospheres 
 look as amazing as they are. The game has taken the brilliant rag doll physics from the first game 
 and made them better. Enemies will realisticly fly around when shot without any horrible death 
 animations.
  
  The sound in this game is great as far as sound goes. Gunshots will sound realistic as well as 
 the lovable sound of your target quietly and helplessly screeching as you wrap your fibre wire 
 around their neck. The soundtrack is one of the best I have ever heard in a game. The Budapest 
 Radio Symphony Orchestra did an amazing job in providing the game with some beautiful music.
  
  It has a pretty good story which slowly turns out to be pretty interesting. Although the story 
 is great, it seems to be the weakest point of the game. It doesn't really have a big affect on 
 the game but that is probably because Edios spent a lot more time on the missions and gameplay.
 
  
  The basic story is: The legendary Codename 47 has retired to Sicily where he resides at a church 
 with a priest who is one of 47's few trustworthy friends. When this friend is kidnapped by some 
 Italian mobsters, Hitman get's back in the Assassination business where he will perform contracts 
 in Sicily, St Petersburg, Japan, Malaysia, Nuristan and India.
  
  The story does turn out to be interesting but after you have been pulled into the first mission, 
 you will probably forget the story as you discover how fun the game actually is. The contracts 
 will require so much intelligence that you are almost forced into fully focusing on each contract. 
 You will face realistic problems as you search for the most convenient infiltration route.
  You will have to sneak past security which will involve stealing uniforms, disabling alarm systems 
 and distracting enemies.
  
  I recommend this game to all fans of action and stealth games! In fact I don't believe that there 
 is anybody in the world who hasn't at some point wanted to be an assassin. Well this game is probably 
 the closest you will come to becoming one (unless you are one) !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 14, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Hitman 2 is an old game but I bought it a few days ago after realizing that there's probably more 
 levels then the two demos I downloaded. I have to say that Hitman 2 is 100% awesome and disappointing 
 at the same time. You'll see why later on in this chunk of text.
  
  Gameplay wise Hitman 2 gives you variety. It's not a stealth game, and it's not an action game. 
 It's a hybrid, and I mean a true hybrid. Some "hybrids" are actually stealth games that try to 
 keep you going stealth all the time, and if you have to, get in a 10 second gun fight. That's not 
 the case with hitman. You get a wide array of weapons ranging from scapels, axes, swords, and pistols, 
 to M60s, Shotguns, Sniper Rifles, and other large and in charge guns. So it's quiet obvious that 
 the game doesn't mind which road you go on, but going stealth is normally a lot cooler and satisfying.
 
  
  There are a lot of different levels, I haven't beaten the game yet (There's a dumb glitch that 
 makes your sniper rifles no longer work, so I can't complete the mission) but I've seen my share 
 of variety. You'll go from Hospitals from foreign countries, to the streets of russia, and a building 
 that's owned by a lead hacker. Most of the levels are fun and this is the disappointing part of 
 the game. In the two demos I had, you were in an open place. It was easy to get a disguise (Taking 
 someone's clothes) and walking in carrying out your mission. However most of the missions you're 
 in some tightly kept government base so it's impossible to do anything. And even if you do take 
 someone's clothes they SOMEHOW figure out you're a hitman and try to kill you.
  
  So you don't get to do stealth as much as most people want to. But that's ok because run and gunning 
 is also in the game. They even have a first person view with close up gun models, reload animations, 
 and other things. It's fun for gunning down people but not for sneaking around.
  
  Lastly the graphics, for a 2001 game they're pretty good. All the animations look nice, the ragdoll 
 physics are in there, they're sort of extreme but it's still funny to see an enemy do a backflip 
 from a shot to the face. The only downside to this game is how you can rarely do stealth since 
 it's so hard to do it all the way, and how the AI magically knows certain things. Also a lot of 
 missions leave you in the dark, and you have to figure out what the hell you're suppose to do. 
 Which is annoying. I would suggest the game to anyone now though, it's only 5 dollars, or two dollars 
 if your lucky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabatman
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  This game was definitely the highlight of the series and had the most to offer in terms of depth 
 and demand for skill.
  
  Graphics: i loved the graphics and how they used differerent locations to show some variety.
 
  
  Difficulty: this game was so much harder than Contracts its not even funny.
  Also, some of the levels are so impossible to do stealthlike that you could never get silent assassin 
 on them, (although I'm sure some junkiees have done it)
  
  Gameplay: I had to map some of the controls to my liking but thats why you play it on PC right? 
 :)
  
  Story: Didn't really give a crap about the story its just fun to kill people however you want. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nt-Jerk
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  The first time I ever played any of the Hitman games, it was this one. I must admit I have never 
 gotten the first game, so it took a little time to get into the story. 
  
  I recall how hard it was at the first mission.. I simply didn't understand the way of this game. 
 So I took a lot of time to explore the different ways of getting into a mansion to kill some mobsters. 
 I tried busting in, but it didn't end up well. I had to try a whole lot more than one try, to bust 
 a mailman in a silent way. But still, they busted me. Maybe I should have hidden my gun, instead 
 of just walking around with it in my hand. :P
  
  But with time comes exp, and I must admit I got quite good.. :) Loved the many ways you could kill 
 your victim. I always tried to me a silent assassin as much as possible. Simply loved the feeling, 
 when I was able to walk away from a scene of crime, without anyone seing/noticing it. The perfect 
 kill. The doctor put silent to sleep with a pill in her water and then hid away in a closet, and 
 then just walking out, disguised as a simple male-nurse, walking by the guards and then getting 
 the hell out of there.
  
  You really get to live with the fear of getting caught.. You have to really feel the pulse beating 
 while sneaking around, because if one guy sees you and gets away, the whole mission has just gotten 
 a lot harder. 
  
  Gotta love this game - And I love it even more because it is a danish company who has made the 
 game, and there is a lot of danish details, like Kims Chips in the room of a total nerd.
  
  Hope you all enjoy it as much as I...
  
  \\Nt-Jerk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  One of Hitmans strongpoints! There are so manny diverse missions, each with their unique location 
 and several diffirent kill possibilaties. This really adds to the replay value.
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing special here. Just plain good. Some outstanding character design and nice 
 physics! One minor point, the level design is not functional enough. There are manny rooms wich 
 don't have anny special purpouse. Like in the mission anethema, there are manny empty rooms with 
 only a chair in it. Maybe they also didn't use enough diffirent textures. It sometimes get repetitive.
 
  
  Sound:
  A real strongpoint! The music is absolutely fantastic! The band and the choir are exelent and really 
 add to the atmosphere! The diffirent languages are also verry nice. Just because they didn't use 
 english with an accent fore the Russians and the Chinese!
  
  Value:
  Don't know what value is...
  
  Tilt:
  Must play more... Cant... stop... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Who hasn't given the thought of killing people? In Hitman: S. A., you can do that without getting 
 in trouble with the law...
  
  Basically, the story begins as the mentor of Agent 47, a priest is kidnapped by a Italian mob. 
 You have to find you friend but you find it hard to go back to the life you once lived..
  
  The missions are fun yet most feel abit linear than that of Contracts as Contracts features more 
 ways to kill your enemies than S. A. 
  
  Silent Assassin does improve dramatically on its on merits. The levels are easy to roam through, 
 that being by the map and not walking by the enemy.
  The enemy is alot smarter to point you out of the crowd yet they are a bit to smart. They made 
 the enemy freak out on nothing that you have done. In Agent 47, you had to stay by the enemy awhile 
 for him to notice you. In S. A., they for some reson can point you out quick like levels on the 
 Park Meeting and Anathema. It provides a challenge but can become quite unrealistic. Lets get to 
 the weapons though... the game features quite an array of weapons from the Spas-12 gauge and M-160 
 to your basic fibre wire and a fire axe. The game is fun on cheats and you can see yourself just 
 experimenting on the games with cheats than actually participating on the story.
  
  The game is only $10, and its worth every penny. If your looking for a challenge at a low price, 
 this is a great game. The enemy maybe a bit hard and a bit smart but get that silent baller out... that'll 
 shut him up!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasdaqw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Hitman 2 silent assassin is a good game but the same time has some problems . Hitman 2 is far better 
 than the 1st hitman game, codename 47 with more weapons and a better storyline. It's graphics are 
 pretty good and the gameplay also. The acting is also very good and the missions too. The game 
 has one problem also. If you kill wrong people sometimes you lose and there are not many ways to 
 kill your targets. It cannot be compared with the 3rd hitman game which is the best in the series 
 but if you are a hitman fan and haven't played it give it a shot.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HimHvoHitman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is very good in my opinion. Coming to all these different locations really 
 makes you wanna play more and more. From St. Petersburg to Japan to Nuristan and so on. Its designed 
 very well so that you can complete the missions in many different ways. No, thats not even true. 
 You can basicly complete your levels in two ways: 1. Sneak your way through. 2. Blast you way through. 
 Thats kind of f*cked up because if you have played Contracts then you know what you are talking 
 about when you say "many ways". You get in many very frustrating situations and that kind of ruins 
 some of the levels. There's not enough freedom for me to be happy. But still the gameplay is much 
 better than many other games. Also C47.
  
  Graphics: They are very well. Every time I play this game I go: Wtf could you make this kind of 
 graphics in 2002?! IMO its better than both C47 and Contracts. The lightning effects is just perfect. 
 When you see the sunshine falling down on 47s bald head it just makes you happy. And the weather 
 effects is also very cool. I really like the snow. It looks better than many new games snow to 
 me. Fantastic for a game made in 2002!
  
  Sound: This is one of the games really strong points! The music is so good. The "Budapest something 
 whatever choir" done this very good. The dark symphony music suits the game very very well. Though 
 I like the music in C47 the most.
  
  Value: You can play "the game" again and again but the levels is just not thought enough through 
 by IOI. I'm always ending up doing the same thing in the levels. As I said there is basicly two 
 ways. But an OK value, yes.
  
  Its a very good game. Not the best in the series in my opinion but yes it fixed many of the things 
 thats wrong in C47.
  -HHH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin808
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  f gg d gf dfg fd f f f f f f f ff f f f f ff ff f f f f f f f ff f f f f f f f f ff f f f f f f 
 f f f f f f ff f f f f f f f f f ff f f ff f ff f f f fg g g hf gdf h hf f f f f g g t ht t e f 
 dg f f fh g hg fh fg jfg j gf jfg
  
  G FFD DFH DF H DF HDF H DFH DF H DFH DF H DFH DF H DFH FH FHFHF
  
  
  YAY
  HOORAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  I bought this game out of the bargain bin for $4.99 and I this is a wonderful single player game. I 
 would rank it up there with Splinter Cell-Sam Fisher.
  
  The game is easy to navigate and the PC version isn't as difficult as most games when it comes 
 to figuring which buttons to run, duck, sneak, etc.
  
  In this next version your hidden away, well into retirement but somehow trouble just seem to find 
 47. You have to like a game that has a deep background and entangling storyline.
  
  The gameplay is smooth, you can play the stealth character of 47 or you can go in a guns a blazing, putting 
 fear in the people you have to kill to get to your target.
  
  Another fun aspect in this game is the ability to hurry up and drag bodies out of the way, take 
 the clothes of the guards and blend into the enviroment. How you carry yourself will determine if 
 you can casually walk in on your target or if the guards will notice you as the imposter you really 
 are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unidencito
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, puede ser jugado de varias formas, uno puede ser completamente silencioso 
 y solo eliminar al objetivo o puedes eliminar a todos, aunque ser silencioso trae recompensas como 
 nuevas armas. Si uno elige la ruta silenciosa se tiene que ser muy paciente y en algunas ocasiones 
 tendrs que repetir la misin varias veces hasta encontrar la forma de llegar a tu objetivo y no 
 solo tienes que preocuparte por llegar si no que tambin el escape tiene que ser silencioso, afortunadamente 
 el juego te permite salvar en cualquier momento, aunque solo te permite salvar siete veces por 
 misin.
  
  Los niveles son muy variados y se llevan a cabo en diferentes partes del mundo como Italia, Rusia, 
 Japn y Medio Oriente. Algunas misiones requieren que recuperes algn tipo de artefacto o llave, 
 otras te pedirn que plantes un dispositivo rastreador en el cuerpo del objetivo, algunas misiones 
 parecern imposibles de realizar, ya que el objetivo se encuentra rodeado de seguridad, afortunadamente 
 el seor 47, tiene la capacidad de usar disfraces o uniformes que encuentra en el sitio o tambin 
 puede dormir a un guardia y despojarlo de sus ropas, aunque este no es garanta de obtener acceso 
 al objetivo. Si uno escoge la forma agresiva de eliminar a todos los guardias y es herido, no se 
 puede curar, aunque Mr. 47, puede recibir mucho dao debido a que es producto de la manipulacin 
 gentica.
  
  Como eres un asesino profesional puedes usar una gran variedad de armas desde revolvers, escopetas 
 recortadas, veneno, rifles, etc. Aunque por lo general usaras armas que posean silenciador. Tambin 
 puedes moverte silenciosamente (aunque el movimiento es ms lento) permitindote llegar por la 
 espalda para dormir con cloroformo o asfixiar con un alambre de piano.
  
  La inteligencia artificial es buena, si te ven corriendo despertaras sospechas y si te detectan 
 tendrs a varios enemigos atacndote.
  
  El juego posee graficas claras y ntidas, el modelo de Mr. 47 y los otros personajes son bastante 
 detallados, los niveles son amplios aunque en algunos de ellos las texturas sufren de poco detalle. 
 El sonido ambiental y las voces son buenas, la msica le da un toque de suspenso a juego haciendo 
 que la experiencia sea mas intensa.
  
  En conclusin Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, es un titulo muy bueno que puedes jugar de varias formas, 
 esto le brinda al juego un alto valor para volver a jugarlo. Mi unico problema con el juego es 
 que si lo juegas en modo silencioso se puede volver muy frustrante, por lo que recomiendo que tengan 
 mucha paciencia. Si te gusta el suspenso, la accin y la estrategia, entonces este es un juego 
 que no puede faltar en tu coleccin. DENNY A.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game, I couldn't bring myself to stop. This game has so much to give to 
 a player, it has a good plot line, good graphics, fun action scenes and also a lot of stealth to 
 even fulfill the needs of a hardcore Splintercell fan.
  I played the first Hitman on the PC and was not too hapy with it really, so when Hitman 2 came 
 out I was reluctant to play it, but I gave in eventually and it was totally worth it. The first 
 mission was the classic tutorial which patronises you to a great extent, but then when the next 
 mission started i was hooked. Having to get past security quietly, killing anyone who gets in your 
 way or going in guns blazing are two ways of getting missions done, even though the second way 
 is a lot harder. At the end of each mission there is a rating on your stealth and agression, where 
 you could be a Professional or a Maniac, which is a nice touch.
  Basically this game is great fun, outdoes the first one in the series and is well worth buying, 
 even though ut takes hours to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Since the first one came out I wasn't sure of a sequel. Once this title was released I grabbed 
 one, and was shocked to find they did fix some things that held the first one back. The threat 
 meter was always a nice way to know how much in trouble you were sneaking around. This game prepped 
 me up for Thief actually. Helped me play both. It's something about sneaking around, and coming 
 up behind someone for the kill. I definitely like this game and its on my top 10 list of all time 
 favorites. The graphics have totally improved from the first one. The animations have increased. 
 The lighting, and shadows have definitely come a long way. The dual weapon hold was a great feature 
 I think. This title introduced me to this for the first time, and loved it. I like how they improved 
 the rag doll look of the bodies as they fall after you waste them. The first one looked so weird. 
 Adding that you can shoot them after their dead, and their body still moves is a great attention 
 to detail in my book. I like things like that. especially things that no one would normally care 
 about. Maybe not in this game but things like dust glinting in the window from the moonlight hitting 
 it from outside (Thief) . This game rocks as usual. I became a Hitman fan since I first seen this 
 game. I just hope they don't screw it up with the movie. Do it right please!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I don't own this game, but i've played both demos. I think this game is one of the best strategy 
 and shooting games. The levels are exciting because you travel around the globe. The music and 
 graphics are the best elements of this game. It also has great voice talent. The people speak very 
 good Italian and German. I also liked how its like Splinter Cell and Halo. You can be stealthy 
 or you can be combatic. The only downside is the physics. The enemies don't really move a whole 
 lot if you kill them, they just lie there. Overall, its a super leap forward aside from its prequel. 
 Just improve the physics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tears_in_hell
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The almost complete lack of A. I. ruined the game for me. Although the game is almost totally based 
 around stealth tactics, its hard not to get frustrated when some fella in a wooley hat starts shooting 
 you for no reason, even when your in FULL disguise and what not.
  
  The ragdoll physics make the game highly entertaining however, and the wide arrange of weapons 
 keep the game interesting from beginning to end.
  
  ALSO the storyline is quite descent, and thus the game becomes more interesting and immersive,
 
  
  I also like the idea of being able to kill a main target in many different ways suiting to your 
 style of play. unfortunately however there usually the same ways like, poison or snipe.
  
  overall the game is worthe buying and is also better than contracts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 070758
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Silent Assassin has this good storyline where the priest gets kidnapped. i like the part 
 where 47 pulls out double silverballers from his briefcase. you can play all the missions in many 
 ways and replay value is very high. gameplay is great. graphics for a 2002 (i forgot which year... just 
 guessin) game is really good, its graphics may be better than 25 for life (such a crap game) and 
 close to GTA: SA. sound is good, with Jesper Kyd's catchy soundtrack. ya so i give da tilt 8 cuz 
 its 8 9 10 wuteva bla bla blal bla bla how immature can i get bla bla bla bla oh well im 13 bla 
 blal bla blab 07075807075807057 5037503285t wuteva im outta here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchineseboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  hitman silent assassin is one of the greatest games in the world in my opinon. the game is another 
 part of the first one. there are alot of improvements from the first one. you can save anytime 
 you want to or when you die you dont have to start all over again. and the weapons look way better. 
 my favorite is the ballers and the 9mm. your are graded off on how silent your are or how you kill 
 the target or not. when i played i killed the target silently but you can chose which way to kill 
 him or her. never the less you can go in blasting everything if you want. but i tend to have more 
 fun doing it silently. i think you would find this game one of the top tens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Hitman was a difficult game to digest. It featured a highly original concept but poorly done by 
 some annoying aspects: lack of a save game feature and complicated controls.
  
  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin comes along to fix it all and finally make a fun and challenging experience 
 worth your time and best of all, your money.
  
  The game picks up right after the original. 47 is keeping a low profile in Sicily, tending the 
 garden of a church and has befriended the priest, Father Gegorio. All is well until one day the 
 good father is kidnapped by the local mafia and 47 is forced to contact the Agency to pick up information 
 and try to rescue the good man. Unfortunately for him, and good for us, the Agency isn't giving 
 the info for free, making 47 do some dirty jobs to pay the help back. You'll be doing hits, killing 
 crime bosses, hackers, businessmen and even a Saddam Hussein and Osama Bin Laden look-alikes!
 
  
  And doing the hits will be as fun as heck since you'll have a bunch of weapons available, not including 
 the multiple paths you can take and the weapons you find along the way. By the way, all weapons 
 you find and take to the end of the missions will be made available for future and past (replay) 
 missions, through your handy tool-shed that was converted to a weapons cache.
  
  In this game you'll finally get the chance to save the game in the middle of the missions. The 
 catch will be that you have a limited amount of chances of doing so. And in the highest difficulty, 
 you won't get a chance to save. Also, after each level you'll be graded depending on your stealth, 
 detection, shots fired, killing anyone and etc. You'll get some anaesthesic, so you can drug drones 
 and only kill the main target. But be careful, it comes in small amounts, so choose your targets 
 carefully and make sure no-one sees your action, because if they do, your disguise will be useless.
 
  
  Graphics-wise, the game is really detailed and looks good on all of the platforms. Rag-doll effects 
 run wild here, you'll be able to drag and drop bodies as you please, and guns will send people 
 flying, believe me.
  
  The cutscenes look awesome and the soundtrack is done by Kid Jasper and the Budapest Symphony Orchestra, 
 so you know you'll enjoy it. The controls can take a while to get used to, but once you do, you'll 
 feel right at home, at any console or configuration for a PC pad.
  
  The game is so good and fun that is recommended to anyone remotely interested in the subject. And 
 the price is low now, so you don't have a excuse not to own this.
  
  Thanks you reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, they really improve this game. I mean I played the first one which wasn't good but 
 not bad. But hitman 2 has became a fantastic action game that will make the hitman series do very 
 well. The improvements that hitman 2 did is that they improved the diffitculty, the A. I. is more 
 smarter and that this game does have a lot of cool weapons. Although in order to play this game 
 you have to be a very patient person. Because hitman 2 is a big stealth game. But that doesn't 
 matter. If you want to kill a lot of people if you want to do gta style, you can do that you won't 
 fail the missions. Unless if you die in the game. If you actually liked the first hitman or a gamer 
 that is looking for a action game. Here it is, Hitman 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2 is a great Hit that would give much fun and pleasure to everyone who plays it... perfect 
 graphics with so much excel and precision; I was very amazed by the great details in each level 
 I played. The game play is in itself a world of fun since you got much freedom to do whatever you 
 see fit to complete your missions (much of execution!!) . Hitman2 provides you with many possibilities 
 to finish each level, which is amazing and rare to find in most other games. The sounds and music 
 used is very nice and it brings a style to the game. Really, i was stunt by such beautiful graphics 
 and fun game play that made me consider Hitman 2 as the role-model that should be followed because 
 it is a real deal!! I forgot to mention that the story is also very astonishing !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahg2426
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2 is a great mix of Splinter Cell, Manhunt, and Max Paine, with some great original game 
 play. Hitman 2 has a mix of stealth action combat with some first person shooter aspects that make 
 for solid game play. Hitman two brings you back to the shoes of Agent 47, who's come out of retirement, 
 to save his freind who has been kidnapped. Agent 47 needs some help finding the priest so he turns 
 to the agency. Of course in order for for the agency to help, he'll have to go on several assassination 
 missions for them. Overall if you are a fan of the series, or if you want become one, i suggest 
 that Hitman 2 : Silent Assassin is the place you start, considering that the first installment, 
 wasn't that great. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruteDux
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most perfect games I ever played. Its good in everything, graphics, sounds. 
 Musics are almost absent, but it's just to keep the stealth way. You need to have pacience if you 
 want to play. You'll have to wait 15 minutes to kill a guard and 1 hour to kill an important person. 
 If you like Splinter Cell and other stealth action games, you have to play this one. You'll have 
 to use your brain and make the most elaborated plans to get into houses, kill Mafia bosses, etc. 
 And don't worry... God will forgive you! 
  
  Check it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Simply put this game has wonderful gameplay, allowing you to approach missions from multiple angles. 
 You can go in guns a blazing and get the Mass Murderer rating, or quietly knock out a guard, don 
 his apparel, then sneak up on the target and strangle them with your fiber wire. Or also sneak 
 into a position to require only one shoot to complete your mission and get the Silent Assassin 
 rating, and get wonderful toys such as Silenced Ballers, a Sawed-Off Shotty, and an M4 Carbine 
 Rifle. Plus the pleasure of simply taking the target out and leaving everyone wondering who, what, 
 where???? is very pleasurable in of itself.
  
  Graphics still hold up quite well even by today's standards, and for when it was released the graphics 
 I'm sure were very good. 
  
  Sound is one of the game's more apparent flaws. Good voice acting, but it seems like a lot of the 
 voices are rehashed over and over and over again. Even the voice acting of Agent 47 seems kind 
 of boring. But overall the local sounds, music, and voices are good, but not great. Oh and the 
 guns, especially the higher power sniper rifles and pistols sound a little underpowerd, and all 
 the silenced guns sound the same....
  
  Value, able to be replayed multiple times due to the yearning to get Silent Assassin all throughout, 
 or just to see how else you can kill everyeone. No multiplayer is a down, but how you would do 
 multiplayer for this type of game seems odd. However, looking at Splinter Cell (from nowadays standpoint) 
 it can be done.
  
  Overall a good game, with great graphics, gameplay, good sound and value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalXIII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Hitman 2 is amazingly fun, all the levels let you choose your own ways. Do it stealthy or go in 
 gun blazing. Creative ways to kill your targets and you will want to levels over and over untill 
 you got them memorized. Tons of guns and when you finish the level all the new guns you have will 
 be sent to your home, Its where you start before every mission. 
  
  One thing I dont like though is the fact that people are always suspicious about. It gets really 
 annoying and can get you caught all the time, its like they know you are a imposter.
  
  I like the ragdoll efects too, they are neat and also lots of blood. The game is only like $10 
 so go try it out untill Blood Money comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gupta_dune
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Great FPS which has the potential to immerse you in the gameplay and there are many reasons which 
 stand to testify this. First of all this game is basically different from the contempory FPS games (UT, Quake) 
 which involve mindblowing carnage which is basically mindless doesn't press on you to utilise your 
 brains.
  Hitman 2 : Silent Assasin as a change brings in fresh air of newness and experimentation with it; it 
 allows you to complete the missions that are based on a fantastic storyline in a way that suits 
 your style/mood. You can either win a mission as a 'mass murderer' (make a lot of mess) or as a 
 'silent assasin' (sly as a fox) and many other more ways that come in between these two styles. While 
 you try to complete mission as a 'Silent Assasin' you have to constantly be careful and aware of 
 your decisions that you take in the game. You really have to apply your common sense and logic to 
 find a way so as to finish your mission without making widespread graffitis from blood .
  Playing this game is also great because graphics and the detail is great which might leave you 
 in awe at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  You sit in the rafters, waiting for someone to show up to a meeting. You get to the point that 
 boredom is about to set in until you see him. He matches the picture you have, so you line up your 
 SVD Sniper Rifle. Within a second, you see the body hit the floor. You drop the gun and book out 
 the back door. Before anyone knows that you were there, you are strolling to the exit. Like a ghost 
 in the middle of the night, you are invisible, you are Agent 47.
  
  That seems like a simple description above, but it is because Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is a game 
 that is difficult to describe. Hitman 2: Silent Assassin continues the exploits of Agent 47 from 
 the first game. We find our hair challenged assassin working at a monastery, trying to amend for 
 his killing ways. But in the blink of an eye you world is turned upside down as the monestary is 
 ambushed and the priest that has befriended you is kidnapped. To seek him out, you turn to the 
 only people you know that can find him  The Agency. They are willing to help, but at the cost 
 of getting you back in the field as a Silent Assassin.
  
  The game plays out its semi-linked story over 20 missions. I say semi-linked, because after awhile, 
 the game does not seem connected to the main story that you start out with. At the end, it seems 
 like a rushed way to conclude the story. The story is good, but it just feels like you could of 
 left the priest backdrop out of it and it would not of made a single bit of difference.
  
  Missions are a lot of fun and that comes from two gameplay mechanics. The first is the way that 
 the game allows for you to complete missions in so many ways. A good example is a mission where 
 you have to infiltrate a building to get to a hacker. You could just go in guns blazing. Or you 
 could sabotage the alarm system to get to the secured elevator. Maybe silence a guard and use his 
 uniform as a disguise to get past security. Or my way, setting off the fire alarm and stealing 
 a firemans uniform to get past security. The way you complete the mission leads into the second 
 mechanic and that is your mission rating. The more you can stay out of site and without disturbing 
 people, the better your rating. The best rating that you are shooting for is Silent Assassin. This 
 means no kills but the main target and not putting anyone on alert. It is a tough assignment for 
 sure.
  
  Graphics in the game are top notch and work quite nicely. The character models look nice and the 
 physics in the game are phenomenal. When you walk through a curtain or a window blind, it moves 
 with such a realistic feel. Same goes for bodies when they fall. The only really bad thing with 
 the graphics is that in todays world, they are a bit too angled and untextured. But taking the 
 age of the game into consideration, the graphics are good. Also the backgrouds and levels themselves 
 look great. You really get a feel for the locations that you are in and that they could be based 
 on real places.
  
  Sound is another thing that is really good in this game. The weapons all sound nice and like a 
 real world weapon. Background music is by Jesper Kyd and has a good sound to it. It does not get 
 in the way of the game play at any time and actually compliments it quite nicely. I did feel that 
 character voices outside of Agent 47 were a bit bland and sounded like they were phoned in. No 
 one seemed to care about the characters they were playing. It does not take away from the game, 
 but it made it a bit less enjoyable.
  
  Mission AI is amazing and this in itself is quite nice. People will hear bodies hit the ground 
 if you kill them by shooting or wire roping them. If guards find a body, they go on high alert. 
 They will patrol and try to find the intruder. They duck and use cover. Problem is that this behavior 
 is triggered by sight. If they dont spot you, you can take people out at ease. I found this out 
 with the modified sniper rifle you get towards the end of the game. You can start taking people 
 out at ease with that thing because they never see you coming. Civilians will also get suspicious 
 of your movements and notify authorities when they feel it warrants it.
  
  The missions themselves range from easy to stupendeously difficult. You will find some missions 
 will require you to do them over and over. Sometimes this will lead to frustration. I know there 
 were a couple of times that I was ready to throw in the towel. But remember to study and use your 
 map. If you do that, and take the time to think about it, you will find a way to beat every mission. 
 It just takes some thought and determination.
  
  As a whole, the game succeeds in making you feel like you are a hitman. And you learn quickly that 
 silence is the best mode of operation. You can crash the doors in a blaze of glory and bullets, 
 but you will most likely end up dead with a restart. And the use of limited saves will make you 
 think twice about lighting it up. Thats right, you can actually save in mission in this Hitman 
 game. That was one of the biggest flaws in my opinion with the last game and it has been corrected 
 in a good way. Instead of letting you save after every movement as some are prone to do, they give 
 you a certain amount of saves depending on your difficulty level. You can get extra saves on a 
 mission by performing certain deeds. One mission lets you gain an extra save by saving a hostage. 
 Just another improved tool to make the Hitman 2, a more enjoyable experience.
  
  Overall, the game is a must have for any person that is a fan of stealth action or looking for 
 a game that makes you think before you act. It will frustrate you at times, but overall, it is 
 a well designed sequel that improves on the original and adds some new flavor to the formula as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceoaces
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I've never enjoyed a 3rd person video game so much as this one. The plot line is linear, which 
 I've never enjoyed, but how you do each mission is pretty much unrestricted. If you have a good 
 gun and don't care for the formalities you can just kick in the front door and gun down everyone 
 between you and your target. Or you can employ some brain cells (not my idea of fun, but it's all 
 good) and take down your mark like a pro. I remember on this one mission you have to get past security 
 by throwing a smoke grenade down a laundry shoot and then dressing up as a fireman when the alarm 
 sounds. Brilliant! And there's nothing even pointing to that strategy. The only reason I even know 
 about it is because of some walkthrough. Point is, this game appeals to all IQ's. However you want 
 to play it, it's there for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mydral2005
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  Hitman 2 is highly enjoyable game which gives you multiple choices to complete your missions, be 
 it to go in like a ninja not beeing seen or killing everything in your sight, the game offers both 
 and its up to you what to do. Nice options also include in killing people silently using silent 
 guns or wires. Once you killed a person you should hide him so he does not get seen by others. 
 You can even take his cloths to have a disguise, but be warned if the body gets found or you behave 
 wrong they will know that your a hitman. 
  
  The missions mainly consist of assasinations, which is a no brainer when you read the name of the 
 game.
  
  The graphics are abit outdated for today but still look nice. I suggest that you buy this game 
 and give it a try. 
  
  It also has replay value since you can always reload missions and try to do them without beeing 
 detected, which is pretty hard in some cases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondokid
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, yeah, yeah!!!
  As everyone says "HItman is the best, Hitman is the best...." THEY R ALL LIE!!! Everyone told me 
 to get Hitman 2. But the game isn't really good even bad. The graphics r like ps games. Also the game 
 is boring! there r no really good actions in the game!!!!!! The controls r very bad!!
  They dont have many action buttons. He can't run very fast and the story is like mario u dont know 
 what is happening. DO NOT BUY THIS GAMEEEE!!!!
  Get something better! Like GTA or something else. But not HITMAN. I dont know why do those people 
 likes this game? I mean nothing is good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jur2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent assassin generally combines two factors: Stealth and "shoot-'m-as-they-come". 
 Primarily, you have to sneak into the enemy base using a guard uniform or another dusguise, complete 
 the special objective, kill your target with your Silenced 8mm handgun, and get the hell out before 
 the guards get you. If that plan fails, grab your ballers or your Deser Eagle and shoot the guards 
 as they come. So, basically:
  
  The good:
  -Nice and stealthy. Finally something different from the known "Grab a gun, shoot everything that 
 breathes and if you die quickload" tactic.
  -Feels good. Your mouseclicks combine well with the sounds, and you have to click a single time, 
 for a single shot.
  -Levels finishable in multiple ways. You can for example choose a side path to knock the light 
 out and get nightvision. This way the guards won't see you... but you will see them.
  -A very, very wide variety of weapons. About 3 snipers, 6 handguns, 6 melee weapons, and about 
 5 rifles. Total = 20.
  -Looks like the movies. You make a silenced headshot, drag your dead man into the broom closet, 
 take his clothes and sneak into the base.
  -The mood. Really quiet, "let's get down to businnes"-ish. The mood in St. Peterburg was really 
 feelable! You could oversee the city. It was one big texture allright, but it was placed far away 
 from your position, so that was hardly noticable. Further from that, you could see smoke coming 
 out of chimneys and stuff. Definite plus.
  -One difficulty for everyone. I played the professional (hard) mode, wich was quite challenging 
 for me. I've had tons of more expreience with shooters. If you're just a casual gamer, go for normal 
 (easy) mode. If you're more than that, go for expert (medium) , and if you're quite the gamer, go 
 for professional.
  -Graphics, that is, for the time it was made.
  -Compatibility with older systems. I have an old system (AMD 800 mhz, Nvid. Gefrc. 400 mx/mx) and 
 it ran almost without page flipping. Ofcourse, it did flip a bit on larger areas, but that's my 
 system, not the game.
  
  The bad:
  -Only 2 saves per level. I understand that that's here to make it harder, or in other words, not 
 too easy on us, but if you die you have to do a whole big part all over again.
  -These ragdolls are insane!! shoot them 3 times with your .50 Ballers and they - litterally - fly 
 back about 5 - 10 meters.
  -Noob Ai. If you're standing there, with a gun in your hand, with 5 body's on the floor, the guard 
 will still not understand he has to SHOOT YOU.
  -Unrealistic health. You'll only die like after 10-20 gunshots. Though i understnad that covers 
 up the fact that you have only 2 saves per level.
  -I had to put my mouse sensitivity to 20 to make this game playable. Normal is 1. That wouldnt 
 be a problem if my sniper rifles wouldnt react so heavily to this. move your mouse 1 mm right, 
 and your sniper goes about 10 degrees right. Not very accurate.
  -Mediocre story and voice acting.
  -If you're a gamer that has had more experience in shooters, 
 this game is quickly played out. 20-40 hours.
  
  So, the bottom line: a good game with lots of variety, stealth, a good mood and different tactics. 
 The story and voice acting could use some work, plus the realism and the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntonioMontello
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent Assassin is clearly one of the greatest games ever invented or even thought of! 
 The things you can do in this game are intense. You play the role of Agent 47, a super clone assassin. 
 47 works for a hit contracting agency that finds you targets to assassinate. All of these targets 
 have some sort of connection to the criminal underworld. These are high paying targets; you must 
 do what you can to eliminate them quickly and with great precision. There are numerous ways of 
 completing a 'hit'. You can poison your targets food to kill them without any alarm. You can be 
 hundreds of yards away with a silenced sniper and assassinate him silently but lethally. But dont 
 think there is only one man to whack. Dont forget about their security guards! These dedicated 
 guards can be eliminated in many ways. You can eliminate them silently with fiber wire, by choking 
 them, or you can use an anesthetic to knock them out for a little while. Then you can drag their 
 bodies to hide them from any other guards suspicion. Is there a guard dress code? It wouldnt 
 hurt to steal a guards clothing to sneak in the building without causing panic! Just borrow a 
 guards uniform and you can walk around the current area without alerting the enemy to your presence. 
 What good is a Hitman without a variety of weapons? This game, Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, has a 
 massive variety of weapons! From snipers, to silver balers, to shotguns, to any other sorts of 
 weapons and assassin would get his hands on. The story of this game is so deep and passionate; 
 it will pull you right into the game! I suggest this game to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inimene006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  When I played Hitman 2 first time (at my friends place) , then I thought, that its the best game 
 in the world. I was always thinkin' about it: in the morning, dinner, before and after lunch, before 
 sleeping and even in my dreams... yeah, i was sick. Anyway, I didn't have any PC at that time, 
 so I watched hitman's pic's on schools computer. Now, when I have my own PC, I still dont have 
 it. i haven't found it from stores, and i havent found it from the internet. i play demo sometimes. 
 But i dont want it so much anymore. I have some better things to do with my PC than playing. well, 
 sometimes I play, of course. but the funnest thing is downloading and having the games.
  
  inimene006
  (person006) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comdr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The whole thing from start to finish was just frustrating but in a good way. I liked going back 
 and trying it from different angles to see what the outcome was. I'm not really that sick and/or 
 twisted but it was great fun having the option to garrote someone. The Sniper option is another 
 fav of mine. Only once before did I enjoy using the sniper mode more and that was with Project 
 I. G. I in a chapter called 'God' - good name (checkout IGI if youhaven't already) . It kept me on 
 my toes all the way through. I hope to see more from 47. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Jax
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I like this game for many reasons. First off I like the free roam during missions although it is 
 by no means GTA its got a very free roam enviorment not like in some games where you go down one 
 passage way hallway ect... and im not saying thats bad just I like for this game how you have the 
 ability to take multiple routes. Also this game has one of the best arsenal of guns ive seen in 
 quite some time from his classic and symbolistic handballers to the m4. Also very realistic weapons 
 the guns carry the right amount of ammo and fire the right way like when you fire a 44 you feel 
 the recoil and can see the recoil. Last but not least the cinematic and neat little weapons or 
 ways to use them are cool like for example theres apart when your at a hotel and theres a gun waiting 
 for you in the flower shop in a box of roses when you get it you get to pull the gun out in the 
 cool way such as in terminator 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 10, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Agent 47 entered the gaming world trough Hitman: Codename 47, which is a brilliantly well balanced 
 game. You controle a mass-copied hitman which is number 47 in the line. There is by no doupht something 
 special about this copy. In Hitman 2, agent 47 is living in a monestary with a prest. He's turned 
 to a nicer, religious man. But will soon have to turn to his old killing self. 
  
  The visuals is not the best on the market but is has no flaws. Light effects and real realistic 
 blod is some of the graphical features in Hitman 2. 
  
  The music is maybe the best I've ever heard in a game. The music that's in the russian missions 
 is maybe the best of them all. I got goosepumpers when this brilliant sound track came over my 
 speakers during on of the first missions. The sound effects is also great. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as in Hitman: Codename 47. But now there's even more choises 
 to make during your missions. How can I get into that building without beeing noticed? Will the 
 alarm go of if I shoot down this guard? This is some of the questions that will pop up during playing 
 this game. 
  
  + 
  Brilliant music which may be the best I've ever heard in a any video-game. The visuals is good. 
 Changing clothes to trick enemies is a great feature in both Hitman: Codeman 47 and Hitman 3: Silent 
 Assassin. 
  
  - 
  A real idiotic saving system, which could have had the same system as any other shooter on the 
 market. The bullets move to slow! Believe it or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_get_up_kid
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  by far this is my favorite hitman. the sound track is amazing also which brings everything together. 
 this is one game that can be played over and over again. im sure over time they will make things 
 so much better with new ways to kill and sneak... but this is a hard one to beat. the levels seemed 
 to go on and on in a good way. getting caught by enemies when recognized as an intruder is alot 
 easier now. you have to go out of your way by a mile not to get caught. the hardest level in the 
 game was the japanese snow castle. trying not to get shot by snipers was hard. having to time the 
 movements of the guards and enemies is important to this game. you can spend alot of time waiting 
 and memorizing their movements especially if you want the silent assasin rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a great stealth game. It doesn't have to be stealth and you can make the game wahtever 
 you want it to be, either a perfect assasin or a mass murderer. That's what is so great about this 
 game, the variety. The levels are very well designed and offer some great challenges as well as 
 a number of different ways of completing your mission without being caught, as well as a multitude 
 of ways to do things with guns blazing. Sound has nice music to get you in the game and the graphics 
 are pretty good, but typical of an IO game, they look kind of cartoonish. Still gameplay is great 
 and implementing different guns and poisons and knives and bombs is alot of fun. Just playing your 
 favorite levels over gives you the replayability and the chance at perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigothemanny
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 4, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  The main problem with this game is the way they tried to make it easier than the first; the result 
 is far too easy. Most of the levels you can just run and shoot your way through, which is undoubtedly 
 what most gamers will do. That's unfortunate. The first was so much better than the average 3d 
 shooter, whereas this is just on the level of a regular 3d shooter. Apart from the sub-standard, 
 far too easy gameplay, the game is pretty much the same as the first, with hardly anything new 
 to offer. The new features are rarely used, as they mostly just assist you in one way or another 
 when blasting away enemies, which is weird, as the first game, and, according to the makers, this 
 one too, is about avoiding shootouts, and not just throwing everything you've got at the enemies. 
 I have to compliment them on the satellite map feature, that is something the game really benefited 
 from. The new weapons are only pretty well-selected and entertaining to use. The level design is 
 pretty good, not the best, but definitely not the worst I've ever seen either. The graphics are 
 excellent; not only are they nearly totally perfect, they also require relatively little of the 
 computer, so most people will be able to run it flawlessly, whilst still being able to enjoy good 
 graphics. The levels and gameplay, unfortunately, rely on the principle of quantity over quality, 
 which I've always felt was supposed to be the other way around. I'd rather have the game only had 
 12 levels, like the first, and have them all be good, than 21 levels where nearly every single 
 one of them is boring and easy to beat, like this one. The story seems a little too much like it 
 was just made up to make a sequel to the first, whereas the first had a thoroughly brilliant story. 
 The game takes about the same time to beat as the first, 4-5 hours or thereabouts. Of course, it 
 might take longer if you insist on playing it through perfectly. If that's the case, then I have 
 no idea how long it will take, as I honestly haven't bothered beating the game while really trying 
 hard, as there's hardly any reason for it, other than the personal satisfaction of it. Overall, 
 it's an OK followup to the first, but I'd recommend just playing the first one on a harder difficulty, 
 or trying to beat your personal record on how quickly you can beat the first, rather than playing 
 this game. I recommend this only to people who loved/liked the first, and who either found it too 
 hard, or who don't mind playing something similar that is ten times easier to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sampas88
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2005 11:55 pm PT
Review:  What a treat its been to step back into 47s shoes. I had forgotten how mesmerizing the gameplay 
 of the original Hitman was, but the sequel certainly brought it all back for me. This is just one 
 of those games that swallows me whole and really allows me to immerse myself in the role. I cant 
 say enough about the game, but Im going to try.
  
  At the beginning of this new chapter in the Hitman series, our mysterious anti-hero, 47, is shown 
 tending the gardens of a church in Sicily. The scene follows him making his way to the church where 
 he confesses his sins to his new mentor, Father Vittorio. 
  
  You quickly realize that 47 has given up his profession for some time now and is seeking forgiveness 
 from God. From this point, the rest of the game involves you tending the garden lovingly each day, 
 providing the plants with plenty of water and sunlight, only taking breaks to confess your sins 
 and say prayers  I hope no one just bought that.
  
  The reality is, Vittorio is kidnapped immediately after the confession scene, and you are forced 
 to ask your former agency for help in locating him. In exchange, you agree to help them out with 
 a hit. Well, of course one hit isnt going to be enough, so you will soon find yourself making 
 hit after hit in your notorious 47 fashion.
  
  The original Hitman was criticized for its unforgiving difficulty, so the most important feature 
 of this sequel is that the gameplay was made much more accessible to players. You can now save 
 during levels, you are given more options and freedom to make your hit, and you have a revamped 
 interface to make your job easier. 
  
  I was almost disappointed that they included in-game saves because I thought it would take away 
 from the excellent tension that the game builds for you, but I found the game to have just as much 
 tension with the saves, minus the frustration. The saves are limited though, so you have to use 
 them cautiously. The number of saves youre allowed depends on which difficulty youve selected 
 to play. You can have at most 7 saves during a level on the easiest difficulty.
  
  My favorite addition to the gameplay was the enhanced freedom. In some of the missions youll have 
 to find a pickup point, where the agency has left weapons for you to carry out your task. In one 
 particular mission, you need to take out two targets that are meeting in a park. The agency supplies 
 you with a sniper rifle and two car bombs, allowing you two separate methods for killing. 
  
  If you decide to snipe your targets, the map shows you two destinations that should provide 
 you with great line-of-sight. If you want to use the car bombs, you can traverse the sewers to 
 plant one bomb on a car thats directly over a man-hole. There are other man-holes by the second 
 car, but youll need to be disguised in order to plant the other bomb. Luckily, the driver goes 
 to relieve himself behind a building right next to one of these man-holes, allowing you to take 
 him out, steal his clothes, and plant the bomb without any suspicion.
  
  The map is the second addition that Ive really come to appreciate. Youll have maps for every 
 location you can explore during a mission. The map has a legend that details any enemies, any targets 
 you need to protect, and your main targets. All character symbols will move on the map, plotting 
 their exact locations, allowing you to see their patrol patterns without leaving yourself vulnerable. 
 Besides that, the map also shows off elevators, stairs, pickup points, points of interest, and 
 locations you need to reach in order to finish the mission.
  
  As in the original, youll be able to access your laptop for mission briefings, videos, and photos. 
 Your objectives will also be listed for you, checked off if already completed. Youll also receive 
 audible alerts during the mission with text messages when you complete an objective, if guards 
 find a body, if guards are looking for a suspicious individual, etc. 
  
  Speaking of guards, their intelligence in this game is a little more advanced. Its much harder 
 to sneak up behind someone now and use your trusty fiber wire  if they see you coming, they usually 
 wont let you out of their sight. Guards will now check your ID if you let yourself get too close 
 to them and they dont recognize your face. 
  
  Taking a disguise that covers your face better ensures you wont be suspected though. Innocents 
 that see you will run to guards and alert them to you and youll have the entire guard staff gunning 
 for you. Just remember that every action has a reaction in this game and the developers have accurately 
 created the characters to behave in such a way.
  
  To complement the more rigorous A. I., a suspicion meter was added to the interface so you can accurately 
 gauge the enemies suspicion of you. If the meter is moving quickly and is colored red, youre 
 about to be in some serious trouble. Otherwise, if the meter is not moving at all or is sliding 
 back and forth slowly and is still black, you should be able to move forward without causing alarm.
 
  
  There are a couple of other new features to mention. You can now look through keyholes of doors 
 to see into rooms. If a door is locked, you can now pick the lock to gain access. You can also 
 carry chloroform to disable a target instead of killing him or her. Other than that, your trusty 
 fiber wire is back, along with your ballers, desert eagle, AK-47, sniper rifle, silenced pistol, 
 and plenty of other weapons. 
  
  Whats a little different now, is that if youre holding a new weapon when you finish a mission, 
 that weapon is forever available to you in any mission thereafter. All your weapons are then placed 
 in a shed by the church in Sicily, where you regroup before each assignment. Youll choose your 
 weapons from here before the start of a new mission.
  
  Among the technical aspects, youll see that Hitman uses a similar engine to the one used in the 
 previous game, although its clearly been modified to allow for more details. I was particularly 
 impressed with the character animations, facial expressions, and physics in the game. The physics 
 of cloth and bodies is quite impressive. When dragging a body, you can witness the body react to 
 any obstacle it comes in contact with. Ive dropped bodies down man-holes, watched them roll off 
 steps, and seen enemies slouch at their desks after being killed.
  
  As I mentioned before, you can now save during levels. Whats equally as nice is that the load 
 times are nearly instant. I had to wait five seconds maximum for a level to load. Its really quite 
 remarkable considering there are some fairly large levels. 
  
  On top of that, the game runs smoothly with only slight dips in frame rate during heavy action 
 sequences or scenes with lots of trees and particle effects, such as snow filling the view. But, 
 since the game is focused more on strategy and precision rather than chaotic gun fights, the frame 
 rate usually remains nice and steady.
  
  After playing through the sequel, Ive realized that the Hitman series has definitely engraved 
 itself as its own genre. It combines parts of stealth, action, and strategy in a magnificent way, 
 while following a solid story-line to keep the whole package deliciously entertaining. 
  
  The original certainly wasnt an easy game for everyone to pick up and play, but the sequel helps 
 bridge the gap much better for newcomers. If you were frustrated by the original but liked the 
 concept, you definitely want to let Hitman 2 have a fresh start. If you loved the original, youll 
 certainly love the new freedoms and friendlier additions to this wonderful sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoaoDiogoRP
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 14, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice while playing Hitman 2 is the high quality level of its production and 
 all the details envolved in its conception. The game stands as a good experience, the voices are 
 excellent and the music is also very good.
  
  In Hitman 2, you play the role of an assassin that, beyond his killing skils, is also excelent 
 concerning stealth movements, something that is quite important for the sucess on the different 
 missions of the game. This missions occur in different worldwide scenarios that portrait very well 
 the environment of each country. Besides that, one of the best aspects in Hitman 2 is the fact 
 that the game doesn't follow a linear set of objectives, as during a mission, you have numerous 
 ways of accomplishing your objectives.
  
  As a character of a stealth action game, Agent 47 (the killer we control) has in his availability 
 different resources, as the possibilty of wearing the clothes of someone we killed, or dragging 
 bodies, choke enemies with a fiber-glass wire, et cetera.
  
  The most negative points in Hitman 2 it's its difficulty, which can turn the game frustrating to 
 some gamers, due to the sucessive reloads. This is a title that requires a lot of patience, otherwise 
 it can end prematurely in your ended-games section. However, the game includes now a saving system 
 that you can access during the missions, something you couldn't do in Hitman 2.
  
  The enemy I. A. is good, with some minor flaws. The gameplay is something you adapt to in some time, 
 but when you do, everything comes out very nicely.
  
  Graphics - 8
  Good graphics, but the animations could be more worked out. I have to point out the charisma given 
 to Agent 47 and his cruelty.
  
  Gameplay - 8 
  Very good, that makes a name in the stealth-action genre.
  
  Sound - 10
  Excelent voices, 
 brilliant musics (performed by the Symphonic Orchestra of Budapest)
  
  Lifespan/ Replay Value - 7
  It has several missions, and the game is pretty though. However, 
 after you finish it, there is no true reason to return to it, unless you really want all the weapons 
 and the best mission ranks. But you'll only want to replay some missions.
  
  Veredict: I recomend Hitman 2: Silent Assassin for those who seek an alternative for Solid (and 
 Naked) Snake's and Sam Fisher's adventures. However, it is much more brutal than the reffered. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2005 12:04 am PT
Review:  Hitman 2: Silent Assasin is some of the most excellent games of its genre. It packs the action 
 of a shooter and plenty of stealth-based action for those who want to do it the slow way. Either 
 way, it's a great shooter/stealth game.
  
  The story unfolds as 47 is working at a monestary as a gardener. When his mentor and priest is 
 kidnapped, 47 goes back to his black suit and red tie, and packs in his ballers. The story starts 
 out very strong, but fizzles out as the "Agency" he is hired by orders him to make these hits, 
 which is about a bunch of nuclear weapons and a crazy old Russian guy who kidnapped his mentor 
 so that he could eliminate 47.
  
  Every level, you start out in your black suit. As you progress through a level, you change indentities 
 and drag bodies of people you killed out of view. Then, you reach your destination and you make 
 your hit. The open-endness of a level is so great that people can either shoot their way through 
 a level, or do it the stealthy way.
  
  Graphics are pretty average, with that dated look, but still looks good. In the levels, you often 
 see regular pedestrians out on their bussiness, and busses and cars speed past you. The developers 
 obviously did a good job of making an excellent, mundane atmosphere for the game.
  
  Sound is the jewel of this game. As you walk through vast pools of blood, you make some noice. 
 Also, people speak in their native language, but they often repeat their lines way too much. It 
 would be nice to see some dialouge variation. Also, the guns sound authentic and well done.
  
  Overall, this is an excellent stealth shooter with plenty of open-endness. It's definitely 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 21, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Io Interactive is back with a sequel to the first Hitman game, where you play as a genetically 
 cloned being known only as Mr. 47. So, pick up your hardballer pistols and head out for your next 
 assignment. Being one of the worlds best assassins is a hard reputation to hold up, so taking 
 time off to clear the mind is always needed. Mr. 47, after the actions of the first game, decided 
 to take the opposite role in life and live in a monastery as a gardener. Seem a little extreme? 
 Well, you can never leave the role of a trained killer either through your own actions of those 
 brought upon you from outside interference and Mr. 47 learns this. Mr. 47s mentor, our in a religious 
 sense, father (padre) , Mr. Vitetoreo is kidnapped and hauled across the world while you try to 
 track him down. Does this sound like a good start to a sequel?
  
  Youve seen many movies where hitmen are hired to do odd jobs such as assassinating leaders or 
 sometimes sabotaging material, and in Silent Assassin, youll be given the chance to display your 
 skill of stealth, weaponry, and the art of confusion as you try to fit into the mold of each situation 
 youre in. Newly incorporated in Silent Assassin is how the game grades you on the amount of 
 stealth you achieve throughout each mission. Yeah, you could go in guns blazing and maybe live 
 to tell, but the idea behind a hitman is to be silent and not be seen while going through their 
 task. After padre is kidnapped, Mr. 47 contacts his old organization who helped find him jobs 
 from the previous game, so that they may be able to locate his mentor. And of course, everything 
 has its price, so now you must go on a few missions to pay for the information to find your friend. 
 After a few missions, youll find out they still dont know where he is, and again, youre lead 
 on some other missions finally realizing that your life as a hitman is truly what you are, not 
 a gardener. Youll travel the world over and back, going through around twenty missions having 
 to assassinate some people, hack computers, and also break into heavily guarded fortresses. Eventually, 
 youll find out that the main man hiring you for your odd jobs is the man who kidnapped Mr. Vitetoreo 
 and youre lead upon one last mission from the place you started, the monastery. 
  
  The graphics in Silent Assassin have been stepped up a little since the first game and most of 
 the actions of each character are smooth. Youre either allowed to be in 1st person or 3rd person 
 perspective which is a nice choice. Animations for each character are done nicely and the physics 
 engine in the game was something new to genre and with this game, it was handled nicely. The areas 
 inside each mission were detailed and really set the atmosphere for each environment whether youre 
 in Japan in the middle of a blizzard, or India making an assassination attempt. A nice innovation 
 from the first hitman that was carried over is the ability to wear the clothes of any of your enemies. 
 You could take out a guard on the outside of a complex, without being seen, and adorn his clothes 
 and walk into the complex. No, youre not able to just run around, but depending upon your costume, 
 youll be able to go through different places you werent allowed before. This function of the 
 game adds a lot of play value to the game and of course, you dont need to absolutely do this, 
 but some missions can certainly be easier with the help of a disguise. 
  
  Completing the actual assassination attempts should be easy in the weaponry standpoint, because 
 Mr. 47 will almost always be well equipped for any situation hes in whether he brings the weapons 
 with him or finds them off contacts throughout the mission maps. Youll deal with weapons such 
 as silenced pistols, the legendary hardballers, and a crossbow which can be used for a soundless 
 long range weapon. Whatever situation youre in, youll find the right weapon. If you want to be 
 quiet, use wire to wrap around the neck of your opponents, or if youre not worried about sound, 
 bust out your AK and mow down multiple enemies. Youll gain new weapons as you pick them up during 
 your travels and will be able to equip yourself before most missions. Youre not allowed to carry 
 an unlimited amount of weapons, which is actually realistic unlike a lot of other games, so choosing 
 your weapon can bring some strategy into the game each time through. 
  
  The sound in this sequel helps you feel the atmosphere in each territory you cover throughout the 
 twenty plus missions. All the weapons have a unique sound. The characters within the game have 
 memorable voices and this adds to the atmosphere of the dark job of judgment of other souls. 
 
  
  There isnt a multiplayer component to Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, but there definitely is a lot 
 of replay value within the game. Having multiple difficultly settings and being able to go through 
 each mission with total stealth and not being seen adds a lot of difficultly to any mission. After 
 each mission, youre given a score sheet telling how many shots youve fired, how many people youve 
 killed, and how much stealth and how much aggression you used for each level, among other stats. 
 With this unique score sheet that adds up after every mission, youll be able to keep track and 
 hopefully beat your score each time through. 
  
  Although there are many high points to Silent Assassin, there are some low points. When having 
 to sneak up on your enemies, Mr. 47 moves extremely slow. Yes, this may add difficultly to the 
 game, but having to make each stealth kill perfect because of timing can be frustrating. One 
 other aspect of the game that didnt shine was the fact that once the guards were alerted in one 
 part of the map, guards were alerted in every part of the map. This can truly happen, but this 
 was definitely a change from the first game in the Hitman series where the A. I didnt know if you 
 had fired a shot on the other side of the map in a disguise. 
  
  But overall, if you liked the first Hitman game, youll enjoy Silent Assassin even more with new 
 innovations, weapons, and strategies; youll have hours of fun throughout the twenty plus missions 
 of the game. Newcomers to the series will enjoy Silent Assassin because of how well Io Interactive 
 put the missions and levels together. The story throughout the game keeps intact as you make the 
 rounds as one of the best assassins in the world. Can you hold up that reputation? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike1234234
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2004 3:14 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games ive ever played, its actually fun cause there are several ways 
 to complete missions, that makes it alot better than those other games when you can only go 1 way 
 so it gets boring after the first time through. I never played a Hitman game before so i downloaded 
 the Contracts demo and i thought it was pretty good, then i downloaded the demo for this one and 
 i found it too be alot better. I found the graphics to be about the same on both of em (Contracts 
 was a little beater but who cares) . Now gameplay is exellent, the way you can go stealthy is great 
 and if your having trouble on a mission just bring out an M60 and blast your way through. The sound 
 in this game is pretty crappy though. The weapons made almost no noise but at least when the enemys 
 speak they speak in there language for where ever they are from. These game has some really good 
 features to it too like the first person view thing and the change cloths feature. Those are some 
 of the things that make this game great good job Eidos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ovrman
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Hitman 2 is overrated. The story begins strong, but fizzles out about half-way through. The alleged 
 stealth feature in the game is practically non-existent, and can't compare with games like 'Thief'. 
 
  
  The gameplay is often inspired by intriguing missions performed in a variety of exotic locales. 
 The Hitman's instructions are to typically 'sneak-in' to a facility (which amounts to walking by 
 eagle-eyed guards and hoping they dont see you) and kill someone. 
  
  Unfortunately the suspense and opportunities for stealth are ruined by the necessity to blast your 
 way through several guards just to complete an objective. This is a shooter which is marketed as 
 a 'stealth action' game, yet has no genuine stealth features. 
  
  Although most of the levels have appreciable ethnic designs, they lack significant detail and character. 
 The graphics are simply average by today's standards. The sound is mediocre as well. As stated 
 in other interviews, there really isn't any significant npc contact, and the Hitman's voice carries 
 an arrogant British twang whenever he speaks. Enemies seem to speak little, often only grunting 
 or yelling in astonishment.
  
  Save your $$$ and wait for the price drop to around 10 bucks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doriard
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 15, 2003 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is in the Action genre, with a good rating, so I tried it. It is really a mistake to 
 call this game an action game. This game is all about sneaking around. It's easy to mow everyone 
 down if you want to, but there's not much excitement in it. The only real challenge is in going 
 undetected, but that means sneaking around almost ALL OF THE TIME. It gets monotonous. I like action 
 games that break the pace with sleath, but the slow pace of always having to sneak around gets 
 boring. Also, the controls are not designed well for action. The game is not very responsive to 
 the mouse and keyboard. If you try to turn around too fast with the mouse, the game doesn't respond 
 and you actually go SLOWER! This game was interesting in its style, but there are MUCH better action 
 games out there. Only buy this game if you like the pure sleath approach. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
