-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Homeworld 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/homeworld2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 16, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.5, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,921 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Relic
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 16, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those who had a great time playing the original should by all means enjoy the sequel, as will most 
 anyone interested in managing epic battles between huge spaceship fleets. 

  A space opera of epic proportions awaits in Homeworld 2, the impressive sequel to the 1999 real-time 
 strategy game that successfully incorporated three-dimensional deep-space combat. This is something 
 that, arguably, no other games since have achieved as successfully, save for Homeworld: Cataclysm, 
 a follow-up to the original. Homeworld 2 is a full-fledged sequel, but it is nonetheless very similar 
 to its predecessor -- it's like a remake, reintroducing the uniquely paced gameplay and virtually 
 retelling the story of the original Homeworld with outstanding, new graphics and sound that are 
 as remarkable today as Homeworld's were upon its release. As any fan of the original would expect, 
 the gameplay again involves dramatic, tense ship-to-ship battles between various far-future fighter 
 craft, bombers, frigates, capital ships, and more, which can readily be ordered to move about the 
 game's seemingly boundless battlefields along any trajectory. Homeworld 2's lengthy single-player 
 campaign is the main attraction, with its mesmerizing storyline and settings. It can be very difficult, 
 even for experienced players of the original game, possibly in part because Homeworld 2's battles 
 are so enthralling that you may just catch yourself staring at them rather than directing them. 

          Homeworld 2 is a visually stunning and highly challenging real-time strategy game.     
 

  In Homeworld 2's campaign, you'll guide the self-sufficient mothership, The Pride of Hiigara, and 
 its fleets of defenders in an effort to thwart the Vaygr, an imperial race that has come to claim 
 the Hiigarans' domain. Along the way, the Hiigarans will engage in many fierce battles against 
 the Vaygr, encounter some old allies, discover long-lost secrets, and attempt to fulfill an ancient 
 prophecy. All this and more occurs during and in between more than a dozen big missions, which 
 compose Homeworld 2's linear single-player campaign. The game's story is narrated soberly by The 
 Pride of the Hiigara's two chief officers, whose emotionless, disembodied male and female voices 
 relay important information constantly. The entire tone of the storyline, which is also manifest 
 in the matter-of-fact radio chatter you'll hear in the midst of the game's intense space skirmishes, 
 is highly unusual for its remarkable calmness and for how this calmness drastically contrasts with 
 the epic scale of the conflict. All this gives Homeworld 2 a remarkably surreal quality and makes 
 the campaign distinct and memorable.  

  The basic structure of Homeworld 2's gameplay is exactly like the original's. At heart, this is 
 a straightforward real-time strategy game in which your mothership is your base and factory and 
 in which you must harvest a single resource from nearby asteroids in order to fuel your war machine. 
 You must defend your resource collectors as they go about their business, all while building mixed 
 fleets with which to attack the enemy's positions. Ships can be set to several different default 
 behaviors, including passive, defensive, and aggressive, and can also be arranged into several 
 different tactical patterns. Initially there seem to be fewer formations available than in Homeworld, 
 but actually, different combinations of behaviors and tactics make for different fleet formations 
 in Homeworld 2.  

  The various ships in the game all seem well balanced, more so than those of the original. You'll 
 likely gain respect for even the smallest ones. All ship classes may be upgraded by researching 
 enhancements, such as to their engines and armor, and smaller ship classes -- fighters, bombers, 
 and most corvettes -- are automatically constructed in squadrons, so you get a good deal for a relative 
 small cost of resources. Though some of the late-game ships, namely destroyers and battleships, 
 are extremely powerful and cannot be defeated without sustained, concentrated fire from many, many 
 smaller ships (who may optionally target the larger ships' subsystems, like their weapons and engines) , 
 generally there are ways to counter all the different vessels in the game, and early-game units 
 such as fighters and bombers remain useful even later on in a battle. As such, as with many other 
 real-time strategy games, the proficient Homeworld 2 player is one who can quickly gather resources 
 while marshalling an overwhelming, well-rounded strike force.  

  This can be more complex than it sounds. One of the interesting changes in Homeworld 2 versus the 
 original is that, in a typical skirmish or multiplayer match, and through the vast majority of 
 the campaign, you have a fleet carrier to work with as well as your mothership. You can build and 
 research from two separate points, and therefore you needn't put all your eggs in one basket. The 
 mothership and carrier are both painfully slow units, but nonetheless, it may be viable to move 
 these units to different parts of the map, which puts them both at risk but may lead you to a tactically 
 advantageous position. There are also interesting defensive options available. Anti-fighter gun 
 turrets, and anti-capital ship ion turrets and missile platforms are relatively inexpensive structures 
 that can be moved once -- build them and order them to a point on the map, and there they will remain, 
 automatically firing on any enemies that come into range. These are great for protecting your resource 
 operations as well as deterring a frontal assault against your stalwart but relatively defenseless 
 mothership and carrier.  

  As mentioned, Homeworld 2 is uniquely paced among real-time strategy games and harkens to tense, 
 tactical naval battles instead of to the typical breakneck pacing commonly seen in the popular 
 real-time strategy games of today. Larger capital ships can take a tremendous beating before finally 
 erupting in a blinding explosion. Smaller ships are great at evading most types of fire and tend 
 to last a lot longer than you'd expect. And if even one fighter from a standard squadron of five 
 makes it back from a sortie, the whole squadron may be quickly restored.  

  The resulting conflicts are all about momentum, about who is pressing the advantage and gradually 
 wearing away at the opponent. Don't expect fleet-demolishing superweapons here. Victory comes from 
 deliberate and sustained attack, and it doesn't come quickly, especially since most ships -- particularly 
 larger ones -- move quite slowly. Homeworld 2's campaign missions, skirmishes, and multiplayer matches 
 can all be quite time-consuming, so you'd best set aside at least a good hour for a complete battle. 
 Nevertheless, though the game's combat is methodical, it's by no means boring. It's common to have 
 fleets operating in all different parts of the map, and between checking on the progress of numerous 
 simultaneous engagements and queuing up new fleets and research projects at home base, you'll certainly 
 have your hands full.  

          The epic-scale battles between fighters, frigates, and capital ships are tense, methodical, 
 and amazing to watch.     

  The game's interface is streamlined and elegant, allowing you to effectively manage vast fleets 
 of starships spread all across hundreds of thousands of kilometers of void. As in Homeworld, you 
 use the shift key to move your forces "up" or "down" as necessary (you can also press and hold 
 the left mouse button for the same effect) , and you can press the space bar to toggle between a 
 relatively up-close view and a more-tactical "sensors" view in which even your mothership is just 
 a speck on the map. The transition between these perspectives is seamless, and using the mouse, 
 you can effectively zoom in and out and rotate your view to set an ideal vantage point, or zero 
 in on a particular ship, and then zoom in so close, you can make out the tiny details of the ship's 
 paint job, see moving parts and flashing lights, and more. This is partly for show (and it's a 
 great show) , but since ship damage is clearly visible, and since you can actually watch as warring 
 spaceships attack and hit each other, getting a close-up view of combat is actually the best way 
 to gauge who's winning and who's not. So in fact, Homeworld 2 is one of the only 3D real-time strategy 
 games to date in which zooming in to get a close-up of a battle isn't a pointless waste of time. 
     

  The interface has a few other nice features, such as how you can toggle on a building and research 
 queue and how you can see at a glance how many unit groups you've established and how units within 
 a given group are faring. Also, each class of ship is outlined slightly differently in the sensors 
 view, a very important and useful feature that informs you whether that dot is a scout squadron 
 or a missile frigate. The interface does have a few minor issues that are specific enough to not 
 warrant detail, and it certainly takes getting used to -- a process facilitated by Homeworld 2's 
 step-by-step tutorial, which is reminiscent of the excellent tutorial from the original game. However, 
 all in all, the game controls very well, allowing you to work efficiently and spend your time planning 
 and executing, rather than fumbling with the controls.  

          The lengthy and often difficult campaign is well produced and is the main attraction of 
 Homeworld 2.     

  The game's artificial intelligence both for friendly and enemy units is also quite good. You don't 
 need to babysit your forces, which by default will engage any incoming enemies and will concentrate 
 on whichever specific foes they're best equipped to fight. You'll need to micromanage the reprioritization 
 of targets and any tactical retreats, but generally, you can leave your capable spacecraft to their 
 own devices. Meanwhile, the enemy, both in the campaign and in skirmishes, poses a serious threat 
 and will decisively overpower your forces with counterforces if you overspecialize (such as if 
 you only build ion cannon frigates and fighter escorts) . As mentioned, the game can be very difficult. 
 Your enemy will compete for the same resources and may quietly assemble an unstoppable fleet without 
 your knowing.  

  Since the campaign is linear and scripted, reattempting the missions can give you the benefit of 
 foresight, though you'll still have a serious challenge ahead of you. One interesting aspect of 
 Homeworld 2 is that, like in Homeworld, you retain your resources and fleets from one mission to 
 the next. Thankfully, unlike in the first game, you instantly and automatically gather all remaining 
 resources on the map once you complete a campaign mission's objectives. This lets you hit the ground 
 running in the next scenario and keeps the campaign's pacing tight. On the other hand, some missions 
 require you to eliminate all remaining enemy forces from the map before you can move on, and this 
 can be irritating when all that's left is some hidden ship someplace. But as you learn to employ 
 scouts and probes with your fleets, to quickly survey your surroundings, this shouldn't be such 
 a problem.  

  Homeworld 2's skirmish and multiplayer modes are straightforward, offering a good number of options 
 for customizing a match prior to its start and allowing players to choose from either the Hiigarans 
 or the Vaygr. The two factions are more differentiated than those of Homeworld, but they are by 
 no means drastically dissimilar, and as such, players expecting a ton of multiplayer variety from 
 Homeworld 2 may not get it. Likewise, the game uses a third-party application for its multiplayer 
 player-matching, and it doesn't offer the quick-game modes or other useful features found in other 
 currently popular multiplayer real-time strategy games. Multiplayer Homeworld 2 supports up to 
 six players and can be as tense and exciting as the single-player mode, but it isn't necessarily 
 the game's focal point or its strong suit.  

  Stunning graphics undeniably add to the game's appeal. Homeworld 2's ships feature fully articulated 
 weapons and other moving parts, and they feature uniquely alien designs, some of which are surprisingly 
 distinctive, considering how difficult it must be to come up with an interesting-looking spaceship 
 at this point. Warm-colored gasses and huge pieces of space detritus make the scenery anything 
 but barren, and weapons fire, the cataclysmic capital ship explosions, and the evasive flight patterns 
 of fighter craft all look incredibly convincing. The battles in Homeworld 2 do a thoroughly convincing 
 job of evoking the drama and spectacle of the cinematic space battles seen in  Star Wars ,  Star 
 Trek ,  Robotech , and other films. For good measure, the game features stylishly done black-and-white 
 cinematic cutscenes, reminiscent of those from the original game.  

          Complex gameplay, well-designed units, and a slick interface make Homeworld 2 highly recommendable. 
     

  Homeworld 2's audio is a perfect match for its visuals. The moody, atmospheric musical score, which 
 uses various ethnic themes to help make all the interstellar activity as exotic as possible, is 
 extremely well done. The music cuts in and out smoothly as you switch between close-up views of 
 the ships and your sensors view, which is a great effect. Likewise, the sounds of combat are muted 
 and distant as you watch from afar, but zoom in close to a given ship and you'll independently 
 hear its weapons systems, engines, and more, all of which sound outstanding. The voice work in 
 the game is also first-rate. As mentioned, the Hiigarans' commanding officers seem coolly detached 
 but nonetheless seem to fit the parts perfectly. Meanwhile, your various ships all largely sound 
 identical and will do a reasonably good job of reporting changes to battlefield conditions as they 
 come up. By default, the radio chatter is a bit too frequent, and you'll start to hear it repeat. 
 Nevertheless, this is a refreshing change of pace from the typically repetitive unit acknowledgements 
 you get in other real-time strategy games.  

  Overall, Homeworld 2 lives up to the high standards set by its predecessor. It may not be the ideal 
 real-time strategy game for the player looking for another quick rush of multiplayer battles, but 
 its production values are impeccably well done, its campaign is long and captivating, and its core 
 gameplay is complex, tactical, and rewarding. As such, those who had a great time playing the original 
 should by all means enjoy the sequel, as will most anyone interested in managing epic battles between 
 huge spaceship fleets.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (62 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jangofett2688
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  Amazing, excellent, super, outstanding, no RST game has ever come close to how good this game is. 
 It has excellent graphics with perfect detail when you zoom into the ships. The story line is great 
 but very similar to Homeworld 1 (see my review) . Some people like Homeworld 1 better that Homeworld 
 2 because they say that Homeworld 2 is harder, well...... they are right it is harder. It is harder 
 than Homeworld 1 but if you are bored of HW1 (Homeworld 1) and you think it's too easy, then get 
 HW2. Like in the first one you take control of a army in space with the mothership Pride Of Hiigara. 
 The setup is similar but you can do everything on you control panel so you don't leave the action. 
 One of the nice things in HW2 is that you can move the camera freely with your arrow keys. Their 
 are basically the same ship classes from HW1: Fighters, Corvette, Frigates, Capital Class, but 
 now (in HW2) you get the platform class. Their are many new ship such as: The shipyard (a second 
 mothership!) , the massive Battlecruiser, and much more. Overall Homeworld 2 is an unbelievable 
 game and would recommended it to everyone.
  100/100 Prefect.
  P. S. Go to my profile to see pictures and movies on Homeworld 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luketheduke324
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  AWESOME GAME PLAY THE BEST I HAVE EVER SEEN SINCE HW1. GET THIS GAME!!!!!! YOU WILL NOT BE DISSAPOINTED. 
 THE TEXT WONT LET ME SUBMIT! SO RANDOM KEY WORDS KSFHD U HFSHDF HFOIES HFIEH EH FIHE FHSEHI FIEH 
 FISEOH FIEH FIEH FIO HIEHF IOEHIF HEFHIESO HFESFIEH OIFHEIO FH IE HIHFIOH FIOH H FIOHFOIEHF IHF 
 IH FIEH FIEHFIHF HOSHEF OEHF HF HFHSFHFI JFEOJ FO EOF JEOJFO JEOFJEOFJEO FJEOFJOPEF EFIEOFJIFJI 
 EFIEHF HF IE HI EIE JFIE HIEFHUI HFEH F FFH IE FIEH FIEH I HIEH FI HIOHEIOF HEIHIO FHIF FIO HIEOH 
 FIOE FHIO HH IO HIIE HIEOFHIE HFIOFHE FHE H EF IEHFIO HIOEH F HEFIOHIOFH IO HFHEHFIEOH F I HEFIHE 
 IFHI F IEFHIEHF IF I FIHFEIFHIE HIHF IEFHIOSEHF IOE FHIHF DEJH FIOEWHFIO I SEHFIO EHFIH EI HIH 
 FIH IHEFIOHIOEFH IEO HESIH FI OHIEO FHIH FOIESHFIOHE IFH FIEHSIOFH IOEH I HI HIO HFIEOHFIOSHFIO 
 HIEOH IH FI HI HIHFIOSEHFIOEHIFH IEHIEH IHFIEH FIEHIHFI HIFH HIFH IHHIHFIH FIE HFIHE HFE IEHFIOEHF 
 IHFIEH IE F HI FHIEH IHE HIEH IEH FHHEFIEOH FIEH I HEHIHIH IOH FOEH FIOE FHIE EH FIEFHE HFIHEOHIF 
 HOHEFIOHF IEHIOHFI OEHFO SHEFIOHE FHIEOFHI HIHEFI HFIOE H FHEIO FHIO IEHFIEOH FIE HFIH OEH FIOEFIHEO 
 HFIOEH FIOEH FIEOHF IOSEHFIOEFHIHFI FOEHFIOEHHEFIOEHFIOHF SHE FIEOHF IOHFIOHSEIOFHESHFIO FIOEHIF 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctansuche
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  For those taking a look at this game for the first time, I would highly recommend playing the games 
 of the series in order from start to finish (Homeworld, Homeworld: Cataclysm, and Homeworld 2) . 
 
  
  While this game is not only STILL the best space based RTS (followed closely by Sins of s Solar 
 Empire) to date, the key to this game is the conclusion of an amazing storyline that spans the 
 three games.
  
  The graphics are still enough to push most gaming computers pretty hard, if you are trying to play 
 this game on a newer machine you'll want to navigate to your profile file and using a text editor, 
 manually input your resolution settings. That way you can force this older game to play nice with 
 newer widescreen LCD monitors or televisions. Thats right, you CAN play this game in 720p or 1080p 
 resolutions.
  
  Believe me when I tell you, there are few things more satisfying in life than watching your armada 
 roll through an enemy fleet with guns blazing. PLAY THIS GAME, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay, there's a lot of griefing in some of these reviews about Homeworld 2 being 2 hard. Wah wah 
 wah.
  
  I'm more of a RPG, turn based fan. I don't like Diablo style games, first person shooters and real 
 time games are usually a little too fast twitch for my fingers. But I got Homeworld 2 anyway -- I've 
 got an older machine, so I cast around for games that will still run on it -- and have enjoyed it 
 immensely. It is hard, there's no doubt about that. You can't possibly hope to just zerg the computer 
 into submission by building waves of ships to overwhelm the AI. You've got limited resources, first 
 of all, and the AI puts up a good fight. 
  
  The graphics in this game still hold up even years after its release. Unlike most 2 dimensional 
 space-based games (Starfleet Command, many of the Star Wars games) you've got to think in 3 dimensions. 
 There's nothing so satisfying as sending a squadren of fighters swooping down (or up) on a fleet 
 of unsuspecting frigates. Due to some of the limitations on firing arcs on ships, this does become 
 an important strategy.
  
  No level is unbeatable, but you'll sweat it out trying to get through them. I've had to take a 
 step back and try a different approach a couple of times, but eventually I got through. You will 
 spend hours on each mission, but whose in a rush to play through such an enjoyable game? 
  
  My only complaint is that my ships sometimes get minds of their own. I'll give them an order 
 to engage a particular enemy, and sometimes they'll see something shiny rolling across the floor 
 and get distracted. It's annoying, but if you stay on them, they'll do what they are supposed to 
 eventually. 
  
  For others who might be put off by the hectic pace of a real time game, be advised there is a pause 
 button that allows you to stop action, issue orders and continue when you are good and ready. 
 
  
  So grab yourself a copy of Homeword 2 and give it a whirl. It's well worth the price, which is 
 considerably lower than the initial release. I think you'll enjoy it.
  
  JCT
  March 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordJADA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I haven't spent a lot of time with this game yet, but it's impressive and unique. I've never seen 
 an RTS where you could move on a full-3d plane. I'm still trying to figure out if there is any 
 tactical advantage to gain from being up higher in space...
  The graphics are ahead of its time by a longshot I think and it runs well even on my average "Built-for-home 
 use" pc. Everything is very pretty. I mean there's cool trailing lights coming from the engines 
 of fighters as they fly. The hyperspace animation could have been better but it still looks pretty 
 cool. The explosions are ok but everything is made even better by the awesome sound effects! Maybe 
 it's just me, but I just think the sounds can draw you in, especially the Hiigaran mothership and 
 its entrancing humming engine sounds. Even the small interceptors and scouts sound cool as they 
 are flying.
  
  As far as art design and such, it is appealing, but some things I don't really care for. I like 
 the Vaygr designs a lot more than the Hiigarans (though the Pride of Hiigara Mothership I DO like!) .
 
  
  If you like RTS games like I do and you like sci-fi/space themed things, then this is definitely 
 one of those games that should NOT be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is one of the very few games that require no description, only experience. I don't know 
 how much time I have spent in playing this game, but I have to say that this game deserves every 
 hour and a half or more that you can spare. The combat system, though very straightforward and 
 simple at times, makes sure that you can focus on the bigger challenges. Graphics are okay, from 
 the point of view of simulated space, and the music makes you feel your victory and defeat like 
 you own it.
  
  What this game has that most others lack is a very engaging storyline. I won't spoil it for anyone, 
 but let's just say that Homeworld and it's sequels mesh together to form tales that all of us will 
 remember for a very long time. I heartily and sincerely suggest this game to all.
  
  Homeworld 2 takes on the story after the previous games and challenges the player to rethink and 
 reconsider the Hiigarans. As is customary with the Homeworld series, for the entire duration of 
 the game you will be rewarded with excellent graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  I originally had the chance to touch Homeworld and its expansion. But due to a stupid game review, I 
 just didnt buy the prior Homeworld. Luckily, Homeworld 2 revived in 2003. I was glad to see the 
 series Homeworld 2 come out. Lets talk about something about prior Homeworld. Homeworld is a full-3D 
 RTS game. Most RTS games are based on 2D game control though unit models of modern games are 3D. 
 I think Homeworld is the first full-3D RTS game in the world!
  
  Homeworld 2 is as good as the prior one. Homewolrd 2 still has good story and mission though some 
 missions are a bit hard. The graphics and sound of this game is excellent! Homeworld 2 is as great 
 as another Sci-Fi game called Star TreK: Starfleet command 3. I think I am a seeker seeking great 
 games! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowolf_12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  I would say sence this is now a some what old game it still has some playback value to it. The 
 gameing style of homeworld is very unique and hard to match, it has stunning graphics for the time 
 made, and awesome battles. I rated this game as hard because the campain becomes very difficult 
 in the end and you can turn up the diffucutly pretty high on skirmishes. This game most reminds 
 me of battle star galactica (new series) Because of the style of space craft. I mean this by not 
 every ship has lasers and photon torpidos, but they have guns, missles and ion guns, making the 
 battles awesome to watch. The game is a little tilted twords battlecruisers by the fact that if 
 you can hold out long enough to finnaly get all the prerequirents to get them you just say build 
 10. Then they pop out like every 5 mins. These beasts can take down most anything and if you get 
 2-3 together are almost unstopable. (Also really fun to do a huge map and totaly ahnialate the 
 enimey except for one carrier that got away then it feels like star wars: 10 battlecruisers (star 
 destroyers) searching space for the reminants of the rebel alliance (your lost carrier who spits 
 out fighters) All in all it is an ok game. I play still everyonce in a while when i get in the 
 spirit of massive fleet battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld 2 was the full fledged sequel to the original Homeworld, which was one of the greatest 
 games at its time. Relic wanted to do it again with Homeworld 2, but utterly failed- what went 
 wrong with this game?
  
  Lets start with the single player campaign and its story. The story takes place a while after the 
 end of the original game. The Higarans have settled on Higara, have rebuilt their empire, and have 
 decimated their rival: the Taidani (I don't think I spelled that right...) . Ah- but wait! Their 
 troubles aren't over- for a new foe has shown up to bring the hammer down upon the Higarans! The 
 Vaygr suddenly show up and start cutting a brutal swath through the Higarans empire. So basically, 
 the campaign focuses on the mothership's attempt to stop the Vaygr from taking over Higara. Its 
 unfortunate that the story here is as weak as it is. At least the quality of the scenarios themselves 
 is at least as high as it was in the original, so no real complaints there. But alas- the campaign 
 is hampered by Homeworld 2's lackluster gameplay.
  
  Why is the gameplay so disappointing? The answer is simple: Homeworld 2 does absolutely nothing 
 new with it. That and the fleets in Homeworld 2 just aren't as varied or fun to use as they were 
 in the original. Also, the game's ship formations are extremely limited compared to those of the 
 original. So if anything, Homeworld 2 simplifies the original's gameplay for the worse.
  
  For those who do still enjoy Homeworld 2's gameplay despite these issues will undoubtedly be impressed 
 by the game's visuals, which are excellent. The ships are all extremely well detailed, and the 
 trails made by corvettes and fighters are satisfying to look at. The only complaint to be had is 
 that the ship designs are less inventive that those of the original Homeworld, but this is a minor 
 complaint. The game however suffers in the sound department- with some iffy voice acting- especially 
 since every ship shares the same voice. They should of given each ship a unique voice over, just 
 like in Cataclysm. The other sound effects are similar to those of the original, but darn it- those 
 ion cannons don't sound nearly as satisfying anymore!
  
  In the end, Homeworld 2 was a major letdown by Relic. Especially with the base game they had to 
 work with, which was great. Relic SOMEHOW seriously messed up with this one, so ultimately, Homeworld 
 2 can only be recommended for fanatics of the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianMadCow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld 2 is a good game, even if it is alot like the first. But I dont own that one, or actually 
 homeworld 2, But I have borrowed it long enough to know that Homeworld 2 ig great. Plot in the 
 game, is not that exciting. Just you going across the galaxy to find a way to save your homeworld 
 from the Vaygr or whatever they are called. Although the story aint that great, the missions are 
 still quite challenging and have variety and can help you get better at the game as well. But these 
 missions will probably piss you off, making you reload your file over and over. Skirmish and multiplayer 
 modes are nice and also have a variety, letting you choose your ship colors, if you want to play 
 as either Vaygr or the Hiigaran, the good guys, and even multiplayer maps will make you strategize 
 because of deadly fogs and stuff that are thrown at you. I know wierd. The game will make more 
 sense of it. graphic arnt the greatest, but still considerably nice creating beautiful space effects 
 and ships. On that note, each ship has a purpose and you will probably use each. Not only that, 
 each ship looks great too, especially the huge ones that will make you say, yeah, now your screwed. 
 or, F*&amp;! now I'm screwed. Music, sound and cinematics are top notch. Cinematics are done in 
 a cool kind of black and white moving picture way with a few gameplay made cinematic which are 
 usually awesome. Music, I have to say is magnificent. In the first mission where you get attacked 
 for the first time, the music really got me pumping along with the cinematic that they showed while 
 it played. Sound as well is great too. Every explosion or torpedo hit or even bullets bouncing 
 off of a frigate sound great. Game play itself, as in how you control everything is great. It may 
 take you some time to get you'st to it but once you got the hang of it, controlling a fleet of 
 space ships is considerably easy. Along with those, being able to send ship up and down all over 
 the map, and the huge map that shows your whole space battle field are nice. All and All, Homeworld 
 2 is a great RTS experience along with a unique one at that also. If you can find it and are a 
 big RTS fan I strongly recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralCaesar25
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I like the home world style of play but I did not like the plot. To much religious stuff. I was 
 a little lost. The hyperspace cores were only used for large mother ship class. However, this was 
 not discussed in any previous game. I like the changes like collecting all resources afterwards 
 made it easy to focus on repairing ships then collecting resources. I thought the heavy missile 
 frigates were way over powered compared to torpedo frigates and flak frigates. I like that they 
 got rid of the fuel component. The marine frigates for capturing enemy ships makes more sense then 
 using savage corvettes to tow them to the mother ship. I hated the last line The age of S'jet has 
 begun. Too sappy. Some inconsistencies bother me slightly. For example, defense platforms could 
 only move once and you could never get them again once the mother ship jumps. However, probes could 
 only move once and they kept returning every time the mother ship jumped. I would have preferred 
 a campaign to liberate the galaxy from Makaan rather than a quest for destine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The Bentusi don't have their signature hollow voice. Many of the units are nerfed in Homeworld 
 2. For instance capturing now is done with weak and expensive marine frigates. The computer doesn't 
 have a unit cap while you are severely restricted by a heavy unit cap. Many of the units are very 
 unbalanced. Carriers are too weak, recovery rate has been lowered too much compared to the original. 
 Mothership deck guns are very very weak, it can barely take out scouts. I found the campaign to 
 be very difficult. Especially the last mission. There aren't anymore unique units like the acolyte 
 or the cloak fighters. Gameplay for Homeworld 2 is uninspired compared to the 2 predecessors. Everything 
 moves at a snails pace. If you mess up on one mission (i. e. not get enough credits before having 
 the mission end) you will have a very tough time trying to fight the battles afterwards. What doesn't 
 help even more is that the mission are ended for you so you can't take the time to replenish your 
 fleet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjbowden
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld II Brings in a Space Combat experience to its peek in which combat excells in more than 
 one area, though looks could be it to be confusing, the game is quite well formed to learn where 
 everything is and what it does, with a good quantity of options for ships and ship movements by 
 moving up and down on a center axis and allowing to upgrade your ships gives it a more realistic 
 futuristic style. This game also gives you Excellent graphics even for today's standards with its 
 2003 graphics engines with excellent detail of ships.-COPY- Homeworld II Brings in a Space Combat 
 experience to its peek in which combat excells in more than one area, though looks could be it 
 to be confusing, the game is quite well formed to learn where everything is and what it does, with 
 a good quantity of options for ships and ship movements by moving up and down on a center axis 
 and allowing to upgrade your ships gives it a more realistic futuristic style. This game also gives 
 you Excellent graphics even for today's standards with its 2003 graphics engines with excellent 
 detail of ships. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrbanIT2007
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 21, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Fantastic Great multiplayer Marvellous Amazing Rocks Ambitious Best in series I am an enthusiastic 
 fan of HOMEWORLD 2, very wonderful RTS GAME, hard and spectacular!!!!!
  I had knew this RTS Game four months ago and from then I am player - I'm mad player of HOMEWORLD 
 2!!!!!
  When to HOMEWORLD 3? I hope that Relic Entertaiment and the Professionals Designers, They will 
 create a brand new series of HOMEWORLD and HIIGARANS people....
  Hiigaran are the Best!!! What I saying more now about HOMEWORLD 2?? I don't know... I thinking 
 about this Game that I don't saying again and more... because I want playing now.... of course...!!!!! 
 Goodbye.... and sorry for my english... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CQAman
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Im going through a bit of a phase of buying quality 2002+ games for under &pound;10.
  
  And this is quality. I found it a bit difficult to get used to. There is a lot going on and if 
 your not used to this type of game, ull be spending quite a while getting used to controls, but 
 once you do, they are set up very well to navigate across the large battles.
  
  The game still looks goood, and of course will play seemlessly now as all the patches are out and 
 PCs have moved on a bit.
  
  I like the feel of this game, they way it loks and its movie elliment. Despite being linear and 
 a bit hard (they way you progress is to keep playing levels until you learn how to do it!!)
  
  But overall its definetly worth a purchase.... expecially now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelveiga
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Not many people track my submissions to this site. The few who do, or go through my profile might 
 come across this review and enjoy a game that's improved with age. Also, it might help people who 
 just recently got into RTSs and are looking for more stuff from either the guys who did Dawn of 
 War and Company of Heroes or more SupCom-style action.
  
  And yeah, Homeworld 2 is both things. Back when it came out it was a love it or hate it kind of 
 game. I hated it. As I suspect, many hardcore fans of the original Homeworld did. Homeworld 1 was 
 the 2001 of RTSs. Homeworld 2 felt like the Michael Bay version of the same thing. It lacked the 
 solid quality of the first, the x factor that made it so compelling from the beginning. Homeworld 
 2 just wasn't as special. You can blame many things. You can blame the story, for instance. The 
 original sported a Moses-like story of a woman becoming a cyborg mothership the size of a small 
 planet and leading the remainder of her people towards their promised land (by flying right through 
 a huge army) . I mean, Homeworld's first mission started with genocide and worldwide destruction. 
 You can't really beat that, can you? By the way, if you get the chance, read the manual of the 
 original HW. The writing of the backstory is top notch.
  
  Then there's the faster pace, which makes the second game feel more like other rush RTSs. It's 
 still slow, deliberate and it forces you to plan ahead and execute your plan... just not as much 
 as HW. Ships feel faster, so making a mistake when moving your larger fleets no longer results 
 in having your fleet turned into scrap metal before you can correct their course. Or rather, it 
 still happens just not so much.
  
  But here's the thing. Those gameplay elements from the first game that are missing? Those were 
 the FLAWS of Homeworld 1. Yeah, things move faster and you no longer get to spend fifteen minutes 
 after every battle harvesting resources on an empty map and rebuilding your army... but, honestly, 
 unless you were so engrossed on everything else in a game that just looking at it without playing 
 felt worthwhile, why would you want to? Homeworld 2 just gives you all the resources you'd have 
 gathered yourself in HW and moves you to the next level without asking. When I bought the game 
 I actually felt outraged with the change. But then something happened. I'd been stressed and looking 
 for a relaxing game to play. The great soundtrack of Homeworld felt like a good choice, and I looked 
 for the game. I must have left it in my parent's house, because I couldn't find it right away. 
 Besides, I'd finished that one, but not HW2, so that's what I installed.
  
  And, of course, I loved it.
  
  The first thing that crossed my mind was damn, this game did 
 what SupCom does four years ago . Everybody remembers HW for moving strategy to 3D, but the most 
 interesting addition was the strategic map that is available just by zooming out the game (actually, 
 you have to tap space, but the closest zoom of one view seamlessly starts where the furthest one 
 of the other ends) . HW2, unlike the first, allows you to set waypoints that actually work and has 
 amazing AI that can do the job unsupervised (again, some fans complained about this) but still 
 gets better if you micromanage it.
  
  Also, story aside, everything else just feels better now. Just like HW, HW2 seems to have been 
 a game before its age. Sure, it's faster and there are more resources, no fuel and cheaper units. 
 That's all good. The focus is on moving the ships you can get. I found myself playing with a maxed 
 out armada all the time, and still having to plan ahead or get squashed by lesser enemy forces. 
 I've finished missions without gathering a single resource unit. The first time I played that seemed 
 so wrong, like I hadn't earned my win. This time, though, after Dawn of War and a whole bunch of 
 more tactical RTSs, it feels great to just start with what I need and fight my way to victory with 
 that. And you know what? This game is still pretty. And still sounds great (no Yes song, though) . 
 So there you go, no reason to not replay this one, or looking for it on eBay or your local used 
 games bin. If you didn't like it the first time, your perspective might have changed, too. If you 
 didn't know it existed, you should really play it. If you've finished SupCom and are still convinced 
 that its seamless tactic/strategic integration is 100% new, you need to look at this one again. 
 The ranking below is relative to 2007 releases and, you know what? It beats what I'd have given 
 it in 2003.
  
  A final word about HW: Cataclysm. I don't like it. Never will. It became too complex, with all 
 the small ships that combined into bigger ones and weird technology (the original HW manual remarked 
 that there were no energy shields or crap like that in the HW universe: shots punch holes in spaceships, 
 period. HWC sported clich&eacute; d tech of that kind) . Plus, the time compression killed the pace. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld: Cataclysm takes place 15 years after the conclusion of events in the first game. You 
 start out as the Kiith Somtaww, a disenfranchised clan struggling to make its fortune through deep 
 space mining. It seems more apropos now that you are a lowly miner harvesting resources instead 
 of one of the other prestigious clans in the storyline's rich background. However, having to face 
 a powerful and destructive force in the universe will certainly change all that in no time.
  
  For those who are unfamiliar with the gameplay, you can view and move ships in every angle, 
 up close, or even zoomed out. The new waypointing feature allows you to mobilize ships to several 
 sections of space to create patrols, avoid dangerous areas, or surround enemy fleets, etc. Another 
 great feature of Cataclysm is the ability to see all the action from the cockpit of one of your 
 ships. I use this feature in a fighter when there isn't a doubt that I'd lose a skirmish with an 
 enemy squadron (it's not so fun being in the cockpit if you knew you were going to die now would 
 it?) . Besides, careful management of attack runs or defensive tactics are best done with the battle 
 in full view. Highlighting ships will be a repetitive function but new players will learn that 
 grouping them under a hotkey will be the most efficient way to mobilize. The overall interface 
 has also been improved with easier to navigate command menus.
  
  As with the first Homeworld, developments in ship technologies are intertwined with the single-player 
 storyline. The team at Barking Dog Studios put in some really ingenious features too. For example, 
 the standard fighter, or Accolyte can be linked to another Accolyte to gain more firepower and 
 more durability at the sacrifice of a slightly slower ship. They can also be reverted back to their 
 original state by using the unlink command. Other ships like the Mimic can actually change their 
 appearance to that of an enemy ship or an asteroid. Some more advanced ships can even generate 
 a multi-sided shielding mechanism. Perhaps the most useful and annoying vessel (depends on who is 
 using it) is the ramming frigate. You can use them to push a capital ship way out of its attack 
 position so that you can concentrate on more pressing confontations. At times I found my fleet 
 being ripped to shreds only because my best capital ships were being rammed out of the combat zone.
 
  
  The thing that is noticeably missing from the first game is that smaller ships no longer needed 
 to resupply. It was quite frustrating to have your squadron of fighters be a sitting duck (no pun 
 intended) while the enemy mowed you over. For me, it would have been great if this was an option 
 you can toggle as killing sitting ducks happens to be my specialty (pun intended) . All in all, 
 gameplay is interesting, intuitive, and impressive.
  
  The sounds in Cataclysm are nothing to balk at either. Zoom in on any ship and you can hear the 
 actual hum of its engine drives. Zoom in on a worker ship harvesting an asteroid and you can hear 
 it breaking down the materials. You'll even cringe at hearing the screams of your bridge crew when 
 one of your large capital ships go down. Apart from the sound effects, the voice acting is executed 
 very well and the music creates tension and drama.
  
  Cataclysm is definitely a game that holds its own. Very cool ship designs and beautiful space phenomena 
 litter this game. My only caveat is that I didn&amp;#65533; t feel that same sense of awe and wonder 
 as I did playing the first Homeworld. I no longer felt nervous about how the story would unfold 
 in Cataclysm nor felt the same kind of apprehension when I had a new area to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Homeworld definitely fulfills it's expectation for me, and is a great sequel t one of the best 
 games ever. It looks amazing, the game play is very nice, and the story is consistent with the 
 Homeworld universe. I had a lot of problems to get through the levels though, and never managed 
 to finish that last level. Homeworld was already very demanding and just not impossible, but Homeworld 
 2 is simply hard for me. I am not your best RTS player, so it might be just that. Another downside 
 for me was the fact that you proceed onto the next level once you destroyed all enemies. I liked 
 to proceed at my own pace in the first game, even if I kept on mining an hour after I had gotten 
 rid of the threat in nearby space, and miss that in this episode. Though it is a bit more in line 
 with the story of Homeworld 2, where you don't have all the time of the world to save your planet 
 , it takes away some of the real time feel in my opinion.
  
  Nevertheless Homeworld 2 is great, and together with it's predecessors still the coolest space 
 fleet RTS game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marktg
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  This game is good it has a fun story line that is actioned packed and still has good gaphics in 
 full 3D with the abilty to Zoom in and out. It is a hard game to play just like the frist one if 
 your not carefull in what you do and the AI knows how to fight you quiet well however it still 
 is not the brightest but it works. It is also just as good as the first and is one of the best 
 games that has been released un the sierra name and in the end it is sad that this may be the last 
 in the series as it a fun and flesh game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastiling
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I have played all of the released games in the Homeworld Seiries and this i (currently) the finalie. 
 With the graphics still equaal to todays games it has performed well. However as a serious RTS 
 gamer i have to say that it failed to live upto Homeworld Standards. Homeworld 1 revolutionised 
 Space RTS if not RTS in general. The storyline was awesome and fitted like a dream. However Homeworld 
 2 failed on the storyline, in my opionion it just dident have The Hook which the first did. The 
 game was criptic at points and the missions were at some points a joke.
  
  If you enjoy games where you are complete command of fleets of Spectacular lookin ships then look 
 no further... But if you are a gamer who likes to get Hooked youd be bettter off with games like 
 Haegemonia: Legions of Iron . The Multiplayer However, different story, Brilliant. I have no complaints, 
 the teamwork, the conflict and the new Modular Coherency is a must*. You build Defence, allie builds 
 offence or whatever!! This game had potetial that the creators never even saw, a shame, but die 
 hard fans... well we want anouther! Homeworld 3 PLZ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brutal_kid
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Even though i played this games years after the release, holy crap it's good. The gameplay is surprisingly 
 sophisticated and the graphics are stunning. a bad computer can handle this and it still plays 
 like a dream. The effects are beautiful and the storyline is engaging. Even if a ship moves slowly, 
 it wouldn't even seem obvious, and time really flies when i played this. Sadly there's no homeworld 
 3 yet, because the mechanics of this game are perfect. everything rocks about it...... except it's 
 really really hard. and the programming shows it was really well done, because this game is compact 
 for such a sophisticated and beautiful game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morris88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  combining a great storyline, great graphics and many differnet ships this game lures you in, unfortunately 
 there is only one campaign to play although all the units capable for putting together a second 
 campain are there sierra has not gone to the trouble of making a second campaign. But beside this 
 factor it is still a great game, far better than the original but what got me wasnt the graphics 
 or gameplay it was the storyline, this storyline would have to be the best storyline in any game 
 i have ever played before and is a must have for any pc games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracogen
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the original Homeworld, and an even bigger fan of the Homeworld: Cataclysm 
 follow-up, I had high hopes for this game. 
  
  I won't say that I'm completely disappointed, because I'm not, but this certainly was not the game 
 I was hoping would follow Cataclysm.
  
  The graphics have been extensively overhauled, and are the best thing about this game. There's 
 nothing like watching two massive fleets open up on each other in this graphics engine. The game 
 uses the same "spherical backdrop" concept as the first two. Generally it feels less like you're 
 floating in space than in a giant sunset painting, but black backgrounds make for a difficult time 
 in tracking your ships. The range from fair to good to astoundingly good, such as in the final 
 mission.
  
  On the downside, this game is just plain hard. Now a hard game in and of itself isn't necessarily 
 bad. But there's a difference between "fun hard" and "annoying hard". The former punishes you for 
 bad decisions you make in a game, and the latter punishes you for simply playing a game in the 
 first place. And unfortunately, this game is often "annoying hard". 
  
  The designers also did away with a lot of the open strategy found in the first two titles. For 
 me, part of the charm of Cataclysm was exploration, planning, and strategizing. And sometimes, 
 just zooming in on my fleet as it went about its activities, watching harvesters harvesting and 
 fighters patrolling. Not Homeworld 2. There are precious few moments when you can relax. It's often 
 just reaction after reaction to scripted events. I'm sure this was done for "pacing", but it wears 
 thin after a while.
  
  This non-open approach to the game makes for some big gameplay differences from previous games. 
 Player resource harvesting has essentially been removed from entirely, since resources are harvested 
 at the end of the level "automatically". But since each level abruptly ends after you achieve the 
 last objective -- presumably for "pacing" again -- this sounds better in theory than it works in 
 practice. 
  
  Firstly, you don't get the opportunity to rebuild and regroup at the end of the mission anymore 
 -- unless you consciously leave an open objective, which is not always possible. And even when 
 it is possible, it feels artificial. Come on, why not just let me rebuild at the end of the mission? 
 I'm a big boy -- I can choose when I'm ready to go. Why do I have to leave a carrier lurking about 
 just to finish building a destroyer?
  
  Secondly, it also sometimes makes for a silly, artificial feel to the storyline's progression. 
 Some missions have you "barely escape", often with a devastated fleet. But then, as the screen 
 fades to black after your emergency departure, the words "Resources Collected" flash across the 
 screen. So who stayed behind to collect them? And how did they survive? And how did they get back 
 to my main fleet? A little storyline cohesion isn't too much to ask for.
  
  The storyline is interesting, but not properly developed. Story elements or incidents are often 
 introduced without any background or explanation of their significance. For example, an early mission 
 has you going after something called "the Oracle". What is it? Who knows. Something important (apparently) 
 that moves the storyline forward (apparently) . Some very momentous events happen in the course 
 of the game, but without much background or explanation, it sometimes feels a little too much like 
 reading a fourth grader's story: a series of barely-related events with no underlying rationale 
 holding them together. Certainly nothing like Cataclysm, whose cohesive and engaging story led 
 me to discover, in the last mission, that I had become truly invested in the characters and the 
 outcome. I had hoped for as much with Homeworld 2.
  
  I enjoyed many aspects of the game, but finished it with an overall sense of dissatisfaction that 
 you will no doubt find reflected in this review. The game was all right, without the open-endedness 
 that made the original games truly shine. In the end, I found myself yearning to play Cataclysm 
 again, and I'll probably do that. 
  
  Sure, it's graphics don't compare to Homeworld 2. But it's got a heck of a story line, and it's 
 just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raeget
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  I've played my share of Strategy games. If there's a great game out there in this genre, I've most 
 likely had my hands on it at least a few times. I just can't believe that I haven't played this 
 wonderful adventure.
  
  Homeworld 2 is possibly one of the best RTS games on the market. Taking place a century after the 
 original Homeworld, the Vagyr are attempting to create a vast empire across the regions of space. 
 The Hiigara, who you play in the campaign, is in their way. Using their last remaining mothership, 
 the Pride of Hiigara, they attempt to resist the Vagyr and their imperial desires.
  
  The first thing you'll most likely notice is the quality of the graphics. Although the game was 
 released around 2003, the visuals are still on par with today's games three years later. The interface 
 is also visually appealing. Using small build and research toolbars and the ability to turn the 
 interface fully off creates a wonderful cinematic experience as well. The audio and score is very 
 well done and adds to the atmosphere of an already great game.
  
  The gameplay one of the best things about Homeworld 2. The series, started in 1999, was one of 
 the first to introduce 3D space combat. The sequel does not disappoint. The game revolves around 
 the mothership, your basic headquarters. It is used to create anything from the smallest bombers 
 to the gigantic capital ships. Addons can be researched and built on the exterior of your mothership, 
 giving it the feel of a dynamic, flying city. Ships can be built that act as smaller motherships 
 in order to create multiple bases. The mothership, shipyards, and carriers can create smaller fighters 
 to do your military work. The is one of the most rewarding parts of Homeworld 2. Just watching 
 the deep-space skirmishes between you and your opponent are a thing of beauty in themselves. Your 
 ships twist and turn with ease as they are trailed by a long tail of smoke. Your units work together 
 to take out larger groups of the enemy. This is also a great example of the AI. The computer will 
 use tactics such as retreating to either keep alive or slaughter your base.
  
  My only problem with Homeworld 2 is the difficulty. If one is not entirely familiar with the RTS 
 genre, this would not be a game to pick up to find out about. It can be tricky to get used to move 
 your ships, especially large groups of them. Do to a lack of a traditional minimap, you use a large 
 blue sphere showing the location of all your units. This can get confusing at times when you need 
 to maneuver your ships carefully. You may even go as far as forgetting you're using the map and 
 not the normal screen.
  
  Apart from the slight control difficulty problem, Homeworld 2 is a beautiful adventure into the 
 depths of space. Although at times it is not especially friendly to an inexperienced player, one 
 can find an exciting RTS unlike any other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunain_Hunny
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Being a to-death player of the orignal homeworld , i just craved for this game and its worth every 
 moment! even if you have a passive interest in science fiction and/or RTS get the game, its worth 
 it! The massive ships work like a dream, the graphics are just awe inspiring and sound gives you 
 the real feel, the music is just too good, i loved the original's music and this one is just the 
 same type, giving you an idea that your really in to some big big universe, battling big big threats, 
 the game simple grows on you, in time you feel for your side..... eat and sleep for your side!
 
  -Hunny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Wing Commander started it all (for pc's at any rate) and the graphics were to die for. Everyone 
 drooled over being a Luke Skywalker zipping around in 3-D space slicing the vacuum with laser bolts. 
 After (or before for some of us) "Return Of The Jedi", we wanted to be Fleet Commanders. not just 
 fighter jocks. Sure there was the "ELITE" and "X2" franchises, but we only developed trade routes 
 and relations to build up our ships, then our fleets. This was more graphically realized in "PRIVATEER". 
 Star Trek produced "Starfleet Command", but as Flight Sim graphics (and graphics overall) , space 
 seemed left in... well, space. I know the old argument of gameplay over graphics, but really, who 
 wants to go back to text-only RPG's, even if they were some of the best ever? C'mon, be honest!
 
  I was Manager of a Electronics Boutique (now EB Games) store in the '90's when screenshots of 
 "HOMEWORLD" appeared. It was the first game I pre-bought, and in my position I had access to info 
 on everything in the works. It was a thing of beauty, but was severe in its' learning curve. I 
 still have fond "snapshots" in my mind of the huge pitched space battles. Relic had gone on a limb 
 and blown it off the tree. But... the game WAS tough. "HOMEWORLD CATACLYSM" I found to be more enjoyable; 
 the difficulty level was just right; the new ideas it brought very welcome. Your 'mothership' was 
 now mobile. Development modules were realized seperate components of the ship. Apart from the Borg-like 
 storyline, the game was actually better than its' parent.
  Right, heritage and history over. If you don't own "HOMEWORLD 2" and you're reading these reviews... WHAT'S 
 YOUR PROBLEM???
  GRAPHICS: Even better than ever. Scorch marks on capital ships. Plasma venting from ruptured fuel 
 cells. Swirling nebulae. Oh, and apparently space is now the colour of burnt-orange.
  GAMEPLAY: Still tough. And this can be a very severe sales killer in the long term, and also puts 
 a lot of punters off completing the campaign past mission 4. This needs to be addressed, believe 
 me.
  SOUND: Music-suitably ambient. Sound effects? Just wait til you hear a Destroyer moan and groan 
 before tearing itself apart from internal explosions. Choice!
  OVERALL: Relic are giants in their own realm. The "Dawn of War" franchise is superb also. SIERRA 
 also publish Massive's "GROUND CONTROL 2", and man I would LOVE to see a combination of the Homeworld 
 and Ground Control universes. That would be titanic. This is a great game, and if you download 
 the "Starlords" mod, you can build Star Wars ships (the besy you will EVER see on a PC screen) , 
 but only in skirmish mode. Out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dps91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  What is this Review Text
  What is this Review Text
  What is this Review Text
  What is this Review Text
  What is this Review Text
  What is this Review Text
  What is this 
 Review Text
  What is this Review Text
  What is this Review Text
  What is this Review Text
  ???? ????????? ????????? ???????????? ???? ?????????? ???? ????? ???
 
  ?? ?????????? ???????????? ??????????? ????????? ??? ???? ?????????
  ?????????????? ???????? 
  ???? ??? ????????? ???? ?????? 
 ????? ??????? ??????????????????????
  ???? ????????? ??????????????? ???????????? ?????????????? ??????
  ? ??????? ???? ??? ????????????? 
 ??????????? ??????? ????????? ?????
  ???????? ???????? ???????? ?????? ?? ??????? ???????????? ???????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vendettanine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  If you hate slow games, don't bother with it. It can be slightly slow paced but there are a plethora 
 of mods which "fix" that aspect of gameplay. It's basically like any other RTS except better and 
 in 3d which opens up a many possibilities. Battles are slow but fun and rewarding. A swarm of fighters 
 taking down other strike craft and a capital ship is strangely satisfying. The missions are well 
 designed and tough. A plethora of mods exist including those which can turn Homeworld into a Star 
 Wars-like game. This should be suffecient attraction for geeks like me (and those who aren't playing 
 Empire at War yet) . The sound and music are fairly well contrived though there isn't a terrible 
 variety. This game is surreal and fascinating. A great multiplayer keeps you coming back for more. 
 All in all, a great game worth a shot for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnozgonul
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  homeworld 2 is starting from the end of homeworld ... if you have played homeworld (1) ... you 
 may even cry of joy to see the mother-ship again in homeworld 2
  
  its really great feeling to know that the enemy can attack from all sides.
  after all the times 
 i spend on games homeworld is the one i can always start again .
  
  And also after you finish the game the multi-player games are going to be much more amazing
  
 
  i wish Sierra Ent. will make the homeworld 3 ...
  
  it worth all the money i spend to have the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Now why the heck am I reviewing a 3 year old game?? Cos I just fired it up and am amazed at how 
 I still enjoyed it and how its graphics engine is still holding up. THIS GAME IS DAMN FREAKING 
 HARD!!! But that its what makes the gameplay fun and challenging. You can't just rush the enemy 
 with superior numbers like in other RTS and must rely on tactics to win. The in game camera is 
 a wonderful implementation and really captures the epic scop of the space battles, allowing one 
 to zoom in on the action and back out again seamlessly for a more tactical view. The graphics engine 
 is, considering its age, still comparable to some of the newer RTS releases and thats saying something, 
 considering the advances that have been made to graphics in the years. 
  
  Overal, this game really draws you in with a great storyline, tough battles & a wonderful, epic 
 feel to the space battles. A must have for all RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I felt when i was playing through this
  
  "what a glitchless, thought provoking, interesting, fun, well made, beutiful, masterful, well plotted, 
 well driven piece of gaming gold!"
  
  literally!
  
  From the beginning to the end, a spectacular sucessor to 1999's game of the year!
  
  The graphics 
 are stunning, full, detailed, and you really can't complain about the background scenery, it looks 
 fantastic.
  The sound is perfect, i couldn't expect better!
  The gameplay is rich, full and adaptive, and its is playable all the way through, with no specifically 
 hardest mission.
  
  A MUST buy for all RTS/SpaceRTS/Sci-fi fans, a real jem!
  
  Its a shame that Relic was bought up, the Homeworld franchise was one of the best experiances in 
 my gaming days!
  
  My only con with this game? It takes ages to get to grips with all the controls and buttons in 
 the interface! So noobs to the genre WILL find this game quite hard to start, but once you HAVE 
 got the ropes, there's no stopping you :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is the best space strategy game I have ever played. It has a good way of placing you 
 into space with the 3-D map instead of some usual 2-D space strategy games. This makes the game 
 have some more strategy if you can think 3 dimensionally. The backgrounds of the game are quite 
 amazing and very detailed with the vastness of space. There are some levels that will blow your 
 mind by how open they are. Now on to the actual game. The story is well done and does provide explanation 
 to what things are even if you never hae played the first one. The main thing about this game is 
 the strategy. You can't just run your way through foes and expect to win. You need to think to 
 win and when you do win you feel the satisfaction of it. The units are your typical space units, 
 fighters, battleships, gunships, nothing new, but interesting to have a battle with. Each unit 
 has a advantage against other units, you need to pay attention to that for you to finish the game. 
 This game does provide a great environment and some great strategic situations. Expect to be challenged 
 when you play. I had a great time playing and recommend you to play it also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cocomon173
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  The game has a relatively steep learning curve for first timer mainly due to the 3D environment. 
 Might get motion sickness with all the spinning around to get the "right" height for the ships 
 to ascend or descend. The AI is well programmed. The campaign will last you a while due to the 
 fact that ships carry over so if you don't have the right combination for a mission, you might 
 have to play the "previous" mission and make sure you build the right ships before proceeding. 
 The graphics (especially the cut scenes) is really good. Makes you "strategized" more than other 
 RTS due to the large amount of ships to choose from. Overall, a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dajesster
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The games keeps going. I played the tutorial (even if gameplay is simple i always play the tutorial) . 
 That went by very slowly, this is usually normal in a tutorial so i wasnt surprised. But the i 
 moved onto scenario, that was the slowest most boring game i have played in a long time. Resource 
 collectiong was slow, building was slow and to my great surprise even the BATTLES were slow. There 
 isn't much to sya about the graphics they were fairly mediocre (for their day they wouldv'e been 
 pretty good so i'm being pretty easy on them) . Overall I just plain didn't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yui437
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Now, Homeworld 2 has been hout for many, many years now. The inital reviews mostly railed upon 
 the game being not much newer than the original. That is still very true. With the base package, 
 all you get is a prettier, smoother, bigger game, but the gameplay is roughly the same, and the 
 emotional value of the story has diminished significantly. Some plot holes are never really explained, 
 like why the Hiigaarans are getting their butts handed to them while politely asking for it when 
 it was quite apparent they were the rulers of the galaxy. While it should have seemed more like 
 a war between two titans, it was more between a bully and a rich brat.
  
  The combat was not that fantastic either. For battles that occur in space, the ships are fairly 
 limited in movement. Even the fighters rarely ever perform amazing acrobatics of space flight. 
 Instead, all ships fly in straight lines, never turning upside down or flying sideways for whatever 
 reason. That was quite disappointing. Also, judging from battles seen in real life and imagined 
 on screen, it's usually a non-stop explosion fest of everything going off everywhere at once. Here, 
 the ships more or less take turns slapping each other with a white glove.
  
  The two races are not that different, except in design, colors, and numbers. The Vagyr are much 
 in the line of the primitive yet effective race, meaning they build quite quickly and their squadrons 
 are larger. The Hiigaarans, on the other hand, have stronger ships, but come in slightly fewer 
 numbers and are more expensive. Other than that, there's not much difference.
  
  This game ought to get a 6.0 for all of that. However, thank God for modders.
  
  The Homeworld 
 2 modding community has been hard at work on several mods that utilize HW2's unique space sim engine 
 to create whole new worlds on a scale never before realized. The Star Wars: Warlords mod puts in 
 everything from the universe and the kitchen sink and increases the numbers to create a frenetic 
 frag fest of lasers, X-wings, TIEs, and cap ships just duking it out everywhere. The Dustwars mod 
 seeks out to completely redefine HW2 as to what it could have been. Documents from its development 
 reveal that a huge war was being waged in the Hiigaaran Empire, creating a much more epic storyline.
 
  
  My personal favorite of these is the Point Defense Systems Mod, or PDS. It evolved from adding 
 more defenses to cap ships and redoployable platforms to creating a more realistic battle space, 
 currently at version 5. PDS goes above and beyond creating true 3d movement for all ships. So even 
 the biggest ships can twist, turns, flip, everything. It also adds several more ships, increases 
 the shots fired by a million, and you get a real sense of an epic war. In the distance you can 
 see flashes of an ongoing battle and as you move in closer, the real details come out. And then 
 as you follow a ship going into battle, you really feel like you're in the thick of things. I'm 
 talking about lasers, ion cannon fire, missiles, everything all at once flying everywhere that 
 you can't even tell what is firing at what. That is truly breathtaking and its sad that many war 
 games refuse to go so far as to make the stake that insane.
  
  So from the ashes of a mediocre game arises a truly frenetic example of what space war could be 
 like. Wonderful, absolutely wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzikar
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Voice acting is superb, cinematic cutscenes are well done and intriqing game play is rather frustrating 
 though. 
  
  A good strategy game, IMHO, is one that introduces new elements to a battlefield which you must 
 adapt and change tactics to meet the new threat. This game introduces new elements to each battle 
 but each time it does, it destroys you, forcing you to reload and plan your strategy just for that 
 event.
  
  Battles don't "develop" in this game, they're scripted and unless your fleet is positioned correctly 
 to deal with the next script cue, you find yourself wiped out. There really isn't any exploring 
 or taking your time to develop and move your fleet around in this game. Why? Many of the missions 
 introduce timers to accomplish an objective. If your fleet is not already ready to meet the new 
 threat (introduced by a script cue) you lose and must restart. So, basically, the whole game is 
 a process of playing each mission over and over again to figure out what is going to happen so 
 you can plan your strategy accordingly and position your fleet properly for the next cue. Capital 
 ships move so slowly that if they're not near the proper position when the next cue is introduced, 
 it's mission restart. I don't like that at all.
  
  One particularly frustrating misssion is when you must collect the core fragments from the destroyed 
 Bentusi mothership. Your military advisor tells you to send probes to the 3 radiation clouds where 
 a fragment is suspected to be found. Once you do this however, enemies jump in and start collecting 
 the cores themselves. You're given a timer of five minutes to destroy their carrier before they 
 they jump out and you lose. The only problem is.... it takes at least 3 minutes to move your scouts 
 around the radiation field to locate them (The enemy is immune to the radiation damage) and another 
 15 minutes to move your capital ships into position to engage. As you can see, you don't have enough 
 time to win. The only way to win this mission is to NOT send the probes, and (with your new-gained 
 insight into where the enemy will jump into the system at from your previous failures) move your 
 fleet to that position *before* you send the probes. Sending the probes or getting too close to 
 the fragments triggers the enemy to jump in. 
  
  This is but only one example. Most of the missions are like this. Strategy, tactics? Take those 
 and toss them out the window, this game is about learning the mission scripts. And that, to me, 
 is neither a good game nor enjoyable.
  
  I found myself saying "this is such **** many times when I played it. And any game that makes me 
 say that gets deleted off my hardrive after completing it, never to be played again. 
  
  Took about 12-15 hours to finish the game, so... fortunately the frustration was blessedly short
 
  
  Alz.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackOpsAce
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the latest and as i've unfortunatley heard the last of the series. It wasnt made to be 
 the last but after it's release relic was bought by THQ and the rights to the game got in the way. 
 But none-the-less it is still a GREAT series.
  
  This is the sequel to the RTS Game of the Year Homeworld. It is basicly the same gameplay but with 
 new twists and MUCH better grapics, but at the same time too much grapics for most people.
  
  The story, like it's predesistor is great and fun to follow. The cut-scenes are original and 
 creative. It is easily immersable but can get tiresum if you keep messing up.
  
  Gameplay is still as good as it always has been. You make your ships that now have subsystems. 
 You customize the ships but not enough to actually get into. It also gets kind of boring in the 
 very beginning, since you have to build of your fleet. Lots of micro-management but not too much.
 
  
  Multiplayer is to my dissapointment usually laggy. It takes a good computer to host enough players 
 to have fun. And there are almost always very few "servers" because of this.
  
  Moding although is some of THE BEST I"VE EVER SEEN. There are many mods that just kick butt. My 
 favorite is still the Point Defense Systems mod (its more then just wut it's name says) . There 
 are TC everywhere and its a lot of variety.
  
  This game is on my list for sure! (Behind Battlefield 1942 of course) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoicLeopard
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game made the space strategy genre. It is as fun to play as any of Relic's other games, which 
 is to say that it is alot of fun. The graphics still look good and can be run on just about any 
 computer with a 3d card now. The music is again rivaling that of most movies with a proffesional 
 orchestra and the cutscenes are done in an artistic black and white that highlights the important 
 moments as succintly as Casablanca. The tactics are one step above zerg rushing but it is still 
 a visceral pleasure to have a squad of cruisers tear into an enemy carrier group or have you swarms 
 of fighters pick to death their resource collectors. This is a classic and deserves to be played 
 by any who want a quality game espoecially given its ten to twenty dollar price now and the fact 
 it is better put together than most new ones (here's looking at you Pariah) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld 2 continues the epic struggle of the Hiigarans and their leader Karan S'jet. Many thought 
 their hardships would end when they returned to Hiigara, yet fate has not been so kind to the Exiles. 
 Now the Hiigarans face a new and bitter enemy, a renegade clan from the eastern fringes of the 
 galaxy, who wield the power of the ancients. Homeworld 2 chronicles the valiant journey of the 
 Mothership and its crew into the oldest regions of the galaxy to confront their new foe and discover 
 the truth behind their exile. 
  Features: 
  
  Totally new 3D engine
  An innovative 3D engine generates cinematic-quality graphics, stunning special effects, and beautifully 
 rendered ships. The sublime vistas and otherworldly splendor of Homeworld 2 are in the award-winning 
 tradition of the original. In-game cinematics flow seamlessly in and out of gameplay as players 
 command their armada around eerily beautiful phenomena of deep space, including giant asteroids, 
 massive derelicts, gas clouds, and nebulae light years across. 
  Streamlined interface
  A streamlined interface lets players take total control of their ships and explore the universe. 
 And all-new camera panning makes maneuvering fleets in the thick of battle easier than ever. Zoom 
 in to see objects in intricate detail, zoom out to get a panoramic view, or rotate your view of 
 deep space a full 360 degrees. 
  Stunning deep-space phenomena
  In the dynamic 3D universe of Homeworld 2 the awe-inspiring phenomena of deep space  giant asteroids, 
 huge derelicts, murky gas clouds, and vast nebulae  pulse with the energy that permeates the cosmos. 
 These fully interactive phenomena  some strategically helpful and others fraught with danger  
 add another dimension to gameplay. 
  All-new battle fleets
  Two all-new customizable battle fleets, each with unique capabilities and spacecraft, enhance Homeworld 
 2's strategic complexity and tactical flexibility. Players can now group ships in strike formations 
 that move together into combat. New ships such as the flak corvette and the marine frigate offer 
 innovative tactical choices, while capital ships have subsystems like engines and weaponry that 
 can be crippled while leaving the ship ready for capture. 
  Multiplayer mode for up to 6 players
  New multiplayer modes and features allow up to six players 
 to wage war via a LAN or over the Internet. Additional tools and modules enable the community to 
 develop new missions and mods.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dertinmann
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:46 am PT
Review:  Right, lets start with the good points.
  
  The graphics and sound have improved over the original, it all blends together to give you that 
 arabian dusk feel and atmosphere that we all (probably) loved from Homeworld. The details, shading 
 and effects are just top notch although I wouldve liked to have some more options in the graphics 
 tab.
  The new shipsystem is absolutely brilliant, God how I hate clicking through hundreds of ships at 
 a time. Well, no more of that since everything under frigate class is in a squadron now and reduces 
 micromanagement.
  The whole story feels alot more cohesive and the missions are entertaining and best of all: BIG! 
 We all love big, right?
  
  Oh noes, the bad points.
  Albeit very good sound and graphics the only thing that the sensory part of this game lacks is 
 soul. In the first both the visuals and soundtrack fitted perfectly with the scene that was played 
 and you could really tell they put some work into it. Not so in Homeworld2, its all nice but you 
 can really tell the motto was "make it sell" instead of "make it good". There is simply no depth 
 in it.
  The issue with lacking depth goes through all parts of the game, the graphics always look the same. 
 One large map with some desert coloured background and some particle clouds surrounding the playing 
 field. Yay for originality and variation?
  The gameplay. While the engine itself is awesome again there is just not depth, variation or detail. 
 Attack and move orders are basically the only commands that really have any effects upon the gameplay. 
 The units that you actually need are also minor. Interceptors, pulsar gunships, missile frigates 
 and some big guns. Thats really all you need to be pumping out since all the others are just pointless. 
 Yay for originality and variation?
  AI: Artificial Idiots. This game turned so easy once you knew how to exploit the AI. Your small 
 ships attract the opponents small ones. You destroy them. Your small ships attack the big guys 
 that have no guns for small ships and in the chaos you swoop in with your big ones. Simple as that, 
 mission after mission after mission after... Yay for originality and variation?
  The plot: the missions are all tied together like I mentioned, but oh dear: plotholes anyone? If 
 Makaan had planetkillers, why didnt he just hyperspace them in for the first assault and just... 
 won? Its also interesting that the only progenitor relics that havent faded after eons and eons 
 in space are the ones that you and makaan need to gain power. What a coincidence huh? Also, the 
 Bentusi just do not make sense and flip flop more than John Kerry. Then again they never did make 
 sense starting with the original Homeworld. Its so obvious that the producers were just out to 
 sell something with the Homeworld logo on it rather that trying to create something that again 
 redefined the genre. Half-Life 2 mustve got its inspiration from this game.
  
  All in all its easy to sum Homeworld2 up: nice little (short) game but very, very uninspired. 
 Unvaried and easy to finish once you spot the exploits. Buy it at your bargain bin if youre a 
 space strategy maniac like me. Rest of you: buy something else, just: anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerocool_THWC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game is gorgeous in your first hours of play you will occasionally lose a battle cauze you 
 where tracking a fighter or just dumbstruk by the visuals of an exploding capital ship. The sound 
 is awesome. The story will blow you away (one of the best parts of the game) . Rather rare are the 
 presentation of all the cinematics in black and white. At first one may say, that sucks, but it 
 really does add to the drama of the story. The missions were carefully thought out and are definitely 
 original.
  
  Well and finally the multiplayer ads a great deal of replay, just look at the amount of mods (relicforums) (8 
 finished 15+ indevelopment) .
  Homeworld is hard to master but a real must have for any rts fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The Homeworld franchise is back to the glory days! This is the third part of the Homeworld seris 
 and it has recovered from the slight low of the expansion (not saying that the expansion is bad 
 just not as good as the first) and has done it with style. I must say these are great graphics 
 they really blew me away after what the expansion graphics were like. In Homeworld 2 a new threat 
 has arrived a rebel warlord has united the galaxies rebels to fight the Homeworld. You have command 
 of a new enhanced mothership which shares the same shape as the original. If you are a fan of Homeworld 
 you will love this detailed and innovated sequil! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtCupCake2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  I cannot express how much i like this game. Its real time strategy with large scale fleet engagements 
 of massive capital ships down to the fighter make it on of the most unique and innovating games 
 of the genera. Luckily the game doesn't stop after you beat the single player missions as there 
 are a wide varity of mods you can download and i must say, some of them liek PDS mod are pretty 
 amazing. It takes what Homeworld 2 created and multiplied it times 10. New models, new ships, new 
 game variants, and even tripped out single player missions make it worthy of mentioning. And that 
 doesn't even begin to cover the overhaul of weapons each ship has bringing out extreme tactical 
 prowness. Definantly check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The one thing I can say about this game is that it made me quit being lazy and build a new computer 
 for myself just so I could play this one. A friend of mine introduced me to this and I have no 
 regrets for committing to it  although I must say that the graphics were probably the main thing 
 that suckered me into the game. The graphics, to say the least, were phenomenal. You can see sci-fi 
 movie quality effects and the sound even goes to the detail of the noise of metal warping and buckling 
 under stress from enemy fire. The campaign is a true saga, rivaling even Star Wars. Multiplayer 
 is really cool but the AI isnt much to talk about in case you use computer players. A nice feature 
 about the game is being able to target specific modules on capital ships. Does help out a lot when 
 you have your hands full and cant afford the luxury of waiting to take down the entire craft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostedCold
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  I can't believe how people can honestly give this game a score of 3.0!!! WTF? This game deserves 
 better than 3.0. That is just plain insulting towards Relic who has made an extremely good game 
 here. Everybody is addressing the waves of enemies and how frustrating it gets. Well it just goes 
 to show that you can't handle pressure very well. I loved the waves after waves of enemies, for 
 once a game actually tests your ability to strategize under overwhelming odds. Sure, the game can 
 get a bit boring after playing it through once. Been there done that kinda thing. The multiplayer 
 aspect also needs some work if Relic wants to create a game that keeps its appeal. The main reason 
 I don't play this game online is because of the lack of people playing it and the horrible ping 
 of the servers hosting games. I believe Relic has produced a somewhat flawed masterpiece, but a 
 masterpiece non the less. I would love to see a Homeworld 3 or something similar created by Relic. 
 By then I'm sure they'll have all issues addressed. Until such a time... I will wait in anticipation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  If you've ever wanted to command hundreds of ships in huge, epic space battles now is your time. 
 Homeworld2 is the original sci-fi 3D RTS, and it is definitly one of the best. Homeworld2 allows 
 you to build massive fleets of fighters, corvettes, frigates and capital ships in space, then take 
 them into battle against the enemy. There are 2 sides in Homeworld2, the Hiigarans (whom some may 
 remember from the original Homeworld) and the Vaygr. Although these sides play pretty much the 
 same, there are some differences that makes each side enjoyable to play. The single player campaign 
 is played from the perspective of the Hiigarans as they attempt to save their homeworld Hiigara 
 from the Vaygr invasion of the galaxy. This galactic romp will take you from Hiigaran outposts 
 to the edges of the galaxy in search of who or what was believed to first create space travel, 
 an extremely powerful entity known only as Sajuuk. The campaign is deep and involving will plenty 
 of action. It's a little harder than what some casual RTS players are used to, but for veterans 
 it's not too bad and presents a welcomed challenge. Ships are built from either the Mothership 
 or from Carriers. Homeworld2 only has one resource, which is actually an excellent idea. This takes 
 some of the stress out of resource management and puts more focus on combat with your enormous 
 fleet. With enough resources you can gain some pretty useful abitlites, such as the ability to 
 "Hyperspace" across the map instantly. Homeworld2 ships with a full skirmish and multiplayer component 
 as well as customization options to design the colours of your personal fleet. Overall, Homeworld2 
 comes down to be a great game that any fan of sci-fi and RTS who's looking for a challenge should 
 pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 14, 2004 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld 2 is a worthy sequel, don't get me wrong, and I still consider it as a reference in the 
 3D space combat sim genre. It's extremely difficult to develop a fully 3D sim in a space environment, 
 and the effort is impressive. Kudos to the devs for the hard time. Of course this is not the kind 
 of RTS for everybody, only fans of the series should apply believe me since I'm NOT one of them, 
 though I've thoroughly played the SP campaign - I had a hard time to finish it, the sole difficulty 
 level by default is... not for the easily frustrated.
  
  When I reached the last missions, 11-12 to 15, I've begun to be bored, all this ''give orders, 
 play, pause, give orders, play, pause, and watch battlecruisers on fire, etc..., and more battlecruisers, 
 ...'' in endless cycles without strategic variety ( great tactics though ) , that can be acceptable 
 for a time but not for all the rest of the campaign. The lack of variety in the environments ( 
 solar systems, asteroids fields, gas debris ) all of that looks all the same in time. Maybe it's 
 just me and some others, but the gameplay - otherwise fascinating - is also handicapped by some 
 camera problems and control. I know, I know, the camera is much improved over the original and 
 past titles of the genre, but still a lot of work to do remains. Taken alone, the graphics are 
 impressive oh yes. The scaling is a technical tour de force, if not magic. Colors are on point.
 
  
  Well above average, but not exceptional because of some glitchy control problems and residual bugs 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waffle
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 3, 2004 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played Homeworld, Cataclysm, and Homeworld 2. Homeworld I thought an excellent game; its 
 two races may have been mirror images, and some of the missions were merely ok, but its extremely 
 fun and ingenious new gameplay ideas made it one of my favorites. The music and storyboards were 
 extremely well done as well. Cataclysm I enjoyed even more, mainly because it kept what was great 
 about the original and added more enjoyable missions and very distinct races (somtaw, taidanii, 
 beast, bentusi, etc.) to make what I consider an almost perfect game. More content, mainly ships, 
 would have made Cataclysm the BEST. It still is one of my favorite games ever.
  
  Homeworld 2. Now we have a much improved graphics engine, which I consider excellent, and the same 
 great 3d gameplay. But now, the missions are much worse than in the first two games, with fewer 
 of them. The plot is dull and unimaginative. With a lack of any actual characters and few emotions 
 in the voice-overs, nothing makes you care about what happens. The races are once again practical 
 mirror images. Virtually every single part of Homeworld 2 is worse than its predecessors. While 
 it is still a good game of high quality, they have taken a step backwards. I read many previews 
 and studied every screenshot in eager anticipation of its release, and bought it the day it came 
 out, and ended up very disappointed. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallipolican
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2004 4:16 am PT
Review:  Homeworld 2 is a game where you can understand while your commanders kept giving you hard missions 
 in space combat fighter simulations all your life. It is simply reality. 
  
  While watching your Naval Shipyard blowing into pieces among with the rest of your fleet, you realise 
 that you have 3 squadrons of interceptors and one cruiser which sustained tens of enemy torpedos 
 just minutes ago. You have a few leftover resource collectors which can only fix your ship with 
 whatever resources you have left. And ofcourse you are burning with revenge. Against the enemy 
 fleet which is definitely more powerful than yours in all aspects you grab a drink, cross your fingers 
 and figure out a way to crush the Vagyr before you order your cruiser to self-destruct.
  
  This is my personal experience and it really pissed me off to lose my fleet. However from that 
 sound which comes out when you blow up an enemy destroyer to the small fire animations above ships, you 
 simply adore the game. Watch movies like Wing Commander and Star Wars or play good old games like 
 Wing Commander IV or Starlancer and see what those admirals were upto. Becuase with Homeworld 2 
 you can send them to do the impossible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2004 7:05 am PT
Review:  Homeworld 2 is a very worthwhile repeat of the original. New, better balanced units, and markedly 
 improved visuals really make Homeworld 2 a fine all-around game. It is still Homeworld, however, 
 so expect the same sort of play experience as the first. Your mothership/carrier fleet is the center 
 of the armada and these large ships supply and construct smaller vessels. One nice improvement 
 in the unit catalogue in Homeworld 2 is the super-massive capital ships (see Destroyer) . These 
 big fat gun wagons look great and lend a little Star Wars-ish grand opera feeling to the cinematic 
 gameplay. If only the Imperial March could play as the flotilla sets out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2004 10:32 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know what I was getting into when one of my friends at work gave me his old copy of Homeworld 
 2. I brought it home and it sat on my self for a while and I forgot about it. Eventually one bored 
 Tuesday morning I installed Homeworld 2, and didn't sleep for 2 days. Really no kidding.
  
  But seriously, Homeworld 2 is an amazing title. Pushing my PC just enough to give an addictive 
 and compelling gaming experience. 
  
  Many games have tried to create a fully 3D RTS space combat environment; and many have failed. 
 Homeworld 2 created a simple system of hotkeys and mouse control, with a straight forward HUD with 
 just enough cool ship schematics thrown in to make it look cool. 
  
  A nice steady research tree is embedded into the game, however this is the one thing that left 
 me dry about the Homeworld 2, by about halfway into the game you have all of the researchable things, 
 and no more things to discover (well thats not completely true but that would be a spoiler) ; I 
 would have liked a bit more of an in-depth research tree, but it didnt bother me that much during 
 play, only in hindsight. 
  
  But, the one thing that kept me playing even if i was beaten and had to start the very long missions 
 over again was: the story. A good story makes a good game, we all know that. Without a good story 
 a game can seem an unfulfilling experience. Groovy cinematic between the missions and amazing voice 
 acting too. Very soon into the storyline you feel compelled to continue, the sense of urgency in 
 the story invades you life. Or maybe thats just me... However it is a moving storyline that has 
 been written very well.
  
  The graphics engine can support a massive number of ships at a time, at an incredible framerate 
 (even on my PC which isn't that great i can tell you) . Any ship can be zoomed right into to look 
 at the articulated guns then zoom out to see a radar view of the battlefield in a matter of seconds.
 
  
  The music score is lovely, changing as the battles intensify. Totally classical in it's composition 
 and nice to listen to on it's own. The soundtrack is available form the games website. Clicking 
 on the ships will cause them to announce themselves, even in the heat of battle the seem cool and 
 collected; almost as if they realise that their death will not be in vain.
  
  All in all, Homeworld 2 is a satisfying gaming experience with a brilliant storyline that will 
 leave you begging for more. This game gets my seal of approval. Rock.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 30, 2004 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The great Homeworld 2, or is it that great. I have played the first and have reached very far but 
 have never finished it, don't know why but I just didn't. The first thing you will notice when 
 you launch the game is the improved graphics but its not a big leap from its predecessor but is 
 a very noticeable improvement. The game supports realtime shadows and some cool particle effects. 
 Overall the graphics is great and adds to the overall immersion of the game. One draw back is the 
 not to great performance, while very playable most of times, it goes close to a crawl when there 
 is alot of action on the screen and realtime shadows are activated.
  
  I am not a big critic of sound but the sound in the game is pretty good. Some people found the 
 music in the first one to be better, but honestly it more of the same, but in a good way. The narration 
 in this game has always been excellent and helps compel you to continue playing.
  
  Now unto the gameplay, which makes of breaks a game. The interface is very intuitive and much smoother 
 than the first. You select the ship and you get a list of building and research options. The over 
 controls are solid and is very similar to the original. Where the game falls apart is in the later 
 missions. Your unit AI while good can be problematic at times or downright annoying. There isn't 
 any option as far as I know that would make your units stand their ground. This makes certain missions 
 harder than they should because the micro management involved in making your units do as you would 
 like. The vareity of ships are that are available to you, feels limited which directly affects 
 the number of options that are possible. 
  
  As you play the game you would find the missions getting more and more difficult to the point where 
 difficulty feels cheap. There are way to many stages where the enemy keeps sending waves upong 
 waves of enemies. There are many times where its a 5+ to one ratio and this can be very frustrating. 
 When you're playing these missions, there is more or less one way in which you can do, that is 
 rush attack the computer. If you delay then you're trapped in a sea of enemies that has no end. The 
 first few mission plays well but as you near the middle of the game the missions feel annoyingly 
 gimmicky with the sudden twist in story and strange exiting of hyperspace which happens a bit too 
 often.
  
  I just finished game, and while it was enjoyable it was also painful to play at times. If you've 
 played the first one you will be disappointed with the current pacing of the game. The game requires 
 you to play fast yet everything in the game moves a bit slow. One aspect that I disliked was the 
 auto exiting of the mission unto the next. This may lead to problems for gamers who like beefing 
 up their forces before the next mission. So if you won the last mission with few survivors you 
 may be screwed for the next mission, which assumes you have a full fleet amd bombards you with 
 attacks. 
  Is the game worthy of $30? Hell yeah. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienrider
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2004 8:32 am PT
Review:  I am new to the whole Homeworld vibe, I remember reading about how a strong the fan base was but 
 from reviews I could never understand why. It always seemed like a space game with an RTS twist. 
 I love space games (cut my teeth on the BBC Elite ;-) , but the genre has had few sparks of ingenuity 
 until recently and Homeworld just didnt impress. I cant imagine why it didnt because if it is 
 anything like Homeworld 2, it must have rocked.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I think that Homeworld 2 is the best RTS game I have played, why because for the first time I actually 
 have to use strategy, something is which shockingly lacking in all but a few of the premier RTS.
 
  
  Homeworld 2 is different, build a load of gunship corvettes and expect a canny opponent to use 
 a bucket load of frigates. Specialise in fighters get whooped by corvettes etc etc. Even if you 
 build a general force, depending on the battle/mission you may have to retire ships so you can 
 reconfigure your fleet to adjust to the new types of threat you are dealing with. 
  
  And finally persistence, the fleet you build up you keep from mission to mission; get hammered 
 in a previous mission and its likely you may not make it through the next, this in itself is a 
 strategy revelation. It also lends continuity between missions and keeps you immersed in the game. 
 Everything seems so perfectly balanced in HW 2, its a joy to play, when I get hammered, I feel 
 compelled to understand why I got beat and how I can avoid it next time. 
  
  The story is very interesting especially if you are that epic space series/film fan! The cutscenes 
 both black and white animated clips and in game ones are wonderfully done, very cinematic and present 
 the mood and atmosphere of the game very well.
  
  My only minor gameplay criticism in HW 2 is that you are almost required to play through a mission 
 several times simply to get a handle on how it will play out. As HW 2 missions, though partly scripted, 
 give the feel of a real battle which is constantly changing as you work your way through it. So 
 the battlefield at the beginning of a mission is rarely what it will end like, as opposing forces 
 hyperspace in, new information is discovered etc. Nothing conveys what a space war would be like, 
 well like HW 2 does, and that can sometimes make it bordering on infuriating!
  
  Graphics:
  
  For me the star of the show, I love, nay worship HW 2 graphics and production 
 values! Sierra, Relic, put your teams on danger money! I have never seen such beautiful ships, 
 backdrops, etc ever. All capture the feel of future space ship technology and space so well! And 
 WOW when the battles kick off, Ive had to pick up my jaw of the floor. If you love nothing else 
 about the game and are a space sci-fi fan the battles alone will reel you in. They are truly magnificent. 
 Ive lost missions just going in close and watching (instead of managing) ions and gunfire and 
 torpedoes and missiles being exchanged between capital class ships and fighters and everything 
 else. Immense thats all I can say, thank you Relic for placing me in the most memorable space 
 battles I have ever been in involved in.
  
  Sound:
  
  For me the sound is very good but the weakest part of the package. The voice acting is very good 
 some bits dont quite work out, but overall really nice and carries the atmosphere of the game 
 well. The sound of the ships and the battles is spot on, ion cannons sound cool, bombers sound 
 hard hitting etc. The music is really good but there wasnt nearly enough variety in it especially 
 as you will spend a fair amount of time with this game, so you end up turning it down simply because 
 you have heard so much as by the time you reach the halfway point. And a minor thing I wished there 
 was more variety in the chatter. The chatter that is there is good just wished there was more of 
 it. 
  
  /Rant When will games allow you to plug in your own form of music via mp3s, CDs etc to play the 
 game to? Like Total Annihilation did. /End Rant
  
  Value:
  
  15 Missions and I am only on mission 6! What can I say, I havent seen value like this in an RTS 
 well in a long while, possibly ever. I have easily spent 8-9 hrs on those 6 missions and some of 
 that was to replay missions again so I could improve my fleet standing, or watch epic battles again. 
 Single players will find HW 2 is value for money, especially considering what you got with C&C 
 Generals (good game, so few missions) . Multiplayer I havent tried so I cant really comment.
 
  
  Overall:
  
  I am so glad I bought this, its a revelation and I am already looking forward to expansion packs, 
 sequels and mods. Really anybody who looked at the mayhem which ensued in the biggest Star Trek, 
 Babylon 5 and Star Wars space battles, really owe it to themselves to play this. Its that good, 
 but mind it can be hard and dont expect rush tactics to work! ;-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsylvester
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 17, 2004 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm very disappointed with this game. I like RTS games in general and was expecting this game to 
 be a break from the typical Warcraft/AOE clones that populate the genre, but boy was I misguided. 
 This game is tedious, frustrating and ultimately boring. 
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are top notch and give the feel of being in the clausterphobic, 
 yet infinite confines of deep space. But while the game is beautiful to look at, you really never 
 get a chance to appreciate it in all of its splendor because you're constantly in 2D trying to 
 keep up with all of the annoying ship building/trying to keep track of wave after wave of enemy 
 ships rolling in from off screen. And as far as moving your ships around in the extra dimension, 
 I found it to be a real pain in the ass at times.
  
  I'm sure that someday a fun and playable deep space RTS will emerge, but you'd be wise to pass 
 on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo_watson
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2004 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld 2
  
  
  
  Homeworld 2 is obviously the sequel from Homeworld. It would be unfair and unjust to think that 
 Homeworld 2 would surpass the graphical marvel that Homeworld, or even Cataclysm, were in their 
 golden days. However, the improvement of the UI, the trademark 3D universe and upgrade of graphics 
 are highly anticipated and well received. 
  
  The graphics have had a major overhaul with a new engine, but the right click rotation principle 
 remains. The most stunning element, however, is the level of detail on the ships, because the developers 
 have managed to do this without compromising the 3D environment. 
  
  The gameplay has been greatly improved also. It is now easier to have an overview of your ships, 
 enemies and allies. Strike groups and tactics are also important parts that have been upgraded.
 
  
  Overall, Homeworld 2 is more an upgrade that a sequel, which isnt a bad thing in this case.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truelove79
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2003 12:25 pm PT
Review:  okay, first off, this game is incredible. second off, it's not incredible. that sounds strange 
 but it's true. read every single positive thing on this game and it's all true so let me focus 
 on the bad points of the game. the missions are nowhere near realistic. the enemy in every mission 
 is freaking hard, all-knowing and just plain annoying. the mission layouts in HW1 were much better. 
 this one makes you think that relic wants you to lose. they set every mission up so you have play 
 it like 5 times to even come close to beating it, which is just a bummer. games like starcraft, 
 C&C: Generals, etc. are great because you could be just barely scraping by the entire mission and 
 still win giving an incredible sense of accomplishment much like real combat. in HW2, if you're 
 barely scraping by at any point in the mission, you're gonna lose. and if you don't lose in the 
 current mission, you will in the next one unless you can build like 2 dozen ships in 2 minutes. 
 basically the game is amazing except for the fact that the enemy knows what you're going to do, 
 how you're going to do it and when you're going to do it. and if they don't, they just send tons 
 of neverending ships at you. next time relic, try to challenge us, not beat us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 16, 2003 2:22 pm PT
Review:  It is a impressive game, however there are some things missing. It also has some crashing problems 
 when running everything max 1600*1200 ect. I feel like they have taken some of the stratgy out 
 of the game. Some of your ships are not as strong as they should be and the build limitations are 
 just a pain the ass. You can no longer have units of 20+ all in one formation, now they are just 
 3 and 5 even if all in a large group. When the fighting starts they go right back to the 3 and 
 5 unit strcture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gam934
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2003 8:09 am PT
Review:  In Homeworld 2, you control the mothership called, Pride of Hiigara, powered by the second hyperspace 
 core found in a desert planet. Hiigarans are being overrun by the Vaygr enemy forces, so obviously 
 you are up to the task of defeating the Vaygr, and its leader, who calls himself. "The Chosen One". 
 That seemed simple, but the story gets quite interesting when "The Prophecy" kicks in after a few 
 missions. 
  
  Homeworld 2 features the basic RTS modes: Singleplayer campaign, multiplayer over internet or LAN, 
 and skirmish against CPU. The story in single player campaign is told through well done black and 
 white videos as well as inmission cutscenes, and those are surely fun to watch. 
  
  Graphic improved alot since Homeworld. Although the ship models look pretty much the same, but 
 textures are so much better, and add details to the models. With shadowing turned on, the ships 
 look amazing. The damage effects on models are also very good, so you can tell when a ship is about 
 to explode. In additional, most of ships have subsystems like engine and facilities. You can actually 
 destory those subsystems to disable the ship's main functions before destorying the entire ship, 
 which is quite fun when you have the upperhand to torture enemy abit. 
  
  Sound effect and music are just right. One noticable good thing is all status reports are entirely 
 voice over with clean professional voice. There is no onscreen text notice when units are built, 
 which is great because there are already so much going on screen to have time to read. 
  
  The biggest issue that may drive some people away from Homeworld 2 is battlefield control/movement. 
 Battles are set in full 3D space with 360 degree camera rotation. There is no way you can play 
 HW2 without moving camera angle constantly to get a good look of the battles. People with no good 
 sense of 3D space might have a hard time telling the distance and height between two objects. Good 
 thing though, the game offers a great deal of control on camera movement, focus, and hotkeys. So 
 as long as you take time to learn the hotkeys and camera movements, you will be riding space in 
 no time. 
  
  Homeworld 2 is indeed very hard game, simply because there are so much going. Controlling camera, 
 ordering attacks, building new ships, researching new technology, and making decision about surviving 
 the tough situation you are often in all at same time is no easy task, so Homeworld 2 is not for 
 everyone, but the epic battles sure are alot of fun and worth the time. (By the way you can pause 
 the game anytime) 
  
  Overall Homeworld 2 is a great RTS in general and the best space-combat RTS you can find on the 
 market. HW2 might seem hard at first, but if you take some time to learn controls, you will find 
 it not hard at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unrest
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 21, 2003 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I literally just finished this game about an hour ago. I can't help but say that I'm still awestruck 
 at how fun this game was. I never really had the opportunity to play the original Homeworld game 
 or the Cataclysm expansion, so this review should serve as a little insight to newcomers of the 
 series. I was hugely impressed with the level of detail. I'm not a huge fan of RTS-style games; 
 I prefer tactical strategy and planning when it comes to combative games like this, and this game 
 really delivered there. 
  
  I could almost compare the game, in terms, to a tournament fighting game: you could literally sit 
 down and play a quick "match", not really worrying too much about "what buttons to push" (the tactical 
 planning involved) and still do well and have a load of fun, or you could sit and analyze the most 
 effective combinations of attack and be well rewarded for your efforts. 
  
  This game will reward you well for planning and taking a more thoughtful approach to the situation 
 rather than just pumping out as many units as you can and throwing them all at the enemy...
  
  Overall, the story in the campaign mode is just phenomonal. Since the gaming drought this summer, 
 we haven't seen many good releases, especially anything worth investing any significant amount 
 of time in. This game, however, engrossed me to the fullest extent of my attention span and kept 
 me begging for more. I can't remember the last time I played a game from start to finish in "one 
 sitting". 
  
  That's probably the only sour point I could make about the game, is that it's too short. Really, 
 I can't though because I don't think it felt too short. There are 15 highly detailed missions, 
 some of which will require a few tries to get through, each of which have some extensive cinematics 
 throughout.
  
  All-in-all, if you've never played the Homeworld series of games before, and enjoy tactical RTS 
 games, you should definitely drop the $40-50 on this one. One thing can't hurt though: download 
 the demo and check it out for yourself; if it even remotely interests you, then you've only touched 
 the tip of the iceberg and should run to the store as fast as you can and get this game!
  
  Ran the game on a P4 2.8GHz, nVidia GeForce 4 Ti4600 (120MB) , with 800MHz frontside bus and 512MB 
 of 232-pin 1066MHz RAMBUS. This game ran almost perfectly smooth for me throughout (even when running 
 some apps in the background) , but I have a pretty ridiculous setup. Unfortunately, I can't give 
 you a good benchmark on what will run this game well, but if you download the demo you'll probably 
 get a good idea of what you're in for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mop88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2003 1:27 pm PT
Review:  THis is a good game to buy, and don't listen to Karmafarmer's 4.4 review. The games AI DOES send 
 wave after wave of units to attack you... on hard mode. Begginers can enjoy the games easy mode, 
 where the Ai will only send one or two weak attacks that allow you to become comfortable with the 
 game. 
  
  Graphics: there have been better, but no one buys RTS games for their graphics anyway, so why should 
 you care. The game has beautiful explosion and detailed spacecraft, but sometimes the games frame 
 rate drops in multiplayer, but thats no big deal
  
  Gameplay: Very solid and easy to use. I myself never played the original Homeworld, but was able 
 to easily step into the game and get right to playing and creating massive (and cool looking) armies/navies 
 in no time.
  
  Sound: excellent sound effects, explosions and laser fire are top-notch. I would have preferred 
 some variation in unit aknowledgments like in Warcraft 3 and other RTS', but oh well.
  
  Value: Great, good campaign inifite replay value online, and you can always arange player vs. CPU 
 games whenever you want on the variety of maps. 
  
  In all, this game is fantastic, worth the money because of its addictive and unique gameplaye, 
 simple controls, and flawless execution of all the rest. GO ahead and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 20, 2003 10:58 pm PT
Review:  First things first. This is a great game, but if you are looking for a game that wont take some 
 thought to beat then this isnt your cup of tea. This game is pretty difficult. The only real downfall 
 of this is that you cant set a difficult level for the campaign so basically you keep playing a 
 mission until you figure out how to beat it. That aside. This game is gorgeous. The sound is awesome. 
 The story will blow you away. Rather rare are the presentation of all the cinematics in black and 
 white. At first one may say, that sucks, but it really does add to the drama of the story. The 
 missions were carefully thought out and are definitely original. Basically, if you want a gorgeous 
 game that will kick your butt as much as you kick its then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicman4774
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 19, 2003 1:47 pm PT
Review:  While beautiful to look at, there are some significant flaws. Firstly, the AI sends wave after 
 wave of attackers at you, never giving you a chance to draw a long breath between waves, whcih 
 seriously detracts from the enjoyment of the game. Second, the auto-hyperspace at the end of the 
 missions takes control of the tempo of the game away from the player. 
  
  Unlike Homeworld, the player cannot customize the paint jobs for their fleet in single player. 
 Also in Player vs CPU, the number of opposing units in the maps are fixed. While I thoroughly enjoyed 
 Homeworld, I find this version frustrating and annoying rather than enjoyable. Hopefully the first 
 patch will address these, and other, issues. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
