-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Homeworld: Cataclysm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/homeworldcataclysm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.9, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 851 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Barking Dog
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 7, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Veterans of the first game will also be quick to notice some interface changes and gameplay enhancements. 
 However, Homeworld's beautiful graphics, top-notch sound, and 3D play mechanics remain intact. 
 

 Homeworld was an excellent game that brought real-time strategy into the third dimension. The great 
 graphics, incredible sound and music, and true-3D gameplay made it a favorite among strategy fans 
 and critics. Nevertheless, the game did have a few problems, even though it was widely considered 
 to be an excellent first effort from Vancouver-based developer Relic. Relic has since passed the 
 reins of Homeworld to another fledgling developer, Barking Dog Studios, which has created the stand-alone 
 expansion Homeworld: Cataclysm. It attempts to fill the gaps in Homeworld by providing deeper gameplay 
 without compromising the essence of the game, which is to portray awesome ship battles in deep 
 space. Homeworld: Cataclysm eschews the setting of the original game and offers a new 17-mission 
 campaign, a new faction that has a lineup of unique ships, and a completely new villain to fight. 
 Veterans of the first game will also be quick to notice some interface changes and gameplay enhancements. 
 However, Homeworld's beautiful graphics, top-notch sound, and 3D play mechanics remain intact. 
   

  Cataclysm begins 15 years after the conclusion of the events in Homeworld. The unified front among 
 the Kushan people has disappeared now that they have reclaimed their homeworld, Hiigara, and split 
 into their ancient, bickering clans. You play as one of the disenfranchised clans, the Kiith Somtaaw, 
 who has had to seek its fortune in deep-space mining. While in space, you answer a distress call 
 from a fellow Kushan vessel under attack by remnants of the Taidan empire, and you are thrust into 
 a role that takes you from being just an innocent mining clan to being the saviors of the galaxy. 
 This is how the single-player campaign starts, and it ramps up quickly, as you face successive 
 missions of increasing difficulty and significance. Although you start out helping a fellow clan 
 fight Taidan imperialists, you soon stumble upon a greater threat that has descended upon the divided 
 galaxy.   

  This great enemy is an ancient techno-organic virus called the Beast, which assimilates ships and 
 turns them into a ravenous collective - not unlike Star Trek's Borg. Slowly, the collective intelligence 
 of the Beast adds to its power by assimilating Taidan, Kushan, Turanic, and even Bentusi ships 
 into its armada. You discover this information early on in the game. Soon you must rush across 
 the galaxy to save fellow clans from being absorbed, all as you fight Beast ships, hunt down lost 
 vessels, and learn more about where the Beast came from - and how to stop it.   

  The missions of the single-player campaign are of similar quality to those in Homeworld. Every 
 mission has changing objectives and an ongoing story that gradually reveals new developments that 
 will surprise you and often catch you off guard. However, this suspenseful quality proves to be 
 a constant source of frustration, as it reinforces the puzzle-like mission design that was also 
 found in the original Homeworld. Your first time through a mission is often just an intelligence 
 run, as you find yourself tentatively probing each new area to see where the surprises are and 
 what the location and makeup of your enemies is. Inevitably, you'll be ill prepared to deal with 
 the change-ups, and you'll need to restart - but then you'll be armed with the knowledge gained 
 in your initial attempt at the mission. This trial-and-error approach that's often necessary to 
 adopt to successfully complete the game's missions will undoubtedly frustrate some players, so 
 it's advisable to save your game often during each battle. Fortunately, the missions themselves 
 are interesting and well designed, albeit quite difficult, and the latter missions especially are 
 more rewarding than the rote missions in the latter half of Homeworld. However, Cataclysm does 
 lack the distinct sense of wonder you may have experienced in Homeworld, such as when you first 
 encountered the Bentusi or when you entered the Garden of Kadesh. The cinematic and mysterious 
 sense of the original Homeworld isn't quite intact in Cataclysm, but the game's linear campaign 
 is nevertheless well paced and the gameplay more substantial.   

  The high difficulty of the Cataclysm missions indicates that the game is for Homeworld veterans, 
 although newcomers who don't mind frequent restarts will still find the game rewarding, if a bit 
 more frustrating. The excellent tutorial does a good job of teaching you the basics, but the interface 
 will still be daunting for those new to the real-time strategy genre. What makes the game's missions 
 especially hard is the Beast itself, which will assimilate your ships in mid-mission, thereby diminishing 
 your forces while simultaneously bolstering its own by turning your forces against you. This prospect 
 will force you to play much more defensively and deliberately than you may be used to, and it calls 
 for much more diligent control of your ships. It is a welcome consideration to the gameplay in 
 a genre that often only requires that you select a large group of units and send them toward the 
 enemy using a general attack command.    

 Aside from the new campaign, the other big feature in Cataclysm is the force of the Somtaaw Kiith 
 itself, which boasts an all-new array of ships and technology. The Somtaaw have more special abilities 
 and more upgrades than the races in Homeworld. You can research upgrades to your ships, not only 
 to give them better armor and weaponry but also to give them special abilities. For example, the 
 standard acolyte-class fighter can gain missiles and linking technology. The latter technology 
 lets two acolytes link up to form a frigate-class ship, which can in turn gain a special ability 
 called the EMP blast, which can temporarily stun enemy vessels. Another ship, the mimic, can disguise 
 itself as an enemy ship or even as an asteroid so that it can infiltrate enemy lines and then kamikaze 
 into unsuspecting enemy vessels. In fact, several missions in the game require that you use the 
 mimic ship and its unique ability to sneak behind enemy fortifications. Several other ships have 
 other unique abilities that make the Somtaaw fleet more fun to use than the old Kushan and Taidan 
 ships in Homeworld. Ships in Cataclysm also gain experience as they rack up kills, which gives 
 them bonuses to attack and damage, although never to the point that it seems to significantly change 
 or unbalance combat.   

  In addition to new ships and technology, the concept of supply has been added to the game. This 
 puts a clear limit to the amount of ships you can have in your fleet, unlike in Homeworld where 
 the unit limit was ambiguous and artificial. Now, different ships take up different supply units; 
 for instance, a dreadnought takes up 80 supply, while a recon ship takes up just two supply. Like 
 in Blizzard's Starcraft, this means you can't just crank out a swarm of superships, because you'll 
 need to balance your fleet's makeup with due consideration for your supply limit, which can be 
 increased by building support modules and carriers.   

  Your Somtaaw command ship also operates a little differently from the Homeworld mothership. For 
 one thing, it can actually move, and you'll find that in many missions, you will want to navigate 
 your ship through the map to get to victory objectives faster. Also, the command ship is now modular, 
 meaning you can build different supplemental modules to make the ship more useful and powerful. 
 You can build supply modules to support larger fleets, an engineering module to research engine 
 and drive technologies, a weapons module for advanced weaponry, and so on. The modularity of your 
 command ship means that technology research is now divided into a five-branch tree, which along 
 with the many new special ability technologies, different ships, and upgrades means Cataclysm is 
 a much more strategic game than Homeworld, which had a fairly linear tech tree. In Cataclysm there 
 are a lot more choices, meaning there are a lot more options for how to play.   

  The graphics in Cataclysm are gorgeous, especially at very high resolutions. There is now a new 
 pilot view that lets you see through a first-person view from any of your ships, and in this mode, 
 dogfights look spectacular, as laser blasts and explosions light up the screen while fighters and 
 capital ships fill your view. The Somtaaw ship designs are good, though perhaps not quite as distinctive 
 as the original Kushan and Taidan fleets. Unfortunately, the Beast ships don't look very interesting; 
 they're mostly just the old recycled ships with red textures. Cataclysm's sound effects, which 
 were a strong point in Homeworld, also aren't quite as good as in the original, although they are 
 still commendable by any other standards. While every unit now has its own voice and lines of speech, 
 the voice acting is inconsistent throughout the game. The atmospheric music in Cataclysm is subtler 
 than in Homeworld, but still good.   

  The multiplayer options in Cataclysm aren't that much different from Homeworld's, although now 
 you play as the Somtaaw or the Beast instead of the Kushan or Taidan. It's just as well, since 
 the Beast and Somtaaw clearly outmatch the original Homeworld factions. The game's many new strategic 
 options, and the Beast assimilation ability, should make for more exciting multiplayer matches 
 than in Homeworld, where the two playable sides were very similar.   

  Cataclysm also features a few less glamorous enhancements that are nonetheless significant, such 
 as the improved interface. You can issue waypoint movement orders now, and you can also access 
 unit information via the tab button, which brings up an information box that displays a unit's 
 hit points, armor, weapon damage, and special abilities. You can also focus on an enemy unit and 
 see its health bar. While Homeworld was deliberately cryptic in the amount of information it displayed, 
 Cataclysm presents all the statistics that strategy players would want. What's even more welcome 
 is the addition of the ability to issue attack, guard, and other commands from the sensors manager, 
 which lets you manage and command your fleet from a strategic overview. These enhancements make 
 controlling and inspecting your fleets a lot easier. Cataclysm also has a time-compression feature, 
 which alleviates some of the excruciatingly slow pace of the original Homeworld by letting you 
 speed up time during lulls in the action or at the end of a mission when all you want to do is 
 just mop up the resources.   

  Homeworld: Cataclysm adds a lot of depth and strategy to the original game, in addition to an original 
 story and two new fleets, but it preserves the essential gameplay. The missions are well designed, 
 although their solutions are often a bit too puzzle-like, but in general the game plays well and 
 stays interesting. The new faction is well designed, and it has a lot of interesting new ships 
 and abilities, while the revamped interface really does improve the gameplay. Where Cataclysm fails 
 to live up to its predecessor is in production values; the music and sound aren't quite as good 
 as Homeworld's, and the epic scope of Homeworld is also missing. However, although the cinematic 
 quality of the game is a notch below Homeworld, the game itself is more solid. Therefore, fans 
 of Homeworld should certainly try Cataclysm, since it provides all-new experiences and noticeable 
 gameplay improvements. And if you haven't played Homeworld, then Cataclysm is still a good way 
 to introduce yourself to the series, as long as you don't mind a challenge.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is one of the very few games that require no description, only experience. I don't know 
 how much time I have spent in playing this game, but I have to say that this game deserves every 
 hour and a half or more that you can spare. The combat system, though very straightforward and 
 simple at times, makes sure that you can focus on the bigger challenges. Graphics are okay, from 
 the point of view of simulated space, and the music makes you feel your victory and defeat like 
 you own it.
  
  What this game has that most others lack is a very engaging storyline. I won't spoil it for anyone, 
 but let's just say that Homeworld and it's sequels mesh together to form tales that all of us will 
 remember for a very long time. I heartily and sincerely suggest this game to all.
  
  While it more or less rides the wave created by it's predecessor, Cataclysm nonetheless makes for 
 an excellent expansion. At some points it does feel like overkill on the part of the developers, 
 but then you forget this as soon as the Bentusi arrive...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld: Cataclysm is an expansion to Homeworld, but its not like most expansions in several 
 ways. First off, its a stand-alone expansion, so if your curious where Relic got the idea to make 
 Dawn of War: Dark Crusade standalone as well- they may have been inspired by Cataclysm. Whatever 
 the case, Cataclysm is another great outing for the Homeworld franchise as it manages to offer 
 alot to both newcomers and veterans alike.
  
  The story of Cataclysm takes place a while after the original's storyline. The Hiigarans made it 
 to Hiigara- and are now busy building themselves a new empire, but not all of Hiigaran kind is 
 doing all that well. One of the not-so-well-off groups of Hiigarans is kiith Somtaaw, and these 
 are the guys you control in the campaign. The whole campaign starts when Kiith Somtaaw finds an 
 alien artifact in deep space near Hiigaran space. Upon investigating the artifact, they end up 
 releasing its contents, which happens to be a malevolent alien lifeform that comes to be known 
 as The Beast . So for the rest of the campaign, its up to you to lead Kiith Somtaaw in their efforts 
 to destroy the being they let loose upon the galaxy.
  
  Cataclysm's campaign is arguably better and more enjoyable than the original campaign since there 
 is much more variety in mission objectives this time around. Its also just about the same length, 
 though it ultimately comes off as shorter since many of those missions won't take you quite as 
 long as some of the original's missions would. Its also a tad easier than the original campaign. 
 The single player campaign serves as a very good way to get familiar with one of Cataclysm's two 
 new races, Kiith Somtaaw. Kiith Somtaaw doesn't use any of the old Hiigaran ships, so their fleet 
 selection is entirely unique. But that doesn't mean a veteran will have to learn how to use his 
 fleet all over again, for many of the Somtaaw ships work similiarly to certain hiigaran counterparts. 
 For instance, the Hive Frigate is essentially a more combat capable Drone frigate since it has 
 its own weapons other than its drones. The other new playable race in the game is the Beast, who 
 will be much more familiar to veterans since its standard fleet consists almost entirely of old 
 homeworld ships. The thing about the Beast however, is that it can capture enemy ships and then 
 disband them to learn their technolagies and how to build them. So if they captured a hive frigate 
 with an infection beam- they could retire the hive frigate and then start building them. The two 
 races give Cataclysm's skirmishes a bit more variety than the original's skirmishes, since the 
 races are no longer carbon copies of each other. This alone is a great improvement, at least in 
 theory. Thing is, the two seperate races here are for some reason not quite as fun to use as the 
 original homeworld's fleets. Maybe its just because there are no super-cool standard ion-cannon 
 frigates in skirmishes anymore (The Turanic raider ion-cannon frigate ain't nearly as cool even 
 though the beast gets it in skirmish mode...) ? Perhaps... Or maybe its simply because the fleet 
 selection for both races is not quite as large as it was in the original fleets.
  
  Graphically, Cataclysm uses the exact same graphics the original game used, so it looks great. 
 The Somtaaw ships however benefit from higher detail levels than the original ships. The Beast's 
 ships however are merely carbon copies of the captured ships with red stuff all over them, not 
 very appealing, though the beast Mothership is an impressive sight to behold. Sound wise, Cataclysm 
 uses the exact same sound set as the original, with the only exception being in the voice acting 
 department. Cataclysm gives most of the new ships a unique voice over, and some of these voice 
 overs can be surprisingly funny. The campaign makes very good use of the new voice overs as well. 
 Its ultimately very effective, and a nice change from Homeworld's repetitive voices.
  
  Ultimately, Cataclysm offers something for both veterans and newcomers. Both sides will undoubtedly 
 enjoy the new campaign, and the skirmishes benefit from the new unique races. There are still a 
 few problems, but Cataclysm is ultimately highly recommendable.
  
  Pros: Two new unique Races. Enjoyable campaign. Graphics are still very good. Surprisingly good 
 and occasionally funny voice acting.
  
  Cons: New races aren't quite as satisfying as the original's fleets.
  
  Recommendable for: 
 Newcomers and Veterans alike should be able to enjoy Cataclysm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinyblaster
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this several years ago, I was hooked. Not only is the gameplay fantastic, but 
 the graphics are great even by today's standards. I spend hours playing this game and looking for 
 Homeworld related art on Deviantart. If you want a RTS that has a heart breaking story and addictive 
 gameplay, get Homeworld on Amazon, now. This game is one of those rare gems that you HAVE to own. 
 The game will run on almost any Windows system easily, and the graphics handle greatly on any card. 
 The main story is that you are the Kushan, a race of exiles being hunted by the Taiidan Empire. 
 Now you are a Kiith known as the Somtaaw, you discover a entity known as the Beast which fuses 
 the crew of the ship into one. The story is very heart breaking and exciting. Really, please buy 
 this game, just do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasc00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Good multiplayer, better then the first one's
  Good controls
  You can change the difficulty level
  Fun
  
  The bad:
  Story isn't as good as the first 
 one's
  Graphics aren't as good as the firsts for some odd reason. notice its more pixalated then the first 
 one?
  Not as good music
  
  If you love homeworld get this anyways! *thumbs up*
  
  9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 
 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8
  
  oddly i beleive i put 100 words on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  A sequel to homeworld, not actually a sequal but a stand alone game in the homeworld universe. 
 Again, the most major thing that makes this game fit in with Homeworld, is that the story line 
 is kick ass. Hey, you get to kick some alien ass in this game. (You should be glad because in the 
 game the beast just devoured your brothers and sisters...) The graphics are great, sound and music 
 is once again awesome, and the gameplay is even better! It is even easier to get the hang of it 
 with easier to access toolbars and hotkeys. This game is truely and awesome game on all perspectives. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  With this sequel to the award winning Homeworld you are thrown back into the universe of Homeworld. 
 In this sequel you play as a struggling Kith in the complex new government of the Homeworld. You 
 play as Kith Somtaaw and you mothership is now one of two Kith Somtaaw mining vessels which answers 
 a distress call made by the Homeworld to defend it agianst the remaining taiidani forces. After 
 this initial attack you follow orders to investigate a missing ship where after you find a small 
 alien craft which you bring aboard your mothership. Unfortunatly a biometialic like virus infects 
 your ship and your crew turning them agaisnt you. You must track down this virus and destroy it 
 to protect your Homeworld. Overall its a solid game a little to easy and the graphics were a tad 
 dissapointing. Also the multiplayer was a little limited. But if you enjoyed the first youll love 
 this one just as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadgerRavenmoon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, no one seems to give Cataclysm its due. The concept was interesting, and certainly 
 original relative to other games that came before. But because it compared so weakly to its predecesor, 
 and what didn't, many wrote this game off. When the Homeworld 2 appeared, everyone wrote how great 
 IT was, but Cataclysm has better gameplay, the interface is far more intuitive, and it did not 
 sacrifice replay quality for snappy graphics.
  
  What sets the game apart from both the other Homeworld games and other Real-Time Strategy games 
 is that it never bogs down. This is certainly related to the ability to speed up time during more 
 tedious activities like harvesting resources and crossing wide spans of space. The addition of 
 Slipgating and the ability to hyperspace at will makes multi-player games vastly superior to Homeworld 
 2 and increases replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2004 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Cataclysm is a great addition to the Homeworld saga. It intoduces many new ships, research technologies, 
 and stategies to the Homeworld galaxy. The plot is probably the best part of the game because of 
 the twists and turns the player goes through when fighting the terrible Beast. The storyline is 
 different enough that you don't have to have played the original Homeworld to understand what's 
 happening. The game contains many difficulty levels, which gives it good replayability. It's similar 
 enough to the original Homeworld that it seems very familar but there are enough changes in it 
 to make it different than Homeworld. Like Homeworld, the graphics are great and the ability to 
 move around in 3D space is probably one of best gameplay features in the game. All-in-all, I recommend 
 this game to any space strategy gamer and anyone who owns the original Homeworld. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
