-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Homeworld
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/homeworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  7, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.9, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 2,192 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Relic
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Homeworld is both an excellent game and one that may well reshape the entire real-time strategy 
 genre. 

 Relic's Homeworld is the sort of game that can inspire unbridled hyperbole in game reviewers. With 
 its stunning 3D engine, uniquely challenging gameplay in both single- and multiplayer modes, great 
 audio, and terrific story, Homeworld is both an excellent game and one that may well reshape the 
 entire real-time strategy genre.  

 It begins with an epic discovery: An ancient starship, buried deep beneath the sands of your home 
 planet Kharak, contains evidence indicating that your people descended from aliens who colonized 
 the planet many centuries ago. Spurred on by this discovery, your people construct a massive mothership 
 with hyperspace capabilities and undertake an expedition to find their true homeworld. However, 
 you complete your first hyperspace jump only to run smack into a swarm of hostile aliens, which 
 proceed to reduce Kharak to a burning wasteland. Now, with only the mothership to call home, you 
 must lead the fleet onward to your fabled homeworld, exacting vengeance for Kharak along the way. 

 Most of the plot unfolds by way of elaborate cutscenes created using the game's 3D engine. The game 
 also makes use of some slick hand-drawn animation to convey other elements of the story. These 
 black-and-white scenes have a simple but gritty look to them, and they work exceptionally well 
 with the flashy 3D cinematics.  

 Homeworld's gameplay is in fact fairly similar to any tried-and-true real-time strategy game. You 
 have a fleet under your command and must guide it through a series of 16 missions by building more 
 vessels, researching new technologies, and harvesting resources from asteroids and dust clouds. 

 However, in spite of the basic formula, Homeworld manages to feel like a very different breed of 
 game. Your ships and resources carry over from mission to mission. This can result in very different 
 playing habits designed to preserve your precious fleet. After all, it's the only one you have. 
 For example, you'll come to rely on vessels like the support frigate to repair your damaged ships 
 so they are ready for the next mission. Similarly, you might find yourself sticking around after 
 completing your mission goals to harvest every last ounce of space dust available. Thankfully, 
 Homeworld lets you do this sort of thing, because you control when you exit each mission regardless 
 of when and how the mission goals are accomplished.  

 But the most obvious difference between this and other real-time strategy games is the true 3D nature 
 of the gameworld. You're in deep space, after all, so there is no restriction on the direction 
 in which your units may travel. As a result, you'll have to learn to think and move using three 
 axes at all times. This can be extremely confusing if you jump right in, which is why you ought 
 to go through Homeworld's excellent tutorial regardless of your experience with real-time strategy 
 games. One thing the tutorial doesn't teach you is the best way to keep track of your units once 
 a battle begins. Though you have numerous options for organizing your ships - including a variety 
 of formations and three different attack styles - it can be quite easy to scatter them across the 
 galactic map if you're not careful. The main culprit here is the convoluted 3D movement command. 
 In order to move your ships along the Z-axis, you must first click on an X-Y destination, then 
 hold the shift key and move the mouse to indicate the distance up or down that you wish your ships 
 to travel. Be warned that this system can be incredibly difficult to master, especially if you 
 don't take the time to line things up perfectly.  

 Fortunately, you won't mind retrying some of Homeworld's missions a few times until you get them 
 right, because you never get the sense that the computer is cheating you. These missions are challenging, 
 especially towards the end of the campaign, but they are fair. Even so, you may be put off by the 
 complete lack of a difficulty setting.  

 You'll also enjoy playing Homeworld repeatedly because it has some of the most impressive graphics 
 ever. This 3D engine is stunning, with an acute attention to detail that is staggering. Every ship, 
 from the tiny scout fighter to the lumbering heavy cruiser, is amazingly detailed, right down to 
 markings on the hull and individually animated gun turrets. One of the coolest features in the 
 game is the ability to zoom right in on a single ship and follow it through a battle - every turn, 
 maneuver, and shot fired is brought to life, and you get a front-row seat for all of it.  

 The ship design itself is also pretty impressive. And though the two sides in the conflict have 
 nearly identical arsenals (there are only two unique ship classes per side) , each has a completely 
 different stylistic approach that is consistent throughout the fleet. Weapons effects are suitably 
 spectacular, and explosions are also very cool, especially when the doomed vessel is penetrated 
 by a beam weapon as it blows up - an effect that recalls those great ship explosions from the old 
 Star Blazers cartoons.  

 The audio in Homeworld is just as impressive as the graphics engine. The new-age musical score may 
 not appeal to everyone, but it does a great job of setting the whole "space is really, really big" 
 mood. The unit acknowledgments and sound effects are equally good, though it can be difficult to 
 determine which of your units is asking for more fuel when the call comes in during a heated battle. 

 Homeworld's multiplayer support is excellent. The game lets up to eight players compete over the 
 Internet via WON. net. LAN play is also provided, with both IPX and IP networks supported. In multiplayer 
 matches, you can fully customize the game settings, including the presence, skill level, and hostile 
 tendencies of any AI opponents. A skirmish mode is also included if you only wish to play against 
 computer opponents. Resource availability can be modified, and harvesting can even be deactivated 
 completely. The alternative is a periodic infusion of resources for all players. Regrettably, some 
 players have experienced random drops and crashes during online play, and the game tends to really 
 slow down or shut down completely if you throw too many ships into the mix.  

 Homeworld does have a few other issues that deserve mention. There is no way to tell how much damage 
 an enemy ship has sustained. Even though your own ships have clearly visible health bars, the status 
 of enemy ships remains unknown until just before they explode, at which point they begin to smoke 
 and burn. And while you can play the game as either of the two warring parties, the single-player 
 campaign is exactly the same for each side. It seems like Relic really dropped the ball here, since 
 even a perfectly parallel campaign would have been a welcome diversion - and a way to extend the 
 life of the meager single-player game. In fact, an opposing story with an equally positive spin 
 on the conflict would have been downright cool.  

 Even so, any complaints about the basic design or mechanics of Homeworld are minor at best. This 
 is one of the best games you'll see this year: The phenomenal 3D engine, the great story, and the 
 stellar gameplay all combine seamlessly in what will surely become a longtime favorite for many 
 gamers.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (47 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jangofett2688
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  I think Homeworld is a great game. It had very good graphics (considering when it was made) , awesome 
 game play, and a great story line. Homeworld lets you command an army in a 3D space RTS game. There 
 are many ship classes such as: Fighters, Corvette, Frigates, and capital class. It's not very hard 
 if you compare it to other RTS. The only thing that might get you is that it's 3D, many times when 
 I started playing I would get attacked from the top or bottom and had many casualties. When you 
 play Homeworld if you are doing free play and have all the money you want then you better be consistently 
 building stuff, but if you are doing story mode or have little RU's then be conservative unless 
 you want to end up in a situation were most of your ships are gone you have no money and your mother 
 ship is under attack by a huge army. Not good, not good at all. If I could change anything about 
 the game I would add more ships, but they already did that in Homeworld 2. I give Homeworld a 9/10 
 because it is amazing but it dose not come close to Homeworld 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hostX9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The Story:
  The game is a truly masterpiece because of the great story. It's true that you have to read the 
 historical guide to get all the storyline information, (and it takes your time) but it's not so 
 hard to read it cause it's like reading a fantastic science-fiction book. Playing the game by understanding 
 the whole story is like being a part of it. It moves your emotions and you feel like those who 
 are trying to go home to their homeworld Higara.
  
  The Game play:
  
  Good:
  As much as great as the story is also the game play. You encounter different styles of missions, 
 so you're not always eradicating the enemy like is some strategy games. Sometimes you shoot of 
 asteroids, salvage a ships by fighting through a minefield and ships who steal your frigates, making 
 your way thought a high X-ray area etc. You never get bored about the differences of 16th missions. 
 The movies through the game guide you perfectly across the story. The speed of building new fleets 
 is just right and collecting the resources is well made. You have to set up the resource collection 
 only at the beginning of a mission and usually you don't have any concerns about it anymore.
  The warning system is really sophisticated and the voice warns you what's going on all the time. 
 You don't know how helpful this is until you get to a mission when Fleet Command (she is the warning 
 system) is disabled. 
  The control of ships is at the beginning a bit difficult, (you get also a tutorial) but with a 
 bit of practice you can master it so, it's won't be an obstacle anymore (but just with some glitches) .
 
  
  Bad:
  Well as we have talked about the control above, it's true that sometimes the whole thing is getting 
 harder when a lot of ships come together on one place. The game is in 3D and sometimes you don't 
 have a clear overview of what's going on in every part of the battle. But this isn't so bad as 
 it hears because Fleet Command is all the time giving you the information of happening.
  One more thing which is making the whole game long and sometimes boring, are the long distances 
 you have to cover with the fleet to gather to the enemy or a certain location. And here is what 
 I missed, the time accelerator. It would really come in handy to speed up form time to time the 
 whole happening. 
  
  My score is 9.5 because the game is truly a masterpiece. The 0.5 to the 10 is missing because of 
 the insufficient control and long distances.
  I suggest this game to all who like similar games like "Nexus: The Jupiter Incident"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:27 pm PT
Review:  First off, This game takes a little time to adapt to. Back in the day, I was the only kid on my 
 block that had a P. C. that could run this game. And even then, I had to tone down the detail so 
 I wouldn't get Slow down or, crash. I didn't even have a mouse wheel or, a third button. Just a 
 2 button, ball mouse. But, It was so worth it! This game was, and still is awesome! Now unlike 
 most R. T. S games, this isn't some game where you sit back, harvest resources, build a huge army, 
 swamp the enemy and, move on to the next level. Well, you can try.... but, you will die miserably 
 every time. and just because you research and build the most powerful ships doesn't mean you won't 
 need the other lesser ships. EVERY ship class has a roll to play and, its up to you to figure out 
 what ships to use in the right situations. bigger isn't always better when it comes to this game. 
 screw up, and you will have to witness your beautiful mother ship get reduced to flaming scrap 
 metal. Strangely, it is depressing and sad to see that happen. The story itself has a way of dragging 
 you in, which is something only a few games can do nowadays. and that's why this is one of may 
 all time favorite R. T. S games ever. I could go on and on but, I still wouldn't do this game justice. 
 Just play it. Trust me. This is coming from a kid that played this game on a basic, IBM, Aptiva, 
 486 P. C, with a 2 button Ball mouse, Its worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommandZer01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  in this day and age unique doesn't always cut it, and the ability to capture people who aren't 
 into orcs and knights is something of a hard ship to actually pull them, and here is homeworld, 
 a game that adds a great story, and another axis to create for some interesting and unique gameplay.
 
  
  
  STORY:
  
  The story of homeworld is very complext for a RTS game, your planet is a lie, you are an alien 
 to the planet you have called home for so long, and now thanks to the discovery of the "guidestone" 
 your true homeworld is far away, and its time to return. You build a mothership and its up to you 
 and the crew of the galactic.... I mean mothership to get back home. The threats are unknown and 
 space is vast, you will need help.
  
  
  The story is amazing, its battlestar galactica meets star wars, meets gothic artwork. The story 
 is done through animated black and white comic photos, and through cutscenes done in game, but 
 this story which I won't spoil from only the opening movie, you will enjoy. Anyway, go experience 
 this for yourself and also there is a lot of backstory because the instruction book is not really 
 INSTRUCTION BOOK IS REALLY A BOOK! its like 300 pages of history on each ship, technology, and 
 100 years before the actually event takes place, this game has massive depth and is amazing.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  the graphics are very empty... in a sense, space is vast and you can honestly 
 feel it with how big the maps are due to the Z axis,, the large vistas and backdrops are nicely 
 done and when you zoom out, the ship gets extremely small even if they are captial class ships, 
 also another thing is how nicely done and detailed each and every ship is for every race and the 
 unique textures for each of them. 
  
  
  SOUND:
  
  the chatter from each and every unit is unique and the same, in the sense of every RTS but each 
 of them report when they are under attack and the songs are unique and heres a tip get the soundtrack 
 its great and calm for some of the levels. Anyways basic RTS sounds but GREAT VOICE ACTING in the 
 cut scenes.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  ok it is hard as hell to find anyone that plays this game anymore but when it did come out, put 
 a few days aside because the fleet battles could become massive and the ability to get free monies 
 over time makes for a great time and a full fleet on fleet attacks.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  in the bigging you learn how to micro task small fighter units, then it grows and grows into fleets 
 and multiple tasks and becomes massive and massive battles, with many explosions and this is where 
 all the hotkeys come into play and the ability to quickly hot swap between fleets and units and 
 the many building and research queries all AT ONCE. The game play is solid, and I found myself 
 taking the time to harvest everything I could because I needed all my resources for my ship building. 
 This game, requires A WHOLE lot of multi tasking and if you aren't good at RTS this game does not 
 forgive for those who don't like it, but if you like RTS games, then you will love this game.
 
  
  
  OVERALL+CLOSING:
  
  this is a rare gem, many people let this game slip past them due to the starcraft reign, but for 
 the many that did take sierra and relics game of greatness have not been disappointed with a RTS 
 rushed game, this game is solid, it has everything you want in a RTS, great multiplayer, great 
 gameplay, vast battles and the great story that each game needs. you will not be disappointed at 
 all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is a sci-fi 3D space strategy game create by Relic Entertainment, which puts you in control 
 of a fleet who is in search of their Homeworld. 
  
  You begin the game by launching a Mothership, this is the heart of your force, this space station 
 allows the player to build and construct a fleet of fighters and other battleships. The mothership 
 is stationary at the only time that she is able to move is when she activates hyperspace and transporting 
 from mission to mission.
  
  You force will get attacked and ambushed by bandits and other forces across the galaxy, this is 
 how the missions usually start and end up being played, as you go across the galaxy, missions also 
 include the offence missions as you go ahead on destroy outposts for a particular purpose.
  
  The game is in full 3D, the first strategy game to do this, everything from the ships, rocks 
 and debris is rendered in full polygons, colour coated with textures. As it's in 3D, you can click 
 on the ships and press F to focus onto that particular ship. This can make controlling a ship or 
 a group of ships easy. The player can also group ships together by selecting a group of them and 
 pressing control and a number, also setting formations and they're attitude towards hostiles from 
 evasive, natural and aggressive is also present in the game and does drastically effect the outcome 
 of battles, as setting evasive mode on fighters to tackle battleships or frigate will be more effective 
 in deciding victories.
  
  The controls are the game is straight forwards as the tutorial teaches the player from camera control 
 and building units and formations. This is very handy for first time players. 
  
  Also interface can be bought up on the bottom of the screen, with buttons ranging from build, research, 
 sensors, hyperspace jump and a message box with the list of objectives are displayed.
  
  The build buttons brings up a screen, allows you to build fighters, frigate, destroyers along with 
 other units, also non combat units such as resource collectors, probes and research ships. All 
 these units every in function and its purposes and really do contribute to the games balance of 
 the gameplay as you can have fighters effective against battleships or destroyers effective against 
 carriers or other capital ships. 
  
  Researching technologies after building a research ship, allow you to grow your force, this technologies 
 will effect which fighters you can build in the game, after a few missions you will have a growing 
 amount of technologies. This will be useful to many of the challenges you will come across in the 
 missions ahead. 
  
  The sensor screens zooms out to a huge overlay, the simple colour coding of Green meaning players 
 units and red enemies units clearly shows what happening in the environment around you, the sensors 
 also senses asteroids for resource collectors and debris of spaceships or other objects in the 
 galaxy
  
  Finally when you complete the mission, hyperspace ship gathers up all the ships and docks them 
 or lines them up preparing them for the next mission, this can take a while, luckily the developers 
 added a 'Quick docking' button, which allows the fleet to automatically dock and jump to the next 
 mission. 
  
  As I mentioned, the units have there fair share of range and abilities, in the build screen, they 
 display how strong their armour is, along with speed. Difference ability types include capturing, 
 cloaked units, special sensors to detect enemy cloaked units along with weaponry such as Ion cannons 
 and missile destroyers. So there a lot to play with and a good opportunity to be creative with 
 the strategies you can employ.
  
  Some of the challenges in the game are more then just beating the other units and winning the war, 
 sometimes you have to deal with environmental hazards, such as radiation, meteors or even enemy 
 scramblers deputing your sensors which varies from mission to mission.
  
  When you start the game, you can select between two 'alien' races which are the Kushan or Taiidan, 
 despite them all having the same stats in the unit types, the difference is the modelling set for 
 each units that makes each race unique. 
  
  The other unplayable forces in the game have their own set of models for units, which make them 
 unique, this makes the world much more in-depth and fresh to what the player will experience in 
 the game.
  
  The player can also select the main and stripe colour of there units in the game, at the beginning, 
 an extra feature to satisfy the players taste in colours.
  
  Multiplayer is also in the game, as those units and options are from in the single player game 
 is transferred in the, allowing you to set up your own deathmatches and space battles, You can 
 set up a limited amount of resources to be used after a certain amount of minutes. 
  
  The graphics are the time were superb, being in full 3D, and the textures are really good, speciality 
 when using the Direct3D mode, as it blends all the textures together make the whole setting make 
 immersive, from the beautiful backgrounds to the ships textures. 
  
  The sounds are great, ship explores, engines, interface buttons, it's all fits in together. The 
 voices on every unit is the same, however they all say something different and unique depending 
 on the situation, nice touch to detail. I was around 10 hours into the game and found unit responding 
 and saying different things.
  
  The cutscenes are great and put together, really cool drawings and presents the whole story well 
 as you play the entire game as you transport from mission to mission. 
  
  There a few problems, some missions take AGES to complete, as much as the battles get epic, some 
 units such as the battleships and destroyers can take ages to drive across from side of the map 
 to the other, also some of the final missions are extremely long. Sometimes the shorter missions 
 leave resources which can be collected and used in the later missions. Sometimes I had to wait 
 until all the resources got collects before moving onto the next mission.
  
  If you enjoy the single player game, the multiplayer will add a lot more value, along with range 
 line of units and experimenting with strategies in the game. Both races do have their own unique 
 units so playing the campaign twice as both races will offer a difference experience.
  
  Other then those minor flaws, the game is epic. All real time strategists should get this game. 
 It in the bargain bins now, it worth investing into, along with the mods being developed and released, 
 there a lot more value after playing this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luketheduke324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  AWSOME GAMEPLAY AND GREAT GRAPHICS FOR 1999!!! IF ANYONE FINDS THIS GAME GET IT! ITS GOT AN INTENSE 
 STORY LINE AND A EPIC TALE OF FIGHTING FOR YOUR HOME. IF YOU WANT MY OPINION ITS BEUTIFUL JUST 
 BEUTIFUL. THE TEXT WONT LET ME SUBMIT UNTIL I GET 100 WORDS IN SO... K SDLFHIOHDFHJF HFH HFH EFH 
 J FHD HFH H FH FF FHK DFDKFH KDH DKF KDK FHFHDFK DKFH DKFHK HKDFHIEHIEHFJ FJ FHE FHEF SEHFEFHISHF 
 HFI IEFHIEFH SFHIEOFH IS FHSIFEOH HFS HFIOH I FOHIOFH HFIH FFIH IOSHFIOEFHS; FH ESIF IEHIF HEIFE 
 I JHFIIFIFEIFE IJIF DFJK HFIZ IO FSID FIOS HFI EO HFIEO HFOS EIOFHEF O FHEIFH IOE FS I DJSFHSU 
 FHSIDFHIOO IO HEIOF HIO EHFO HFIEOF HOE F IOFS FHIO EHIF HO HFSIEFH IOH FEIO HFIEOFH WIFH WEOFHWIOFHO 
 F HFEHFIH FIO HIEHFIEOH FIOHE FEH IOE WHI OFHIO HFH IH IOW HFIOHI H HIHIOW FH HIWHIFHEI HIH WI 
 FHI HWOHFIOWEH FIWE FHWIEOF HOIEHFIOWEF IOWEH OFHWEOHFWIOHFIOOHFIO HFHWF HWE JKFHWEIOF HDISF SIFE 
 FHIEF HIE HFIOW IOWEF HWEIOF HIEWOFH HEWIOHFIE FIEJHF IWEF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killallewoks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Now this little game is possibly the best space strategy game ever. The campaighn is ultimitley 
 the most longest and emersive ever hands down. Now it all starts with you launching your mothership 
 and you going to some ship. However your ambushed and you rum back home to kharak. But as you return 
 the planet is burning and millions are dead. So you go on a epic voyage to find your true homeworld. 
 
  
  Graphics- Purley awsome for 2000 find me a better one and i'll laugh and go er no.
  
  Gameplay- Owns ass with all of it in 3D universe it is purley unique an attack can come from 
 EVREYWHERE!!
  
  Sound- Sets the scene perfectley with hollow ambient music its gorgeous.
  
  Longlivity- With a basic skirmish and a wealth of mods it will suley last a long time
  
 
  So imerse your self in the game that is HOMEWORLD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is a science fiction RTS with 3D styles. The story starts as the race the player picks 
 preps for it's first mission, but first they go through some training, then they go on their first 
 mission to maintain contact with the Khar-Salim, but they fail when they see the ship they're supposed 
 to meet with in a wreck with no survivors. So they head back home, but they see their planet burning 
 up, and get ambushed by the enemy behind this.
  
  What I liked this game is that the 3D effects are insanely cool. Great gameplay. A brilliant story. 
 A very impressive sci-fi feel.
  
  The only thing I didn't like about this game is that the gameplay can be a little slow at times.
 
  
  Overall, this one of the most brilliant science fiction RTS's since Starcraft. The nice 3D effects 
 make it a lot more worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstrum
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  This is the best RTS ever made. want reasons why? ok then let me start...
  
  1. Just remarkable for its time
  If you ever see another 2000 game with a great story, fantastic 
 gameplay and graphics as good as these (for its time) THEN LET ME KNOW :D
  2. Gave birth to a new type of RTS 
  I can't find any RTS that was made in 2000 with just amazing 
 qualities like this one. I mean come on a fully 3-D RTS? i had never seen a 3-D RTS before this 
 one (by 3-D i mean to move in 3 dimensions) and there is also the fact that it could support up 
 to 8 players in muiltiplayer without to much lag.
  3. Epic battles and ships
  I feel so satisfied when my heavy cruisers shred frigates to peices.
  4. An RTS that actually 
 uses strategy instead of superweapon spamming
  there is very little RTS games that use REAL strategy instead of these stupid superweapons.
  
 5. fantastic single player
  I couldn't stop playing single player the story is just so great and it shed a tear to my eye when 
 your planet was destroyed. (i never actually completed the campaign as i couldn't beat a mission)
 
  6. beautiful music
  Some music in the game was really action packed whereas some was really sad and dynamic (like when 
 you see your dead planet *sniff*)
  7. And best of all......
  NO UNIT CAP ON SKIRMISHES OR MUILITPLAYER :D
  I once built a fleet that could see every corner 
 of the map.
  
  And there you have it.... my review of the best game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is one of the very few games that require no description, only experience. I don't know 
 how much time I have spent in playing this game, but I have to say that this game deserves every 
 hour and a half or more that you can spare. The combat system, though very straightforward and 
 simple at times, makes sure that you can focus on the bigger challenges. Graphics are okay, from 
 the point of view of simulated space, and the music makes you feel your victory and defeat like 
 you own it.
  
  What this game has that most others lack is a very engaging storyline. I won't spoil it for anyone, 
 but let's just say that Homeworld and it's sequels mesh together to form tales that all of us will 
 remember for a very long time. I heartily and sincerely suggest this game to all.
  
  Homeworld will remain forever one of those few games that we'll always remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  homeworld is a space strategy game with 3D worlds and the story starts with your race on a barren 
 world who discover a wrecked spaceship and a tablet which shows that the world they live on is 
 not thiers and that they were moved there so they use the technology from the crashed ship to build 
 a spaceship and set off on a journey.... to find home. (sympathetic "aaahhhh")
  
  its not all kittens and cuddles however.
  the graphics by now a day standards are obviously poor, 
 but the gameplay and ideas are nothing you can trump.
  the 3D arenas allow for mind boggling tactics as you think the enemy will come straight after you 
 but you'll usually find yourself fighting a 360 battle.
  and what battles there are! every unit is important, unlike modern games where there is a race 
 to the biggest units, smaller ships can take out ships many times thier size because of one thing..... turret 
 speed. big capital ships cant turn their guns fast enough to catch small nippy corvettes or fighters 
 which is why a middle sized force of corvettes and fighters can take on a force of big ships and 
 win.
  the campaign has depth, twists and good anime cartoon scenes between missions.
  reasources come in the from of matter which are clumps of dust or asteriods which are sucked up 
 and used as RP (or requisition points) to build ships, research new ships, and repair ships.
  multiplayer is very limited but you'll spend so much time in campaign that it doesnt matter, an 
 odd skirmish was the best i needed.
  overall a good solid game despite its age and what i think to be a top 100 game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboybebop990
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best RTS games I have every played. Once you get the hang of it and figure 
 out how to control everything the single player campaign is fantastic. It engulfs straight away 
 at the start. The levels in the campaign are also amazing. They vary from building a fleet and 
 clashing them with an enemy fleet to working out tactics to destroy a ship that will steal your 
 ships if you get to close. Like many RTS games you have a certain ship to do a certain job. I am 
 not a fan of this in many games especially how it usually doesnt apply at all and you can just 
 throw wave after wave and something and no matter what win. This is different it requires you to 
 think ahead but at the same time forces you to think on your feet because before you know it you 
 can have every single enemy in the area bearing down on your Mothership.
  
  The multiplayer is just as fantastic. It still forces you to think on your feet but instead of 
 having a computer you have another person using their tactics against yours. The ships are also 
 incredible you start with little teeny tiny fighters and before too long you have an incredible 
 destroyer taking out everything in its path.
  
  Overall this is a must have game. As long as you have the patience to learn how fight your way 
 to your homeworld and have the patience to wait for the resources to be collected you have an absolutely 
 amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld was a space RTS made back in 2000. It was also the first outing by Relic. You'll probably 
 know Relic best for its Dawn of War and Company of Heroes games. Well, this was the game that got 
 them started big time, and for good reason. It ain't without its letdowns, but Homeworld is still 
 a great looking RTS game that most RTS gamers should play.
  
  In Homeworld's single player campaign, you play as the Hiigarans, a race that is struggling to 
 survive on a desert planet called Kharak. Thanks to the faulty launch of a space satellite, the 
 Hiigarans manage to discover an ancient ship buried in the sand. Within that ship, they discover 
 their true history- and their true Homeworld- Hiigara. So the Hiigarans build themselves a massive 
 Mothership with which to make the journey to Hiigara. But of course- they just have to face aggression 
 on the way- this wouldn't be an RTS without aggression, now would it? They encounter the aggressive 
 Taidani empire, which uses everything in its disposal to stop the Hiigarans from reaching their 
 homworld. Its your job to lead the Mothership through fleet upon fleet of Taidani war vessels, 
 and make it to your home!
  
  The single player campaign is Homeworld is quite lengthy, so it'll take you a while to complete. 
 In all reality, there isn't a very wide variety in mission objectives, but each mission is entertaining 
 since the campaign offers you quite a bit to work with very quickly. Each mission has limited resources 
 for you to use and harvest, but thankfully this isn't a problem since your fleet is persistent 
 throughout the entire campaign, so any ships you build in one mission will be with you in the following 
 missions until they are destroyed. You still have to manage your fleet wisely however if you are 
 to face the taidani and the campaign's other enemy fleets. The only real odd thing about the campaign 
 is that you can chose to play as either the Hiigarans or the Taidani. I'll cover the races of Homeworld 
 below, but the campaign really doesn't change at all which side you play. The sides merely switch 
 as to who's rushing home, and whos the aggressive empire.
  
  When your done with the campaign, you've got a skirmish mode against the AI and multiplayer as 
 well. The AI in Homeworld is satisfactory, especially at higher difficulty levels where its more 
 aggressive, quicker, uses a wider variety of ships, and becomes capable of flanking attacks and 
 hyperspace jumps. A standard skirmish in Homeworld actually tends to be fairly slowly paced with 
 a fairly long build up time before anything starts to get dicey. Of course- you can always rush- 
 which is easily done in Homeworld.
  
  But this brings us to Homeworld's primary weakness- long lasting replay value. There is really 
 only one mode in skirmish gameplay- and that is to destroy the enemy mothership. Then there's the 
 game's two races . In all reality, they use the exact same ships, with only 2 unique ships per 
 side. Its a pity that some of the campaigns more unique races couldn't of been added into Skirmish 
 gameplay. This lack of variety limits Homeworld quite a bit, but it could of been way worse.
  
  Graphically, Homeworld was a beautiful game back in 2000. Its graphics are definitely a little 
 rough for today's standards, but the game's graphics have aged remarkably well. The ships are all 
 extremely detailed, and the damage effects on ships is also effective, both from a gameplay standpoint 
 and visual standpoint (If you zoom into an enemy capital ship, and see flames, you know that it 
 won't be long before it goes boom...) . Sound wise, Homeworld fares just fine. Its music is ultimately 
 underplayed, but effective. And the sounds of battle can be very dramatic when your hearing mass 
 drivers do some rapid fire, and Ion cannon volleys go off. The voice acting is decent, but lacks 
 variety as just about every ship uses the exact same voice clips.
  
  Despite its variety issues, Homeworld is a blast to play all matters considered. The campaign will 
 last most RTS gamers a while, and the skirmish mode is enjoyable, so Homeworld is highly recommendable 
 to just about any RTS gamer.
  
  Pros: Excellent graphics. Wide variety of ship types to use. Enjoyable campaign.
  
  Cons: Pace 
 might be a bit slow for some people. No fleet variety between races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has both good graphs and sound and effects and everything battles are perfect just like 
 the star trek battles or star wars with the Ion Rays and the Photon cannons well the battles are 
 jus great But what I noticed the most in this game is that it has the best story ever made for 
 a game. It is just amazing how the story is showed to you across the game and how original it is 
 , its like the star wars stories I even heard that George Lucas helped the homeworld developers 
 with the story!!. Well I'm not gona a tell it to you because I don't wanna ruin your game, but 
 I can tell you that it is just the best story ever made for any game. About the graphs they are 
 just great the ships the space the station the Mother Ship! and the sound of their weapons its 
 just so real!. Music is great and very space like in my opinion, but the sound of the Ion cannons 
 and the Fighters machineguns are just Impressive. I don't have anything else to say about this 
 outstanding space RTS. Enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bill900
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought the game I was a bit skeptical, as it was the first space RTS I'd ever played, 
 but after a few hours of playing I was immersed in it.
  
  Gameplay- Some games might have had trouble making the ship movement in 3D work, but this game 
 executes it nearly flawlessly.
  
  Graphics- The graphics were incredible, and when I found out how old the game was, I couldn't believe 
 it. The visuals are amazing, especially when you zoom out in the middle of a large battle and see 
 your ships doing battle against a nebula backdrop.
  
  Sound- Perfect. The music is hauntingly empty, yet at the same time beautiful. Perfectly befitting 
 of the space theme. The battle music is well done, it provides an exciting theme without being 
 overwhelming like it can be in some games.
  
  My favorite part of this game was the single player campaign, the story was epic and well presented 
 in the cutscenes and throughout the missions. Furthermore, it was the first game that actually 
 made me feel like I needed to finish the the game and get these people to their rightful home. 
 In short if you want amazing RTS, buy this game. If you want an immersing story, buy this game. 
 If you just wamt a somewhat unique game experience, than by all means buy this game. -Simply Amazing- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shemrom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  took me many tries and at times i even stop playing the game cause i get so mad being stuck at 
 the last level, how ever this is turely the first best space RTS ever came out. love the space 
 combat with simple and easy use controls, even today i still see people playing the multplayer 
 lan. this game was turely game of the year for 1999. hope this game stay with space combat fans 
 for many years even though it been out for 8 years ago.
  now time to play the other homeworld games. if your new to this type of game play then you should 
 play this game first then try the new ones that came out scince then.. PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  I'm coming to this review a tad late.. but as Dad used to say better late than never . Homeworld 
 is falt out, one of the most amazing games I've ever played. It sucks you in and holds you with 
 fierceness I've rarely come across in a computer based game. Installation:
  
  A breeze, I even reloaded it on my lastes XP Rebuild and it installed with nary a hiccup.
  
 
  Sound:
  
  The Sound in this game is excellent . Space is airless and hence no sound. Many of the battles 
 take place with no sound at all. Just flashing rays of light and puff a ship explodes in brilliant 
 techocolor.
  
  SoundTrack:
  
  This Came has simply the best soundtrack I've ever heard. It integrates soooo seamlessly, so perfectly 
 with the game play and the cutscenes it's litterally more than a sum of it parts. The music combined 
 with the narration make this practically as important as gameplay. God Bless Yes for their contributions.
 
  
  GamePlay: Wow, is all I can say. There's interesting and terrifying missions. There's a slow and 
 gentle ramp up in game difficulty... The missions are varied, you rarely do the same thing twice 
 much less over and over. Even though you have to gather resources, it's neither boring nor a pain. 
 Your ability to capture and use other ships is marvelous. There's nothing like stealing an enemy 
 capital ship and using it to augment your forces. By the final battle I was commanding a fleet 
 worthy of Nelson., my name feared throughout the galaxy!!!! Value:
  
  Ye gods man, I can recommend this enough...
  
  Final Word:
  
  Simply the best best RTS 
 game ever and perhaps the best game I've ever played.
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ciberwarman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Who never played don&acute; t knows the origin of the real 3D RTS gameplay... Best game ever made.. After 
 Pac-Man the most revolutionary game ever.. :) I Play this game since 1999, it&acute; s amazing.. 
 The stotyline its the best i ever seen in a game, its super imersive. The details on this game, 
 even in the actaul days can astonish any palyer.. In one word AMAZING.. Play it enjoy it =) PLAY 
 PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY 
 PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY 
 PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY 
 PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY PLAY and PLAY!!! :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix_Waple
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  I first bought Homeworld upon its release in 1999, where the game would barely run on my 233Mhz 
 Pentium, even on minimum settings. While compared to the Graphics of today, the game of course 
 Pales, and bows down to the might of many others, this is nothing in comparison to the rich and 
 beautiful game play that comes along with it, that even now, I stop and admire the beauty of a 
 huge battle of one hundred plus space fleet from fighters to Gigantic Heavy Cruisers. To explain 
 my score of 10 for graphics, I am of course using the model at time of release, where Homeworld 
 was well ahead of the curve, and of course the fact that you can still just watch the battles unfold.
 
  
  I find myself revisiting this game time and time again, after I get fed up with all the hype of 
 new releases, I seem to be magnetically drawn back to the iconic struggle this game depicts. I 
 am still playing this game after 8 years, I own literally 100+ games, and like to think myself 
 as quite knowledgeable when it comes to games, and I can say without doubt, that this is the only 
 game that has been on my machine, and continually played since its release oh so long ago. The 
 only two games which have even come close are Freespace 2 and Half-life, now replaced with its 
 younger brother.
  
  I tried to some up what makes Homeworld great, and the answer is you can't its the whole package. 
 The story is engaging, and you identify with the race you are trying to save, the voice acting 
 for the most part is flawless, the music is amazing, Agnes de&iacute; is the most wonderful, and 
 resonant piece, it makes the game come alive. Everything down to the battle chatter between the 
 various craft is great, and even seems cued to maneuvers and makes the battle unfold like from 
 a game well ahead of its time.
  
  If I had to be hyper critical of the game, then I would say the learning curve is extremely steep, 
 if you have never played a 3D RTS before, the task can be daunting, and you really need to devote 
 a day or two to really get the gameplay down, and you will be able to get fluid with the games 
 controls. This might seem like a big investment, but it is definitely worth it.
  
  Something to bare in mind, the patch that is out is a must, and when you have gotten to grips with 
 everything, and are looking for a new challenge, you can find a copy of the NLIPS removal patch 
 on the net, and try the game with this. Removing NLIPS will return everything to how the game was 
 originally meant to be played. The fighters will now be tiny, and your cruisers huge. You will 
 have little choice, but to use the TADS system they have implemented to help you find everything, 
 as literally the fighters are so small, that you can only see there trails while zoomed out. This 
 makes for a very interesting and realistic take on the game and extends the games life tremendously, 
 as you basically have to start from scratch learning how to play without the scaling trick that 
 the NLIPS used to keep small craft big, as you zoom away.
  
  I can not stress how much this game has changed the genre, and to all extensive purposes, I will 
 play this game for as long as operating systems support it, which I fear with vista wont be much 
 longer, however I wish to pay homage to the big grand daddy of them all, which I do by writing 
 this review. I find it fitting to remember Homeworld, with the imminent release of the new Command 
 and Conquer 3; I find it only right to show Homeworld its place in history. If this game was ever 
 recreated, by RELIC, updated so that a new modern engine was used to show the same game, and the 
 same music/gameplay, they could do no better then this game, but I would certainly be one of the 
 first in line to buy the new release, and I know a lot of people who would feel the same.
  
  To summarise, if you only ever play one complete 3D RTS, I advise it be Homeworld.
  
  Matrix 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Well this is a true hell of a work. Great game great job. Well done. Only thing in this game is 
 it is EXTREMELY HARD. Graphics are awesome. Interface is innovative. It grows on you. Definitely 
 a fun watching your ships fulfilling your orders. Camera angles and view freedom is beyond expectations. 
 It -is- magnificent.
  
  I found myself completely immersed in such a breath taking game, i played, i played like crazy 
 without giving any restroom breaks for hours. Then i found myself just stuck in a mission. I tried 
 and tried. No matter how i strive... I couldnt make it. then i realized i shouldnt have accepted 
 the casualties of my units in previous missions. Also i should have collected all resources available 
 in previous missions now i have insufficient credits and i am disabled completely. there i lost 
 interest in such a promising game, sadly shut my pc off.
  
  Now, what i say is, great game sadly too much scenario oriented. You make a mistake in a mission 
 and it leads to failure three missions later.. irrevocably .
  
  Just if they have loosen the scenario oriented game play a bit, a little more flexibility.. would 
 have been nice. Or of course a difficulty option for more easy takers surely made such players 
 like me happier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is great, it is amazing, it is challenging, it is fun, it is everything you would expect 
 it to be.
  
  The first time I started the tutorial and let my units movei in a real 3D map simply gave me goosebumps 
 all over :)
  
  The game offers a unique aproach to the RTS genre, where you do not re-start every mission with 
 building your base and training your units, instead you proceed with your fleet from one level 
 to another, leaving you with a massive space fleet near the end of the campaign.
  
  The missions in homeworld are very diverse and sometimes very challenging and/or even plain difficult 
 to beat, even in the earl stages of the campaign. Still the game is so fun, and really gets you 
 into it, that you can't stop trying again and again. I am saying this as a gamer who is often discouraged 
 by the difficulty of a game, and often uninstalls when I get bored by trying a mission over and 
 over again, but not with this game, hell no !.
  
  The graphics where vey nice and eye candy back when the game was released, and often it can still 
 compete with the mediocore RTS games that are on todays market.
  
  homeworld was a revolution in RTS for me, and it still is, even with the many nice RTS games coming 
 out today it s unique in it's own way. The game gets you sucked into the universe very quickly 
 and is very nice and coherent as a setting which only does the campaign good.
  
  I am still waiting for a new version of this one, even it is just a re make of the original. Though 
 you can find other space RTS games that tried to follow Homeworld in its footsteps, none can compete, 
 and you should simply get the original because it is worth every penny, and every minute you put 
 into it.
  
  Relic really created a landmark in RTS history with this game , and they still manage to give us 
 quality games that people talk about after all these years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogerwaterz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is a classic. It impossible to argue otherwise. I got this game when it first came out 
 in 1999, and I am still playing it in 2007. It is one of the most imaginative gameplay inovations 
 in all of gaming history. The first three demintional stratagy. Not to mention a plot so epic it 
 makes you get goose bumps. This is the game that got me into gaming.
  
  BTW: Homeworld 2 is also exeptionally good, although if you want to play the best 3d stratagy in 
 existance, pick up the original. Homeworld has exellent gameplay, although one might say the graphics 
 are poor. I think the graphics arent what matters for this game. Homeworld is so much fun, it more 
 than makes up for it. I cant recomend this game enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arian-Caldon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  You find an ancient Star-Ship buried in the sand, a stone etched a galactic map, with a single 
 word: Higaraa: Awesome
  
  Well, not really. Higaraa means Home World, the name of the game. But what an awesome game it is.
 
  
  You are the leader of the race of people known as the Kharak. For four millenniums you have developed 
 from tribes to nations, and now, to a single race. How have you done this?
  
  Though a single goal, reach Higaraa, your Home World. To do this you have built a 29km space craft- 
 no, space city. On its maiden voyage the Mother Ship as it is called is attacked by small carrier 
 of aliens. You rush home to find your desert planet set ablaze and your colonist under attack. 
 You find out that another race has done this to you- the Taiden, what do you do?
  
  Get revenge.
  
  Home World is a game with [for the time period (1999) ] good graphics and strong 
 game play. The Story Mode has 16 levels each with their owns news perils and challenges. Save before 
 you go to HYPERSPACE! If you don't you may find yourself looking into the nose of eight ion frigates 
 with nothing but a scout. Other then that it is a very stern and fun game.
  
  The multilayer mode is fun on-line of off-line. You can arrange your fleets differently, like not 
 building fighters, or building an entire swarm of them. You can change the resource rules to make 
 harvesting a pointless task- or you could make it vital to your very survival.
  
  Home World is a game that, even with its descendants and their graphics could heavily impact today's 
 RTS market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shootermaster12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Well to start things off-buy this game whoever you are! Gameplay is perfect, graphics are good, 
 sound is superb, value is great, and the tilt is also-oh wait for it-perfect. Lets start off with 
 Gameplay. It is a little on the hard side, but is really cool. You can command your fleet and fight 
 the enemys. Graphics are not so great. They are a little pixely up close, but far away, you can't 
 tell the difference between 2000 and 2006. The sound is great, a little wierd music, but it gives 
 you not only the realisticness, but the sound too. And I bought this game for a buck from a friend. 
 I think it would be $9.95 now. So that is O. K. And the originanallyty is very original. So to get 
 the experience of flying in space, you need the expierence of Homeworld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbojangles25
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is a real-time strategy (RTS) game in which you are responsible for a mothership and 
 her fleet of ships. The game offers a tremendous amount of new ideas in terms of gameplay, and 
 while playing it one cant help but think that this game is something other than a typical RTS... and 
 you would be right. Homeworld is one of the most enjoyable and original strategy games to ever 
 grace the PC.
  
  The story behind Homeworld is extremely engaging, and is told through eerie and beautiful black 
 and white animation, narrated by an oppropriately somber voice. Your race of people, who have been 
 fueding for generations in clan warfare, discover a crashed ship in the polar regions of your planet. 
 Upon excavation, they discover things that hint at your origins. What they find in the crashed 
 ship is a hyperdrive, a new technology that allows near-instantaneous travel across long distances. 
 Second, and more importantly, they find a starmap that shows your people's homeworld, and tells 
 of the story of your exile. In short, all clan warfare is put to a stop and the planet unites in 
 an effort to build a mothership capable of transporting your people to the homeworld.
  
  The first mission is actually a combination of a tutorial and an introduction for the enemy to 
 make their appearance. The tutorial is thorough, yet is explains the new concepts of the game clearly. 
 First, and most notivably, is the concept of space: instead of a traditional 2D envrionment, Homeworld 
 gives the player a third vertical dimension to move around in. In addition, research must be done 
 through research ships that have to be built from the mothership. After building some fighters, 
 Homeworld briefs the player on different formations and tactics. With fighters, a claw formation 
 works better, whereas with frigates a wall (if you have 9 ships, then a 3-by-3 wall of ships is 
 formed) is better suited.
  
  After the tutorial, radar picks up hostole units, which turn out to be your ancient enemy, the 
 ones who exiled your people to the desert planet. It turns out that you unknowingly violated an 
 agreement of not building a hyperspace ship, and the enemy now wants to annihilate your people. 
 Your goal is to save the cryogenically-frozen people orbiting in space, and load them onto the 
 mothership. At the completion of the level, you are thrown into hyperspace while the enemy bombards 
 your planet.
  
  Without giving too much more away, the enemy will constantly follow you, trying to wipe out the 
 last remnants of your people on the mothership. Later missions will see you encountering even more 
 enemies, and even an ally or two.
  
  Gameplay of Homeworld is seamless. A traditional RTS view is appropriate for the majority of battles 
 as most encounters are relatively localized, but for long-distance travel Homeworld includes a 
 sensor mode where you can zoom out and view the entire region of space you occupy. This is extremely 
 useful when sounding out long distance probes, or orderng ships to attack that far-off enemy fleet.
 
  
  As with most RTS games, there are resources to collect and units to build. Homeworld is no different, 
 yet even this decades-old act of harvesting materials seems fresh an innovative. By ordering your 
 mothership to build harvesters, you can then mine precious minerals from asteroids and gas from 
 nebulae that are scattered around the battlefield. After harvesting enough material, you can then 
 build your units and conduct research. Spaceships are extremely varied in Homeworld. There are 
 high speed interceptors and slow yet powerful defender fighters to take care of other fighters, 
 and there are bombers that launch torpedos to take care of larger and slower ships. There are also 
 multi-turreted gunboats to help with enemy fighters as well. On the more heavier side, Homeworld 
 offers ion frigates that shoot long bursts of bright lasers to cut the hull of enemy ships, and 
 destroyers that have tradtional guns in addition to ion-beam turrets. There are many more units, 
 all of which are usefull throughout the game.
  
  Visually, Homeworld is a beautiful game. Each new mission offers a new appearence. For example, 
 in one mission your ship is just outside a nebula; you can see this beautiful pink and red cloud 
 in the distance, but the rest of the screen is black, speckled with stars. After teleporting, you 
 find yourself stuck in the nebula. Everything has a pink-red hue to it, and you can really see 
 too far, almost like your stuck in fog. Units are beautiful rendered, and you can see individual 
 turrets tracking their targets. When cannons on your frigates and other ships fire, their is an 
 appropriate amount of recoil as they swing back in their holdings and reload.
  
  The sounds in Homeworld are also top notch. In addition to radio chatter, the sounds of weapons 
 firing are amazing. Traditional cannons have an appropriate kpow! sound, whereas beam weapons really 
 sound like billions of watts of energy are being expelled at once. The narration is top notch, 
 as well; the cutscenes are told through a somewhat somber voice of a man, almost as if youre sitting 
 around the fire, listening to an old Native-American chief tell the story of his people (interestingly 
 enough, this is almost what is happening) .
  
  My only gripe with this game is the difficulty. For turlte players (those who like a slow buildup 
 of an army, with a focus on defense first) this game is very challenging as enemy ships seem to 
 be upon you within minutes of starting a new mission. Furthermore, there seems to be just enough 
 resources to get the job done. I often found myself wanting a few thousand more resource units 
 so I could build just one more fighter squadron or just one more heavy cruiser. In hindsight, however, 
 I see that Homeworld is a true real-time strategy; its not about base building and hording resources, 
 its about using your brain and using what you have built to accomplish the mission. You are the 
 underdog in this game, and while you will go through tough times, you will have a helluva a lot 
 fun doing it!
  
  Buy this game if:
  -You consider yourself anything more than mildly interested in the RTS genre
  -You are getting 
 bored with traditonal RTS games and need a refreshing change.
  
  Avoid this game if:
  -Hmmmm cant really see why you would want to avoid this game... go but it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightchen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  I've only played the single player up to date, but from what I have tasted so far I absolutly love 
 it! It isn't too challenging up till about level 7. I did not like how it didn't tell you all the 
 keys for game play, but it all works out. You don't really need to know the keys, luckily, until 
 about level 5. So it gives you a fair amount of time to learn all you need to get to the next level, 
 and to play around while also still learning how to better your game play. If anyone would like 
 to tell me what the Multi is like, that would be greatly appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrayCat
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I am not one on strategy games. Mostly because I am horrible at them. I played AoE, SimCity, and 
 alot of others and just retired to the fact that I am not good. I bought this on the advice of 
 a friend when it first came out. I simply loved it. The music is outstanding, along with the story 
 and the graphics of the time. 
  
  I just went through some old stuff after moving into a new house and found this game again. I installed 
 and updated it, and it is enjoyable now as it was back then. 
  
  My son asked me about it, so I let him try it out. This day and age of Xbox 360, PS2, and all the 
 great console games he has, I had to kick him off my computer 3 times already. He likes the game 
 that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCgamer4000BC
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 21, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is realy awsome. Though it is a bit hard at times, (I had to look up 
 a faq/walkthrough a couple times) this game has an immotional story. The only downside is you can 
 count pixels when you zoom on ships, but compared to great gameplay that is a nonfactor.
  
  The music gives you the "space is realy, realy big" feel, and is pretty cool. It happens very rarely 
 in a game when you actually want to finnish the game so you can pulvarize the enemy's ships and 
 reclaim yourr home in the immersive story.
  
  Im telling you, if you are a fan of any RTS, check your bagain bin today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsoul
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Don't let my rating of the game deceive you: this game is one of the few that doesn't deserve the 
 middling score that Gamespot's objective reviewing system imposes upon it. I can't give Homeworld 
 high marks for graphics or gameplay... the game was produced in 1999 when the 3D RTS genre was 
 first being innovated, and, honestly, it doesn't shine in comparison to modern standards. My feeling 
 is, though, is that the emotional rewards of the game more than make up for these "shortcomings." 
 Bear in mind that if I could give it a reviewers tilt of 12, I would in a heartbeat.
  
  I'm sure that it's written elsewhere how Homeworld functions as a quality strategy game. I've decided 
 to let those who genuinely appreciate the game for that reason do the talking on that subject; 
 for my part, I don't think the RTS aspects of the game too much to do with the grand level of entertainment 
 that Homeworld delivers. First and foremost, the Homeworld experience is a powerful story. All 
 other facets the game, high quality as they may be, are simply peripheral.
  
  You can tell a good game by the way it actually makes you *feel* the emotions it tries to produce... 
 It's incredible how rare it is for a game to do that. Actually the player is limited in this case 
 to feeling two emotions: awe and fear, but oh, how well they are done. Awe takes you when the mothership 
 undocks, when it jumps into the nebula, when it approaches the ghost ship... Fear hits you like 
 a ton of bricks every course, from the absolutely glorious "OH S***" factor of level two all the 
 way through the game. 
  
  Homeworld does this better than most games on the market, past and present. It's nailed that perfect 
 blend of mysticism and romantic destiny hunting. Either element can ruin a game if overdone (... Homeworld 
 2) , and here the absolute maximum has been achieved without making the game contrived. Homeworld 
 is... a new age videogame epic poem. Think The Odyssey, but in space and with giant spaceships 
 instead of islands. Also, Odysseus is a girl and he's cybernetically bonded himself into a kilometer-long 
 electronic space banana. 
  
  There are control flaws (these have been dealt with in Cataclysm and HW2) , there are glitches, 
 there are poorly designed ships, and resourcing is about the most painful experience you'll find 
 in any game. I admit this freely. I acknowledge, wholeheartedly, any mistakes that you can bring 
 to my attention. I also entirely ignore them. Keep this in mind when you make the purchase: This 
 game is difficult, and not very balanced, and graphically it can't stand up to the newer games... 
 and that's all immaterial. What matters is the emotional titillation you get while playing, and 
 believe me, Homeworld delivers like a clunky, but truly gorgeous epic space sonnet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duraxx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  While in 2006 Homeworld is a bit long-in-the-tooth, the game is still (and especially in its time) 
 an amazing game and a giant and fruitful leap into the unknown. Here is my breakdown, with some 
 randomness to follow. Keep in mind these scores are based on the window of when it came out, and 
 not currently.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  This game takes the RTS genre into true 3D (in space no less) . Not only do you have to worry about 
 the X and Y axis for your ships, but the Z axis (depth) as well. More amazing than the shoe-horning 
 of a excellent RTS into 3D is how simple Relic made the interface. Genius.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Watching two capital ships with fleet in tow pounding each other is a sight to 
 see. This is what people imagined when they thought of an epic Star Wars game. Lens flare and Nebula 
 effects add to the fun.
  
  Sound: 9/10 
  The score is haunting and appropriate, the voice acting is consistant, and the sound of the units 
 are great. Honestly hearing radio chatter is so cool.
  
  Value: 8/10
  The game is a bit short, a bit simple (if you know what you're doing) , linear, and the multiplayer 
 isn't that good. Still it's such a good value, you get a revolutionary RTS game for (in 2000) $50 
 and today (2006) peanuts.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  I had so much fun with this game. When I saw fleet on fleet combat actually happening as I saw 
 it in my head my jaw dropped. If you like RTS games or sci-fi you owe it to yourself to pick up 
 this game.
  
  When I first played this game I couldn't believe my eyes. Here was an epic story, excellent score, 
 and most importantly space ship fleet combat modeled correctly. You had to take into account all 
 3 dimensions of space and use them to your advantage. Maybe you could lure an enemy fleet to follow 
 diversionary squad while your main fleet flanked them from above (KHAN!) . There is of course the 
 requisite RTS elements, you must mine resources (asteroids for ore) , research new technologies, 
 and then use this new tech to build ever advancing ship-lines. One really cool thing is that different 
 ships have different types of weapons (an ion cannon for instance) . Even in the late stages of 
 the game every ship has a purpose because a certain type of weapon (even remedial ones) might be 
 the most effective against a certain type of enemy in a certain situation. Also, your troops all 
 carry over between missions. When you warp out of one board and into another the fleet you amased 
 follows you, and as such you build a strong attatchment to your ships (as it should be) . The down-side 
 to this is that if you make a mistake in one mission, even if you succeed, you may have to restart 
 many missions down the road when you realize you do not have the proper fleet to handle the more 
 difficult situation. The game became extrordinarily easy once I realized a "broken" aspect, the 
 salvage ships. Basically I built large squads of salvage ships and would constantly harass enemy 
 fleets with them. What a salvage ship does is use tractor beams to tug enemy ships to your mothership 
 where it is refitted and becomes usable by you. If you salvage a large % of an enemy fleet you 
 can conserve your resources on tech and have an ever increasing fleet of your own (basically you 
 are destroying one enemy unit and adding one to your fleet, all for free) . If you are running low 
 on cash you can steal a unit and then scrap it. Though it can be hard at first once you master 
 the salvaging technique the game becomes excessively easy. Still this game is terrific, and other 
 than homeworld 2 no game really comes close to modeling epic space fleet vs fleet combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasc00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Wow i played cataclysm first before this game, and let me tell you, there both amazing :) especially 
 for a game made before 2000.......
  
  Gameplay: great great great! i love the controls, and the AI is cool. i love how they implemented 
 the controls for 3d space
  
  Graphics: awesome for 1999, kind of pixalated when you go up close but still awesome
  
  Sound: 
 good sound, amazing music!
  
  Value: Woahoah, worth all your money, and good multiplayer too :)
  
  O yah did i mention the 
 amazing storyline? this should have been made into a movie! 
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!! i know its old but still a classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game looked appealing at first, but when I actually started playing the game, I immediately 
 noticed how complex the game was to play. The movement of the ships was hard to do, the map itself 
 was very confusing to me and I couldnt tell what was on the map, the ships looked too small and 
 I could not really see them. I must admit the graphics themselves were pretty nice to look at, 
 and that helped me to continue playing this game a little longer than I thought I would. The game 
 has a good storyline, the race is on a huge mothership filled with thousands of colonists who are 
 trying to find a new home because their original home was destroyed. And then there are the aliens 
 who are trying to stop them from reaching their home. I have to say that this is a noble cause 
 and a very good plot for this game, but they will have to find their way home with someone else, 
 because the game is way to confusing for me. Overall, good graphics, not so good sound, , the game 
 play sucks but if you can understand this game better than I can, then you should get this game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmcollectorboy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Real time strategy fans have their Warcrafts, Starcrafts, and Age of Empires. Those who want "real" 
 strategy while at the same time enjoying an aesthetically grand experience know better. Not only, 
 in my opinion, is Homeworld superior to Warcraft on a technical level, it's also a revolutionary 
 game that happens to be beautiful emotionally as well as graphically.
  
  When the first Homeworld came out, it changed the face of strategy because there was nothing else 
 like it. Even today, most space combat strategy games have a 3D background but take place on a 
 2D plane. Homeworld is one of those few strategy games to actually have 3D combat, giving it a 
 layer of depth and strategy that most other strategy games could only hope to achieve. Thankfully, 
 Homeworld has a very discreet interface and a great movement and combat system to make waging war 
 on a 3D battlefield a snap. Pressing the movement button sends out a line that you can use to visualize 
 where you can send your ships, while holding down the shift key changes the mouse to give height 
 up or down from the plane. In combat, instead of boxing and clicking like in Warcraft, micromanagement 
 is brought down through the use of formations. This emphasis on formations is on the level of the 
 Total War games, but instead of mandatory formations of the same unit, Homeworld lets you mix and 
 match units and even put in or pull out units on the individual level. The different formations 
 each have different strengths and weaknesses, and you can change your squad's tactics to aggressive, 
 neutral, or defensive. Thankfully, Homeworld also allows you to assign numbers to your fleets to 
 aid you in locating them when you have more than one. And when you're hurting badly, some units 
 you can order to go kamakaze.
  
  The units in Homeworld are numerous and varied, and their designs really help in giving the game 
 its scifi appeal. Both sides are on equal level in terms of units, but each have very different 
 design styles. The fighters are the backbone of your fleets but don't take much damage. The corvettes 
 bring heavy guns to the portability of the fighter package. Then there are the capital ships. The 
 frigates are the poor man's capital ships. Destroyers are the hard hitters. And the heavy cruiser 
 is the Super Star Destroyer of the game -- you won't find too many, but when one shows up, there's 
 basically nothing left standing. Capital ships have to be deployed carefully and also add to this 
 game's strategy. Each capital ship has a different range that its guns can rotate in, and their 
 speeds range from turtle to slug. They also rotate slowly, so if you're facing one way and the 
 enemy is coming in from the side, you don't have any time to make your ships turn to meet the threat. 
 Thankfully, later on in the game you can burn resource points to let your capital ships jump into 
 hyperspace. And the most important unit is the mothership. She's 5 scale kilometers tall and with 
 a bunch of damage points but still not invulnerable. Lose her and lose the game.
  
  Graphically, Homeworld is gorgeous. The ships don't have complex textures, so Homeworld is easy 
 on your system. But even still, the ships look great and realistic in a somewhat colorful way. 
 Space is also beautiful, as it's not just all stars and blackness. You'll see colorful nebula in 
 the background. You'll come across asteroid fields. You'll encounter burned out space stations 
 and different races. But what sets this game apart is how beautiful it is on an emotional level. 
 Not only are the battles reminiscent of some of the most epic Star Wars scenes, but the whole game 
 has a great space opera feel. The game tells the tale of a race of people who have lived on a desert 
 planet for as long as they can remember. Then they discover an ancient stone that suggest their 
 true home is a world far away that's much like earth. They rediscover hyperdrives, bringing on 
 the anger of the ancient enemy that first sent their people to the desert planet. The story unfolds 
 through a series of brilliantly drawn comic book style cut scenes and through the evocative voice 
 acting of the admiral and "Fleet Command", a woman who chose to seal herself away as the central 
 brain of the mothership. Top all this off with haunting and rousing music scored by Yes, and you 
 truly start to get an emotional attachment to the plight of the colonists aboard the mothership 
 as the fleet leaves their burning planet and winds its way across the galaxy towards their true 
 home.
  
  To sum it up in as few words as possible: Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicks85
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This was another one of those games I got but had to put away until I got a computer that could 
 play them. Once I was finally able to play this game though I was amazed. The graphics are awesome 
 and the storyline in the single player is great. It draws you in and you kind of feel bad for the 
 people. Aside from story the gameplay is awesome. It is your typical strategy game but the differences 
 are it is in space so you can move in 3 dimensions and all your ships from the previous mission 
 carry over to the next. This make it interesting because you are way more careful with your units 
 since they have to last you the whole game. The mierals to build new ships are hard to find so 
 you have to rely on keeping everything alive. It is a hard game though because the computer is 
 really smart and you really have to know how to use the 3 dimensional movement otherwise you will 
 get murdered really fast. I recommend buying this game, and it is older now so it should be pretty 
 cheap for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viperRobert
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been a stragety game player is Star Control 1 & 2 and love it. This game Homeworld is a super 
 step into what real 3D gameing is all about.
  The story is great, graphics are top of the line and each step in getting to the Homeworld is tuffer 
 then the last. It requires replay often, an a lot of patience to get to the next level with any 
 ships.
  The music is great. You create your ship colors and ship movment. I recommend this game to all 
 who like a "long term" game play. Your not going to finish this quickly. Also replay value is great. 
 I've played Privateer 1 and 2 along with Jagged Alliance 1 and 2 and this game is the very best 
 this ole gamer has played. Can't wait for Homeworld 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Real time strategy was coming to stand still, same old, same old...
  
  Then along came Homeworld. It has a very compelling sci-fi story, its the first reccomendable 3D 
 strategy game, with amazing, outstandfing graphics, cool sound and memorable soundtrack, the music 
 really helps to create the game's unique universe.
  
  The missions are fun and interesting, research is carefully implemented, and controls are challenging 
 to master, but effective.
  
  Visually the game is outstanding, the models are perfect and effects are superb.
  
  It's hard 
 to describe really, the game has simply a "feel" to it, some kind of beeter-sweetness, almost religious, 
 from the shock of the apocalypse, to the jihad inspiring music themes of some enemies.
  
  Its just a shame that some issues were left unchecked, like the incredibily boring process of gathering 
 resources at the end of a mission (because resources and units carry over between missions) and 
 the almost impossible difficulty of the last missions. But when the dust settles and victory is 
 achieved, the experience will remain in your minds as something memorable and worthy of the time 
 spent playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marine_Of_Light
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Awesome strategymixed with real-time. Great storyline. Tough AI enemies. You have to really thin 
 kto get past some of these missions. Mission 14: Bridge Of Sighs took me a while but i figured 
 out a way to do it. This is an awesome game. That is no joke. No other game thats real-time has 
 come close to beating this one. Its easy to learn the controls and its fun to play. Try this game 
 if you like strategy you will not regret it at all. Like i said it has a great storyline and if 
 you have the booklet that tells about the histories its makes Homeworld that much more interesting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, for a game that came out in 2000, this is awesome. First off, the story line. It is gripping, 
 and revolutionary, with twists at turns. The storyline will keep you playing. Next the gmaeplay 
 is quite simple but may take a while to get the hang of. The ships and ship classes are unique 
 and adds depth to the game. With fighter class ships, capital class, and super capital ship class 
 will change your strategy. The resource mangement is quite simple, but you will find yourself gathering 
 resources time after you completed the mission. The sound and music is phonominal, it add great 
 atmosphere to the game, and the sound effects are great too. An awesome game that marked the turning 
 point for strategy games yet to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Sigh here is another underappreciated game..... This game throws you into the lives of the Karak 
 peoples who have recently invented the technology to pass through space with a hyperdrive system.. 
 When you test your new technology you return home to find your world destroyed by another space-going 
 race known as the Taiidan. They claim you have violated an ancient treaty which prohibites your 
 people from using jump technology. You also find out that your peoples real homeworld was taken 
 by these Taiidan and yoou (as a people) were banished to the desert world of Karak (which is now 
 destroyed) . So you set out on a voyage to hunt them down and reclaim you homeworld. I believe that 
 this game revolutionized the stratagy genre and raised the bar. If you enjoy managing a large number 
 of different class ships with a deep storyline and a nice difficulty this is the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhirlWind69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the likes of Command and Conqeur and the 'Craft series, it is a great pleasure 
 to find a real time strategy game that is able to relax and tell its magnificent story.
  
  Homeworld effective added a fresh spin and visual splendor to both its gameplay and its presentation, 
 which, to me are the two greatest innovations it brings to the genre.
  
  The ability to move freely in space is awesome and the scale of the universe immense. However this 
 freedom does require a new way of thinking as opposed to a traditional real time strategy game, 
 where defense of key map bottlenecks takes strategic precendence.
  
  The battles, however are extremely satisfying the the effects of seeing battleships ablaze and 
 fighters scurring about are reward in itself.
  
  All I could possibly wish for is something like Shogun: Total War, but in space. (I don't know 
 how many will recall a small buy creative pleasure called Ascendancy... But a marriage of the two 
 seems a sweet deal.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahfZilla
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played the demo of Homeworld 2, I knew I had something great on my hands. It felt 
 like nothing I had ever seen before and it looked awesome. That lead me to buy Homeworld: Cataclysm 
 and the original Homeworld since I decided I wanted to start at the beginning, not at the end. 
 
  
  So here I am, reviewing Homeworld.
  
  The story in Homeworld is interesting. You are the Kushans (or the Taiidan, you can choose but 
 both stories are strangely the same. In regard to Homeworld continuity though, the real story is 
 the Kushans) , a species of human beings living on a very harsh planet. Eventually, someone on the 
 planet finds an artifact on which is written "Hiigara, our home", which throws the whole population 
 of the planet in a quest to find the place where they were born, hoping that life would be easier 
 there than on the desert world they're living on currently. So for 60 years they build this huge 
 mothership, and finally, they are ready. Thus starts the game. It's an hollywood movie type story 
 and it is very well told, one of the best parts in the game. It really keeps you moving.
  
  This game was released in May of 2000 and it STILL looks totally amazing, especially at high resolution 
 with 6x Anti-Aliasing. Space battles can be breathtaking, with huge ships exchanging shots and 
 smaller fighters circling in space. It's a sight to behold.
  
  The most interesting thing in this game is the gameplay. It is a strategy game, but in full 3D. 
 Indeed, you never fight on the ground, you're always in space, so you can control your ships on 
 all three planes. This can get pretty darn confusing and does require a lot of practice, but once 
 you get the hang of it it`s a piece of cake really. Moving, that is. Fighting is HARD, with a capital 
 H. Homeworld has to be one of the toughest games i've ever played. They could have included a difficulty 
 level slider or something, this really isn't a game for novice strategy gamers. 
  
  Also, another interesting thing is that you keep your units from one level to the next. Now that 
 might sound totally awesome, and in a way it is, but it adds to the difficulty. After all, in a 
 typical strategy game, if you BARELY pass a mission, it's no big deal right? There is no difference 
 between barely passing a mission or slaughtering it. But in Homeworld, you absolutely need to pass 
 every mission with the least amount of casualties possible, and the game is already hard as hell. 
 That means that you need to redo the same mission over and over before finally going through it, 
 but then after that you need to redo the mission again over and over because you need to pass it 
 with flying colors. This makes the game very long, very hard, and very annoying if you ask me.
 
  
  The voice acting is well done although probably slightly unemotional. I think the only time they 
 show any emotion is when their desert planet Kharak has been destroyed in the second level. I guess 
 that highly trained space military officers don't have a fear of dying or whatever.
  
  No one plays this game on the internet anymore, but it's worth it for the singleplayer alone. The 
 story is great, the game is lengthy because of the difficulty and the carry over system. However, 
 I feel like everyone should try Homeworld at least once, it's that special.
  
  P. S: Homeworld: Cataclysm is the only game in the series to have a difficulty slider, so that probably 
 makes it the best suited game for novice homeworld players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is one of the first strategy games I ever played, and yet, it is still a game I play 
 constantly. When the game came out I knew I had to have it, and proceeded to save for.. well, months 
 (I got $3 a week allowance at the time...) , until I could buy it. Best. Purchase. Ever.
  
  Gameplay: Where to start? Homeworld is a fully 3d strategy game set in space. Each map is truly 
 massive on an epic scale. 
  
  The game has 2 major parts- a single player mode, and a multiplayer mode. Single player focuses 
 on a rather engaging storyline about a race wanting to go back to find their homeworld. Much of 
 the story is told through cut scenes made up of black and white story board type sketches, but 
 this enhances the effect, rather than taking away.
  
  The gameplay in single player is focused around your mothership. If your mothership dies, so do 
 you, game over. It is because of this that you will focus much of your fleet around your mothership 
 at all times in order to protect her. The mothership is rather defenseless on its own, with only 
 light weapons, and so needs constant protection. This adds a unique strategic choice into the game- 
 should you risk an attack, focusing your fleet and attention on the enemy as you attempt to take 
 them out, or should you defend, and slowly wear away at the enemy? Decisions like this are constant 
 throughout the game, and adds an element of surprise and challenge to the game.
  
  There are two races you can play as, but there isn't really much differentiation between the two, 
 as they have almost all the same ships, with a few unique to each side. 
  
  The gameplay is all in space, slugging it out between huge warships and tiny fighters, and can 
 sometimes be overwhelming. Hotkeys enable you to assign your fleet into groups for easier control. 
 The battles in this game are truly massive, and you must be strategic, often the enemy AI focuses 
 on your mothership, and you must have ships on hand to heal it when they attack. A good balance 
 of huge warships and fighters is a must, as if your heavy cruisers are attacked by a group of bombers, 
 they will almost certainly be destoyed, as their turrets don't move fast enough. This balancing 
 issue is awesome, as you have even more options as to how to play the game.
  
  You have research ships in order to open up new options for ships to build, and it is sort of like 
 an arms race as each side builds up better and better ships. 
  
  Multiplayer is also very simple to get into, with tons of user made maps, and huge battles to be 
 fought. It is played out in much the same way.
  
  Graphics: graphically stunning back in 2000 when the game was made, the graphics in this game have 
 stood the test of time fantastically, they still look absolutely gorgeous, and will not fail to 
 please.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack for this game is exceedingly good, some tunes readily come to mind- but remember 
 this is a strategy game, and the music focuses on that. Dark, slow, foreboding tunes in the background 
 echo through your head as you build up your fleet. 
  
  Sound effects are superb, from the screech of the ion cannons to the sound of missiles launching 
 from a destroyer, this game has superb sound quality.
  
  Value: You can easily get this game for 10$ or less now, which is a total steal.
  
  Tilt: This 
 game is truly massive and epic in scope, it is hard to summarize it all into one review. The story 
 is good, the gameplay incredible, and the multiplayer is superb. What else can you ask for from 
 a strategy game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CookieJar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  Homeworld is one of those games that you will remember fondly for the rest of your life. It's great 
 gameplay combined with immersive elements make the game truly outstanding. The campaign is excellent 
 combining great missions with a story that is indeed memorable and well thought out. One cool feature 
 is that your fleet carries over to each mission. This lends itself to creating a more plausible 
 storyline since continuity is maintained. One aggravating part of the game is resource gathering. 
 Once you have beaten the enemies in the mission you really have to stay and gather all the resources 
 available in that level before moving on. This mean that you will sit for a long time waiting to 
 collect resources. Other then that, it is a game that is well worth playing and is belonging to 
 that special class of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProudLarry
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2004 12:44 am PT
Review:  This is a game that truly deserves the title of innovative. When this RTS came out in 1999, the 
 market had been flooded with generic RTS games trying to play off the past success of games like 
 StarCraft and Total Annihilation. 
  
  But then along came Homeworld. A game that was completely unlike anything else that had ever been 
 seen in the genre. It offered a FULL 3D interface, during a time when most strategy games were 
 still being made mostly in 2D, or occasionally, 3D with a fixed perspective. It also had, in my 
 opinion, the best plot and story of any video game ever made before and since. It is truly epic, 
 in every facet of the meaning. The plot was actually began in the game's manual, which explains 
 all of the background to the game. You might think that this is a bit of a cop-out on the developers 
 part, but the story is so interesting, you can't help but read everything there is to read about 
 the events leading up to the game.
  
  All of this, combines to make one the finest gaming experiences ever. The battles between your 
 ships and the AI's are impressive, and never really get old. There are one or two levels that spring 
 to mind that end up being somewhat tedious, but you can go through those fairly quickly and they 
 don't end up detracting from the game at all. 
  
  This is a must-have for any fan of the strategy genre, and should be for anyone who considers themself 
 a "PC gamer." And considering you can now find the game in most bargain bins for $10, there isn't 
 much excuse for not owning and playing this classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2004 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is a really good game, let's get that out of the way right away. But, it's without flaws. 
 The gameplay is awesome, it's really deep and it makes the game really intricate. But, it's not 
 that fun. You're going to find this to be very tedious and not that enjoyable after all is said 
 and done. It's sort of like reading a book for school, like a history book. It's intricate and 
 somewhat interesting, but it's not that fun at all. But the gameplay is really rewarding and it 
 really pays off when you beat a mission. All of the units carry over to the next mission too, so 
 be carefull how you play. If you're interested in it and think it looks fun, give it a try, otherwise 
 you might want to skip out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2004 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Homeworld is a revolutionary space strategy game. This game has become the cornerstone for many 
 of the other space strategy games. Some highlights of the game:
  
  -- Fully 3D environment. This is what sets the game apart from other games. With a fully 3D environment, 
 not only can your ships move on a x and y axis but also on a z axis (up or down) , which opens the 
 door for many strategies in this game. I especially enjoyed this feature in the multiplayer games.
 
  -- In depth storyline. The storyline in this game is great. The plot will keep you wanting more 
 and will make you spend hours on ridding the galaxy of evil forces. Along with the in depth storyline 
 is the between mission movies which really add to the storyline.
  -- The graphics in this game are awesome as you can zoom in on your ships as they swoop in to attack 
 enemy forces. 
  -- Replayability. The game is so good that you will replay the story at the beginning just to relive 
 it again! In addition to this, you can set the difficulty levels for an even more intense experience.
 
  
  In conclusion, Homeworld is a super game for anyone who enjoys real-time gaming. Pick it up now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wytefang
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2003 10:10 pm PT
Review:  One of the top three best computer games that I've ever had the priviledge to play (and that's 
 saying a lot as I've been playing computer games for over 18 years now) . 
  
  The graphics are amazing, the music and sound is fantastic and perfectly suits both the genre and 
 storyline of the game. The interface does take some getting used to but if you take even a few 
 minutes to follow through the tutorial is not hard to master at all.
  
  This game provides tons of strategic depth and the AI is very good without cheating, like so many 
 other RTSs' AI. I love the fact that it's a RTS where strategy actually matters. If you come to 
 a battle with too many single fighters, in a vain attempt to do some kind of pathetic rushing tactic, 
 you'll be shredded if you face the wrong type of opposing craft. Which is as it should be. Combined 
 tactics, as well as knowing when and where and how to use them will carry the day. That's the way 
 a RTS should be.
  
  I saw two other reviews in here, one by Albert something or other and another by a John Hart I 
 think it was, they both CLEARLY were high while trying to play the game as they both totally missed 
 the boat in their remarks. How someone could actually find things to b*tch about in their review 
 of this remarkable game is completely beyond me. Do yourself a favor and just ignore their unfounded 
 opinions and buy this absolutely stellar game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
