-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Horizons: Empire of Istaria
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/horizons/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  5, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 221 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Artifact Ent.
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Dec 8, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unfortunately, Horizons offers little that hasn't already been done -- and done better -- by many other 
 online role-playing games already on the market. 

  Horizons is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game in which you create a character who 
 may then explore a dangerous world, fight monsters to gain experience levels, craft useful items, 
 and socialize with other players. Many other games exactly fit this profile, ranging from more 
 recent games like Final Fantasy XI and Star Wars Galaxies to older ones like EverQuest and Asheron's 
 Call. Unfortunately, Horizons offers little that hasn't already been done -- and done better -- by 
 its many predecessors. The game simply fails to distinguish itself amidst an overabundance of highly 
 similar, more well-established competing products, and it's only really suited for those already 
 addicted to this genre of gaming and looking for a new place for their player guilds to set up 
 shop.  

          In Horizons, you can play as a dragon...     

  Horizons does have a few distinguishing characteristics. You may play as a dragon or as one of 
 eight other fantasy races. Your character may simultaneously belong to an adventuring profession 
 (such as that of the warrior or cleric) and a crafting profession (such as that of the outfitter 
 or blacksmith) , and he or she gains experience separately for these professions. The crafting system 
 is actually rather elaborate, and it's probably the single best aspect of Horizons' gameplay. Later 
 in a character's life, he or she may also learn more esoteric professions, such as those of the 
 monk and the elemental archer. Adventure experience primarily comes from killing monsters, while 
 crafting experience comes from making items. So if you get bored with the adventuring, you can 
 turn to the crafting for a while -- and vice versa.  

  Or, if you get bored with either of your professions, you can readily switch to another, and you 
 can switch as often as you'd like, as opposed to having to create a new character. Dragon characters 
 are the exception, as they are restricted to a single, generic adventure school and a single, generic 
 crafting school. There's little downtime between battles because characters can heal up quickly 
 if they sit tight for a couple of minutes. Additionally, magic-using characters aren't limited 
 by their energy reserves. Each spell has a re-cast time that must elapse before the spell can be 
 used again, but Horizons' casters need not worry about running out of mana in the middle of a fight. 
 Furthermore, characters always have the option to teleport back to their "bind" point (that is, 
 whichever checkpoint they last designated) . Since there will be cases in which you get killed by 
 enemy creatures, get lost out in the wilderness, or even get stuck in the geometry of the game 
 world, this is a useful option to have on hand. The game also sports a clean, attractive, fully 
 customizable interface, including a number of handy provisions for player guilds, like the ability 
 to create event calendars for everyone's reference.  

  The core elements of the game also work well. Crafting is more involved in Horizons than in most 
 such games, though Star Wars Galaxies has already accomplished something similar. Basically, crafting 
 items here involves gathering the raw resources required (often by finding them out in the wilderness) , 
 then converting these raw resources into useable materials, and finally crafting these materials 
 into finished goods. Different types of products require different tools and different machinery, 
 and while the process for crafting any type of item is basically the same as for any other type, 
 it's nice that crafting in Horizons is so hands-on rather than overly abstract as it is in some 
 other games. As you gain levels in crafting, you become more efficient at the processes, thus making 
 it so that fewer numbers of goods are required for each step. Highly experienced crafters may also 
 use special techniques to customize their work. Interestingly, there's even an optional gambling 
 element involved in the crafting, in how you may attempt to use fewer resources for a job at the 
 risk of having the job fail and subsequently losing all of your materials.  

  At any rate, crafting in Horizons is fairly interesting overall. It can even be exciting, such 
 as when you find a deposit of rare minerals out in the wilderness. Of course, it can be difficult 
 to find formulas for any truly useful items, and it can take many long hours to gain the proficiency 
 needed to craft them. There is some incentive for dedicating the time and effort, though. The game's 
 economy is entirely player-run; monsters don't drop much of anything valuable when killed; and 
 nonplayer "consigner" characters sell player-made equipment. This means the best craftsmen can 
 earn some decent profit while benefiting other players with their fine goods.  

          ... which turns out to be less interesting than playing as one of the other, more typical 
 races.     

  Meanwhile, initiating combat is as simple as clicking on an enemy and then toggling on attack mode. 
 Your character will automatically close the distance before attacking his or her foe, or he or 
 she will use ranged weapons if they're equipped. Like in other games of this type, as you gain 
 levels in Horizons you'll gain access to various special abilities, which you can use during battle 
 to further injure or weaken your opponent. Some of these special abilities can also be used to 
 bolster your own powers. The game also incorporates a system of combat stances that seems really 
 tacked-on. Three optional combat stances can be acquired, which are simply called "red," "blue," 
 and "green" (and the default stance is "neutral) . Rock-paper-scissors-style, each is stronger than 
 one but weaker than another. So, for example, if your enemy's gone into green stance, then you 
 should switch to red stance so that you'll do some extra damage. Assuming you have access to the 
 stances, you can switch between them and use your other special abilities at will, but otherwise, 
 combat is just a matter of waiting until either you or the enemy dies. The combat in the game does 
 look pretty good (with the exception of some buggy animations that occasionally cause characters 
 to clip through each other or jitter as though they're having seizures) , and it's paced well. So, 
 for what it's worth, the underlying process of gaining experience from defeating creatures is basically 
 as addictive in Horizons as it is in any such game. The problem is, there's no obvious reward from 
 doing so -- besides more of the same.     

  Like in many other such games, you can acquire a plot of land and can build property on it in Horizons, 
 and, to the game's credit, these features were actually implemented from the get-go. On the other 
 hand, unlike in most other such games, Horizons has no player-versus-player component whatsoever. 
 You can't even duel a friend just to see whose character is stronger. Other online RPGs, such as 
 Dark Age of Camelot or Anarchy Online, which also expect you to invest dozens or even hundreds 
 of hours into building up a respectably powerful character, have enticing player-versus-player 
 elements where you can put that character to good use or you can at least put him or her to the 
 test. But in Horizons, your reward for gaining an experience level tends to be  maybe  one new 
 ability and some more health points so that you can then fight monsters of a slightly higher level -- and 
 then repeat. By the 10th experience level, this process will have already become highly repetitive. 
 Beyond this point, it also becomes rather slow.  

          Combat in Horizons is as straightforward as ever, but the crafting system is relatively 
 intricate.     

  As in other games, you may group with other players to take on greater challenges than you could 
 alone. This allows you to fight more monsters in a faster manner than usual, and you can, of course, 
 type chat messages to pass the time, too. Unfortunately, Horizons' monsters are the same sorts 
 of mindless things that typify this genre, and the combat is straightforward, so there aren't really 
 any tactical benefits to fighting in a group, apart from just having more bodies to deal and soak 
 up damage. Worse yet, there's a seriously limited variety of creatures in the game. Despite the 
 presence of numerous starting towns, you'll invariably end up fighting the same maggots, spiders, 
 flame beetles, and zombies over and over again. You'll eventually graduate to bigger, tougher foes, 
 but the lack of variety in Horizons makes the inherently repetitive nature of the gameplay all 
 the more noticeable. Some nonplayer characters will send you off on quests or will task you with 
 killing some number of some type of creature, and these diversions can help keep you slightly more 
 motivated, if not just busy. However, there really doesn't feel like there's enough content in 
 the game, overall, nor is much of any of it particularly compelling. Don't expect to journey with 
 your allies into deep, dark dungeons or to lay siege to enemy encampments or any other such epic 
 activities. The currency or any special perks you get for solving quests will be much more rewarding 
 than whatever congratulatory text you see onscreen.  

  Death is inevitable in Horizons, as it is in any online RPG. Here, your ability to reincarnate 
 as many times as needed is justified by your character's status as one of Istaria's "gifted." Anyway, 
 the game's penalty for dying is pretty lenient. In fact, there's no penalty at all before you reach 
 10th level other than an unintended trip back to your bind point. Beyond that, dying means you 
 earn yourself a "death point" as well as a temporary penalty to any experience points you earn. 
 Death points can be accumulated, and increase the duration and impact of the experience penalty, 
 but they vanish one at a time in eight-hour increments (whether you're playing or not) . Basically, 
 you need to die often to really feel the sting. If you're used to losing your hard-fought levels 
 in EverQuest, the death penalty in Horizons won't seem nearly as bad.  

          The world of the game is barren and lonely more often than not.     

  Though the ability 
 to play as a dragon is one of the game's most highly touted features, it's really not anything 
 special. In all fairness, no online RPGs to date have done a particularly good job of distinguishing 
 their assorted races beyond their appearances, and Horizons is no exception. Apparently, dragon 
 characters can eventually learn to fly, and they can mature from hatchlings to adults and finally 
 to gigantic, ancient dragons. But, in practice, you're not going to experience anything like that 
 happen for a long, long time, and dragons simply end up as the least interesting of Horizons' races. 
 As mentioned, they are restricted to a single advancement path in both their adventuring and crafting 
 professions. They run around on all fours, they get a decent flame breath attack right from the 
 get-go, they get to throw treasure into an invisible "hoard," and they can't equip any standard 
 weapons or armor, but overall, dragons really aren't that different from all the other races. These 
 other races include humans, elves, dwarves, and gnomes, as well as the only-slightly-less-typical 
 half-giants, fiends (impish looking humanoids) , saris (bipedal cats) , and sslik (bipedal lizards) . 

  If the selection of races seems generic, the world of the game is much more so. Sure, there's a 
 backstory about some encroaching evil, and you'll see pockets of pestilent land and putrid undead 
 lurking around in it as you explore Istaria, but most of the game world is barren and bland. Most 
 towns are nearly cookie-cutter copies of each other, and they have these embarrassingly crude and 
 blatant signs that point you off to things like "monsters" or "non-dragon trainers." The utility 
 of these, as well as of the clearly labeled training and crafting stations in each town, is undeniable, 
 but they certainly aren't conducive to any sort of sense of feeling immersed in a fantastical world. 
 The rest of Horizons' world largely consists of roadways that interconnect hilly expanses, some 
 of which have some wandering monsters in them and some of which don't.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: trollkind
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  This review is for the old Horizons, I haven't revisited it since Virtrium revived it last year 
 but based on my fond memories, I'll probably do so in the next weeks. There's a Good/Bad and conclusion 
 section on the bottom but I encourage you to read on the strong points in depth.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Yes, 
 it's outdated and the servers have been shut down for years now and the constant drama behind the 
 scenes was tiring and you never knew if you could continue playing the next day. Yes, it too was 
 released unfinished and fell flat on a lot of it's ambitious promises but it did deliver on a few 
 and made those count.
  
  
  World Events:
  When I think back I always remember the unique aspects and my and my associates accomplishments, 
 for we made real change happen in that gameworld. Something that is missing in today's MMOs. There 
 were a lot of World Events that demanded player involvement and you could find a bewildered group 
 of players meeting up on a dead expedition and discussing what could have happened, eventually 
 leading to the discovery of caved in Mineshaft that we dug free and rebuild in a two week community 
 effort. There certainly are more exciting gameplay elements than running resources from one part 
 of the world to another for hours and hours but it was bringing the whole server together, there 
 were guards needed to keep the building site safe from attacks, some where even orchestrated by 
 GMs, you needed expert crafters to gather materials and a crew of people that took on the task 
 of moving the resources which felt quite immersive compared to the magic instant mails of WoW. 
 Once we rebuilt the mines and celebrated together we found portals to islands with forces of corruption 
 on the other side. Those again needed some crafter involvement to make protective amulets and then 
 a 12 hour fight against a crystal with the occasional attack from it's minions to keep us awake 
 as we worked on it in shifts. Breaking one of these crystals was one of the most awesome moments 
 in my gaming life and you can still find youtube clips of it. Once we defeated all crystals, we 
 unlocked a whole new player race since we just saved them!
  On another occasion we saved and rebuilt a forest and it's city, again needing a combination of 
 fighters and crafters of all levels. Everybody who wanted to contribute, could if only by rebuilding 
 a bridge or crafting station to make access to resources easier or clear an area so lower level 
 crafters could work unharmed. When I talked to the citizens of the rebuilt city and they seemed 
 to thank me personally for my efforts and their new old home, it brought a tear to my eye, which 
 doesn't happen that often in gaming.
  
  Player Cities:
  Plots ranged from inexpensive small ones that could fit a small house and a bit of garden to huge 
 ones that could house a whole guild with crafting facilities. There were various distinct architectural 
 styles of the different cultures and a lot of decorations with a flexible editor so you could really 
 go to town on the layout of your own little paradise. I loved my little tent with a fireplace and 
 surrounding thick trees and groups of stone. Once you place a building, it has to be built by players 
 but the system behind that was convenient for the crafters and the client alike. Depositing money 
 for certain parts of the build so crafters could earn their share while they travel through the 
 town looking for work.
  These cities also needed protection as they were attacked from time to time by npc general/boss 
 mobs and their gathered armies, once more involving the fighters and crafters alike into the experience. 
 The only downside was that plots were "released" back to the public after a few months of unpaid 
 fee. On the other hand it removes the problem of ghost towns and overpopulation of for example 
 SWG or Ultima Online.
  
  Economy:
  Everything was player crafted. If no blacksmith made the quality of tools you needed, there was 
 no alternative other than picking up the trade yourself and leveling it to be self proficient. 
 Thankfully, even with the small community it had, those occasions were rare and your friendslist 
 grew with the names of trusted workers you know could supply you in a pinch.
  Crafting also allowed you to give items your personal touch. You could add bonus stats like added 
 fire damage to a mace by adding special ingredients and learning the formula. Those ingredients 
 had different rarities and fighters could often pay for crafted gear with a bunch of monster parts 
 the crafter needs. Another mechanic that worked towards catering to both fighters and crafters.
 
  You could also determine the look of the crafted item, for example the shaft and the head of the 
 mace. Higher skill allowed other styles, which was needed because Horizons was plagued with armor 
 tiers that only looked different from the textures of the used materials while the style was the 
 same throughout for example all mail armor.
  
  Dragons:
  Another huge and unique feature that started out unfinished but was pretty great towards the end. 
 It felt considerably different to play a dragon, they had their own society and cities and you 
 could choose from two different directions, either helping the lesser beings for the good of all 
 or working towards enslaving them. Good or evil, just not completely black and white.
  Everything was distinctly different for a dragon, you really felt like a beast, your buildings 
 are oversized and caves, your inventory is different, you wear protective scales you could enchant 
 and craft yourself and in the latest stages even make and decorate your very own cave on special 
 plots for dragons with an original dragon hoard (yes a special hoard system you could for example 
 stash unwanted items to add to it's wealth which in turn gives you some in-game bonus) . Oh and 
 to fit into non dragon buildings, you had a humanoid form which still looked dragonlike and impressive 
 unlike the normal humans of WoW.
  You start out as a whelp, unable to fly but already quite big and menacing, later in the game you 
 could progress to adult and then even ancient. Both stages allowed you to fly and grew you to a 
 much more impressive size. These questlines were epic and often needed the assistance of others, 
 so the dragons themselves were a tightly knit bunch and the welcoming of a new dragon to adulthood 
 was always a little happening. It certainly wasn't just a "ding".
  Oh and all that without making Dragons vastly superior to all the "lesser" races, there was no 
 dragon rush like the SWG Jedis.
  
  Classes and races:
  Races had a lot of interesting choices like bearded dwarven women, humanoid felines, towering half 
 giants and floating fairies er Dryads. There was something for everyone even if the choices were 
 mostly based on the visuals and the feel of the race's society.
  The class system was a rather open model which allowed you to multiclass to your heart's content, 
 only limiting you with mean level which was based on your combined classes but you could play a 
 "class and a half" penalty free. Only a few abilities and feats of one class are available when 
 you play another class, for example my Scout/Cleric was at least able to heal himself while out 
 adventuring and to cast some minor buffs.
  Class balance wasn't quite there though, Berserkers could dish out hefty melee while retaining 
 almost all the power of a second magic class while other combinations didn't really benefit well 
 from each other and rather felt like a hindrance. Nobody really cared that much though, there was 
 no PvP and PvE fights were open to whatever number of people were around and had no enrage timer. 
 If you couldn't bring something down, get more people.
  The only qualms I had was the multiclassing in crafting, you could just max out every single craft 
 given enough time and motivation, which made specialists with less gametime fell, well, less special.
 
  
  Combat:
  I don't remember that much about it and mostly just played as a scout but I will always measure 
 the feel of a ranged physical fighter to the freedom I had as a scout. It's eseentially a WoW hunter 
 without a pet, which isn't too bad because you are really mobile and can kite forever. That way 
 I could bring down enemies that were quite a few levels above me but it also took a long time and 
 I always had to watch my back to not bump into other hostile creatures. So while it was possible 
 it hardly was exploit worthy as drops didn't matter as much unless you were hunting for exotic 
 crafting reagents.
  
  World:
  Diverse Landscape with everything you would expect from a fantasy world. From hostile Swamplands 
 to snowy mountains with Ice Golems to hidden fun areas like a ruined tavern haunted by ghosts and 
 I kid you not, alcohol golems, you haven't lived until you bested the rare champagne golem. :D
 
  There also was the element of corruption which turned the land black and transformed plants into 
 twisted, thorny black Vines and spawned undead and other nasties. Those could be defeated to eventually 
 clear an area of the corruption, if only temporary.
  With no mounts and teleporting only between cities, travelling and planning your route was meaningfull 
 and that's why people invested days oftheir time to rebuild a bridge so they didn't have to run 
 up and back down a whole Fjord. The world is small enough and features an excellent map so this 
 doesn't become a major annoyance and you get some time to admire the nice sky.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  The Good:
  -World altering 
 events in which YOU play a role;
  -Less ego and more community feel through the lack of PvP and mechanics and events that made you 
 group up with others and share your experiences;
  -Crafting playing a big role in every aspect of the game and meshing well with fighting classes 
 without forcing you to go both routes;
  -Playing a dragon was an experience unlike any other race in any other MMO;
  
  The Bad:
  
 -Bland and outdated environment graphics, slow performance and some technical issues;
  -Quests were mostly run of the mill kill tasks or completely lacking for certain level ranges though 
 a few questlines were long and rewarding;
  -Lack of PvP and any "end-game" PvE challenges didn't reward players who reached top levels and 
 alienating a lot of people who were used to the "the game really starts at max level" philosophy 
 of EQ and the like;
  
  In conclusion I would recommend this game to everybody who would love to concentrate on the crafting 
 aspect of an MMO and who enjoy a friendly and mature community where e-peen and leet are unknown 
 words. It's also worth a look for veteran MMO players who feel disenchanted by the number of "same 
 old" gameplay releases and would like to see something different, even if just to know that alternatives 
 are there and what is lacking in the most recent MMOs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ona113
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best mmorpg i've ever played and will continue to entertain me with it's great 
 game play. many people think that this game isn't worth the time but there way off you can lost 
 playing this not saying thats a bad thing. I really like the game because you can play as a dragon 
 thats really cool not many games let you play as a dragon so it's different from many other mmorpgs 
 witch is great i like the different game play there's a lot of lag but ey what other mmorpg dose 
 not have lag. There are many different areas to explore with weird monsters to kill and lots of 
 other players to hunt with or just hang out and chat there's a tone of guilds to join and many 
 of them will help you with quest and other stuff there are many different chat rooms in the game 
 so you can chat with other players no mater where you are 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReijMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  A good friend of mine called me so enthousiastic as i never heared him before. He tolled me he 
 went to a cheap shop that day and bought an amazing online game for just $5! Next day and night 
 he spend all time playing and leveling and then he called his friends.. To discribe it this way 
 its the perfect way to tell about this highly addictive game. I played more MMORP games, and never 
 I found a community so good and players so nice. When I played the game for some months (over 8 
 hour/day) I had the feeling I could completely trust over the half of the players, better even 
 then some in real life. You say thats pure the players, but its more the ambiance of the game to 
 call that kind of players. There are tons of little quests, and each month an ' event'. There is 
 no main quest but even if you feel you have nothing to do there are always some chat-channels where 
 the people talk about in and outgame topix.
  There are around 20 schools (classes) in adventure and around 10 in ' craft' (job/work) and another 
 10 in building.
  'Normal' classes like paladin, ranger, but also some more particular schools like ' spirit disciple'. 
 Thats a monk who uses the power of evil to also cast some spells.
  Beside fighting there is another very big thing to do, CRAFT! 
  around 99% of in-game items are 
 made by people self, you have to level blacksmith to make tools/weapons, fletcher to specialize 
 in staffs/bows. The more trees you cut down, logs you make, boards you make and staffs you make 
 of them, the higher you level becomes and the more forms you can scribe.. You see the point to 
 keep playing this game here :-)
  Beside the crafting of items (weapons/tools/funstuf) there is also work to do on a plot of land 
 you can buy (with ingame gold) . On the plot of land you can make silo's, workshops, storage, or 
 a shop for yourself. Also other things like libraries (to store forms) and gambling dens are currently 
 in the game.
  If you like MMORPGS and you dont want to be stressed 100% of the time and you also want to do other 
 things (like relaxed drinking your tea) underwhile and you still want to be enjoyed a 100% go play 
 this game!
  http://community. istaria. com
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heythurman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I played this upon release after following the game for a VERY long time. It had the best promise 
 of an mmo of any I had ever seen. However, it didn't accomplish what the creaters wanted to because 
 it was release early or they were just full of crap. 
  
  So after quitting in about 2 weeks, I'm here about 2 years later giving it another chance.. why? 
 because its FREE for 15 days. Guess what, I got abck into the game and really enjoyed myself. The 
 combat is alot like everyquest but with way better spell effects and moves for melee. The graphics 
 aren't as bad as the screenshots might make you think. In fact i like them a lot better than new 
 age games because they give it a feal of fantasy and some realism.
  
  All you have to do is find a good group of people to play with, and now that all servers are made 
 into one there are actually a lot of ppl playing even at low lvls. 
  
  Just give it a chance, you can be any class you want at any time, then progress to prestiges classes 
 that kick ass. Also for you crafters (im not one) I've heard its really fun. In fact some ppl dont' 
 even adventure, they just craft.
  
  I could talk all day why you should try it, but the fact is its a really fun, DEEP game. The admins 
 can do a lot in the world on the fly. I'd almost go as far as to say that this game is ahead of 
 its time, and that was part of its downfall. just try it, I'll bet half of you will get addicted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeoh
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  Well i had alot of expectation on this game.
  So i bought the package when it came out.
  I installed it and logged in.
  Graphic was really good at the time. Probabaly it was one of best. 
 
  Well i made character and start to played about 3 hours and i quite the game and never open it 
 again. and i even yelled at my friend cause it mention the game.
  First i really really really hated look of everything. I felt like i have to kill the pc and npcs 
 because they are just ugly and monstous as mobs.
  Second.. dont know why but it was simply boring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  I played several MMORPG and many more MMO games and i have only in this game calm and peacufull 
 satisfaction, other MMOG are stressing and frustrating but in this game music and athmosphere is 
 something that you must feel .Who are not for tensed action in RPG games which should be for enjoying 
 not frustrating emotions. Crafting is the best in this game from all others in that cause players 
 who are trying action should be try elsewhere.
  this game for older gamers who are not in hurry.
  You can be Dragon or Human like races everyone 
 have something that other can't be like dragons and humans have completely differrent schools and 
 guilds from the same beginning.
  you can help other to improve skills by unite and craft for them for free. that is it from me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkultra242
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2004 2:18 am PT
Review:  Artifact Entertainment has created a firm image in my mind of the little engine who could, if he 
 knew how to run a business. After installing what looked like a potentially entertaining game, 
 I quickly started my account. My fingers raced across the number pad, striking each key with the 
 zeal that you get when you're almost to your destination after a three day road trip. It didn't 
 take long to register, which was the highlight of my experience with Horizons: Empire of Istaria. 
 In fact, it was the extent of my experience with the game. It seems that in order to log into the 
 game, you must access their servers via website. No fancy introduction or character creation process, 
 just a website. Even Ultima Online was beyond this, and that was how long ago? Well, as it turns 
 out, Mozilla Firefox isn't good enough for this website. It has to be Internet Explorer. Netscape 
 isn't even an acceptable alternative. I'd almost expect Artifact Entertainment to be in some sort 
 of conspiracy with Microsoft, but they'd need some business sense for that. Due to some malfunction 
 with Internet Explorer on this website (and this website only, as I've never had problems with 
 any other site) , I was unable to log in to create a character. I tried everything I could think 
 of. Cookies cleared. Temporary Internet files deleted. Lowered my security levels. Disabled the 
 firewall. Checked for updates to Internet Explorer. None of the tried and true solutions seemed 
 to work so I went for the last ditch effort - Tech support.
  Now I'm not one to complain (unless I'm really upset) , but after filing my case with their Customer 
 Service I waited for two days for a response. I figured that after waiting this long for a response, 
 this should really do the trick. The response I had waited two days for... Clear your temporary 
 internet files. Having already done these things, I realized that this customer service wasn't 
 going to help. I replied stating that I had done this, and asked how I could receive a refund for 
 my purchase, as we all know that most retailers don't accept open software returns. Instead of 
 trying to help, this Customer Service representative replies with "Any refund would have to be 
 taken up with the retailer from which you purchased the game. You may cancel your account if you 
 wish by logging into I-Bill's website at www. ibillcs. com." Excellent. This was the help I'd been 
 waiting for. If there's one thing I really can't stand it's customer service that doesn't care.
 
  If I were to make a recommendation to someone in the market for a MMORPG, I'd definitely recommend 
 anything but this, based solely upon my poor experience with their customer service. In a day and 
 age in which there are countless options for computer entertainment the company that cares about 
 its customers is the company that will get my money. Astounding customer service has done wonders 
 for Alienware. More companies should try following their example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askewzero
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 20, 2004 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I thought the crafting system in Horizon's was outstanding. The combat is just like many other 
 games, but the world looks so nice, and there is a lot of content. Loads of things to do and see...
 
  
  BUT you will be hard pressed to find anyone to do it with. The server population rating is not 
 done by giving you an exact number of people online, but they do say very light, light, etc. I 
 can't tell you what the next step up is, because the population rarely got above "very light". 
 When you are playing you just don't see many other people to adventure with, and that is what an 
 MMO is all about. There is not exactly an immense audience for MMOs, so if you decide to take on 
 the monumental task of competing for that niche against games like EverQuest, EverQuest 2, World 
 of Warcraft, Dark Age of Camelot, or City of Heros, you've got some disappointing times ahead. 
 You better have an interesting whole package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 10, 2004 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I decided to give the 7-day free trial a shot and here's what I found.
  
  First off, you'll need to know what I'm running because it's related to this review. P4 3.0 Hyperthreading, 
 1GB RAM, Radeon 9700 Pro 128MB, Serial ATA HD.
  
  The graphics are quite stunning, in fact Horizons has one of the best skys I've seen in an MMO. 
 It also comes across as looking a lot like WOW. However, walk into town and watch your system choke. 
 I literally mean choke to death. I was running it in 1600x1200 with graphics cranked up and I had 
 to minimize everything to recover from what appeared to be a 'you're going down buddy' crash. For 
 an on-line MMO, one of the worst I've seen for performance to date when you get into heavily populated 
 areas with buildings, lighting, etc. It's even worse than Lineage 2, which is god awful when you 
 get into areas with lots of players. Frame rate - 1.2 frames per second. Need I say more.
  
  Secondly, there are hardly any players. I felt all alone in what appeared to be a fair size 
 world. I did a search on elves (my race) and found only 45 or so of us on the entire map. Based 
 on what I saw in the 10 or so towns I visited, that sounded about right. I asked around as to where 
 the population was, but there really didn't seem to be a lot of players on-line.
  
  Combat was interesting and crafting system looked extensive, but I gave up after my system choked 
 a few times.
  
  On a positive note, the interface is one of the best I've come across for an MMO. You can pick 
 it up in a very short period of time.
  
  I can't recommend this to anyone because like Lineage 2, it dies when you get into populated areas 
 and there really doesn't appear to be many players. The most I ever saw at a given time was about 
 five or so. On top of that, if you want to turn up your settings, forget it. It simply cannot run 
 in 1600x1200, unless you turn everything off.
  
  Two thumbs down on this one - probably why they are giving away these 7 day trials. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2004 8:37 am PT
Review:  I will be the first to admit that there were bugs and lag bad when this game first started but 
 truthfully most of those have been squashed. I have not had any issues with lag, crashes or bugs 
 in quite some time. My main character is a Dragon at lvl 36 adventurer / 40 crafter. He just completed 
 the Rite of Passage so has become and adult and gain the ability to fly. Playing as a hatchling 
 is hard (it is supposed to be) but is well worth it if you are willing to work at it till adulthood. 
 I also play a Halfgiant Paladin/Mason and a gnome mage/alchemist. There is a great deal of variety 
 in crafting and mobs. If you looked at it early on give it another chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephyr
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2004 3:25 pm PT
Review:  If you have played many MMORPGs then the addictiveness of said games is probably gone. Personally 
 I have played around 8 MMORPGs, which most MMORPG gamers have probably heard of.
  
  As far as Horizons goes, it's a mediocre game. I would say that it's on the same level as every 
 other MMORPG that's out there right now. The one problem that may seperate it from a few of the 
 others is that you can't really get submerged in the game. You can read Greg Kasavin's review for 
 details about that. If you do read his, then keep this in mind: Many of the problems that Horizons 
 sufferes from are in ALL of the other MMORPGs.
  
  Really what I'm getting at is if you want to play an MMORPG, Horizons isn't as bad as Kasavin's 
 review makes it seem, when compaired to other MMORPGs that is. Play Horizons if you want a good 
 crafting system and if you have played most of the other MMORPGs out right now. Otherwise, like 
 others have said: Wait until something actually different comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilOTheWisp
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 29, 2004 12:16 am PT
Review:  Overall I found Horizons to be quite boring. The initial excitement of an extremely well done crafting 
 system soon turns to boredom due to excessive repetition, which has become the main theme of so 
 many online games these days. 
  
  I am leaving out comments on lag and bugs since these are common issues and the devs at Artifact 
 are doing a good job taking care of these issues. The game is finally in a playable state for those 
 with a DSL or Broadband Cable connection and lag is becoming a haunting of the past.
  
  If you have a monster of a system with a high end video card the graphics are actually quite nice. 
 Many seem to be saying the graphics are not that great but unless you are running an updated machine 
 you will not truly get a sense of how beautiful the game world can be when you explore it.
  
  The sound is the best I have experienced in ANY game ever. I cannot say enough good things 
 about the soundtrack.
  
  Hunting is where I feel the game is severely lacking and is responsible for the mediocre score 
 I give the game. The game world is quite empty. There is a severe lack of creatures on the landscape. 
 You can start a timer and literally run for 30 minutes in some cases and not come across ANYTHING. 
 In some areas, if you come across a creature, it is the same creature over and over but with level 
 variations. I do wish to state I did not hunt to a very high level. The higher level people I talk 
 with seem to be having some more fun as they get more special abilities during combat. However, 
 the lack of variety is the same for higher levels so you had best get used to what you choose to 
 hunt.
  
  If you enjoy solo hunting and do not mind much creature variation, then you might have a lot more 
 fun then I did. There is little to no reason to ever join a group to hunt and consequently, you 
 won't find yourself in any town and have people trying to even form a group. There is also no experience 
 benefit to hunt in groups so bottom line, pretty much no one groups at this point. If you enjoy 
 hunting with your guild you will have to find someone who will feel punished sharing experience 
 with you. Especially if you are much higher level.
  
  Crafting is the strongest point of Horizons and I am willing to bet if polled, most are crafting 
 vs. hunting and hoping hunting gets better later. I have to admit, initially, I was ranting and 
 raving how good crafting is to all my friends. It is thoroughly enjoyable and relaxing after a 
 hard day at work. 
  
  However, once again, after thoroughly learning your school of craft it becomes tedious and boring. 
 After 100 hours of crafting, you might not feel using your pick axe on a copper/ore or silver node 
 very exciting anymore. It gets to the point where there is no point in leveling. The higher level 
 you craft, the more rare and difficult the resource is to find. For those who enjoy adventuring, 
 this might be fun to you. Higher level crafting means needing the proper time to find that resource 
 which might mean 45 minutes of your time looking for it. It comes down to what you might think 
 is fun based on your crafting experience in prior games. Will it get old to your personality type?
 
  
  Overall, Horizons feels like every other online game that has come out the last 5+ years and doesn't 
 offer much to really keep my attention. I haven't seen anything overall unique other than the crafting 
 being more in depth than ever before. I will be checking out any of the number of big name online 
 games coming out throughout 2004 instead and saving my $12.95 per month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MerrickBFox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2004 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Not the greatest graphics, not the best sound, but the most promise. Promises are not in game yet, 
 but coming. We are staring to see things they promised which leads me to rekindle my belief that 
 Horzions will be one of the best RPG's on the market, if they can survive the bad press, bugs, 
 and lag. Once the bugs are ironed our and everything promised is in, this game will be just too 
 damned cool unless lag persists to be a problem, but it is getting better. I play very often and 
 find that I'm never bored as I have many options to me and the events held are interesting. I hope 
 to see this game blossom into what I know it can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 7, 2004 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game is not very good. Coming from EQ and DAOC and others, this game is very shallow. Crafting 
 is about all there is to do, many features, have not been included, it is a terrible engine that 
 runs sluggish and seems unfinished, the interface is ok, but nothing that isnt better in EQ. Many 
 people giving this game high ratings are cast offs from other less superios games such as Asherons 
 Call 2 or DAOC  Put your money in Everquest, its still the best game out there and with instanced 
 missions now EQ is really tough to beat for fun. Horizons is a boring, slow game designed for people 
 that cant hang in a real game. Mine is off to EBAY, and you might as well wait for EQ 2 or Worlds 
 of Warcraft before you jump on the hype bandwagon again.
  
  This game is very buggy, and boring. The fanboys will tell you its a breath of fresh air to log 
 in and have no content, but I disagree. Everything you can do in here you can do in EQ and with 
 tons more content. Except play a dragon. And that is pure cosmetics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjohnson
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 5, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short: I don't disagree with the official Horizons review. But this doesn't mean you 
 won't enjoy the game. I've come off of AC, which gameplay-wise has a polish this game doesn't even 
 come close to at the moment. I would give it time though -- most MMORPGs don't start off shining 
 like a new car, and Horizons has dozens of rough edges, bugs, and things to work out at the moment.
 
  
  Still, you should give it a try... after a short period of time. They do need to add content and 
 things they've promised into the game before I'd recommend it. I am having a load of fun playing 
 the game, despite its apparent blandness, and I think other seasoned MMORPG players would find 
 this possibly engaging as well, but you won't know until you try it yourself. If you're willing 
 to pony up the $50 for the game and a free month, I can guarantee you'll have a pretty solid opinion 
 by the end of that.
  
  Gameplay: Your typical combat. Some interesting specials. Fun, but not mind-blowing.
  Graphics: 
 Very nice... but bad pop-in, some jaggies, and it basically requires more resources than it should. 
 I'd like rain or snow too... please...
  Sound: Alright. I'm glad the music has a toggle. It doesn't have as many enviromental sounds as 
 I would like.
  Value: You'll get a ton of gameplay out of it... as you would any MMORPG. Just don't forget, you're 
 paying $13 a month for that.
  Tilt: I'm giving this only a 5 because AE needs to deliver on their promises of content. If they 
 mostly do, this game will be considerably more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyzz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2003 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Gamespot review so please be patient with me.
  
  I have played EQ (with many expansion packs) but wasnt a high level heavy player. I also played 
 Final Fantasy XI Online (FFXI) . Both were good games. FFXI just recently released has awesome graphics 
 I thought it was a great looking game. But I was never a big Final Fantasy person so the characters 
 were strange looking and the monsters were bizarre to me. I like the traditional D&D world of elves, 
 dwarves, etc. EQ is well EQ. It is the online RPG that all others are measured against. And I have 
 to say I like it better than EQ for a few reasons. The big one is the crafting in Horizons. It 
 is so deep and complex. The player economy is cool. I actually made a few items and put them up 
 for sale at the consigner. Then shortly I got a note saying a person purchased my item. Way cool. 
 Music is awesome and graphics are good. I was hoping for more but its still nice. The only gripe 
 I have so far is the game isnt 100% smooth and debugged. I do enter heavily populated areas and 
 sometimes see characters in solid grey as the system is waiting for more info from the game servers. 
 I have a decent machine 2.4 Ghz 512 mb ram with cable modem connection. So otherwise its awesome 
 game.
  
  I hope you try it, you wont be disappointed.
  
  Oh and if you go onto the Dawn server stop bye and say hi to me (Chriton) . I would love to show 
 my ware of spells for sale.
  
  Enjoy,
  John
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2003 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is an extremely enjoyable game, and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys MMORPGs. 
 The graphics are good, the gameplay is solid and the overall expierence of playing this game is 
 very pleasant. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Very nice gameplay in this game. There is a diverse set of classes which can be played and a very 
 nice set of skills. Beyond that though, there are several things that really shine in terms of 
 gameplay. Dragons. You can be a Dragon. Although it is very difficult to become an adult dragon, 
 and hence one that is able to fly... it is still very "cool" to be a dragon player character. The 
 part which stands out the most however is definetly the crafting system. Crafting is quite simply 
 outstanding and a unique expierence due to several factors (including harvesting ALL of your own 
 resoureces.. so cool) . 
  
  Graphics:
  I would say that my computer rig is very nice and the graphics card is a 128mb ATI Radeon.. so 
 my graphics are pretty enhanced. But at least on my computer the graphics are outstanding.. absolutely 
 gorgeous. It doesn't get much better in terms of graphics for MMORPGs. I can't really compare it 
 to many games that I personally have played in terms of graphics (at least MMORPGs) . 
  
  Sound:
  Great sound, the sound effects aren't the greatest. But the music more than makes up 
 for it.
  
  Value: 
  I think that the monthly fee involved is just fine. The amount of content is staggering.
  
 
  Overall:
  9 outta 10 stars. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJSANDMAN
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 18, 2003 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Horizons seemed like the dawn of a new era in online games, yet disapoints so much in it's current 
 state. The game still seems to be in beta as when you finally manage to get in the game your greated 
 with a grey screen behind your char as everything loads, and then as you look into the distance 
 you basicly see the same thing until the distant objects come closer. Frame rate is a pain even 
 on a high end system, the website used to sign up and manage accounts was unbearably slow when 
 it first opened and has barely improved since. I have only been playing for about a week and have 
 killed as many as one creature and that was only as part of the training corse to become a warrior. 
 The sound does get high ratings because that seems to be the most complete aspect of the game. 
 Finally the billing system is the last thing I shall rant about. Horizons unlike all other MMORPGs 
 that I have played do not have their own billing system, they use ibill. Perhaps this is the reason 
 the rate for the monthly subscription which is currently 12.95 is listed no where in any promo 
 material or on websites or even on the gamebox itself. Also in order to cancel you have to initially 
 call the 1-800 number on the cancelation page and speak to one ibill rep and be transfered to another 
 and then give your credit card number since that is what ibill uses to locate your account. I'll 
 look into the game over the next month while I have my free 30 days but until this game shows me 
 something I'll consider it a waste of $50.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChupaThingy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 17, 2003 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review at GameSpot, so bear with me.
  
  Gameplay -- There is no PvP in Horizons, the adventuring PvE is a little weak, and loot drops/dungeons 
 appear to be nonexistant, so if you're looking for the next great DAoC with regards to these attributes, 
 look elsewhere. However, the crafting system in this game is phenomenally deep, very polished, 
 and is truly the heart of the game. This blows out of the water every other crafting system currently 
 out there ... I'm having fun CHOPPING DOWN A TREE for cryin' out loud! The player-based economy, 
 buildable housing, and a few quests factored in from the beginning improve this score, but the 
 combat area is still somewhat weak -- 7 overall.
  
  Graphics -- A 1337 gaming rig is NOT an Athlon 1700+ and a GF3, despite what people on message 
 boards will tell you. I'm running an XP2800+ with Radeon 9800Pro AIW and a Gig of RAM, and the 
 game looks absolutely GORGEOUS. The environments are very detailed, with a very distinct look and 
 feel to every city and major area within the game. The player models, aside from the dragon, however, 
 look very weak and out-of-place within this context. If the player models were on par with the 
 environmental graphics, this would be the best-looking MMORPG out there currently -- 9 overall.
 
  
  Sound -- While the sound effects are a little lacking, the music more than makes up for them. The 
 music in this game is absolutely fantastic, lending to each area a truly unique setting just based 
 off of the music. The dynamic fading between "adventuring" music and "combat" music is the best 
 I've heard since Serious Sam. I would easily spend $20 to get a CD of this music! -- 10 overall.
 
  
  Value -- So far, a lot of promised content is missing and/or not filled in yet. The developers 
 *have* slowly been adding content through server-side patches, and it's understandable that they're 
 working out more important issues with regards to server availability, but as of yet, it's hard 
 for me to seriously recommend this game at $50 + $12.95/month ... I'm truly hoping that huge amounts 
 of content will be available (here's to a 100MB patch!) -- 7 overall.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt -- This is my first true foray into a MMORPG. I've played UO, EQ, AO, and DAoC 
 at friend's houses, but they didn't "suck me in" within the first few hours of playing. The Realm, 
 an older MMORPG by Sierra (now by Codemasters) , was a cartoonish pseudo-3D game that sucked up 
 a good portion of my free time. Horizons is looking to do the same, provided that they can get 
 some content released and fix the major issues with regards to server availability. I'm looking 
 forward to what this game promises -- 9 overall.
  
  Total Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Straegen
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2003 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Despite the initial bugs that all launches seem to suffer. There is a solid game here. Login bugs 
 and servers going down seem to be high, but the stability of the game while in the game is better 
 than any before it and better than most that are out there now. As for game play... very similar 
 to other online games with several twists. Can play a dragon and hoard treasure, excellent housing 
 system day one, working player driver economy, excellent combat system (not too slow not too fast) , 
 crafting system second to none, some really nice eye candy (different areas in the game look radically 
 different and feel different) , and they managed to get solo and multiplay balanced in the same 
 game. If you want PvP, stay away. If you want a fresh start in a good MMO, give it a try. Cons: 
 50 bucks? Should have been 30. No PvP and no plans for it. Some pretty annoying login bugs. Some 
 slow load times when portaling places. Overall graphics could have been better. If the character/monster 
 graphics equaled the environment graphics, it would be the most stunning MMOG out there. Last but 
 not least... DOCUMENTATION! This game has a lot of depth. It would be nice to get a useful run 
 down of races, classes, and other game info. As it is you get a few sparse pages that are an overview 
 at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seriphinx
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 14, 2003 3:56 pm PT
Review:  There really is nothing new here, other than playing as a dragon for a race.. But I have a problem 
 with that cause it seems they were so hyped up about being dragons that they went cheap on the 
 other models graphically speaking. I mean, they look OKbut if you like to play and look cool doing 
 it, stick to Everquest, or DaoC if those are the ones you already play.
  
  The sound is decent, nothing that reaches out and surprises you or anything, but its there so thats 
 fair enough I suppose. 
  
  The music is actually pretty darn good, kudos on the soundtrack.
  
  Now to the main issues
 
  The terrain is decent, nothing that makes me think its better than anything already out, in fact, 
 in my opinion it isnt better than anything already out, except for Everquest which shows its age 
 every time you look at the ground, but comparing to Anarchy or DaoC, everything is pretty much 
 equal with all the options turned up.
  
  Gameplay wise, crafting is indeed the emphasis here. If you like crafting, and lots of it, this 
 one takes the title away from DaoC or Ultima. With that being said, even though there are some 
 regions where everything is in reach, sometimes it just takes too long to make things. Im not a 
 powergamer dont get me wrong, but when its a routine of : do this just to make this just to do 
 this just to make this just to get a tiny piece that you REALLY need?? Indeed its a deep system 
 but every now and then guys, Id like to speed the process up a little, especially if I am pressed 
 for time. So for that purpose alone, I would still rather do UOs or DaoCs crafting. Not all of 
 us have 4 hours to make about 10 things just for a quest yielding 100 copper even if money is balanced 
 differently there. Now that might be right up someones alley, just not mine. It IS FUN, just not 
 practical for me.
  
  The graphics on this game are ok, animations and character models are on par but nothing that takes 
 my breath away. As I said before, the humans and some of the other races look somewhat generic 
 compared to other games that seem to have their own originality them with the exception being the 
 cat race, those actually look a little sleaker that EQ's Vah Shir race. 
  
  It has already been mentioned by others, but there does seem to be a problem with how things load 
 on the game. Sometimes I am put into the world before the world seems ready to have me, trees with 
 no ground for example, and waiting on PCs that run by to have their actual armor on or waiting 
 for NPCs to actually pop where they are suppose to stand takes away from the whole "immersed in 
 another world" feel. Im glad it wasnt just me, I have a decent system and decent graphics card 
 along with decent cable connection, so Im not going to listen to any it could be you arguments 
 when I can easily point out the other rpgs that load and look much better without any problems.
 
  
  Lastly, I like a game thats easy to make an account and also easy to CANCEL one also. I mean if 
 the customer service end of a game like creating and canceling is in checkHECK.. I might be so 
 inclined to re-establish my accounts and play again sometime down the road if I get bored. This 
 is the first game I have seen where, in order to cancel, you have to actually call up their customer 
 service department to talk to someone first.. Its True! Its True! Not so much a big deal I guess, 
 but why not do it the way every other game does? AUTOMATICALLY! LOL If you dont believe me for 
 those that play, pretend like your going to cancel on the web page and see what it tells you. :-)
 
  
  All in all, this game could be awesome if it had some things redone and corrected, and like any 
 onliner, I am sure patches will fly out fixing some of these, but for now, Ill pass and save 
 some money.
  
  Bottom line: If your already playing another mainstream game: i. e. Everquest or DaoC or FFXI for 
 that matter, just stick to it for now. I wouldnt look for anything to put my trust or money in 
 until EQ2 came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesySnax
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 14, 2003 1:23 am PT
Review:  This game is off to a rocky start so far, but it has the possibility to be a great game.
  
  Let me start by saying that Horizons does not intend to be a ground breaking game. This is your 
 standard Dwarves, Elves, Dragons and Level 2 Beetles game.
  
  First off, the graphics. The graphics aren't great, but the combat animations are very well done. 
 After playing 2 years of EverQuest, these animations are incredible. Your fighter will jump and 
 dodge as he evades and attacks.
  
  Most of the character models are a little... well, ugly. I didn't find any of them very visually 
 stunning. The Post Luclin models in EverQuest look better than the ones in Horizons.
  
  The environments are very well done. If you visit one of the "Lava" areas you'll know what I mean! 
 The area gives off a fiery glow, making it feel warm and alive.
  
  The sound is very good for a MMORPG. It is not dull or muffled, as it is in many other games. Some 
 of the music is very well done and is of much better quality than any other MMORPG I have played.
 
  
  I do, however, have a few problems with the game.
  
  First off, there is no launch program. The game is launched from their website, which most people 
 will say could be worse, but to me it feels like a lack of effort on their part.
  
  Also, if you do not have a VERY good computer you will run into problems with NPCs and PCs not 
 loading until you wait a minute or two. I could not find a NPC I was looking for because she would 
 not load.
  
  This game could be a very good game if they can hammer out some of the problems. A launch program 
 would be great, for one thing.
  
  I cannot really recommend this game to anyone for money. If they release a trial version, sure, 
 pick it up and try it out. But for 49 dollars? Nope, stick with EverQuest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolphindede
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 13, 2003 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Read this before you buy the game. There is some potential here, but it hasn't been optimized and 
 don't let anyone tell you this game isn't having its share of problems-because it certainly is. 
 
  
  Issues: Game crashes frequently on updated, new computer. Log-in times are the worst I have experienced 
 and logging in is frequently not possible because the servers are over-burdened. Sometimes when 
 you run into town, you won't see any other chars, npc or pc for several minutes while they load 
 onto your screen. Graphics are very sparse and the human chars bob up and down so terrible that 
 it looks stupid. 
  
  The economy and tradeskills seem to be pretty fun. It is nice to know that if you want, you can 
 be a figher and build your own weapons and armor. 
  
  Short and simple. Game needs some serious development work. Atari continues its plaque of releasing 
 buggy, not-finished games. I will hope this one gets better, but I am sorry to say it has been 
 a let-down so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkinLab
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 13, 2003 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Horizons does a lot of things right. It's very casual player friendly, the penalty for death is 
 lenient and there is little down time. On it's own merits, I enjoy the core gameplay.
  
  However this game has serious issues with its graphics engine. Don't let anyone fool you, the graphics 
 are far below todays standards. The character models are some of the worst in any MMORPG and the 
 environments are barely passable. The spell effects however are very nice, the only thing going 
 for the engine. With such sub par graphics you'd expect the game to run very smooth on today's 
 high end machines. This is not the case. The game absolutely chugs on various different types of 
 machines. Some people claim that they get serviceable frame rates so the problem just may be optimazitons 
 to the games engine. However on a whole the game runs terribly, ESPECIALLY with the quality of 
 graphics you get in return. How the game is now, it just isn't worth paying for. The games graphics 
 engine truly hobbles any potential that Horizons has. It's a shame because Horizons does manage 
 to do some things right, too bad the game just isn't up to snuff. Amateur hour is a good way to 
 put it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phlip
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2003 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Take note, I have only been palyed for about 2o hours now. Horizons gameplay is what most whoud 
 whant from a mmorpg. I mean you walk around and fight, what put horizond out ahead of the rest, 
 is you can fix your interface the way you like it. I have been playing dark age of camelot for 
 2 years now, so i am real usa to that interface. In HOrizons I can set up my interface to look 
 allmost just like it, sames goes with ever quest, or even make up your own interface. At this time 
 horizons is stil a tad buggey, but like all games like this they will be fixed.
  The crafting in horizons is so fun, why buy when you can make your own weapons just what way you 
 like them. you can make your sowrd and change how it looks even. craftng is no more boring watching 
 a littel green bar move across the screen. you go out mine the rock you need, kill the cows you 
 need then make your weapon.
  
  The Graphics are are just WOW, they may not have as nice of watter like camelot, but the players, 
 citys, and land just looks wonderfull. the cloth on the players like there robe or cloak move in 
 the wind. Tho if you do not have a high end card and fast net speed you will miss out on some of 
 this.
  
  The sounds, well one thing I can say about the sounds is Where can i download this music for my 
 own MP3 player.
  
  This is the mmorpg I have been waiting for, and it just gets better. you only stat out with 9 raced. 
 Then there are about 30 or more that are hiddin in horizons that if someone finds and free will 
 be opend up for all of us. I have even heard if you are a level 50 human fighter and wish to be 
 a cat person, you can buy a polymorth and and change your looks, or race.
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
