-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hospital Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/hospitaltycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bizarre interpersonal dynamics provide occasional moments of entertainment.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very derivative.
 Sims-like characteristics underdeveloped and out of place.
 Simplistic gameplay spells everything out for you.
 Repetitive Sims-like dialogue is maddening.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.7, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 467 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Big Red Software
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Jun 5, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hospital Tycoon tries to inject a bit of drama into its by-the-numbers tycoon game formula, but 
 ultimately ends up dead on the operating table. 

  If you're going to rip off a game, it's a good idea to make sure that you pick one that's both 
 current and successful. So it's hard to understand what DR Studios was thinking when it decided 
 to essentially remake the 1997 bomb Theme Hospital. The British developer's Hospital Tycoon is 
 like a reheated version of Bullfrog's ancient hospital-management sim, which was actually a cheap 
 copy of the company's Theme Park. Unsurprisingly, this copy of a copy of a copy is bland and derivative, 
 with only a halfhearted attempt at establishing a Sims-style ambiance to make it stand apart from 
 all the other shovelware out there with the word "tycoon" crammed somewhere into their titles. 

  Oddly enough, the biggest difference between Theme Hospital and Hospital Tycoon is that the latter 
 has a more developed theme. Whereas the decade-old Bullfrog game was a straight god game, the story 
 mode of play here drops you into a soap opera with all the angst and twice the cheese of a TV show 
 like  ER  or the late, great  St. Elsewhere . In addition to the usual tycoon-game management chores, 
 you get to follow the escapades of heartthrob doc Rick Steele and the rest of the staff at Sapphire 
 Beach Hospital. Everything here is certainly more fantasy than reality. The glass-walled hospital 
 looks more like the famous Sydney Opera than the usual pile of bricks that passes for houses of 
 healing in most metropolitan centers these days. Steele and a babe nurse are featured in posters 
 all over examination rooms. And patients complain of kooky made-up diseases like "mummifried" and 
 "lightbulbia." This is probably better than having to deal with budget cutbacks, fat nurses, and 
 people staggering into emergency with flesh-eating disease or voluminous goiters, though everything 
 is a little too kid-friendly here.            After a few hours with this game, you'll need a hug, 
 too.     

  DR Studios attempts to further this soapy feel with Sims-like characters that speak in garbled 
 simlish, have personality traits, and hook up or hate one another by turns. As with The Sims, you 
 can take control of these yobs and force them to commit malicious acts on one another like shove 
 and intimidate, or social acts like shake hands and tease, but there is rarely any point to doing 
 so. Everybody mostly gets along, so you're best off to let the staff run on autopilot and interact 
 however they see fit. This leads to some odd spectacles, if you bother to watch. Why is popular 
 Doc Buffman making out with the hated Nurse Dakota? Why are Professor Brahms and Nurse Daisy having 
 a teasing tickle fight in the research room? You'll never know. Or care, because these actions 
 have little impact on your objectives, which stick to the tried-and-true like curing diseases, 
 building specific equipment, and beautifying hospital corridors with fountains, statues, and the 
 like.  

  All of the Sims stuff doesn't fit well with the management aspects of the game, either, and it 
 really sticks out like a sore thumb when you skip the story episodes for sandbox play (which you'll 
 likely do in short order, as all the story really does is add some dull cutscenes, offbeat stories 
 about staffers, and things like missing vials filled with dangerous germs) . Game mechanics stick 
 to the god-game template every step of the way, leaving no real room or need for doctors and nurses 
 to play hanky-panky in the operating room. Patients arrive with weird, supposedly humorous illnesses 
 like explosive sneezing or golf rage, or some ailments that you can't immediately identify. You 
 then build examining rooms to make diagnoses, research facilities to figure out unknown maladies, 
 and special equipment like operating rooms and acid baths to treat them. There's a real lather, 
 rinse, repeat thing going on here.  

  Depth is not a part of your doctoring, however. Research is automatic. Whenever patients befuddle 
 your docs, the afflicted party eventually just wanders over to the research lab where a professor 
 is waiting to whip them around in what looks like a cyclotron in order to both diagnose the ailment 
 and prescribe what equipment is needed to make them all better. All identified illnesses are immediately 
 uploaded to what's called the curadex files, where they're listed alongside brief descriptions 
 of the symptoms, the equipment needed to cure them, and the cost (apparently Sapphire Beach is 
 located in the USA) of the treatment. You get some reasonably oddball cases as time goes by, and 
 get to build more involved equipment and carry out more serious (if always G-rated and goofy) medical 
 procedures, but everything is spelled out for you so bluntly that you don't so much play a game 
 as you color by the numbers. About all you ever have to figure out is which type of staff member 
 is needed to run the hardware that you buy, since the game doesn't tell you this information.  
 

  Audio and video are hit and miss. A big problem with the sound of the game is that it also doesn't 
 fit with the blended Sims/management-game philosophy. The simlish here is just god-awful. It's 
 loaded with repetition and seems entirely random, not the quasi-pig latin that you can almost make 
 out in the Sims games. Also, this gibberish is used as the audio counterpart for printed English 
 dialogue when you communicate with your administrative assistant and others, and that's somehow 
 amazingly annoying. The music also doesn't quite fit, with the score consisting of downbeat elevator 
 music instead of the up-tempo tunes that a game this purportedly zany desperately requires.    
         Kooky illnesses do little to spice up the bland gameplay.     

  The visuals do fit the part, though. Everything is colorful, and exaggerated animations and physical 
 features give the game a cartoonish air. Funny treatment sequences abound, as well. The good ones 
 are repeated too often to be amusing for long, although you should get a few chuckles out of moments 
 where nurses pump patients full of health with great big needles in the pharmacy. The one drawback 
 is a restricted camera that doesn't allow you to pan back far enough to get a good look at your 
 hospital. You can go to a bird's-eye view, but this angle is useless since it prevents you from 
 actually doing anything.  

  Panning way, way back from Hospital Tycoon is probably a good idea. The derivative and simplistic 
 gameplay might be a marginal piece of entertainment for god-game newbies and kids, but it won't 
 impress anyone else -- especially if you're old enough to know what Theme Hospital was.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Hospital Tycoon is a game trying to follow the success of other alike games, but it fails due to 
 its poor scenario and its minimal options and customizations.
  
  The good point of the game is the graphics which are very good indeed, helping you to see clearly 
 what's happening in the hospital. There is also a good camera, with whom you can see from the eyes 
 of a patient.
  
  However, the gameplay is very simple and easy, solving the biggest problems for you. The stuff 
 does not react fast enough when you face a difficult situation, and so everything is lost.
  
  There are some kind of funny and odd illnesses, which spice up the game for a while, but of 
 course this is not enough.
  
  Panning way, way back from Hospital Tycoon is probably a good idea. The derivative and simplistic 
 gameplay might be a marginal piece of entertainment for god-game newbies and kids, but it won't 
 impress anyone else -- especially if you're old enough to know what Theme Hospital was.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I think Hospital Tycoon is a fun game! Why the heck did gamespot give it a 4? I have no idea! It's 
 one of the best tycoon games ever, and theres hardly been any good tycoon games to date! Anyway, 
 Hospital Tycoon is meant to mock those stupid hospital dramas and each level is an episode with 
 its own story. The story is really funny, too. Also the gameplay is fun and there's lots of stuff 
 to do and build. You can cure people from sickness. LOL! The illnesses in this game are hilarious! 
 Theres "Lightbulbia": People light up and make a shocking sound. There's even a sickness called 
 "Bad Gas" where people run around and fart! It's a funny game and i reccomend to anyone who was 
 tricked by gamespot's really stupid low score of a 4. It's fun, funny, and smart! What else could 
 you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lauri143
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  I have played almost every tycoon that's been unleashed. Hospital Tycoon is a little bit too similar 
 to Sims and maybe that is the reason, why the interface suffers.
  But I like hospital tycoon, it was somehow entertaining and very interesting at the same time.
 
  
  Programmers should have done something about the sound. It was annoying that i couldnt hear any 
 voice.. only something similar to japan language.
  I have played almost every tycoon that's been unleashed. Hospital Tycoon is a little bit too similar 
 to Sims and maybe that is the reason, why the interface suffers.
  But I like hospital tycoon, it was somehow entertaining and very interesting at the same time.
 
  
  Programmers should have done something about the sound. It was annoying that i couldn't hear any 
 voice.. only something similar to japan language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoe256
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  i actually quite liked this game, even though i thought it was too short from the outset. but then 
 i hit a bug, where i couldn't complete an objective even though i had managed it several times! 
 and then i read on the internet how many other people were having problems and codemasters said 
 they weren't going to develop any patches. and i just didn't see the point in playing anymore.
 
  
  this game was easy to play and quite addictive, it was just totally let down by the lack of support 
 from the developers. if you don't manage to encounter any bugs then it would be an alright game. 
 its a shame the majority of people will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: internationaal
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The idea is good. Creating an interactive hospital soap opera. But why oh why didn't they actually 
 finish the game...
  
  It's already evident when the first level loads. Graphics are nice. But why are the character profiles 
 when each episode loads so low quality? It clearly shows. There's this greatly rendered hospital 
 and an awful overlay of the cast...
  
  Then we start. And we get the first sounds. OH MY GOD WHAT IS THAT???
  You get english subtitles 
 and some really horrible, irritating sounds that need to pass off as speak.
  The same with cutscenes. Thank god they're not speaking... but that's the problem! It's like a 
 silent movie! The characters are moving around and you get voice-over subtitles.
  
  But finally we're off to play. It plays easy. If you need to create a room you zoom out to an overview 
 and... oh wait... you CAN'T zoom out! Sure, there's this Overview button, but that's not really 
 easy to use. I want to zoom in on a single person and zoom out to an overview!
  
  You're taken by the hand for most of the time. With hints on what to do.
  So when you have to 
 deal with a contagious disease you're told to build a de-contamination chamber. And an operator. 
 Which goes out and searches for the patients to bring to the de-contamination chamber.
  And to speed things up you can hire more operators .
  So you hire a second one. And all they 
 do is chat each other up!
  Yes! All your patients will actually DIE because they just don't go out to get the patients! And 
 there's NO WAY you can tell them to start working!
  Click the operator, click somewhere in the hospital and let him or her walk there!
  So he walks 
 over there. And turns around to chat up his colleague again!
  
  In other words: this game would have been nice without some glaring bugs. UNFORTUNATELY CODEMASTERS 
 HAD SAID THAT THERE WILL NOT BE A PATCH!!!
  
  So releasing an unfinished game (it seems to be the trend nowadays) and not releasing a patch... 
 I think I'm mild giving it a 2.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ts2eng
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Having played this game myself I can honestly say it was a lot like playing theme hospital all 
 those years ago which infact was a great game in my opinion. Unlike Theme Hospital, Hospital Tycoon 
 failed to impress me because it becomes very repetitive and has all been done before and quite 
 quickly becomes rather boring.
  
  At first the illnesses are quite amusing but eventually become quite annoying especially one called 
 explosive sneezing. The fact that it the game is made into a cheesy soap opera makes it even worse 
 and is something I think should have been dropped which would have made the game a little bit better 
 seem as though it's waaaay over the top. You'll find yourself rather quickly opting for the game 
 mode sandbox that doesn't include this.
  
  Overall this game is good for a quick laugh and to even re-live those Theme Hospital days if you 
 like but it's nothing more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ayush_Singh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Till now i have played almost all tycoons and i was waiting for this game for a long time. game 
 is of mere 700+Mbs so i did not expect very good graphics (realistic) . the enviroment was 3-d which 
 was fun . in story mode each level will unlock new apparatus and machines tools but also tough 
 patients. i finished 12 parts story mode in 10 hrs . so game is not very long. but is funny. anyone 
 who likes tycoon games can play this game. only con i found in this game is characters are not 
 very interactive with the player. there is difficulty in controlling them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoB0782
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  OK, so to judge this game by the exceptionally high standards set by Theme Hospital all those years 
 ago could be considered unfair. However, seeing as how the makers have seemed to base a large amount 
 of the game on the same concepts, and seeing that the game is set up in much the same way, comparisons 
 are going to be made.
  
  Although there are the cute people, with cute disease names, and the same ideas as in Theme Hospital, 
 Hospital Tycoon just seems to be a poor imitator. The game has 16 levels which are quite easy and 
 took me less than 10 hours from start to finish. Actually, quite a bit less, it was over in a day.
 
  
  I am just glad I only paid &pound;4.99 for this, otherwise I would have felt ripped off. There 
 is a chance for Codemasters to actually win with this game, just issue a patch or two which enhance 
 the gameplay, and CHANGE THE VOICES (so irritating) . More than anything, this game needs more levels, 
 and I really don't see the point of a Sandbox mode. Once you have played for a few hours, it is 
 all more of the same old. If there were tens, or even hundreds of diseases to discover, with multiple 
 different hospital layouts (not just 4!!!) then maybe Sandbox would stand a chance.
  
  As it stands, DO NOT PAY FULL PRICE FOR THIS. You are better off spending &pound;5 on Theme Hospital 
 which is still available on bargain labels. It is by far superior game. Come on Codemasters, add 
 more to this game already, it cannot have taken that long to develop, and could really be a contender 
 for the new Theme Hospital crown. BTW, if you had not guessed, I STILL play Theme Hospital and 
 LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StefanVonS
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Like others, I had high hopes for Hospital Tycoon. Previews, screen shots, and other advertisements 
 led me to believe this game would be a suitable replacement for Theme Hospital. I was horribly 
 mistaken.
  There is nothing to do in this game except place rooms, buy equipment, and hire staff. That is 
 it. If you so wish to indulge yourself in the social aspects of the game, you will be disappointed 
 there as well. I have seen others state that they could not get high numbers of patients in their 
 hospitals. I, however, have topped out at 35 patients at any one time in the hospital. The AI does 
 not have an efficient queuing mechanism, making large amounts of patients undesirable. Patients 
 will die, without fail, regardless of the amounts of staff and facilities you provide. For some 
 reason, the patients tend to stand around or wander away even when the facilities and the staff 
 are available.
  
  All in all, the game is boring... and when its not... its frustrating. This is a budget game that 
 might be worth the 15 minutes of entertainment when it hits the $5 bargain bin. Codemasters and 
 Big Red don't seem to understand that customers would rather have a well-polished game that costs 
 a little more than cheaper, poorly-developed game that isn't worth buying in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suckonmyjunk
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is very basic, put things here and there, find out a new illness and put more stuff on 
 the ground. Thats about all there is to this shallow game, but some may take some enjoyment out 
 of the drama aspects. The sims-style voice overs become irritating very quickly, making me reach 
 for the mute button to cut it out, and I love the Sims games...
  
  As a fan of practically all the big medical shows (House, Scrubs etc) , I can take something from 
 this game, but others will have to look for better to feed their medical cravings.
  
  Wait until this game is in the bargain bins... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel_rh
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics and very fun at first but after some hours the game is too easy, there are no control 
 over many things like patients file order, doctor's work/room, sometimes the hospital is sooooooo 
 lonely! you'll never see a madness of patients or a collapse hospital... is not game to be compared 
 with Theme Hospital, good concept but very incomplete.
  
  This could be the perfect succesor for Theme Hospital but it leaks many things that are vital for 
 this type of game.
  
  Pros:
  -Decent graphics.
  -Has potential.
  
  Const.:
  -Too easy even in hard level.
  -A doctor can't be assigned to a room, they always enter in the 
 room they wants.
  -A. I. is poor.
  -Not many patients at the same time, 15-20 is the top and sometimes there're only 1-5 patients 
 at same time.
  -Can't be changed the order of patients even if there're dying.
  -And many things more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  What can i say, i really wanted to love this game and it could've been a classic even, playing 
 as a funny version of DR. HOUSE wouldve been great but unfortunately its not that good.
  
  1. Graphics - they are very nice, characters and animations are veeery well done, the hospital 
 does feel alive. best part of the game.
  running at 1280x1024 maxed out with 0 lag and super smooth.
  
  2. Sound - again very well done 
 but the tutorial characters trying to explain things and some others are downright awful and they'll 
 make you turn off the sound....... there are so many times before a nurse saying KLAAAAAAAAAAAA 
 gets on your nerves.
  
  3. Gameplay - its a blend of The Sims vs Tycoon games, the thing is the game feels unfinished even 
 though the story mode is extremely enjoyable, camera is very weird and i feel as if i have no control 
 over anything and very limited, menus are a complicated and not too clear.... you dont know what 
 is what.
  
  Conclusion?
  
  This game IMHO would've been a classic but fails miserably, i truly wanted to love this game, i 
 am impressed with the characters but the gameplay is simply annoying rather than enjoyable.
  
  not recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ee85
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game since I am a Theme Hospital fan. I am fairly disappointed 
 because the only upgrade it has to theme hospital is the graphics. Other than that, it has failed 
 to keep me in the game. There are so little management skills needed in this game like you have 
 no say in staffs' pay and satisfaction. I started playing theme hospital again and it still keeps 
 me hooked while i'm bored with hospital tycoon after 15 minutes. The story mode is boring because 
 you reach its target in no time and the sandbox mode has no target. There are little diseases and 
 patients. You also have no option for hospital expansion and upgrades. An extremely simple and 
 dull game that has little gameplay options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix1980dk
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Well Hospital Tycoon it kind of a classic brought back to life, and when I first heard about it 
 I thought Great because I was a great fan of Theme hospital, but when I first played Hospital 
 tycoon I was disappointed because the sound and the overall gameplay was not great. First, they 
 do not use real voices to explain new mission objects instead; there is a lot of reading. Further 
 more the cut scenes do not have that much to brag about either, because it is all text with a bit 
 of animation. Not much happening for the campaign to brag about either, with 12 levels 4 at each 
 hospital with a few missions none of them great they could have made it a lot better.
  However, the sandbox mode is OK I my eyes because you can play on your time as what is normal in 
 sandbox mode. However, I cannot help mention the graphics they are just bade. It is like stepping 
 a few years bag and the same with sound as I have said earlier. They had a great idea and did not 
 do a good job with it sorry girl and boys. You could have made it better a lot better infact.
 
  Therefore, I rather go back to Theme hospital It was so much more fun than this game.
  
  my first Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_3d
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  What was done like a million years is fare better then this thing i fin the game in no time its 
 not challenging its simply boring nothing like Them Hospital which was really fun. Even the dam 
 story is dumb nothing really good is going on i mean at least when ER was out the story was fun 
 to play maybe it was not what we had in mind but it was a nice Sim game but as for this i am extremely 
 disappointing i had really high hopes i mean the idea was great to create a new Them hospital but 
 the game is really bad Never the less the Graphics seems good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  It's been 10 years since Theme Hospital was released, so it was due to successor... but we'll probably 
 have to wait 10 more years to get a worthy one
  
  While Theme Hospital did have it's flaws, this one has almost all the flaws that Theme Hospital 
 had, while it adds a lot more. Here are the worst of them:
  
  1. The hospitals are mostly empty. For the first 2/3rd of the game you don't get more than 10 patients 
 in the hospital at the same time (this includes those who are cured) . Waiting lines are non-existent
 
  2. The diseases are boring. Most of them are very annoying, as a lot of patients are either flashing, 
 sending out shock waves or whatever. The first few times it's fun, but it gets quickly annoying 
 when all 10 patients are flashing on the screen
  3. The whole episodes thing is stupid. The story is something a 10-year old would be ashamed to 
 write and it interferes with the gameplay... I'm here to run a hospital, not to make sure that 
 my doctors are friends... this isn't The Sims
  4. There are 3 hospitals in the game... 3..? One season = one hospital... and it took like 3 hours 
 to get to season 3
  5. After each episode the hospital will be reset... now that really makes you feel like you haven't 
 done ANYTHING!
  6. The camera is very annoying. Max zoomed out is way too much zoomed in. And you can't see what's 
 happening at the rooms at the bottom of the screen because of the wall
  7. The user interface is slow and annoying. It takes to many clicks just to hire one doctor
  
 8. You don't have much control over the sizes of the rooms. They come in several sizes: 8x8 8x12 
 12x8 12x12 and so on... What if I want a room that is 7x9? That's impossible... oh, and you have 
 no control over the door either
  9. The speach in the game is very annoyed. If you hated it in The Sims, this will make you tear 
 your heart out. I doubt they spend more than 5 minutes recording it... luckily you can turn it 
 off
  
  
  
  But at least the graphics are ok... ... now back to Theme hospital 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The game sounded cool when I first saw it but was quickly let down after the first episode.
  
  The graphics are subpar, but not the worst I've seen in a tycoon. The patients cartoonish style 
 sicknesses and heads make the game unrealistic and at most times annoying as the diseases are repititous 
 in audio and visual experiences.
  
  The audio is just a bad attempt to remake a sim language but for the most part breaks off at the 
 end of sentences. I'm assuming its random noises put together dynamically to make it sound like 
 a new sim type language. It failed.
  
  The game needs less drama style episodes and more gameplay. It also holds the players hand way 
 too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game when I first heard about it and now I have played it, I regret 
 it. Ok so at first it was quite fun, the diseases they come up with are funny and imaginative and 
 also the main story line is funny and try&amp;#8217; s to keep you playing the game. First the story, 
 it could be improved by having speech telling you the story instead of just reading the subtitles 
 at the bottom it was a big let down when I realized I had to read the text and observe what was 
 going on with the story. The story as I said is interesting, the bits I have seen seem well thought 
 out and could represent a normal hospital, but the sound is a let down. So, onto the sound. This 
 was one of the major let downs to the games fun level. The sounds almost seem like they were recycled 
 from the old Theme Hospital just in higher quality. Most of the sounds are not unique they are 
 played on a loop with no variation. The music I think would be ok if there was a higher volume 
 setting for it without having to turn up every other sound with the main speaker volume. The graphics 
 are also a big let down. I knew beforehand that they would be comic book XIII style, but they still 
 seem really pixilated even with the detail full and playing on 1024x1280. Personally the old Theme 
 Hospital graphics were better I think! Despite all of the let downs, it is quite fun as I said, 
 the diseases you have to deal with seem to have had a lot of effort put into them. I just wish 
 they put more effort into the rest of the game.
  All in all, the game is ok but far from being the best tycoon game out there. If you&amp;#8217; re 
 looking for a bit of fun then buy it, but don't go out thinking you will be hooked onto an instant 
 classic, because it isn't one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottzed
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Theme Hospital was a great game and I'd hoped this would be a slick, modernized update. However, 
 what it makes up for in better graphics is lost in the substandard user interface. In TH, you would 
 select the type of room you wanted, drag out the room dimensions, queue up the objects you wanted, 
 before finally placing them. In Hospital Tycoon, you place a pre-sized room, the type of the room 
 is left blank until you place a specific type of object (e. g. drug cabinet = Pharmacy) , and then 
 you repeatedly select and place objects as neccessary. The process is much less efficient and intuitive 
 than in TH and results in frustration.
  
  The game camera needs the ability to zoom out on the hospital more. You can switch to a static 
 aerial view, which will show you the layout of the hospital and the purpose of the existing rooms, 
 but not much else. Even at the most distant setting, the area that you can observe seems restrictive.
 
  
  The non-descript gibberish that forms the dialogue of the characters was a poor choice. In The 
 Sims, the same type of chatter was used to show interactions between game characters. Here it is 
 used by characters interacting with the player (e. g. when the out-going hospital administrator 
 gives you tips) . The gibberish is annoying and merely serves to distract the player from the printed 
 dialogue of what the character is actually saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boeroe123
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game for about 3 hours all i can say that, for a Theme Hospital fan, this game 
 is a total failure.
  
  When I started the story mode the first thing that hit me was that it clearly is a story mode , 
 but badly done. You get introduced whit some of the staff, which is all good and fun, but all the 
 text you get is not narrated, neither are the voices of the two tutorial characters. Instead of 
 that you get the toe curling sims voices . When I heard this I wanted to quit the game right away. 
 Sadly I didn't..
  
  When you have been introduced to the game you've seen it all. The only thing that there is to do 
 in the whole game is build pre-fabricated rooms, put some equipment in it, a little bit of decoration 
 here and there, hire enough staff and your done. All you can do from this point is watch sick people 
 get in, get examined, cured and scuffled off. Well thats not totally correct tho. You can also 
 make the staff interact whit each other, in the familiar Sims way, but this doesn't contribute 
 to your hospital or patients in any way whatsoever. Every time you've completed your goals, you 
 get a cut scene of your staff not getting along, a doctor stealing supplies or a new hospital romance. 
 Sadly also whit out narration and is completely whit out any atmosphere and plainly boring.
  
  The sounds in the game, apart from the muttering dialog, are extremely annoying. For example, 
 if there are 3 patients whit the hibby-jibbies present you keep getting a high pitched ringing 
 sound non stop. Add a few more patients whit different deceases and you'll go nutter. The in-game 
 music doesn't make it any better either. The same elevator music on an endless loop will make you 
 want to turn off the sound or just puncture your own eardrums. All in all: If you like childish 
 story telling and humor and enjoy watching patients and doctor strut around you might want to consider 
 trying it. If you, on the other hand, are a Theme Hospital fan and looked forward to a sequel, 
 whit tough challenges fun gameplay and bizarre humor, don't bother and save yourself the hassle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jswallow
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  Disappointing sums up my experience with Hospital Tycoon so far.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game's solid, it's entertaining and enjoyable, but it's just not in Theme 
 Hospital's league (and that's a very old game now) . The Sims-like element of getting staff members 
 to interact with each other and become friends (or enemies) seems pointless and bolted onto the 
 rest of the game.
  
  Story-mode needs to be more of a challenge, I've played for about four hours and think I'm more 
 than halfway through the game without needing to restart any levels and try again. Surely I should 
 have messed something up by now with my strategy.
  
  But ... don't let this deter you. The game is still much better than many other things on the market 
 these days, so if you want a management sim game this is up there (but go and find Theme Hospital 
 in a bargain bin and see what you're missing as well!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Since there was a famous, successful Hospital managing game, Theme Hospital by BullForg, it is 
 easy to compare this game with the classic.
  As i spent 6 hours to complete the story mode with 3 series, those Objective of the Level are easy 
 to finish.
  
  Although there are many disease among those 3 level, but the disease seen in Hospital 1 will not 
 be appeared in Hospital 2 and 3, therefore, you can only get fun with the sandbox mode.
  
  I can only comment the game is trying to put Theme Hospital into 3D and with more simulation factors, 
 such as Worker-relationship, but it doesn't affect too much, besides that, i always see that the 
 workers talking all the time and don't repair the machines.
  
  You may get fun if you are a tycoon lover, but you will be disappointed if you are a lover of theme 
 hospital. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emmm78
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward for this game, Theme Hospital being one of my favourites ever, in hoping 
 that it would elevate from a clone with better graphics into a new interesting funny development. 
 Unfortunately after a couple of hours of playing, I finally realized that the only things that 
 had kept me from quitting were just the cloned layout and ideas of the awesome TH... Don`t get 
 me wrong : improvements have been made, obviously visual and in some minor extent regarding gameplay, 
 but they slowly fade out and become annoying through the game storytelling. Apart from becoming 
 totally clisee boring, the story gave me a dull feeling from being so child humoured instead of 
 the sick humour TH gave me and I was expecting to. All in all it`s not a game to be missed, for 
 fans who could think of it as a patched addon TH and skip the story mode as well as for newcomers 
 who can easily get in the hospital management folly atmosphere...
  Edit: these were my initial impressions, to which I must add after finishing the game on high speed 
 in under an hour, that some idiotic gameplay bugz and the lack of diversity makes this game a total 
 waste of time and mostly of money... so just rent it or better yet play the original TH and skip 
 this crap... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE IT!
  
  Sometimes we like to sit back and play a game that doesn't require our entire brain to kick in. 
 A game with which we can just relax and watch things happen. One that doesn't require extensive 
 strategy or planning... THIS GAME is it!
  
  Those of you that remember 'Theme Hospital' will be able to get into Hospital tycoon without a, 
 excuse the expression, hiccup!
  
  An easy to play, easy of the hardware and on the eyes modern cousin of the classic Theme Hospital'. 
 With new infirmities, machines and cures. Less all the building hassles one ran into with the older 
 game. Building rooms is just a matter of selecting the right size ratio, rotating and click. No 
 more placing windows, doors and such. The room modules come prefabricated, add your primary machine 
 to define the type of room and presto, instant application! You can still add decorations so the 
 interior designer in you will still feel good.
  
  The graphics are great, clean, clear and run great! All the information is very well organized 
 and sortable lists make managing a breeze. You know where everything and everyone is and what they 
 are doing in just a couple of clicks. A very well designed GUI. Clear type and logical navigation.
 
  
  A great feature is not only being able to track an individual patient or staff member, but also 
 you can see what they see... sort of reminded me of the movie Being John Malkovich. Very nice touch, 
 although when the hospital starts to get busy, do you rarely have time to take in the view as Ms. 
 Peabody sneezing all the way to the pharmacist.
  
  The music is alright and blends in with the game's style of play.
  
  There's a story mode and 
 a sandbox mode which I like the most.
  
  The bad: There's interaction between the staff members that adds nothing to the game play. I totally 
 skip even trying for the staff to get along, it adds nothing to the game.
  
  I honestly wish there were a slider to adjust game difficulty... because as it comes out of the 
 box this game is very hard to lose. I finished the story mode without thinking. One thing is for 
 a game to be easy another is for it to be a cakewalk.
  
  Another annoyance is the voices, the generic-mumble Sims style is poor in comparison and can get 
 on your nerves fast.
  
  To sum it all up:
  Overall, Hospital Tycoon is a good game that could use a better story mode and more challenges. 
 Perhaps in future patches? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
