-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hostile Waters: Antaeus Rising
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/hostilewatersantaeusrising/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 18, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 216 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Rage Software
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 13, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In spite of its lack of multiplayer support, even the most jaded real-time strategy player will 
 find something fresh and exciting in Hostile Waters. 

 Hostile Waters: Antaeus Rising is a breed apart from the typical real-time strategy game. UK development 
 house Rage Software has picked apart the traditional design, which was pioneered by Westwood Studios 
 in such classics as Dune II and Command &amp; Conquer, and developed a captivating fully 3D game 
 that defies convention. Although there is much for the real-time strategy veteran to latch onto 
 in Hostile Waters -- including resource gathering, unit construction, enemy base assault, and so 
 on -- much has been added, tweaked, or removed altogether from the basic formula. Actually, one of 
 the more significant omissions in Hostile Waters is its lack of multiplayer support. Yet in spite 
 of this, the game's excellent story, action elements, de-emphasis on repetitive base building, 
 and largely automated resource collection ensure that even the most jaded real-time strategy player 
 will find something fresh and exciting in Hostile Waters.           The impressive Antaeus waits 
 offshore.    

 Perhaps the most obvious discrepancy between Hostile Waters and most real-time strategy games is 
 its detailed story. Written by acclaimed comic book author Warren Ellis ( Transmetropolitan ,  
 The Authority ) and told through evocative cutscenes, the tale is emblematic of the best science 
 fiction of John Wyndham ( Day of the Triffids ,  The Kraken Wakes ) . Unlike the traditional postapocalyptic 
 setting, the scene in Hostile Waters is a "future world gone sane." The year is 2032, and mankind 
 has abandoned weapons and entered into a golden age. Of course, the situation promptly becomes 
 more interesting with the arrival of a cabal of "Old World magnates" bent on regaining their lost 
 power. They promptly establish an artificial island chain in the Pacific and begin launching attacks 
 on the new and improved humanity, apparently with the assistance of aliens. The only hope for this 
 peaceful society is the Adaptive Cruiser Antaeus, a super aircraft carrier and war wagon that's 
 spent the better part of the past two decades rusting at the bottom of the ocean. You must complete 
 21 missions in the solo campaign to get the vessel back in operating condition and save the world 
 from tyranny.   

  An inventive plot isn't all that separates Hostile Waters from the pack. The actual gameplay is 
 considerably different from that found in traditional real-time strategy games, such as the recent 
 Emperor: Battle for Dune. For starters, there is no base building. The Antaeus fills that role 
 in every mission, serving as a manufacturing platform where nanotechnology is used to create varied 
 models of helicopters, tanks, dune buggies, hovercraft, and so on. Vehicles can be further tricked 
 out with add-ons such as armor plating, special weaponry, repair modules, cloaking devices, and 
 more. Unit and equipment options are predictably limited at first, but more are discovered or seized 
 from the enemy as the game progresses. Resources must be gathered to power the machines that construct 
 all items, but this has been automated through the use of special armored utility vehicles. These 
 tanklike mechanisms search out scrap metal on the various islands and recycle it into usable energy. 
 Just plop one down in a base you've recently destroyed, and you'll soon be able to fire up the 
 production lines.           Picturesque explosions are your reward for a job well done.    

 Most of the game comes down to assaulting enemy bases for one reason or another and then processing 
 the junk that's left behind into the resources needed to build additional units. This rather familiar 
 formula, which is derivative of countless real-time strategy games, has also been modified in a 
 number of ways. The biggest change is that you can assume direct control over units using a mouse 
 and keyboard setup identical to that of most shooters. As the captain of the Antaeus, you can jump 
 into the cockpit of any vehicle at any time to directly lead an attack or handle a delicate aspect 
 of a particular operation. This lends Hostile Waters a strong action component and makes it play 
 out more like a hybrid action-strategy game, such as Battlezone, than like a conventional RTS game. 
 What's more, this action mode isn't superficial -- it's been fully integrated with the more-strategic 
 aspects of the game, so it'll seem completely natural during a battle to hop into an attack chopper 
 (for example) and start firing.   

  Of course, much of the time you'll be giving tactical orders to your units in the traditional way. 
 Yet even this aspect of the game is markedly different from what you may be accustomed to from 
 real-time strategy. For example, remote units can be piloted by computer chips encoded with the 
 characteristics of soldiers who died in the last war. Their very beings have been preserved courtesy 
 of a controversial government program called Soulcatcher. Each has been captured in his or her 
 entirety, meaning that you get specific personalities and skill sets depending on which soldier 
 you choose. For instance, Ransom is a vicious chopper pilot prone to shouting expletives when shooting 
 down the enemy (though swearing can be turned off if you like your wars curse-free) . Patton is 
 a grunt who's at home behind the yoke of a tank. Borden is a cerebral cargo pilot who can't help 
 but wonder how weird it feels to exist as a computer chip. During the course of battle, they'll 
 acknowledge orders in their own irrepressible ways, have spats, cuss out opponents, flirt with 
 one another, and so on. Their personnel records are detailed on mission loading screens, and sometimes 
 even their former military exploits will be shown in cutscenes. By the end of just a few missions, 
 you'll have grown attached to this motley crew and will be looking forward to acquiring the new 
 ones that show up at the end of most expeditions.    

 Soldiers are usually handed their marching orders from the war room aboard the Antaeus. The game 
 automatically pauses whenever you enter this chamber, making it easy to plan out attacks, group 
 forces, and establish waypoints. Instructions can be given to remote units when you're in direct 
 control of a vehicle by using the pop-up command interface. This is probably the one weak point 
 in the game engine, as it's often too chaotic to fly or drive a unit and simultaneously concoct 
 a strategic attack plan for your comrades. Usually, it's best to drop out to the war room for a 
 momentary breather and a chance to determine the course of events while you're not under fire. 
           The evil cabal's machinations are explored in cutscenes.    

 Thankfully, you don't have to worry about micromanagement where Soulcatcher chip-equipped units 
 are concerned. Skilled chopper pilots like Ransom and Korolev are extremely intelligent and possess 
 more than a rudimentary knowledge of battle tactics. Give them direct orders to assault an enemy 
 base behind a hill, and they will use the surrounding terrain as cover. In one mission, Korolev 
 played a game of hide-and-seek with an enemy gun turret she had been ordered to take out. She would 
 creep over a hill, open fire, and then withdraw quickly before the turret could lock on to her 
 heavily damaged Hornet attack copter. It's hard to imagine a human player handling such a situation 
 any differently. Pilots will also juke and dive to avoid enemy fire in dogfights. Some will even 
 veer sideways and strafe their enemies, ensuring that the foe can't simply move horizontally to 
 escape the onslaught.   

  Hostile Waters is as pretty as it is smart. Production values are extremely high in every aspect 
 of the game. Its proprietary engine is absolutely first-rate, featuring fully 3D island environments 
 that are remarkably true to life. Vehicles are highly detailed and move just like they should, 
 whether they're lumbering tanks or maneuverable choppers. Missile contrails and explosions are 
 so authentic that you'll find yourself flinching away from the monitor on occasion. Map design 
 is handled extremely well. Enemy bases are beehives of activity: Tanks thunder around on patrol, 
 gun turrets swivel to take you into their sights, and even tiny little soldiers and support staff 
 hurry about from office to office. This impression of a living, breathing world is further emphasized 
 by day-and-night cycles that rotate every 10 minutes or so. The sun rises and sets, clouds move 
 in bringing rain and mist, and clearing evening skies can even reveal a vista of stars.   

  The game's audio is of a similarly high caliber. In-game effects are rendered extremely well, particularly 
 the whirring of helicopter blades and the whump of missile impacts -- you can almost feel an enemy 
 missile strike home, particularly if it's a killing blow. The voice acting in Hostile Waters is 
 also exceptional, thanks in large part to the crew of well-known British thespians hired by Rage. 
 Veterans like Tom Baker of  Dr. Who  fame and Paul Darrow and Glynis Barber of another cult British 
 sci-fi show,  Blake's 7 , use a subtle reading of their lines to get the script across. Histrionics 
 are kept to a minimum, and even the use of foul language is mostly appropriate. The actors' success 
 at drawing you into the story is testament to how important voice acting is in a game and to why 
 it shouldn't be overlooked.           Computer-controlled vehicles will do an expert job in battle. 
    

 There is one significant shortcoming in Hostile Waters. Once you finish the solo campaign, you'll 
 also be finished with the game, unless you decide to replay the campaign from scratch. That is, 
 the game includes no multiplayer mode, no skirmish mode, and no map editor. This will no doubt 
 be a serious problem for real-time strategy players accustomed to skirmishing against friends online. 
 The excellent campaign's lengthy series of missions will take the average players at least 30 hours 
 to complete, so the problem isn't that Hostile Waters is too short. Instead, the absence of multiplayer 
 features in Hostile Waters will prevent it from having the same sort of lasting value as some of 
 the most popular real-time strategy games from over the years.   

  Even though it has no multiplayer features, there can be no denying that Rage has created a very 
 engaging game in Hostile Waters. The company expertly combined new ideas in real-time strategy 
 along with enjoyable action elements -- a combination similar to that found in previous critically 
 acclaimed games, such as Uprising and Battlezone. For the most part, these earlier hybrids haven't 
 been commercially successful, and because of its similar characteristics and its lack of multiplayer 
 support, Hostile Waters might not be, either. That's unfortunate, because the innumerable good 
 qualities in Hostile Waters mean that it really shouldn't be missed.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grymmeller
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:11 pm PT
Review:  .. the clerk handed over a green hardboardbox without a word, just with a talking smile over his 
 face, one of the best I ever bought from him in that store. Hidden Waters addicting exiting challengin 
 and pure fun. Nanotech at its best ,so far, balanced action and tactics, humour and personality in 
 the soulchips, tell me about creativity at its best. A pity it not had a multiplayerpart but maybee 
 therefore it has been kept in the realm of forgotten treasure and maybee therefore it is its own 
 highclass entertainment software. I have played this game over and over again and never become bored. It 
 is no problem to find new ways to solve the problems in this game it is very replayable and I must 
 state that to understand the ingenuity of this one you have to replay it at least once, and you 
 will almost for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  From the looks of games and history we think that one think is certain: humanity is doomed to make 
 war while it exists. But in this game one war ended all wars. No, it didn't blow up every sentient 
 person on Earth. It didn't look bad at all. But humanity ceased warring after it. Guns disappeared. 
 Countries as such disapeared. There was only Earth and by the looks of things, some mild communism 
 was running around (free food and energy as said in long cutscenes at the beginning. Oh, how long 
 were they... anyway, if that ain't communism...) . As the game proudly says the world gone sane 
 . But there were still old derelicts from the XX. century: Capitalists, industrialists an generals, 
 who were not happy that they are obsolete. No one needs them because peace is smiling and orbital 
 satellites are beaming free solar energy and nanobot filled vending machines at streets make waste 
 into food and other usables. So the dinosaurs, called The Cabal by the good guys, decide that it's 
 time to retake Earth. They build military forces both natural and artificial islands in the Pacific. 
 They start launching rockets. What can the weaponless new world order do? Awaken the last of Adaptive 
 Cruisers.
  The mighty ships were gently left at the bottom of the ocean. When the need arose they managed 
 to wake one of the, number 00 (two zeros - prototype) , Antaeus . Besides looking cool, it has enough 
 nanites in it's Creation Decks to build any military unit instantly (as in you push the build button 
 and you get military unit faster then in a blink of an eye) , provided it has enough resources. 
 And here the Soulcatcher comes into play. During the last war this government program recorded 
 the personalities of troops that perished. Now they can be put in military units to kill after 
 death. That means an army made of individual soldiers. For example, Ransom is the first one you'll 
 get and he's a bad ass combat chopper pilot and swears as hell. Sure, you can put him in tank, 
 but that isn't his place. Paton is more suited for that and would complain if put into a chopper. 
 But since there can be only one Random present at the time, the unit management is essential. Sure, 
 empty units can be made, but they won't do stuff until you personaly use them. That's right: every 
 unit in the game can (and sometimes must) be controled personaly in third person view. Also, as 
 an innovation, while doing some work yourself you can also order other troops around by a nifty 
 control system which is very handy.
  The game itself is played like this: cutscene, briefing, building initial forces from initial resources 
 (building a collector unit at the begining is a must) doing battle, blowing things up and sending 
 the collector to gather resouces from killed enemies, buildings and stuff. Antaeus can recycle 
 friendly units too, if they are in the right position. Enemy can make infinite amount of units 
 while oil dericts are intact. That means infinite resources for skilled commanders. With oil derricks 
 destroyed (and recycled) fuel tanks ... fuel... the factories. When the tanks and factories are 
 down, enemy is going down too. While enemy will make ordinary units (Abrams tank, reckon choppers, 
 Apache choppers, Mammoth tank (this one is nasty) , artillery and some more interesting units later 
 on, i don't want to spoil anything) , Antaeus makes attack choppers, hover tanks, undetectable to 
 radar buggies and such armed with miniguns, rockets, lasers (the games sniper rifle - it does have 
 sniping ability) , emp (if you manage to kill airborne units with this, it's one shot - one kill, 
 or two... or three) , artilery, cloaking shields and repair units... and chips with recorded personalities 
 of dead soldiers.
  These many details make this game an excellent mix of RTS and TPS witch all the right components: 
 great visuals (explosions! Antaeus units and the shot itself) , professionaly written plot, great 
 sounds (individual for each of the deaders) and other great stuff. If you haven't played it yet, 
 you must do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmajin
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Hostile Waters: Antaeus Rising is truly perfect. Overall, the game features an immensive storyline, good 
 graphics, smart a. i., and numerous action-packed levels. The characters in this game are all unique. 
 Whether it be their fighting style, their weapon or vehicle of choice, or just the way they talk 
 to one another, you can expect something different from each one. This is really useful when planning 
 out an attack against the enemy. Having some problems deciding who's competent enough to attack 
 the enemy in a chopper? Just send one of the naturally gifted flyers like Ransom or Korolev. The 
 same goes for choosing tank operators, clean-up crew drivers and everything else in this game. 
 By the time you finish the game you'll be wishing you could stay and chat with your crew on the 
 way back home.
  
  The levels in this game are truly exceptional. No island will look the same as the last and they 
 all were scenically awesome. Some levels will be easier to play using a chopper, some with a tank 
 and some with a hovercraft. Some of the more lateral levels also feature dead and infected land 
 caused by some creatures in the game. It is all just beautifully designed and drawn to provide 
 the best type of battle this game can offer.
  
  There are many different types of vehicles and weapons to choose from in this game. There are also 
 add-ons that you can insert in the vehicle when building it. The weapons list is also incredible. 
 Ranging from machine guns to futuristic EMP pulse guns this game gives you a wide variety to choose 
 from. Any vehicle can have any add-on and any weapon so there's always room for making your battle 
 a different experience than the last.
  
  In the end, this game is an awesome addition to any gamers' library. With an immensive storyline, 
 wide cast of characters and huge list of weapons and vehicles, this game is truly a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enaceo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  I don't know why ,but this game is not so widely known within the community.
  This game is one of those combinations between some genres. But unlike the others, this game incorporates 
 a bit of RTS with a bit of action and tactical planning and it does it so well that it will keep 
 you playing for a long long time. I know it did with me.
  The first time I got this game was in 2002 ,when it was offered specially from a magazine I bought.
 
  I was thrilled by it. While seemengly simple and straight-forward, the game can get complicated 
 and even the best of tacticians might find some levels difficult.
  This game has been keeping me entertained for a lot of time and I still play it sometimes these 
 days.
  If you don't have this game ,and are a fan of RTS or SF games, than don't look any further and get 
 this game. You won't regret it !
  This is a classic and a masterpiece in the full meaning of it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 42316
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  My word, this is one of those games that just blows you away with what Its got.
  It Hhas a BRILLIANT storyline, good graphics, immersive sound, smart A. I.
  the perfect plot, 
 and best of all, some of best characters any game will ever see. They just sucked you in and wouldn't 
 let go. The story was so good that the cliffhanger ending deserves to be carried on. Too bad that 
 the company went out of business. Anyway this game also has some of the coolest units, they kept 
 me on my seat, trying to find out what I would get next, and boy did they deliver. From the Hornet 
 to the Phoenix tand the Salamander for thr Rhino. they were just to cool. If any body knows any 
 game along the lines of this one, please tell me somehow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Ever since I first laid eyes on this gem of a game I was hooked. This is a beautiful action-strategy 
 hybrid of the same breed as BattleZone, minus the base construction element. Instead, Hostile Waters 
 features a carrier vessel that can spit out a range of customizable and very capable vehicles to 
 help you overcome the onslaught of your enemies. Fighting by your side are a handful of computer 
 controlled personalities that you can order around either from the cockpit of your preferred vehicle 
 or from an overhead map. You may also step into any vehicle at any given time to man the controls 
 yourself.
  
  As you rush through an imaginary Pacific archipelago the story is advanced little by little through 
 elaborate cut scenes, becoming more and more twisted over the course of the game. Starting out 
 a breeze the game soon turns into a desperate fight for survival, as your carrier comes under heavy 
 attacks from very aggressive enemies. Fortunately the AI of your squad is so good that they do 
 not require baby-sitting , unlike in so many other games.
  
  To put it simply, Hostile Waters is one of the best game I have ever had the fortune to play. If 
 you have the slightest love for fast paced action gaming you will find something to like about 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amalgamation
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I was searching around the bargain bins of Big Lots with a measly 10 bucks and I came across this 
 game. After playing through the entire game - twice - I can definitively say this is the best strategy 
 AND action game you will ever play.
  
  Hostile Waters is a hybrid Action/Strategy game, and it blends the elements nicely. If you construct 
 units with soulcatcher chips (allowing them to be AI controlled) , you can give many different types 
 of orders as they are very competent at doing what they do. Every AI chip however has a certain 
 specialty when it comes to combat. Borden enjoys demolition work, Ransom specializes in helicopters, 
 and Madsen has excellent sniping skills for long-range weapons, just to name a few. The AI also 
 have their own specific personalities, as you'll hear them conversate between one another, sometimes 
 tossing a few insults. Besides giving orders through the map and the direct order system whilst 
 on the battlefield (which also works terrific) , you can directly take control of your units and 
 do things your way, introducing the action element. It's suprisingly solid and absolute fun to 
 fight alongside your teammates. Controls, whether in action or giving commands, are tight and responsive, 
 and although you may need some experience during the later missions, it has a real pick-up-and-play 
 design to it. Depending on how you want to play the game, you can craft it to your liking.
  
  As any good strategy game does, this one does its story the right way. Thanks to a science 
 fiction writer who created the story, it is compelling and catchy. In the near future, where world 
 peace has finally occured, a Cabal of old-world leaders attempt to take control and its your job 
 to stop them. Information on the Cabal, the new world, and many details such as nanotechnology, 
 soulcatcher, and the Cabal's biological research is revealed in a satisfying way that keeps you 
 hooked. The story on its own right is a good enough reason to get this game.
  
  Graphics are amazing, and they still hold quite well to todays standards. Every object has a shadow, 
 everything is well detailed, explosions look brilliant, smoke is realistic, and the HUD is perfectly 
 detailed allowing you to know what you need to know at the moment. Everything from squads of enemy 
 choppers and tanks to the people running in fear (while being gunned down) looks absolutely fantastic.
 
  
  Sound is a completely amazing other story. 5.1 surround sound systems will get a good workout here, 
 since you can hear every detail around you. If you can't see it, then you'll definitely hear it. 
 Combined with the great graphics and efficient HUD, you will obtain a real good sense of your surroundings 
 at all times.
  
  Overall, this is one of those brilliant gems that apparently no one ever heard of. I was severely 
 disappointed when I saw only 98 ratings and no reviews. Detailed graphics, perfect sound, terrific 
 story, hard-boiled action, and clear thinking strategy have never merged in such a great way before. 
 Not picking up this game is a crime in itself.
  
  Now if you'll excuse me, I'm off to start my third run. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
