-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hoyle Majestic Chess
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/hoylemajesticchess/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 66 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Fluent
Genre: Board
Date:     Aug 14, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hoyle Majestic Chess focuses on those new to the game, and it features a fun and innovative way 
 to learn how to play chess. 

  How do you market a new PC chess program? Chess is chess, and today's programs are all powerful 
 enough to defeat anyone below the level of grandmaster, so the only means by which a publisher 
 can differentiate a new chess offering is in the bells and whistles. While others try to provide 
 every feature imaginable for every level of player, Hoyle Majestic Chess focuses on those new to 
 the game, and it features a fun and innovative way to learn how to play chess.  

          The natural-language advisor is great for explaining what to do next and why.     

 
  There are certain features that you expect in any modern chess program, such as a strong but adjustable 
 AI, a wide variety of 3D chess boards and pieces, online play, and some type of teaching tutorial. 
 Majestic Chess delivers, to various degrees, on all of these. You can play on top-down 2D boards, 
 fully 3D boards, and fixed-perspective boards (2.5D) . You choose from a variety of piece sets, 
 with around eight selections per board style; while not the plethora of choices some programs offer, 
 all of the pieces offered here are actually usable (many fanciful offerings in other chess games 
 are good for screenshots but little else) . The 3D boards are rather unattractive and pixilated, 
 but the fixed-perspective boards provide an attractive 'faux 3D' alternative. The fixed-perspective 
 board options are chosen by selecting 'scenes,' which are environments such as a temple with light 
 flowing in through stained-glass windows, the ruins of a coliseum, or a D&amp; D-style dungeon. 
 Overall, Majestic Chess provides graphics that are pleasing, interesting, and conducive to play. 

  We've come a long way since the days in which the measure of a chess game was whether the AI could 
 put up a decent fight against a moderately skilled player. As in most PC chess games, the AI in 
 Majestic Chess can be set to levels that will provide a serious challenge to any amateur. Playing 
 levels for the AI are set by selecting one of 24 computer opponents. While this is far fewer AI 
 personalities than offered in other chess games, such as Chessmaster 9000, eight more opponents 
 can be unlocked in the 'adventure' portion of the game. The computer opponents' skill levels range 
 from the total klutz, appropriate for chess neophytes, to virtual masters for the masochistic chess 
 aficionado. You can also create new AI players with the custom personality creation module; however, 
 it is limited in the options available for creating a wide range of AI players that truly feel 
 different in playing style (rather than just playing strength) . Also, there's no way to set up 
 an in-game tournament involving you and the AI players.  

  If you prefer the challenge and unpredictability of a human opponent, you can use Majestic Chess' 
 online mode. When we checked the multiplayer server on a weekend, there were only a few players 
 online; however, the game has only been on store shelves for about two weeks. Online play offers 
 few frills, but the basics (such as chat, setting the game-timer options, challenging a player 
 to a game, and actual gameplay) work as advertised.  

  Majestic Chess' strengths and weaknesses become obvious once you get past the standard chess play 
 features. It is clearly not targeted at serious players, nor at those who need a chess program 
 for study purposes or tournament preparation. There are no database functions, which are customary 
 in most programs. While other chess programs now come standard with hundreds of annotated historical 
 games, an excellent resource for any player wanting to both improve and study the styles of past 
 masters, only a dozen annotated historic games are included here. You can watch the AI 'thinking' 
 in an optional window, and the natural-language 'advice' function is as good as or better than 
 that in any other chess program, but there's no true analysis mode available. In short, if you're 
 a moderate-to-good player looking for serious study tools, you should be looking elsewhere, such 
 as Fritz 8 (or Chessmaster 9000 if you want a more mass-market package) .  

          The story-driven chess adventure is a great way for a novice to learn how to play chess. 
     

  So who is Majestic Chess' target audience? The answer becomes clear when you explore the heart 
 of the program, the chess adventure. Majestic Chess is focused on taking the apprentice by the 
 hand and gently and pleasurably introducing him or her to the rules and gameplay of chess. The 
 chess adventure is an innovative chess tutorial in the form of a story-driven adventure game. You 
 are placed on a series of quests, traveling across maps that gradually reveal themselves as you 
 successfully complete each challenge. A trip to a castle may provide a basic tutorial on how certain 
 pieces move. Armed with this knowledge you will be sent on a quest whose success depends on passing 
 a series of tests based on the lessons you've just been given. Complete this quest and you'll be 
 rewarded with chess pieces (which can be added to your "army" and used in later contests) , artifacts 
 to aid you in later challenges, and gold. The further you advance in the adventure, the more advanced 
 the tutorials and the subsequent challenges get. While the adventure module appears geared toward 
 kids, this is a great way for anyone to learn to play chess. The tutorials and tests themselves 
 aren't really that different from tutorials you may see in other programs, but the lighthearted 
 and whimsical quest format ties everything together and provides an enjoyable motivator to move 
 to just one more lesson and challenge in order to advance the story. By the time you finish the 
 entire chess adventure, you'll be well grounded in the basics of the game and able to give the 
 lower-level AI players a good run for their money.  

  Majestic Chess doesn't have 100 different chess boards or Lord of the Rings or Star Wars chess 
 sets. It doesn't offer you a couple of hundred opposing AI personalities. There are no database 
 functions, nor deep analysis modes. But with the chess adventure, Majestic Chess does offer the 
 best way to introduce any kid (or adult who would prefer lessons presented in an unorthodox and 
 enjoyable manner) to the game of chess.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DroidSmuggler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Are you a casual chess player? Do you enjoy classic RPG games and other High Fantasy Adventures? 
 New to the game and intimidated by its complexity? Then this is probably the chess game you've 
 been waiting for. Having never even heard of Majestic Chess I actually stumbled upon it a couple 
 weeks ago while perusing the local bargain bin. There's usually a chess game or two there, along 
 with the usual assortment of PopCap style games and solitaire mega-packs. But what really grabbed 
 my attention were the screenshots showing the tiny Knight on a vast world map, dotted with various 
 fantasy like structures. You see, what Hoyle did with this (which is rather brilliant) is build 
 an entire adventure campaign around what is actually a very well done chess tutor. You start off 
 in the First chapter on a quest to defeat the mysterious but evil Faceless Knight. Your king then 
 travels across the land, meeting various characters along the way, with each one passing on essential 
 knowledge or challenging you to test the knowledge you've just acquired. But you can't go just 
 anywhere at the beginning, you've got to unlock new areas by completing mini-quests, and when you 
 do a fog-of-war lifts to reveal the next area. Over time you'll earn gold, important chess pieces, 
 and special artifacts that let you do things like take back a move, or get advice on what what 
 your next move should be. At some point along the way you may have the opportunity to spend your 
 hard earned gold on additional artifacts that are sure to come in handy toward the end of the chapter. 
 This all ties together in that the goal for each chapter is to work your way to the main villain 
 who awaits your arrival and a full blown game of actual chess. But before you reach the main evil 
 character you've got to build up your army by collecting (or in some cases purchasing) the necessary 
 chess pieces to complete your army. Naturally these encounters get increasingly harder as you progress, 
 which is really when the magical artifacts come in handy. The brilliance of the way all this is 
 structured is how even though the end chess games get increasingly difficult, your chess acumen 
 is slowly increasing as well - through the various trials that must be passed along the way.
  
  I'm not too in touch with the other chess games out there, but this might very well be one 
 of the first chess games to incorporate an adventure quest in this way; and Hoyle has done a superb 
 job of it. I'm finding myself enjoying the challenge of passing each trial, just to earn that much 
 needed Rook or other critical piece. It's so easy to get sucked into the challenges and overall 
 adventure that you practically forget you're really learning how to play chess. And believe me, 
 after working your way through the first few chapters, you'll have acquired some solid chess knowledge 
 through this seemingly light hearted adventure game.
  
  Always a big fan of details I love the way each small building animates when you click on it, and 
 the care that went into each of the well designed world maps. Even the music and sound effects 
 are appropriate and pleasant. You can tell the creators of this game have a genuine love for classic 
 fantasy games in the way they creatively inject humor into many of the encounters, especially when 
 you pitifully lose at one of the challenges.
  
  Outside of the Adventure mode is a very well done single player game. In this mode you choose the 
 AI difficulty, pick your avatar (if you wish) , and select one of the many excellent themed settings 
 where the game board will reside. My personal favorite is the cathedral; others may appreciate 
 one of the dungeons or the ice cavern. There are several others as well.
  
  At its core Majestic Chess is a solid chess trainer that's also masterfully wrapped in a nicely 
 done fantasy adventure package. The result is a one of a kind chess game that not only greatly 
 improves your knowledge and skill at this ancient game, but lets you have a really fun time doing 
 it. Casual chess players, or those who've been wanting to improve their skill level, would do well 
 to give this one a shot. By the way, it makes for an excellent laptop game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrotondigray
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2003 8:30 pm PT
Review:  As a chess neophyte yet veteran RPGer, my purchase of Hoyle Majestic Chess didnt leave me feeling 
 rooked. The adventure mode is whats fresh here: ten chapters of D&D-styled exploration which immerses 
 you in chess tutorials, challenges and human-computer play. Artful graphics, solid story text, 
 decent soundscapes and nifty artifacts make up for a choppy storyline (dont expect anything 
 remotely novelistic a la Baldurs Gate) . Result: Im a much better chess player. OK, better than 
 I was anyway.
  
  The single-player mode is well-designed with a wide range of functionality (I particularly like 
 the move-by-move write-ups on famous historical games) . Solving computer problems (i. e. what 
 should you do in a specific situation) is a heck of a lot easier to follow than in a book.
  
  Havent tried the multiplayer yet but then again I should shed my ranking of Pathetic before 
 I sign on.
  
  Great value ($30 retail) , very new product (late Summer 2003) , super production values.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
