-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hulk
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hulk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 421 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Universal Interactive
Developer: Radical Ent.
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     May 27, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For all that The Hulk misses on, the game gets enough of it right to tip the scales in its favor. 
 

  With the current rash of comic book movies sweeping through Hollywood, the video game tie-in has 
 practically become an inevitability. With Ang Lee's big-screen interpretation of  The Hulk  just 
 around the corner, VU Games and Radical Entertainment have stepped up with a video game counterpart. 
 At its core, The Hulk is a simple beat-'em-up action game that delivers an enjoyable comic-book-style 
 experience with plenty of wanton destruction, as well as its fair share of flaws.  

          The Hulk is a simple beat-'em-up action game that delivers an enjoyable comic-book-style 
 experience.     

  Though it's a tie-in with the upcoming Universal motion picture of the same name, the game pays 
 only passing respect to the movie's storyline, instead borrowing elements from both the film and 
 the comic book series to create an entirely new adventure. The story it weaves, which pulls in 
  The Hulk  regulars like Betty Ross, General Ryker, and the Leader, isn't terribly cohesive or 
 compelling. The story is just a means to an end, the end being a series of scenarios where the 
 Hulk can do some serious smashing.  

  As the Hulk, you'll essentially be running from one end of a level to another, beating on a variety 
 of opponents, smashing through walls, and generally running amok. You'll occasionally run into 
 sections where you'll have to target something specific before you can advance, but for the most 
 part, the action is simple, fast-paced, and fairly brutal. The Hulk has at his disposal a small 
 yet potent arsenal of attacks. There's the simple punch attack, which you can tap for some quick 
 three-hit combos and hold in to charge up your punches. The charge-up effect is pretty cool, especially 
 when you use it mid-jump, as it will leave you hanging in the air for a couple of beats before 
 you launch toward your target. You can mix up the three-hit combos a bit by using the Hulk's hand-clap 
 attack, which creates a sonic boom that can knock down and disorient enemies. The Hulk is also 
 able to grab enemies and knock them around a bit, or use them as projectiles. Actually, the Hulk 
 can grab just about anything and use it as a melee or projectile weapon, and this ability is complemented 
 by the game's semi-destructible environments. You can knock down pillars, break pipes, or bust 
 straight through walls, which gives you plenty of debris to use against your enemies. The Hulk 
 also has a rage meter that fills up as you give and receive damage. Once the meter fills, the Hulk 
 gets even angrier, which temporarily gives his punches more wallop and allows you to trigger some 
 special attacks. The game has joypad and keyboard support, and though a good joypad with analog 
 support gives you a bit more precision, the gameplay in The Hulk isn't that exacting, and using 
 the keyboard alone works surprisingly well.  

  The gameplay does an excellent job of making you feel like you  are  the Hulk. Simply jumping creates 
 huge cracks in the floor, and your fighting will leave the environments in ruins. You also dish 
 out absurd amounts of damage on your enemies, whose greatest strength seems to be numbers. Indeed, 
 the game will throw a virtually never-ending stream of enemies at you, including regular army men, 
 gamma dogs, a variety of gamma-enhanced soldiers, and even some anti-Hulk robots. If you do clear 
 a room, it only takes a couple of seconds for more enemies to pour in, so your usual plan of attack 
 is to beat back the opposition just enough to move on to the next area. Unfortunately, the game 
 breaks up the simple-but-satisfying Hulk action with sequences where you play as the Hulk's alter 
 ego, Bruce Banner. These sequences blend basic stealth action with some crate pushing and switch 
 flipping, as well as the hot new gameplay mechanic for 2003, the fake-hacking minigame. In The 
 Hulk, the minigame gives you two strings of numbers and 20 seconds to make them match up by switching 
 the positions of two numbers at a time, which is neither challenging nor particularly fun. The 
 Bruce Banner sequences in The Hulk really bring the whole experience down, as they aren't as engaging 
 or as fully developed as the pure Hulk action sequences.  

  The story mode in The Hulk clocks in at well under 10 hours, and though the Hulk sections are good 
 fun, the sheer simplicity of the gameplay will probably leave you pleased that it didn't go on 
 any longer. Though, if you want to deal more damage as the Hulk, the game also offers a survival 
 mode, a time attack mode, and the aptly named Hulk Smash! mode, which gives you a train yard full 
 of destructible objects and a time limit.  

          The action is simple, fast-paced, and fairly brutal.     

  The most striking visual 
 aspect of The Hulk is the way the characters are rendered. The game uses a sort of modified cel-shading 
 effect that gives the characters a distinct comic book feel, but with a darker, grittier edge. 
 Whether they're in cutscenes or in-engine, the characters look sharp and move in an exaggerated 
 but believable fashion. The environments, which are primarily indoor locations like office buildings, 
 laboratories, military compounds, and underground bases, look clean and sharp. After a while, though, 
 all these federally funded compounds start running together, and the structural differences between 
 the government base at Alcatraz and the Leader's underground lair are mostly nominal. Make no mistake, 
 there are some cool set pieces, though the game's coolest moments happen early on, and it seems 
 like the developers started running out of ideas as they got nearer and nearer to the end. The 
 game is pretty sound technically, and it maintains a fairly smooth frame rate throughout. We tested 
 the game on a mid-level PC and a high-end PC, and it seemed to perform well, though we did notice 
 on the mid-level PC that the pronounced shading effect was missing from the characters. This took 
 away some of the game's comic-book-like visual style, though the characters still looked pretty 
 good.  

  Certain elements of the game's sound design, including the voice work by actor Eric Bana, who plays 
 Bruce Banner in the movie, and the variety of appropriate crunches you'll hear when smashing stuff, 
 lend an extra level of weight to the whole experience. Other elements, like the repetitive cries 
 of your enemies, the average soundtrack, and the underwhelming roars of the Hulk, don't really 
 add to or detract from the experience. We did, however, run into some sound bugs on both our test 
 systems that  did  detract from the experience, including loud, horribly distorted sound samples 
 and in-game speech that would regularly cut off mid-sentence. These issues seemed to crop up randomly, 
 and though they aren't persistent enough to ruin the experience altogether, they're certainly noticeable. 

  For all that The Hulk misses on, like the repetitive level designs and the clumsy stealth action 
 sequences, the game gets enough of it right to tip the scales in its favor. The action sequences 
 are fun, but the combat is simple enough and the story mode is short enough that the game's lasting 
 appeal is limited, unless you're a huge fan of  The Hulk . Yet while it won't take you very long, 
 it'll still be a largely satisfying experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: huladog123
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  In Hulk, you're immediately immersed in action in the very first level, which is a clever way to 
 start a game. But with a confusing plot and limited combat, is the Hulk really incredible at all? 
 The correct answer is no.
  
  Just to get our facts straight, this game is not based on the 2003 film of the same name. And frankly, 
 the story that replaces the movie isn't all that great. You are forced to make assumptions on the 
 backgrounds of the characters that are introduced, because the game lacks the explanations on who 
 they really are and how they became that way. The story unfolds and makes more sense as you progress 
 through the game, but the ending is a confusing cliff-hanger that makes no sense at all.
  
  The actual gameplay itself is somewhat fun. You can smash, crush, or at least damage practically 
 any object in your path, and your puny enemies don't stand a chance against your mighty fists. 
 However, your "paths" are very limited, because the game consists of preset levels that offer very 
 minor amounts of free-roaming. The combat is limited also; it consists mainly of punch/kick combos, 
 slams, and sonic thunder-claps. And even though new enemies are introduced as you move along through 
 the game, you end up fighting the same enemies around every corner. Soldiers, gamma dogs, gamma 
 soldiers, mechs, tanks, and the occasional helicopter are the only non-boss enemies that stand 
 in your way.
  
  In most levels, fighting isn't even necessary; all you have to do is simply get to the end of the 
 level by overcoming the obstacles that prevent you from reaching it. This shows that the main aspect 
 of the game is using the repetitive combat to beat your enemies to death, which really gives the 
 game no depth or substance at all. In some levels, you play as Bruce Banner in his human form. 
 These levels require you to use more logic and strategy to maintain stealth, which is actually 
 a pretty good idea. However, sometimes these Bruce Banner levels take a little too much time to 
 complete and become boring as a result, while others are ridiculously short and pointless. In each 
 boss fight you are pinned up against gamma-infected freaks of less-than-equal strength, and you 
 use the same moves to defeat them as you use to defeat lesser enemies on the battlefield. Overall, 
 the battles are simple and unexciting.
  
  The graphics are good, but there are still some issues that are quite noticeable. The bodies of 
 the Hulk, soldiers, and gamma-infected enemies are a little bulky, and there isn't enough detail 
 in the colors of their exteriors. Frame rate problems pop up now and then, especially when you 
 destroy an object or a wall, which basically is just disintegrating them into thin air with your 
 punches. In addition, movement seems a little stiff and out of whack at times. The sound is okay; 
 the sound effects are nice, but there is practically no script at all, and thus voices are seldom 
 heard. The grunts from the Hulk and the growls from packs of gamma dogs quickly become irritating. 
 Surprisingly, there isn't any dialogue between the soldiers, who for some reason decide to take 
 on the Hulk one-on-one instead of working as a team.
  
  All in all, Hulk is a short, limited game that deserves no more than a rent. It's worth playing 
 through once or twice just for fun, but you'll get bored with it quickly if you play it excessively. 
 Please be mindful of the narrowness of the gameplay and plot so that you make the right decision 
 when choosing to try this game out or not. Hulk isn't a bad game at all, but it certainly isn't 
 in my top 10 either.
  
  Score: 6.8
  Grade: B-
  Preference: Fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first superhero games I've played, so I did'nt know what to expect from it.
 
  But what I did get was a plain, action-packed game, which does'nt quite bore you.
  The story is quite simple: A scientist you previously trusted turned on you, absorbed your powers 
 to become a super-vallain himself. The name of that super-villain turned out to be Ravage. He promised 
 he will cure Dr. Banner but instead look what happened !Now it's your job to smash your way through 
 enemies including mere U. S military enforcers, gamma-radiated freaks, advanced gamma-radiated freaks, gamma-radiated 
 dogs and hounds, and a couple of bosses along the way.
  The controls are quite simple, one button for grabbing, one for punching, one for jumping and the 
 other for a gamma blast (as Hulk) or accessing consoles (as Banner) . While playing as Banner, your primary 
 objective is to get past security unseen while as Hulk, your objective is to get past security by 
 making them wish they never saw you. On your way, you can smash everything in your way. A couple of 
 bosses can be quite a pain like Mad-man and Ravage himself, but otherwise the others are quite simple 
 to deal with.
  At the end of the day, you win overcoming tremendous odds and thinking maybe you should have bought 
 the other game on the shelf, cause sometimes this one can become repetitive and you wind up with 
 a sore finger and watery eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  long time ago i got a suprise a HULK game.. and i was so exited to play it.. so first of all im 
 talking about THE HULK FROM 2003 and not the new HULK from 2008 the new game was so ugly so boring 
 so lame and just horrible that after i deleted this game.. i went to the HULK 2003 game.. the old 
 school awesome game!!
  
  this is my review - THE HULK 2003:
  
  so now lets start talk about this awesome game.. even for 2003 this game is way better than the 
 new hulk of 2008... why? becuase it got so many good things
  so lets start good and the bad:
  
  the good:
  1) graphics: great graphic really good.. not 
 like the games of 2005-2008 but still the graphic is nice
  
  2) sounds: the incredible sounds.. roar of the hulk screaming punches and more.. love it simply 
 awesome sound track
  
  3) story: a great story the HULK 2003 has a long and great story.. (in the hulk 2008 you dont have 
 story) \
  
  4) gameplay: the gameplay is great!! you have great super moves like super punch, super jump, super 
 rage and you can throw your enemys so far to the sky its awesome
  
  the bad: theres no free play... thats bad.. i mean when you want to play the hulk you got to think 
 on a great desturction game.. in this game you have a great story mod with action but no free play 
 in the streets.. thats the only bad thing about this game...
  
  if you see this HULK game buy it.. its worth it but if you see the INCREDIBLE HULK of 2008 remember 
 "dont buy" the HULK 2003 is way better than the new one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mann_Slaughter
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game, and what can I say...?
  
  Monumental waste of time!
  
  The first few times you grab a soldier by the throat, and face-plant him through the concrete is 
 funny as Hell!
  
  Do it 50 times, and you won't even chuckle...
  
  Do it 1,000 times, and you'll be lucky if you see this game through 'til the end.
  
  BORING!
 
  
  The lack of a "free look" camera is incredibly frustrating. In some cases you need to target a 
 specific enemy, or item, but without being able to freely rotate the camera to see exactly WHAT 
 you've targeted you're playing blind.
  
  And the audio...
  
  Everything except certain characters sounds muffled. The Hulk's growls were lower than any other 
 sound in the game, and his vocals should have been the loudest! And the first time I heard Bruce 
 Banner's voice I thought, "Someone's doing a piss-poor impression of Eric Bana." I couldn't believe 
 when I read the credits that Eric Bana actually lent his voice to this.
  
  I rated this game a 5, but ONLY because I love Marvel superheroes. If you're not a fan, it would 
 probably be best you stay away from this one.
  
  -Slaughter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMotherBrain
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The Hulk is a game that could've excelled in so many ways, but instead is plagued by common errors. 
 An uninteresting premise, boring gameplay, repetitive level design, and bland graphics fill the 
 entire game. 
  
  You are the Hulk, a colossal green monster with immense strength. As the Hulk, you go on a journey 
 to stop a scientist (your former partner) from creating an army of mutants. Along the way, you'll 
 encounter your love-interest as well as some famous villains from the comics. 
  
  The number of colors onscreen rarely goes above five, and the cell-shaded look doesn't make up 
 for it. Hulk does have a somewhat unique look, but you'll focus more on what's wrong with it over 
 what's done correctly.
  
  Sound design in Hulk is horrendous. The NPC chatter, fighting sounds, ambiance, voice acting, everything 
 is of very poor quality. Everything sounds like it was recorded with a $5 microphone.
  
  The gameplay is simple. Run and punch. There are probably a grand total of five different attacks 
 you can do, and that's it. The boss fights are easy, and are all overly simplistic. The stealth 
 sequences aren't done very well, and require more trial and error than anything else. 
  
  There are a few things that The Hulk does do right. The hacking mini-games are pretty fun in comparison 
 to the actual game, and there are some interesting enemies to fight. Throwing soldiers off of buildings 
 never gets old...
  
  The Hulk is a boring game for bored people. If you have absolutely nothing to do, this might be 
 worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I started reading The Incredible Hulk comics from 1972, when I was so young that I did not even 
 understand the English. Then came the TV series in the late seventies. Disappointed. Then Ang Lee 
 translated the Hulk into his movie. Again disappointed. It was only natural for me to pick up the 
 game, when it came out. Well what do you know; disappointed.
  From Hulk, I would have expected a game with a big open environment and really huge actions. Instead 
 what I got was limited environment like the DOS games of the mid nineties and not so happy with 
 the enemies. Instead of the comic book, this game goes loyal to the Ang Lee moviewhich I think 
 was a wrong decision. Because the movie was an introduction to Hulk, while the game could have 
 simply focused on the strange and strong opponents that Hulk has in the comic books.
  I felt that the makers did not put their heart into the game or the original character. Hulk could 
 have been a perfectly different hero in computer games because of his unlimited strength and short 
 coming of intellectual capability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgamer159
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  this is a good game but i do agree with other people that smashing stuff does get boring and that 
 the banner levels suck first things first...
  
  the gameplay is very fun at first but then the same moves and all the stuff get boring but honestly 
 i dont mind smashing things and blowing them up for an hour or 2. the same moves get boring but 
 they are cool. although the banner levels suck the developers put them in there to keep the games 
 stroyline in hand and to keep it from just a regualr punch punch game.
  
  the graphics well during gameplay theyre not the best but good enough to fit the game, during the 
 cutscenes though everyone looks as if they are wrapped in saran wrap or something very shiny the 
 explosions are very nice all the physics of stuff falling and exploding ! obviously the makers 
 put some time into that the sound is pretty good with the soldiers screaming with terror lol! but 
 they couldve put some better music
  
  value i dont really care -- if you have the game... you have the game too bad for you
  
  overall 
 the game is fun banner levels arent because they are very hard and banner cant fight the game itself 
 all put together is just a nice game to come home to and just smash a few things. (storyline too 
 short though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerzrulez
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  The Hulk is a good game because you get to beat up lots and lots of soldiers up and a few bosses. 
 But in the story mode you sometimes have to be bruce which is kinda boring to play as. When you 
 turn into Hulk you will have fun beating people up. The graphics in the game are very good because 
 the envionments are destructable and look good. The sound of this game are good when you beat people 
 up but the voice acting sounds kinda bad. The value of this game is good because you will have 
 fun beating people up. I recommend you get this game if you like violent games such as the grand 
 theft auto games or the dynasty warrior games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The Hulk is a good game to start with. You get to run around as the hulking behemoth (don't you 
 wish everyone said that more often?) known far and wide as the Incredible Hulk. The first level 
 is one of the finest in computer game history, smashing a gas station apart and bustin' heads in 
 classic Hulk fashion. But as I've said before, though the Hulk is a hulkin' heap of fun (pardons 
 for the cheesy wordplay) , it gets old after a while. And, as friends of mine can attest, I am constantly 
 remarking in a whiny sort of a way that the levels as Dr. Banner are near impossible if you don't 
 know exactly what to do.
  The Hulk has nice cartoony animantion and features voice work by Eric Bana (one of my personal 
 favorite actors) and lots of grunts and "bleeaahs" from the Hulk. Finally, the gameplay is solid 
 with a nice little system of jumping and two kinds of whackos to lay down on the bad guys. All 
 in all, if you can get this game cheap get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  Destructive game but in general game is sucks..... how long you will destruct without any sense... so 
 game is not just worth of it! Gameplay in some point makes sense when you get back to human apperance 
 but when this green dude comes, just f*#k them all with your power. :) ) )
  Graphicaly it is not so immpresive, sound also... dogs in the game is good enemies.. fighting with 
 them is the plain fun.. but with humans which is in half size of your hip, man go to hell! I would 
 not waste my time for such a pitty game. I havent got any word to say to reach minimum required 
 length of text in review. Here you go I think it exceeds 100 words.. yeahhhhhh!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larrydude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  The Game is good but lacks in gameplay. Because of poor a storyline and lbad camera views this game 
 is a loser.
  
  System specs
   100% DirectX-compliant 3-D video card with 32 MB VRAM
   Microsoft Windows 
 98/ME/2000/XP operating system
   Pentium III 700 MHz processor or Athlon processor
   192 MB RAM
   DirectX 
 8.1 (included)
   100% DirectX 8.1 or higher compatible sound card and drivers
   Quad Speed CD-ROM drive
   100% Microsoft-compatible mouse, keyboard
   100% Windows 
 98/ME/2000/XP-compatible gamepad (optional)
   At least 1.5 GB of uncompressed hard disk space for game files, plus an additional 200MB for 
 Windows swap file
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  To coincide with the new film based on the Marvel Comic hero, VU Interactive and Radical Entertainment 
 present a new PC game based upon the familiar green behemoth, The Hulk.
  
  You play Bruce Banner, a nuclear physicist plagued by the effects of an experiment gone wrong. 
 The result of this scientific meddling is Bruces Jekyll and Hyde existence, where any provocation 
 can lead to the rise of the beast he holds within him.
  
  The games story is separate and distinct from the film and features some of the comic book characters, 
 like Half-Life and the Leader, who are the typical megalomaniacal bad guys bent on acquiring Bruces 
 abilities for their own purposes. While there is a story in The Hulk, it really isnt anything 
 substantial or important to the game. Suffice it to say that some bad guys have done some stuff 
 that Bruce doesnt like, so hes got to take em out.
  
  It is the aforementioned fluctuation between the calm and irritated Bruce that sets the tone for 
 The Hulk. The game consists of two modes: stealth and out right anarchy. You must use stealth in 
 the few missions where you play the unprovoked Bruce, who possesses a relative weakness in his 
 normal state.
  
  Frankly, Bruce doesnt have much success with brute force tactics. He is no match for the armed 
 soldiers and altered creatures that patrol most of the installations through which he must navigate, 
 though he can attack when in a tight spot. This is unadvisable in most cases, as alarms sound immediately 
 upon being spotted and enemy reinforcements are usually just around the corner.
  
  Missions involving Bruce are typically quite short and require one to sneak and scurry between 
 crates or other convenient cover. When not cowering in some corner, Bruces missions will have 
 you dealing with simple puzzle-solving, code breaking, and crate moving puzzles that are of little 
 challenge to the majority of gamers. When all is said and done, Bruces missions ultimately only 
 exist as brief respites in between Hulk missions.
  
  Thankfully, you play the Hulk through about 90% of the game. As the Hulk, your main job is to destroy 
 anything that gets in your way; and you will destroy stuff. Practically everything you see that 
 isnt ground or wall is destructible and, potentially, a handy weapon. Youll find objects like 
 explosive barrels, parked cars, fallen columns and stones, even enemies themselves, can become 
 useful weapons against opponents or obstacles.
  
  Speaking of opponents, youll find The Hulks array of normal and enhanced soldiers present quite 
 a challenge. This is so, not necessarily because of their individual strengths, but because of 
 their sheer numbers. Wave after wave after wave of enemies are thrown at you throughout the course 
 of the game.
  
  This can become quite a challenge in later missions where enhanced soldiers with energy weapons 
 are common and quite lethal. Though you might think it somewhat out of character for the Hulk to 
 flee a fight, it is required that you do so in later missions where large waves of soldiers produce 
 forces beyond even the Hulks ability to control.
  
  The Hulk comes with his own set of punches, grabs, slams, and throws that do some serious damage 
 to the unfortunate souls that dare to tangle with him. Youll even find some handy combos that 
 can take care of lesser enemies quickly and without too much effort on your part. While the available 
 catalogue of moves is small, it nonetheless serves its purpose well and never fails to appropriately 
 handle even the toughest baddies.
  
  The Hulk also has a rage meter that, when filled, sets off the Hulks rage mode. This mode, marked 
 by a roar and a nice green glow, gives the Hulk an even more damaging power to inflict maximum 
 destruction on anything in sight, for a limited amount of time.
  
  The Hulks graphics are relatively good. The game utilizes a kind of cell shaded animation to create 
 a comic book feel to the characters. This effect is especially noticeable in cut scenes. Most of 
 the environments dont look half as good. Theres nothing that really stands out as bad looking 
 or noticeably out of place with most of the level design. Its just that many levels have a tendency 
 to be repetitive as the game progresses.
  
  The vibrancy of the characters and animations make up for the blandness of the environments, however, 
 and most characters look quite detailed when rendered by a modest system. The neat particle effects 
 that result from the breakage of a hefty door or a stone across the head of an enemy are also quite 
 fun to look at.
  
  The sound in The Hulk is somewhat wanting, however. Most sound effects, such as the rumble of the 
 Hulks slams or the blast of enemy weapons fire comes across fine. You will find some unfortunate 
 sound casualties, like the musical score, which is almost non-existent and barely noticeable in 
 its current muted state.
  
  Things like the Hulks roar and certain other sounds also come across a bit too quiet. There is 
 some nice voiceover work to be heard, including the voice of Eric Bana, the star of the upcoming 
 Hulk movie, as the voice of Bruce Banner.
  
  Control wise, The Hulk is acceptable, yet a bit too indicative of most console control schemes 
 for this reviewers taste. There is no mouse support, but the keyboard does do an acceptable job 
 alone. A gamepad seems to be the best way to handle The Hulk. Be sure to have a decent controller 
 to make the best use of the games gamepad control features.
  
  Overall, The Hulk is a fun game, requiring little time and a minimum of effort to figure out. Its 
 unique look and genuine Hulk destructibility certainly fits the mold of what a Hulk game should 
 be. That, coupled with the games nice array of extras from the upcoming movie and a more than 
 reasonable professionalism in its design, make The Hulk a game comic fans and novices can both 
 enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game is a tricky one , because i'm not sure if it's better than HCTP.
  Firstly the gameplay is better , wrestlers move much more realisticly than before. The addition 
 of mini-games prior to your match starting seemed a good idea at first but after a few matches 
 they just irritated me.
  Then the matchmodes. There are all the usual match modes : TLC , Cage , Hell in a cell and the 
 Elimination Chamber. Although some good match modes have been omitted such as a recently used Casket 
 , Buried Alive and Barbed-Wire Steel Cage Matches. Now why the first 2 were left out is beyond 
 me. Meanwhile Bra And Panties makes an (un) welcome return. (Does anyone actually play these matches?)
 
  The season mode is a huge disapiontment. It's far too short , has a story that is so on the rails 
 its not even funny. You have little or no control of your character , except whether he is a heel 
 or a face. Several titles have been omitted from the season. The voice-overs are attrocious and 
 worst of all the good work of HCTP edit rosters feature has been left out. Meaning you can only 
 have one CAW in the season at a time.
  Onto the CAWS themselves. They are an improvement on HCTP graphically but there is still a lot 
 of work to be done in this department. THQ have finally done something about the music by inputing 
 licensed music from real bands which is a welcome change from being stuck with the annoying original 
 music.
  Entrances for CAWS are good and bad at the same time. New one sinclude Hulk hogan , Steve Austin 
 and the Ultimate Warrior (All good) but many are just oppostie entrances of WWE stars eg , heel 
 and face alternatives. (Another wasted opportunity)
  The introduction of a Create-A-PPV is a welcome addition annd can't really be faulted , although 
 personally i would like to see more arena's available.
  Create-A-Belt is a huge waste of time. Truth is most belts look ridiculous and you can't create 
 Tag Belts to defend. however with a bit more work this area could become a huge plus.
  Now the Red Herring of the game. the Online mode. Such a waste of time because you can only play 
 a single match or a Bra And Panties match. It's almost as if no effort went in to this part of 
 the game at all.
  The challenge mode provides a welcome distraction from the monotomy of season mode giving you the 
 chance to unlock several legends.
  As for the legends it's difficult tocriticise here especially considering they finally put Bret 
 Hart into the game but possibl future additions must include Ultimate Warrior , Hulk Hogan and 
 Stone Cold.
  The commentary is hit and miss. It's good that both JR and King (RAW) and Mickeal Cole and Tazz 
 (SmackDown!) are in the game for their respective programs but i've always been of the mindset. 
 If your gonna do something at least do it right. And unfortunately like so many parts of this game 
 it misses it's chance. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
