-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hundred Swords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/hundredswords/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 21, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.7, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 39 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Smilebit
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 4, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game's unique style and epic story, along with its low retail price, make it worth checking 
 out for anyone looking to try something different. 

  Real-time strategy games are more common than any other kind of PC game. Over the last five years, 
 countless games have tried to combine strategic decision making with elements of pure action. Some 
 real-time strategy games, including classics such as Westwood's Command &amp; Conquer and Blizzard's 
 Starcraft, became so popular that they were ported from the PC to various video game consoles, 
 where they met with still more success. Games like these clearly inspired Hundred Swords, a simple 
 but distinctive game that was originally released a year ago in Japan for the now-defunct Sega 
 Dreamcast console. Created by Smilebit, a company known for its inspired graffiti game Jet Grind 
 Radio, Hundred Swords is now available in the US, for the PC, in English, and for a retail price 
 of less than $20. If for no other reason, Hundred Swords deserves credit for being the first of 
 its kind -- a PC port of a real-time strategy game originally designed for consoles.           This 
 real-time strategy game was originally designed for consoles.    

  Hundred Swords isn't the greatest real-time strategy game you'll ever play. Its mechanics are simplistic, 
 its controls can be cumbersome, and the pathfinding for the game's units is dreadful -- you move 
 units not individually but in regiments, yet individual units will get cut off from their groups 
 and get stuck behind various obstacles all the time. Hundred Swords has a few interface problems. 
 You can't group-select regiments but must order them individually, though you can set waypoints. 
 And though you can quickly jump to any of your regiments by clicking on the portraits of their 
 commanders, you can't move your units by clicking on the minimap. So there's a lot of unnecessary 
 scrolling and clicking. Also, the artificial intelligence of the computer opponent isn't anything 
 special, and in fact, most of the scenarios are completely scripted anyway. Fortunately, your units 
 will at least fend for themselves if left to their own devices. You can't save your progress in 
 the middle of a battle, but the battles generally aren't that tough.   

  The gameplay itself requires a basic grasp of tactics -- you'll control a few different types of 
 units, including cavalry, infantry, archers, and mages, and for the most part, each of these is 
 strong against one particular unit type but weak against another. Some missions are purely tactical, 
 forcing you to make due with a limited number of units. Other missions involve a base-building 
 system, where you'll quickly set up two kinds of refineries that mine two different resources, 
 with which you'll build a barracks and then recruit more generals who can in turn draft more troops. 
 Once you get accustomed to the pathfinding problems, and start using the game's waypoint system 
 to compensate for them, you'll find that some of the missions can actually be rather fun -- they're 
 fast-paced, the unit types are well balanced, and you can conduct battles between more than a hundred 
 units simultaneously.   

  What Hundred Swords does rather remarkably well is weave an epic tale that creates a really great 
 context for the gameplay. Featuring dozens of beautifully hand-painted scenes and character portraits, 
 Hundred Swords effectively draws you into its fantasy world during the cutscenes between battles. 
 The game's actual plot can be hard to follow -- it's about a boy king and his role in a brutal civil 
 war between the various clans of his divided nation. But the attention to detail evident in the 
 game's artwork and character design, and the way the game unabashedly takes itself seriously, is 
 actually impressive. If you've ever played a great Japanese role-playing game, such as some of 
 the games in the Final Fantasy series, then you'll have an idea of what to expect from Hundred 
 Swords' characters and storytelling.   

  The story unfolds over the course of Hundred Swords' campaign mode, which consists of a series 
 of linked scenarios that must be completed in order. Before each mission, you'll be given a number 
 of gameplay tips that serve as a tutorial for the task at hand. These are helpful, especially considering 
 Hundred Swords comes packaged with the shortest manual in PC gaming history -- it's zero pages long! 
 There's text on the inside of the front and back cover explaining the basics of the gameplay, and 
 that's it. Fortunately, the game is easy to figure out, thanks in part to the way the campaign 
 is structured. New units and elements of play are introduced very gradually, and they're always 
 explained completely and concisely. Since Hundred Swords was designed for console gamers, it doesn't 
 assume that you've ever played a real-time strategy game before.   

  Hundred Swords also includes more than a dozen stand-alone single scenarios, which range in complexity 
 and difficulty and make for a fine diversion from the core campaign mode. In these, you can play 
 as some of the other factions you'll encounter in the campaign, all of which are functionally similar 
 but do seem a lot different, mostly because of the way they look. There's also a multiplayer mode 
 that allows you to battle with up to three other players over a LAN. Internet play is supported, 
 but only via a direct TCP/IP connection. Though the missions in Hundred Swords are all pretty basic, 
 and every battle takes place on a rather small and plain rectangular map of some sort, there's 
 no mission editor included with the game.           The incredible artwork found throughout Hundred 
 Swords sets it apart.    

  Aside from the hand-painted artwork, Hundred Swords looks crude. Though it uses a fully 3D engine, 
 the game is locked at a low 640x480 resolution and uses washed-out colors and plain textures. At 
 least the system requirements are low. The default isometric camera view is zoomed in rather close 
 to your units, and a fogging effect severely limits how much of your surroundings you can see at 
 any given point. You can optionally switch to a bird's-eye view, but from this angle, your units 
 are all indistinguishable from each other. Fortunately, the minimap helpfully distinguishes your 
 units from those of the enemy -- you'll have to refer to it often.   

  Hundred Swords doesn't sound particularly special, though the audio works fine. The musical score 
 sounds tinny, but it fits the theme of the game well. The sound effects during battles consist 
 of the sorts of sword slashes and arrow whooshes you'd probably expect, along with some rather 
 odd-sounding synthetic screams from the various units.   

  The fact that it doesn't look, sound, or even play all that great means you couldn't wholeheartedly 
 recommend Hundred Swords to fans of conventional real-time strategy games. But the game's unique 
 style and epic story, along with its low retail price, make it worth checking out for anyone who's 
 played and enjoyed other Japanese games or anyone looking to try something different.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  The assessment of the GameSpot reviewer pretty much hits it dead on. Btw I heard that this originally 
 appeared in the arcades before making it to the DC and then getting a PC port - most likely the 
 reason why the maps are so brief.
  
  It's been years since I actually played this, but I still remember the main characters - the story 
 is pretty good and the characters interesting, although I hesitate to say that they're developed 
 to much depth except for a handful. The cutscenes are just beautiful, and to me, are the main reason 
 for playing this game. Unfortunately, the engine itself is pretty lacklustre. Mechanics are pretty 
 basic and units measure up against each other in a pretty much rock-paper-scissors basis.
  
  Apparently there WAS mission branching AND custom tailoring certain skills by experience gained 
 in maps in the original Japanese DC version - why the PC port was butchered like it was is a mystery. 
 That alone burns me, since the story in what was left is still pretty good. To be able to know 
 what happens if you made different choices - bah, I bet it's down to the usual suspect: money.
 
  
  Still, it's a pretty entertaining romp if you can handle the impatience of getting through the 
 battles - I didn't really enjoy them THAT much, and I have a pretty high tolerance level (I'm a 
 retro gamer and put up with a lot of crap) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
