-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hype - The Time Quest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hypethetimequest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 52 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Playmobil Int.
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hype is a polished and enjoyable 3D action-adventure. 

 Hype - The Time Quest is Ubi Soft's attempt to produce a version of Zelda: Ocarina of Time for the 
 PC. That's not a cynical interpretation of the company's motives; the game's press kit mentions 
 Zelda at least as much as it mentions Hype itself. So let's cut right to the chase: Hype is no 
 Zelda. It's not as long, not nearly as deep, less fun, and the name isn't even as good. However, 
 except for the name part, the same complaints can be made against virtually every game ever released. 
 Taken on its own terms, Hype is a polished and enjoyable 3D action-adventure.  

 Hype's world is based on the Playmobil toy universe - one small portion of it, at least. Those hoping 
 to travel through time to the wildly different eras portrayed in the various Playmobil sets may 
 be disappointed to learn that the entire game takes place in the medieval period. You are Hype, 
 brave knight in the service of King Taskan IV. Flung backward in time by the King's supernatural 
 nemesis, the Black Knight Barnak, you must bop your way back through four successive Taskan dynasties 
 to defeat Barnak, save the realm, and be reunited with your betrothed, Princess Vibe.  

 As you might expect from a game based on the Playmobil line of toys, Hype is ostensibly aimed at 
 children. The adventure is strictly linear, the puzzles are fairly simple, and fallen enemies are 
 permanently knocked "unconscious" rather than killed. But the story is engaging and packed with 
 enough surprises to keep older gamers playing. The time travel concept is utilized well in several 
 puzzles, which become more complex as the game progresses and the different eras become accessible. 
 If Hype's tasks aren't generally difficult, they're at least cleverly constructed. The game's cute, 
 evil Playmobil Knights Templar, Playmobil torture chambers, and visitations from hundred-foot Playmobil 
 gods are somehow more intriguing than the same subjects presented straight in more adult-oriented 
 games.  

 Though Hype's characters look like the simple yet stylized little dolls that are the game's inspiration, 
 they're well suited to telling a story. Each character's head is a perfect sphere with two dot 
 eyes and a dot mouth. The eyes and mouth are constantly in motion and can express a lot of different 
 emotions. All the game's dialogue is spoken, and both the writing and voice acting are top notch. 
 The uncomplicated but emotive faces combined with high-quality voice work and fluid body animation 
 result in more believable characters than in many games with much more complicated character models. 

 The environments in which you play are often pretty amazing as well. Graphically, Hype features 
 large, geometrically simple areas with great lighting effects and texture work. The game's shadow 
 effects are among the best yet created. Fires bathe rooms in an eerie red glow and cause characters 
 to cast elongated shadows on the surrounding stonework. The four eras that Hype must visit have 
 the same geography - Taskan's castle and its immediate environs - but each occurs during a different 
 season and has major architectural and graphical differences. More than a few of the backdrops 
 are truly spectacular, such as a large treetop city whose high leafy ceiling is perforated by shafts 
 of amber light. Hype's magic system isn't quite as spectacular as its graphics. Spells come in three 
 categories - fire, electricity, and ice - and become available as the game progresses. There's 
 a total of twelve spells, but unfortunately, they're neither very pretty nor very useful. All of 
 the spells are offensive in nature and are basically projectile weapons. While you may occasionally 
 use one to solve a puzzle or simply to try something different, they're harder to aim and slower 
 than your sword attack. Almost every enemy is most effectively dispatched using just your sword, 
 making the entire magic system seem unnecessary.  

 Though Hype's developers took their inspiration from Zelda, they unwisely chose to dispense with 
 one of that game's best features, the ability to lock the camera onto enemies during combat. Hype 
 includes a strafe key that keeps you pivoted around a fixed point, but this focus is generally 
 useless when you really need to be locked onto a moving enemy. Boss battles are often especially 
 frustrating because you'll often get hit while simply trying to keep your opponent in view.  

 
 Hype's flawed save-game mechanism adds to the frustration. You can only save your progress at podiums 
 that are scattered around the landscape. They're usually in logical places, but in a few cases 
 their position is baffling. One boss monster's closest podium is at the bottom of a ladder leading 
 to its lair. The problem is that the save point is across a level transition. So every time you 
 get knocked out while fighting the boss, you've got to wait while the podium area loads up, then 
 walk three steps and wait again while the boss area reloads. There are several situations like 
 this, usually right before a major battle that inevitably takes numerous tries to complete.  

 
 Hype is also a little too linear. There are a few side quests to complete, but none of them are 
 particularly thrilling. You eventually befriend a dragon on whose back you can ride, but unlike 
 Zelda's horse, this sequence is more of a mandatory bonus game than a fully integrated play element. 
 Hype takes 15 to 20 hours to complete straight through and offers no compelling reason to return 
 to the game once you've finished it.  

 These few drawbacks aside, Hype offers a good story combined with first-rate production values. 
 It's a game suitable for children that's sophisticated enough to attract adults. Think of Hype 
 as a Zelda simulation - it's a fun diversion that captures enough of its inspiration's spirit to 
 be worth playing but doesn't match the actual Zelda experience.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ZiggyHaloX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Hype the time quest was one of the first games I ever played, and what an introduction to gaming. 
 I suppose I hate it because now I'm playing Halo and Gears like there isn't a limit, with 20,000 
 worth of hardware in my room. But I love it, so much! Its fantastic. A simple but genius fighting 
 system, a world thats great fun to travel, and brilliantly varied areas make Hype the Time Quest 
 legendary. In fact, I'm putting Halo 3 down to 8.0 after this review. Moments like hiding outside 
 a window, watching a mad magician create a magic killer death ray suit, and firing a bolt of magic 
 over his head to hit a painting off a wall to distract him while you steal a book (sorry I forgot 
 the details) and being in a gladiatorial match with some chain and ball flinging maniac jumping 
 600 feet and discovering the brand new set of legendary armor after slaying the three headed golden 
 dragon, all come together, to create something truly special. Even if it is playmobile. So, once 
 I've stripped halo of its perfect status, I'll go and enjoy my second playthrough, of this legendary 
 game. Buy it. Now... well... go on... stop reading and go! Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F2bnp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Ah Hype The Time Quest. Remember when I was about 9 years old I played this game back in 99'. It 
 was so cool and for PC Gamers it could have been the other Ocarina Of Time.
  
  Plot 8/10
  
  You control Hype a valiant young knight who is given a great sword after a celebration and 
 as you might already have noticed, he is a playmobil (fun factor=10/10 :P) So um, suddenly a Black 
 Knight appears out of nowhere with his dragon and Hype tries to protect the king but he is being 
 turned into a statue and cast back into time. You find yourself in Googood's manor 400 years ago 
 as he frees you from the statue status. And then the game starts!
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Ever wanted to play an Action Adventure Platform game with a playmobil character? Now is your chance! This 
 game is a mix of these three and does a great work. Believe me I've explored the whole game every 
 inch of it, it's just awesome. Play this and you'll understand. You have two basic weapons:
  The Sword and the Bow!
  You will also learn and use magic in your journey.
  
  Graphics 9/10
 
  
  Depending on the system requirements, the game didn't want many for 99'. You could even play it on 
 a 166mhz processor. And the graphics were sweet! And also let me tell you, the game runs without any 
 problems in today's PC's! Well the only problem might be if you only like games with sweet graphics 
 : (
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Great! The music, the soundtrack and sound effects are great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamaki1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Who knew playmobil could be so much fun? I sure didn't. The game revolves around the character 
 Hype, who you play. Now, it may seem as though its a kiddy game, but in reality, I feel it actually 
 has a better story than Zelda. The graphics are great, and the fighting is satisfying, but where 
 the game really comes into its own is in the storyline. This is the only game I have ever played 
 where it actually made me cry twice. The only bad part I ever found in the game is that it actually 
 ended; I thought it'd be nice if you could continue in an open ended way after you finally finished 
 saving the kingdom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Its such a shame this game this game is so unheard of, it should be rightly be up there with some 
 of the great action/rpg games of the late 90s. It's more childish than ocarina but some of its 
 puzzles can be fiendishly tricky to even the sharpest of people.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Think Zelda, which is essentially what the game is trying emulate in terms of gameplay. 
 There are puzzles aplenty, a few side quests and mini games and plenty of combat. The combat in 
 the game basically involves nonstop button mashing and jumping, the lack of a lock-on or block 
 function really hampers the style of fighting. As for aiming with your crossbow, well this game 
 doesnt use mouse look so you'll have to fiddle around with the arrow keys in order to line up your 
 shot. However the game is extremely fun despite its lack of depth, and its story will keep you 
 coming back for more.
  
  GRAPHICS - Amazing, considering the games age the graphics are simply astonishing and feature far 
 better draw distances than ocarina ever did. The characters are simple but effective and are capable 
 of expressing a broad range of emotions, the enviroments and skyboxes are also wonderfully done 
 aswell.
  
  SOUND - Good voice acting, good mood setting music.... yep no problems here
  
  VALUE - The game is quite long, somewhere around the 20 hour mark if i remember correctly, 
 so the value was decent even back when the game was at full price. Now however you could probably 
 pick this game out of bargain bin for next to nothing.
  
  PROS - Great story, great locations, challenging, fun
  
  CONS - Some parts of the game are 
 hair-pullingly frustrating, controls can be tricky.
  
  Sure it was always over shadowed by the Ocarina of Time but this game is still great nonetheless.... 
 surprisingly good considering how childish it sounds..... actually just looking at the box i assumed 
 the game would be complete crap... i was very wrong this game is definately worth playing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
