-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Icarus: Sanctuary of the Gods
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/icarussanctuaryofthegods/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 18, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.1, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 14 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JC Research
Developer: ST Entertainment
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     May 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A game that's as stupefyingly average as this one wouldn't be worth a second glance if it had any 
 competition. 

 Given the drought of fantasy RPGs in recent years, this odd little title is very much like a glass 
 of water scooped from New York's East River: You'd pour it down the sink if you were sitting at 
 home with Evian in the fridge, but you'd gulp it down and ask for more if you were dying of thirst 
 in the desert.  

 Actually, that comparison is a bit on the harsh side, but you get the general idea - a game that's 
 as stupefyingly average as this one wouldn't be worth a second glance if it had any competition. 
 But because there are so few fantasy RPGs on the market, it's all the easier to embrace this one 
 and overlook its various shortcomings. And the funny thing is that despite registering off the 
 scale on the mediocrity meter (except for the excellent 3D-modeled characters) , Icarus somehow 
 manages to make you want to keep returning to it from time to time.  

 The action takes place on a world that's been created by a bunch of Gen-X gods led by an ambitious 
 deity named Tetheus. After launching a revolt against their elders, Tetheus and ten of his followers 
 are banished from their homeworld and forced to roam the universe as "cosmic vagabonds." After 
 ages of wandering, Tetheus and ten of his followers set up shop on a planet that caught their eye, 
 created a continent, and named it Icarus (the name of the planet they were booted off of) . After 
 the wearying task of creating all forms of life, the gods took a nap while mankind developed and 
 grew.  

 When they awoke, there was a power struggle between Tetheus (good god) and Ercanet (bad god) . The 
 remaining gods were split evenly in their support of these two (this in spite of the fact that 
 according to the story there should be nine gods casting votes) , so the decision was put before 
 the humans in a sort of theological plebiscite. Tetheus won, and in a jealous rage Ercanet summoned 
 all the evil forces on the planet and sent them out to ravage, murder, terrorize, and generally 
 make a nuisance of themselves.  

 One of Ercanet's henchmen is a wizard named Colias, who wipes out the entire population of the village 
 of Coshark save for two mercenaries, Dreus and Guile. Guile sacrifices himself so that Dreus may 
 escape to battle Colias another day, and as the game opens we see Dreus and his fiancee Helena 
 heading out to exact revenge on Colias and rebuild the Coshark Mercenaries.  

 Players looking for AD&amp; D-style role-playing might be a bit put off by the anime-style characters 
 in Icarus, but they'll feel right at home with the gaming system. As Dreus (knight) and Helena 
 (sorcerer) move from town to town, new characters join the questing party: the swordsman Argon 
 (his character type is listed as "combatant," whatever that means) , Pares (archer) , Lydia (another 
 sorcerer) , and finally Hermes (warrior) .  

 The money earned for performing various undertakings, as well as the money to be had by opening 
 treasure chests lying around conveniently during battles, is used to purchase new equipment and 
 items; as each character engages in combat or uses magic, they rise in levels and class to acquire 
 new modes of attacks and spells, along with greater amounts of hit and magic points.  

 Because of its wonderfully rendered characters and its three-quarter overhead perspective, Icarus 
 bears a striking resemblance to Diablo, but unlike the frenetic real-time pace of that classic, 
 all the combat here is turn based. After deciding where the first character in the party will move 
 (you don't gain or lose any hit points for movement) , you can then have him attack or use an inventory 
 item before ending his turn and moving on to the next member in the party.  

 And it's during your first time around with this turn-based system that you discover one of the 
 biggest problems with Icarus: Each encounter seems like it lasts an eternity. Even if you turn 
 off the animations to avoid watching combatants walking to new locations, you can still expect 
 a medium-sized battle to last 45 minutes to an hour, and Tetheus himself only knows the potential 
 length of a really major fray.  

 One of the reasons these affairs take so long to resolve is because you're so heavily outnumbered 
 - it's best to lure only one or two enemies into combat at a time. Another is that there's no way 
 to command the entire party to stop in a safe spot to rest and recover its hit and magic points 
 before heading back into the fray (the party members can also regain those points by using special 
 items, but it's senseless to use those except in the midst of combat) . Instead, you must right-click 
 twice for each character (once to access the menu bar and another time to end that character's 
 turn) , which in turn means you can wind up right-clicking 70, 80, or 90 times (or more) before 
 all members of your party have fully recovered. It's one thing to be constantly clicking your mouse 
 while you're in combat, a la Diablo; it's quite another to do it dozens of times just to regenerate 
 hit and magic points in a quiet, out-of-the-way spot.   

 But one of the most infuriating aspects of combat is that you can't collect money, weapons, and 
 other items from the treasure chests littering the battlefields unless you do it during the middle 
 of the fight. Once the last enemy falls, you might get a chance to hear your foes sputter an excuse 
 before you're whisked along to the next town - sans treasure. Given the decided numerical superiority 
 of the forces you battle, would it be too much to ask to let your party leisurely collect the spoils 
 of victory?  

 Still, the turn-based system has some advantages: It allows you to carefully formulate an attack 
 that maximizes your team's strengths, it gives you the chance to focus on eliminating the deadliest 
 enemies first, and it makes it easier to decide when to use valuable items to resuscitate wounded 
 members in your party. And it must have something going for it, because inevitably I found myself 
 loading this little mother about once a day to see if I could win a close-run battle and get to 
 the next town to see what twists the story would take.  

 Icarus ships with two CDS: the game and a "bonus" CD featuring the music from the game. How much 
 of a bonus that really is, though, depends on your musical tastes. If you think you'd like rock 
 songs that sound like early Kansas seasoned with some Emerson, Lake, and Palmer being performed 
 by an amateur outfit who's discovered the wonders of drum machines and guitar flangers, this might 
 be up your alley. There are a few mood pieces to listen to as your questing party (represented 
 by Dreus alone) roams around a town, but even these essentially harmless noodlings are occasionally 
 spoiled by some clownish synthesizer riff.  

 It's true that gameplay in Icarus quickly degenerates into a steady routine: combat, visits to towns 
 for new equipment and a new "assignment" (which can also mean the next destination on the journey 
 toward the showdown with Colias) , then combat once again, ad nauseam. And it's true that the combat 
 system will have more action-oriented gamers crying in boredom. But if you've got the patience 
 to deal with the slow pace (and don't mind myriad misspellings and grammatical errors, as well 
 as the anime graphics stylings) then Icarus: Sanctuary of the Gods isn't a bad choice - especially 
 if you're desperately in search of some type of fix for your fantasy RPG cravings.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  What can i say? I've got to go with the GameSpot review on this one - it's a pretty damn linear 
 snoozefest, as tedious and tiresome as they come. I got mine as a gift, btw. It was titled Droiyan 
 , which apparently is the German re-titling, which is why I only recently found out that it was 
 actually released as Icarus. I kept wondering whether it was related to the Korean MMO Droiyan 
 2, which bears very little resemblance to this game.
  
  I was looking for mediocre in the classification section; it isn't there, so it was a toss-up between 
 boring and uninspired . I chose to be kind and picked the latter. It's not AWFUL, it's just unexciting, 
 another forgettable fantasy jaunt.
  
  The anime-style graphics are really the only thing going for this game. Truly. I'm the type who 
 absolutely must find out what happens in the end, which is why I bothered to slog through the game 
 all those years ago (I played it around '2000, only once, right to the end, and forgot about it) . 
 The isometric perspective is sorta nice to look at, and all those maps could really have been great 
 if the game itself was any good. The spell effects aren't flashy but somehow stand out, although 
 to say they're good or great would be a stretch.
  
  Unfortunately, it's as tedious as strategy games go, and the linearity is pretty much like in the 
 original Vandal Hearts: you get into a battle, go to town for the next bit of story, then repeat. 
 Enemies actually increase in level quite a bit between maps, so towards the end, not only are you 
 outnumbered but also outgunned. The AI as I recall was nothing to write home about - basically 
 as your party gets closer, they swarm you. That's it. Oh sure, using your various characters might 
 be fun (everyone has a unique class) , but 2-3 hour-long battles quickly puts a damper on that since 
 you're wasting a lot of time just getting through giving commands or watching them slowly move 
 around.
  
  In all honesty I don't really have that much material for a review, but since nobody else has, 
 and I AM certain of what I played before, this is it. Icarus is okay to look at, and if you don't 
 care terribly about quality the storyline isn't unbelievably stupid, although the music and sfx 
 in general is lacklustre. Oh, and the opening animation still sticks in my mind as being designed 
 by someone horribly unskilled - looked like a programmer did it, not an artist. It's like an alpha 
 render lifted from the 3D tool it was created in - it was merely a camera pan over the cringe-worthy 
 crude 3D constructs which was supposed to represent the village in the introduction.
  
  I don't recall the specifics of the ending but rest assured you aren't missing anything groundbreaking. 
 I'm almost certain it was just a page of text talking about your accomplishments and something 
 about the gods which the game occasionally alludes to.
  
  If you happen to stumble across this game (unlikely) in a bargain bin for under $10 (I suppose 
 for you americans and europeans I'd say 5 bucks or 5 euros) , I suppose it's worth picking up IF 
 you enjoyed the PSX's Vandal Hearts, since it's about as old, and somewhat similar. I don't exactly 
 remember how many maps long it is, but rest assured it isn't all that long (may be either good 
 or bad, depending on your tastes) . I suspect an average completion time of around 20+ hours. I 
 think it took me a little over a week (since I only played a few hours a day back then) .
  
  By the way, I own Vandal Hearts and have replayed it on occasion; it's not as great as some make 
 it out to be, if you can look at it objectively. Icarus fits in the same mould; it's also a linear 
 turn-based strategy RPG, although there's even less strategy in it compared to Vandal Hearts. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
