-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Icewind Dale
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/icewinddale/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  7, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.6, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,724 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Black Isle Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 29, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's well suited for fans of Black Isle Studios' previous games, classic hack-and-slash AD&D computer 
 games, and anyone looking for an action-packed role-playing game with a lot of depth. 

 The highly anticipated sequel to BioWare's hit role-playing game Baldur's Gate is just a few months 
 away, and its publisher, Interplay, released Icewind Dale to tide over role-playing game fans while 
 they wait. But Icewind Dale isn't just a pastime; it's an excellent game in its own right. Though 
 it's based on the Baldur's Gate engine and is also set in the same Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons 
 universe, Icewind Dale's originality and fast pacing make the game uniquely satisfying.   

  Icewind Dale is self-consciously similar to Baldur's Gate: Both games take place in the Forgotten 
 Realms, and Icewind Dale recycles not only Baldur's Gate's engine but also a good deal of the older 
 game's graphics. Specifically, your six player characters are represented with the same small, 
 animated sprites from BioWare's older game, and you might quickly recognize a lot of the equipment 
 that was carried over.   

  Otherwise, Icewind Dale is a good-looking game that has an especially noteworthy original symphonic 
 soundtrack by composer Jeremy Soule. The sweeping score seems to lend purpose to everything that 
 goes on in the game. Icewind Dale also uses an effective storytelling technique in which the game's 
 six chapters are broken down into narrated cinematic sequences detailing the game's events as chapters 
 in a beautifully illustrated tome. Unfortunately, some of the player-character voices sound really 
 bad, especially compared with the rest of the spoken dialogue in the game: Icewind Dale features 
 many exceptional voice-acting performances for the game's major nonplayer characters. The game's 
 main villain is especially memorable.   

  Aside from its contextual similarity, Icewind Dale actually has little in common with Baldur's 
 Gate. You'll rarely if ever get caught up in solving various puzzles or finding miscellaneous trinkets 
 for townspeople. Instead, you'll fight monsters, find powerful artifacts, and explore some very 
 interesting environments. Over the course of the game, you'll fight huge quantities of an even 
 greater variety of different creatures. Your small squad of characters will gradually grow from 
 mere weaklings into stupendously powerful warriors and magic users, and the game is deftly balanced 
 so that you never advance too quickly or too slowly, but are always well prepared for the challenges 
 that lie ahead. Several species of classic AD&amp; D monsters that didn't appear in Baldur's Gate, 
 such as trolls, umber hulks, and giants, are just a few of the many different foes you'll face 
 over the course of Icewind Dale's epic quest. The game is suitably long, but the best part is that 
 there's virtually never a dull moment: Each area in the game is exciting to explore, like the city 
 nestled in the warmth of a huge life-giving oak, or the frozen subterranean aquarium.   

  In spite of its generally fast pacing, Icewind Dale gets off to a slow start. You begin by creating 
 six characters from scratch, using standard second-edition AD&amp; D race and class combinations. 
 You must come up with a well-balanced team that can dish out damage as well as take it, and also 
 be able to adapt to new types of situations. Creating your characters is a laborious process, as 
 you not only need to randomly roll up and redistribute your attribute points, but you also need 
 to choose the character's weapon proficiencies, his portrait, and even his voice. Like Baldur's 
 Gate, Icewind Dale lets you import your own pictures and sounds into the game, and it even lets 
 you write your character's biography if you so choose. However, it's unfortunate that there's no 
 way to get some guidance during the crucial character-creation phase; the game instead assumes 
 you have an intimate familiarity with the nuances of the AD&amp; D class system, though it does 
 let you import a few basic pre-generated characters into your party if you'd rather get started 
 more quickly.   

  The game's isometric perspective is identical to that in Baldur's Gate, but the view angle isn't 
 as close to the characters as in the more recent Planescape: Torment, which also used BioWare's 
 Infinity engine. Like both previous Infinity engine games, exploration in Icewind Dale uses an 
 interface that seems better suited to real-time strategy games: You just select your characters 
 and click where you want them to move. Each area in the game lies shrouded in a fog of war until 
 you pass your characters through, revealing the terrain beneath. Icewind Dale doesn't let you play 
 at a resolution higher than the default 640x480, and though the game has an unsupported 3D-accelerated 
 mode, all it seems to do is make the fog of war look a little smoother on the edges. Furthermore, 
 inventory management in Icewind Dale remains identical to that in Baldur's Gate and Torment so 
 that each character is restricted both by encumbrance and also by having room for only a small 
 number of individual items. Later in the game, it can get frustrating trying to find room for anything 
 else to carry just because Icewind Dale treats a magic ring or a gemstone as being the same size 
 as a battle-ax or a suit of armor.    

 The game also sometimes suffers from bad pathfinding; your characters will inevitably split up when 
 you try to make them negotiate the game's many corridors. It's problematic, but if you've played 
 an Infinity engine game before, then chances are you're already used to putting up with it. Fortunately, 
 it's true that while your characters can't run in Icewind Dale, they do move appreciably faster 
 than in Baldur's Gate, but otherwise, the Infinity engine hasn't undergone any significant enhancements 
 to make it better suited for its particular genre. At least Icewind Dale carries over the multiplayer 
 functionality of Baldur's Gate, so you can play the game with up to six people if you can coordinate 
 all the players to work together.   

  As with both Planescape: Torment and Baldur's Gate, the limitations of the game engine don't keep 
 Icewind Dale from being a great, original game. In fact, the game's emphasis on combat actually 
 helps a lot of the features in Infinity engine games, like squad formations and fog of war, make 
 more sense. Though the game plays in real time, you have the ability to pause play and reissue 
 move and attack orders at any point, which lets you readily adapt to the changing conditions of 
 battle. Frequently having to pause play might at first seem to disrupt the flow of the game, but 
 you can effectively use the feature to retreat injured party members at the last possible moment, 
 cast certain spells in a pinch, and switch from ranged to melee weapons without delay. Icewind 
 Dale also has an automatic-pause option that simulates turn-based combat by stopping the action 
 in between each short round of battle. In general, no matter how you play it, the combat in Icewind 
 Dale provides a good combination of gory action and interesting tactical opportunity. Since your 
 characters go from first level all the way into their teen levels over the course of the game - 
 a range that's well beyond the scope of most AD&amp; D-based computer games to date - you'll continuously 
 revise your battle tactics as your party increases in power.   

  Icewind Dale does suffer from a few problems besides the inherent shortcomings of the aging Infinity 
 engine. Although the game doesn't have too many side quests and generally keeps you focused on 
 a particular goal, it does occasionally run into trouble whenever it becomes more open-ended. There 
 are several scripting bugs that may crash the game if you don't do things in the same order the 
 designers intended; you can get into nonsensical dialogue loops with many of the game's nonplayer 
 characters; and the automatic journal-entry feature produces too many convoluted or contradictory 
 entries for it to be useful. Also, the game's handful of puzzles can be frustrating to solve and 
 can slow the game's otherwise brisk pace. Since most of the game's combat sequences are scripted, 
 enemy creatures will attack only once you've triggered them by approaching close enough. Thus you'll 
 find that the game holds few surprises the second time around and also that it's easy to lure just 
 a few enemies at a time in many situations. Furthermore, your characters' moral alignments don't 
 seem to play any part in the game, except to limit them from using certain powerful artifacts - 
 and similarly, your six characters will never actually interact with one another. Although Icewind 
 Dale's gameplay is combat-intensive, the game's interesting story will make you wish your individual 
 characters played a larger role in it.   

  Ultimately, its story makes Icewind Dale all the more satisfying, and its exciting action makes 
 its occasional problems negligible. There's always a purpose behind all the hacking and slashing, 
 which makes the gameplay seem rewarding and challenging, rather than like a cheap thrill. In this 
 sense, Icewind Dale is surprisingly effective, much like Planescape: Torment managed to be impressive 
 largely on account of its involving plot. Likewise, Icewind Dale proves to be another great addition 
 to Black Isle Studios' roster of high-quality role-playing games. It's well suited for fans of 
 Black Isle Studios' previous games, fans of classic hack-and-slash AD&amp; D computer games, and 
 anyone looking for an action-packed role-playing game with a lot of depth.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KTs2006
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Icewind Dale series is the second one of AD&D rules based CRPGs that take place in Faerun (the main 
 continent of the Forgotten Realms Setting) . This time your adventures are located in the area of 
 Spine of the World, which is in the north. Thus the main element of the areas you move around is 
 cold and snow. As with BG there is a mixture of action and riddles to solve as you proceed. This 
 one though is more focused in battles but the story remains interesting still.
  One of the main differences, wich can be concidered a drawback perhaps, is the linear style of the 
 game. You can't move around from area to area at will but only straight forward as the games dictates 
 you. The end of the story is not the most original you've ever seen, since the final bad guy is a 
 powerful Demon. By the way that fianl battle is one of the toughest i had in these kind of games.
 
  The final conclusion is that despite he's minor flaws Icewind Dale reamins a really entertaining 
 hack'n'slash CRPG that'll give you the chance to furthermore explore the world of Faerun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_rusian
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Icewind dale is a great game. If you can go with the ageing graphics of course! If you can, then 
 you will enjoy the incredible atmosphere that the game delivers. I played it for the firs time 
 back in 2001 and since then I still want to come back to the icy land of Icewind dale. The epic 
 atmosphere is mostly created by one of the greatest video game music composers Jeremy Soule (he 
 also created music to such titles as: Guild Wars, Morowind, Oblivion, company of heroes, Warhammer) .
 
  The locations are original and beautiful with many details. The story delivers many excitement 
 and will surprise you a few times during your adventure. It has many twists and turns, and gets 
 more interesting while you go (from Great to Breathtaking ;) ) One of the coolest things I like 
 in the game is that you can create all six of your characters { (not like in Baldurs gate, one main 
 character) } so you can entirely control what kind of personas you'll have in the band. And there's 
 a lot to chose from, there are warriors, paladins, barbarians, thieves, bards, mages, druids, clerics, 
 sorcerers and many more. The characters are deep and have many dimensions (im sure they have more 
 than two; D "2d")
  The main con of the game is that it is Linear and has more fighting than anything else (but that's 
 the way it goes in the harsh lands of the icy north)
  I really recommend IceWind Dale to everyone who likes RPGs, especially to people who also like 
 hack and slash RPGs. People who played Baldurs gate before will also enjoy the game and wont forget 
 the experience, but might be a little sad about the linearity.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tilrak
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Don't let the high score fool you, the graphics suck, the storyline is gay don't be deceived. If 
 you're looking for a very old game with poor graphics, storyline, and gaming possibilities, this 
 is for you. I was looking for a classic game worth investing some time into, but this is NOT it. 
 When will another betrayal at Krondor, or Quest for glory come along.... I am not asking for much, 
 just nice graphics, a good storyline I can get involved in... Can't wait for Fallout 3. But it's 
 on its way so... patience is a virtue I guess. Bottom line, don't waste your time with this game, 
 unless you're in to paper D&D. If you're looking for a very old game with poor graphics, storyline, 
 and gaming possibilities, this is for you. I was looking for a classic game worth investing some 
 time into, but this is NOT it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thibbledorfP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Icewind Dale... what can I say? Normally I like heavier RPG's along the lines of Baldurs Gate, 
 but IWD was of such high-quality, I rather like the dungeon-crawling game. It knows what its focus 
 is... combat. You develop a group of six characters, with a wide variety of interesting skills, 
 then go out into the world. The plot involves a missing caravan at first, but your adventurers 
 discover a diabolical plan to dominate the region. Do you have the mettle to stop it?
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  I can summarise this as follows: Fans of quality 2d sprite graphics will like it, 
 people who feel strongly against 2d graphics will not. The graphics are quality and well-done. 
 Ironically, the best graphics are the indoors, not the rather plain icy plains. Good detail, spell 
 effects... not bad at all.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is perfect. That is a word I never ever use. The music is the pinnacle of music for a 
 game. Soaring and emotional orchestral scores will please your ears, but it is subtle and will 
 never get old. Voice and FX are good as well, the voice actors for your pcs are interesting indeed. 
 Only main plot characters will speak full lines to you, but the acting is grand. The real show 
 here is the music. I got the soundtrack to the game, and I actually listen to it when doing homework 
 etc. outside the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay consists of extremely fun battles that demand strategy, but are fair. The character 
 creation is extremely fun, and you do NOT need to have a standard party (2 warriors, a healer, 
 thief, mage, random) . Any combination of characters within reason will work, as there are different 
 strategies possible. Having three mages would be interesting for example. The challenge, fun and 
 strategy of combat is perfect here: hard in a way that makes you think, but easy to learn and use. 
 The story is great, and the atmosphere and dialogue are classy. There are not many dialogue or 
 quest-choices, and it is very linear. There are not many sub-quests. But it is a very classy hack-and-slash 
 that even someone like me who loves hardcore rpgs, can grow to accept. The game has a great variety 
 of well-designed random loot, no two games will play the same. The expansion adds great features, 
 new options for classes, new spells and a search button ( a godsend!) . 
  
  Now to the bad. Pathfinding is horrible, like in other IE games. But not enough to break it. The 
 'you must gather your party before venturing forth' voice is still there when you try to change 
 areas without your whole party there. BG veterans will know what I mean. Sometimes it can get lonely 
 without many npcs to talk to, but you have to accept the game for being a quality hack-and-slash. 
 I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Icewind Dale's the first game I played that features AD&amp; D rules and its world of the Forgotten 
 Realms. Being both an RPG and strategy fan, I quite liked the experience this Black Isle game had 
 offered. I spent more than a full hour configuring the classes and specs of my 6 characters and 
 carefully striking a balance between melee fighters and magic users. That's one of the great things 
 I liked about AD&amp; D games, that you get to customise your characters with a true sense of depth.
 
  
  This is a more straightforward game that Black Isle Studios had made as it consists of a lot of 
 fights throughout the whole campaign without much side quests that doesn't involve fighting. In 
 fact, it doesn't really have those kind of quests that tell you to deliver something to another 
 person of another town or solving puzzles. Almost every quest you get require you to fight. If 
 you really love the hack'n'slash side of an RPG game like Diablo2, then you may want to try Icewind 
 Dale.
  
  However, combat in Icewind Dale requires strategic planning as well since it involves your 6 party 
 members simultaneously and you will want to keep everyone alive by the end of the hectic fighting 
 by commanding your wizards to cast fireballs from behind while your fighters hack their way in 
 front and your clerics cast mass heal at the side and your thief sneak and backstab behind enemy 
 lines. Wow! Don't worry, it has a pause function that enables you to make these commands while 
 the game is ehm... paused and they will execute the moves when you unpaused it. This is something 
 fresh to me that time and I really enjoyed the whole deal.
  
  Inventory system is strange but never mind... Ah... the soundtrack is impressive with a full orchestraic 
 composition that brings out the grandness of the adventure itself. Good classic RPG game, though 
 it looks way too outdated to play by now.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmay222
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  The game is a good game and pretty fun, and the story behind it is absolutely amazing. The only 
 problem with the game that I find is that it can be a little dead at times and frustrating when 
 your characters get tired and you have to travel out of the area then back to the town, rest up 
 and then go back. I also didn't like how if you didn't have at least three clerics (or at least 
 if i didn't have three clerics) then you'd have to go back to the town and rest up. It might just 
 not be a game for me, because I seem to take a long time just trying to get through one part. But 
 it is a fun game and has a great story and a vast supply of weapons and is quite lengthy. I do 
 recommend this game for people who love RPG's but I don't reccomend it for people who like faster 
 paced games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourasvasilis
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  So, last week i re-installed this game again after about 5 years to play it again... i just finished 
 it yesterday and i have to say that is still one of the best CRPGs i have played in my life. It's 
 more action oriented than it's cousin the Baldur's Gate series but it's as fun as those! The Story 
 is well implemented with the usual infinity engine boxes and it has good pacing... though it's not 
 something special. But the main goal of this game is not the story as much as the action, and we 
 are talking about non-stop D&amp; D action here! You create a group of 6 characters to play throughout 
 the game and with these 6 heroes you slay every goblin, troll or undead that stands in your way... and 
 there is more than that! the best thing about this game imo is that it combines the strategic combat 
 of the typical Infinity Engine games (BG, Torment) with more fast paced style alla Diablo hack n 
 slash action.... and it does this justice! Plus the music is wonderful! the tunes of the game will 
 stick with you after you finish a long 5-6 hour session... yeah, it's that good: P
  
  So, to sum up.... we are dealing here with a beautiful game that all you that are new to CRPGs MUST 
 check out along with it's cousins of course! BTW you can get it really cheap i suppose now, the other 
 day i saw an offer with it plus the expansion and the sequel for about 19 euros (i live in europe) 
 or dollars (it's the same anyways!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caxen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  I had a blast with Icewind dale plus the two expansions. Heart of winer and Trials of the luremaster. 
 First of all, all the games based on the dungeons and dragons has a pretty steep but somewhat entertaining 
 learning curve. It can take a very long time to figure out how to use all the classes, weapons 
 and spells in the right situations. It has a very strategic depth when it comes to combat. Also, 
 if you don't want to use Qsave and Qload every damn minute you better thread lightly and plan your 
 adventures. None of the games based on dungeons and dragons are for impatient players.
  
  This game is pretty straightforward and much more action oriented than it's cousin Baldurs gate. 
 But it's still a very good roleplaying game.
  
  The graphics are ok for this kind of game and considering which year it was released, still some 
 environments do not seem as well done as in Baldurs gate, which makes me a bit sad, but still they 
 are ok. However the graphics of this game is without doubt it's weakest part. Characters, inventory 
 and interface is just to my liking. I love the item-handling and treasure hunting in these D&amp; D 
 games.
  
  The music is very good and the sound effects do their job perfectly.
  The combat music + the sounds of clashing swords + the chanting of your two mages + the screams 
 of the monsters + battle cries of your warriors + the snaping sound of arrows leaving their masters 
 are a pretty thing to hear. The vioce acting is also very good and their are some quotes from this 
 game that I'll never forget. The story is good in my opinion.
  Don't want to spoil anything but the story will let you run into some very uniqe characters, fierce 
 monsters and tons of adventure. Though I must admit, it took quite a while for me to get hooked 
 on the game. Being patient was rewarding though, after about 1,5 hour into the game there was no 
 return. What this game does best is the feeling of adventure.
  
  The length of the game is more than satesfying.
  With the two expansions we are talking about 
 over 100 hours.
  
  I spent like 1,5 hour on making my characers.
  
  Bottom line, this is a very good, long and hardcore RPG for patient players with the itch for adventure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I also had a bitter taste in my mouth.. but the more I played and 
 replayed.. I found the game to be a diamond in the rough.. Sure BG2 overshadows it.. but this should 
 be taken apart from the other games. It has a very engaging storyline and the infinity engine was 
 well used here.. The game is more challenging than BG was and gives great battles comparable to 
 those in ToB. Together with HoW, you must not overlook this game.. considering the lackluster storylines 
 in games like NWN and Shadows I have to say IWD1 is superb. The collector packs give both IWD1, 
 HoW, and IWD2 (although you will find IWD2 a bit less story-driven and more like the same quality 
 storyline as is found in Shadows [expansion to NWN] ) This game may not give you the replay value 
 BG had.. but it is enough to provide hundreds of hours if you want to try out each character class.. 
 plus the added benefit of creating the perfect party to dominate the game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Baldur's Gate series, I decided to give Icewind Dale (IWD) a try. Unfortunately, 
 Black Isles did not strike gold twice. While Icewind Dale is a carbon copy of their excellent Baldur's 
 Gate games in many ways, it lacks the personality that make the BG series great. IWD actually has 
 a number of things in its favor. The character creation system is very rich, allowing you to customize 
 your party of six in true D&amp; D fashion. Also, there is a long list of abilities, spells, and 
 equipment that you'll run across, as well as visually appealing environments, solid voice acting, 
 and compelling music. Some of the dungeons can be genuinely creepy, and there's a sense of accomplishment 
 once you clear one out.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is deeply flawed. IWD is a bit too hard, even for a person who has some 
 experience with RPG dungeon-crawling. Even worse, it's an artificial toughness designed to lengthen 
 the game by requiring you to repeatly reload saved games. Your characters will die countless times, 
 and this simply can't be avoided. And since your cleric will not be able to resurrect dead party 
 members until late in the game (Raise Dead scrolls are expensive too) , you will not be able to 
 continue the game with dead characters. It's really a shame that the developer did not pace the 
 game better, since it's going to turn off a lot of people from the very beginning.
  
  If you can get beyond the tedium and frustration of having to save the game every 2 minutes (and 
 reload it almost as often) , the gaming experience is still rather uninspired. The story is lackluster 
 and cliche. There is none of the banter between party members that made Baldur's Gate so fun. All 
 of this together becomes mind-numbing after a while, since the game profoundly lacks a sense of 
 purpose or narrative power. It's all really unfortunate since some effort obviously went into creating 
 the game. Ultimately, if you haven't played Baldur's Gate, by all means play it (both BG1 &amp; 
 BG2) . If you've already tasted the glory of the Baldur's Gate series, then IWD will probably be 
 a disappointment.
  
  Pros:
  +rich D&amp; D character creation
  +good voice acting and music
  +wide range of spells, items, etc.
  
  Cons:
  -unnecessarily 
 tedious and difficult
  -lackluster story
  -Baldur's Gate clone without the personality 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  FRP genre found its true place among games relatively early. The computers of a decade and a half 
 ago where powerful enough to present the fantasy worlds in picture, and assume the role of the 
 game master. It looked awfully modest in the beginning, but more than enough for creative weirdoes 
 who played with paper figures and geometric shapes before the computer images kicked in.
  
  The former owners of these bones are not refreshed He's ugly and doesn't deserve to live... Pool 
 of Radiance and its sequels, as well as the Eye of the Beholder serial, distinguished their makers 
 from SSI and Westwood and made them a certain standard in grading of other FRP games. Black Isle 
 Studios is the next great name in this genre. Their Baldur's Gate, with its complexity and fidelity 
 of almost all D&amp; D rules, set new road marks for future games, while Planescape Torment proved 
 that quality plots are still possible in the computer industry.
  
  Their newest creation Icewind Dale will not revolutionize as their predecessors did, but it wont 
 be in their shadow either. The release date has unfortunately overlapped with the release of Diablo 
 II, so the success of this game is questioned with a reason, and because of the circumstances it 
 wont draw the attention that a game of such quality deserves.
  
  Icewind Dale is a Forgotten Realms world, created in the image of R. A. Salvatore books. It is a 
 habitat of a large number of barbaric tribes that don't mind the snow and the severe Nordic climate, 
 and don't mind calling this territory cut off from the rest of the world and surrounded by the 
 mountain massive Spine of the World their home. The confusion is caused by Archmage Ericon --- 
 hungry for power and thirsty for blood, with his army of mercenaries he took the advantage of the 
 tribal feuds and started a campaign in the land if the ice. His plans were upset by shaman Jerodh, 
 who united the barbaric tribes and defeated the evil archmage's army. In despair, Ericon opens 
 the gateway to the dark dimension and nightmare creatures start pouring in. Jerodh thrusts himself 
 bravely into the gateway, and blocks it with his life force. The gateway instantly turns into stone, 
 but so does the brave shaman. That's when the player steps in with a group of his apprentice adventurers, 
 who will through the prologue and the 6 chapters try to find the source of strange occurrences, 
 such as the disappearance of tribesmen, harsh weather and the enormous activity of goblins and 
 orcs. The story itself is ordinary, and the animation that leads you into it is not worth any particular 
 mention. The thing that will intrigue you into playing the game is the superb voice of the narrator 
 and the game soundtrack. The quality of both is such that they could easily be used in a motion 
 picture on this subject. The programmers have decided that the game is to be engined by Bioware's 
 Infinity engine. The result isn't bad, but it adds a kind of deja-vy sense, as well as the feeling 
 that there is much to be desired. The long since outdated 640 x480 resolution, applied in Diablo 
 II as well, looks surprisingly good even on larger monitors (the leap to 800x600 is promised in 
 Baldur's Gate II) . Some scenes are pre-rendered and well fitted and the water looks excellent. 
 The characters are unfortunately done in 2D, but a little more detailed than in BG. The interface 
 is almost identical to the ones in the predecessors and there is, of course, the option of pausing 
 the action at any time in the game. As usual, the AD&amp; D rules are followed to the letter. The 
 whole system is so complex that a handbook is provided with the game to clarify certain terms, 
 weapon list, item list and a list of available magic and spells in the game, and there are a lot 
 of those (110 different spells for mages and about eighty for the priests) . Anyone who wishes so, 
 can study the charts by which you can calculate the strength of the strike, damage, race and class. 
 The handbook is so extensive that can be used not only for the game, but also in FRP sessions. As 
 opposed to BG you do not start the game as one character. You have the option of creating a team 
 of six. It is up to you how many characters you will recruit, but the difficulty of the game and 
 the number of conflicts suggests that you need a balanced group and a maximum number of team members. 
 All the usual races and classes are present, and so is the usual assigning of aligning and the 
 defining of characteristics by dice rolling. The option of picture insertion is preserved and you 
 can change the .WAV with some of your own. The thing that bugged me the most is the linearity of 
 the game. Beside the basic goal of the game - defeating the primordial evil, there are minor quests 
 and their completion is not obligatory, but both one and the other are boiled down to cleansing 
 a certain part of the map from hostile hordes of creatures with an occasional adventure task which 
 is easy to achieve. This concept is well applied. The variety of hostiles, large number of magic 
 items and the reward in the form of EXP. points is enough to keep you interested. Still, there 
 is a lot lost in the replay value because the quests and the locations are changing always in the 
 same fashion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffdailey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is way better than most reviewers have said. Baldurs gate was way fun but had nothing 
 on Icewind Dale. Even though Neverwinter Nights I believe is one of the best games of the D&D series 
 it is way to easy to finish. Icewind Dale is very good in it's length, it's difficulty at times 
 is hard but is very good overall. I have played Icewind Dale many many many times since I first 
 bought it. If you can still find it I strongly recommend you run out and get it. The graphics were 
 among the best of it's time and the sound is also topnotch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Yes! It is a big and amazing fairytale as we see it in a beginning of the game: storyteller opens 
 a book and starts to read us the tale of the forgotten realms. The same way i felt playing it - 
 like reading a book! There's some unbelievable encounters with various mythological people and 
 creatures, but not forget that magic has a big involvement in this. The game lets you create a 
 party of maximum 6 people; there's a big variety of races to choose, but it would be wise to have 
 each party member of a different race or speciality, so they could support each other with sniping, 
 slashing, magical, bardish, dwarfish, thievish and etc. skills. Each race has their own abilities 
 and the game requires you to use most of them in the game; but only human race has unlimited amount 
 of levels to acquire (but not to worry, game's pretty short, so there's only tiny possibility to 
 reach maximum level anyway) . Not that many varieties of enemies, weapons and armour to collect, 
 but magical skills will support you in general in facing your opponents. Of course the story is 
 magnificent, it leads you to visit many races in many different landscapes with inviting atmosphere 
 and at the end of completing main quests you'll have to face many bosses that are not willing to 
 give up their lives too easily. Blizzard, fire, storm and earthquakes will be blocking your way, 
 but you have well managed group to deflect such hazards from you, don't you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrog-III
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Icewind Dale is based north of Baldur's Gate in the region of Icewind Dale and starts in the small 
 village of Easthaven. Whilst it looks and plays very much like Baldur's Gate it is more focused 
 on the combat and action side of the adventure as opposed to the less common side-quests.
  
  In Icewind Dale you make all 6 characters of your adventuring party yourself as there is nobody 
 to recruit as you go along. Multi-player like Baldur's Gate is still an option just so long as 
 you have a disk for each PC you are going to use.
  
  The general plot of the game is really good aswell taking you all over the region exploring new 
 and sometimes creepy places.
  
  Suprisingly, the characters say some really funny things depending on which voice you give them 
 at the start if you click on them lots aswell.
  
  This is one of the best RPGs ever made and anyone who likes RPGs should buy this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sugam
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  If you love RPG, this game is for you. If you don't, it does not matter, play it and you will enjoy 
 it.
  Game Play: At start, it seem to be difficult because of the character's creation, but after that, 
 it's just plain fun. Maybe, if this is your first RPG, you will find it boring, but as you pass 
 the game, it'll go better by the time. One thing sure is that your first time through the game 
 wont be the one who will finish it. Making your party is a big decision and because you've got 
 a lot of possibilities, it will cost you. After a time, you will find the game really enjoying 
 and you will sure play it a lot of times.
  Graphics: the graphics are better for the time it was created, but it don't have much things to 
 see.
  Sound: very good, all the sounds are put very well.
  Value: if you like RPGs, this game is the right one for you, you will get nothing by not buying 
 it. And it's a good game for starters on this type of game. The bad thing is that it have some 
 errors, and some of this could stuck you in the game.
  My Tilt: I really love this kind of games, so at the time I know this game, I get i t as fast as 
 I can. I rally recommend this game to ANYONE. At least give it a try and you will see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy919
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  This is a game that has a soft spot in my heart because it was the game that began my love for 
 D&D role-playing games. The game has its roots in the Baldur's Gate series. Many similarities can 
 be seen but the two games differ GREATLY in story. The game has a relatively easy gameplay, good 
 graphics, and a solid D&D platform.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The game for this game took me some getting used to but it was my first time ever playing a D&D 
 PC game. The commands are very easy to get used. I didn't even have directions when I first played 
 this game so the learning curve is not hard it just takes some time to learn all the buttons and 
 special abilities. Selecting players is as easy as it can get and commanding them is just a click 
 away. There were a few times I did loose a player because they would get hung up with some monster 
 or stray off the wrong path in a long path command so I suggest doing baby steps for those who 
 aren't that knowledgeable of the area you're in. Overall the game play is nice.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Well when this came out the graphics were really good, but now that it's six years 
 later the graphics have lost their luster. But never the less, it has stood up fairly well over 
 the six years. The game is vivid in its scenery and the players are well done for the time. The 
 many monsters you come in contact with can be pretty cool to look at but don't look too close. 
 The graphics are aging but they are aging nicely.
  
  D&D PLATEFORM
  The D&D platform in which this game was developed is probably my favorite out of the other Icewind 
 Dale games and the other Baldur's Gates. Of course I did say this was the first game in which I 
 played a D&D game on so I do have a slight bias to it, but to put that aside this is one of the 
 best games to start with if you have never played a D&D based game. As with all D&D games there's 
 a good story behind the game and this one is no exception. Take it for what it is, a good D&D game.
 
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  Well with many new D&D games out this one just starts to age more and more. The best part is that 
 this game is being able to fight your way through a fantasy world with a group of people you can 
 make into your friends (if you want) . I've played this game many times but my favorite one was 
 the one I only had one guy left in the group that was alive. It was made to look like my best friend 
 and he was a warrior with all the amour and swords a knight would want. He was the last standing 
 with barely 1 hit point left and struck the final villain down. I was so stoked about that. It 
 was pretty cool. In all seriousness this is a good game to play. Get It and Have Fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  I was really pleasantly surprised by how good Icewind Dale was. I was a huge Baldur's Gate I and 
 II fan, but left IWD sitting on my shelf for years b/c I had assumed it was nothing but a hack 
 'n' slash version of my beloved BG. So after finally finishing the game, I wish I would have played 
 through this fantastic Infinity Engine RPG much sooner than I did.
  
  In some ways, Icewind Dale is even better than Baldur's Gate in that the scale of the battles is 
 more challenging than what you're used to and a few of the boss fights actually do throw some wrinkles 
 at you, simplistic though they may be. And for pure power gamers, IWD is a lot more customizable 
 than BGII, where you were basically stuck with the developer's NPCs in your party. While those 
 characters made for hilarious banter, they left a bit lacking when it comes to overall party power. 
 Here, the scope of the party is completely under your control, and if you enjoy trying to sculpt 
 the perfect party, this gives you so much more freedom than BGII.
  
  I was also surprised by how good the dialogue and plot was in this game. There's some genuinely 
 funny script options and the storyline takes you all over the Spine of the World in a fairly engaging 
 flow.
  
  Overall, I felt Icewind Dale was just as good as my experience in Baldur's Gate, but just a little 
 bit ... different ... in its own way. Definitely a fantastic blast from the past to finallly finish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  Bioware's Infinity Engine has powered some of the greatest RPGs out there. Arriving a short time 
 before Baldur's Gate II was Icewind Dale an RPG that at its core was just a linear dungeon crawler, 
 but a very well designed dungeon crawler that was unfortunately overshadowed by Diablo II.
  
  In Icewind Dale you take control of a party of up to six adventurers (of whom you create) who 
 have just arrived in Icewind Dale at the fishing village of Easthaven. Apparently there is some 
 evil force at work (how shocking) and your group is invited on an expedition to Kuldahar. Something 
 goes wrong (Oh no!) and your party are the only individuals who survived an avalanche and thus 
 the story truly begins.
  
  Icewind Dale's plot is hardly revolutionary, but it's still a solid and well written story that 
 should entertain anyone who is into classic good versus evil. Like Baldur's Gate you're given dialogue 
 choices in IWD; unfortunately your choices mean even less in IWD than they do in Baldur's Gate. 
 The game is one-hundred percent linear therefore the dialogue choices are there only for your amusement, 
 and though some of them can be evil you still end up performing heroic deeds regardless.
  
  The gameplay in Icewind Dale is very similar to the other Infinity Engine games obviously. In fact, 
 Icewind Dale plays exactly like Baldur's Gate except with more focus on combat. You'll still click 
 enemies to order your party members to attack. Icewind Dale is unfortunately extremely linear, 
 the plot basically connects every dungeon together. The dungeons are very well designed though; 
 as are the enemies and quests.
  
  The graphics in IWD are exactly the same as they are in Baldur's Gate. The character sprites are 
 the same, right down to the armor. The terrain however looks a lot more detailed than Baldur's 
 Gate and everything looks nice. The spell effects have had an over-haul since Baldur's Gate as 
 well and look much nicer, but they don't exactly reach Planescape: Torment's epic spell effect 
 level.
  
  The sound in IWD is solid; the voice acting is convincing and the normal sound effects are for 
 the most part the same as Baldur's Gate. The enviromental ambience and the music composed by Jeremy 
 Soule, however; are superb and really make you feel like you're in the frozen lands of Icewind 
 Dale.
  
  Icewind Dale is a fun action RPG that might place a heavier focus on combat than story, but still 
 manages to deliver a decent plot and hours of monster hacking. If you're looking for a solid action 
 RPG then look no further; Icewind Dale is one fine dungeon crawler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  If you are the RPG gamer-type that is fond of many fights, tactical, skirmish and sometimes mayhem 
 fighting then look no further.
  This game is more fighting-enhanced than other games from the same creator's such as Baldur's Gate 
 1 & 2 for example. The game is based on 2nd edition D&D rules, and it is pretty straight forward 
 even to new comers to CRPG games. 
  The creators of this game did a splendid job with the "Infinity" engine that makes the game possible 
 to play. An inegnius blend of turn based (old style pen & paper D&D games) and real-time (for a 
 fluid and quick gameplay) , which enabls you to control your characters at any time and use micro-management 
 when it is needed.
  
  In this game you create a party of explorers, up to 6 memebers in total. Each character is created 
 in the old-school way of D&D with points distribution, skills, spells and such... The game starts 
 off quite hard in my opinion. As a matter of fact the game is hard, especially for new comers. 
 Of course you can adjust game difficulty in real time through game-options making even the most 
 ugly fights to possible fights...
  
  The game is presented to the player in an isometric view, and you scroll through the game area 
 like you would in a strategy game. This gives you a good overview of the gaming area and a better 
 control of practically everything. This is better in my opinion than the 3D games (for example 
 Neverwinter Nights) where you have to control the camera angle and tilt it and move it just to 
 see what is coming up next... Also, CRPG's are better when you see your party in a *static* 3rd 
 person view or as I call it bird's eye view, than a 1st person view (such as Wizardry8 or Heros 
 of Might & Magic comes to mind...) . 
  This view gives you a better "feel" of the party, the game, the environment and I think it kind 
 of "connects" you better to your characters, as you can always see them. It also makes sense, think 
 of it, who says that a party has to be always together..?!?!? Don't you send a scout ahead now 
 & then to see what dangers lurk ahead?? This is something that is a *MUST* in IWD1 & 2 this I am 
 telling you from my experience after finishing both 3 times already.
  
  Graphics are just right IMHO. I generally think, that the gameplay issue is far more important 
 than graphics or sound. But some people simply don't like the game due to it's lack luster graphics. 
 Although this can improve if you install the game's expansion "Heart of Winter" which gives you 
 the option of playing 800X600.
  
  Sound & music are terrific, you hear the character's footsteps, weapon swings, hits, moans, and 
 cried for help when they are injured. The game also has very good music tracks which really grab 
 you and give you a midevil feel to it.
  
  Overall, the game is trully immersive and profound. I think all aspects of D&D are covered in this 
 game, when talking about 2nd LVL D&D rules... If you are a gamer that has patience and likes CRPG's 
 then you must give this one a try. Don't be sceptic about it because it is old. This is quality 
 and like they say "Quality never goes out of style" ... :-)
  
  ENJOY!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The venerable Bioware Infinity Engine housed many a great game, including the original Baldur's 
 Gate, Baldur's Gate II, the amazing Planescape Torment, and of course the Icewind Dales series. 
 While none of these games lack greatness, some were more great than others. Notably, in my mind, 
 Icewind Dale was probably the best of them all, although Planescape Torment was definitely a deeper 
 RPG and arguably a greater artistic achievement for Black Isle Studios, while the original Icewind 
 Dale was a slimmer, more action oriented RPG.
  
  Where Icewind Dale shines most of all is in its story. Throughout the game you are treated to simply 
 amazing writing, and while the whole game is streamlined compared to games like Baldur's Gate II, 
 for instance, it is not an action RPG. You read plenty, you fight hard battles, and you marvel 
 at beautiful environments, all the while engaged in a story that rocks!
  
  It's a sad state of affairs that RPGs have all but disappeared from PCs, that what is left are 
 action games, massively multiplayer games, and Bioware's own Neverwinter Nights, which unfortunately 
 isn't as compelling a game engine as the Bioware Infinity Engine was. Consoles have replaced the 
 PC, with games like Bioware's own Jade Empire, or Japan's truly epic Xenosaga or Final Fantasy 
 games filling the gap PC developers have left. Whether we'll ever see a great PC RPG again is unknown, 
 but you can still find Icewind Dale on the store shelves, and it's well worth purchasing and playing.
 
  
  GordMose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Toton
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2005 6:47 pm PT
Review:  As you check reviews about this game, you'll hear a lot about it not being like the Baldur's Gate 
 games, but thats for good reason. This game isn't Baldur's Gate, and it wasn't intended to be Baldur's 
 Gate. Therefore, its not suppose to be like Baldur's Gate, so it has succeeded.
  
  Gameplay: After creating your party ( a maximum of 6 characters ) you begin your adventure in the 
 cold cruel world of Icewind Dale. The gameplay revolved mostly around hack n' slash action, with 
 little revelance to exploring or strategy. Your characters gain experience as you kill more enemies, 
 and your characters gain levels at a respectable rate. At some points in the game, action will 
 seize and you will be forced to sit through speeches about nature and evil, but just try to keep 
 yourself focused. Occasionally, but not very often, you may have to think before you attack. Sometimes 
 its better to send in a hidden thief then to charge with your fighters. But you'll be hacking and 
 slashing for the better part of the game.
  
  Graphics: The Infinity Engine, what else can you say? Sure, the iso-metric view looks a tad bit 
 outdated. But you learn to respect the Infinity Engine for what it has done. Thats enough to get 
 you buy the similiar casting graphics and the simple character models. Some nice touches can be 
 found on enemies. Look closely and you'll see that the designers definately spent some time on 
 them.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack for this game is simply stunning, is will keep you connected to the Icewind 
 Dale world. Beautiful and powerful scores leave impressions as you play through the game. However, 
 the same cannot be said about the rest of the sounds. Enemy roars, spell sounds, and weapon clashings 
 get all too familiar after a while. The repetitive battle cries of your characters don't help too 
 much either.
  
  Value: This game will probably attract you to replay maybe once or twice, but after that the fun 
 is dead. The game gets highly linear after one or two playthroughts, so you won't be as highly 
 entertained as you were before. Different races don't really have much of an impact in the game, 
 so you won't be tempted to try different parties.
  
  The Finale: Play this game for what it is and you'll love it. If you go in expecting another Baldur's 
 Gate, you'll be greatly dissapointed. This game isn't Baldur's Gate, and it doesn't need to be.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRaider31
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  The only draw back is that I was playing this game while waiting for Dungeon Siege to come out 
 and once Siege came out I was done with Dale. Not because anything was wrong with Dale its a very 
 strong computer D&D RPG. But Dale also suffers from the standard RPG elements that once I started 
 playing Siege I could not go back to. Siege has me spoiled when it comes to moving from one area 
 to another. Im accustomed now to seamless transfer from one area to another and to go back to 
 the typical RPG with its load times between areas both coming and going, I just couldnt and still 
 cant. Also, the limited customability of your characters, I dont want to import my own pictures 
 I want enough variety built in (aka the SIMS or the Siege) or better yet characters that change 
 over time (ala Fable) . Small things yes, but it is an RPG after all and so such details are important 
 to the experience. I also did not like the standard repetitions of meaningless character banter 
 for standing too long in one place or leaving an inn for adventuring. Unless its meaningful Id 
 rather they not speak. Again, Im not bashing Dale, its a good solid standard RPG especially for 
 when it came out, and I played it when it came out so Im not trying to compare apples to grapes. 
 For its time the graphics were solid, the game as I remember it was relatively stable and bug 
 free. I liked the fact you could write your own back story for your characters even if it couldnt 
 be incorporated into the game play. Fighting, especially in the early goings when your characters 
 were weak, took some thought. You could not just run in willy nilly and neither did your characters 
 whom you had complete control over (not so with Siege which could get annoying from time to time) . 
 Again, well written, programmed, and a decent story too. Good Job for its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  Utilizing the Infinity Engine developed by Bioware, Black Isle Studios brings to Dungeons and Dragons 
 fans a new game set in the world of Faerun. Icewind Dale was released at the end of June of 2000 
 giving the players the ability to create all six of there party members, to lead on an adventure 
 across the Spine of the World, an arctic mountain range north of the area that fans traversed in 
 Baldurs Gate. Wanting to give the fans more, Black Isle developed an expansion about eight months 
 later known as Heart of Winter which added new areas and quests that could be completed during 
 the actual first game. Not feeling that that was enough, Black Isle made an extra expansion for 
 free to their fans called Trials of the Luremaster. Black Isle listened to their fans when they 
 made games and this installment definitely proves it. 
  
  Fans of Baldurs gate and its expansion were treated with a pure dungeon crawl game set in another 
 region of the Forgotten Realms known as Icewind Dale. A region centered around the Ten-Towns, which 
 as you can imagine, is an area where ten trading towns are located. Youll begin your adventure 
 in Easthaven doing simple quests helping out the locals and through accomplishing these goals, 
 youll come upon the main quest of the game to investigate the hidden evil in the lands around 
 Kelvins Cairn. Throughout your travels, youll see famous sites such as Dragons Eye, Dorns Deep, 
 Severed Hand, and many other areas as your warriors and mages progress through the games entirety. 
 Unlike Baldurs Gate, Icewind Dale and its expansions are linear in gameplay where youll never 
 not know where youre going or what you should be doing. This can be seen as a negative for the 
 game, but if you go into the game fully knowing its meant to be a pure dungeon crawl hack and 
 slash, you should have no complaints. The ability to create every person in your party is new in 
 this Infinity Engine Game. The player, from the start, can create all six party members in their 
 group making them Humans, Dwarves, Elves, Halfings, or whatever, and then having the ability to 
 have them all be different classes. Where as in Baldurs Gate, you made one character and then 
 met up with different NPCs being different classes that would join your group and having to deal 
 with what the characters were before they joined your party, in Icewind Dale, you have total freedom 
 over your group. Unlike Baldurs Gate though, youre not able to pick up any NPCs during your travels 
 and have them join your group. Your party of six will remain the same unless one of them dies. 
 The NPCs are just there to talk, sell/buy items, and provide quests to your party. 
  
  The storyline in Icewind Dale and its expansions is better than most taking place around the year 
 1281 DR, the Year of the Cold Soul. For its time, Icewind Dale brought a lot to the table with 
 taking your party of six across the Sea of Moving Ice all the way back to adventure through what 
 is known as Wyrms Tooth. These wonderfully detailed areas are a joy to traverse through with your 
 party. Never knowing what lurks inside each dungeon or cave, always preparing for the next big 
 battle with Faeruns monsters is just a little bit of the fun to be had with Icewind Dale. The 
 special and unique items youll come across, not to mention the powers youll receive from leveling 
 up your party hour after hour is something that make this game hard not to have fun with. Its 
 definitely a classic that will always be remembered from the now bankrupt Black Isle/Interplay 
 Company. 
  
  Utilizing the Infinity Engine, Icewind Dale has some dated graphics, but the pre-rendered backgrounds 
 and the attention that was made to detail in each area is something that every game developer should 
 look at. Black Isle certainly did something right when trying to make the player feel like they 
 were in the frigid north tundra in what is known as the Spine of the World. The level design within 
 the interior dungeons and temples is outstanding and the Infinity Engine once again, brings the 
 pen and paper Advanced Dungeons and Dragons rules to the computer almost flawlessly. One level 
 that youll easily remember your first time through is the Severed Hand where youll travel up 
 each finger in the towering building learning the condemned fate of its inhabitants. Each level 
 with its design and story/background that it tells leaves the player with a lasting impression 
 each time they play through the game.
  
  The soundtrack, which was produced by Jeremy Soule is amazing to say the least. The music is definitely 
 something that brings the player into the atmosphere of the cold north. Each track played throughout 
 the many areas and maps of the game seems to roll out the speakers of the player almost creating 
 a serene sense of imaginative state of mind. Knowing how well the music was produced, Black Isle 
 released a separate CD that could be purchased being the soundtrack to the game. Some voice-over 
 work was done and Black Isle was a company that was known for great voice acting is Icewind Dale 
 is no exception.
  
  Something new that was added with the expansions is the Heart of Fury mode. This mode, which can 
 be selected from the configuration panel at startup, is a playing style much harder than the original 
 but gives the player the ability to reach very high levels with their characters by expanding the 
 level cap in the original game. Also, with the Heart of Fury mode, the player is able to play through 
 the game again with their original characters, which is always fun seeing how difficult the early 
 on game is for your seasoned warriors.
  
  Overall, Icewind Dale is a must buy for any Dungeons and Dragons fan and also anyone who loved 
 the other Infinity Engine Games. Having the ability to create each of your players gives anyone 
 the chance to pick and choose between the different classes offered in the Advanced Dungeons and 
 Dragons rules. Having the wonderful artistic work of the pre-rendered backgrounds, plus the amazing 
 detail to story, and add to that, a wonderful soundtrack, Icewind Dale: Heart of Winter: Trials 
 of the Luremaster is a great way to adventure on your computer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  Once again Black Isle Studios proves it's worth. As far as RPG's go, this is possibly one of the 
 best. The game uses a unique system to control the characters combat. On top of this, the game 
 features an extensive and intriguing storyline, based on the world of Fae'run. 
  
  The Spine of the World is in trauma; an unknown enemy has purged the town of Kuldahar of life. 
 A distress call comes to the remote town of Easthaven and adventurers are dispatched to aid Kuldahar. 
 You are those adventurers. A simple rescue mission leads to a battle to save the entire Spine of 
 the World, and it is a battle you will never forget. 
  
  The character advancement is one of the major aspects of the game and the handling is very different 
 from most other RPG's. All characters in your party (six in total) are created by the player themselves. 
 Each character is assigned a race (for example, Elf or Human) , gender, class (for example, Fighter 
 or Wizard) , allignment (for example, Lawful Good or Chaotic Evil) , and so on. The character advancement 
 is a critical part of the game and it is crucial that the player has a wide range of characters 
 to use.
  
  Although the graphics aren't exactly amazing, they are simple for a reason. The game doesn't neccesarily 
 need brilliant graphics. The 2D graphics work well for the style of game. They run smoothly and 
 enable gamers with low quality PC's to have the experience of this amazing game.
  
  Icewind Dale is an awesome addition to the Forgotten Realms series and extends the role of RPG's 
 in our gaming community to it's limits. For those that love RPG's, this is well worth the money. 
 For your concern, EB Games sells this game for an extremely low amount.
  
  Enjoy! I know I did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxikyd
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 30, 2004 5:20 am PT
Review:  So, Icewind Dale was SUPPOSED to be a role playing game. T his was merely a hack-n-slash, poorly 
 disguised as an RPG. If that's what you're in to, you'll love this game, but after playing Baulder's 
 Gate, I expected more, and Icewind Dale failed to meet my expectations. 
  
  The promise of being able to import your BG character into IWD was not delivered. While I realize 
 that the D&D gaming system was switching from AD&D to D3, I feel that there were promises made 
 to gamers in the save splash screens of BG/BG2 which were not kept.
  
  Graphics were fair, no big improvement over BG, though the winter scenes were cool. 
  
  Gameplay 
 and plot are very linear. There is little control over the characters' destinies, other than what 
 they were going to kill next, the where was laid out for them. It seemed that the moral or ethical 
 decisions of previous games (BG, et al) were out the window, and killing things became the driving 
 motivation in the game. By the time I reached the final scenario, it was less a gaming experience 
 and more of a chore. I was actually hoping the 'heroes' would lose so they'd die and be out of 
 my hair. Not the best view of a game I'm supposed to enjoy playing. All in all... I'll just replay 
 BG again, it was a much better gaming experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2004 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I prefer this game to the sequel, in spite of that fact the sequel is roughly 2 times longer. This 
 game has no pointless filler and very little story. It really is all about the battles and developing 
 a team of characters, and there this games shines. 
  
  The enemies are interesting and varied to fight. It is possible to replay the game with a different 
 kind of team and enjoy the battles with different choices.
  
  The graphics are nothing special, although the 2D painted backrounds are very very well-done. The 
 sounds are often pretty great too. 
  
  Definately get the patches and the "heart of winter" add-on in order to really enjoy this game 
 with improved enemy AI. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
