-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Icewind Dale: Heart of Winter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/icewinddaleheartofwinter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 21, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 7.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 635 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Black Isle Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Feb 19, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its numerous ancillary improvements actually amount to very little value, considering you can finish 
 the expansion quest in just a couple of casual play sessions. 

 Over the last several years, Interplay has gradually established its Black Isle Studios brand as 
 the premier publisher of computer role-playing games. Ever since the science-fiction-themed Fallout 
 in 1997, each of Black Isle Studios' role-playing games has been consistently excellent, and several 
 have already become modern classics: the epic Baldur's Gate, the unforgettable Planescape: Torment, 
 and last year's remarkable sequel, Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn. The original Icewind Dale 
 was also released last year -- actually, only a couple of months before Baldur's Gate II. Since it 
 used BioWare's enduring Infinity engine and bore the Dungeons &amp; Dragons license, some players 
 were skeptical about the game: They feared that it was quickly put together to distract them until 
 Baldur's Gate II's release. Fortunately, that wasn't the case. Icewind Dale turned out to be a 
 fun-filled, distinctively action-packed role-playing game that shared only a superficial similarity 
 to other Infinity-engine games. Unfortunately, the official expansion to Icewind Dale, Heart of 
 Winter, is exactly the sort of product that Black Isle fans were worried Icewind Dale might turn 
 out to be. It's a short-lived, uninspired addition to Icewind Dale that costs nearly as much as 
 the original game did and requires that you have the original installed; yet it offers only a fraction 
 of Icewind Dale's value.           You'll pass through a barbarian camp and a handful of other 
 areas    

 However, you wouldn't know it at first: On the surface, Heart of Winter actually promises a lot 
 of new features. Perhaps the most impressive of these is that it raises Icewind Dale's experience-point 
 cap for player characters such that they can all theoretically reach a maximum level of 30 -- godlike 
 status in the world of Dungeons &amp; Dragons. The expansion offers multiple new special abilities, 
 including a tracking skill for rangers that lets them try to detect an enemy's presence in an area; 
 many new shape-changing abilities for druids; and multiple new spells for clerics and magic users. 
 Heart of Winter also has great production values, much like Icewind Dale before it: The expansion 
 features several new impressive orchestral pieces from the same composer who created Icewind Dale's 
 incredible soundtrack. There are also a lot of new beautifully painted character portraits that 
 you can choose from (though a lot of these have been available for download from Interplay's Web 
 site since Icewind Dale's release) . And the voice acting in Heart of Winter is excellent; it includes 
 several new nonplayer characters who deliver all of their lines convincingly. Heart of Winter even 
 includes an all-new "heart of fury" play mode, which makes all of the enemy creatures much more 
 powerful and is suitable for seasoned players who want to continue on with their built-up characters 
 even after they've finished the game.   

  Heart of Winter's story is based on a minor detail introduced in Icewind Dale. Basically, your 
 party is asked to travel further north and help bring about peace between some powerful barbarian 
 tribes and the nearby community of the Ten-Towns. Soon, you discover evil at the source of the 
 problem -- and so you must finally put an end to this vengeful villain. In doing so, you can either 
 export your characters from Icewind Dale or start afresh with pregenerated high-level characters 
 designed for use with the expansion.           The remorhaz is one of the few new monsters you'll 
 fight    

 In spite of all this, Heart of Winter falls flat as far as the actual game is concerned. The expansion 
 offers only a few new areas to explore, which will collectively require about a dozen hours of 
 your time before you're finished with them. A couple of these areas offer some interesting surprises. 
 At one point, as you pass through a frozen passage, you'll see a ghostly portrait of the blind 
 seer you're seeking materialize momentarily in the reflection of a glacial wall. As in Icewind 
 Dale, the effective use of environmental audio helps bring all these cold, inhospitable places 
 to life. Even so, most of the areas in the expansion simply require that you hike your way through 
 twisting passages that conceal the game's predictably intermittent encounters with groups of monsters. 
 Furthermore, many of these areas simply aren't very interesting; you'll be glad to leave them behind 
 because even if you've played hundreds of hours' worth of Baldur's Gate II since the last time 
 you played Icewind Dale, you'll still recall many of the encounters you'll face in Heart of Winter. 
 When you first squared off against a frost giant in Icewind Dale, it was quite a showdown: The 
 enormous bearded warrior stood many times larger than anything you'd seen up until that point. 
 When you battle the exact same creature in Heart of Winter, you'll be less than impressed. Many 
 other monsters from Heart of Winter are lifted straight from Icewind Dale, such as polar bears, 
 yetis, and snow trolls. In fact, aside from some barbarian warriors, a few new undead foes, the 
 large wormlike remorhaz, and the final battle, there are scarce few new challenges to speak of 
 in Heart of Winter.    

 Worst of all, these new encounters demand nothing from you that you don't already know how to do 
 if you've already finished Icewind Dale, let alone Baldur's Gate II. For the most part, you can 
 simply order your main fighters to attack head-on. Your magic-users can provide some support, though 
 a lot of the creatures you face are resistant to many types of magic. When you're fighting the 
 undead, you'll want to use your cleric's holy powers against them. In fact, except for the battles 
 against the undead (which you'll face in droves early on in the expansion) , you'll have little 
 trouble defeating any of your foes in Heart of Winter. Icewind Dale and Heart of Winter both deliberately 
 avoid some of the more involved, more tactical combat elements of Baldur's Gate and its sequel. 
 You won't have to contend with level-draining attacks nor will you have to think about how to breach 
 an enemy wizard's powerful arcane defenses. But since your characters are already so powerful at 
 the beginning of Heart of Winter (assuming you carry them over from the conclusion of the original 
 Icewind Dale quest) , you won't really have to think much at all. Your fighters, assuming you have 
 a couple in your party, will do all the work for you.           Barrow wights are vulnerable to 
 clerics    

 One of the best things about Icewind Dale was that you'd get to build up your weak first-level neophytes 
 into extremely powerful high-level warriors over the course of the adventure. The game's strategy 
 was in knowing the limits of your party's power at any given time, since your characters would 
 gain experience relatively quickly. This too is gone in Heart of Winter: Since it's such a short 
 quest, you'll gain just a few more levels during the expansion, which probably won't have a noticeable 
 effect on your characters' performance. You'll have scarce few opportunities to put any of your 
 new spells to use, you'll find little or no purpose for the new magic items you'll find, and there 
 will be hardly any occasion to apply your new skills.   

  The expansion does offer a few other benefits. You can press a key that highlights all visible 
 doors and dropped items on the screen. Heart of Winter also reintroduces some of the gameplay improvements 
 that first appeared in Baldur's Gate II. These include convenient items for storing gems, spell 
 scrolls, and potions, as well as the ability to hide the game's interface bars, so you can see 
 the action in a full-screen view. Like Baldur's Gate II, the expansion also supports higher resolutions 
 than the original Icewind Dale's locked 640x480-resolution view. All of these enhancements are 
 convenient; none are necessary. They would have made the retail version of Icewind Dale a little 
 better or made for a nice, free downloadable patch -- but they're not noteworthy in a $30 expansion. 
           Some of the scenes are interesting, but the game is too short    

 The fundamental problem isn't that Heart of Winter is a poor game, because it's not. Its battles, 
 its plot, and its impressive production values are all more or less in line with the high standards 
 set by Icewind Dale. But its numerous ancillary improvements actually amount to very little value, 
 considering you can finish the expansion in just a couple of casual play sessions. If you're used 
 to marathon sessions with Baldur's Gate II, or with any Black Isle role-playing game for that matter, 
 then you'll be disappointed by how much shorter Heart of Winter is by comparison. It's true that 
 some players will probably like the inflated challenge of the heart of fury mode after they've 
 finished the expansion quest, particularly because it lets you play through both the expansion 
 and the original Icewind Dale with increased difficulty and proportionally augmented experience 
 rewards. But the mode will be too difficult for a lot of players, while most everyone else won't 
 find it very interesting, since the battles in the game are still scripted. In fact, even the heart 
 of fury mode seems like an afterthought, since you can only toggle it on and off from an external 
 configuration utility, not from within the actual game. In the end, it's not that Heart of Winter 
 isn't worth your time, because it really doesn't take much -- the problem is it just isn't worth 
 your money.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I also had a bitter taste in my mouth.. but the more I played and 
 replayed.. I found the game to be a diamond in the rough.. Sure BG2 overshadows it.. but this should 
 be taken apart from the other games. It has a very engaging storyline and the infinity engine was 
 well used here.. The game is more challenging than BG was and gives great battles comparable to 
 those in ToB. Together with HoW, you must not overlook this game.. considering the lackluster storylines 
 in games like NWN and Shadows I have to say IWD1 is superb. The collector packs give both IWD1, 
 HoW, and IWD2 (although you will find IWD2 a bit less story-driven and more like the same quality 
 storyline as is found in Shadows [expansion to NWN] ) This game may not give you the replay value 
 BG had.. but it is enough to provide hundreds of hours if you want to try out each character class.. 
 plus the added benefit of creating the perfect party to dominate the game :)
  
  Sure the expansion pack doesn't deliver much like ToB did.. but you have to admit it gives you 
 more great IWD adventures.. and further enhancement of your characters.
  
  Plus the side-story is very good considering other modern ala next-gen RPG games.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  For those unfamiliar with Icewind Dale, it is a Dungeons &amp; Dragons RPG along the lines of Baldur's 
 Gate, (though in this game, you create your whole 6 person party rather than pick up NPCs along 
 the way) where you take a party of adventurers through dungeons, wilderness, caves and castles 
 to save the towns of Icewind Dale from an evil which is spreading over the land. Heart of Winter 
 is an expansion set for IWD which is bought (a la Opposing Force for Half-Life) and Trials of the 
 Luremaster is a downloadable expansion for Heart of Winter (HOW is required for you to play this 
 add-on) . Trials recommends characters levels 11-18 but I would not recommend the level 11 end as 
 it is not a simple thing to complete this.
  I went through TOTL with my crash-n-bash squad (my squad from before I discovered the wonders of 
 ranged weaponry) . This took a while, especially since I don't use cheats. There are some battles 
 which will challenge the best adventurers and some neat puzzles which are very different from those 
 normally found in IWD. You volunteer to go to purge this haunted castle for this little halfling 
 gentleman you meet in the inn in HOW. He takes you there (note - stock up on stuff before you go 
 as his shop is not that impressive and the ONLY way out of this add-on is to finish it!) and you 
 get attacked momentarily after arriving. It goes from there. The spirit which haunts this castle 
 (the Luremaster) gives you riddles which you must solve in order to figure out what to do. Normal 
 puzzles in Icewind Dale are find the key, then find the door is goes to. Not so here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrog-III
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Heart of Winter is a good expansion to Icewind Dale. It not only adds an extra whole part to the 
 game but if you play the original with it installed lots more special items are to be found.
  
  Whilst these extra items are good, chances are that having completed the original with a really 
 cool character you're not going to want to play the whole thing again before the expansion for 
 those extra few items.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is far too short and although it still contains all the need for strategic 
 thinking I think Black Isle tried to rush this a bit. 
  
  This is good as long as you only spend a few /$ but don't pay too much on it! 
  
  Other than 
 this, the expansion is great and if you really like Icewind Dale games and other RPGs you should 
 buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  Icewind Dale was a fun dungeon crawler; so Black Isle thought an expansion would be a good idea: 
 enter Heart of Winter. Heart of Winter can either be set during Icewind Dale (if you so choose) 
 during a full game or after IWD during an expansion only game. The expansion begins at Lonelywood; 
 another of the ten towns of Icewind Dale. Your party is greeted by a Barbarian shaman who tells 
 you of a most dire situation and that the Barbarian tribes may unite against the ten towns. Since 
 no one else can do anything right; it's up to your party of spelunkers to save the day.
  
  Heart of Winter plays exactly the same as Icewind Dale as can be expected. The expansion adds several 
 new areas of Icewind Dale for you to explore (only accessible during the expansion however) . Heart 
 of Winter also features an option that makes both Icewind Dale and Heart of Winter much more challenging 
 called 'Heart of Fury' where enemies are more powerful and you get more experience for killing 
 them. The problem with HoW is it is just so short; you can finish the expansion within a few hours, 
 but fortunately Black Isle released a free downloadable expansion for HoW called 'Trials of the 
 Luremaster' which extends the length of HoW by a couple hours or so.
  
  The graphics in HoW are improved by the inclusion of 3d hardware support (what little it does) 
 and the ability to increase your resolution. There are several new enemies added in the expansion 
 and they look decent enough.
  
  The audio of HoW is just as good as IWD. The music is once again composed by Jeremy Soule and the 
 voice acting is the same quality as the original game. The sound effects are the same, but that 
 should be of no surprise and the enviromental ambience is also the same level of quality as Icewind 
 Dale.
  
  Icewind Dale: Heart of Winter is a worthy purchase if you own Icewind Dale; it adds some nice new 
 features and the expansion storyline is good as well as the well designed areas featured in the 
 final product. If you liked Icewind Dale then give Heart of Winter a shot; if you didn't like Icewind 
 Dale then Heart of Winter won't change your mind for it is just as linear and combat focused as 
 Icewind Dale; just a lot shorter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxikyd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 30, 2004 5:17 am PT
Review:  So, Icewind Dale was SUPPOSED to be a role playing game. T his was merely a hack-n-slash, poorly 
 disguised as an RPG. If that's what you're in to, you'll love this game, but after playing Baulder's 
 Gate, I expected more, and Icewind Dale failed to meet my expectations. 
  
  The promise of being able to import your BG character into IWD was not delivered. While I realize 
 that the D&D gaming system was switching from AD&D to D3, I feel that there were promises made 
 to gamers in the save splash screens of BG/BG2 which were not kept.
  
  Graphics were fair, no big improvement over BG, though the winter scenes were cool. 
  
  Gameplay 
 and plot are very linear. There is little control over the characters' destinies, other than what 
 they were going to kill next, the where was laid out for them. It seemed that the moral or ethical 
 decisions of previous games (BG, et al) were out the window, and killing things became the driving 
 motivation in the game. By the time I reached the final scenario, it was less a gaming experience 
 and more of a chore. I was actually hoping the 'heroes' would lose so they'd die and be out of 
 my hair. Not the best view of a game I'm supposed to enjoy playing. All in all... I'll just replay 
 BG again, it was a much better gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2004 10:15 pm PT
Review:  
  I prefer the first Icewind Dale and this add-on to the sequel, in spite of that fact the sequel 
 is roughly 2 times longer. This game has no pointless filler and very little story. It really is 
 all about the battles and developing a team of characters, and there this games shines. 
  
  The enemies are interesting and varied to fight. It is possible to replay the game with a different 
 kind of team and enjoy the battles with different choices.
  
  The graphics are nothing special, although the 2D painted backrounds are very very well-done. The 
 sounds are often pretty great too. 
  
  Definately get the patches and the "heart of winter" add-on in order to really enjoy this game 
 with improved enemy AI. When the add-on first came out, it was way over-priced. At this point, 
 this game can easily be found for cheap. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
