-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Icewind Dale II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/icewinddale2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  6, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,797 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Black Isle Studios
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 26, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like its predecessor, Icewind Dale II is simply a great role-playing game. 

 The days leading up to the release of Icewind Dale in June 2000 didn't make the odds of the game 
 being a success look very good. Billed as sort of a dumbed-down hack-and-slash version of the epic 
 fantasy role-playing game Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale also happened to hit the shelves on exactly 
 the same day as Blizzard Entertainment's very highly anticipated Diablo II. Surprisingly, Icewind 
 Dale wasn't drowned out by Diablo II, but instead seemed to ride that game's wave of success. Good 
 thing, too, because Icewind Dale was a great game that deserved an audience. Though heavily focused 
 on action, it was anything but dumbed-down, and it featured some impressive production values for 
 good measure.           Icewind Dale II features plenty of great tactical battles.    

 Arriving more than two years later, Icewind Dale II faces similar adversity. This has already been 
 an outstanding year for computer role-playing games, thanks to some extraordinary games -- particularly 
 The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind and Neverwinter Nights -- that have undoubtedly raised the standards 
 for the RPG genre. At a glance, Icewind Dale II doesn't look like much of a match for these ambitious 
 games, mostly because Icewind Dale II still uses the ancient Infinity Engine first seen in Baldur's 
 Gate in 1998. "Ancient" is perhaps too pejorative, actually -- "immortal" may be a better word to 
 describe the engine, because the fact is, Icewind Dale II plays great. And though the likes of 
 Morrowind and Neverwinter Nights have proved that a role-playing game can play  and  look great, 
 most RPG fans would agree that good looks aren't as important as excellent gameplay.   

  Like its predecessor, Icewind Dale II is a Dungeons &amp; Dragons-based role-playing game set in 
 the popular Forgotten Realms universe. It offers a similar blend of role-playing and pure, intense 
 tactical combat, but it weaves an entirely new story and poses a more significant challenge. Though 
 action-oriented by all means, Icewind Dale II is a considerably long game, and it will provide 
 plenty of lasting value even to those expecting a lot of bang for their role-playing buck.   

 
  Icewind Dale II does have a lot in common with its predecessor. It features many of the same graphical 
 and aural elements as its 2-year-old forebear, and it basically has a similar pacing and style. 
 However, unlike the original Icewind Dale, the sequel happens to use the relatively new 3rd Edition 
 Dungeons &amp; Dragons rules, which have much more depth than the classic 2nd Edition rules featured 
 in games like Icewind Dale and Baldur's Gate II. At the very least, the new rules make the gameplay 
 of Icewind Dale II noticeably different than that of its predecessor, enough so that it succeeds 
 in providing an experience that's original in its own right.           You can choose from several 
 new character races, like the drow.    

  Icewind Dale II is structured much like the first game. You begin by creating a party of up to 
 six different characters, though you have the helpful option to quickly select a prefabricated 
 party if you want to jump right in. All characters begin their lives as first-level neophytes who 
 are sometimes barely able to hit the broad side of a barn, much less a savage goblin. So you'd 
 better cross your fingers, because the game doesn't tarry in putting you into an action-packed 
 situation. In fact, you'll be fighting almost from the start, in your efforts to defend a humble 
 town from an invasion by the vicious green-skinned races.   

  The plot thickens, the combat gets more intense, you gain levels, you find better equipment, and 
 you learn better spells (several hundred are available) , and suddenly you realize that your party 
 has grown immensely powerful. Like any great role-playing game, Icewind Dale II offers a very subtle 
 yet somehow palpable sense of continuous character development. Experience points are hard-earned 
 from combat and from quests, and changes in experience level tend to be few and far between (though 
 more frequent than in 2nd Edition D&amp; D) , yet you'll still get the impression that your party 
 is gradually but noticeably growing stronger and stronger. Interestingly, the early stages of Icewind 
 Dale II are some of the hardest, as you'll be challenged just to keep your stalwart band alive 
 through each battle. Later on, death itself will hardly be an issue, as you'll have such mighty 
 spells at your disposal that you'll feel as though virtually nothing will be able to defeat you. 
 The fact that you'll still have to overcome some very stiff challenges just goes to show how expertly 
 paced Icewind Dale II generally is. There's nothing like feeling you're on top of the world in 
 an RPG, only to come face-to-face with a truly mighty foe who's more than your equal.       
      You'll spend a lot of time fighting your way through each detailed area.    

  Icewind Dale II offers many more choices when creating and developing your party than its predecessor 
 did. Many more character races are available, including the ever-popular dark elves (also known 
 as the drow) , as well as different subraces of dwarves, gnomes, and, of course, elves. Some of 
 these character races are quite powerful from the get-go, but they're balanced out by having an 
 experience penalty. More character classes are available than before, too, namely the 3rd Edition 
 barbarian, monk, and sorcerer classes. The old standbys are all still here, of course, and thanks 
 to the 3rd Edition revisions, they're even more distinctive than ever. Wizards, clerics, paladins, 
 fighters, druids, bards, rogues -- all these character types and more are interesting and viable 
 in Icewind Dale II. Some character classes seem far more powerful than others -- 3rd Edition fighters 
 are incredibly strong, for example -- but you'll still have to form a diversified group of characters 
 for best results. As you rise in level, you can customize your characters with various special 
 feats and other abilities, as well as by multi-classing your character -- that is, learning an entirely 
 new profession. Like in the previous game, the fact that you can play the game using entirely different 
 types of characters adds some compelling replay value to the sequel.   

  There's replay value to be found in other areas, too. Icewind Dale II offers a feature first introduced 
 in the Heart of Winter expansion to the original game, called the heart of fury mode, that ramps 
 up the game's difficulty considerably but also awards your characters with even greater experience 
 bonuses. As before, a cooperative multiplayer option is also available, letting up to six players 
 control the party.   

  The main draw is still the standard single-player game. Though the Infinity Engine is undeniably 
 showing signs of age, at the same time, Icewind Dale II's developers clearly are very adept at 
 making it do what it does best. In fact, in many ways Icewind Dale II represents the best use of 
 the Infinity Engine's prerendered, isometric settings to date. Each of the game's big areas is 
 complex and extensively detailed, often packing in far more quests, encounters, and battles than 
 you'd ever think were possible. The combat is persistently challenging and rarely straightforward, 
 and the occasional puzzle is added for a good change of pace. The areas take a long time to get 
 through, and yet you don't have to do too many annoying things like constantly search for traps 
 or go back the same way you came in. It's true that you'll sometimes be forced to reload saved 
 games just to gain prescience of a combat situation, but that's been the case with pretty much 
 every other Infinity Engine game. In any event, Icewind Dale II remains fun to play.   

  Like the original, Icewind Dale II is a mostly linear game that's split up into chapters, and throughout 
 them, the game provides an engrossing story that keeps you focused on the action and interested 
 in the circumstances. At the same time, Icewind Dale II does a better job than its predecessor 
 of letting you role-play. The addition of skills like bluffing, intimidation, and diplomacy work 
 their way directly into the dialogue options that are available. So, for example, depending on 
 whether you lead with your neutral evil human fighter or your lawful good elven paladin, you'll 
 often get different results in your conversations with the game's colorful non-player characters. 
 Every Infinity Engine game has been plot-driven, and Icewind Dale II is no exception. You'll be 
 happy to know, then, that the game is very well written, offering up a number of strong characters 
 and serious themes but also providing a healthy dose of comic relief on occasion.   

  If you've played Morrowind or Neverwinter Nights lately, let alone any of this year's many graphically 
 impressive games, then starting off in Icewind Dale II will be a little tough on your senses. The 
 game's graphics really don't look like much at first. The small, awkwardly animated 2D characters, 
 the ugly black fog of war covering each area, and the flat (albeit detailed) scenery makes for 
 a game that looks, at best, decent. However, a newly revised interface, now visible only along 
 the bottom edge of the screen, is a big improvement on the spread-out interface of all previous 
 Infinity Engine games, and many of the locales you'll visit actually do look quite good, though 
 that doesn't change the fact that Icewind Dale II generally looks dated. The game doesn't even 
 offer much in the way of new character portraits to choose from when building your party, opting 
 instead to recycle most of the old ones. Fortunately, the old ones still look great. Of further 
 note, the retail release of Icewind Dale II does suffer from some technical issues, which we experienced 
 in the form of occasional crashes to desktop. Also, amidst the game's many twisting passageways, 
 the pathfinding for your characters can get pretty bad, requiring you to micromanage their march. 
           Icewind Dale II will satisfy fans of the original and D&amp; D fans in general.    

  Though Icewind Dale II mostly uses recycled sound effects and player character voices, the game 
 otherwise lives up to the very high standards for audio set forth by previous Black Isle Studios 
 role-playing games. A stirring, impressive symphonic soundtrack filled with soaring strings evokes 
 the same sense of grandeur and adventure as the score from the original Icewind Dale, yet with 
 some distinctly different touches. Jeremy Soule, the composer of Icewind Dale soundtrack (as well 
 as the scores for this year's Dungeon Siege, Morrowind, and Neverwinter Nights) , didn't actually 
 do the music for this sequel, but his replacement, Inon Zur, does a truly fantastic job that's 
 perhaps even better than Soule's effort in the original Icewind Dale. Meanwhile, the voice acting 
 in Icewind Dale II is as great as you've perhaps come to expect from a Black Isle Studios role-playing 
 game, though there aren't too many celebrities in the voice-over cast this time, unless you count 
 Gabrielle Carteris,  Beverly Hills, 90210 's Andrea Zuckerman.   

  Like its predecessor, Icewind Dale II is simply a great role-playing game. The designers clearly 
 understood what role-playing gamers want to see and experience in such a game, and they provided 
 plenty of it. The game somehow manages to be long despite having such a brisk pace, and the balance 
 between the story and the action is well maintained. The action itself might appear to be all mindless 
 hacking and slashing, with your small party often having to take on droves of enemies, but in truth, 
 clever tactics are required to make it through to the game's conclusion. So despite Icewind Dale 
 II's somewhat antiquated presentation, it's still very easy to recommend to anyone who's enjoyed 
 previous Black Isle role-playing games -- or any of this year's other great RPGs, for that matter. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: T_isj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  If you are a rpg fan this is a great treat. D & D fans or not... this is just a fun game you can 
 pour hours of your life into and not feel ashamed. Yes it's a dated game, but seriously you can't 
 find a better time exploring and feeling like your actually connecting with your characters. Customization 
 for nowadays may be, like stated above, cosmetically dated... basic change hair style and color, 
 but the spells you get to use and weapons you get to equip make it an epic game. Quests are all 
 fun and challenging, not hard, and allow a different kind of experience. Fans of the Baulder's 
 Gate franchise will recognize the similarities, but still this is expansive and fun to play. Only 
 bad thing I can say about the game, is that you really don't notice the 4-6 hours you just used 
 in front of your keyboard as this game really sucks you into the story. I can honestly say it has 
 been an absolute joy to play. Agree or not this game was/ is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thibbledorfP
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Let me first say I am a huge fan of the Baldurs Gate series of games. The heavy, entertaining role-playing 
 was excellent. Icewind Dale 1 was also great for me, as a fun hack-and-slash. But the sequel was 
 a major dissapointment. There are fun aspects, especially the character the creation and the first 
 chapter of the game. But it does not last
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics feature good design, it is classic Infinity Engine stuff, although slightly less grand 
 than the BG2 or IWD1 graphics, for some reason. The technical aspect of the graphics was old at 
 the time, but for fans of the IE or old-school graphics, it will not matter. But for tech-heads, 
 be warned about the old-school graphics. Personally, I love the IE graphics.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound was great but just short of excellent. There was voice acting for a few major characters, 
 and it was good like all of the IE games. Effects were fine. Sound was good, consisting of soaring 
 orchestral tunes. However, it was below the standard set by the perfect music of IWD1.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The character creation is awesome! There are a large variety of races and classes 
 to play, and real depth and innovation in terms of balancing. The first chapter is witty, well-designed, 
 has good role-playing elements, and generally is a real charmer. After that the game falls apart. 
 The charisma skills lose all importance after the first chapter, there are only a few charisma 
 checks throughout the game, and the character that talks during the checks is random! So having 
 social skills is a gimmick. The dialogue and quest design fall flat after the first chapter. It 
 is simply a hack-and-slash fest. The battles are challening all the way through, and are generally 
 fun. However towards the end they are too hard, and rely on powergaming characters to get through. 
 I am a veteran of BG1-2 and IWD1, all of which I played on core difficulty without cheating. IWD1 
 had great challenging battles, but some of that great design was lost for the sequel towards the 
 end. But I should mention, for the majority of the game the battles in IWD2 are excellent and feature 
 great strategy (orc war-drums, anyone?) . Innovative monsters abound (worg-riders) . 
  
  But the main flaw is the lack of a good story, atmosphere and story design. Too many of its cool 
 features were gimmicky. The game just loses its heart too quickly, and locations and dungeons seem 
 to endlessly roll by, without any real incentive to play the game. The pieces of the game are good, 
 but when cobbled together like this, do not have the magic of IWD1 or the BG series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gorgon_
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Ice Wind Dale (the first one) was boring. It had no history at all and all you had to do is killing 
 a miriad of monsters. That's all. Well, in this second part of the game we have to do the same 
 again, BUT now we find a better engine and D&D 3.5 rules... cool? No, no way. This game has a big 
 problem: the PC creation is much more amusing than the very game. And man, THIS is a big problem. 
 I mean it, I enjoyed very much creating all my characters, what the f*ck, I can even made a drow!! 
 But when the game starts and you play through that horrible and nonsense history... well... you 
 can do nothing but send to hell your cool drow team. 
  
  Oh! I almost forgot... The game difficulty is excessive. I killed Firkraag with a level 13 group 
 and no cheating (in BG2) and I found this Ice Wind Dale 2 too much difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Icewind Dale II proves that using an old game engine still rocks. If you would say Baldur's Gate 
 plays like Fallout in the RPG style, then Icewind Dale II plays like Fallout Tactics. Combat is 
 the primary source of entertainment here as it features lots of fighting in many different scenarios 
 allowing diverse tactical approaches. Basically plays the same as the first Icewind Dale just that 
 it uses a new 3rd edition AD&amp; D rules. Dunno the difference though I felt the combat is more 
 satisfying here, maybe because the characters grow stronger and faster in this game.
  
  Love the soundtrack as it gives you a quality and grandness similar to the score of the Lord of 
 the Rings that glorify this combat heavy adventure in Icewind Dale II. Sound effects are repetitive 
 from the previous game but it doesn't matter. It's also worth playing if you're a fan of tactical 
 combat like Silent Storm or Jagged Alliance. You could get it at a bargain price now.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Black Isle Studios was one of the best if not the best computer games developer in history. Among 
 their best achievements stands Icewind Dale set in Forgotten Realms and based on Advanced Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons system. The sequel, although fairly differs from its predecessor is not only another 
 great adventure but is also significantly better than the first part.
  
  The major change that everybody will see shortly after starting the game is that the D&amp; D ruleset 
 has been upgraded from AD&amp; D 2nd edition to D&amp; D 3rd edition. At first I wasn't quite content 
 about it. It takes some time to get use to it, but when that happens you don't want to go back 
 to previous edition.
  
  The story is once again saving the world from great evil - this time, as it first seems, goblin 
 hordes - but after revealing some more plot elements the whole story becomes a little more complex 
 and interesting. Still far away from the greatness of Baldur's Gate 2 but nevermind that ;) There 
 are many characters and places from Icewind Dale which is a very nice thing for loyal fans of the 
 series.
  
  Graphics is slightly better than in the mentioned BG2 with 800x600 as a default screen resolution 
 (however 1024x768 is a lot better) and everything generally improved in comparison to first IWD 
 including backgrounds, animations and spell effects. Also HUD got greatly improved which is now 
 placed only at the bottom of the screen instead of around it. All the buttons are very well placed 
 and every bit of space is used very good. Due to this finally in an Infinity game you can see quite 
 a wide view of a terrain.
  
  Sound is a mixture of old stuff from IWD and some new sounds and of course new voices (there are 
 also voices from Heart of Winter ) . Music consists of epic symphonic tracks and similar things 
 just like in the first part. It's hard to say if it's better or not, I'd say it's just as good 
 as in previous game.
  
  From the new things, there are new classes and races (and sub-races) so you probably would like 
 to create a new team from scratch instead of importing your team from IWD which is naturally easily 
 doable. Game is of course loaded with dozens if not hundreds new items, new enemies and redesigned 
 spells - oh, how much I love horrid wilting :D
  
  Not going into more details the game is awesome and if you played the first part or BioWare's Baldur's 
 Gate games you know what to expect and that is a great, great RPG with solid story, complex character 
 development and outstanding combat - even if the final boss is unfortunately only just a little 
 bit harder than in Shadows of Amn while I was expecting something more challenging. It's definitely 
 worth playing for both hardcore players and just RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlstar
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  the main problem with this was it had the weakest story of all rpgs and that is what is needed 
 to make them good. no story equals just another hack and slash that grows old very quickly. it 
 really goes to show that something good can be ruined in the pursuit of money. maybe if they paid 
 people to work on it instead of just getting a machine to go through the motions of putting together 
 a set formular of failed ideas from older games or even worst ideas from the cutting room floor. 
 i saw this game in the bargin bin for ten dollars and just walked away. it would have to be about..... 
 One dollar i think for me to pick it up. not the worst game out there but the most dissapointing 
 i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  IWD 2 uses the archaic though structurally sound infinity engine. This engine brought us great 
 classics like BG1, Tales of the Sword Coast, BG2, Throne of Bhaal, Icewind Dale, and Heart of Winter. 
 However the graphics aside, as well as the sound/music, IWD2 lacks what is required most.... a 
 enthralling storyline. This is perhaps the most important aspect when producing a game on a old 
 engine. This is what IWD2 does not do.. and why it gives us a lackluster RPG experience. It is 
 a good game.. much better story than NWN original, but lacking enough purpose that is necessary 
 for a great game. The game does use the 3rd edition ruleset.. but does so less so than NWN.. which 
 is one thing NWN did better.. gameplay. It's better than other games like Lionheart or Temple of 
 Elemental Evil... but lacks that pisazz that games like NWN and KOTOR/2 have. To be comparative 
 the storyline is as gripping as shadows was.. which is at least decent but not as engaging as Hordes 
 in terms of combat. If your looking for a great RPG game.. IWD2 is just decent .. you may want 
 to look elsewhere for story elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I liked Icewind Dale, and even the largely criticized Heart of Winter expansion. Icewind Dale II 
 which was the final game in the aged Bioware Infinity Engine was one of Black Isle's final products 
 before they were shut down by Interplay. Too bad they didn't go out with a bang.
  
  Icewind Dale II is set a few decades after the original game. It's set in the region of Icewind 
 Dale (I bet you never would have guessed that) , and once again everyone is screwed. Even the cats. 
 Your party of adventurers (of whom you once again create yourself) are mercenaries hired in Luskan 
 to travel to Targos and aid in the defense as there are tons of Goblins that are using Targos as 
 a way of venting pent up anger. Your party happens to be the only mercenaries who get to Targos 
 alive (don't main characters just have all of the luck?) . Anyway, the plot is pretty standard stuff, 
 but you'll find that it just drags on and on and never really goes anywhere of any importance throughout 
 the majority of the plot, a bit like the Playstation's Chrono Cross.
  
  The gameplay is classic Infinity Engine RPG hack and slash. Unlike the past games, IWD II uses 
 the third edition Dungeons and Dragons rules (is there even really a difference between the second 
 and third editions?) so it gets a lot of praise for that. Unfortunately I noticed little difference 
 beyond the new races, and classes. Anyway, the controls and interface are still very reminiscent 
 of an RTS, and like the original game IWD II places a heavier focus on combat. IWD II is also longer 
 than IWD and HoW combined, but you'll find that most of this extra time comes from killing even 
 more monsters, and finding keys for locked doors. I always love a classic key search! Heart of 
 Fury also makes its grand return allowing you to up the difficulty for more experienced parties. 
 If you can actually bother to play through this game once to get a party to that point, you have 
 my respect. Icewind Dale II feels like more of the same, with a lot more tedium involved.
  
  The graphics... not much has changed since the past infinity engine games. The interface is 
 more similar to 1998's Planescape: Torment. One odd thing about IWD II is how 3d hardware mode 
 isn't available. 3d hardware isn't important in an entirely 2d game like Icewind Dale II, but in 
 Baldur's Gate II, and Icewind Dale with Heart of Winter installed the game was more pleasing to 
 look at with smooth fog of war, and transparent spell effects. I guess I'm just picky.
  
  The audio is probably the best part of the game. The music isn't as great as the originals score, 
 but it is still an excellent soundtrack, and the voice acting is superb. The sound effects are 
 the same as all of the other infinity engine games, so those are great.
  
  Icewind Dale II is a disappointing sequel. It could have been great, but the story and gameplay 
 were both unnecessarily stretched out giving us a tedious and dull return to the majestic, and 
 mystical Icewind Dale. It would have helped if the story was at all interesting, but Black Isle 
 slipped up a lot in their final days and Icewind Dale II will hopefully not overshadow Black Isle's 
 truly spectacular titles such as Fallout, and Planescape: Torment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The game play is awsome. The challenge is great. I love the graphics. I love the strategy. It is 
 one of the best games ever, but I've played better. I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys 
 adventures, challenges, and loads of fun. I suggest getting a strategy guide for this game because 
 it helps ALOT unless you like to play around and figure out things for your self. If you buy and 
 play this game I hope you enjoy it.! ~Ignore the rest of this~
  Game Spot is saying I gotta right 100 words and I don't know what else to write so I'm just filling 
 up space. They should lower it down to about 75 words. Oh well.
  ~Stop ignoring~
  
  Enjoy Ice Wind Dale II, it is one of the best ever!
  
  -Attilio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I have only recently purchased this game, but I had meant to for a long time, because I, like many 
 others, are a huge Baldur's Gate fan. I compare this game often to Baldur's Gate in many ways.
 
  
  In the game the character development is VERY important. You often have difficulty determining 
 what feat to take, which skill to increase, and with attricute to enhance be cause all these elements 
 can make or break any hero though not immediately but eventually the combined decisions add up, 
 for the better or worse.
  
  The story is very immersive and many side quests and events tie into the main plot. This makes 
 the plot more three dimension and makes it more fluid. Often you will have to make choices that 
 give a possitive/negative result in the end. Again, there are many choices and you must consider 
 your actions carefully. An exeptional amount of time was taken on the dialogue so expect to do 
 alot of reading, and skipping through the reading can cause you to lose important information.
 
  
  Overall, any Baldur''s Gate fan will enjoy this game, and anyone new to this style of game will 
 find it a refreshingly new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeseball123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Like a lot of other people, when I first played the original Icewind Dale I was disappointed. It 
 lack the ground-breaking element of Baldur's Gate and the immersive storyline. Yet when one compares 
 Icewind Dale II to Baldur's Gate II, it's quite a bit different. A lot of the small things have 
 been changed for the better as well as big ones, but primarily I have to say that I absolutely 
 love the Third Edition AD&D rules. The plot of IWDII is, admittedly, not really of the standard 
 of the BG series and the lack of any banter between party members does lower this game's score 
 for me. Making a summary of key points:
  
  Gameplay - as I've already said, the relative inferiority of the plot compared with the BG series 
 and the lack of the funny conversation known and loved from BGII and Throne of Bhaal bring this 
 down, but other than that it's excellent, the new ruleset makes the game much more accessible and 
 battles can be a lot more fun, so 8/10 seemed fair.
  
  Graphics - utterly flawless. A lot of people don't seem to understand that much of the point of 
 the Infinity Engine is that the 2-Dness of the game means that it relies upon hand-painted backgrounds, 
 hence the better the background, the better the graphics. Since the developers have gone beyond 
 the call of duty with the effort in drawing these, each area is stunning to behold, 10/10 here.
 
  
  Sound - um, come on. From the splendid battle music right down to the delightful 'splat' when an 
 enemy is cut to pieces, this is a clear 10, and it's what I expect with the brilliance of the BG 
 and SoA soundtracks.
  
  Value - I've seen this game (pre-owned, but it doesn't matter) in Gamestation for 99p. Can't say 
 fairer than that, can I?
  
  I just wish they'd made an Icewind Dale III... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserk202
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Icewind Dale 2 is a RPG and a Dungeon and Dragon game. It is also a game that did not deserve all 
 the attention that it should have had but did not.
  
  The graphics in the game are done well for the type of game it is. The terrain, buildings, and 
 scenery are probably the best part about the game. The character models are done well, but in my 
 opinion they could have been better. The monsters and demons you will fight have lots of detail 
 and the best looking ones for this type of game. A big improvement in graphics since the first 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is something that most RPG or dungeon and dragon fans should be familiar with, but 
 just in case you are not familiar, here is a simple piece of information about the gameplay. You 
 get to choose your characters race from a list of different races, each have their own unique abilities. 
 You then get to choose their class from a list of classes, again each with their own unique abilities. 
 You get to choose their feats, and then you can power up your character with points that can be 
 spent on strength, charisma, dexterity and much more.
  
  The storyline in the game is simple, but very long. You start the game off as a group of mercenaries 
 that have to save the town of Targos, but after doing that, you set off on an adventure that will 
 keep you playing for hours and hours.
  
  There is a lot of replay value, depending on how you look at it. If you are a new fan to this kind 
 of game or genre, then you might be focused on just beating the game. So there is no real replay 
 value for you. If you are a fan of the series and are looking to beat the game with different classes 
 and races, then there is tons of replay value, for there will never be the same game twice. Unless 
 you pick the exact same cast of characters.
  
  Overall, Icewind Dale 2 is a game that should have had more fame and glory, but did not. The multiplayer 
 mode is alright, but I would stay with single player. The game can take very long or very short, 
 depending on if you know the type of game very well, or if you are new to the game series. The 
 game can be purchased for about $10, so I recommend getting this game even if you have not tried 
 the first game or another game with this type of engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrog-III
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Icewind Dale II starts in the small town of Targos. You have been sent there because you volunteered 
 to be a recruit after hearing lots of things about famous adventurers whos heroic deeds have earned 
 their place in the tales of old.
  
  As with it's predecessor it is set in the wintry lands of the Icewind Dale and is generally focused 
 on the doings of your adventurers.
  
  Like the Baldur's Gate games and the original Icewind Dale the game involves strategic thinking 
 (what spells to cast, who to attack etc.) and you might want to save it regularly because Icewind 
 Dale II is a bit harder.
  
  Multi-player is the same as Icewind Dale and Baldur's Gate, just have a disk for each PC you're 
 going to be playing it on and connect the PCs.
  
  This game deserves the 10/10 i'm giving it and is one of the best RPGs ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillmundo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the original Icewind Dale, I wasn't impressed. Sure there was an ok story and 
 so-so graphics, but nothing spectacular. But over time, more and more the game began to appeal 
 to me. The plot unfolded into a immense web of alternate endings and devastating consequences. 
 I fell in love with the game, the depth of the character creation, the sound, the level ups... 
 the whole nine yards. Then when I played Icewind Dale II, I was hoping for it to be everything 
 the first one was and more. And it sure was! The game evolved for the better in every way from 
 the original Icewind Dale; from the enemy dynamics to the plot, to the music! Icewind Dale II is 
 worth playing! Try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Icewind Dale II uses a modified Baldur's Gate engine and is the last of the Baldur's Gate type 
 RPGs from Black Isle.
  
  The Icewind Dale series is in itself very different from that of the Baldur's Gate series, but 
 the gameplay is very similar. The plot is less developed in Icewind Dale II, as it aims to please 
 it's players with a lot of fighting and challenging battles, rather than a plot driven by sub-quests 
 and intriguing NPCs.
  
  It is for this reason that this game series will never compare to the Baldur's Gate series.
  
 
  That said, the game is very involving for gamers and has many rich dungeons and regions to explore 
 as you level up your party members and try to figure out why Icewind Dale is falling victim to 
 a series of goblin invasions.
  
  The items to be found in this game range from the dull and abundant to the magical and rare. The 
 look of the items such as scrolls, armour, weapons and ammunition have much more detail than the 
 Baldur's Gate items; the interface is far more pleasing to the eye.
  
  It is obvious that a lot of work was put into improving the engine and making the Icewind Dale 
 world bigger and better, this time around. Unfortunately the plot suffered as a result, though 
 it is still enjoyable. Great game! Just not where it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Coming out on September 4th of 2002, Icewind Dale II was Black Isle Studios last venture with the 
 famed Infinity Engine. Even though the development was rushed in the process to finish the game, 
 having some of their development time take from them, they still produced a great follow-up to 
 the combat-driven intensity of the previous installment. Including known environments from the 
 first and many new areas, the player is lead through a great storyline on the aged and primed Infinity 
 Engine to a rich and engrossing soundtrack that truly illustrates the Spine of the World.
  
  The storyline takes place in The Spine of the World where the original began, but Icewind Dale 
 II actually takes place approximately thirty years after the events of the first game. Youll be 
 visiting known locales such as Kuldahar, Dragons Eye, and the awesome Severed Hand and even though 
 they may be the same places you saw in the first game, thirty years has passed and some of those 
 environments have changed significantly in that amount of time. Like the rest of the games released 
 on the Infinity Engine, Icewind Dale II features great 2D graphics with extremely detailed backgrounds 
 that are memorable throughout the game. Much like the previous installments in the series, you 
 are again lead upon a linear path during the progression of the storyline telling the tale of mercenaries 
 who were called to the village of Targos to help out against the goblin invasion and from there, 
 you start your journey to progress through the lengthy single player campaign with your band of 
 characters ranging from one to six companions. Throughout your travels, youll heard small whispers 
 and tales of a band of travels who rid the Spine of the World of evil decades ago and this little 
 bit adds quite a lot to your time with the game. 
  
  The gameplay is straightforward in the sense that much like the first game, Icewind Dale II is 
 all about combat. From the very beginning of the game to the last end boss battle, youll be subjected 
 to fight after fight and battle after battle against goblins, trolls, yaun-ti and other terrible 
 creatures around the Spine of the World, a Forgotten Realms locale made famous by respected author 
 R. A. Salvatore. Black Isle Studios chose to use the 3.0 rule set of Dungeons and Dragons instead 
 of the older 2nd Edition rule set and this is quite a change from the last installment which adds 
 new and appreciated changes to each of the character classes. Now, youll be spending quite a bit 
 more time mapping out your characters progression as they strive to become warriors, mages, and 
 thieves , not to mention clerics, paladins, sorcerers and othr great 3rd edition classes in the 
 World of Toril. Icewind Dale II also has the added feature called Heart of Fury Mode, first brought 
 to us by the first expansion to the previous game, where players can beat the game and use the 
 same characters to progress through the campaign again, but playing against harder monsters. The 
 main reason for the game mode is to build hug powerful characters to wreak havoc across the icy 
 mountains.
  
  Because of the age of the Infinity Engine, Icewind Dale II doesnt have the best graphics and for 
 a game being released in 2002, it wont astound anyone, but if youve been a fan of the Baldurs 
 Gate series and the previous Icewind Dale games, then youll appreciate Icewind Dale II for what 
 it is, a great hack and slash game with a decent storyline where you build powerful characters 
 to ravage the landscape of the cold tundra. Even with the Infinity Engine being quite old, Black 
 Isle Studios still made the game look decent enough. Theres quite a bit you can do with pre-rendered 
 backgrounds, and with all the great artists on the development team, Icewind Dale II shines in 
 this respect. Even though it may seem a little cheap that your character will be traveling through 
 places youve seen before in the previous game, the development team took time to change the environments 
 slightly in some places and more in others to give the player a little bit of nostalgia, but also 
 a wanting to progress to see whats changed in the past decades of travel.
  
  The sound effects within the games interior are recycled down from the previous installments, 
 but the actual soundtrack is both engrossing and amazing. And this is a strong statement considering 
 that Jeremy Soule did the soundtrack for the original game. Inon Zur took the reigns this time 
 and made a rich soundtrack that youll enjoy all the way through the campaign and this truly adds 
 a lot to the game itself. Even though the game is combat driven, the writing is superb in the respect 
 that both the storyline is intriguing, but also the dialogue by the different characters within 
 the game is well done also. 
  
  There is multiplayer mode in the game, like the original, where you and friends can create your 
 own characters and progress through the main storyline together. It doesnt really seem like much, 
 but having a few different minds at work with different characters can be a game in itself. 
  
  Overall, Icewind Dale II, for the amount of development time that went into it, is a superb 
 game in many respects. Although some environments may be recycled from the previous installment, 
 the development team took their time in recreating them in the sense of making them different enough 
 for the player to want to progress and travel through them again the second time around. With a 
 great storyline interwoven between enriching dialogue, Icewind Dale II is more than just a hack 
 and slash dungeon crawler. With decent enough graphics for its aged engine, and the wonderful atmospheric 
 music by Inon Zur, fans of Black Isle Studios, the Infinity Engine, or role-playing games in general 
 should definitely give this game a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  Another one of the brilliant games in the world of AD&D. IWD2 lives up to the series alright. Good 
 storyline, loads of action, pretty spells, and twice the trouble in the form of the last bosses. 
 
  
  Though it differs alot from IWD1, in terms of the multiclassing rules, it makes for even better 
 combos and character creation. New spells also dominate. Especially the level 9 ones. One thing 
 about IWD2 is the difficulty level, don't expect to whiz through the game in 3 days. The enemies 
 are back with more surprises then ever. In the form of potions! Yes, they heal and prolong a fight.
 
  Certain parts of the game like the Ice Palace and Fellwood took a load of my time.
  
  For those who have played IWD1, it will be reminiscent, going back to Kuldahar and stuff. References 
 are also made to IWD1, those who have played it will be reminded. Graphics haven't really been 
 improved alot, but it doesn't really matter when gameplay and story are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatherceana
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The over-all greyness of the characters, set against snow and amongst dark structures, makes this 
 game hard on the eyes. The plot is as linear as the original IceWind Dale, but the story itself 
 seems to lack the depth and direction of the original. 
  
  Both of the IceWind Dales lack the quality of their "brother" games - the Baldur's Gate games. 
 You have to make an entire party to venture forth. This means that there is next to no NPC interaction 
 and even the dialogue gave fewer options for real role-play. The NPCs were not all that interesting 
 for me either, with a few notable exceptions.
  
  I felt more like a party of puppets in someone else's play rather then like a party of stalwart 
 adventurers seeking their fortune and, advertently or inadvertently, caught-up in events soon to 
 be of historical import. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  The first thing I have to say is that this review is based on comparison with previous Icewind 
 Dale. That's not an easy thing mainly because the different rule system (AD&D vs. 3rd ed. D&D) . 
 So I'll try to focus on more comparable game elements.
  
  This game seemed better from the very start to the end. Ever since I arrived to the town of Targos, 
 the game "felt" better. Meaning: the story was more consistent, battles were well designed etc.
 
  
  The story is quite simple and linear, but in my oppinion it was quite interesting. I really felt 
 like on an epic quest (well - in every RPQ you fell like on epic quest - but this is to compare 
 the story to that of IWD1) .
  
  On the other hand - the controls were a bit weird. I don't know what was wrong with the original 
 BG controls. This single bottom bar is a little inconvenient. Some buttons are too small and close 
 together... I also didn't like the dialog box very much. It's quite big and it can't be resized 
 if needed.
  
  But these are only minor issues which don't spoil overall experience, once you get used to them.
 
  
  I think IWD2 is a worthy title that concludes the era of famous Infinity engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  I really liked both games, which I think were really immersive and involving. I liked the first 
 game better because it was more straight forward game. All things make sense and come together, 
 and are logically connected. So the player does not have to baffle and at times back track here 
 /& there, because he simply does not know what exactly to do. This has happened to me in the latter 
 game. Too much reading was involved there. Especially due to the fact that you are also an alchemist 
 here so you have to prepare potions to be able to proceed. The "Fell Wood" maze was simply a most 
 frustrating location, such that can make me not ever wanting to play this game again. I gave up 
 and had to read the walkthrough to get passed it, common, let me have fun and play don't want to 
 "break" my head with these pointless "puzzles". I played IWD1 3 times already from start to end 
 with totally different parties, with Heart of Winter and Trials of the Luremaster. True pleasure 
 indeed! Each time I see new things and do new techniques just for the heck of it...
  
  Finishing the second was more than a relief, like "phewww, thanks goodness it's over". Although 
 the second has better graphics starting from even the spell icons to just about every other animation 
 and texture. In my opinion the gameplay is a more important factor than the visuals.
  
  All in all, this game is a wonderful achievment for a CRPG. I really wish there would be more like 
 this game. Cannot believe there will ever be however since the company has shut it's doors.
  So, if you like isometric RPG's and you can manage the use of the Infinity engine, which in my 
 opinion is a great technological achievment and a must for these types of games, then you must 
 play this. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2004 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Icewind Dale 2 was one of those games that kind of slipped under the radar screen a couple of years 
 ago. This is too bad, because this is a really fun hack-and-slash game. As a bonus, it has some 
 nice role-playing elements sprinkled in, and some really nice artwork. The throwaway story is the 
 games only major fault.
  When this game came out, the engine that powered it was four years old. But like fine wine, the 
 Bioware Infinity Engine improved with time. The core system (graphics, animation, sounds, etc) 
 is old, but this game more than makes up for it. Icewind Dale 2 is a great sequel and it delivers 
 on everything that it promised. All of the wisdom of the previous Infinity Engine D&D games has 
 been poured into this game. In addition, there are a handful of improvements. Most notably, the 
 interface is very efficient and user-friendly. If you can get over the outdated graphics, then 
 this game is more than worth picking up. 
  
  IWD2 uses the same real-time strategy setup as the other Infinity Engine D&D games. You have a 
 party of up to 6 characters (unlike Neverwinter Nights) , and you control them by giving them orders. 
 Everything that you liked about the old games is still there. Great voice acting, the battle sounds 
 (which now include taunts for a critical hit) , great original music, an occasional dose of humor, 
 cool spell effects, and lots of strategy. The Icewind Dale series is more combat-driven than Baldurs 
 Gate and Planescape: Torment, and there is no "main character". 
  
  But this game is NOT just a repeat if Icewind Dale 1. This game is better. For starters, there 
 is much more dialog and role-playing. The dialog trees are big and have lots of variety. NPC's 
 react differently to you, depending upon who is talking to them. You can talk to one NPC with 3 
 different characters, and get 3 unique responses. An NPC might offer a quest only to a character 
 who is of a certain class or race. Diplomacy and Bluff play a significant part in the game. 
  
  The missions are more creative and interesting. The game has added a slightly new twist -- 
 destructible objects, like barrels and doors, which makes for a few interesting problems to solve. 
 There is one frantic scene where you have to battle across the screen quickly and stop some bad 
 guys from demolishing a bridge (if you take too long, you fail) . Some of your missions include 
 destroying objects (a wall or a door, for instance) . 
  
  In addition, IWD2 uses the 3rd Edition rules, and it is the best adaptation yet. Black Isle did 
 a great job of incorporating the new rules and a few new races into the game, like the Aasimar 
 and the Dark Elf. The game offers you more character variety than any D&D game to date, so it gives 
 you the potential to replay the game (which is pretty long) at least once. 
  
  I found this game to be somewhat harder than the other Infinity Engine games, but without getting 
 too frustrating. If you are new to this genre, then I advise picking up Icewind Dale 1 or Baldurs 
 Gate 2 first to get the feel of these games, because Icewind Dale 2 is hard. Its hard in a rewarding 
 way. The battles require more brainpower to get through, so the fun factor is very high. 
  
  The AI has been upgraded - enemies come at you differently than they used too. Enemy spell 
 casters are smarter and more dangerous. The goblins, orcs, and other minions come in big bunches, 
 which gives you the feeling that you are truly taking on an army of the enemy. You cannot kill 
 30 enemies by luring them at you one at a time. They generally swarm you all at once. This is a 
 subtle but significant difference that gives Icewind Dale 2 a feel that no other game has had.
 
  
  There isn't much to complain about in this game, except for the unfixable shortcomings of the old 
 engine. The graphics and animation are getting very outdated, and some of the other little flaws 
 like pathfinding are still there. Although one thing that should be pointed out is that some of 
 the games artwork still looks wonderful. The story is the games biggest weakness. The story is 
 very weak, and you pretty much find everything out about it 2/3 of the way though the game. Then, 
 the ending is a letdown. However, you can look past those flaws to see a great game. This is the 
 best D&D 3rd Edition game out there. I think of it like Temple of Elemental Evil without the bugs. 
 Black Isle squeezed that old Infinity engine like an orange and got every last drop of fun that 
 they could out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first Icewind Dale, but this one disappoints. The first game was a great 2D 
 hack and slash game with a brief but colorful plot. The locations and maps were often interesting 
 places to stage battles in. 
  
  The sequel is longer, but there is a ridiculous amount of "filler" in the game. And a lot of pointless 
 back-tracking to locations already visited. The game feels rushed. The story, especially when you 
 get to the frozen castle, is just non-sensical. 
  
  But the worst thing is the maps themselves: you are essentially fighting along serpintine narrow 
 paths with occasional small open spaces that lead you from one of the screen to the other end. 
 That's about it for the whole game. I'd rather play the first Icewind Dale again. 
  
  The tactical battles were much more intersting in the first Icewind Dale (with the add-on and patches) . 
 
  
  For those who like tactical games, try the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2004 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very solid successor to the original game (which I enjoyed a great deal) . It terms 
 of the style of the game as well as the engine and the interface, the game feels pretty much exactly 
 like the first game. The only difference is in the 3rd edition rules. It's probably a matter of 
 taste, but I'm not a particularly big fan of the 3rd edition rules but I've been warming up to 
 them. In IWD2, there are a few points that I personally did not like. One was that the amount of 
 experience gained in an encounter is proportional to the difference in the levels between your 
 party and the enemy you are fighting. This means that as you get stronger, the amount of experience 
 you get from a particular fight goes down. This means that the amount of experience you gain from 
 fights in general as the game progresses doesn't vary by a great deal and by the end of the game, 
 you still get less than 1000 points for a typical battle. I personally find that less satisfying 
 than getting 100,000 for the bad guys near the end of the game. I also really didn't like the fact 
 that if you fight enemies that are significantly weaker than you (regardless of how many of them 
 there are) , there's a cutoff below which you get 0 points. Not at all satisfying.
  
  The visuals are pretty good and basically the same as the original game. The soundtrack is great. 
 I bought the collector's edition which comes with a CD soundtrack that I actually enjoy listening 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2003 6:35 am PT
Review:  Everything the original game was and much more. 
  
  Icewind Dale 2 is overall much longer and has many more options, but it still retains the tactical 
 combat focus of the original game, without too much in the way of talking or complex puzzles to 
 wade through. (There were a few surprises though.) 
  
  As a fan of the infinity engine games, (Baldur's Gate 1/2, Icewind Dale, Torment) I found the singleplayer 
 experience of Neverwinter Nights rather dismal. You only got to control one character, there was 
 no strategy involved in combat, etc. IWD2 has the party based feel of those previous games, and 
 indeed you have so many more options in customising your party with the 3rd edition rules and the 
 subraces. The game involves lots of strategic thinking, and at points in the game you may have 
 to do some creative thinking to get through the battles. 
  
  Icewind Dale 2 is in my reckoning close to the game time of Baldur's Gate 2, so if you want a solid 
 game that'll keep you entertained for a while this is it. It's also a little more challenging than 
 the original, but you can wuss out and put the difficulty down if you find parts too hard.
  
  The infinity engine is definitely showing its age... but, the interface has been vastly improved 
 and has a few cool new features. The graphics are nothing special - the 2d landscapes are beautiful 
 and outdo previous infinity engine games, but the sprites are still simplist and pixelated. The 
 music is quite good, though perhaps Inon Zur's work on the soundtrack doesn't measure up to Jeremy 
 Soule's in the original game.
  
  All in all, kudos to Black Isle on a job well done.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cirventhor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2003 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good.
  
  That is, it has all the required components for what I consider a good RPG. A nice story, good 
 voice-overs, superb music and a really great battle system - the best one to use the much loved 
 Infinity Engine.
  
  The game shines on several areas, the areas are designed very well, even though I do miss the 3D 
 effects (notably the soft shadow or 'shroud') seen in Baldur's Gate II and the the original Icewind 
 Dale. Animations are great.
  
  Character generation remains one of the strongpoints of the game, as it has been with the other 
 games in the BG/IWD series. It must be mentioned that the inclution of the 3rd Edition D&D rules 
 is very well done, and also the handful of prestigue classes are a nice touch.
  
  If I were to say anything bad on this game, it must be that it is relatively short, as well as 
 having some awkward puzzles. The dungeons can get a bit tedious at times, but overall they are 
 very interesting and well put togther with a good variety. But the positive aspects far outshine 
 this.
  
  Anyone up for a good, simple RPG; pick this one up. It is not revolutionary in any way, but it 
 sure is a good RPG that incorporates many of the best features of computer role-playing games. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
