-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: IGI 2: Covert Strike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/igi2covertstrike/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 14, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.9, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 563 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Innerloop
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 3, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Perhaps IGI 2's biggest problem is that instead of drawing you into a thrilling adventure, it makes 
 you feel like you're just going through the motions in a generic shooter. 

 Sometimes a mediocre game can seem worse than an outright dud. When you're playing an obviously 
 terrible game, you can usually put it safely aside and move on to something better. But mediocre 
 games like Innerloop Studios' IGI 2: Covert Strike trick you into thinking that there might be 
 something great just around the corner, only to repeatedly disappoint you. The previous game, Project 
 IGI, was an above-average shooter when it was released in 2000, despite some serious shortcomings. 
 But things have changed since then -- more-sophisticated and more-stylish action games such as Medal 
 of Honor: Allied Assault, No One Lives Forever 2, and Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell have raised the 
 bar for action games. Yet Innerloop has slid under it with IGI 2, which is a shooter that might 
 have seemed exciting if it had been released in 2000, but is mostly forgettable now.           
 Who is this guy, anyway? Storytelling definitely isn't one of IGI 2's strengths.    

  In IGI 2, you play as ex-SAS soldier David Jones, a covert operative now working for the fictional 
 Institute for Geotactical Intelligence. You'd never know that at first if you didn't read the box 
 and manual before playing, though. The game itself just throws you into the action without any 
 decent setup or explanations. What exactly is IGI? Who is David Jones? Who knows? Who cares? The 
 attempts at storytelling fall flat throughout the game. This might not have been the problem if 
 IGI 2 were a straightforward action game, but, as your first mission briefing tells you when you 
 start the game, "stealth will be vital." To be fair, IGI 2 at least gives you a visibility meter 
 that gives you a good idea of how easily you can be seen without resorting to guesswork. You can 
 toggle Jones' movement between running and walking, and you can also select from standing, crouching, 
 and prone positions, all of which have an effect on how noticeable you are.   

  IGI 2 does have seem to have some basic mechanics to encourage interesting stealth-based gameplay, 
 but in practice, the stealth elements are often tedious, frustrating, or implemented too obviously. 
 All too often, you'll get the feeling that IGI 2's designers were following some sort some kind 
 of action-game design handbook. You'll find levels where you'll obviously be required to sneak 
 up behind a guard and incapacitate him, or levels in which you're clearly supposed to crouch behind 
 a pile of crates to avoid being spotted by a security camera. In fact, IGI 2 may make you feel 
 like you're jumping through hoops instead of pulling off dramatically daring feats, so you may 
 be tempted to forget stealth and just start shooting things up.           Often, you can dispense 
 with stealth and just start shooting things up.    

  It's then that you'll learn that that IGI 2's disposable henchmen aren't exactly tactical geniuses. 
 Sure, if you blow your cover and go in with guns blazing, they'll sound alarms and come pouring 
 out of their barracks to hunt you down, and sometimes they'll even surprise you by using a flash-bang 
 grenade to blind you before they attack. Many of them have incredibly good aim, but they're not 
 especially vigilant otherwise, and when they first suspect your presence, they'll usually just 
 run back and forth in predetermined areas for a while, as if a good jog might ward off any possible 
 intruders. Apparently, the guards all skipped class while attending henchman school, since they'll 
 gladly run one after another into your line of fire until the bodies are stacked to the ceiling. 
 They'll also use such clever tactics such as yelling "Grenade!" to warn you before they throw one. 
 In fact, they'll even start tossing grenades around wildly indoors -- while you're still outside. 
   

  If you stand too long in view of a security camera, an alarm will likewise sound. Of course, you'll 
 discover quickly that you can simply shoot out most cameras, and no one will be the wiser. Leaving 
 bodies lying around (you can't drag them out of the way as in most games of this type) usually 
 won't alert anyone either. About the only time you absolutely have to be stealthy in IGI 2 is in 
 certain levels where massive hordes of guards can gang up on you from all directions.     

 
 If you do find yourself under attack, the firefights can be action-packed and exciting but are 
 just as likely to be frustrating. The enemies usually act foolishly, but, as mentioned above, they 
 have superb aim to compensate. Imagine the infamously difficult Sniper Town level from 2015's excellent 
 shooter Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, but everywhere, all the time. As such, you'll need to sneak 
 from cover to cover as you pick off enemies and use grenades to take out large groups before they 
 can fire on you en masse. Unfortunately, the AI troops' unerring ability to hit you with a submachine 
 gun from hundreds of yards away may make you feel like the game is cheating.           Your enemies 
 aren't too cautious -- or too bright, for that matter.    

  As in the original Project IGI, you'll fight these eagle-eyed thugs on huge maps that feature enormous 
 factories or sprawling military bases set among towering mountains. Unlike in the previous game, 
 you can actually save your progress a few times per mission as you navigate these maps. But other 
 than their sheer size, the poorly balanced and unevenly paced levels offer fairly little of interest. 
 While you can sometimes infiltrate an area from multiple directions, the levels are usually very 
 linear. Sometimes you'll get a little variety in the form of a timed mission or the obligatory 
 "escort the AI companion who keeps getting shot" mission, but that's scant consolation. On top 
 of that, there's a major bug on one level that causes the game to crash to the desktop at random 
 moments, along with a host of other bugs throughout the game. Interface elements disappear, bodies 
 float high in the sky, vehicles bounce 10 feet in the air for no reason, and more.   

  While the levels are visually impressive in terms of their sheer size, they're not very impressive 
 otherwise. IGI 2's graphics engine is certainly capable of rendering some attractive scenes from 
 time to time, but there's just too little artistry behind the game to take advantage of it. Few 
 of the levels make you feel like you're in a real-world location, despite IGI 2's real-world setting. 
 Most buildings, for instance, are largely empty or look almost exactly alike inside and out. The 
 game looks rather dated overall, thanks to its simple lighting and shadow effects, blocky 3D models, 
 and generally unconvincing animations. It just lacks any sort of memorable visual style, and you'll 
 forget what each level looked like as soon as you finish it.   

  Like the visuals, IGI 2's audio is merely adequate. On the one hand, you'll hear wind whistling 
 through the pines high on a snowy mountain and hear Jones' feet realistically crunching gravel 
 as he runs. The guns sound powerful for the most part, too. On the other hand, the music is forgettable, 
 and most of the voice-overs are quite bad. The voices for Jones and his cohorts back at IGI headquarters 
 are competent, but the voices for the "Russian" henchmen in the early missions, for example, are 
 horrible. All the guards keep shouting the same phrases over and over for no reason -- you'll want 
 to kill them just to shut them up.           The levels are huge, but often boring.    

  When you get tired of the single-player game -- which will likely happen in a hurry -- you can head 
 online. IGI 2's multiplayer offers a decent variant on the popular team-based shooter Counter-Strike, 
 albeit with unusually large maps. In fact, the maps feel too large for a game that supports only 
 16 players. The menu system is also rather clumsy.   

  IGI 2: Covert Strike has its entertaining moments, but not enough of them to help the game rise 
 above mediocrity. Sometimes the game provides some exciting combat, but more often it tends to 
 be boring, clichd, or clumsy. It fails miserably at providing any sort of interesting story 
 or characters that you care about. The levels are huge, but they're often bland or repetitive, 
 and the game is riddled with design problems and bugs. Perhaps IGI 2's biggest problem is that 
 instead of drawing you into a thrilling adventure, it makes you feel like you're just going through 
 the motions in a generic shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DoctorBedlam
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  After reviewing the first IGI release I felt it was proper for me to review the second coming.
 
  
  My points are the same as in the review for the first entry in the series, but with elevated standings.
 
  
  :)
  
  PROJECT I. G. I. 2: COVERT STRIKE - PC - 
  
  Big fan of shooters? Dig PC gaming?
  
  Pick this release up with haste.
  
  Feeling sneaky? 
 Utilize stealth to infiltrate and destroy your enemy from within. But beware as the AI is much 
 more cunning and ruthless than most you've encountered.
  
  Feeling itchy on the trigger? Blast your way through the enemy ranks and dominate their territory-as 
 long as you're comfortable with bullets strafing your every move.
  
  In numerous engagements with the enemy the player might find themselves blanketed by gunfire-just 
 when you thought it was safe, but you forgot to check that corner didn't you?
  
  Personally, this game shines in many regions.
  
  Level design, AI, mission objectives, gunplay, 
 character movement, music, sound effects, etc. just beam creativity. Considering the date of this 
 games release (2003) it stands as a stepping stone, a bridge to the new generation of gaming that 
 we are now a part of.
  
  Fans of METAL GEAR, SOCOM and GHOST RECON will definately feel the warmth in their gamer heart 
 that this game is capable of generating.
  
  Lock and load!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  IGI 2 features an expanded AI system over it's predeccessor, hailing their life like alerness, 
 when all it comes down to is a cheap gimic that simply works against the game. The only true addition 
 to the AI system is an expanded field of view, which attepmts to force the player into a stealthy 
 style of gameplay, but in the end, simply frustrates all but the most astute gamer. The game features 
 a modicum of generic weaponry, seen in 150,112 or so games beforehand, and all perform in about 
 the same way. The guns in IGI 2 bare almost no resemblance to the accuracy and firepower of their 
 real-life counterparts, and most feel near identical. The graphics haven't aged well, although they're 
 still passable, and represent one of the few high points of the game. The sound, however, is a 
 very different story. Very few sound effects can be heard in IGI 2, and its repetiore consists 
 mostly of alarm bells, and weak, underwhelming gunshot noises. All in all, IGI 2 is a dissapointment 
 in every way. From the Gameplay, to the presentation, everything about the game screams Generic! 
 . If you're in need of an fps fix, or due to some mental defect, you just love frustration, then 
 by all means, give it a try. If you belong to the former, rather than the latter, then be prepared 
 for dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Ive heard IGI 2 pitched as the thinking mans first-person shooter. Well, the only thing I wondered 
 as I played through this game was, What exactly is the man thinking about? The potential was 
 here for a deep, involving FPS, but after slogging through it, I must say it never lives up to 
 its potential.
  
  The action gets off to a promising start. The premise is typical: Youre back as former SAS operative 
 David Jones, single-handedly tackling 19 missions that have you infiltrating bases and taking out 
 bad guys in Libya, China, and Russia. You tag SAMs with laser designators, steal documents from 
 arms dealers, disable lots of security systems, and get captured a surprising number of times for 
 someone whos supposed to be the best of the best.
  
  IGI 2 uses an improved version of Project IGIs engine. The graphics are spectacular, and feature 
 gorgeously rendered mountain ranges, forests, and deserts. It mostly ran fine on my Athlon XP 2200 
 with a GeForce4 card.
  
  But looks are pretty much the only appeal. The main culprit in sabotaging the attractive premise 
 is the horrible AI. I managed to go through almost every level by killing every enemy. Id shoot 
 one guy, at which point his buddy would walk by to see what happened. Id cap the buddy, and then 
 another guy would come over. Eventually the alarm would sound and tons of bad guys would swarm 
 into the area, but theyd all just mill around where the first dead body was, making them easy 
 pickings. This bizarreness happened on all three difficulty levels, too.
  
  That doesnt mean I never died, though. For some reason, these baddies can fling a grenade farther 
 than your grenade launcher can fire them, and do so with pinpoint accuracy. Sometimes Id be sniping 
 sentries 100 meters away and one of them would toss a grenade that would land right on my head. 
 Yet, at the same time, your foes will fire hundreds of rounds with about the same accuracy as your 
 typical Stormtrooper.
  
  Of course, thats because I played almost the entire game in the prone position, which for me was 
 as effective as being in god mode. When youre prone here, no one sees you until youre 10 feet 
 away, no one hears you, and only one out of 100 bullets hits you  and even then, it wont do much 
 damage. But stand up, and suddenly youre a bullet magnet, peppered and reloading after just a 
 few hits. If these conditions dont make sense to you, youre not alone. Basically, as long as 
 you crawl, you can beat almost every level.
  
  To make matters even worse, you have limited saves in both easy and medium modes, and no saves 
 in the hard mode. The sound effects are bland and the music is completely forgettable. IGI 2s 
 multiplay isnt as bad  it plays similarly to Counter-Strike in that you accumulate cash to buy 
 better weapons and gear  but its not enough to warrant buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadwalker_135
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  o o o oo o o o o o o o o o oooo oooooooooooooooooooooooo ooooooo ooo o oooo oooo oooooo oooo ooooo 
 ooooooooo oooooooooooooo o oooo oo ooooooooo ooooooo ooooooooo oo ooo ooo ooooo o oo oooo o oooooooooo 
 ooooo oooo oo oo ooo ooo oo o o o oo o oo oooo ooooooo ooo oooo ooooooooooo oo oooooo ooo ooooo 
 oooo oo ooo oo oo oooooooooo oooooooooooo oooooo oooo o oooooooooooo o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  IGI 2 I can best describe as a redemption gone bad. Some things were better than the prequel like 
 the weapons, graphics, the lighting, the water and FINALLY THE DEVELOPERS REALISED TO ENABLE INGAME 
 SAVING BUT (T) again the number of saves per level has been limited. I don't know why the developers 
 don't want anybody to save their game much. The graphics are kind of better than the prequels, 
 the no. of weapons Jones can carry has been reduced. Talking about Jones (The main character) his 
 look has been completely transformed for the worse. He squints all the time and looks completely 
 different from the Jones of the prequel, not only that he even sounds totally different. Jones 
 of the prequel was much better. Same would apply to Anya. The voice over acting is really bad. 
 The health syringe thankfully replenishes your health a lot faster but sadly I couldn't find more 
 than one. The title of the game is IGI 2: covert strike, but after having completed all the 20 some 
 levels I would rather call it IGI 2: strike considering the fact that u don't at all need any amount 
 of covertness. It's much easier to complete the game without stealth especially on the levels with 
 time limitations, in such situations u don't get much time to plan your strategy. You can use silencers, 
 AK-47, rocket launchers, snipers, Uzi, shotguns, G-11 or pretty much about any thing you like. 
 You can change your stance to improve your aim. My favorite weapon has to be the socom-it has a 
 nice little laser pointer that helps you better to pick off your enemies with a single head shot. 
 The binocs dont have the two grid lines like in IGI 1 which helped convert the AK-47 into a sniper. 
 But u still can use it for long range combat provided u are running the game on a high enough resolution 
 and go prone. At least over here blowing up the security cameras doesn't automatically trigger 
 the alarm and there are finite numbers of enemies even in the guard quarters. Weapons are much 
 better than the first part with some new inclusions among the old like the G-36, G-11, the Socom, 
 a new sniper etc. but the pulsating crosshairs makes it difficult to shoot while moving and this 
 easily makes life difficult especially on levels where one has a finite time to complete the level-the 
 last 2 especially. So one cant exactly apply the run and gun technique of MOHAA, you need to be 
 still while u shoot. IGI 2 still gives u a better chance of using stealth thanks to the inclusion 
 of 2 silencer pistols-a major requirement for games incorporating stealth just like in the hit 
 man series. They shouldnt have brought back Priboi (ye ol fat villain in IGI 1) . But the only different 
 kind of mission that IGI2 has is the one where u have to man a machinegun in a moving helicopter 
 while ye ol fat villain pilots it. The rocket launcher is far better in looks as compared to the 
 Law-80. Maneuverability of Jones is not good at all especially the side strafing is very bad. It 
 is realistic but still doesnt help. The feature of thermal imaging is helpful at times but still 
 unrealistic because apparently even the enemies' clothes radiate heat. The lighting was full of 
 glitches at places. In some areas I found the enemies to be glowing brightly yet there was no source 
 of light nearby. Headshots are the best way of working around the level. The jackhammer is not 
 as good as that in IGI 1. The water quality is pretty good yet it could have been a little less 
 viscous. Though there are 20 some levels yet it is fairly easier than the prequel, to which the 
 feature of saving has a rather small contribution. The developers might have thought that including 
 some Chinese missions (wonder why everybody puts in Chinese villains in so many games?) would make 
 the game better but it hardly affects it. The last 2 levels were relatively difficult thanks to 
 the time barrier. IGI2 is much more graphically detailed than the prequel. Playing through is not 
 all that bad considering the fact that every mission is different from the other. But that is just 
 limited in terms of what you have to do. How you do it is pretty much same (for me) -draw the enemies 
 attention, wait for them to come near you and pick them off like insects, although it doesnt work 
 always. I cannot comment on the multiplayer as I couldnt find anybody to play with. Once again 
 this is good for playing just once, it has a very low replayability factor. Sound is one thing 
 I like about this game but at the end of it all it could have been wayyyyyyyyy better. You'll come 
 across situations where there'd be 15 some enemies but still it would be a cinch, kind of like 
 MOHAA. Reloading actions are very weird for some situations, especially the socom where the clip 
 appears to be inserted by a dislocated arm not belonging to Jones. The going prone feature though 
 useful doesn't look all that good. At the end of it IGI2 wasn't all that bad to play and certainly 
 more enjoyable as compared to the prequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagm_999
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  The game now has a couple years behind it. By myself i started playing it in 2005. I never liked 
 the single player part, the enemy AI was stupid, the maps were pretty boring and predictable and 
 the story wasnt the best either. After a while i got tired of it so i thought i could try this 
 new thing called multiplayer , IGI 2 was one of my very first multiplayer games, i tried it, and 
 loved it (even though my score were absolutely terrible) . After a couple of months playing i realized 
 that the game wasnt like any other big fps multiplayer-game with thousands of players. In IGI 2 
 you constantly met people you know and build a community together with. It wasnt like Counter Strike 
 or Battlefield 1942 with a hell lot of anonymous players which you never meet again after the game.
 
  
  Ok, 2005 went well and the game became funnier and funnier. The numbers of players playing stayed 
 steady at ~25-30.
  
  2006 was the year when IGI 2 begun to die. The new thing was Server Crashing where some of the 
 ignorant kids started to crash gameservers when they got kicked or just were in a bad mood. Many 
 of the old people playing IGI 2 left, and went playing these Mainstream games like Cs: S, Bf2 or 
 CoD2, leaving the old favourite left alone. The game didnt and doesnt have any support from Codemasters/PAN 
 Vision anymore, and the rumors about a new IGI 3 coming out were crushed when it was announced 
 at a website. The old players left and left, but the average player amount still stayed around 
 25
  
  2007: Now the game is mostly unplayable because of the servers are populated by ignorant idiots; 
 the teams get unfair but no one change, many teamkillers but no one kicks because they are too 
 stupid and the players are many quiet anonymous people. The reasons why i started playing IGI 2, 
 the community, is now dying. But we still have som really nice games from time to time, and i really 
 recommend it.
  
  It should nowadays be quite cheap and its definitely worth buying. Even if the graphics and texturing 
 are old fashioned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HandheldJunkie
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  In a few short and snappy sentences i'll sum this game up, it's fun, it has guns and blood and 
 a great multiplayer mode. Now most people would go onto say about how the graphics aren't up to 
 scratch and how bad the plot is ect. But i played this game back when i was 8 years old and thought 
 it was great!! For a first timer at FPS'ing it was awesome. Who cares about the plot and whether 
 or not you feel immersed in the game. When it comes down to it, it's just a really fun game to 
 play and i can't think of a better way to spend my time 5 years ago.
  Just buy it for the pennies it costs nowadays and bask in the fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  One word comes to mind as I "play" this game - turd. There is very little of value to be found 
 in this game, especially considering the myriad of quality shooters out there now. I gave it so 
 many chances.... really wanted to like it... even just a little bit. But as annoyances piled up on 
 annoyances, I hit my breaking point and have decided to not waste another minute of my life playing 
 this wretched game. I have uninstalled and deleted all IGI2 files and have boiled my rig for good 
 measure to ensure that all remants on this game are gone. Codemasters.... what have you done? Operation 
 Flashpoint was such a good game... why did this garbage have to be made? Save yourself the heartache 
 and the disappointment... avoid this game at all costs. I wouldn't even play it if someone gave 
 it to me for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  This is a stealth game which follows the footsteps of the original. We see improved graphics and 
 gameplay. You even get to save but only a limited amount of times per level. In this game you will 
 highly outnumbered without a friend. So if you like having to sneak by and kill hundreds of terrorists 
 this is for you. In many levels there will be things stopping you from simply walking in whether 
 it be mines, snipers or a ridiculous amount of troops that arrive after an alarm is raised. Quite 
 a good but hard game that now days seems a bit lame and old, but its the best your computer can 
 hack i suggest it strongly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  This is worth IGI series i have ever played in my life! The graphics reminds me beginning of 2001 
 year, sound need to be fixed as well. 
  
  Thing that turn off me the most is the AI, they are dumb. Example, u can stand near him in radius 
 15 minters and he cant see u, but i closer u move he start fire his weapon and kill u instantly.
 
  
  Also, creators of the game forgot one simple thing in the game what is called :SAVE GAME. U need 
 walk whole mission without right to be saved. The game is hard, so u will play one mission over 
 and over againe , until u will remeber every AI position in the mission.
  
  Missions are boring but hard, one good thing is weapons u can choose a lot of them, and try each. 
 Snipers rifles kind of sucks, but if u used to them u will be victorious.
  
  I have Ge Force 5500 Fx videocard what is in 2006 year is sucks, however the game was eating whole 
 my Video card memory, and game was somehaw freezy.
  
  DONT BUY THIS GAME........... WAST OF MONEY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipinbaadshah
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  why why why they created it..... it has got a bit of good graphics and wat else..... nothing else.... it 
 has not the good sound effects and after playing project igi 1 we expected more from the game but 
 it has go way down the expectations 
  why they made it so realistic that our hero can only carry a few weapons 
  i finished the game 
 4 times but i never did find and medipack
  i thought that they had kept none so why did they assign a key for it
  the game play is dull 
 nothing new but for shooting millions of bullets
  why doesnt he get bullets at the end of mission???
  carry same used up clips to the next mission?
 
  most annoying was the thermal vision..... and when i compared it with the one from splinter cell..... woooo 
 wat a difference
  i had really liked the first part of the game i mean the project igi 1... and project igi 2 stands 
 nowhere in front of it
  what else
  after reading this only a fool should buy it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advo02
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, IGI 2: Covert Strike does not live up to its predecessor in any way, shape, or form. 
 I remember spending hours tooling through all the missions in the original IGI, and it wasn't just 
 the action that I enjoyed but the storyline and the characters as well. I never played past the 
 first level on this game, first because it was just plain bad, but second, and most importantly, 
 because it had SOOOO many graphics problems.
  
  I tried to play this game on my old computer and the game hardly ran. I turned down all the grpahics 
 options, but it still wouldn't run properly, so I figured my system just couldn't handle it. Eventually 
 I bought a new machine, with a top-of-the-line ATI graphics card, and I installed the game. Excited 
 to play the sequel to one of my favorites, I began the first mission, but the graphics problems 
 were still there! Only this time there were no excuses. I downloaded the latest patch but still 
 no change. The game constatnly froze on the cutscenes and I couldn't even GET to the second mission. 
 It was a complete waste of my time and money, and I suggest you don't make it a waste of yours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Well it never happen before but all the efforts I put in this game to run smoothly failed so I 
 decided to delete it from my system. I have played just to the weather station what a lost of time 
 I put in that section and everything when I was restarting the mission I was in the 3 view mode 
 and could'nt believe to restart the game every single time from the main menu and now my patience 
 is gone far away and I decide to delete this piece of junk out of my system. Maybe it was even 
 worser than Breed a few years ago and maybe not worth buying al all. Play it if you wish but don't 
 install it on your system because it gives you a lot of head-tick instead of pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  igi-2 is more engrossing than igi and a game which presents great many possibilities but it just 
 stresses on killing every other enemy to achieve the preset objectives with very little scope for 
 using one's brains. often u can hide in corners and take down soldiers one by one while they keep 
 coming at you all the time. just disgusting.
  
  pros: u can lie down, stand, crouch unlike igi part one and slit throats in "missing in action 2" 
 style, hide in the grasses and remain undetected while the patrolling party passes just at a hair's 
 distance from you. it is realistic, with very little medipacks (but with mission uploading facility 
 so that u dont have to start the level all over again) and ability to carry just about 1 primary 
 and secondary weapon each. so whenever u come across a new weapon u will have to choose between 
 either of them. this is realistic unlike the former where u carry almost anything u can get ur hands 
 on. morever the dragunov here just blasts and can alert the enemy, so no easy sniping dude! some 
 missions include street battles, which reminds me of medal of honour. music is better this time. thermal 
 imaging is another cool addition.
  
  prons: kill, kill, kill all the time, cannot pick up each and every other weapon like igi-1, uploading 
 facility just restricted to 4 attempts and the battery exhausts after that, least possibility of 
 remaining undetected.
  
  OVERALL: good to try one's bucks on if available at concessional rates or if a first timer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 26, 2004 11:48 pm PT
Review:  IGI 2 has some excellent qualities. First and foremost, the sound is absolutely the best weapon 
 audio ever. In any game. The diversity of weapons available, their modeling, kickback and powerful 
 report are nothing short of astounding. Also you can shoot through some materials like wooden doors 
 and wall or crates to eliminate the enemy. But obviously you can't shoot through concrete. The 
 ability to shoot through object is very well done. 
  
  A second great quality of the game is the enormous levels and missions that you have to go through. 
 This game came out about a year before Far Cry, and the levels are even larger than the ones in 
 Far Cry, but they are not quite as colorful or detailed. Even still, the diverse locations that 
 you infiltrate are very well done and despite level enormity, frame rate is excellent. Many different 
 locales are visitied in this game. Some of these location include Libya, China and the Carpathian 
 mountains. The mountain vista's are stunning and again, the size of the levels are impressive. 
 Overall the graphics are very good and provide an industrial/military feel.
  
  Another great feature of the game is the protagonists movements. Accuracy of weapon fire is affected 
 by how you are in position. If you run, your accuracy is horrible. If you stop moving and crouch, 
 you get a pretty good shot off. If you lie prone, you get a very accurate shot at the enemy. This 
 type of character control is excellent. Also well done is the peek function, although you can't 
 peek and fire your weapon at the same time, the peek function is handy to covertly spy on the enemy. 
 
  
  The in game PDA is excellent and provides your objectives and a detailed examination at locations 
 and enemy patrols. It is vital to your success in this game and it is where you are allowed to 
 save your progress. The overview it proves is from a satellite perspective and is very well done 
 and easy to use and navigate. Also your character is provided with thermal goggles and a great 
 pair of binoculars. They are both excellent.
  
  The story for the game is quite intriguing as well. It has a few minor twists that keep you involved 
 but isn't overkill or unbelievable.
  
  All the above information is what is exceptional about this game. Unfortunately, the AI is as dumb 
 as a rock. They use absolutely no tactics whatsoever. To make up for thier stupidity, they have 
 an incredibly accurate shot. This can make the game very difficult and one has to take caution 
 in proceeding. You must shoot and take cover, or you will get rushed (they generally run right 
 at you) and they are able to pick you off quite easily. Also some of the missions can become aggravating 
 because of the number of enemy you have to take out because the odds can be a tad overwhelming 
 because of their accuracy. Even from great distances with a hand gun. 
  
  The failure of any real enemy AI is what keeps this game down. Big time. If they had some intelligence, 
 yet couldn't pick you off from 1000 meteres with an Uzi, this game would of received awards. Too 
 bad because everything else is nearly perfect. InnerLoop (developer) came so close to producing 
 a balls to the walls experience. But the weak AI and how the developer overcame this shortcoming 
 (aggravation provided by accuracy) left a bitter taste in many gamers mouths. Too bad, because 
 the game is still very, very good in most aspects. 
  
  In conclusion, this game receives the highest attainable award (from me) for weapon sound and functionality. 
 There are other great aspects to this game, but in the end, all of its goodness is severely hampered 
 by horrible enemy interaction. I hope Innerloop will continue this series and tweak the AI and 
 their tactics a bit. They will have a great game if they do, because there are so many good qualities 
 to this title and with significant overhaul of AI, could be amongst the best tactical FPS games, 
 ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowRowe
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 21, 2003 10:15 pm PT
Review:  One word comes to mind as I "play" this game - turd. There is very little of value to be found 
 in this game, especially considering the myriad of quality shooters out there now. I gave it so 
 many chances.... really wanted to like it... even just a little bit. But as annoyances piled up on 
 annoyances, I hit my breaking point and have decided to not waste another minute of my life playing 
 this wretched game. I have uninstalled and deleted all IGI2 files and have boiled my rig for good 
 measure to ensure that all remants on this game are gone. Codemasters.... what have you done? Operation 
 Flashpoint was such a good game... why did this garbage have to be made? Save yourself the heartache 
 and the disappointment... avoid this game at all costs. I wouldn't even play it if someone gave 
 it to me for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2003 8:24 pm PT
Review:  From a womans view this game is fantastic and very underated. High end computer, graphics, sound, and 
 fast CPU make it one of the best overlooked games of 2003. Congrats Codemasters you have outdone 
 yourself! Superb music and FX Sound. Graphics are smooth. I rated this review on a Gateway 700 XL,2500 
 CPU,
  Creative Labs EAX Sound Card, and of course a NVIDIA GeForce4 Ti 4600 Graphics Card. Movies scrolled 
 flawlessly. Game controls where just as superb as the graphics and sound. To save a lil face I also 
 reviewed it on "Alienwares"
  "Area 51 System" completely loaded with all the best graphics and sound cards "Alienware" had to 
 offer and Windows -XP fully loaded again this game ran flawlessly.
  Keep up the great work CodeMasters! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
