-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: IHRA Drag Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/ihradragracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.5, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 22 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Drag Racing
Date:     Dec 3, 2000

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Because of all the game's problems, it seems likely that not many players will stick with it long 
 enough to enjoy it. 

 If you carefully examine the retail packaging of Bethesda Softworks' IHRA Drag Racing, you'll probably 
 notice something missing: the name of the game. The only instance that it's actually called IHRA 
 Drag Racing is in the tiny text on the back of the box; everywhere else, it simply reads "IHRA 
 Motorsports." Maybe the absence of the game's title on the box isn't necessarily that big of a 
 deal. But in this case, the omission is emblematic of the entire game, which is too unpolished 
 and incomplete to be suitable for anyone besides the most patient and most serious racing enthusiasts. 
   

  Bethesda Softworks promised a lot of enhancements for IHRA Drag Racing, but in the shipping version 
 of the game, far too many of these are completely left out; or they don't work as they're supposed 
 to. And though it's been three years since Bethesda published Burnout, the first drag racing simulation 
 for the PC, the company's latest drag racing simulation suffers from many of the same problems 
 that kept the first game from being entirely successful.   

  Drag racing might seem like a simple sport, but there's much more to it than meets the eye. As 
 in Burnout, the list of engine and chassis modifications in IHRA Drag Racing can be enough to make 
 your head swim - there are so many variables that it makes tweaking an engine in a complex racing 
 sim like Grand Prix Legends seem like child's play by comparison. With so many things to adjust, 
 you'd expect a manual that's clearly organized - one that gives you some guidance as to which areas 
 are most critical to optimizing performance. Instead, the IHRA Drag Racing manual throws a lot 
 of information at you in a matter-of-fact style that's sure to leave less mechanically inclined 
 players reeling.   

  If the manual had offered a basic tutorial that explained some of the possible mechanical adjustments, 
 it would have gone a long way toward easing the game's very steep learning curve. But all you get 
 is four pages of generic setup information and a few tips on how to improve your chances of winning 
 bracket races, in which the dragsters leave the start line at different times. What's most surprising 
 of all is that the table of contents page is blank, and since there's no index either, it can be 
 mighty difficult to find a vital piece of information, like where you set your dial-in time.   
 

  Fine-tuning your engine, transmission, suspension, chassis, and other components makes up a large 
 part of the challenge in drag racing - you'll probably spend more time in the garage than actually 
 running races. Fortunately, once you figure out the major stuff, it's actually pretty fun to make 
 changes and then head out for a practice run to see how much acceleration you've gained or if your 
 top-end speed improved. However, in the garage, there are a couple of quirks that might leave you 
 confused. The manual claims that you can sort chassis types with filters - so that you can choose 
 to look only at rails, funny cars, classics, and so forth - but it doesn't work. You have to scroll 
 through all chassis types regardless of the type you selected. Since there are more than 50 chassis 
 types to choose from, this can be frustrating. What's even worse is that certain chassis stats, 
 such as total weights and corner weights, don't change when you select a new chassis; instead, 
 you have to select a new chassis and then hit a "reset all" button to see the correct information. 
    

 IHRA Drag Racing features 10 of the 11 tracks that make up the 2001 IHRA Summit Drag Racing Series, 
 as well as the cars of 20 IHRA racers from various categories. The box claims you'll race against 
 these IHRA luminaries, but instead you get fictional drivers sitting in the cars of the stars. 
 Otherwise, you'd expect at least a little background info on the 20 real-life drivers whose cars 
 are featured in the game, especially since they aren't household names - but the game just assumes 
 you already know all about them, so it doesn't offer any biographical data.   

  The game claims to model full weather dynamics at the 10 tracks, but this also doesn't work as 
 you'd expect - namely, setting the weather conditions to "random" doesn't result in random weather. 
 We were shocked when the random-weather option made for a 109-degree scorcher -  at night  - in 
 Cordova, Illinois, and we were even more surprised when the weather remained unchanged when we 
 moved on to the next event in Darlington. And once a season begins, there's no way to alter the 
 environmental conditions. There's no point in modeling full weather dynamics if you can only change 
 the setting before single events or single races.   

  The actual racing in IHRA Drag Racing is enjoyable, though the car graphics are merely fair and 
 the flame effects coming from the sides of the cars look terrible. The game doesn't let you do 
 much with the appearance of your car, although you can use a third-party paint program to customize 
 your car's appearance. But since the game doesn't give any guidance on this process, it can take 
 a lot of work just to get your own logo on a car in a way that it can actually be read. Also, since 
 drag racing is all about sheer power, it's only fair to expect good force feedback support from 
 a game like this - especially since force feedback is one of the features touted on the game's 
 Web site. However, force feedback support isn't actually available in the game, and neither is 
 a full-screen VCR mode - you have to watch replays in a tiny box that takes up about an eighth 
 of the screen.   

  Bethesda did release a patch very soon after IHRA Drag Racing shipped. But the sheer number of 
 issues it fixed or addressed - more than 20 bugs, along with important added features like engine 
 damage - is enough evidence to make you suspect that the game might have been released before it 
 was totally tested so that it would hit shelves before Christmas. One of the biggest changes the 
 patch delivered was built-in GameSpy support for Internet play, but we found no opponents online 
 on Bethesda's IHRA server.   

  If you devote a lot of time and patience to the game, there's certainly some fun to be had in IHRA 
 Drag Racing. Unfortunately, because of all the game's problems, it seems likely that not many players 
 will stick with it long enough to enjoy it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nascarnetboggy
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The Good - 50 Cars ranging from Classics to Pro Cars, Somewhat good physics, Graphics are okay 
 for a game released in 2000, Neat damage model...
  
  The Bad - A massive array of glitches and bugs that make the game crash, No tutorial for setting 
 up the car, Entire game feels rushed as patches fix problems that should have been addressed before 
 the game was released...
  
  
  No matter how much you try, it is darn near impossible to enjoy IHRA 2000. Bethesda Softworks, 
 the company that brought you Burnout Championship Drag Racing makes it's fourth attempt at producing 
 a full-simulation of the sport of drag racing. However, they failed miserably. IHRA 2000 is not 
 only one of the worst racing games of all time, but probably the most broken game ever made. Honestly, 
 what company releases a game while it is still in beta form???
  
  Upon loading up IHRA 2000, you get a very nice intro movie, followed by a very bland looking menu. 
 A few different options are present, including Race, Shop, Options, Tracks, and VCR. Of course, 
 if you want to pick your car, you'd head to the shop...
  
  After entering the shop, you get a truck-load of options. 50 different cars are available for you 
 to drive right from start-up. The majority of these cars are street cars, such as a 1972 Barracuda, 
 1957 Chevy Bel-Air, all the way to a 1998 Pontiac Firebird. Once you are finished drooling at these, 
 you'll find the Pro cars. The game has four classes of Professional cars, ranging from Top Fuel, 
 Funny Car, Pro Stock, and Pro Mod. It also includes a handful of fictional cars based in these 
 classes, and there is something for everyone...
  
  The game really starts to open up as you scroll through the different shop options. Almost everything 
 that can be done to a real race car can be done in here. You can change everything in the engine, 
 transmission, suspension, and chassis. A neat thing with these options, is that some adjustments 
 can be seen on your car. If you don't want a wing, it won't appear on your car. Same with the wheelie-bar. 
 Changing the length and height will appear on the car. It's amazing how many things you can do 
 to your car in this game...
  
  After spending at least ten minutes in the shop, you can head to the track. 9 tracks are waiting 
 to be selected in this game, and all of them are from the 2000 IHRA season. All of the tracks are 
 designed quite well, and they look like they should. Some of the ground textures look quite ugly 
 though, but it still looks good for an old game. You'll also be able to change the weather, to 
 run at any time during the day, which is a nice touch. You can also pick a few preset conditions, 
 but it's weird seeing a "Tropical" climate in Grand Bend, Ontario...
  
  You have a few different options of how you want to race in IHRA 2000. You have to pick your class 
 first, and there are about 9 or 10 preset ones. You'll get your standard Bracket, and Heads-Up 
 races, but you'll also find Top Fuel, Pro Mod, Pro Stock, and Funny Car rules. These rules don't 
 really affect the racing, but they do affect the way you set up your engine. Some classes have 
 a minimum weight requirement, a certain body style requirement, and other little things here and 
 there. If you don't meet all of the standards (which you can check in the shop by hitting the "Tech 
 Inspection" button) , you won't be able to race. For the most part, you'll want to choose Heads-Up 
 or Bracket, since those offer the most flexibility. You can also create your own class if you want. 
 Once you are done selecting your class, you can choose a few different race types, how many people 
 are in the race, the difficulty, and so fourth. Practice gives you a single run, racing only yourself, 
 Single Race puts you against a random opponent, Single Event lets you run a full event, and Season... well... lets 
 you run a Season. All of the modes are pretty well balanced, but none of them are really in-depth, 
 and Season mode doesn't explain how the point system works...
  
  The game seems pretty fun after choosing all of your settings, but the fun factor starts to crumble 
 as soon as you're at the track behind the wheel of your car. The game doesn't instruct you to do 
 anything, so if you're new to drag racing, you might have a hard time. You can do your burnout 
 in several ways, and all of them work okay. After the burnout, you are told to stage your car (put 
 it at the starting line) . The game does a good job of showing how close you are to the line, with 
 a great "Tree" HUD. Once staged, the three amber lights come on, and its up to you to react as 
 quickly as you can to get down the track. Leaving too early, crossing over to the other lane, and 
 hitting the wall will disqualify you. So, where does the game fall apart?
  
  The answer is simple, as soon as the amber lights go out...
  
  The driving model in IHRA 2000 
 is horrible. The default setups for some cars have the front wheels launch waaaaay up in the air, 
 making the car too difficult to drive. In fact, IHRA 2000 is hard for all the wrong reasons. There 
 is no Tire Shake (loss of traction) , no pedal-fests (trying to get back in control by going on 
 and off the gas) , and not too many blown motors. Thats right! Unless you have the patch, it's impossible 
 to blow the engine! The physics are okay, but it has the wrong order of driving difficulty. In 
 real life, Top Fuel and Funny Cars are hard to drive, and the street cars are a breeze. In this 
 game, it's almost impossible to keep the street cars straight, but you don't even need to tough 
 the controls for the so-called "faster cars". 
  
  The AI cars also aren't that great. Their difficulty can be set, but they don't seem to have any 
 problems while driving. They don't lose traction, they don't crash, and they rarely make a mistake 
 while driving. If you have a fast setup, but it's hard to handle, the AI cars will slaughter you...
 
  
  There is an online mode, but it doesn't work as well as it should. In fact, it doesn't work at 
 all. Clicking the online mode button will crash the game. Actually, it's a good training tool, 
 because the game crashes a lot...
  
  If you plan on getting the game, the only place you can find it is www. shra. net. No, it's not illegal, 
 because SHRA is the official partner of Bethesda. If you have this version, too, you might notice 
 all of the bugs this game has. This is not from the online version, this was how the game was released. 
 The patches fix most errors, but patch 1.01 has an install error, rendering it useless. Also, the 
 game has a weird "Car Error", that when appears, will crash your game. If you see an opponent that 
 has this in their vehicle title, exit out of the race, and restart it. This prevents having big 
 fields of cars because of this glitch, and it gets very annoying. The VCR feature, which lets you 
 watch your race in almost any view possible (this rivals the Papyrus replay system) only lets you 
 watch the race in a tiny screen in the bottom left corner. Sadly, it cannot be enlarged to fit 
 the entire monitor, so you're stuck squinting to see the awesome wreck you just had.
  
  After a while of playing IHRA 2000, the game just begins to get dull. Tuning your car is fun for 
 a little while, but gets tiresome with just too many options. The Car Error bug puts you on edge 
 for a little bit, as it's impossible to run a big field without the bug hindering your day. There's 
 also just not much else to do between racing. Maybe it's because the cars just aren't fun to drive. 
 You don't have to battle the car to stay in the groove for the Pro cars, but it's darn near impossible 
 to keep the wheels on the ground with the street cars.
  There's not a good variety in Season mode, and having to adjust the AI to match your skills just 
 wastes time.
  
  - - - Score Summary - - -
  
  Gameplay - 4 - Tuning cars is fun, but the racing is boring, as little skill is required, and there 
 is little difference between the nine tracks. It's frustrating to race the street cars, but if 
 you hit the "Reset to Defaults" button in the setup screen, they go too slow, and just aren't fun 
 to drive. Most modes are quite bland, and the weather is the exact same for all events in Season 
 mode. A few different race options, but it's too hard to figure out how to tweak the engine so 
 you can drive in Top Fuel. Plus, the Car Error glitch prevents you from running large fields of 
 cars...
  
  Graphics - 6 - The graphics look good from far away, but they are horrible close up. The paint 
 schemes on the cars are blurry, and there is no racing groove on the track. Most of the tracks 
 look good, but have very bland textures. Top Alcohol Funny Cars have flames out the sides, yet 
 in real life they don't, because they don't run on Nitromethane. Menu artwork is somewhat good...
 
  
  Sound - 4 - The in-game announcer is very dull, and has about 7 lines of commentary. You can choose 
 the engine sound for your car, but you can only select from street car sounds. You can't actually 
 pick from engine sounds from Top Fuel cars or anything like that. In fact, I didn't really notice 
 the sound at all, since there was so little of it. The music in the game is horrible...
  
  Value - 4 - It's an okay bargain for $10.00, but it's now for free at www. shra. net, and that's 
 okay, since this game isn't really worth the $10.00 asking price...
  
  Reviewers Tilt - 4 - For the few days I played it, it's merely okay. It would have gotten higher 
 if there was a car setup tutorial, or simply more cars, more tracks, and less annoying glitches...
 
  
  Final - 4.3/10.0 - IHRA 2000 is an okay game at first, but it runs out of gas too quickly. The 
 glitches mess up the fun factor a lot, and you'll crash to the desktop faster than it takes your 
 car to run a quarter-mile. If you can get by all the glitches and just want to mess around with 
 the car setup, it's actually quite an enjoyable game. But for those who want to race and have fun 
 doing it, look in the exact opposite direction of IHRA 2000... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
