-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: IL-2 Sturmovik: Forgotten Battles - Ace
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/il2sturmovikfbace/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 279 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: 1C
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Mar 2, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The list of minor flaws could go on and on, but its total length is minuscule compared to the massive 
 number of excellent additions this expansion serves up. 

  The best WWII flight sim just got better, thanks to the Ace Expansion Pack for IL-2 Sturmovik: 
 Forgotten Battles. This add-on doesn't really have a theme, but when there's this much new stuff 
 to play with, it really doesn't need one. There are 20 new flyable planes (with variants of certain 
 models pushing the total number of new aircraft to 28) , along with new Ardennes, Normandy, and 
 Pacific maps, and enough new campaigns and missions to placate fans until 1C: Maddox's upcoming 
 Battle of Britain sim is released.  

          A stricken B-17 futilely returns fire at a passing Ho-229 Flying Wing.     

  A number 
 of new prop planes have been included, some of which have already appeared in previous free patches. 
 However, these  have been  updated enough to justify a commercial release. American P-51B, P-51C, 
 and P-51D Mustangs, along with P-38L and P-38J Lightnings, can now escort nonflyable B-17Gs and 
 C-47s. Additionally, the P-63C Kingcobra -- the majority of which were sent to Russia under the Lend-Lease 
 Program -- makes its first appearance. British pilots get four versions of the highly maneuverable 
 Spitfire Mk. Vb to help fend off a number of new German planes, including the heavily armed twin-hulled 
 Bf-109Z, the Ju-87D-5, the long-awaited twin-engine Bf-110G-2, and the tricky Ta-152H-1. Meanwhile, 
 the Japanese get the maneuverable but fragile A6M2 and A6M5 Zeros, along with three variants of 
 the nigh-unstoppable Ki-84 Hayate ("Frank") . There are a few other flyable prop planes as well, 
 including the J8A, the Fiat CR.42 and G.50, and the IAR-80A and IAR-81C.  

  A few new flyable jets and rocket-propelled fighters have also been added to the virtual hangar. 
 Most are equipped with devastating armaments, and all are incredibly fragile under fire, so fights 
 between these speedy aircraft tend to be swift and brutal. The American YP-80, the precursor to 
 the Korean Conflict's P-80/F-80 Shooting Star, is a nimble match for German jet-powered Me-262s, 
 new He-162A-2s, and new Ho-229 A1 Flying Wings. The Me-163B rocket fighter is incredibly challenging 
 and rewarding to fly because it must be nursed gently at speeds in excess of 1,000kph to avoid 
 blacking out, and ammunition for its powerful cannons is limited.  

  A few oddities were thrown in that serve as interesting diversions. The flyable Mistel is literally 
 a blast, since it consists of a hollowed out Ju-88 bomber -- which has been packed with tons of explosives -- that 
 has a FW-190 fighter harnessed to its top. The pilot sits in the fighter, where the control stick 
 moves the control surfaces of both the fighter and the Ju-88 to help guide the behemoth to its 
 target. The pilot just aims, detaches the bomber, scrambles out of the way of the mushroom cloud 
 that appears a few seconds later, and enjoys watching the replay over and over and over again. 

  V1 rockets are another challenging addition, since it is possible for fast fighters to pull up 
 alongside them to tap them with their wings, thus nudging the jet-powered bombs off course. This 
 same method was used by actual WWII pilots because shooting at a V1 generally caused an explosion 
 that was large enough to heavily damage or destroy the pursuing fighter.  

          You don't want to be anywhere near the pointy end of this recently-detached Mistel megabomb. 
     

  The cockpits and skins included with the new planes are spectacular. The J8A cockpit, in particular, 
 is a thing of beauty. Additionally, some new optional effects give the water a more realistic look -- at 
 the expense of reduced frame rates. Outside of this, little has changed in the graphics and sound 
 departments, but since IL-2 Sturmovik: Forgotten Battles looked and sounded great to begin with, 
 no upgrades were really necessary.  

  The expansion comes with dozens of new single-player missions that incorporate the new planes, 
 as well as several new dynamic campaigns that feature combatants from the Polish to the Hungarians. 
 One of the most interesting campaigns has the player flying the aforementioned J8A (the Swedish 
 version of the British Gloster Gladiator) while fighting for Finland against the Russians during 
 the Continuation War. The obscurity of this campaign represents all that is good about the IL-2 
 series. Here you are in a fixed-gear biplane of a 1930s vintage (designed by the British and supplied 
 by the Swedes) that is struggling to launch itself airborne to plink away at marauding Russian 
 SB 2M-100A bombers that appear to be powered by washing machines. The IL-2 series has always brought 
 these sideshows to the center ring, and in many ways, the results are far more entertaining than 
 typical WWII air battles, which usually involve high-profile, high-powered, and heavily armed front-line 
 fighters.     

  Another focal point of this series is the low-altitude combat that was typical of the eastern front, 
 as opposed to the relatively high-altitude aerial battles that were common on the western front. 
 This expansion embellishes this theme. Many of the complaints that have been leveled about flight 
 models on the official and unofficial forums revolve around the fact that compared to expectations, 
 legendary fighters like the P-51D and P-38L seem to underperform, while others, like the Japanese 
 Ki-84 "Frank," perform much too well. To be fair, the Frank  does  seem to be a bit too potent, 
 but these arguments rarely seem to take into account that most combat in the single-player missions 
 and campaigns take place at altitudes of 15,000 feet or below -- and many times at altitudes much 
 lower than this. Staying down in the weeds makes combat much more exciting, but it also contradicts 
 most of the perceived notions about aircraft capabilities that many players have had pounded into 
 their heads for years. For example, compare the performance of a P-51D Mustang to a nonsupercharged 
 P-39 Airacobra at 20,000 feet, and the P-39 turns into a pathetic joke. Make the same comparison 
 at 2,000 feet, and the P-39 becomes much more formidable.  

          Jets and rockets feature prominently in the new expansion, including planes like this American 
 YP-80, which is in the process of picking apart an Me-262.     

  The bottom line for players is that unless they find people to play with online who want to fight 
 at high altitudes, they must throw out most of the generalities they "know" about the most famous 
 WWII fighters to learn how all the planes perform at low to midrange altitudes. The clipped-wing 
 variants of the Spitfire Mk. Vb aircraft included in this package are perfect examples of modified 
 planes that generally work better in the sim than their standard-model counterparts do. In these 
 fighters, each end of the Spitfire's trademark elliptical wings is lopped off to give the plane's 
 roll rate a boost and to improve its low-altitude speed, but the trade-off is vastly inferior performance 
 at high altitude, compared to the standard Spitfire. There are some exceptions, like the jets, 
 rockets, and the Ta-152H-1, which is incredible above 20,000 feet but inspires much less confidence 
 down low. Overall, however, prepare to spend a lot of time dodging trees.  

  There are no specific mentions of AI improvements in any of the documentation that accompanies 
 this expansion, but during testing, AI friends and foes pulled off some tricks we've never seen 
 them do in the past. During one battle, we watched an AI P-38 pilot lazily corkscrew upwards and 
 to his right by using his superior engine power to slowly extend away from four pursuing Zeros, 
 which was a tactic commonly used during the war. On another occasion, we watched as an AI-controlled 
 Me-109 used a series of vertical switchback turns for a good five minutes to extend away from a 
 pursuing Spitfire while simultaneously staying out of his opponent's sights. The Me-109 then turned 
 violently to fire a snapshot that went straight into the top of the Spitfire's canopy for a quick 
 kill. At the higher difficulty levels, AI planes often fight in the vertical instead of trying 
 to dogfight in horizontal-turning battles, and they almost universally take advantage of the strengths 
 of their aircraft.  

  No matter how good the AI is, it can't compare to the challenge of facing off against seasoned 
 veterans online, and the Ace expansion offers many new online missions, including several new cooperative 
 multiplayer ones and an online cooperative dynamic campaign. This mode automatically generates 
 new missions when old ones are completed -- just as in the offline dynamic campaigns -- but you get 
 to fly the missions with your buddies to keep track of scores. Newcomers should be aware that flying 
 online is extremely unforgiving. The IL-2 community is a particularly hardcore group of gamers, 
 and players who don't want to manually deal with things like propeller pitch and supercharger settings 
 should stick to the game's excellent single-player component.  

          A P-51 sidles up to a V1 to give it a tip. One false move equals instant death.     

 
  Despite all the additions, there still is room for improvement. It still isn't possible to use 
 all of the available maps in the Quick Mission Builder, although the new Pacific map was added 
 as an option. There, surprisingly, are no dynamic campaigns included for the new American fighters. 
 Most planes don't stall properly and, instead, immediately begin to spin. Many cockpit gauges are 
 modeled but are nonfunctional. The P-38's propellers can't counterrotate to eliminate torque, as 
 they did in real life (though this is probably due to an inherent limitation in IL-2's flight engine) . 
 This list of minor flaws could go on and on, but its total length is minuscule compared to the 
 massive number of excellent additions this expansion serves up. As a result, IL-2 fans should nab 
 a copy immediately, despite its relatively high price. Newcomers should also look into the IL-2 
 Sturmovik: Forgotten Battles Gold Edition, which comes with IL-2: Forgotten Battles and the Ace 
 Expansion. Furthermore, all users should keep an eye out for an upcoming free patch that will include 
 several more planes. IL-2 may already reign as the best WWII air combat series, but if it keeps 
 getting expansions like this and continues to receive such enthusiastic support from its developers 
 and fan community, it has nowhere to go but up.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game, however you have to have the patch to play, and the version that is out in the 
 stores is not the up to date version, the store version is like v1.0 and u need v4.04. Without 
 it the game will not work, it will say please download the update. And then it wont let you play. 
 And you can only update from the v4.03 patch to the v4.04 patch. And you cant download the v4.02 
 patch which is the only way to upgrade to the v4.03 patch, and so on and so forth, so now you understand 
 that it is very confusing and stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametzu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best flight combat sim you could ever play... At this times, with dual core chip 
 sets, and all the powerful hardware available, this game is not yet beaten, and it will be beaten 
 only by himself. It has the spirit, the chivalry heart, the bloodless action, the supreme sensation 
 of flying a 2000 horsepower fire spiting beast, it brings back an era that lasted only 6 years... but 
 will remain in our eyes retinas for centuries. This game is a piece of art, a history saver, and 
 I will continue playing it until my very last moment... if rheumatism lets me.. he he =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezapa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  one of the best flight sims ive played in a long time. online is fun but some of the aces you find 
 online, are allways on yur six, but theres enough, games open to find your league, or you can create 
 yur own game for new people.
  ive spent hours upon hours trying all the different planes and weapon's and i allways have a blast 
 online or off. Full mission builder is a great feature, and if you merge pacific fighter's into 
 ace expansion pack, the hours of fun you can have are limitless.
  well time to hit the seat in my spitfire, and go blast some holes in my friends wing's lol. have 
 fun and watch yur six.......................... : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superpolo007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  If u want to be a pilote during WWII, the Il-2 series are the best. The graphics are just amazing 
 and the number of aircraft is so great that you will easily get lost if ur a beginner. And a lot 
 of these aircraft have mulitiple versions and skins. You can change the skin to fly in the aircraft's 
 of the greatest aces of all time. German pilotes. You can begin with an old biplane like the Gloster 
 Gladiator and end in the cockpit of multiple jets like the me-262 or the he-162. The only major 
 problem in the aircraft category are the heavy bombers. You can't fly in any of them. They are 
 only in AI and only the american ones and a russian one. That sucks. But this compensated by exelent 
 graphics. They are just amazing. The damage an aircraft gets is very well done. Ok, another thing, 
 a thing i did and that you should do. Buy Il-2 and also Pacific Fighters. After this you can put 
 them together and have all aircraft and maps in one game. Thats a lot of aircraft.
  Well, now i hope you know the game better. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  So far in the history of flying games, IL-2 is probably one of the best ever WW2 flying games made 
 out, it includes ultimate detail in every aspect of the game play. With the game been so successful, 
 a Great expansion is released which has many great extra to it. 
  
  There are many many more planes to choose from as you wish, even some include flying the jet and 
 rocket planes is are outstandingly fast to even describe !!
  Along with that, improved detail is even better from the previous, there are many more different 
 types of missions which are included which you could spend over a year to complete. Advance Multiplayer 
 is the real ACE of the game, this is wher you can use your tatics to show off online and defeat 
 your enemy. The game hardly any aspect of bugs anywhere, in fact i haven't come across any so far.
 
  
  Anyone who loves Simulation games which include fighting to the ultimate facing realistic conditions 
 then this is the game for you ( you need IL-2 game before ACE expansion) .
  
  If your intending to buy the game now and intend to play on multiplayer then you really now have 
 to get IL-2, Ace expansion AND Pacific Fighters, this is where the real fun begins when you can 
 put all the games together as a merged game, everyone now who plays online has got this and hardly 
 anyone plays on IL-2 standalone version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I've played IL2 Sturmovik since the first patch to that venrable game came out some years ago. 
 I've eagerly awaited and gobbled up each and every addition to that series. So needless to say 
 it was with much anticipation that I loaded IL-2 Sturmovik: Forgotten Battles - Ace Expansion Pack 
 onto my machine.
  
  Installation:
  Installation was quick and easy and adding this onto my pre-existing version o Forgotten Battles 
 was a snap. No conflicts, hang ups or glitches just an easy install on a system with Windows XP 
 Pro and an ATI graphics card. 
  
  Graphics:
  I built a new computer in July of 2004 and really wanted to see what it could do. With this in 
 mind I maxed out all the settings on this game including the elusive "perfect" setting for water 
 and waited to be wowed and boy was I. The graphics on this game are nothing short of amazing. On 
 mid to high end rig you can find yourself counting rivets on the inside and outside of the cockpits. 
 With the right rig you can have 30 some odd planes flying at fighting in the air at the same time 
 in all their beautifully rendered glory. The only downside is if you're playing without Icons it's 
 near impossible to find aircraft silohetted against the ground or ground targets that don't shoot 
 at you to expose themselves. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Like any flight sim you're have to strike a balance between being an arcade shooter and and a training 
 aid for the US Air Force. F. B. - Ace strikes a nice balance between the two. Truth be told there 
 is a learning curve here. Any noob that thinks they're gonna jump into the cockpit, start flying 
 with a mouse and hit anything is sorely mistaken. You need a decent joystick to play this came 
 correctly. Some folks of course go "hog wild" and get a seperate throttle, rudder pedals voice 
 coms and Track IR as well but you don't need that to have a satisfying single player expereince. 
 Singel player is good if not great with sufficient different campagins and difficulty settings 
 to satisfy any simmer. Online play is great as well but not for noobs or the faint of heart. There 
 are deep, organized squadrons out there online and they play for keeps. 
  
  Sound:
  Outstanding sound, music and effects. Nothing quite like that sickening feeling of hearing bullet 
 impacts in your rear speakers. Sounds track well from speaker to speaker and a wide variety of 
 configurations are offered. 
  
  Overall Rating:
  I'd have to give this game a 9 as expansion packs go. New planes added, new campaigns and maps. 
 Improved models and bug fixes. You can't ask any more from an add-on. I personally can't wait to 
 see what Oleg and boys have up thier sleeves next.
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nictipoloi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2004 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This add-on is something every hard core fan of the original game must have. It fixes a few glitches, 
 but it enhance the gaming experience a lot with the new plane models. Some missions are really 
 DIFFICULT (how do you spell SADIC?) , but overrall, it is nothing a hard core fligth sim pilot cant 
 handle
  The learning curve can ve very steep, and this is NOT a game you can give to a newby and hope he 
 'll master it within days... this is a REAL SIM, not an arcade game.
  On the downside, you need a REAL MACHINE to run it, specialy if you hope to enjoy the graphics 
 at max res. (a G Force 2 its BARELY the low line, and that ist a truism) . By the way, if you wanna 
 better experience, use a HOTAS like stick and pedals... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziek
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 2, 2004 6:06 am PT
Review:  If you are a flight sim fan (who enjoys realism) AND want to step back 60 or so years to a time 
 when being a good pilot meant you had an even chance of surviving aerial combat, this is THEE game. 
 The IL2 series is the most amazing flight sim to date... and we've looked at them ALL. The ACE expansion 
 and recent 2.01 update provides more planes of that generation including the Spitfire Mark IX. 
 This will date me a little, but my father flew the Spit (and a few others) while he was in the 
 RCAF during and post WWII, and these are included. 
  If you are concerned that the game may be a bit too realistic to enjoy, think again, you can back 
 off the realism to a place you feel comfortable and if you want to, increase the level to your 
 hearts content.
  This is, by far, the best combat flight sim out there. Pure adrenalin and realism.
  
  Ziek 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 18864749451398321099026457561272-Super_Chicken
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2004 8:35 am PT
Review:  IL-2 Aces i feel is a great game with great replay value. Although the single player campaigns 
 are rather boreing with long flight times the multi player function with friends is really something. 
 If you have a friend interesting in playing internet games where you shoot down b-17 bombers, have 
 dogfights this is the game for you! You can make your own campaigns, plane skins, even customize 
 your pilot. I made a Superman Pilot skin! Kind of odd seeing Superman flying around in a airplane 
 but hey it looks cool! There are some additional graphic improvements such as flying over water 
 at high speeds will create a wake in the water. alot of new planes and a few new maps includeing 
 a nice tropical island map. Overall il-2 aces is a good addon and will make IL-2 playable for a 
 good while to come. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
