-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: IL-2 Sturmovik: The Forgotten Battles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/il2sturmovikthefb/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 354 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: 1C
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Mar 2, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Forgotten Battles doesn't make the sort of huge impact that the original game did, but it's generally 
 a very worthy successor. 

 Released in 2001, IL-2 Sturmovik was a remarkable game, thanks to its unusual focus on WWII's eastern 
 front, its great attention to detail, its gorgeous graphics, and its interesting selection of planes. 
 The game's developer, 1C: Maddox Games, began working on an expansion pack, but along the way the 
 expansion grew to become a full-fledged, full-priced sequel. But Forgotten Battles really is just 
 like an expansion, since it's built around the same basic game engine, covers the same topic, and 
 shares a massive number of features with the original IL-2. While Forgotten Battles isn't the true 
 sequel you might have hoped for, and it suffers from its share of problems, there's a still lot 
 to like about it.           Forgotten Battles is billed as a full-on sequel to the original IL-2 
 Sturmovik.    

  Forgotten Battles includes all the planes and maps from the original IL-2, though it jettisons 
 that game's missions and campaigns. Getting to fly all those fascinating planes again is definitely 
 a point in Forgotten Battles' favor. Losing the original campaigns is actually a good thing, too, 
 since IL-2's clunky campaign system was one of the game's few significant weaknesses.   

  For new challenges, Forgotten Battles offers 20 new single-player missions and 10 multiplayer missions. 
 You'll rise to meet varied challenges, like defending a vital bridge, escorting IL-2 ground-attack 
 planes over the Gulf of Finland, attacking ships with torpedo bombers, and more. This time around, 
 you'll get to fly not only as the Soviets and Germans, but also as the Finns and Hungarians. As 
 a bonus of sorts, you'll even get to fly as the Americans in one mission, in which you attack a 
 Hungarian airfield. Solid enemy AI means you should get a challenge no matter which mission you 
 choose. While the missions are varied, they do suffer from some problems, like extremely long load 
 times and occasional stuttering during a mission when the game tries to load or process even more 
 data.   

  In addition to these missions, you'll find a full mission editor and a quick mission builder that 
 lets you set up varied air-to-air and air-to-ground engagements. With the quick mission builder, 
 you can choose the types of planes that you and the AI will fly, the skill level of the AI pilots, 
 the starting altitude, the weather, and more. Unfortunately, you'll get to engage in these quick 
 battles over just three maps -- the same old ones from the original IL-2, in fact.   

  Along with the new individual missions, Forgotten Battles has a revamped campaign system that dynamically 
 generates missions. You can choose to fly for the Soviets, Germans, Finns, or Hungarians, and you 
 can choose the year and general region where your campaign starts and what basic type of plane 
 you'll be flying.   

  Unfortunately, the campaign system suffers some of the same problems found in the original IL-2, 
 as well as some of the problems found in the new single missions. First, you'll have to sit through 
 some ridiculously long load times. Then you'll often find yourself reaching for the time compression 
 and autopilot keys to travel the 100km or more from your airbase to your target without dying of 
 boredom. Your mission objectives and status aren't always as clear as they should be, and the AI 
 wingmen can behave oddly, dropping bombs kilometers away from their intended targets. While the 
 combat engagements themselves are thrilling, you get precious little sense of actually taking part 
 in the epic conflict that played out in the East. All you get are some bland, terse, and poorly 
 written mission briefings with simple messages about losing a couple of planes on the last mission 
 or having Lieutenant So-And-So join the squadron. Missions within a single pilot's career can also 
 play out too similarly, though overall you'll get a lot of variety if you try all the different 
 career tracks available.           A spectacular way to go.    

  You can also head online to play and in a variety of cooperative and competitive modes. Online 
 play is one of Forgotten Battles' greatest strengths, especially since it features some exciting 
 new maps, including a dramatic mountainous map that provides all sorts of tactical interest. But 
 Forgotten Battles' multiplayer does have its share of problems -- specifically, you have to use Ubi 
 Soft's clumsy matchmaking software and deal with occasional lag and disconnects, not to mention 
 the minor bugs that appear throughout the game.   

  No matter what sort of missions you choose to play, you'll encounter a huge assortment of fascinating 
 planes, most of them flyable. You'll find numerous variants of workhorses like the Soviet IL-2 
 and German Bf 109 fighter. You'll pilot the famed Stuka dive-bomber, American-made planes like 
 the P-47 Thunderbolt supplied to the Soviets through the Lend-Lease program, and the British-made 
 Hurricane in Finnish service. You'll roar through the skies in the famed German Me 262 jet, preying 
 on lumbering bombers and startling enemy fighters. Overall, the variety of planes you'll fly or 
 fight against is really impressive: the game has everything from early-war biplanes to sea planes 
 to the enormous German Zwilling used to tow huge transport gliders.    

 Air combat on the eastern front mainly focused on tactical support of ground units, but bombers 
 certainly played a part in the conflict too. One of the most interesting new features in Forgotten 
 Battles is the ability to control multistation bombers, specifically the German He 111 and the 
 Soviet TB-3. You'll be able to pilot them, as well as operate the bombsights (no easy task) and 
 control all the different gun turrets, with the AI manning the stations not currently occupied 
 by a human player. Sitting aboard one of these ponderous beasts provides a whole new kind of drama 
 as enemy fighters race toward you. You'll be praying for your fighter escorts to arrive and that 
 you and the other gunners can get in some hits with the puny turret machine guns before your bomber 
 is shredded by enemy fire. It's too bad the game didn't include more flyable bombers, or at least 
 more interesting and powerful ones. The included Soviet TB-3, for example, seems more like a curiosity 
 than a really useful aircraft. In real life, relatively few were produced, and they were outdated 
 by the time the Germans invaded and mainly used in a transport role at that stage.           Damaged 
 planes can actually lose a single wing in flight.    

  As in the original IL-2, the flight models feel convincing, so you'll get a fun challenge not just 
 from the enemy, but also from trying to master the nuances of all the different planes. For added 
 interest and realism, you'll now find a number of optional advanced engine management features. 
 You'll get to change the supercharger stage, alter the mixture richness, switch between multiple 
 cowl/radiator-flap positions, and more. The skimpy manual doesn't describe all these features as 
 well as it should, and they generally don't add too much to the core of the game -- the combat -- but 
 they'll likely be welcomed by hard-core aviation fans.   

  You certainly won't need to be a hard-core fan to appreciate how great Forgotten Battles looks. 
 If there was any glamour among the unremitting ugliness of the eastern front, it was likely in 
 the skies. Many ground troops eagerly followed the exploits of their side's aces and would pause 
 to enjoy the visual spectacle of dogfights overhead. Forgotten Battles' beautiful graphics do a 
 splendid job capturing that aerial drama. Brilliantly colored tracers streak across the sky, and 
 debris flies off planes when they're hit, leaving gaping holes with charred framework exposed. 
 A damaged plane will soar through sky with fire and dense smoke pouring from a gutted engine, only 
 to corkscrew into the earth with a spectacular explosion. When a plane really gets torn apart, 
 you'll sometimes see one wing lazily twirl down into the sea while the rest of the ruined aircraft 
 plummets ahead of it like a rock.   

  Even outside of combat, the visuals provide plenty to admire. It's true that Forgotten Battles 
 relies on the same basic graphics engine as the original IL-2, but the engine was already excellent, 
 and it was upgraded for the sequel. A lot of the terrain looks marvelous -- expect to see rivers 
 meandering through lush farmland and factory smokestacks rising from large cities. The sun reflects 
 off rippling water, contrails snake across the sky when planes fly at high altitudes, and the clouds -- particularly 
 around nightfall -- are almost photo-realistic at times. The planes are almost universally gorgeous, 
 with highly detailed models and textures both outside and in. In fact, the internal views are pretty 
 amazing, with detailed, animated controls and panels. It's just a shame that the menus are still 
 as plain and uninviting as ever. Also, the game locked up our test system when we tried to run 
 it in OpenGL, which meant we had to rely on Direct3D. Unfortunately, the game lets you select the 
 highest terrain detail levels only under OpenGL.           One of the game's highly detailed cockpits. 
    

  Forgotten Battles' audio is almost as captivating as its visuals, though it also suffers from a 
 few faults: The menu theme music sounds more like a tinny circus tune than a patriotic theme, and 
 some of the voice-overs are unclear or exaggerated. Thankfully, Forgotten Battles' sound is great 
 where it counts. The guns sound weighty and fierce, and the engines sound varied and convincing. 
 It's a special treat when you first hop into an Me 262, for example -- the sound of the powerful 
 jet engines makes for a striking contrast to all the prop planes and lets you know you're in for 
 an exhilarating flight. Lots of little details help further immerse you in the experience. You'll 
 hear the wind rushing around your head when you sit in the open tail-gunner position of an IL-2, 
 and you'll hear the low thud of a ship's heavy AA guns off in the distance as you fly over the 
 sea.   

  If you were to think of IL-2 Sturmovik: Forgotten Battles strictly as a full-priced, full-fledged, 
 full-blown sequel, you might actually be a bit disappointed. The new game has some old problems 
 from the original, and some of the new features aren't quite up to snuff. If you consider Forgotten 
 Battles simply to be a new game in its own right, things look much better -- the game features exciting 
 combat, a wealth of fascinating aircraft, careful attention to detail, varied missions and maps, 
 outstanding visuals, and more. Forgotten Battles doesn't make the sort of huge impact that the 
 original game did, but, despite its faults, it's generally a very worthy successor.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Let's just cut right to the point - I never played a flight sim before! Before this game came along, 
 I never even tout about buying a joystick either. So yes, I'm a complete idiot when it comes to 
 flight sims, WW2 or modern... 
  
  But ever since I saw my friend playing the first IL-2 Sturmovik, I became interested in this game. 
 And finally, I was able to get my hands on IL-2 Sturmovik: Forgotten Battles, a 2003 edition of 
 the original game with some extra content. Altou it doesn't add much to the original formula, it's 
 still one hell of an impressive game. Why? Well, first of all (and I assure you, it's the key to 
 any flight sim's success) it's deep and complex enough for old-school flight veterans and accessible 
 and easy to learn for rookies. Either way, this game is simply tons and tons of fun...
  
  So let's start with the basic concept. The game takes place in the Eastern front of WW2, during 
 Hitler's campaign in Russia. I don't know why the programmers decided to take this concept to work 
 with, but it turned out great. Finally, a game that doesn't take you to Pacific, or Battle for 
 Britain, like thousands of flight sims before. It takes you to one unique and very much unexploited 
 trip to the Russian front. That's pretty new, and you gotta respect that. For the first time, you 
 have the chance to drive the Russian planes, instead of British or American. Russian and German, 
 to be precise. Hey, what's a WW2 flight sim without the good old Me-109? So, you can jump into 
 cockpit of a German workhorse, the famous Messerschmit (did I spell that right?!) and decimate 
 the Russian air force, or try to defend the motherland with your trusted IL-2 bomber or Yak and 
 Mig fighters. In Forgotten Battles you can even try out for a bomber crew in He-111 or TB-3. Whatever 
 you decide, there's tons of fun to be had with this game, and good joystick. That's right, forget 
 about gamepads and keyboard-mouse setup. Don't even try this game without a flight stick.
  
  For one, you can choose between pilot career, full mission, quick mission multiplayer, or even 
 a full mission builder where you can create your own missions, even alternate history such as pitting 
 Me-292 jet fighters against Luftwaffe in the Battle of Moscow. Personally, I enjoyed quick mission 
 for hours before I even touched the pilot career. This way, you can pit your tiny fighter against 
 mighty bombers loaded with gun turrets, go head to head against enemy fighters, or scare the enemies 
 half to death with your experimental jet fighters. I enjoyed taking on a bombers, since they're 
 huge and difficult to gun down, but not very fast. So I used that as training before I even tried 
 to take on an enemy fighters, a much faster and smaller targets. Great workout for the beginners. 
 And all of it was simply FUN!!!! 
  
  How come? Well, because you can adjust your difficulty any way you want. Sick of getting killed? 
 Turn the God mode on. Too difficult engine management? Turn it off. Drag? Stall? Realistic gunnery? 
 On and off, my friend. Everything can be turned off. You want an arcade game such as Crimson Skies? 
 Got it right here. Hard core sim? Here as well. You wanna experience take-off and landing? Be my 
 guest, you'll do that a lot in the campaign mode. Or you wanna build your career as a fighter, 
 but take-off and landing seems to difficult? With a simple press of a button you can turn the auto 
 pilot on, and enjoy the view until you reach your target. Or perhaps you don't wanna wait that 
 long. With yet another press of a button you can accelerate time until you reach your destination. 
 The entire game is extremely user-friendly. IT adjusts to you, instead of forcing YOU with a big, 
 fat, painful stick to adjust to it and learn all the tiny details of flight. Yes, you can be an 
 ace and do all that yourself, but if it's too difficult, you can simply ignore it. And that's what 
 makes this game extremely friendly and appealing.
  
  As for the planes, don't worry. You can try just about any plane that was available in the eastern 
 front. Even some experimental planes that never even saw action against Russians or Germans. And 
 they're all modeled so great it will make you cry tears of joy. From cockpit to paint job, they 
 look great, feel great and every plane has its strengths and weaknesses, just like in the real 
 world. My advice - choose one plane you like and drive the heck of it. My personal favorites are 
 Me-109 from 1941 series and Supermarine Spitfire (you can only get that one in an Ace expansion 
 pack, but hey... I never said I only have Forgotten Battles version) . Whilst Me-109 is a killing 
 machine, pure and simple, Spitfire was my love at first sight. "Like dancing with the most beautiful 
 girl in the ballroom", one pilot once said. And it's true. You will soon learn to appreciate those 
 special planes you get to fly throughout the game. As you learn their strengths and weaknesses, 
 you slowly become a killing machine yourself. I might even change my nick name into Bomber_Killer. 
 Anyway, let's just say that bomber crews (after about 40 hours of gameplay) simply bail out as 
 soon as they see me coming with my 109, hehehe... 
  
  Graphics? Sounds? Damage models? Needless to say, it's the best thing that happened to flight sims. 
 If you try to gun down a bomber with your machine guns, you won't even scratch it's paint. No matter 
 how many bullets you waste, there is no "combined damage" methode to gun it down. You'll need cannons. 
 If you fire at a column of tanks, they will simply keep moving. You will need rockets and cannons 
 to deal with those. Enemy fighters? Machine guns are the answer. The coolest thing about this game 
 is that you can view your enemies from up close and see the damage you've caused as they go down 
 in flames. Every bullet hole and busted engine can be viewed with so much detail it's incredible. 
 Same goes for you. Your weapons get jammed if damaged, your rudder controls, elevation, engine, 
 everything can be damaged. Even your pilot can get killed by a shrapnel or a stray round. Every 
 sound of engine, fire, damage, cannons, everything can be heard clearly, just like the real world. 
 It's simply amazing. 
  
  As for the bad side of the game, well, there isn't much to say. Loading times are a bit long, but 
 I haven't experienced any bugs so far. Depending on what add-on you install, you may experience 
 some problems, because some expansions don't really support each other, but it mostly worked just 
 fine. Nobody's perfect, after all...
  
  So what are you waiting for? Get to your local store and buy this game!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hetsar
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Please if you love war games buy this as its amazing 11/10! from me! Anyways the review its a very 
 good game and its very realistic infact more than flight sim! and sadly can have a few little in 
 game glitches sometimes. But dont let this put you down from buying it as you will love it. With 
 over 89 flyable planes from the speeady hurricane to the slow and big HE 111 theres loads but sadly 
 they did not put one of the most amazing planes ever in and that plane is the SPITFIRE!
  
  choose to play for Germany, Finland, Hungary or USSR as a fighter or a bomber pilot and embark on 
 dynamic  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diehardman06
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  this WW2 flight sim is fairly easy enough to get to grasps with. the buttons can be wierd getting 
 used to at first but with a little time and effort it becomes a brillient game, starting with the 
 aircraft they are all well designed and fun to fly. everything can be set to a realistic standard 
 on the options board but i prefer the unrealistic super killing spree style...
  the missions are set as real pilots in WW2 would have flown, thow it can get a little boaring flying 
 to a destination to fight; its well worth the weight... i think its a well balanced game with nothing 
 to lose, its reasonably old so reasonably cheap in the shops i recomend this game to any one with 
 a eye for flight sims and WW2... just making a quik mission with no enemys is extruadinerally fun 
 as well, just taking off and landing any where in a player made map or an already made map is great 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roffkaiser
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Il-2's successor hits the fan and the new player alike with all the right features. In the first 
 installment of the series the player was always left feeling, I wish I could fly that Stuka or 
 that He-111. And the developers delivered. Also the mission system was revamped to give the player 
 unlimited hours of fun with dynamic missions that are made by the computer and are not scripted. 
 Also you will sometimes meet enemy aces and rare airplanes from time to time.
  
  The Multiplayer is also a blast as you have everyone from little kids, to pilots in international 
 militaries (there have been articles about Russian pilots playing it to make up for low flight 
 times and simulator times) This gives you a realistic feeling of not knowing who in the world is 
 in that cockpit you are fighting against. Though with the world-wide arena of course comes lag, 
 which is manageable but it is sometimes hard to aim with it when you have very precision oriented 
 weapons, like 30mm cannons. The graphics on the planes is grade A, with the light effects, textures, 
 and models all behaving very well at all times. Pilots faces are also mapped on the character models 
 and you can download plane, and pilot skins from a large number of sites. I myself downloaded many 
 JU-87 skins for my campaigns against the red tide.
  
  The only gripe i have about this game is that you can't without modding get some of the better 
 bombers for the heavy bomber classes, such as the PE-8, or the JU-88
  
  All in all this game is very good and anyone interested in the Eastern Front or flying in general 
 should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wigster666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  il2 sturmovick is the best game i've got on Pc, once you've got the hang of the flying and shooting 
 its so much fun. You can change the difficulty to whatever you want so as you improve you can make 
 things a bit more challenging. The graphics detail when you crash or get shot is immense, there 
 are so many things that can be blown off or shot through that it is just so interesting to watch 
 things be destroyed. There are so many buttons to help you out and use such as the autopilot button 
 (A) or the eject button (Ctrl+E) . This game can keep you playing for hours upon end and i still 
 having completed the pilot career it just seems to go on forever. An instant classic and must have 
 for anyone with a good enough PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezapa
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  cant get into flight sims? try these out, any il2 game from ubi is a masterpeice, i mean ive played 
 many, none compare to this, the views seem endless, the terrain is so wide open, you can fly till 
 your out of gas, (i hate boundaries) leaving battle grounds is not what i like to hear and you 
 wont find that in these games. nor any time limit, i hate rushing to complete missions, here you 
 can fly away and get some distance between the enemies, turn and blast the canopy till its in flames, 
 what a sight :)
  theres so many options for any level of player, and enough planes to suit your needs for any kind 
 of battle. no arcade feel to any of them, this is one great series and top notch flight sim. if 
 you hate arcade sims then this is the pick of the litter. this series also supports i. r tracking 
 and voice buddy
  i have voice buddy and what a diff if you like to play in the dark... no more keystrokes just talk 
 and good ol voice buddy will lower throttle or combat flaps or any view you like, hmmmm kinda makes 
 it unfair to others without it
  but im sure many use it. i. r tracking is next on the list, cant go wrong with head movement to 
 keep an eye on that enemy, only thing is thats its pricey i saw them for $179.00 compared to voice 
 buddy at $49.00 and he will even look any direction you ask but a lil slower than ir tracking. 
 well cant go wrong with ubi and ic maddox games. have fun people, watch yur six : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  If you're an "old School" flight simmer then you've seen the progression of the genre slow to a 
 crawl in the past few years. Once a staple of the Computer Game industry, flight sims are now, 
 at best, a niche market. Save for Microsoft, none of the major game houses waste code in the area. 
 This all changed with the intoduction of 1C's "IL2 Sturmovik" in 2001. IL2 was/is a ground breaking 
 combat flight sim that finally gave simmers gorgeously rendered aicraft, detailed flight models, 
 working cockpits and amazing online and offline gameplay. As amazing as all the above was, the 
 most remarkable thing about IL2 was that it was set on the "Eastern" front of WWII, you know the 
 Russian Front... "The Great Patriotic War".
  
  For the first time flight simmers could pilot the stubby and dangerous I-16. You could finally 
 get your hands on Yaks, Migs and murderous IL2 Sturmovik tatical bomber. The bar and ante had been 
 raised and a hardcore and dedicated fan base has formed behind this ground breaking sim. "IL2 Forgotten 
 Battles" is the first full blown sequel to the groundbreaking original. New planes have been added, 
 new flight models introduced and whole new campaigns. Now in addition to flying as the either the 
 Russians wor the Germans, you can now fly with the Finns in the "Forgotten War" against Stalin, 
 or with the French Normandie Squadron against the Germans. Again this series entertains and educates 
 at the same time. 
  
  Installation:
  Installation was a breeze. There was a cycle of patches but these can be easily found on the Ubi. com's 
 website. 
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing, simply amazing. The game engine is starting to show it's age but, if you've high end rig 
 you can find yourself managing 45 to 50 FPS on even the highest settings with all the eye candy. 
 On some rigs the view is almost photographic, long as you're in the air. On the ground, things 
 aren't so great but it's hard to model the entire real world and 50 or 60 aircraft and not have 
 things ground to a halt. With this in mind ground detail is sacrificed for superior plane flight 
 models and exteriors. 
  
  Sound:
  As with the first game, sound in IL2-FB is marvelous. Engines sound different from plane to plane. 
 Wing mounted machine guns and cannon sound distinctly different from nose mounted guns. You can 
 hear the wint in your hair in an open cockpit jobby. Nothing quite like that sickening "thunk" 
 of hearing your rudder being shot away in your rear speakers. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is immersive, fun and downright addictive... when you're in the air. On the ground, again, 
 things ain't quite so hot. If you're looking for some stroy, or plotline etc like Microsofts Combat 
 Flight Simulator Series... then forget it. There is none. All you get is a missing briefing a chance 
 to outfit your plane and off you go. When you get back, you find out if you've succeeded and who 
 in your squadron "bought the farm" . No interaction, no ceremonies, no nuthin. just fly and fight. 
 And as far s I'm concerned that's alright by me. I didn't get this sim for pathos or romance, I 
 bought it cause it's the closet thing this side of a Holosuite to climbing in the cockpit of a 
 WWII fighter and doing battle. 
  
  This is not an easy game to master however. This is not "Crimson Skies" you're gonna need a decent 
 joystick and rudder pedals if you expect to survive in offline campaigns. I'd also recommend getting 
 a HOTAS hookup and TrackIR so that you can truly fly and fight with both your feet, both your hands 
 and your eyes too. For those however who just want to kill, in game settings can be set to "arcade" 
 so your bullets hit harder and your plane flies like an X-Wing 
  
  Online: 
  This game truly shines online as well. Hyperlobby and "All Seing Eye" provide easy places for folks 
 who want to fly against human beings a place to try their skills. Dogfight servers are all over 
 the place and it's strictly the wild wild east out there, shoot or be shot. You can also fly coop 
 missions there as well and there are active squadrons one can join if they've a desire. 
  
  Final Verdict:
  Without a doubt the best WWII Combat Flight sim in the world today. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
