-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: IL-2 Sturmovik
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/il2sturmovik/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 867 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: 1C
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Nov 18, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
IL-2 Sturmovik is destined to be a classic. This is one of those simulations that reminds you why 
 you love the genre. 

 IL-2 Sturmovik is destined to be a classic. This is one of those simulations that reminds you why 
 you love the genre. It has all the fidelity, immersion, playability, polish, and graphical splendor 
 that enriched classics like Red Baron, Aces over the Pacific, Falcon 3.0, and European Air War. 
 This is why we fly.           Volumetric clouds are one of the impressive visual effects in IL-2. 
    

  IL-2 is arguably the most beautiful flight sim to date. The volumetric clouds, the atmospheric 
 lighting, and the weather effects are the stuff of tech demos. What a delight to see them in a 
 fully realized game. Instead of using generic urban texture tiles, towns are modeled using hand-placed 
 3D objects (although they'll only appear at short range to keep the frame rate manageable) . To 
 create forests, IL-2 uses a clever trick with layered bitmaps that give the illusion of depth and 
 multiple trees -- it's a bold new effect that pays off much better than mere forest textures with 
 fake shadows along one edge. Water has a rippled translucent look, and surf even laps at the shore. 
 The aircraft models are superbly detailed, from chipped paint to moving control surfaces, down 
 to every flap and leading edge slat. Your pilot's head even turns to look at his target. This is 
 the sort of sim in which you can enjoy just watching the landing gear extend and retract.   

  When the shooting starts, the graphics really take off. IL-2 has a realistic tracer effect with 
 occasional illuminated rounds for machine guns. Larger-caliber cannons and rockets leave sharp 
 smoke trails, while dogfights at higher altitudes leave lazy twisting coils of contrails. Good-looking 
 explosions and fire are a dime a dozen in games these days, and IL-2 is no exception. With variable 
 zoom levels available, you can effectively stick your head up to the sights and fire at your target 
 as if you were shooting footage with a gun camera. You can record your missions to watch them after 
 the fact or to assemble them as cinematic replays from different perspectives. With graphics as 
 sharp as IL-2's, this latter feature is a deceptively addictive time sink.   

  IL-2 sounds as good as it looks. It features distinctive engine sounds, hearty gunfire, thudding 
 flak, and the Doppler zoom of a plane roaring past your canopy. The cockpit chatter is convincing 
 and heartfelt, partly because it's all spoken in German or Russian. You may not like having to 
 look up at the top of your screen to read the subtitles, but you'll eventually learn to distinguish 
 mission-specific information from flavor messages. You can even tune to the enemy frequency to 
 hear your victims' mayday calls. IL-2 also features some wonderfully subtle touches, like the sound 
 of bullets whistling by or ricocheting off your fuselage. The metallic creaking and thrumming of 
 these planes in motion is even more impressive. You can hear an impending stall as your plane's 
 frame goes from creaking to rattling. This important aural cue is far more intuitive than any gauge 
 or readout, and it works wonders for conveying the feel of flight in World War II-era aircraft. 
   

  Flight sim fans are notoriously fussy about realism, but IL-2 should give them little cause to 
 complain. It also scales down for beginners and more casual players. A realism panel will let you 
 toggle individual settings for the flight model, external views, situational awareness cheats, 
 weapon lethality, ammo loadouts, and so forth. This isn't an arcade game by any stretch of the 
 imagination, but if you just want to zoom around and blow things up with impunity, IL-2 will be 
 more than happy to accommodate you. If you who want to faithfully re-create the nuances of World 
 War II air combat, IL-2 will accommodate you. In fact, IL-2 seems downright eager in this regard. 
   

  The flight models are superlative, giving each plane a distinctive personality. From Russia's lumbering 
 IL-2 bombers to Germany's nimble Bf-109s, each plane has its own style and character. None of the 
 planes' responses feel canned or scripted. IL-2 is one of those rare games where you can almost 
 feel the physics under your fingertips. This is especially important when you're modeling aircraft 
 from a time before computers kept pilots from stalling or spinning their planes. It was up to the 
 pilot to push the envelope of his plane's performance, sensing how close he was to the wrong side 
 of the laws of physics. This sense for keeping a vehicle on the edge of control is one of the hardest 
 things to model in a computer game. IL-2 is probably the best attempt at doing this since Papyrus' 
 Grand Prix Legends.           Use the cockpit view only for full realism.    

  The damage model is another unapologetically realistic aspect of IL-2. You can sustain a variety 
 of different types of damage, none of which feels canned. You might even be surprised at touches 
 like cowlings that have been ripped back from your nose obstructing your view through the canopy. 
 The damage model for your own weapons is also unflinchingly realistic. Strafe a column of tanks 
 with your machine guns, and they'll just carry on as if you were flinging spitballs -- armored vehicles 
 need to be attacked with cannons, rockets, or bombs. IL-2 doesn't just use a model of cumulative 
 damage chipping away at a vehicle's hit points. Armor penetration and hit location figure prominently. 
 Unload your machine guns into the rear of a bomber and you're liable to just chew up his tail while 
 he goes about his business of dropping bombs on your airfield. It can be difficult to bring down 
 a plane with smaller-caliber fire when you're shooting it from behind. To get the most out of your 
 ammo, you'll want to aim at engines on wings or risk high-deflection nose shots in an attempt to 
 hit a fighter's engine. When you finally shoot something down, it feels like real accomplishment. 
 Of course, if this level of realism is frustrating, you can turn it off with the flip of a toggle. 
   

  The realism tweaks also extend to issues of what it's like to be strapped into a restrictive cockpit 
 with no way to see behind you. You can choose to switch off external, padlock, and full-screen 
 views, as well as the text labels that designate every aircraft by distance and nationality. Without 
 these visual aids, IL-2 is at its immersive best. You're constantly unsure of what's behind you. 
 If you chase a plane into a cloud, you won't know what the situation will be when you come out 
 on the other side. Following a twisting, turning, weaving opponent is a gratifying challenge of 
 the highest order. But if this isn't your bag, there's a great full frontal view with bright gauge 
 overlays that makes IL-2 almost as accessible as Microsoft's Crimson Skies. One disappointing lack 
 of realism in IL-2 is the developers' choice not to include swastikas on the German planes. While 
 the sentiment is understandable, this sort of reluctance to model history only calls attention 
 to itself and ends up being counterproductive.    

 A potential obstacle for IL-2's commercial success (as if being a flight sim not called "Microsoft 
 Flight Simulator" weren't enough of an obstacle) is that it's set in a lesser-known corner of World 
 War II. IL-2 takes place during the battle between Germany and the Soviet Union. You don't hear 
 a lot about the air war over the eastern front, particularly since so much blood was spilled in 
 the mud and snow. Since Germany decimated the Soviet air force, it wasn't much of an air war until 
 the Soviets were driving them back to Berlin. This wasn't the dramatic back-and-forth struggle 
 like Spitfires and Messerschmitts over the English Channel, P-51s and B-17s by the hundreds over 
 Europe, or the pitched carrier battles in the South Pacific. Also, this air war isn't as "sexy" 
 to the US market since there are no Americans involved (although there is a guest appearance by 
 American P-39s sent to Russia under FDR's Lend-Lease Program) .           A detailed damage model 
 means you have to watch where you shoot.    

  But this is all the more reason to applaud Maddox Software for taking a chance by offering something 
 new and different. Forgotten chapters of history like this are rich untapped territory. Even experienced 
 flight sim fans will find they're not in Kansas anymore. There are some familiar German planes, 
 namely the aforementioned Bf-109 and the fearsome Focke-Wulf FW-190. But the Soviet aircraft are 
 like a cast of new characters. You'll meet MiGs, Yaks, and LaGGs in addition to the workhorse IL-2 
 bombers, each with its own charm and personality. Although the manual boasts 31 flyable aircraft, 
 most of these are variants of about a dozen different aircraft.   

  The game's successful emphasis on ground-attack missions is another of its notable features. This 
 isn't just a dogfighting sim. Although IL-2 doesn't support target-rich environments along the 
 lines of Falcon 4.0, it gives you enough variety and detail that the ground-attack missions don't 
 feel like a B-side feature. In addition to blowing up the usual suspects (airfields, armored columns, 
 and bridges) , there are moving trains and even torpedo runs on ships. You can tinker with the convergence 
 distance for your weapons to tweak your strafing or configure delays on bombs and rockets for low-altitude, 
 close-in attacks. IL-2 even supports skip bombing, a maneuver that actually skips ordnance across 
 the top of the water into the side of its target. One helpful aid for ground attacks is the option 
 to run the game at half- or quarter-speed. This lets you line up your targets carefully and, more 
 importantly, makes it easier to figure out when you need to pull up from a steep dive.   

  One of IL-2's disappointing oversights mirrors one of Hitler's oversights: there's a notable absence 
 of German bombers. Just as the Luftwaffe was short on bomber aircraft, the only flyable German 
 planes in IL-2 are fighters. It's a mystery why Maddox didn't include the notorious Ju-87 Stuka, 
 the most renowned ground-attack craft on the eastern front. As it is, if you want to focus on ground-attack 
 missions, you'll be flying for the Russian motherland.   

  Although IL-2 is a superlative simulator, it's sitting in a rather bland case. The shell screens 
 are a series of pushbutton panels with minimal information and a jaunty little  Hogan's Heroes 
  war tune in the background. The mission briefings give only scant information about what you're 
 supposed to do. Even worse are the mission debriefings, which only show your accumulated score 
 and kills for the entire campaign. There is no information about how the planes on your side performed, 
 what planes you shot down, how accurate your gunnery skills are, or whether you were damaged. Given 
 this, it's hardly surprising that IL-2 ships with a wretched manual. Curious about how the planes 
 stack up against each other? Wondering what those dials in the cockpit mean? Want to get some insight 
 into the campaigns and career mode? Would you like to learn how to use those controls for elevator 
 trim, prop pitch, and armor flaps? Don't bother consulting the manual, because none of this is 
 in there. There is a series of ponderous tutorials that run about 10 minutes too long and leave 
 plenty of unanswered questions. So much for being accessible to new players.           Destroy 
 planes on the ground and in the air.    

  Then there are the single-player campaigns, which are the worst offenders when it comes to not 
 giving this sim what it deserves. There are three campaigns, each consisting of canned missions 
 with sometimes demanding and unclear objectives that have to be met before you can move on. Unfortunately, 
 you may not know whether you've met your objective until after you end the mission, at which point 
 there's zero feedback on why you did or didn't succeed. Many of these missions will have to be 
 replayed multiple times before you beat them. This sort of annoying structure has destroyed other 
 sims, but IL-2 has enough flexibility to make up for it. For starters, there are 20 single missions 
 to let you flex some of the different aircraft. Then there's a quick mission builder that lets 
 you dial in preferences for anything from one-on-one tests to ground-attack practice to massive 
 dogfights. There's also a beefy and easy-to-use full mission builder, in which you can load any 
 of the campaign missions and fly them instead of having to slog through them in order. Finally, 
 there's full multiplayer support for dogfights and cooperative play in specially created missions. 
   

  But best of all, there's a fan base that's already fleshing out this sim. For starters, you can 
 download  IL2Gen , Vadim Kolosov's handy random campaign generator. This little utility single-handedly 
 rescues IL-2 from its restrictive campaigns. To get a sense for how far IL-2 might go, consider 
 what's been done with Microprose's European Air War or Falcon 4.0, games that have been so heavily 
 modified since their release that they're nearly unrecognizable. IL-2 looks like it'll inspire 
 just as much third-party development from its devoted and industrious fan base. Try to tell these 
 people flight sims are dead. They may be rare, but this is a genre that isn't going to go away 
 anytime soon. With titles like Rowan's Battle of Britain, Razorworks' Comanche vs. Hokum, and now 
 Maddox's IL-2, flight sims are reaching incredible new levels. And the good ones are more precious -- in 
 both senses of the word -- than ever.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mooch35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:58 am PT
Review:  First, I'll just start off as to why I put "hard" for the difficulty. No doubt, this game takes 
 a lot, and I mean A LOT of time, patience and ofcourse with that comes practice. Most flight games, 
 you can bomb a ship and not think twice about it. In this, it is the most fulfilling thing to bomb 
 a ship. You don't get 10 bombs on a plane that looks to only carry 1 bomb. That may be all you 
 get and you better make it count. As for the air combat, it's a hoot. Same goes for shooting down 
 a plane. It takes a lot of practice in shooting one down, but once you start getting it down, it 
 becomes increasingly fun, especially when your playing with friends. As I mentioned this is probably 
 one of the best combat sims at the moment, simply because nothing else comes close to IL-2. A lot 
 of games now claim to be "simulators" but they are merely an arcade style of flying. You can pull 
 as many G's as you want in any direction and never have to worry about stalling or engine failure. 
 If this is the first time, you've heard of the game or have just never tried it before, you should 
 purchase the "1946" package that has 6 games all in one. It's a good deal and trust me, it's well 
 worth it. If you have any questions you want to ask me about it, please feel free to do so. My 
 email is mooch37@hotmail. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  It is a nice game for those ww2 in europe fans among us. It has a nice variety of planes to fly. 
 In fact it is where I fell in love with the Heinkel He-162 Salamander. Too bad it isn't one ofthe 
 flyable planes. But back to the point. If you are really into the Russian side of the war than 
 this is the game for you. If you would prefer the German side than... choose something else. If 
 you would like to have a balance than go for something with a few more German planes, perhaps a 
 different IL2. If you are big on graphics quality you might want to consider something else. The 
 graphics could have been done in a month by a pretty good programer. I haven't found any bugs. 
 The game also recreates the difficulty of proppeler to jet combat. Note: The game does not feature 
 any flyable jet aircraft. Small flaws aside it is a nice game for the underepresented war between 
 Russia and the Germans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  IL-2 Sturmovik is here  and it delivers the goods as promised. This is quite simply the best World 
 War II flight sim this pilot has experienced in years, and its an instant classic for the genre.
 
  
  The action is set in WWIIs Eastern Front, which saw the Germans and Russians face off in some 
 of historys largest, bloodiest air battles. You get a total of 31 aircraft to fly, but the IL-2 
 Sturmovik is the featured attraction. An ugly brute of a plane, the IL-2s specialty was providing 
 devastating ground support while being able to take an astounding level of punishment.
  
  The rear gunner stations in later variants of the IL-2 are modeled, so you can play as either pilot 
 or gunner (or both) in the campaigns  or do so in online play, which makes for some dynamite multiplayer 
 co-op. Other birds include several variants of the German 109 and 190, and the Russian MiG and 
 Yak fighters.
  
  Each aircraft model is a sight to behold, with a nearly unparalleled level of detail. Every control 
 surface that should move does, right down to the rudder pedals in the fully 3D cockpits, and the 
 flight models are superb, aptly and authentically re-creating the feel of flight for each plane. 
 The sim even goes the extra mile and models each aircrafts trim controls as well; youll want 
 to master them to get the most performance out of your ride.
  
  Merely keeping some of these planes from crashing  let alone shooting down the enemy  is a real 
 feat at the highest difficulty settings. The difficulty level is fully customizable, however, so 
 newbies shouldnt be in over their heads. (The manual and tutorials are among the worst Ive seen 
 packaged with a complex flight sim, though.)
  
  You can play a campaign as either a German or Russian fighter pilot, or as a Russian bomber (IL-2) 
 pilot. In each campaign, you tackle a series of scripted missions that span the course of the war. 
 Unfortunately, youll get far too little information about vital mission objectives before you 
 take off, and virtually zero info about why you succeeded or failed. On the flip side, you do get 
 20 additional single missions, a quick-mission creator, a full-featured mission editor, and robust 
 online options.
  
  The enemy AI, and that of your wingmen, may be the finest in the genre. Shooting down an enemy 
 plane is an accomplishment, as is successfully evading one thats latched onto your tail. (Id 
 swear I ran into Erich Hartmann, historys leading ace with more than 350 kills  most against 
 the Russians  on one occasion!)
  
  Most of the action takes place at low altitudes, and IL-2s forests convey a sense of true speed. 
 Flak bursts from rolling trains and emplaced anti-aircraft batteries will track your aircraft, 
 exploding in realistic puffs that spray shrapnel in all directions. The volumetric clouds are incredible 
 (and barely diminish performance at all) , as are the rain, lightning, and snowstorms youll encounter.
 
  
  If a 20mm shell puts a hole in your wing, itll create more drag and your plane will tend to roll 
 in that direction. Enemy fire will often loosen the cowling on the nose of your plane, which will 
 obstruct your view from the cockpit. Cannon fire leaves tell-tale traces of smoke, and fighters 
 leave twisting contrails during the rare high-altitude dogfights.
  
  If youre at all interested in WWII flight sims, go out and buy IL-2 today. Trust me  youll be 
 blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurisilion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, when I first played this game, I was kind of overwhelmed. Propeller pitch? Fuel 
 mix?? What are they??? .
  
  Fortunately, these features can be automated by adjusting the difficulty levels, which I believe 
 is ultimately responsible for the wide appeal of the game. Yes, if you're that way inclined you 
 can make everything as realistic as possible and spend 15 minutes spiralling upwards to gain altitude 
 before making a kill, or, you can set a few more options to make things easier, and shoot down 
 the entire Luftwaffe in a single evening.
  
  The game as a whole isn't really user friendly, the ultra complicated controls aside, the training 
 is rather poor consisting of boring recordings with subtitles. However, I believe that if you can 
 look past these short term shortcomings, you're in for a treat.
  
  The level of difficulty, even on easier settings makes each kill feel like a real accomplishment. 
 Through all the chase, manoeuvring, positioning and finally achieving that split second of accurate 
 fire feels so rewarding. There's nothing (in the videogame world) quite like taking out a FW-190 
 and emerging the other side of its debris.
  
  To be honest, I feel like I have to make excuses for this game with regards to the presentation 
 of its menus and the uber realism, but I shouldn't because when you get right down to it, IL-2 
 Sturmovik is a wonderfully satisfying game to play. After all, is it so wrong that it forces you 
 to really earn those kills? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reyes9arsenal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  This is THE WW2 flight sim that should be an essential purchase for any fan of the genre. I dont 
 care how bland the menus are, or how pointless the mission briefings and the game manual, when 
 i start the engine of one of the planes and enter a aerial dogfight, shooting down plane after 
 plane, there is nothing that can beat that thrill. For those who have criticised the game recently, 
 remember that the game is from 2001, and think about the standards of the game industry back then. 
 Il-2 Sturmovik was in a class of its own for graphical prowess and gameplay , and i think remains 
 the best ww2 flight simulator out on the market. And to think you can buy the game for only $10 
 from EB, here in Aus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Great WW2 air combat sim, looks great, models damage really well. You might say a perfect simulation.
 
  
  Unfortunately its strength is also its weakness... Where's the fun? Its a grand sim but its darn 
 hard, took me hours just to learn to take off and land and believe me in this game thats a real 
 challenge, never mind what awaits you when you do get airborne.
  
  If the flak doesn't get you then enemy fighters almost certainly will, even if you somehow survive 
 the mission you've then got to get back to your strip and you'll be darn lucky to survive the return 
 journey and landing if you've taken any fire (which is pretty much certain) , your landing gear 
 is probably shot out, holes in the fuel tank, hole in the wings reducing lift, engine grinding 
 metal, oil over your windshield etc. then you not only have to find your strip but land on it without 
 blowing up!! and the cherry is that on your approach you can't even see the runway from the cockpit!! 
 - I don't know how any of the pilots in WW2 lasted 5 minutes.
  
  Don't even think about getting this game without a decent joystick, preferably dual, and be prepared 
 to to spend many many hours geting to grips with flying your plane, then many more with combat 
 and the campaign missions.. a real chore. If you're a retro aircraft nut you'll love it... otherwise... 
 blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hankmcduggal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  It was too complicatedly realistic to be enjoyable. Missions don't provide clear set of objectives 
 nor are there any indicators where exactly to go during a mission. I personally would of liked 
 some in depth radio chatter at least. But I guess it would be hard to do with no actual focused 
 story line with no characters or a mood or theme to the game. Without those qualities It made it 
 difficult for me to find any motivation to play it. It may have it's depth with the realism, but 
 there is just no essence to it all. I was quite disappointed, I thought it contained much potential 
 for a intense air combat game, and wound up struggling just to get off the runway. Personally I 
 think there is a fine line, were too realistic diminishes the meaning of a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HAC-Oscuro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Your heart pounds as you struggle to maintain formation with the other bombers as German fighters 
 take aim on your engines, you really, really want to break formation and escape, but you also know 
 that if you do, it means failure for this mission. You must destroy the objective.
  
  The German planes open fire. Sturmovik red 2 is hit, and you manouever your own craft just in time 
 to avoid a piece of shrapnel flying from the enginge cowl. Luckily, your friend manages to bail 
 out as his wings plummet, flaming to the ground. Next, you yourself are under fire, so you go into 
 a battle turn and your gunner manages to score a hit on the Messerschmidt above you. You release 
 your bombs just as the enemy comes round for another pass, and you open up with your MGs and cannons...
 
  
  Atmospheric, isn't it? The sound of wind rushing past your cockpit as your struggle with your controls 
 in a storm over Smolensk.
  
  Stunning, isn't it? The view from 7000 feet at dawn over Moscow.
  
  Amazing, isn't it? That 
 all this is just a computer game. Half an hour to pick up and learn, almost a lifetime to master. 
 With realism that will transport you back to the second world war, IL-2 is truly a gaming masterpiece. 
 When was the last time, for example, a flight sim (although this virtually transcends that genre 
 into something else) allowed you to mercilessly gun down the German paratroopers in their slow 
 descent to a Russian city? The radio, too, is a source of amusement all of its own, using authentic 
 Russian and German language recordings (with subtitles, of course) to transmit your orders. The 
 accuracy of the landscapes is stunning, as well, with towns placed just the right distance away 
 from glistening rivers and dark forests.
  
  As you may have guessed, I am a major aficionado of this game.
  
  All things, however, have 
 disadvantages. The choice and accuracy of aircraft cannot be faulted, but with only three pre-loaded 
 maps and a very difficult to use custom content editor, the replay value lies entirely in modifying 
 tactics and aircraft choices. The campaign is just the right length, but perhaps a little too demanding 
 at times (for me, anyway :P) .
  
  Over all, though, this is a diamond in the rough, a real gem of a game which is often sadly overlooked 
 when people are just starting out in flight sims. Very good for beginners and fighter aces alike, 
 with excellent realism and immersive gameplay. Truly, at the top of the flight sim ladder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VikingFighter
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The game has its flaws yes, what sim game doesnt ?, right. So all the bugs are fixable, and the 
 game is just simply amazing. You discover your plane that one you fly best with, u select the weapons 
 you want you plane to carry into battle, u can even select if you want stall, or not. anything 
 in the game like physics you can change over an easy-to-us menu. All planes have different tweaks, 
 yes it is a little hard to learn but once you got you will have dog fights to such an extend that 
 you will be able to plan moves, use clouds as cover or even the sun. NOTE THAT YOU CANT JUST FLY 
 AROUND AND KILL STUFF YOU NEED TACTICS !!!!! THERE IS NO WAY YOU CAN SUCCEDED IN THIS GAME IF YOU 
 ARE UNFAMILIAR WITH AIR TO AIR WAREFARE !!! .. but that can all be learned rather quickly.. i sugest 
 u watch some war movies.. Fly Boys... for instance you see a hammerhead turn and other need manuvers 
 to out smart your opponent...... trust me when i say that you might just end up thinking of manovers 
 rather then homework 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello465
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game may be old but it is fun and revolutionery for its time it is cool and violent. The flights 
 are good and spectacular obviouisly not as good as there latest flying games but it is the best 
 for its time I I finished it fast but it was good while I was playing it. The graphics was awsome 
 and the damage was good the sound was also brilliantr and good to see unlike in many other games 
 of this age when you smash into a wall at 100 knots and theres no damage at all. but in this its 
 good to see escially in a flying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floyd7132
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting to try this game for a while now hoping this would be THE combat sim, but was 
 instead greatly disappointed.
  
  Cons:
  
  Game Interface:
  One of the first things that ended up turning me off was the game menu interface. With any game 
 you expect the game menu to be somewhat engaging with at least some eye candy, however, the interface 
 is extremely simplistic and dated, almost as if it belongs to an old Windows 95 or DOS game. There 
 are no descriptions or pictures of the planes throughout the menu which is disappointing. The missions 
 do have briefings which will give a basic overview of what needs to be done, however when selecting 
 a mission you are just given cryptic text such as "IL-2 N1" "IL-2 N2" and you need to click "Next" 
 before seeing what the mission is about.
  
  Tutorials:
  The tutorials in the game are set up where you watch someone fly a plane and sort of take notes 
 (no interactivity) . And unfortunately there is no voice-over to this which means you will have 
 to be reading through tons of small snippets of text instead of watching the plane. OK well maybe 
 that isn't too bad I thought, except when it came to the fact that you cannot speed up or skip 
 through some of the things you already know from reading the control menu, which means you will 
 need to sit through all of the very long and "drawn out" tutorials just to make sure there isn't 
 anything that you missed.
  
  Cutscenes:
  There is a rather odd thing that happens quite a lot throughout the various sequences in the game 
 in which your plane will be damaged or even explode where it obviously should not. This happens 
 even in one of the tutorials where for example they show you how to taxi to a runway and take off, 
 however somehow in the tutorial the trainer's plane ends up clipping a parked plane's wing thus 
 causing both wings on both planes to be pretty much ripped off. As the tutorial continues the plane 
 still manages to take off and fly normally. Another case of this happening is during one of the 
 sepia-toned sequences where you are on a runway in a glider being pulled by another plane, suddenly 
 another plane crashes into you from behind destroys your plane. A couple of seconds later your 
 plane is back wihtout a scratch on it. While not a bad thing, it kinda spoils the effect of the 
 game.
  
  Music/Sound:
  The music for the game is an annoying "polka" type music, which gets old quickly. The sound is 
 good for the most part however there do seem to be some glitches from time to time where a sound 
 will partially play and then cut out.
  
  Joystick Controls:
  The support for throttle control sliders is missing from the game which means you will need to 
 either use alternate buttons on the joystick or use the keyboard.
  
  Camera Control:
  External chase camera control could be better.
  
  Missions:
  The missions are not very extremely 
 diverse nor exciting and there is very little written about your objectives during the briefing.
 
  
  Planes:
  Was hoping for a little more variety but it turns out there are only german and russian planes 
 included in this game.
  
  Pros:
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay can be seemingly very realistic which can be good or bad depending on your patience. 
 Stalls and spins in which there is no escape from are common if you tilt your wing at too steep 
 of an angle.
  
  Cockpit Graphics:
  This is hands down the best feature in the game, the cockpits are realistic and very nicely done 
 in 3D with fully working gauges.
  
  All in all an average and somewhat disappointing "overly hyped" game certainly not worth a 9.2. 
 I was hoping this would be better than MS Combat Flight Sim but its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the eastern front. Here you will fight day or night, winter and summer, to defeat the 
 Nazis (or the Russians) .
  This simulator is very enjoyable, but it could have been better.
  Graphics are great for the time it was published : The planes and airfields are detailed great, 
 and cities look realistic from above (a little small and homogenic, but still) .
  The sound is ok, the music is a little too repetitive.
  
  The campaign is built like this : 
 you choose if you want to be a dog-fighter or a bomber and you continue with this path, but even 
 if you choose one of them, you still have a few missions where you need to do the other job (bombing 
 mission in the dog fight path, for example) .
  
  Since i'm a critic, i'll write first on what should have been done better: The bugs which annoyed 
 me the most where:
  1. First and foremost - the mission taping. This could really be great - you record your flight 
 and get to watch it.
  But - you don't have any video editor.
  In the 2 times i tried the recorder, it took out the planes I was after, so i saw myself shooting 
 in the air... and it also showed my plane crashing and surfing the ground, which of course didn't 
 happen.
  2. Sometimes in the end of a mission , i got 2 messages - one of them said the mission was successful, 
 the other indicated that i failed the mission...
  3. The panels between missions are lame and minimalistic.
  4. It is almost impossible to read 
 the flight gauges.
  5. The tutorial is basically OK, but lacks regards to some key functions and demonstrations.
 
  6. You don't get to choose the planes you fly with, or what missions to take, which means the 
 campaign as a whole is very linear.
  
  I must attest that both enemy AI and your teammates are pretty good, even in the "Easy" setting.
 
  The good stuff is here in abundance - 1. You have a variety of planes to fly in and attack at.
 
  2. You as you advance with the missions, you get to command other planes by radioing directives.
 
  3. The game mechanism is great, so both bombing and fighting are so much fun. When you take a 
 bomber, you can use both as a tail-gunner and as the pilot.
  4. Time compression saves you a lot of time flying long distances that don't require militaristic 
 attention.
  5. On the other hand, even though it is not real, you can slow down time, so you can aim better 
 at both air or ground targets.
  6. Mission editor.
  7. You get to fight in various weather and visibility conditions, which are very believable (When 
 fighting in a storm, the lightnings blind you or make you think you were shot)
  
  The game is not easy , even in the "Easy" setting. Taking off, a simple mission in other flight 
 sims, requires a lot of attention (for example - you must be in the center of the runway, and not 
 even a tad askew) , or else you crash on the runway.
  The campaigns are very long and will take 15-20 hours to complete each.
  
  I know this game 
 is old now (as old as my computer...) , but if you can lay your hands on it - do it !
  
  Favourite music to listen to while playing this :
  Shot down in flames - ACDC
  Tailgunner - 
 Iron Maiden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggbox99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  i really like this game because i really love world war 2 i also really like fliying. i would recammend 
 the germans coz thay have better plans otho you can be rushans in german plans. when you fist play 
 the game it will be qwit hard to get planes at fist. if you whant eny help e-mail  
 i would love to here from you if you have not got this game i would recamend it a lot if you like 
 flying. so if you like it buy it thats my moto. so just get it and wait for it to install because 
 it is really woth the wait. the game is a true classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not into flight sims much, but I thought Sturmovik was pretty decent. I liked how you can create 
 your own missions and try all the settings for weapons and other airplanes. The graphics were pretty 
 good, not great, but they really don't need to get any better in this genre. I loved how the planes 
 blow up and rip apart in the places you shoot. Very realistic.
  The only let down is that flying with the keyboard is pretty hard, or at least trying to shoot 
 someone down is. Unless they are flying completly straight you'll really have a hard time shooting 
 enemy planes down. I wish the game offered more customizable control settings, like maybe using 
 the mouse to fly like in BF1942. You won't have a problem if you own a joystick or something similar 
 though. 
  Another let down is actually the sound and voiceovers, it's pretty annoying to hear your wingmen 
 yell at you over the radio just because you don't fly how you are supposed to every two seconds. 
 Plus i dont understand this big hype about having russian or german talk over the radio, wouldn't 
 it be better to listen to someone speak in english but maybe have somewhat of an accent like in 
 every other game? And not be so freakin ripetitive? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezapa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  i was never so involved in a game as i have been with this one. its a must have for any flight 
 simmer. i own the series up to pacific fighters, and i still play this one durring the week ip 
 to ip with my friends. ive tried many flight sims, but none compare to this one, theres no arcade 
 feel to it at all, the graphics are still up to par with most of todays games in my opinion.
  theres so many expansion packs for this series that are hard to come across, but im sure you can 
 order them from ic maddox website.
  one great feature is that it supports ir tracking, where you move your head to look around, im 
 going to have to find one of them, since the battles can get so intense, it would make things alot 
 easier to get on someones 6 and
  evade some of my ace pilot friends.
  theres alot of settings for begginers and hard settings for advanced players
  not to mention 
 mission builders for online or solo.
  Its a must have game that will keep you craving for more hours in a day so you can play and master 
 the skies and keep up with some of them online aces. Have fun and always watch your altidute and 
 speed. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  I was amazed when I first started playing this game at the attention to detail and the sheer scope 
 of what the developers have managed to cram into the game.
  
  Set in the 'olden days' you won't find any modern planes in this game, it is set entirely in the 
 WW1 / WW2 and post WW2 era but don't let that put you off, there is so much that this game has 
 to offer.
  
  This game was the reason that I bought a Saitek X52 throttle and stick and a TrackIR system, just 
 to be able to get that extra edge when playing against friends.
  
  And that is the best bit about this game, the online play. You can get together with your friends 
 and fly either with them or against them over the internet or LAN.
  
  This is the best part of the game, some of the dog fights you get into are just so intense and 
 frustrating and rewarding that you can't help but wanting to keep playing.
  
  So if you are looking for a flight sim game that not only looks great but is authentic and realistic 
 and also good fun to play then this may be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  If you are fond of simulators and especially the airforce ones then you MUST play it!!!!!!!
  This game is the perfect way of showing of the reakism of the real battle fly!
  Each time when 
 you are starting it you are feeling yourself, like you are in the place of the pilot and trying 
 to shoot all of the enemies down!!
  You can view the plane from pilot eyes or from the third person, turn the realistic mode for weapon 
 and fule and many other!!!!
  All I can say that i am not a fan of aviasims but this game is one of my favorite!!!
  Play it, 
 you won't be dissapointed!!
  Tahir"Yazon"Tillyaev . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigelf72
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of dog-fights then this is the game for you. Featuring almost every single plane 
 every used in WWII this game will rox ur sox. Also features better graphics than any other flight 
 sim out there excluding microsfot flight sim 2004, but that game sucked... what a snooze. This game 
 needs a crowd.... cause it desperatly deserves it. Buy a quality joystick, and prepare to turn other 
 planes into swiss cheese. The replayability is endless.... setting up situations is a blast. 20000 
 feet, bombing mission, heavily defended, real-time dynamic physics, Night time, cloudy, thunder/ 
 lightning, AA guns blasting everywhere......32 planes shooting eachother down, tracer rounds penetrating 
 the skys, fireballs bursting and soaring to the ground and parachutes falling all around, and your 
 cockpit flashes brilliantly in real time. I can go on and on and on about how spectacular this 
 game is. But i would much rather you play it. Now go..... get it.... NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shpa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the few flight sims ive ever played, but man! take a look at these graphics. and 
 take a look at flight sim graphics in 2001, its incredible!
  even the flight sims today dont match this, the ground is always blurry in the other flight sims.
 
  
  I have all the iL-2 games except pacific fighters, i baught pacific fighters but didnt work, : ( 
 so i returned it. the only thing that really makes me angry is that you cant download other planes 
 online, I must say I love the p-51's and the spitfire, The bombers they added are cool, only thing 
 is that its impossible to get an accurate shot even when using the bombsite thing,.. I Watched 
 the bombsight trainings buncha times, but never got the hang of it, *sigh. oh well..
  
  I just like to screw around in this game, like i would do a quick battle and make the target an 
 airfield, and just land my bomber on enemy airfield. then try to take off again, but usualy my 
 engines get shot..
  
  Only odd thing is that most of the x-treme gamers today that play fps's think they know everything 
 about all the video games there are, but then when you ask em, hey have u heard of that game il-s 
 sturmovik they go,, huh?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldood232001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coberkain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first started into it i was somewhat deflated, it stated on the casing and with photographs 
 there were American planes, I found this was incorrect, I felt cheated but the more i played the 
 more this became insignificant.........
  I got frustrated with aircraft stalling but then I found out why... I very seldom lose a dogfight 
 now.
  
  IL-2 Sturmovik has been well thought through and is a master creation by those involved.
  
 
  I own other flight sims but I play my Sturmovik the most. 
  
  I have Airwar over Europe, which I felt was never to be beaten in design & sound affects. Sorry 
 AOE in my collection you're grounded for the moment.
  
  I wish the other IL-2 sims were available in my country right now, however I guess in time they 
 will be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma21212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  not only you can fly ....... alot of planes you acually get to sit in side look around ,if shot 
 in the right place you can see bullets holes in your cocpit ,your gas tank can blow your engin 
 can stop etc. yor opponent can go down more than a 100 ways one thing i didnt like is that the 
 plane selection is not enough sure their are about 50 planes to fly but i wanna fly JU-87's and 
 ME 262's.. but who cares this game is one of the best if not the gratest flying games i ever played 
 ..... i cant beleve they stoped making these games .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game is the wrost flying game I have ever played in my life.
  
  Gameplay: Awful gameplay. The controls are awful, You don't know where to go and there are a little 
 collection of weapons for you to choose from.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are awful aswell. The planes look bad, the takeoff area looks bad and the 
 sky is awful.
  
  Sound: There is no sound in this game so I don't have nothing to say.
  
  Value: you can play for 30 seconds and then you get tired from this game.
  
  Reviewer's 
 tilt: Overall this game sucks and you should not EVER buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  IL-2 Sturmovik is the best WWII flight sim made to date. It blows away the competition in every 
 field. It has more planes to fly, better graphics, better loadouts, better sound and better design 
 overall than any other WWII flight sims I've played or ever read about. 
  
  The main focus of this game is the Eastern front in Russia during WWII which concerns the Germans 
 and the Russians mostly but there are the Fins and some others as well. In particular the game 
 is named after the famous Russian WWII ground attack plane called the IL-2 Sturmovik. This aircraft 
 was very important to the Russians in WWII due to its wide range of armaments, heavy armour and 
 its great close air support ability. This plane is what the game is named after but its by no means 
 the only plane you can fly. You can fly Fighters, interceptors and other ground attack aircraft 
 from several nations. You can also start a campaign as a fighter pilot or a ground attack pilot 
 at several different time periods during the war at a starting rank of our choice. You can then 
 progress through the war do all the things that go with this.
  
  This game is just great overall to anyone wanting to try flying WWII aircraft. I would definately 
 recommend the game. I would also recommend you get all the expansions for the game and apply all 
 patches as they add alot of great material, including many, many more planes to fly including bombers 
 and more maps and theatres of operation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing IL2 Sturmovik in one incarnation or anothr since the Beta came out in 2000/2001. 
 This game singlehandedly saved the flight sim genre from disappearing off the face of the earth. 
 While it's true that Microsoft continues to put out it's Civilian flight sim and three versions 
 of it's Combat Flight Simulator one need only load one of those and try IL2 so see that no comparison 
 is warranted. The ILD Sturmovik line is simply the most immersive and complete combat flight simulator 
 ever made. And in addition to all this fun you learn something as well. You learn that the air 
 war over Europe didn't begin and end with the Brits in the Battle of Britain or with the 8th Air 
 Force over Germany. No, the Russians had planes and pilots too and towards the end of the war, 
 they had crates equal or better than the Luftwaffe. 
  
  Installation:
  While its possible to have a problem with some versions of Windows, I've never met a person who 
 couldn't get it started after a fashion. My installation was a snap and it's still running after 
 numerous updates to Windows XP.
  
  Graphics: 
  Stunning absolutly stunning. With a powerful enough rig you almost approach photographic quality 
 with your screenshots. There are numerous levels of detail and resolution so even the slowest rig 
 can run this game. What will strike you at first is how lovingly rendered each and every cockpit 
 is. And the guages and dials WORK. When you throw the joystick to the right, the stick goes to 
 the right. The trim bubble and artificial horizon all work in every flyable plane. Amazing, just 
 amazing. And when you take an outside look you see airplane skins that bear the correct squadron 
 markings and emblems. The only thing missing are the Swastikas (for legal reasons) and score markings 
 on the side of your crate. 
  
  Sound:
  Good if not great sound in this game. It tracks from left to right and front to rear quite well. 
 You can tell when you rear surfaces are getting shot away real quick.. Engine and gun sounds are 
 great and vary from plane to plane. When flying an open cockpit job, like the stubby I-16, you 
 even hear wind rushing past your head. And in a rear engine job, like the P-39 you can tell that 
 the engine is behind and not in front even with your eyes closed. Good work with separation as 
 well. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Single player gameplay in this game is superb, once you're in the air., on the ground, eh... less 
 than desired. You can fly for the Russians or the Germans, and the planes are expertly modeled. 
 These planes don't fly like X-Wings., they have expertly modeled flight characteristics. As a result 
 of these models, you can't just jump in and start flying. If you do you'll never even get it off 
 the runway. There's a steep learning curve here if you want to immerse yourself in it. You can 
 be as fussy as you want, chossing how much fuel, what kind of weapons loads, stalls, spins etc... 
 you play with or you can make it an arcade shooter if you like where everything just goes boom. 
 You can make it as easy or as hard on yourself as you want. 
  
  While its possible to play this game without a joystick, I'd not recommend it. You can go full 
 bore if you wish and get, headphones, rudder pedals, a throttle and joystick or simply get a cheepo 
 stick and have at it. Multiplayer online play is a big draw to this game as well. Numerous servers 
 exist where you can fly at every level from "full real" to "arcade" and everything in-between. 
 Word of caution, practice before venturing into the online realm as there are some real shooters 
 out there. But nothing beats the feeling of beating a real live person in real time in the crate 
 of your choice. 
  
  Bottom Line:
  This game is addictive as crack and with all the add-on's and mod's you can be playing this game 
 for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nohabs
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 2, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I was expecting too much. When I started this game the graphics were impressive the sound, 
 the realism all good. The game play... now that's a different story... first off to get to your 
 destination you had to put the game into 4 or 5x speed to get there without falling asleep.... actual 
 dog fighting, if your not a very hardcore flight sims gamer you are lost. it's much too hard to 
 track and shoot the ememy, let alone see who is shooting at you. I had the game settings set very 
 low but found I just did not like the way the gameplay was set-up. I'll admit I could have stuck 
 it out a little longer but found it much too fustrating. I even went out and bought a joystick, 
 actually I had to buy a joystick, without one there is no way you could play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2004 11:55 am PT
Review:  First of all anyone that wishes to get this game be warned! You should be experienced in flying 
 flight simulators. Il2 does have simple flying as in arcade style but you still have to know a 
 little bit about flying before you get online against others.
  You should practice and there are plenty of missions to practice with.
  
  The continued graphic 
 improvement and realisim of the ground, sky, cloud, water and canopy reflections make this game beautiful. 
 The sound has been well done. 
  
  The varity of missions has been well thought out and play smoothly. The ability to program your 
 joystick functions are simple and easy to do. UBI has set up servers which seem to work very well 
 for multiplayer but 56k modem users beware as I found much lag. In fact I quit playing this game 
 till I got DSL. That is not to say this game is any different than many others when playing online. 
 56k modem in my opinion anymore just dosen't do it. I sugest you get DSL if you wish to enjoy this 
 game in multiplayer mode. Playing single is well worth it but if you buy for the multiplayer only 
 then hold your Dollars for a while.
  
  The only thing I had a gripe with other than Multiplayer is the flight models of some of the planes. 
 As in any game you have the GOD weapon or plane etc. and this game is no different. So my gripe 
 is the accuracy of the flight models to history is wrong on some of the planes.
  
  I for one am happy to have bought this beautifull game and look forward to forgoten battles, Ace 
 expansion pack and Pacfic Fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phyrr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2004 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I played the MS Combat 3 flight simulator and it didn't really grab my interest as much as this 
 one has. This one I think is done extremely well. The missions that it has are of huge variety 
 and the physics seem to have had very good consideration. I don't think I've enjoyed a WW2 flight 
 sim this much since Dynamix released Aces Over Europe.
  
  Don't mind the previous reviewer. Obviously there is downtime in a combat simulator if you start 
 from takeoff. But with time compression up to 8x you can breeze through those times quickly. The 
 available map is detailed enough and is zoomable and will even reveal allied and enemy planes (if 
 you toggle that in the realism panel) . The game is even detailed enough to allow for prop pitch 
 of the planes and radiator control.
  
  If you're a flight sim fan and especially a WW2 flight sim fan you will absolutely enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
