-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Immortal Cities: Children of the Nile
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/childrenofthenile/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun city building with lots of detail.
 Good looking graphics.
 Economic system easy to understand.
 Filled with lots of charm .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Citizens' demands are sometimes frustrating.
 Religion requires a lot of micromanagement.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.5, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 685 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Myelin Media
Developer: Tilted Mill
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Nov 8, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Children of the Nile has a lot of personality and some interesting gameplay, but it's weighed down 
 by a few problems not found in some previous city-building games. 

  Immortal Cities: Children of the Nile is a promising start for developer Tilted Mill, which was 
 founded by veterans of Impressions, the studio responsible for early city-building games like Pharaoh 
 and Caesar. If you're a veteran of those games, the important thing to keep in mind is that Children 
 of the Nile is a fresh start for the genre. The developers took the opportunity to build a new 
 game from the ground up, rather than recycle previous gameplay conventions and mechanics. The result 
 is a game that has a lot of personality and some interesting city-building gameplay, but is weighed 
 down by a few problems not found in some of the previous games of this type.  

          Be careful about building on flood plains, because a big flood can wipe out many of your 
 buildings.     

  In Children of the Nile, you'll play as a series of pharaohs in Egypt's old, middle, and new kingdoms, 
 which were the height of its power and influence as a civilization. Your goal is to increase your 
 prestige, mainly by growing the size and power of your cities. The game features a grand campaign 
 that allows you to take on a series of progressively more-difficult challenges, as well as a number 
 of scenarios, several of which allow you to build a city from scratch. The game also features three 
 excellent tutorials that will teach you everything you need to know.  

  What makes Children of the Nile different from previous games in the genre is its emphasis on the 
 inhabitants of your cities. Unlike earlier city-building games, in which populations were abstracted 
 using statistics, Children of the Nile models each and every inhabitant of your city, tracking 
 them as they go about their daily lives. The result is that every character in the game belongs 
 to a household and has needs that must be addressed, including food, health care, housewares, and 
 religion. It's up to you to provide the necessary services by growing and maintaining a complex 
 economy, but that's one of the joys of Children of the Nile, because the citizen-based model allows 
 you to easily comprehend what's working in your city and, more importantly, what's not.  

  The backbone of your economy are the farmers, who plant and tend to their crops after the annual 
 flooding of the Nile. To support these farmers, you'll need smaller numbers of common shopkeepers, 
 such as pottery makers and basket weavers. These shopkeepers go out and gather resources such as 
 papyrus and flax, and then return to manufacture and sell their goods. Nobles are needed to oversee 
 vast farming estates, and in addition to common housewares, they require luxury goods and entertainment. 
 You'll also need bricklayers, brick makers, stone carvers, overseers, priests, temples, hospitals, 
 scribes, and a whole lot more to create a functional and thriving city. It's a tricky task, and 
 most of your time in the game will be spent trying to keep everything in balance, even as you expand 
 your city by leaps and bounds. But it's also a lot of fun, as your city looks and feels like a 
 real, functioning city, as hundreds of citizens go about their daily lives.  

  In addition to achieving the objectives in each scenario, your ultimate goal as pharaoh is to keep 
 your dynasty going over the years, as a typical scenario can easily run through several generations 
 of pharaohs. In an age when most humans were considered very lucky to live to 40, a great deal 
 of your time and effort will be spent on ensuring your immortality by building grand and lavish 
 tombs, such as pyramids. Failure to prepare for the afterlife will exact a heavy toll on your prestige, 
 which will make it tougher to build a flourishing city, because it will cut into the number of 
 government workers -- such as priests, scribes, and overseers -- that you can manage.  

  Thankfully, there are several ways of boosting prestige, ranging from making lavish improvements 
 to your palace to erecting statues and monuments to commemorate great victories. While the heart 
 of the game focuses on your city, there is a world map that displays other locations in Egypt that 
 you can explore or form trade partnerships with to import goods that you can't produce locally. 
 There are also bandit camps and other opponents that you can crush, though that involves merely 
 training and outfitting an army and then dispatching them on the world map. All the combat takes 
 place offscreen, and you'll simply be told whether your army was victorious or not, so there's 
 nothing to take you away from your city building. Win a great victory and you can establish a huge 
 commemorative memorial, to ensure that the prestige from the win doesn't fade away quickly.  

 
  Where Children of the Nile stumbles a bit is in the behavior of the citizenry. Sometimes your 
 citizens seem more than unreasonable, demanding things that are in abundance, in part because they 
 don't forget past wrongs. So if a citizen nearly died due to a lack of medical care, he won't care 
 that you've constructed a hospital after the fact. Still, it's still a bit frustrating to see citizens 
 picketing outside your palace, demanding things like housewares when there are shops filled with 
 such items nearby. And perhaps the most vexing problem is religion, mainly because the ancient 
 Egyptians worshipped more than a dozen different gods. Your pharaoh's prestige level often limits 
 you to only a handful of priests at a time, and priests have other tasks in addition to tending 
 to the gods, such as running the hospitals, schools, and mortuaries. The result is that you'll 
 be hard-pressed to keep everyone satisfied spiritually, as only a handful of gods can be worshipped 
 at a time. You'll have to constantly micromanage your shrines and temples, rotating the gods who 
 are worshipped there to keep your population satisfied. The alternative is to hold costly religious 
 festivals to blow off some steam.  

          If your citizens get too unhappy, you can hold expensive religious festivals to entertain 
 them.     

  Children of the Nile is a good-looking game, thanks to its strong 3D graphics. You can zoom in 
 to observe the action up close, or zoom out for a more-traditional view. Tilted Mill licensed the 
 Empire Earth engine and modified it, creating a game capable of capturing the nuances of everyday 
 life. There's a lot of color and detail packed into the game, and you'll see everything from little 
 kids tossing rocks into the air to entertainers juggling plates in some rich nobleman's estate. 
 There are also a few graphical glitches, not the least of which is that sometimes your citizens 
 will walk underwater when the annual flooding of the Nile occurs. The audio is very charming, particularly 
 the countless number of one-liners that your citizens will utter while performing their daily tasks. 
 These audio cues are cute, and they also provide you with feedback on what your citizens like and 
 dislike.  

  In the end, Children of the Nile is an engaging city-building strategy game, and its lighthearted 
 and colorful approach makes it suitable for gamers of pretty much all ages. The game's economic 
 system makes logical sense, and there's a very strong cause-and-effect system in place that allows 
 you to easily gauge the effectiveness of your policies. And while it suffers from a few problems, 
 Children of the Nile is a promising first step from a new developer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nicolelux
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  If you like city building games this is the one but you can go more in depth with the economy if 
 you like a bit of a thinking game this is for you. this game is far from tycoon style games. each 
 person you can click on and look into thier lives pretty amazing. and this game also educated you 
 on egyption life. The graphics are good but not great. the control and camera view are fun to change 
 and play with. the fighting and army is fun but more leans towards trading and ecoocmy and you 
 city. there are war levels in the game. they could of made some more larger sized sandbox level. 
 It took me almost a 3 days to build the great pyrimid you can easly get side tracked with other 
 parts of your city but one you figure out how many priests to hire your game will run smoothly 
 with no empty buildings. the great temple pyirmids and stutue are very realistic looking overall 
 i give this game thumbs up and suggest this for people that like indepth city building games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slurpee720
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I have never been able to keep a city. This game is incredibly hard. If your looking for an addicting 
 strategy game, this is a yes... and a no. The residents work and live in the same house so they 
 have to be constantly expanding districts which can never be to far from the nobles, or they get 
 mad. If people get mad, they leave to become like hobos. So yea, its pretty hard, but very addicting, 
 though not as addicting as CNC 3! or anything like that, plus its old... But its a good strategy 
 game and city builder, very different from the Sim City games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Immortal Cities: Children of the Nile reminds more like Tropic (o) than a Pharaoh. Every campaign 
 has its own primary assignment with secondary. Economy in this game lies on a few levels such as; 
 you must build temples for people to pray, make jobs for them to work etc. For building you need 
 to supply with bricks. Also you can explore Egypt to get what you need. You can build farms, statues, 
 pyramid etc. Al in the game is smart, they will go shopping, protest and many other things. However, 
 you must get the biggest prestige in your town.
  
  Graphic is good, comparing with Pharaoh, so as the sound. Well .. you should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollaman123
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Children of the nile is a unique game, both fun and enjoyable. It certanly is a game that can be 
 played for hours with no performance issues. The game has good graphics that are still not so outdated 
 which makes it good enough to play, plus the music if fun and fits the theme of the game.
  
  One great feature in this Historic City building game is that EVERYTHING IS TO SCALE, nothing 
 is to small or to big. The pyramids are huge and take up lots of space, the temples are enourmous 
 and are fit to actual scale. In many game like caesar 4, Civ city Rome and more games like that 
 the coliseums seems pitiful, and are the size of a large house, which makes the game suck. BUt 
 not his game, finally.
  
  Also the strategy is good, everything is well balanced, there is a good variety of building (not 
 a large variety, but like no games have this anyway) . Compared to most game this is an excellent 
 variety of buildings. There is literaly a building for almost everything, so you can expect to 
 keep building you heart out. The game also takes a LOT of time to make a city, and even pyramids, 
 if you are someone who likes to have a city built in a day, this game is going to be boring for 
 you. BEcause Pyramids and other large structures and take a very long time to build (depending what 
 speed, it can take hours) But when its done it really looks graphically awesome, and you feel good 
 that you built something like this.
  
  But as for the bad things about the game, the CITZENS CONSTANTLY COMPLAIN. It literally gives me 
 a headache when they complain about every little thing when its impossible to make them all happy, 
 and it even tells you in the tutorial that you can never fully make your people happy, so why keep 
 telling us there problems if there SO MINOR! Also this game is not for you if you are not patient, 
 because building cities can literally take days, especially if you like it at a normal to slow 
 speed.
  
  But overal, this game is truly great, and lives up from what it should be, its certainly better 
 than most games, but its really its own game which makes it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like the Ceaser games. It has some interesting features that set it apart. There's 
 not much else to add, except that this game has one fatal flaw: there is no way to speed up time. 
 That makes most maps last 6+ hours. I have been known to leave the room, or even the house, while 
 waiting for some grand construction project to reach completion. It's a testament to the game that 
 I'm willing to waste so much time on it. If you can find this game for cheap, go ahead and pick 
 it up, especially if you're waiting for the next set of games to be released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guybiggsl
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games that has came out since Pharo! I believe that this game even 
 beats Pharo hands down. The graphix are great and I love the game play. The on; y thing that I wish 
 is that someone would make a game like this for the PS2 or for the upcomming PS3, now that would 
 be a great game! I can't think of one thing that I would change about this game. It is fun for 
 just about all ages!! Also this game is very addictave. When Pharo came out I guess I played it 
 for over 200 hours. With this game I know I have played it for well over 500 hours. So if these 
 games are your type of thing then prepare to get complealy emersed and ready to play for hours 
 on end!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanoko
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 21, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  *POSSIBLE SPOILER* This is a good game centered around Egypt. It's not as addictive as some but 
 still remains a good and fun city-building game without a doubt. Controlling an egyptian city can 
 be exciting. Being a pharoh controlling your people and having multiple classes of  
 With such a powerful influence on society and others are very good and this game should be a must-have 
 for city-building lovers. But, it does lack some things and isn't exactly addictictibe for long 
 periods of time with a weak replay value. Though many parts of the game are fun and interesting 
 it's features tend to diminish and get very tiring. It also has a few bugs that can be a real pain 
 because of the fact that building's in the game. But alll around it still remains a good city-building 
 game with it's own unique sense of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game is a very good city-builder, with loads of buildings to choose from and various people 
 classes. The game is the first to use the system of people being your currency, not money, and 
 it works quite well. You dont need to pay for decorative buildings or basic housing, but the bigger 
 buildings you have to pay in bricks, which are made at the brickworks. The tutorials are a huge 
 help, and tell you everything you need to know (dont start the game without doing the tutorials!) . 
 However, it is easy to forget the numerous aspects of the game and you will find yourself playing 
 the hour-long tutorials again, which is quite frustrating. The graphics are very good, but the 
 sound is a bit odd, with ancient Egyptians saying modern-day phrases. The gameplay will keep you 
 glued for a day or two, possibly more. If you are a fan of city-building games, you should definately 
 check this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Children of the nile is a great sim game. You build houses for your people to live in and appoint 
 them jobs, there are many different ways to play through the game and many different objectives 
 you can accomplish.
  
  Children of the nile is set in ancient egypt and you guessed it, byt he river nile. You live of 
 the land so you must grow, harvest, tax, distribute crops and food. You get this from the three 
 states of the river Nile. When it is flooding your people must sustain. when it has stopped flooding 
 the furtile ground is ideal for growing on, so that is the planting season. When thats over you 
 harvest it. 
  
  This isn't a first person game you are a pharoh over-looking the people of egypt. It's veyr active 
 and you can see your people oing about their jobs and such as they wish. The AI in this game is 
 excelent, each of your hundreds of people has their own life they collect what they need and can 
 fashion objects to sell, go shopping, have conversations, protest and whatever else they wish to 
 do. The scenery is stupendous and you'll see what you want to see, you have a greta control of 
 the camera and can choose to follow a single person or your whole nation.
  
  The game is a strategy but the people have there own minds and can themselves determine some of 
 the game. There are so many strategical elements to this game that i can't list them all but to 
 put it briefly you could spend all week with a nation and never run out of things to do. You can 
 even build greta pyramids, this isn't however a job of clicking on a person and getting him to 
 make you a pyramid. You must acquire the neccessary resources like limestone which can be bought 
 from travellers and other nations, mined or received through diplomacy. With the resources your 
 still not done, you need to appoint Overseers to oversee the labourers into building your pyramid. 
 With overseers you can't just make a single click and they'll train your labourers, they must be 
 educated by a priest at a school and sent to become an overseer. You must build a school and priests 
 quarters, for this you need bricks, the brickmaker makes them and the bricklayer lays them. 
  
  It goes on like that and as i said, you could play for weeks and have more to do. It's vast 
 vibrant, compelling and basically an excelent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a great city building game. You Pretty much take control of an egyptian town along the 
 nile and start building.
  
  Gameplay: Well it's like sim city and all thoughs other games accept there are some differences. 
 There arre alot more buildings to build and for different reason in the city. The people accually 
 come out and talk and even riot if you don't treat them right. What funny is that you can watch 
 a guy begin attacked by a corcodile or a crane.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are good they are not the best but they look good enough. very detailed 
 and you can soom in and out to have a close look at people and buildings.
  
  Sound: There is not much sound accept for the walking steps of the people the nature sonds and 
 people talking.
  
  all in all this is a good game that should keep you occupied for a while. i give this game eight 
 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacknwhite2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  It had good graphics and gameplay. i have played it for hours, the thing that doesn't look good 
 for it is using food as currency, otherwise everything else is perfect. it's a great game for us 
 and those city sim lovers. It had good communication between the AI. The interface was set out 
 well. This is a must buy game for everything it has it is value for money. If I had to choose something 
 that makes the game good I would choose everything. For more about the game go on www. gamespot. com. 
 This is a site where youll find updates, patches, new maps, screenshots or a demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHat
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  this game is fun during your first few hours then after that it's quite dragging. The games citizens 
 are very hard to please even if you have more than enough priests running around the city they 
 still complain, one time i got drowsy playing this game and it's kinda ironic since i'm a big fan 
 of strategy and/or sim games this is one big dissaointment for me because for the most of the time 
 you just stare at your monitor and watch the people complain. On the other hand the game's graphics 
 is good and the 3d rendering is fair but the style of gameplay is truly unique. The structures 
 are very well done and also the games's cinematics (seen during the game intro) . i classified it 
 hard because the game indeed is hard too much complaining from the citizens it drains the gamer's 
 energy and momentum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:05 pm PT
Review:  am a micromanagement freak and love all kinds of games where you can play God, build cities and 
 manage budgets. 
  
  It came as no surprise that I quickly got addicted to Children of the Nile, not just for that, 
 but also because I am a bit fascinated by all things Egyptian.
  
  I have to mention this was the first game ever that I felt I got enough help from the manual included 
 in the box. It's very detailed, has tons of useful tips, and most important, it explains how things 
 are related and how the positioning of buildings is crucial to the development of the cities. Usually 
 I don't get this kind of enlightenment from a simple instruction booklet.
  
  I started by playing the tutorial, which is divided in three chapters. I recommend you play this 
 first, as it will explain the basics of the game as well as more advanced features later on, like 
 creating armies and building monuments celebrating events.
  
  It's a step-by-step process to make you acquainted with the interface, but gives you enough freedom 
 to explore your surroundings and observe your people while still learning.
  
  The main thing to keep in mind while playing is that you can't do anything without food and bricks. 
 These are your main resources - you need them to support your people, to erect certain buildings, 
 to improve your palace, to trade for other goods and to send your armies on a campaign. 
  
  Bricks are made by the Brick Makers and transported by the Brick Layers. You'll find that demolishing 
 and rebuilding to move your brickworks around is the best solution for an expanding city. Your 
 Brick Layers won't like the idea of carrying bricks for long distances and will always do the closest 
 delivery first, so either place a building at a time or have a supply of bricks nearby.
  
  Nobles manage farmers, which grow your crops, thus bringing you food. Nobles also need food, and 
 they take it from the harvest or will get it from the Bakeries, which are government buildings. 
 Excess food can be stored in Granaries. Make sure you have enough food for everyone, and don't 
 place more farmer houses than your nobles can manage. Bakeries also need a Scribe assessing fields 
 to get their share of food.
  
  Other needs will arise as you progress. Education, provided by Priests, is the only way to obtain 
 Graduates (educated workers) . These will work for the government as Scribes, Priests, Commanders 
 and Overseers. The need for goods and services is satisfied by building shops (common and luxury 
 wares) and healthcare facilities, mortuaries, schools, barracks, shrines, temples and other structures 
 to keep everyone satisfied.
  
  You will find that placement is everything. Everyone wants shops nearby, and shops need their resources 
 handy so the owners spend more time making their products and less time looking for them. A Priest 
 can provide more services if he doesn't have to walk great distances to get to the Hospital or 
 the School, so these facilities should always be close to the Priest's Apartment. Overseers and 
 Laborer Huts should be near the quarries and mines, but they will need facilities of their own 
 as well. These are called laborer camps, and are basically a city of their own.
  
  The main difference between Children of the Nile and other games of the same genre is that here 
 you don't just place buildings. You place the foundations and your people will take care of building 
 it. You will watch as your workers carry bricks to constructions sites, erect buildings and haul 
 gigantic blocks of stone out of the quarries.
  
  And these little things are what make this game so involving and unique. You can get lost for hours 
 just watching how the AI works, and following citizens up close. See the bakers making bread, the 
 farmers planting and harvesting, the entertainers dancing and juggling at a noble's house, the 
 Pharaoh coming out for a stroll, the soldiers practicing on the training grounds, people carrying 
 a sarcophagus to a tomb, even a cat licking itself on the street.
  
  If you want to have a taste of the splendor of Ancient Egypt, you can download the demo at the 
 official site and immerse yourself in an amazing journey to the past where you reincarnate as the 
 Pharaoh to lead your empire to immortality.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=immortalcitiescotn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdsu_master
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  i'm very impressed with this game. i've bene playing PC games since the mid 90's. I've played every 
 city builder game that's been out, cant wait fort Caesar IV next year!!!
  
  one of the greatest tings about this game is that you win by satisfying the people's desires... 
 not yours or just building a lot of buildings. I cant wiat for them to get to the second one in 
 this series. Maybe they can do one on the Great Kahn, after all his civilization spand from China 
 to Persia to Muscovy and into the edges of the balkans, with trade with the venetians. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Composer17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  i found it very difficult to keep from angry egyptians rioting in front of my palace. This game 
 take a great amount of skills to make sure you never see picket sighns. In this game you are able 
 to explore new rigions around and in Egypt in order to get mor supplies and mainly wealth. In this 
 game you are able to build large temples, small farms, invinsable walls, majestic statues ,and 
 towering pyramids. You are able to spread your new city for miles and increass your power. I found 
 this game difficult to learn to play and you lose intrest in it in about 3 days. The possabillities 
 in this game are endless but you rarely are able to get access to them. At times it can get very 
 frustrating when half nacked people are rioting because they don't have enough food. Also when 
 you are trying to build a structure it takes a great deal of time. This game was not on my favs. 
 list or my hate list. It was not bad but ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtbofm
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  With Children of the Nile, Tilted Mill, the successor to legendary city-building makers Impressions, 
 have gone off on a new direction for this city sim. Their goal was to make a city builder which 
 was about more than just making money and conquering traffic ( la Sim City) or about the fiction 
 of walkers (in the style of the Impressions games) but a city that genuinely captures the inter-relatedness 
 of its citizens.
  
  For example, your priest is not providing temple services because he has a shortage of food. In 
 most games, you just plant a baker across the road from him and the problem is solved. Not so here. 
 It may be that there simply is no grain for the bakeries  and that is because the scribe is not 
 calculating the taxes  and that is because he is distressed at the shortage of temple services. 
 As less grain comes in, shopkeepers get unpaid and so do not sell goods, so nobles become dissatisfied 
 and leave town and the farmers from their estates go with them, meaning even less food. You get 
 the picture.
  
  But what you are left with is an extremely good and accurate city sim in the true sense of the 
 word  a simulator of real life  but not a really fantastic game. What this game does, it does 
 REALLY well and if heavy micromanagement and tweaking is your thing you will have a ball playing 
 this. If you are a trigger happy Diablo II or RTS fan, you probably wont make it through the tutorial.
 
  
  However, even if you are into city-builders there are some basic flaws. Through the campaign, each 
 new city feels like just another sandbox. Sure there are objectives to be met but they are of a 
 similar feel to those in preceding missions and the real strategy is in the placement and layout 
 of your city in a new terrain with a different spread of resources. It lacks an incentive to make 
 your way through the campaign; a sense of some achievement or progress as you go. It is simply 
 a case of, Well, that is another mission done  time to build another city. Consequently, this 
 is a game most people will play through in one stretch. You will play a mission or two, put it 
 aside and come back again in a few months and pick it up again.
  
  GRAPHICS: This is done really well. Even on a fairly ordinary machine this game looks fantastic. 
 There is loads of detail, superb and easily used camera angles and a good screen capture facility. 
 There are loads of little touches: workers collecting reeds from the banks of the Nile cause ripples 
 as they wade, people shopping at a linen merchant come out of the shop in new clothes, the nobility 
 actually weep at funerals etc. This will not disappoint.
  
  SOUND: Quite competent. The music is well done and quite evocative and goes well in the background. 
 On zooming in, you can hear the conversations of your citizens. These are not as informative as 
 in previous games nor as helpful as publicity suggests. Being told by some farmer that things 
 are gradually getting worse each year does not really tell me too much about what their problem 
 might be.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Let me start by saying I think they got the timing right this time. In Pharaoh, constructing 
 a pyramid was a LONG process. Here it is faster but more manageable. You still have the sense that 
 this is major undertaking and thing to behold  but you are not reading a novel while you wait 
 for the thing to be built.
  
  The in-game tutorials are well done and explain stuff well, although there are a few aspects not 
 included. The manual is adequate but not fantastic and the so-called extra strategy disk is more 
 a case of collected designer diaries than strategy.
  
  The real enjoyment in this game will come for those who simply love being able to build a thriving 
 metropolis just how they want it. Few cultures exceeded the Egyptians in magnificence of their 
 monuments and they are all available here  pyramids, sphinxes, stelae, obelisks, temples  the 
 works. Most lesser beautification objects like plazas, fountains and gardens are all free so the 
 decorators out there will have a great time.
  
  There is no real pressure of pace in the game and that will not be to the taste of everyone but 
 if it is your thing, this is a most creative and satisfying game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximillian
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2005 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that could make you lose your job! After a couple of 3-4AM sessions, 
 I nearly did! That said COTN is addictive! With a good graphics card, proper surround sounds (or 
 5.1 headphones!) , you are in for an experience that'll make time fly. I haven't had this much fun 
 since I got HL2. 
  The only gripe I've got with COTN is a little AI bug where people go fetch resources WAY on the 
 other side of the map when there is plenty locally, and that there arent a big enough variety 
 of monuments and decorative elements to play with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordofinsight
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  After playing all the impressions city building games I, like many, believe pharaoh to be the most 
 enjoyable. So when I heard that Tilted Mill were doing a sort of remake I was looking forward to 
 it immensely. 
  
  Simply put this is a beautiful game and requires many hours of managing, adorning and strategies 
 in order to succeed at being a truly great pharaoh. The learning tutorials are easy to get on with 
 and I recommend you play them at least twice before plunging into the campaign fully. As you delve 
 further and further into the campaign the more you learn, I have been playing for nearly fifty 
 hours and I am still learning things, on game help is invaluable, this in turn prepares you for 
 the next challenge, but then the game throws a new curve ball and you have to plan anew.
  
  I recommend this to anyone who enjoys rewarding challenges and is not afraid to suffer with his/her 
 minions from the mistakes that you will make. Excellent money for value, I hope there is more come 
 from Tilted Mill if this is a sign of what they can achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayhawk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I like this game, produced by Tilted Mill, who, while a new company 
 as such employ many of the people that made such great city building titles as Pharaoh. 
  
  The game looks simply gorgeous, with its rich textures, varied characters, and multitude of buildings. 
 While it asks a fair or better graphics card, it's well worth it to be able to see the moon rise 
 over the pyramids, or the water glisten in the morning sun. The engine allows you to zoom from 
 a godlike perspective where people are as small as ants, right down to first person perspective. 
 
  Animals, such as cats and monkeys wander around the city, traders come from afar, either by boat 
 or by donkey caravan, your people work the fields, look for resources and over all Pharaoh walks 
 your streets governing his realm. 
  
  Sound wise, it's got nice ambiance sounds and the funny character dialogues which remind one of 
 the earlier city builder games. Remember, though, you'll need to be close (zoomed in) to the characters 
 to hear them speak.
  
  The game world is divided into two layers, one the detailed map on which you build your city, the 
 other the world map, on which you interact with what happens outside your city.
  
  Scenarios, the game is divided in three campaigns, offering you you some fifteen cities which can 
 be played on normal or hard difficulty, cover the building of monuments and/or the gathering of 
 resources for projects on the world map. As expected, you will need to carefully balance your income 
 (bread from the grain your peasants grow) and resources (mostly clay bricks and papyrus) with your 
 expenses (building structures and sending out expeditions on the world map) .
  
  Your biggest challenge, however, will be in keeping people happy enough to work for you. For this 
 you will need to provide them with such things food, shelter, education, access to gods and protection. 
 Be careful, though, people will carry grudges, that only fade slowly over time. Should everyone 
 be upset over the lack of apothecaries to cure a disease, building half a dozen of them will not 
 make these people instantly happy. It will however, keep them from getting even more mad at you.
 
  
  Most of the more advanced jobs, such as teaching and building monuments need educated people. The 
 number of these is limited by your Prestige, a measure of how well respected you are by your people. 
 Increasing prestige can be done by building monuments, defeating enemies and exploration. 
  
  While it takes a while to get used to this, especially if you are familiar with the older city 
 builder games, the system actually works pretty elegantly. 
  
  What should be noted is that this is not a quick game. It needs time to build a viable community, 
 it takes time to gather resources and some monuments will take a serious amount of time to construct. 
 I tend build slowly and to spend the time in between on adding beautifications to the city and 
 improving Pharaoh's prestige. I think I only was a tad bored once, and that was while constructing 
 the giant pyramid of Mennefer. 
  Unfortuanately this is one of the first scenarios you can play, based on historic accuracy, and 
 might put you off playing. 
  
  Another thing that should be noted is that this is not a military game of putting building and 
 managing military units. The only challenge your city will encounter military wise are occasional 
 raiders, which your security forces, rather than your army deals with. Armies are built to neutralise 
 threats on the world map, and the game will carefully inform you of your chance to succeed. Thus 
 these become more a tactical, resource challenge than a strategic one.
  
  All things considered I enjoyed playing this game and look forward to Tilted Mill's next creation. 
 After all, the title of their Children of the Nile website: Immortal Cities, suggests there's more 
 to come... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 26, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Immortal Cities: Children of the Nile is a charming game, and quite engaging to play. It's one 
 of those games that had a lot of potential, but just didn't quite achieve all that it could have.
 
  
  Some of the plusses:
  * Being able to go 3D. Walking through your cities is quite an experience.
  * The comments made 
 by the villagers. Hilarious!
  
  Not so plus-worthy:
  * One scenario is much like the next.
  * The game is incredibly slow. Not performance related 
 slow - just slow.
  
  To go into detail: CotN is very engaging, at first blush. It's a classic city builder, with a couple 
 of twists. The challenge of the game is not over-growing your city. For instance, a major fact 
 in the game is that citizens try to social-climb, just as in real life. Shop-keeping is more lucrative 
 than farming. If you build too many shops, or build at the wrong time (harvest, for instance) you 
 will have a problem of not having enough farmers. 
  
  While the graphics and sound aren't really noteworthy, there's nothing wrong with them, either. 
 Gameplay is fairly straightforward, and easy to jump into. The problems I have with the game are 
 a bit more subtle.
  
  It seems as though once you get your city started, it's a waiting game. Wait to get enough stone, 
 wait to get enough bread. Wait, wait, wait. And NOTHING exciting happens as you wait. The seasons 
 come and go, everything goes on, nothing really changes. Good flood, bad flood. Life goes on. Speeding 
 the game up is somewhat helpful, but not much. To me, if I'm playing a game and need to get up, 
 I *want* to need to pause the game. I don't want the game to be so boring that I can leave it with 
 no fear of missing something. Letting the game run while I cook dinner - there's something wrong 
 with that. I've heard people on the official forum talk of "cooking" a scenario overnight as they 
 sleep. Eh? 
  
  My final take: it's a good game. It's not a great game, nothing stellar. It requires a lot of baby-sitting. 
 I don't think you'll get a lot of gameplay out of it unless you're in love with city-building. 
 My advice would be to go ahead and try it out, but catch it in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerdt
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  I initially stayed away from CotN, because of the mediocre GS review. Nevertheless, I went out 
 today and bought the game and just finished the 4-hour (!) long tutorial. If you liked the old "Pharao", 
 "Zeus" and "Caesar" games, you will absolutely love this one.
  
  A pretty deep, immersive and impressive innovation of the genre and definitely recommended for 
 all fans of deep strategy games. The 3D graphics engine is very fast and stable, based of the "Empire 
 Earth" engine. The soundtrack and effects are very nice, with a lot of good (and sometimes) funny 
 feedback from your "people".
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 13, 2004 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I really had alot of fun playing this title. Those of you that know me know that I like resource 
 trader games so this one is right up my ally. 
  Your job here is mainly to raise a city earning prestige points while keeping your people satisfied 
 with resources and entertainment. If you dont meet their needs they'll drop you and become a vagrant 
 in your city... This addes even more problems when you let them become vagrants..
  The graphics and sounds effects are satisfactory and the music scores are great but to few... eventually 
 you'll turn the music off. 
  The ambiance sounds can get annoying though... Random sounds of busy noise.... but the comments 
 from the people are numerous and sometimes funny.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirstyg
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 22, 2004 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Apart from being buggy and having bad coding, this game just wasn't completely thought out all 
 the way through. Apart from not having alll the wars I've heard about in egypt, it doesn't reflect 
 it's culture either. Most game concepts are made up and not even close to being realistic. The 
 bugs I experienced were mainly graphical, which is extremely unusual for a strategy game. My top 
 of the line card doesn't give me trouble on doom3, Battlefield Vietnam, or any other PC Game I've 
 owned/tried to date. If you still think you might be interested, play the demo first. You may then 
 want to check out some other strategy titles:
  
  Civilization Series (III and IV newest installments in series)
  Sim City
  Rise of Nations
 
  Age of Mythology: The Titans Expansion 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
