-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Imperium Romanum
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/imperiumromanum/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Online high score tracking.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 So crash-prone that it's almost unplayable.
 Basic design is too dated and generic.
 Not enough Roman history or flavor.
 Horribly limited army management and combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 364 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Haemimont
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 11, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Old-fashioned city building and bugs turn Imperium Romanum into an ancient ruin. 

  Even with a cool new Latinized name, Imperium Romanum is pretty much the exact same game as Glory 
 of the Roman Empire, which came, saw, and inspired a thousand yawns back in 2006. This carbon copy 
 also has tougher problems to deal with than simply ripping off a two-year-old snoozer that nobody 
 much cared for, since a legion of bugs leave the game stuck somewhere between "unstable" and "God 
 help you."  

  And that last sentence isn't hyperbole. In its launch state, Imperium Romanum is virtually unplayable. 
 Crashes are so commonplace that it's almost impossible to get through a scenario without the game 
 hard-locking your system and forcing a reboot. Any sort of monkeying around with the default graphical 
 settings tends to make matters much worse. Turn on antialiasing or anisotropic filtering, for example, 
 or dial up shadows and grass detail, and chances are pretty good that the game will freeze before 
 you even make it to a scenario loading screen. You're really going to want to crank up the graphics, 
 too, because it will seem like you're viewing the game through a screen door at the default 1024x768 
 resolution and lowball detail settings. It doesn't take much fiddling for the game to go boom, 
 either. Sometimes it crashes on interface menu screens that are just displays of text and a few 
 static pictures. These bugs are depressingly common, if the posts at the developer's official forum 
 are any indication. Haemimont is promising to release a patch in the near future, but really, this 
 game never should have been shipped in such an rickety condition in the first place.  

           City building like grandma used to make.      

  Even if you can keep Imperium Romanum 
 up and running, you're not going to experience anything that you haven't encountered many times 
 before. As noted off the top, this is really just a refined take on Glory of the Roman Empire, 
 with an improved 3D engine and more Rome-specific civilizational touches. But the overall design 
 still feels phoned in. There is no formal campaign, for instance, just an historical timeline mode 
 where you gradually proceed through scenarios from key moments in Roman history. You start off 
 with just Rome in 509 BC, Rome in 146 BC, and Pompeii in 70 BC (although this should actually be 
 AD 70, as that's when Mount Vesuvius blew its top and buried the provincial town in ash) , with 
 success in each mission unlocking around a dozen further stops along a timeline that ranges all 
 the way from the birth of Rome to the second century AD. The actual history represented in these 
 scenarios is awfully skimpy, however, so you'll really only get anything out of them if you're 
 already familiar with ancient Rome and know what events the dates represent. The only other mode 
 of play is a sandbox mode that takes you to rough approximations of famous Roman cities like Thessalonica 
 and Caesarea. It's equally light on history, with terrain being the only real links between these 
 simulated cities and their ancient inspirations.  

  Gameplay doesn't provide much in the way of an ancient history lesson, either. It doesn't appear 
 as though Haemimont is very concerned with history -- or spell-checking, for that matter, given how 
 you're called a "Preator" all through the tutorial. You're really playing a stereotypical city 
 builder with some Roman-inspired visuals, not a Roman city builder. So you build the standard-issue 
 town with the expected town center, the de rigeur houses, the usual barracks and stables, and the 
 rather familiar flax and pig farms. None of these buildings look particularly Roman, just vaguely 
 ancient in a generic style. All share so many similar characteristics that it's hard to tell a 
 villa from a tavern at any distance. Resources are standard for this sort of game, too, with you 
 gathering timber, stone, meat, wine, and so forth. Combat is just as basic, in that you occasionally 
 have to raise armies of soldiers, archers, and cavalry to beat down pesky barbarians.  

  There isn't anything particularly wrong with any of this, of course. During stable moments, the 
 game plays quite smoothly, with a reasonable level of challenge and an easy-to-use interface that 
 places all of the controls at your fingertips. The only real hitch is the absence of a proper time-compression 
 option, as the game runs on only two speeds -- "really slow" and plain old regular "slow." But it 
 all feels so dreary and uninspired. Too much here is patterned after the city-building template 
 first laid out in games like Caesar over a decade ago. Scenario objectives sure don't break any 
 new ground, so don't expect any big thrills here unless you're still having a blast building a 
 town up to 60 citizens, or reaching a certain number of villas, or constructing a monument like 
 a triumphal arch. The only mildly intriguing modern touch is automatic tracking of high scores 
 over the Net, which gives you a target to shoot for each and every time you load up a scenario. 
 Of course, this is still a pretty poor excuse for going head-to-head with another wannabe city 
 planner in a real multiplayer mode.  

           Raising armies and sending them into combat is a brainless exercise.      

  Even if 
 you appreciate this sort of mundane city building, many aspects of the design seem broken. It's 
 sometimes impossible to satisfy citizens' demands for basic amenities like water and sausages. 
 Residents often won't stop whining even when you drop wells and butcher shops right on their doorsteps. 
 Many times you have to micromanage your plebs by manually clicking on them and ordering them to 
 satisfy their needs by buying sausage or whatever it is that they're griping about. Riots will 
 sometimes start up when you've got just a couple of angry citizens in your whole town. Fires will 
 sometimes begin for no reason, even if you've got the town fully covered by prefectures, apparently 
 just to set you back and drag out scenario length. Needless to say, this isn't a great deal of 
 fun. Having half-wits torching villas when they can't find the butcher shop across the street is 
 a real pain, as is enduring the random, fiery wrath of Vulcan on your farms. Employment is another 
 problem. Jobs are slotted for men and women, with men getting the grunt farm work and women taking 
 care of taverns. This is fine and dandy when it comes to providing a realistic look at the sexist 
 times way back when, but it's a pain when most of the jobs are reserved for men. Unless you have 
 the room and denarii to build a pile of woman-hiring taverns, your unemployment rate is guaranteed 
 to be eternally high due to all the women who can't find jobs.  

  Army management is such a total waste of time that it shouldn't have been included in the game 
 at all. Buildings such as barracks and stables create and maintain only a single complement of 
 troops. If you want more than one company of soldiers, you have to build multiple buildings, which 
 is well-nigh impossible in many scenarios due to lack of space and money. This makes combat excruciatingly 
 drawn out. If your single company of, say, hastati is beaten to a hasty retreat by a pack of marauding 
 barbarians (all your enemies are marauding barbarians, by the way) , you have to wait for your boys 
 to retreat to their barracks and then slowly rebuild their numbers. Lose a couple of scraps and 
 you spend more time waiting for troop strength to get back up to snuff than you do actually playing 
 general. Not that you can do much ordering around even if you get onto a Trajanlike roll. Aside 
 from basic moving and a couple of formations, the only battle commands are attack, retreat, and 
 stop. So all you can really do is point your troops at the nearest enemy town and hope they wind 
 up burning it to the ground.  

  Buggy, boring, and pointless, Imperium Romanum is about as hard on gamers as Nero was on Christians. 
 It may get some of the basics right, but the many technical flaws and the simplistic regurgitation 
 of game mechanics almost as old as Hadrian's Wall leave very little here to be enjoyed, no matter 
 how much you like playing Caesar.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: st19667
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:02 am PT
Review:  i'm big fan of city building game since Caesar3.
  this game has a lot of things which player have to do, 
  but the system of game is very simple 
 and easy to understand.
  i'm very impressed how developer created very user friendly interface.
  this is what city building 
 games should have !
  
  you will be boring if you loves combat RTS however city builders fans who loves to look the people's 
 life and building situation will love this game.
  recently City building games aren't often release so this game is very important for this genre. 
 actually i have some complain on this game but it's not mean this game's score become 3.5!
  i would like to give the score 8.0. 
  
  the reason of -2.0 is ... this game don't have editor!!! 
 this is only a reason why i had to -2.0. i'm really dissapointed when i knew this game don't have 
 editor ..... this game could be more better if developer released EDITOR!!!
  well.. player won't get bored easily because there are a lot of scenario and free build map already 
 included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anguille02
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  I've been playing City-Building games since Caesar II. Imperium Romanum is perfect in realism. 
 The game is slow paced and you really get a feeling of achievement when you can build a theatre, 
 the Colosseum or the Circus Maximus... in other citybuilders you can build these before anyone lives 
 in your city which is not realistic. Here you need to build up your city step by step. The environment 
 is beautiful and the music is very relaxing. The game is actually so well designed that some reviewers 
 consider it a flaw: there's no need for micromanagement if you plan you city well... you may just 
 let it "live" by itself! Sometimes, when i've built a Metropolis, i like to leave it for an hour 
 by itself and check later on if the balance of my city was well done and my citizens are still 
 happy... some reviewers seem like they would like to face problems where they can micromanage. 
 The interface is so easy to use and disappears when you don't need it so you can really enjoy the 
 view of your city! The military aspect is basic on purpose! Haemimont has produced some of the 
 best military games in the past (see Celtic Kings) but this is a city-builder... not a wargame.
 
  
  Pros:
  
  - Relaxing music (it's a city-building, not an ego-shooter)
  - Beautiful environment
  - realistic growth
  - Many historical Buildings
  - Lots of historical 
 information
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eraldi
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  You know i was so happy about this game coming out i had good hopes about it . I thought well its 
 new and it will have a better play then the old version of the game. Well i was wrong , the game 
 its the same like the old one and its hard to manage your game and army .
  My opinion on this game is low because i was expecting better but o well ..
  I would recommend 
 you play the demo and if you like it then buy it Me i just gave it to my friend to play  
 It On Your Own  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rittmeister
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The low review score this game got is really unjustified.
  It's a relaxing, fun game, and it works pretty well, once you figure out how buildings and settlers 
 depend on each other.
  For example: Temples and altars are important. Make sure most houses have one in their radius (which 
 shows when you click on buildings) .
  
  Also make sure to have enough slaves, especially if you start selling goods.
  You need a lot 
 of them, otherwise they slow down every progress!
  
  I played 6 long missions so far, and the game just crashed a single time, even though I listen 
 to Alex Jones Radio show (Infowars. com) online via Winamp, and had lots of background programs 
 running.
  
  I also like to play Total War and many other games, but I often switch to Imperium Romanum in between, 
 because it provides a nice, enjoyable, challenging, and fun time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdoelrock
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  may be the game is very simple and contain some bugs which aren't that annoying ,but since it entertains 
 you, with the very good visuals and easy controls it's a good game, usually when we hear about a 
 city builder you imagine a large menu with lots of building ,and people that are never satisfied 
 .
  
  imperium romanum doesn't have all that complex, where the military is very simple and you can leave 
 the city for a whole five minutes and you won't find your city burning or your people have destroyed 
 the city , which is something new in that type of games .& and now you are able to compete with 
 whole world by the online score board.
  
  and the campaign is also fun ,where your objectives will be represented in tablets which will guide 
 you step by step till the end of your mission.
  
  you won't regret buying this game, as it fills your empty time with lots of entertainment & fun 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Imperium Romanum's lazy, old fashioned base building, the lack of entertaining combat, as well 
 as the massive stability issues makes this game a yawner.
  
  At launch state, Imperium Romanum contains serious stability issues. It's nearly impossible to 
 go through a scenario without some kind of random screen-lock or crash. Once you get around the 
 kinks in the bugs department, you will see something you have already seen a dozen times before. 
 There is no actual campaign, just a weird timeline where you proceed through events in history. 
 History is where the game skimps too much, something that should not be done with a game designed 
 around the Roman Empire. There is just not enough character, Roman elements, atmosphere or soul 
 to drive this airy RTS.
  
  Gameplay doesn't provide anything you haven't already experienced in past games. The whole system 
 is very basic, you gather your meats, stone, timber and so forth. The combat is also very lacking, 
 as you occasionally send squads of soldiers, archers, and cavalry to raid barbarian villages. Nothing 
 particularly exciting.
  
  In the end, Imperium Romanum is brainless, boring and broken. It may get some of the very core 
 basics right, but together with the technical issues and the mundane action, Imperium Romanum leaves 
 very little to be enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerim79
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand the negatives reviews of the game out there. First, I have hadonly one random 
 crash to the desktop in over 20 hours of playing. Your mileage may vary, but crashes are not a 
 concern for me.
  
  The graphics are spot on for a city building game. The high resolution and effects certainly make 
 this game stand up to others. What I like most is the overall art style that really does look the 
 way Roman settlements would have looked like. There is a lot of brown and the graphics look 'weathered' 
 for the gritty every day Roman feel. As your city grows dirt roads turn into paved streets, and 
 the houses get upgraded; but no matter how much your city grows, you always get the feel of an 
 ancient city. Lots of stone and dirt really add to the ambience.
  
  There are many buildings at your disposal and thankfully they thought to put the radius of influence 
 on each building so you can see just exactly how far its influence reaches. A nice touch would 
 have been to give special functions to most buildings, such as they did with the Circus Maximus 
 whereby you can hold chariot races at your discretion. The only quiblle I have is that you can't 
 easily tell what is holding your houses back from evolving as you could in the Caesar games. You 
 just have to keep building monuments and buildings around your houses until they evolve without 
 really ever knowing which you need to build.
  
  One of the things I really do like are the 'tablets' which act as special events. Some times a 
 tablet will ask you to build something and sometimes it will grant special abilities like increased 
 wheat production for the next five minutes. You pull three tablets at a time and work on fullfilling 
 its wishes.
  
  I especially like how Rome is much more of a patron in this game than in the Caesar games, where 
 Rome was always demanding more wine and punishing you for not producing. War is much better abstracted 
 here. I want a city game not a war simulation. However, war was a part of everyday life and the 
 game certainly gives you the feeling of sending out your warriors to battle the barbarians with 
 out having to pick formation they will use or what style of fighting to use. 
  
  In summary, Imperium Romanum is a must buy for city building fans. There honestly isn't anything 
 wrong with this game, although there may not be anything terrible new here. What it does, it does 
 exceptionally well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jecstir
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  it was so bad, that it had no value from being good from being bad. usually a crappy game can entertain 
 the stoned or the drunken, but this game hits the spot in a bad way, not the good-bad way. lol, 
 but seriously...
  the controls sucked
  the armies sucked and were kinda gay even for a strat game
  the people don't tell you anything 
 when you click them.
  plus the single player isnt really worth a crap besides VAGUE references to roman mythology. and 
 a non-linear scenario based game.
  
  its like they copied a genre but left out the most important parts. like they honestly woke up 
 and said HEY all the crappy parts from sims, sim city, caesarIV, 
  
  limited control functions ruins this one's chance at a 5 or 6 for playability
  Ill splurg and 
 give it a 2.5
  on the other hand,
  i guess it does have its sounds and historical regerences, so maybe a 3 overall. The ultra christian 
 parents may approve of this kindergarten game for their homeschool kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Right out with it then-sadly Imperium Romanum isn't worth the rather steep release price. Perhaps 
 an exception could be made if you were clinical. I'm not going to bash the game but, sadly it suffers 
 from a lot of issues. I wouldn't call the game 'unstable' by any means-it runs quite well on both 
 my Dell Vostro 1500 and my main gaming rig. The issues with this game run deeper. . .
  
  There are several methods in which you can engage the game. Through historical campaigns, meeting 
 the edicts by the Senate and reaping the rewards, goal-oriented tasks or Sandbox Mode. Out of what 
 is available, the sandbox mode is the only thing this game has going for it and even then it has 
 quite a few serious blunders.
  
  The campaign mode is very dull and lackluster, next to no excitement or variation of any serious 
 level. It's either defend this, build that or attack them. There is another reviewer of this underdog 
 of a game here on Gamespot which states qualms with the resource management within the game. To 
 this end I have no single complaints. In fact, this is an issue of player competency more than 
 any problem within the game.
  
  However, that very review pointed out a glaring issue that bugs the absolute crap out of me. Within 
 the game, you must maintain a delicate balance of your citizens needs through both resources, luxury 
 items, trade and their environments. This is fine and swell and works out pretty good, pretty good 
 I said. For one specific instances that is a major bone to be picked. If citizens become too poor, 
 you do in fact get a notification of this in the guise of a warning that they may resort to theft 
 or rioting, etc. You can go to their home, and even donate money to that family! So you can stave 
 these riots or fires off. As the other reviewer mentioned, it matters not. . .
  
  You could build the city of cities and the fires at a certain point in the scope of your cities 
 size are simply impossible to stay on top of. The best and only long-term solution is overwhelming 
 your cities with a specific building which employs Praetors to put out fires, catch criminals, 
 etc. 
  
  Imperium Romanum also has a major issue with roads and object placement. It's almost sad how bugged 
 this seems to be. One has to wonder what the developers were not thinking when they played this 
 at it's release stage. Quite a sad item.
  
  For 20$; if you like building nice and pretty cities-worth it. At the current price, no way.
 
  
  A half-thumb up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lenny_ohpop
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow gamespot does not like this game. I quite liked it actually... 
  
  Positive : I've playing for the last 2 days and haven't had a single bug in the game at all. The 
 graphics are nice... and it keeps you doing things... such as expanding, trading, defending, gathering 
 and the alike. The people look good as they roam the streets, picking up goods etc and the amount 
 of things which could be built makes you fell like this is actually a real city. Not the small 
 minded buddings in age of empires say where you build a university and a farm and thats it, you 
 have to build more expanded things such as bakery's, butchers and clothing shops to accompany your 
 linen, wheat and livestock farms.
  
  Negative: Fires, riots and shops telling you they have no clay. These are the only issues i have 
 with this game. when a riot starts because of the lack of wheat and they start lighting fires and 
 you've built a farm and a bakery 5 meters from there houses. Also when this happens, they leave 
 there work... this means you get no income. this means you cant build things which the request to 
 stop them from rioting. 
  
  i would recommend that if there was a new game in the series they should make more of the gameplay 
 centered in conquering places. with armies which are controllable (in a aoe style) as well as a 
 different enemies than barbarians cause thats such a #$# (bad) enemy. Also Building places would 
 of been alot more fun if giant blocks of stone were carried by 10 slaves through the streets of 
 Rome. And staged building because a building dosent magically appear after a while. aswell as things 
 like tax and money to police (theres a name for them which i cant remember) thoses sort governing 
 options which came out of your money every what ever amount of time would be nice. (these are genrel 
 recommendations over all games not just "IR".
  
  
  Overall i liked it more than i hated it, takes a bit to get used to though
  I give it a 7 out 
 of 10
  
  Thanks Gareth somers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garythemessage
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I played for over 3 hours at 1680x1050 with everything maxed, and I mean everything maxed with 
 bloom turned on. I haven't crashed or run into a bug yet. Methinks the Gamespot reviewer has a 
 crappy machine.
  
  This is truly a game built on city building. You can pick scenarios that are nothing but building. 
 It's true that the battling is more of a sideline - I felt like I was playing "Stronghold." If 
 you've ever played that game, Imperium Romanum will seem familiar. Especially with the mining and 
 wall building.
  
  The graphics are pretty decent, but you can't pull the camera back far enough. I would like to 
 have been able to see the city from more of a bird's eye view. You could get a better idea of how 
 you want your city to lay out.
  
  At $40.00 it's a little high priced in my opinion. I'm really not getting the feel that there's 
 a whole lot of new and interesting material here. But I totally disagree with the Gamespot review. 
 My experience is that this game if very stable. I have a XFX GeForce 7950 GT and an AMD 4200+ with 
 2GB RAM. Not that great of a system for today's games, but Imperium Romanum runs very well with 
 my rig.
  
  Bottom line, if you like city building, Rome Style, check this one out. Don't believe the Gamespot 
 review about all the instability. And the graphics are quite nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-1024
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake, this is a remake of Glory of the Roman Empire, a game that I really did not like.
 
  
  But this is a much more polished version of that game, with new graphics to delight the eyes and 
 many fun scenarios to play.
  
  There is a timeline section of the game that takes you through key points in the timeline of history 
 and DOES provide bits of information through the use of it's tablet system, (something I guess 
 Mrs Brett Todd completely missed) .
  
  Overall, the game is much more polished, much more addictive, and much more fun that GotRe ever 
 was. If you hated GotRe, I suggest you download the demo of Imperium Romanum and give it another 
 go. However if you are expecting a RTS game forget about it. It's a solid City Building game with 
 the usual City Building landscape obstacles and as such the military has never played into these 
 CB games much at all. While IR does offer some military against the barbarians, it's very watered 
 down and really not there for any hardcore military action. But if you are a CB gaming junky, then 
 this title might just be for you.
  
  I don't usually comment on reviews but in my opinion, and apparently many peoples opinions across 
 the Internet, the review that Gamespot posted by M. Brett Todd should be pulled, it's trashing 
 a game based on other peoples input and not the reviewers, I'd go as far as to say that Brett should 
 really just be removed from the review staff of Gamespot all together for writing such utter tripe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  The Gamespot review of this game should simply be deleted. NEVER has a reviewer missed the boat, 
 or NOT even played a game, and then be so far off on an assessment of a solid to good city building 
 game.
  
  Imperium Romanum, which is indeed Glory of the Roman Empire 2, is a solid to good (I gave it an 
 8.5 because I truly enjoy it and I need to offset the Gamespot reviews obvious lack of intelligence) 
 but do understand the more worldwide rating of 7.5 or so.
  
  The style is true city builder, where the military is purposefully downplayed as simply a small 
 part of the overall concept of building your city. The economy is oblique in a good way. You HAVE 
 to pay attention to what is going on or you will find yourself in trouble as the goods your citizens 
 need begin to dry up and the good folks go rogue on you. The presentation is outstanding as graphically 
 the game is very pleasing. The build is solid. I have experienced only one crash to desktop in 
 hours of play as I'm nearly through the timeline portion of the game. I have yet to uncover any 
 true gameplay bugs, which is pretty impressive considering the breadth of play in the timeline.
 
  
  The biggest concern for the game is that the online scoring system does not work. It is spotty 
 in uploading scores and a European exploit was discovered too late and a lot of bogus scores are 
 online (but it is EASY to tell which ones they are!) .
  
  All in all, this is pretty much a MUST HAVE for fans of the city building genre and a good place 
 for folks interested in the depth builder games have to offer to start. Highly recommended for 
 fans of Roman history has well because there are wonderful historical tidbits added to the game. 
 As my eight year old son watches me play, he is riveted by the things that are presented in a historical 
 fashion, so as a parent, it also gets a big thumbs up!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  In few words and to the point 
  
  PROS
  - Beautiful Graphics for a City builder
  - Big variety
  - Many modes to play with
  - Easy gameplay
  ----------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------
  CONS
  - Battle system is way simplistic and very poor made
  - System Stability Bugs (some times crashed 
 with my system for no reason... My system does not have problems with my other games)
  - Some gameplay Bugs 
  - Not a challenge for a Pro player
  - Nothing really new
  
  CONCUSSION
 
  
  The game is a good choice if you are a beginner of this genre or if you want a easy game to relax
 
  Also its a good choice for the smaller ages
  
  BUT
  The game is way simplistic and easy for the Professional gamer that will probably make him bored....
 
  It does not provide anything really new to the genre and it is hardly a challenge for a good player
 
  
  As from the battle perspective just forget it...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Rome has always been a imagination point for many city building games. And it is no different for 
 Imperium Romanum. 
  
  My first impression of the game let me to believe that this one unlike previous games such as the 
 Ceacer series, would have more emphasis on warfare. But i was disappointed to find out that it 
 was not.
  
  The game looks great and does give out a very polished up feeling. But it lacks innovation that 
 would shake off that "been there done that" feeling. The lack of a proper campaign and the use 
 of Tablets to give out missions take you away from the real time feeling that all city builders 
 should have. For example a barbarian tribe would not attack your settlement when a a given time 
 has expired. Instead it will attack you when you choose the relevant Tablet.
  
  Keeping the bad points aside Imperium Romanum would be a good game for all newcomers to this genre 
 and would provide a decent level of satisfaction for those who are more experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your the seneat leader of a small roman town. lead it to glory.
  
  Missions: Build your city, make its economy stable and destrory the barbarias.
  
  Controls: 
 Mouse and Keyboard
  
  Features: Fun battles, lots of buildings
  
  A. I.: very smart each villiage has its own commander that has its own fighting style and tottaly 
 learns your every move.
  
  Loading Times: short, usually around 30 seconds when loading into the diffrent scenarios and maps.
 
  
  Graphics: Not bad. Some of the best graphics for a civ type game ive seen. very detaiedl buidlngs 
 and enviroments. each citzen has a diffrent face. even the soldiers swords are detailed down to 
 the handle.
  
  Audio: Amazing. Each civilian has a voice actor of its own. the sounds
  
  Multiplayer: None at all.
  
  Requirements: PC, mouse and keyboard.
  
  The Good: everything 
 about this game is good. its outstanding.
  
  The Bad: lots of glitches. but what game does not have them when they are new?
  
  The Ugly: Nothing
 
  
  Replay Ability: Low
  
  The Bottom Line: The best roman simulation game on the market 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
