-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Imperialism
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/imperialism/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 116 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: Frog City Software
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Imperialism succeeds in creating an engrossing simulation of naked power-mongering. 

 Balance is the key. That's what's most impressive about Imperialism, from SSI and Frog City: the 
 delicate high-wire act of balancing military buildup, diplomacy, expansion, trade relations, and 
 production. There are many successful empire-building games, but Imperialism reduces the concept 
 to its essence - building an empire in the Age of Empire - and in doing so succeeds in creating 
 an engrossing simulation of naked power-mongering. Ah, if only Cecil Rhodes could have lived to 
 see it.  

 Imperialism takes place in the years between 1815 and 1915, when major nations treated minor nations 
 like fruits for the plucking. With "Manifest Destiny" as the rallying cry, England, America, France, 
 Holland, Germany, and Italy established colonies by diplomacy, treachery, or brute force to acquire 
 the precious natural resources and trading partners they needed. Imperialism doesn't deal with 
 anything this specific. Its world is an abstract one of imaginary major and minor nations created 
 on random maps.   

 Each major nation begins with some resources and a few special units that can improve the land. 
 Engineers build a transport network to haul raw materials and goods, prospectors look for precious 
 minerals, miners mine them, farmers, foresters, and ranchers improve production. Land and naval 
 military units protect your holdings and expand your borders. The game is played across a series 
 of screens that access all corners of your burgeoning empire.   

 A stylized main map shows you the whole world, allowing you to move units around to perform various 
 functions. But the real gameplay is executed on four different screens that allow you to tend to 
 economics and diplomacy. Here, you allocate transportation resources to various goods, set production 
 levels, attempt to buy and sell goods, and conduct diplomacy. Each affects the others in a tightly 
 woven set of relationships. For example, you must bring in coal, iron, trees, sheep, and cotton 
 on the transport screen. On the production screen, you use labor, sheep, and cotton to make cloth. 
 You use labor and trees to make lumber. You use coal and iron to make steel. Then you turn the 
 cloth, lumber, and steel into shirts, chairs, and hammers that can be sold to your trading partners 
 for a profit using the trade screen. As new technologies become available, you can also invest 
 in these to improve your efficiency.  

 Of course, the quest for raw materials is never ending, and the interrelationships are complex. 
 Adding more labor, specialists, and military units requires a long chain of goods and production. 
 Any breakdown in the line, and the whole thing grinds to a halt. Adding to the challenge is the 
 fact that you need to nurture relationships with trading partners each turn. This includes building 
 embassies, providing subsidies, paying bribes, forging alliances, and going to war.  

 War itself can be handled either abstractly by the computer, or in a phased tactical combat mode. 
 In tactical combat, you move units across a small map to attack the enemy. Military units develop 
 throughout the ages, moving from minutemen and skirmishers to machine gunners and rangers. As a 
 tactical combat game, it's slight, but interesting enough to add some spice to the relentless economics 
 of the rest of the game. A few more tactical maps would make battles more interesting.  

 The more bloodthirsty empire builder will find that Imperialism's extended economic model might 
 not be enough for him. Of course, this doesn't mean the game can be played as an isolationist or 
 pacifist. This is Imperialism, where the weak are crushed, and good riddance to them.  

 Some little bugs have crept into the final code, and I had to play with my drivers so that the game 
 would stop crashing. A list of all your units is desperately needed, so that you can check on their 
 status and jump to them easily. There's a bit of a mid-game slump, where it seems like all you 
 do is twiddle with trade and try to expand industry. I also found that at one point, everyone in 
 the game waged war on me in the same turn because I hadn't built up a strong enough military. That 
 didn't strike me as particularly real, since most were already fighting with each other.   

 But, in the end, the damn thing is so addicting that I just played and played, when I should have 
 been writing this review. The AI is good and aggressive, and Internet play appears stable. The 
 most striking thing is the way all the disparate elements integrate and interplay, coming together 
 in one fluid gaming experience that empire wonks will find a refreshing change of pace.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Snuff-A-Luff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Imperialism is a game of running a nineteenth century country and attempting to completely control 
 the world. The game is extremely complicated and difficult. Imperialism combines diplomacy, economical, 
 and military affairs into an entire game.
  
  Imperialism is a truly impressive game. It has a fairly decent set of graphics, especially for 
 its time and era. It entirely sucks you into its massive gameplay and has a massive replay value. 
 This game is one that even a decade after its creation, I sit down and play it much more then some 
 of my more recent games. 
  
  Imperialism has a field of military and economical power, but in the game, to be successful, you 
 have to almost entirely work on economical and diplomatic relations in order to win the game. Global 
 conquest be force has to many negative downfalls within the game for it to prove any large worth. 
 The game would be a massive success on multi-player, but in my multiple years of playing, I have 
 only once found someone online to play half a game with. 
  
  Even through all of the games brilliance, I have two problems with it. I did not like the time 
 limit of when it ends, one-hundred years after you begin the game, and the game's sound. It is 
 not very interesting and is extremely repetitive.
  
  Taking this all into account, i believe the game deserves a 9.5. It is a very amusing game, and 
 keeps me interested, from start to finish. I recommend this game to everyone who owns a computer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  One of the best strategy games ever made, Imperialism is the rare turn-based game that strikes 
 a near-perfect balance between economics, diplomacy, and military action set in a fictitious 19th 
 century world. As in the real world, success depends on the ability to manage the economics -- 
 you cant drive a war machine for long without a robust economy under the hood. Different natural 
 resources -- foodstuffs, iron, coal, timber and cotton -- are essential for fueling the empire, 
 for creating the trade goods, and arms necessary for Military. Extracting these resources and maximizing 
 your production is as involving and as challenging as anything this side of Capitalism; and while 
 that may not be everyones cup of tea, Imperialism treats its subject with such care and detail 
 that hard-core strategy gamers cant help but be delighted.
  
  Before judging sounds and graphics; consider how old the game is, (1997) and you will say its definitely 
 a revolutionary piece of game precious from head to toe .
  
  The best thing is, the game is abandonware now, meaning you can have it free as her creators abandoned 
 it and its sold nowhere execpt some old used game dealers.
  
  The worst thing is, there is only 1 patch released for this diamond which resolves 95% of bugs 
 and game flaws yet there is still bugs (remember 5%) and can be frustrating sometimes.
  
  I'll try to resolve the game into pros and cons as usual;
  
  PROS;
  + Superb game structure 
 and interface. Does not bog you down with micromanagement.
  + Excellent balanced values and gameplay. Offers Comprehensive industry model with plain controls.
 
  + Clearly gives the feeling of the struggle for power era. Also simulates the exact notion of 
 Minor nations and major nation roles at that time (as well as current time) by means of understanding 
 the history.
  + Fantastic replay value. As there are tons of maps, scenarios and fan made mods over internet.
 
  + One more turn... one more turn kind of addiction.
  
  CONS;
  -Outdated graphics and sounds.
  -Game music requires original CD.
  -No more Patches released 
 after v1.1 and there is still bugs left to handle.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  It is a must have, a masterpiece for the fans of this genre. Also let me mention that Imperialism-1 
 is definitely better than its sequel Imperialism-2 . The closest in satisfaction is Europa Universalis 
 and and for sci-fi Master of Orion-2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dommu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Beginner Players who've played games were you control your country and make its government and 
 control wars, alliances, pacts, and empires will love the game, but if you become really good and 
 survive for almost the whole game you'll realize after about 400 turns, the game ends just like 
 that the best nation being the winning. But It Come with 3 scenarios with are a even bigger disapointment, 
 they have just about no story line and just about no point its just like another random map just 
 your playing on Europe, which is nothing great considering its the exact same thing, Overall if 
 you look at when the game was made (9 years ago) I thought well the graphics and gameplay are really 
 good considering how old the game is, Overall I say its a game worth buying But, no more then 20 
 $ for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paraskos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Imperialism can be rated as one of the most stimulating, realistic strategy games to date. It rates 
 very highly along with other games such as the Civiilization genre and Hearts of Iron/Universalis. 
 The differences are that it is not as complicated to play and does not require as much micromanagement 
 as the other two.
  
  Imperialism is obviously the first of the 2 games - Imperialism 2 is similar in some ways but different 
 in others. It is based during the period from the early 1800s to the early 1900s. You must obtain 
 a two thirds majority of the vote in the Council Elections held every few years, to win the game. 
 This can be achieved by ruling two thirds of the world with your military might or via diplomatic 
 channels.
  
  The game requires choosing a nation to manage. Each nation has a capital and is divided into provinces. 
 There are 6 other major nations and many minor nations. You are responsible for finding resources 
 that will be necessary for development of everything the nation requires, from lumbar to fabric 
 to steel. All resources must be connected to the capital via a transport network. These resources 
 are crucial for the development of all necessary commodities, some of which i have listed above. 
 Food, ofcourse, is on the list of important items and this can be divided into cattle, wheat, fish 
 and fruit.
  
  Along with building the infrastructure of your nation, you must also build a sizeable army and 
 navy to mount military attacks and defend when necessary. The list of military units is extremely 
 diverse but relevant to the era. You can actually manage the military attacks. This is one of the 
 most satisfying parts of the game as it requires a similar approach as what the generals of that 
 period had to adopt.
  
  The Diplomatic aspect of the game is also crucial. You must trade with other nations to gain there 
 support and trust as this will help you in the Council Elections which ultimately decide whether 
 you win or not. Buying and selling on the international market has and always will be an important 
 structural component of a nations economic wellbeing. Imperialism succeeds in emulating this and 
 the success or failure of your nation is greatly affected if you are unable to remain competitive 
 in this area.
  
  The graphics are quite simple, but I don't think this should play a major role. The Sound effects 
 are perfect for the game. You will appreciate hearing the sound of metal casting when placing orders 
 in the Steel Mill and also appreciate hearing the sound of horses when ordering a Rancher to improve 
 on a Ranch of Horses. You shouldn't have any problems with gameplay. 
  
  If you are able to find this game on net, do not hesitate in obtaining a copy. You will not be 
 disappointed. The only problem is that it requires Windows 98 or 95 to run. 
  
  Imperialism 2 can run on Windows XP or Home. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 14, 2004 7:31 am PT
Review:  In this game, you control a country. You develope its infrastructure, manage its production and 
 trade, build up its armies, and conduct both war and diplomacy. All of these areas are pretty easy 
 to understand and work well. If you have, lets say, a flock of sheep in your country, then you 
 can build a farm over it and this produces wool. You can either sell the wool or turn it into fabric. 
 You can either sell the fabric or use it in production of other things like ships. You can attack 
 bordering countries, or conduct amphibious landings, if you have a large enough navy. Battles are 
 easy to manage and are very simplistic in there presentation. You have a great deal of free reign 
 in this game, which I like. However, it's not perfect. The biggest letdown of the game is its time 
 limit. I HATE TIME LIMITS! Once the clock reaches a certain year, the game ends and the most "dominating" 
 country in the game is selected as the winner, although this doesn't seem to be the case all the 
 time. Another thing, this game isn't meant to be pretty, just playable. There is nothing special 
 in the game with reguards to graphics or sound effects. Gameplay is the key to this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
