-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Imperium Galactica II - Alliances
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/imperiumgalactica2alliances/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 26, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 375 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Digital Reality
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Apr 10, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Not only does it look good and play well, but it also succeeds at creating a unique universe, featuring 
 eight interesting races. 

 Imperium Galactica II is a highly enjoyable science-fiction real-time strategy game of conquest 
 and exploration that excels in its presentation and interface design, as well as in the quality 
 of its single-player scenarios. The game is innovative and good-looking, and it provides many hours 
 of fun. But it has a broad scope, and as such, Imperium Galactica II could have been handled better 
 in particular areas. Still, the game's strong points easily overshadow these shortcomings.   

 
  Imperium Galactica II features an interface that lets you manage complicated tasks simply and 
 quickly. Specifically, its presentation of pertinent information eliminates many of the tedious 
 aspects of maintaining an empire, and it provides a template for incorporating many options and 
 features while keeping them manageable. For example, essential information about the planets under 
 your control - such as population, growth rate, and production status - is clearly displayed in 
 thumbnail windows. These can be expanded to provide more detailed information such as income, tax 
 rate, and morale. Finally, you can zoom down to the surface to make more specific changes to the 
 colony's auto-build. With this hierarchy of information, you can control your empire more efficiently 
 and concentrate on more important matters.   

  The interface also has a stylish presentation. The research menu displays a rotating wireframe 
 of your project gradually becoming more defined as you progress in its development. When you select 
 an agent from the spying menu, you'll see an animated sequence zoom in to show that agent's profile 
 and statistics. The game's attention to aesthetic detail makes it more enjoyable to play overall. 
   

  Imperium Galactica II's combat interface is similarly user-friendly, as it provides a simple options 
 console that contains rotate, zoom, and scroll keys surrounding a perspective-oriented minimap. 
 There's also a time bar, so you can pause to queue up orders as well as speed up the fight when 
 victory is assured. Moreover, before entering a space battle, you can group your fleet into one 
 of ten formations. This option facilitates strategy because it decreases the time required to execute 
 such tactics as flanking, escorting, surrounding, feinting, and full frontal assault and instead 
 lets you focus on performing these sorts of maneuvers rather than merely setting them up. As a 
 result, the battles can be more exciting because you can implement dynamic ship maneuvers and tactics 
 easily.   

  Early in Imperium Galactica II, battles involve dozens of fighters and a few destroyers or corvettes. 
 Fighters cannot be micromanaged well, so these types of skirmishes are more fun to watch than to 
 play. Midway through the game, battles become more involving and exciting. In this stage of the 
 game, you have large capital-ship technology but relatively mediocre beam weapons. Consequently, 
 strategy is largely based on attacking and defending against crude but powerful torpedoes. Of course, 
 you can install more powerful beam weapons on your ship, but the slow fire rate will significantly 
 decrease your ability to defend against fighters.   

  For example, an effective strategy when attacking an enemy fleet of battleships with cruisers and 
 destroyers is to first set the fleet formation to flank. You then queue your cruisers to zigzag 
 to avoid the battleships' torpedoes and let your ships attack with their lasers. Meanwhile, you 
 send your destroyers to launch their own torpedoes point blank to the enemies. If the enemy fleet 
 turns to deal with the destroyers, the enemy should be occupied long enough for your cruisers to 
 turn and accurately torpedo the battleships. If the enemy stays with the cruisers, the more maneuverable 
 destroyers should achieve a good number of hits.   

  When defending against large numbers of fighters with capital ships, you can group your ships into 
 a sphere to concentrate the laser fire. You can also escort your fleet with a small group of fighters 
 to draw fire and cause the attacking fighters to miss more.   

  Unfortunately, strategy is minimal later in the game. When every race is attacking each other with 
 battleships and mobile bases, there is no reason to move - your ships will fire with greater frequency 
 and accuracy if they remain motionless. There is no reason to zigzag, because more advanced torpedoes 
 track their targets effortlessly. Building destroyer- and corvette-class ships is rarely time-efficient 
 or cost-effective, because they cannot house enough firepower, and enemy battleships and cruisers 
 can destroy them in a few shots. Moreover, fighters are ineffective against any ship larger than 
 a heavy corvette, so they are effectively phased out.   

  However, when your ships are still, you have time to observe and appreciate the game's excellent 
 graphics. All the vessels are detailed and well designed. The only shortcoming is the lack of ship 
 animation; the ships have no origin of fire, such as a turret, torpedo tube, or laser bank - instead, 
 all weapon effects manifest themselves some distance away from the hull. Ships explode dramatically, 
 but there's no indication like flames or electrical discharges when they're damaged. Shields aren't 
 animated either, as they're represented only as a colored bar above the unit. Lastly, the variation 
 in gunfire effects is minimal. Different guns may shoot different-colored beams of different lengths, 
 but none of them are particularly impressive. For instance, the quad laser doesn't actually shoot 
 four lasers, and even if you install four quad lasers you'll still see one beam onscreen.   

  The ground battles look a little more detailed - tanks with rocket turrets look different from 
 those with cannon turrets, for example. However, unlike in space conflicts, in ground battles the 
 side with the greater number of units most often decides the battle. You can choose the location 
 of your drop zone, but you cannot set the aggressiveness of your tanks or employ formations. As 
 a result, complex maneuvers, such as those you would expect in any real-time strategy game, are 
 difficult and often impractical.    

 Still, Imperium Galactica II does present other options than just destroying the defending tanks 
 and gun emplacements. For example, you can destroy undefended factories and power plants to cripple 
 the enemy planet's production, and then retreat. You can also destroy enough power plants to deactivate 
 the defending laser fortresses, then commence your attack.   

  Not only does Imperium Galactica II look good and play well, but it also succeeds at creating a 
 unique universe, featuring eight interesting races. Within each campaign, multiple side-missions 
 are randomly generated. For example, leaders will often ask you to take sides in a war. A newly 
 discovered civilization will ask you for asylum from their oppressors, while the oppressors will 
 offer you a reward if you eliminate the defectors for them. These side-missions are fun, but unfortunately 
 they rarely affect your empire significantly. They only serve to make the game more interesting 
 and provide a way to earn a few thousand more credits in reward money. Nevertheless, these missions 
 help reduce the generally repetitive nature of having to maintain your empire, just as they increase 
 the game's replay value.   

  The video sequences are another good feature of Imperium Galactica II's campaigns. The characters 
 are well rendered, and they have expressive body language along with excellent voice-acting. You 
 meet multiple interesting characters from side missions, but most originate from your large complement 
 of advisors, such as your fleet admiral, tank commanders, scientists, and planetary governors. 
 You can even interview mercenaries as candidates to command your fleet, and you can ask them about 
 their background, skills, and desired salary.   

  As for the campaigns themselves, they let you play as three different races: the Solarians, Kra'hen, 
 and Shinari, which represent the archetypes of being good, evil, and greedy, respectively. The 
 human, or Solarian, campaign, deals with retrieving data crystals that may contain information 
 that could make the Solarian Empire invincible. The sole objective of the Kra'hen campaign is for 
 the Kra'hen to expand their empire and kill all those who oppose. Lastly, the Shinari is a merchant 
 race that seeks to exploit the other civilizations to make profit. Imperium Galactica II also has 
 several dynamic scenarios that explore specific conflicts of all the game's eight races. They don't 
 provide much information about the races, but they are both exciting and challenging to play.  

  Indeed, the campaign and scenarios provide few insights about your race and other races' identity, 
 history, or nature. This is especially disappointing since the races seem so intriguing. The manual 
 gives brief descriptions of each, but you'll learn little else after the campaign is completed. 
 For example, a race called the Toluen are described as being the result of failed genetic experiments, 
 resulting in an unnatural oversecretion of pheromones. The consequences are obvious, as the manual 
 humorously presents them as ambulatory blobs with tentacles. We learn why and by whom the Toluen 
 were created, but learn nothing of their culture, achievements, or history.   

  Similarly, the designers provided each race with unique ship designs, but they failed to provide 
 the races with unique buildings or technologies. No race-specific technologies, ships, or tanks 
 exist. Furthermore, all eight technology trees are identical and linear. As a result, no major 
 research decisions are required, which diminishes the game's replay value.   

  It's equally disappointing that your diplomacy options are limited and identical for each race. 
 For example, you can only ask your enemy to make peace through one short statement, and each race 
 will ask you for peace using that same statement. There is no race-specific dialogue or typeface 
 for the onscreen text.   

  Combat chatter also suffers from the same deficiencies. It is repetitive, as it's the same for 
 all units and not race-specific. Furthermore, the chatter is often inaccurate or inapplicable. 
 Your fleet will often report that an enemy ship or tank is listing, even though such a description 
 is irrelevant in zero gravity and meaningless when referring to land vehicles. Your ships will 
 often report "We think we're gonna die" even when the enemy has no chance of success. And upon 
 victory, your ships will shout "Who's the daddy?" instead of using the proper expression.   

  While these shortcomings are significant, they should be taken more as wasted opportunities than 
 as flaws. In spite of them, Imperium Galactica II should prove be extremely entertaining for fans 
 of real-time strategy or other space conquest games, because it provides an exciting depth of play 
 thanks to its many well-developed features, as well as its great graphics and campaigns.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lordmarkitgs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Hello,
  
  Imperium galactica is one of my favourite games. Yes its fairly old, but still it retains its dominance.
 
  
  If anyone doesn't have this game, i recomend getting it, even today.
  
  Single Player - single missions are awesome, there's a variety of things to do and each on its 
 own difficulty level
  
  Campaing - You may play one of 3 important races to succeed in galactic dominance. Each team has 
 its own rare events, game story line (this is what i love so much about the game, it has a story 
 line!!!) and alliances etc. You can even marry a pirates daughter to assist you!
  
  Gameplay - You can build on every single one of your planets. Each planet has a different terrain, 
 which can be transformed; and this may inhibit or increase your growth rate. Defences can be built 
 on each planet, including ground fortresses, or planetary guns to stop spaceships even deploying 
 tanks. You may research new buildings to create, and these include a large variation. Also!! you 
 can build alot of buildings on each planet, the graphics are good and you can easily see whats 
 happening. There is an auto-build tool, whereby the planet will automatically build in a way you 
 ask it to.
  
  You may colonise new planets using colonisatoin ships, or by attacking an enemy planet, and thus 
 declaring war. You may also attack pirates etc. If your planet is under attack, you may defend 
 it with ground fortresses and ground tanks, (which you may reserach a variety of types, and design 
 them with different turrets/ abilities you have researched, including air strikes, radar jammer, 
 anti-tank guns etc) , you may also research spaceships, and spaceships may be designed for special 
 purposes. With a large variety of shields, torpedos, bombs, lasers, cargo, computer technology. 
 There is just such a massive range of things to do, and you may also use fighter jets which attack 
 in massive numbers and can only be killed by laser guns. It is also important to note, you may 
 build a self-destruct on a planet, and also a planetary shield (which assits your planetary guns 
 when fighting off an assault) l, and the self-destruct completely blows up every building, and every 
 tank on the planetary surface, so they don't get the civilisation you built and they lose their 
 army too.
  
  Each race has its own unique abilities, and you may also ally with opponents, or complete many 
 other tasks through diplomacy; which is great because it adds an extra feel to the game. If diplomacy 
 fails you, you can send in spys to either obtain plans for researched items, incite revolts, counter 
 intellegence, or assasinate a faction leader, amongst other thing. you can also construct spy satelites 
 to spy on enemy bases. Although these may be destroyed by planetary guns or spacestations (orbit 
 planets as defensive measures) . If you catch an enemy spy you can either kill him, release him 
 or make him a double spy, whereby he informs you of enemy plans etc, but sometimes they betray 
 you depending on their loyalty level. There is also skill levels in many areas, such as combat, 
 infiltration etc and these determine a spys level of success.
  
  Space battles have good graphics and you have a high level of control, being able to chose a formation, 
 pause or speed up a battle. You may also click on single ships to chose indepenent targets and 
 disable certain weapons, or allow all your weapons to be fired at once.
  
  As i've said, i love this game, the amount of things you can do is endless; it is far better than 
 other modern games i have been seeing, as games aren't just about the graphics, its about gameplay 
 too. From this last statement, do not assume the graphics are bad, they are infact very very good; 
 whoever made this game is a genious, and it actually fits onto 4 CD-roms. I believe there is an 
 imperium galactica 3, but i still must check out this game before i can say anything about it. 
 I did try the demo, and i felt imperium galactica 2 was better.
  
  Negative aspects of the game:
  
  Multiplayer is fairly hard to do. You cannot save games and 
 the game is on a fix speed rate of either 1, which is very slow, or 3 which is very fast. However, 
 you can chose to be any race which is very very interesting. If you have 10 hours spare time, sure 
 you can get a full game in maybe, but try not to leave ur computer or when you come back you'll 
 probably have lost alot of planets.
  
  There is a limited number of scenarios, so once you've played them all (about 12 i think) , you 
 may get bored. However, you also have the campaigns to play, and since there are random events, 
 its pretty much never the same twice round.
  
  Good luck, if you chose to buy this game, and remember, your allies CANNOT be trusted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinceklosters
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for hours at a time and when I saw the clock saying nappy-time I still continued 
 back when I was younger. The graphics were truly exhilerating for its time, together with the mixture 
 of alien races and strategic differences.
  
  The gameplay itself was and still is great. Designing and naming your own ships, upgrading them 
 with the newest technology and having the edge over your opponent because of it is simply satisfying. 
 The single-player campaign has a general storyline to which you are advised to adhere, but the 
 game itself allows you to choose your own planets to colonize and develop in your own way. Choose 
 either the scientifically-advanced Solarians, the diplomatically adept Shinari or the militaristic 
 Kra'Hen and attempt to conquer the galaxy in different ways. The campaigns are different enough 
 to each provide a huge load of fun, and even attempting a second campaign with the same race yields 
 satisfying results and different random events which lead you into sub-plots. Overall the gameplay 
 is great, the only negative point is that once you have a huge armada you won't be able to see 
 it. The ships will simply be stacked into one single ship; i. e. 4 battleships in 1 battleship onscreen 
 hereby quadrupling your firepower. This has no impact on the game itself, but it is less satisfying 
 than seeing huge amounts of ships exploding. Another point which gives the player a satisfying 
 immersion into the game are the graphics. They're simply great, even now I find them good enough. 
 Back when the game was released I was stunned my 16MB Graphics Card could put THAT on the screen! 
 The colonies look great, and the starmap gives a good feeling of having a real Empire/Commonwealth/Whatever. 
 The only small negative remark is that the buildings and ground units have the same textures for 
 each race, which is a pity. The combat vessels in space each have different shapes and therefore 
 give one a more distinguished feel for each race. I found the sound to be somewhat dissappointing 
 compared to the rest of the game. Still adequate, but not more than that. The music is good enough, 
 but the patterns of We're listing, Sir and the Kra'Hen battlecry Slen'Kla are still engraved into 
 my brain. Not bad, but could be more diverse, although I have always been critical of lack of inventive 
 audio in any game so far. Overall this game provides countless hours of trying out different approaches 
 to conquering the galaxy via either alliances (hence the name) or true military conquest. The ultimate 
 goal of the quite interesting storyline ends the campaign in a relatively satisfying way, although 
 you'd wish you could do more with that huge economy you've built up and the gargantuan armada you've 
 churned out. Overall a great game, if you like 4X/Space strategy games with a large scope but simple 
 setup and enjoyable empire-building; certainly try this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander515
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  I had never played or even heard of the first Imperium Galactica until after I had played the second 
 game. Needless to say I was (and still am) disappointed that Digital Reality never made an Imperium 
 Galactica III, because IG2 is one of my favorite '4x' space games, one that I still play to this 
 day. /
  Imperium Galactica II can be a difficult game to master, though its not particularly hard to learn 
 how to play it. The three difficulty settings scale up fairly well, with Easy mode good for learning 
 how to play successfully, the Medium setting providing a challenge assuming you've learned the 
 ropes, and the Hard mode being, well, just plain... hard. /
  Almost everything about IG2 seems innovative or unexpected when you look at it. First of all, this 
 game isn't turn-based. It's real-time, although thankfully you can pause and still give orders 
 at any time. Trade income is not an abstract system established between empires; instead, you build 
 special structures that attract and generate money from the neutral trader vessels that roam the 
 skies. There is only one real 'resource', which is money, although you also need workers to man 
 all of the various colony buildings that make up your infrastructure. Everything costs money, even 
 research, and the only other limit on what you can research is how many research centers you build 
 - there are no research points.
  /
  The most compelling thing about IG2 is its campaign mode. Each of the three main races in the game 
 has its own story-driven campaign, replete with random events that act alot like quests. The interesting 
 thing about it is that each race's campaign covers only a single facet of the central story, giving 
 a player an incentive to play all three races in order to learn everything. This for me was the 
 coolest thing about IG2, as most other '4x' games are purely player action-driven. Having things 
 like random events, disasters, pirates that actually pose a threat, and hireable mercenary fleets 
 add alot of flavor to an otherwise bland universe. Better yet, the five additional 'minor' races 
 are out there as well in the Campaign Mode, and the Skirmish Mode added in a later patch allows 
 you to play as any of the eight races, Main or Minor, although there aren't any of the random events. 
 /
  Espionage also adds some minor RPG elements, since each one of your spies has an individual starting 
 level and gains experience points as they carry out missions, which allows them to level up and 
 gives them three points that you can then distribute amongst their five different skills. The range 
 of missions is very comprehensive, from training missions to counterintelligence to full-blown 
 political assassination. /
  We can only imagine what Imperium Galactica III could have been like, but the good news is that 
 IG2 is still very playable and very enjoyable, which is what replay value is all about. This is 
 a game that you can play again and again, because the mix of colony building, fleet construction, 
 economic balancing and management, diplomacy, espionage and combat gives you alot of options depending 
 on what race you choose to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Here I been trying to get this game to run again in Windows 98SE, afterall I remember the game 
 when I had Windows 98FE, and even Windows 95. By the way Microsoft, do I get my money back for 
 Windows 98FE. Probably not, eh!
  But still with the patch, this game (although for some reason I can not go above 640 x 480 32bit 
 color mode like before) , the game is still working better than ever. Well, okay may need a slightly 
 different version of the Bink file, since the movies may want to stutter a little.
  
  Oh, ya, some may say that the game is dated. But did you ever look at the specs for this game? 
 It would play in a 32mB computer, and that is why it still is Great, as Tony the Tiger might say. 
 Sure 128mB is better, but than Windows XP takes that much so better say 256mB, and just to be sure 
 512mB, or up to 1gB for games this day and age. But what do the new games really offer, besides 
 not much difference in graphics? Well, I sure that some offer or must offer something. But everytime 
 I have played this game, I still marvel at the graphics produced back for this game in the year 
 2000. And the game still Shines even compared to games out nowadays. Sure it used some text for 
 some menu items, but when the specs are viewed, a player still may Wonder how in the heck did they 
 fit all of this into a game, when nowadays, more attention is given to graphics, but still, this 
 game of Imperium Galactica II still out does these new games.
  
  Who's the Daddy?
  Who's the Mommy?
  Who in the Heck is that Odd-Looking Spacealien?
  
  With the story intertwined 
 within the game in the Campaign and even without in the Skimish add-on Scenario later, a player 
 still can get a feeling of being in a different Universe, in the year 2327 to start with, and have 
 fun developing the story within playing this game.
  
  All Genetics besides, it still is just a fun game to play!
  The 4 CD's of the game still have 
 not worn out, so in the Drive they go, especially since it works better in Windows 2K with the 
 patch then it did back in the beginning when the game originally came out. This game is a Must 
 Have Classic Game, like some other games - XCOM to name one game.
  
  So hop up your genetics and hope you don't end up being an experiment to another SpaceAlien Species 
 someday!
  Yeah ~~~~~~~~ !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  I rushed out and bought this game many years ago and could not wait to get home to install it and 
 begin to play it. I was so excited that I nearly creamed my car when pulling into the driveway. 
 I dashed into the house, warmed up the old blue box PC and ripped the install CD out of the rather 
 large CD jewel case and eqarly hit INSTALL.
  
  I then never played the game.
  
  I don't know what happened to be honest with you. I ran through the tutorials and was very interested 
 in the game but something happened while I was playing the tutorials, I lost interest in the game. 
 Completely. 
  
  Years later I re-installed the game to give it a shot and was somewhat dissappointed by it. By 
 then I had been playing SEIV Gold for a few years and found that the dept of game play in IGII 
 was just not there. Albeit the game had some rather fantastic features that dominated SEIV Gold, 
 but when it came down to the game play the game simply just did not have it. It was dated both 
 graphically, and conceptually. Again though certain aspects, the 3d battle, the ground combat, 
 ship design, and other things really set the bar high for any game to follow it, but over all the 
 game itself was a let down. : (
  
  Now don't get me wrong, it was a good game, I was just one of the few who simply found it to be 
 lacking in the areas that I did not want it to be lacking in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  I don't think anyone can hate this game. It's just amazing. 
  
  The graphic is really great but most important is that the gameplay is one of the best I have ever 
 experienced. The story in the campaign mode is also interesting and the whole game is just addictive.
 
  
  Even now, many years after its release I Still play it. The cool thing with this game is that it's 
 not turned-based so you actually feel like you are the commander of a whole empire. And you can't 
 relax you need to be alert all the time. 
  
  To play this game you need to be able to think logical. During the campaign many different hard 
 tasks will come up (like pirates and exploding planets) and you always have to think of new ways 
 to conquer the space. Will there ever be a Space strategy game as good as this again? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  This game takes time to learn, ages to master. 
  I found it difficult to start, how to gain more credits, but as you gain more planets more credit 
 you get!
  
  The game is slow to start, but as you get into it and gain more planets the game gets more interesting. 
 As you meet other races and start using your agents to infiltrate other empires and learn more 
 about them. you see a small star map getting larger.
  
  The graphics of the game is extremely great highly detailed. there could be more sound to the other 
 races when doing diplomacy!
  
  The game is well worth the money, I hope they actually do an Imperium Galactica III 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerkhan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  With so much in this game covering al three sides with diplomacy, war, and researching. This game 
 takes the cake overall with the ability to not only build on the exterior for space conquest but 
 also on the ground when it comes to new buildings or advancement. The only thing I'd like to see 
 better with the overall gameplay for this one would have to have been the smartness not of the 
 AI but of what you tell the people to do on the planets you own. Such as not the taxing but if 
 the planet needed more housing yet it's set to research houses will still be built. Housing and 
 planet care should always be automatic or maybe allow more than one priority or an ordered priority. 
 but when it comes to computer AI, I think the games greatest feature has to be when all the researching 
 for all races is done all 8 has an advantage and disadvantage over all others. Kra'hen build war 
 no diplomacy, or humans fastest researchers. Overall this game always provides hours of gameplay 
 and for lan it still rivals on some of the best competitive gameplay you could possibly hope for. 
 I do hope in the next version that's on it's way has more things to do even more than what this 
 one has. I do hope either the buildings become smaller or the planet larger too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
