-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Imperial Glory
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/imperialglory/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Picturesque 3D land and naval battles.
 Rich diplomacy system.
 Enjoyable, if slow, turn-based strategy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Land battles lack epic feel.
 Lack of morale system creates unrealistic results.
 Naval battles tough to coordinate.
 Only five historical battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,030 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pyro Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     May 17, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Imperial Glory is a good Total War clone that packs a lot of unfulfilled potential. 

  Imperial Glory is a game that wants to be the next Total War. Not that there's anything wrong with 
 that. After all, Creative Assembly's popular strategy franchise has gotten bigger and better with 
 every release. However, in copying the formula of Total War, Pyro Studios, the designers of Imperial 
 Glory, have missed the small nuances and details that made the Total War games, in particular Medieval 
 and Rome, something special. That leaves Imperial Glory feeling very much like an uneven first 
 step, which is a pity, because it does have a lot of promise.  

          The turn-based portion of Imperial Glory is slow-paced, but enjoyable, as you try to conquer 
 Europe.     

  In Imperial Glory, you can control one of the five principal European powers of the Napoleonic 
 Wars: France, the United Kingdom, Prussia, Austria, and Russia. While there are about a dozen other 
 minor countries in the game, such as Portugal and Denmark, you aren't able to play as them. However, 
 you can assimilate them into your empire, through conquest or peaceful integration, and that's 
 pretty much what you'll spend much of the game doing as you attempt to conquer Europe nation by 
 nation. Following the Total War formula means that you spend a lot of time on a strategic, turn-based 
 map that looks a bit like the board game Risk. And when armies meet, you have the option of letting 
 the computer automatically calculate the results, or you can drop down into a real-time, 3D battlefield 
 and control your various infantry, artillery, and cavalry battalions on the map. Imperial Glory 
 also goes one better than Total War by including naval battles, so you can take your sloops and 
 frigates into action.  

  That all sounds good, but in practice it turns out that Imperial Glory finds itself lacking in 
 many departments. The turn-based strategy section is perhaps the best part of the game, and it 
 can be an enjoyable, although very slow-paced, affair. Your challenges will vary, depending on 
 the nation you choose to play as. France perhaps has the easiest road to travel, whereas Prussia 
 and Austria find themselves surrounded on three sides by three very menacing empires. The United 
 Kingdom, on the other hand, can afford to sit back safely behind the Royal Navy, though it has 
 trouble generating the production and population that the other empires can. Russia is huge, but 
 it's stuck on the outskirts of Europe.  

  As a strategy game, Imperial Glory, for the most part, captures the diplomatic balancing act that 
 was the Napoleonic Wars. In order not to be swept into the dustbin of history by its neighbors, 
 nations formed varying coalitions to try to stave off this threat (namely France) . And this is 
 something that you'll spend a lot of time doing, thanks to the full-featured diplomatic system 
 that lets you grant rights of passage, loan armies, form defensive alliances as well as coalitions, 
 and even marry off a prospective heir to another heir to improve relations. However, the peaceful 
 route can be a bit frustrating, as you can easily spend years and thousands of resources to improve 
 relations with a country to the point that it's almost ready to join your empire, only to see a 
 rival empire simply invade and take it over. This makes diplomacy a fairly weak option in the game, 
 as it's far less effective than simple force.  

  There are four resources in the game: gold, production, population, and food, and each province 
 in the game is capable of generating a certain amount of each resource. A province's resource production 
 can be enhanced by researching new technologies and building new structures (or, in the case of 
 gold, creating land and sea trade routes) . Still, when you get down to it, you'll eventually face 
 a bottleneck in a certain resource. The easiest way to solve this, though, is through expanding 
 your empire.  

          The quest is an interesting feature, and it gives you some goals to aim for. Often, the 
 rewards are worth it, too.     

  Imperial Glory also introduces an interesting quest system, which is sort of like the great wonders 
 found in Civilization. Your nation can lay claim to some of the great achievements of the era, 
 such as unearthing the Rosetta stone and building the first major railroad network, by fulfilling 
 a list of prerequisites. For example, the quest for the Rosetta stone will require you to establish 
 a sea link to Alexandria, as well as to commit several light infantry units and warships. However, 
 if you manage to do the quest first, you get a boost in your technological research, reflecting 
 the burst of scientific knowledge that resulted in that important artifact being discovered. However, 
 the game lacks other features that are found in other strategy games. For instance, there are no 
 random events to shake things up a bit, nor do there seem to be any efforts to take the rest of 
 the world into account. The result is that, once the alliance system locks into place, not a lot 
 happens over long stretches of the game.     

  Unfortunately, the real-time battles are one of the game's biggest weaknesses. This is a pity, 
 since they could have been a great strength, especially considering how Napoleonic-era tactics 
 lend themselves well to the 3D engine. First of all, you never really get a true sense of epic 
 scale, as what are supposed to be battalions and regiments look like companies on the screen. Hence, 
 what should be titanic battles with up to six armies on the screen instead feel like small skirmishes. 
 This is especially disappointing, as the latest Total War game had no trouble in putting thousands, 
 and even tens of thousands, of men onscreen at a time.  

          Land battles are a mess, thanks to the lack of morale. These cavalrymen and soldiers will 
 hack away at each other until one side is completely dead. Historically, battles of annihilation 
 are extremely rare.     

  However, the battle system's biggest problem is that it doesn't model morale. This means that your 
 men basically turn into mindless automatons, and not very smart ones, either. You'll see battalions 
 literally stand their ground as they're annihilated, and they won't even panic if flanked on both 
 sides. They'll take withering losses and won't blink. This takes the realism out of the battles. 
 Even worse, it negates things that should be assets. For example, you'll obtain lots of resources 
 building up expensive artillery, only to see the artillery pieces easily wiped out by a charge 
 of suicidal cavalry. And one of the purposes of artillery is to shatter the other side's unit cohesion 
 and will to fight, but that is lost in the game, as well.  

  Naval battles don't fare well, either. In general, the ideas behind naval combat are great. Taking 
 the wind into mind, you must maneuver your wooden ships to best fire broadside upon the enemy. 
 These broadside attacks can range from regular cannonballs, grapeshots to shred enemy sailors, 
 and chain shots to shred enemy sails. While one-on-one battles are fairly straightforward, trying 
 to coordinate two or more ships in combat against two or more enemy ships gets to be even more 
 complicated and difficult. Basically, you just have too much to manage on your hands. It doesn't 
 help that the camera is finicky and that it's far too easy to lose your orientation because the 
 wind is causing the camera to spin around. Nor does it help that the oceanic battlefields feel 
 small, which means that it's easy to have a ship sail off the battlefield, resulting in its loss. 
 This doesn't make sense after all, because unless you're near land or shoals, the sea is a relatively 
 open space.  

  It's too bad that the battles don't come together well, because they otherwise look fabulous. The 
 battlefields on land are simply beautiful, and they capture the diversity of terrain that can be 
 found in Europe, from the foreboding German woods to pastoral Spanish farmland, and more. There 
 are also picturesque farmhouses and other buildings that you can barricade infantry in for a defensive 
 and line-of-sight advantage. It almost feels like a painting, at times. The units and unit animations 
 could be a lot better, though, and they sometimes feel a bit crude in comparison to the background. 
 Still, it's very cool from a distance, especially when you see the smoke bursts from canon and 
 gunfire, as well as formations lining up and exchanging fire.  

          While pretty, this naval battle is a handful to manage. However, it's necessary to have 
 multiple ships if you want to increase your odds of victory.     

  Beyond the campaign game, Imperial Glory ships with a meager five historical battles that you can 
 play from either side. This is a fairly small number, but at least the major battles, such as Waterloo 
 and Austerlitz, are accounted for. In terms of multiplayer, Imperial Glory only limits you to real-time 
 battles. You can't play the turn-based campaign in multiplayer, which is probably due to the huge 
 amount of time that it would require. You can play naval and land battles, as well as the historical 
 battles in multiplayer.  

  Imperial Glory feels very much like Shogun: Total War did when it came out. In other words, it 
 shows a lot of untapped promise and potential, but it also possesses raw edges and missed opportunities. 
 This is still an enjoyable game, though, so long as you're willing to overlook the flaws.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: usiandrew
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Imperial Glory held a great deal of promise that it didn't attain. The campaign game is fine. The 
 RTS game is mediocre.
  
  The campaign system is not much different than alot of other games like axis and allies. It's a 
 turn based resource management campaign.
  
  What should have set Imperial Glory apart from the rest was the battle resolution. The RTS battle 
 portion of the game has issues. Many people do not want to play the campaign game they just want 
 to use this as an RTS battle game. The battle game gives you 4 scenarios from a series of wars 
 that lasted for nearly 20 years. Worse no matter nation you play your available units are always 
 the same. You can purchase upgrades to their morale and Fighting capability but that's about it. 
 An 1814 French army has the same stats as an 1805 army.
  That makes the Marie-Louise's as good as La Grande Armee and they really weren't even close.
 
  
  The RTS battles also tend to be very bloody, fight until the last man, slug-fests. Which is fine 
 if you are playing a one off battle. But as a Battle resolution for the campaign game it is a big 
 problem to lose your army in a victory. It takes alot of resources to build it in the first place 
 but losing most of it in a victory makes it a very poor system. If you lose a battle your entire 
 army is gone, Not just takes casualties, It disappears from the map along with it's commanders.
 
  
  Overall it can be a fun game if you just play the battle mode. But if that is the only reason you 
 are buying it, buy Rome Total-war and download Napoleonic Total War II for free. You get 2 great 
 games that way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vsem_Pizdetz
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  What certainly will be funny to watch is when Pyro Studios will be burying this game in all its 
 Glory into the grounds of Arizona (sound familiar?) when in February, Empire Total War will hit 
 the shelves. This game is so terrible, limited and simply historicly unnaccurate that Pyro Studios 
 were probably aiming to offend the careers of historians for some good reason, because they certainly 
 successeded there. 
  The player is only able to engage five nations to play and campaign battle limit of maximum units 
 is 18 whilst the Custom battle scenarios is 20! Funny as it gets, the player is only able to place 
 a maximum of three officers in one of the many territories composing the map, each commanding three 
 units at first, increasing by 1 unit when ranked one of out the three possible times. The player 
 may also recieve three Marshals which can command up to six units each through completing a quest. 
 There is only four types of different cavalry, five different infantry and artillery types and 
 three types of vessels. The battles themselves have very limited things to do. It is unheard of 
 capturing artillery, no such a thing as a morale system, impossible to lead infantry out of melee 
 and I have so many other reasons to bash this game its rediculous.
  
  However, this game has good graphics in both the battles and campaign maps. But what I have really 
 enjoyed was the different languages written for the different countries. Russians speak Russians, 
 French speak French, etc. There is barely any games out there that have this. Everyone usually 
 speaks English for the player to comprehend but this made it feel like you were actually controlling 
 your empire and troops. I think the total war games can take this feature into their product. 
 
  
  Overall, this game is really annoying and limited that makes me not even want to use my tactical 
 genius inside my brain. Do not get this... wait for EMPIRE TOTAL WAR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VsemPizdetz
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  There are too few games based on the Napoleonic era, which is quite unfortuanate to people who 
 enjoy that time period, such as myself. As much as the fact that Imperial Glory can bring some 
 nicely done scenes on the battlefield, it is laughably one of the most unrealistic games. 
  
  First of all, Imperial Glory brings a tremendous lack of the understanding on Napoleon. There 
 are only FIVE historic battles that the player can take in his whole career and yet even the major 
 ones are left out such as Borodino, Battle of the Nations, Trafalgar, etc. 
  
  Second, in the campaign map, the player can only have Three military leaders in one territory making 
 the maximum units on a battlefield to 18 where as the "custom" battle scenrios are 20 and even 
 so, the last military leader (Marshal) who can lead 6 units, can only be acquired at the last stages 
 of the game. The diplomatic and military moves of the AI are competely ridiculous. I have experienced 
 Britain declaring war on Egypt!
  
  Third, there are only 5 nations to play, respectively. But that is not enough. I find it quite 
 embarrasing for Pyro Studios to not include the Ottoman Empire, Spain, Rhine and Sweden as not 
 playable factions.
  
  Fourth, there is no complexity on the battlefield management. It takes about 5 seconds for the 
 Muskets to reload (not historically accurate) and the cannons of the enemy, cannot be taken and 
 used. The naval battles are much to hard to control and the AI is stupid, making repeated manoveurs 
 on the field. There is simply no strategy in Imperial Glory.
  
  The only thing I admire this game is because of the use of Foreign languages. The Russians speak 
 in Russian, the Austrians in German, the French in French, etc. I think future games should use 
 this method of making the game more realistic. BUT... I dont think anyone will buy Imperial Glory 
 anymore. IN some months, Empire Total War is coming out by the successful company which made Medieval 
 and Rome Total War... Total War. Empire Total War will be set in the Napoleonic era and will be 
 without question the best strategy game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segfaulthunter
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Good things first, the diplomacy is one of the best I've every seen in a computer game, greatly 
 surpasses the Total War series, where diplomacy is really lacking.
  Also the trade route system is a good system to introduce new things to earn money but taxes.
 
  The strategy map is well done, looks good and is easy to use.
  For those familiar with the Total War series, it looks like Medieval, the first one, but that's 
 not a bad thing.
  
  Now to the bad things, the land battles are extremely frustrating, as your riflemen will always 
 turn to the next available enemy, making it impossible to maintain a proper formation.
  The luck of a fast-forward function was luckily fixed in the 1.1 patch.
  Also missing is a way 
 to manually control the burst of fire as it is possible in Cossacks 2.
  But this is not a big problem because of the really fast reload times, making battles kind of un-tactical 
 and boring.
  
  But the naval battles are really beautiful and fun to play.
  When you can overlook the lacking land battles, you get a game with good campaign map and funny 
 naval battles for as less as 10 euro (price taken from Amazon) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ormzby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  gah, I don't know what it is with Napoleonic War period games, it seems every one that is made 
 has a major flaw in one sector. 
  
  Let's take a look back at a couple of others. Age of Empires 3 ridiculously boring story lines 
 when they werent really needed also no formations "lol" the 3d made the game look horrible compared 
 to AOE 2 aswell. 
  
  Next American Conquest the game looked good, had nice music, half decent story lines, but grammar 
 mistakes in the script and when you are given orders at the start of mission, i cant remember exactly 
 but "Most Likey Chief Pontiac is MOST LIKELY behind it all" BE VIGILANT lol   
  So Imperial Glory, Firstly no videos at all ha, ive not completed it yet but am assuming there 
 arent any videos at the end, the naval battles are cool but the ships could have had a bit more 
 animation on board and sound effects of the sailors going mental etc. On land battles the enemy 
 is easy to beat because they always come to you, it is simple to defend plus cannons are devastating 
 to the enemy have 10 of those and your rolling on to victory. It is stupid trying to make countries 
 like you, i offered 50,000 gold to denmark to try and get the relations to 100 and they refused 
 the offer, which took relations down to 90 garrgh. all of your guys bar the militia look the same, 
 there are no officers on the field, and your men do not run away, i had 4 men in a house against 
 2 cavalry units and they could do f*** all to me, i just kept shootin em for about 15 minutes lol. 
 The soldiers also do not reload properly and reload very quickly, and also are extremely good shots. 
 you cannot build forts, takes too long to build up armies due to not being able to build barracks 
 in non capital cities, the list goes on and on with things that annoy me about this game. However 
 i do like the trading part where you build ships to trade to certain cities and the men do look 
 cool.
  
  to rap it up if Cossacks 2, American Conquest, AO3 and Imperial glory had all their good sides 
 combined it would be an awesome game. I will have to wait until that day comes.
  
  Thanks for reading this review, its my first one i've ever done so forgive me if its not proffessional. 
 Later lads n lasses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorwang
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Last month, I saw a big box reads "Imperial Glory" in a store. I took a look at it, when I realized 
 that this game is made by Pyro Studios (I am a Commandos fan, I love Pyro Studios) I decided to 
 buy this game. I took it home and installed it.
  When choosing empires, I chose The Great Britain. Then I started to build up the empire. The 3D 
 effect of Campaign page is very good. Everything in it is very clear. The continent looks real. 
 It's like I was in Europe. In this game, you can make friends or wage war on other countries. You 
 can do some exchanges with others. You can even do smuggling in this game!
  The most wonderful design of this game is the Research tree. It's very fascinating.
  This game 
 is nearly flawless, but it has still got a little weakness. It's too hard to get the hang of it. 
 When I just started, I do not know what every sign stands for! It's confusing! Fortunately, I got 
 familiar with them gradually through everyday playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Continuing the breakout started with Praetorians, Pyro Studios is back with another non-Commandos 
 property, Imperial Glory. The new game simulates the vast panoply of Napoleonic warfare, from the 
 politics of empire to the tactics of the battlefield. This game is alot like the total war series, 
 the game plays out on a huge map of Europe, stretching from Russia to Britain and from Tripoli 
 to Sweden. Each of the five playable empires -- Great Britain, France, Russia, Prussia and Austria 
 -- owns a few territories at the start of the game; the rest are distributed among a variety of 
 non-playable states (Egypt, Spain, etc.) . There is also a multiplayer part of game once you are 
 done with the Singleplayer part of the game. Also there is a skirmish mode where you can just choose 
 a random map to play with once of the playable nations. Graphics: The graphics in the game are 
 really well done. Everything is in 3-D and the colors are well done. The effects of the cannon 
 fire a well done and the movement of troops are well done. I have to mention that during the ship 
 battles the water looks very nice :) The environments are much more tactically significant than 
 those in Rome: Total War. Imperial Glory allows units to garrison all sorts of structures, from 
 ruined temples to stone forts to dense forests. Many maps even include entire castles. Units in 
 these structures can attack passing enemies pretty freely so it makes sense to try to grab as many 
 of these structures as you can early on.
  
  Sound: The sound of this game is amazing, the soundtrack suits the game well. Also the Voice acting 
 is also well done in the game.
  
  Value: All in all this is allright, it's alot like the Total War series but it could really use 
 some improvement like the moral system during battles, ship battles is a plus but still needs some 
 improvement. But i still enjoyed the game. The reason why I got this game is because there are 
 few games that are set during the Napolionic Wars.
  I give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuffinPunk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  All right, so this game has been basically butchered by all the review websites, but DON'T listen 
 to them, they have been spoiled by flashy, know it all games, and have no time for the little guy. 
 Well this is one of those deep, thrilling games that I can play on my game deprived MAC. If you 
 have a good PC I'm sure you've played Rome total war, but this game truly is just as good, only 
 set in a different time period. So if your comparing these two games, it's really a preference 
 of history. In the gameplay department it's easy to organize, and command both in the turn based 
 map , and the battlefield. You have a lot of options on how you wish to shape and define your empire. 
 You may choose to ally with country's and trade with them, or if their too bothersome or just in 
 your way of expansion, you can go to war, invade and destroy. If you want peaceful expansion, go 
 ahead. Also there's 2 victory conditions for campaigns. One is based on points and time is limited, 
 this is easier to play through. The other is total victory of the entire game map. Unlimited time 
 and very labor inducing, yet fun.
  
  Graphics of the character models aren't uber realistic, but look great especially when formed into 
 a menacing army. The battlefields are detailed, and hight has an advantage. There's Buildings scattered 
 around which are used defensively and to win a battle without destroying the other army. sound 
 is cool and time appropriate. the screams and musket/cannon fire feel authentic. There's also naval 
 battles. the seas look empty but there still nice to look at. The ships are detailed, and lively. 
 The explosions are exiting, and the whole system is very intuitive. Enjoy this game, it's gonna 
 last me a long time. Hopefully you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Imperial Glory sets you in Europe at the beginning of the 1800s as the ruler of one of the large 
 empires that were arising in those years. You'll have to master economy, military and political 
 problems in order to give your empire a firm place in history.
  
  You probably heard the game resembles Medieval Total War in many ways, and thats true. Same basic 
 concepts, same graphics more or less, same stuff happening. Though I have to admit I enjoyed this 
 one more than I did the Medieval series. This one is actually very user friendly. Newcomers wont 
 have too much of a hard time trying to master the game compared to the medieval games. Even I had 
 problems with Medieval 2 and I played the first one over and over. But Imperial Glory offers a 
 tutorial for all 3 of the game instances that you will need: a land troop tutorial, a sea-ships 
 tutorial and finally a general overall economy and politics tutorial. You'll probably learn all 
 you need to know in about 30 minutes.
  
  The graphics are pretty good too. I had some troubles running Medieval 2 when I saw the entire 
 battlefield, but this game runs like a dream. I was quite impressed with the designers. I always 
 enjoy a game that is designed and programmed well that runs on lower end machines too. It's worth 
 the money you pay. Small things on the battlefield are really fun to watch too. If you zoom in 
 on your soldiers you will see them move independantly and have different color hair and faces.
 
  
  One thing that the game is really lacking is the option to select any nation on the map that you 
 want to play. For some reason you can only play the really large empires like Russia, Prussia, 
 France, Britain and others.... but none of the smaller states. There are about 25 computer players 
 controlling other empires while you play but you can only pick one among 6 as your own. It kinda 
 gets boring after a while once you finish it with one nation. Although each empire has a set of 
 unique units with their special advantages.
  
  Even so, I enjoyed the game quite a lot. I was really looking for a strategy game that wasn't such 
 a pain to follow and learn. Imperial Glory shows you how to play in an easy and fun way. The game 
 itself isn't too hard either. Other games of the genre get too caught up with the detail that they 
 lose their appeal pretty fast since they take so long. In this you only have to pay attention to 
 a limited number of things. I recommend it to anyone interested in an empire building strategy 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHUKY
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I see the guy workin for game spot gave this game a terrible preview
  i wonder what made him do so.. this game has awsom graphics..
  great plot.. beautiful story line.. the 
 unites development is just right
  historycal battles makes you feel you traveled in time and led napolion's empirial army.. the movment 
 of the units is so realistic
  the AI is not gonna let you have a moment of tranquility..
  all in all this game is a MASTERPIECE....
  
  The question now is...
  why the guy in gamespot 
 gave this game such a..
  terrible degree and review?? when for example another turn based strategy game Rome Total War was 
 given a good review when it has the worst graphics and gameplay engine??
  this's really a rediculous scam
  
  i think the answer is.. they get paied to support games and 
 fool gamers
  to actually believe it.. manipulating the whole market of gaming.
  
  Buy this game and enjoy one of the best graphics even till now in 2007 still the Best ever in turn 
 based strategy gener
  
  you guys should'nt listen to this reviewers on gamespot they are simply
  PAID OFF LIARS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardX2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is solid. That's my first opinion about it. People say Imperial Glory copies all things 
 in the game from Rome: Total War. That's not true. Imperial Glory is a good game that stands on 
 itself. You have the map where you can check your empire, train soldiers, construct ships and move 
 your armies from country to country. It's very elaborate and you really need to spend some time 
 to learn things. Don't waste your time playing the tutorial. It's too basic in my opinion. Prepare 
 for faults as you progress throughout the game. You really need to take things slow.
  
  There are also naval battles in this game, which in my opinion, are a bit boring. If you attack 
 a big fleet with a big fleet yourself, you quickly lose control, eg beware of the fact that YOUR 
 ships can also crush each other if they have a collision. Imperial Glory lets you play with 5 different 
 civilisations: Great Britain, France, Prussia, Russia and Austria. I think that the game doesn't 
 guarantees any replay value as the 5 countries look very much on each other. As you progress throughout 
 the game, you can also teach your armies different formations, although there are only 4 or 5 formations 
 to learn. Another point is that the battles do not have that epic feel that Rome has. Imperial 
 Glory is just a good game where you can have loads of fun with. I really recommend this game! March 
 to glory!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Este juego es de los mejores juegos de estrategia en tiempo real y a&uacute; n mejor en la estrategia 
 por turnos donde realmente el juego da de si todo lo que contiene. El juego est&aacute; dotado 
 de unos grandes gr&aacute; ficos, un sistema de gesti&oacute; n sencillo y adictivo, con un interfaz 
 muy intuitivo y con unas batallas estrat&eacute; gicas bastante logradas. Adem&aacute; s est&aacute; 
 dotado del mejor sistema de batallas navales que se haya visto hasta la fecha en un juego semejante.
 
  
  Desde luego no es un juego inferior a la saga Total War y quiz&aacute; s su planteamiento de conquista 
 por turnos sea m&aacute; s sencillo y adictivo que el de la serie Total War.
  
  One of the best strategic games that I was played. It's a very inmersive game and it has got the 
 better naval battles I have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliofwalton
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Imperial glory is a game in which tactics really is needed. Unlike other strategy games in which 
 you must gather food and make soldiers and just send them to battle, this game requires skill to 
 be able to master. You start off looking at the map of Europe and you have the choice of 5 different 
 countries; Prussia, Russia, Great Britain, France, Austria. And then you must try to conquer the 
 map. The game is set in the 17 and 1800s. You go through 3 eras in the game unlocking new things 
 as you go. Just as in reality you rely on your allys and must try to use them to conquer the field. 
 The army do require resources but can usually be easily made. They consist of men armed with swords, 
 clubs, muskets, hussars etc. Each time you send an army into enemy territory a battle starts in 
 which you can see your army on the terrain. Then you must tactically position them for the attack. 
 The gameplay somewhat reminds me of Rome: Total War but better. The only real problem with the 
 game is the loading time. If your RAM is 256mb it takes around 2 mins to load each battle. However 
 if you RAM is 512mb it might take 1 minute (approx) for each battle. And another good attribute 
 is the length of time to learn the game. And this can be done in minutes even without a tutorial. 
 The graphical attributes of the game are actually quite high considering each battle can have up 
 to 1800 troops max. And each time one group of your army attacks another they all go together in 
 a big huddle and kill each other. It does actually look really good. You can send muskets into 
 the houses (if there are any in the particular terrain) to defend from. The five main countries 
 that you can choose at the beginning are the only ones with a palace in the capital city. The palaces 
 however were a bit disappointing graphical wise. They were too blocky and chunky. But this was 
 not the case with Great Britain because they have a castle and moat. If you are the defender of 
 the palace/castle its not too difficult, but if your the attacker your in for a hell of a time. 
 Once you actually get one of the around 20 countries you are likely to be enemies with their old 
 friends. So say you attacked Spain and they were friends with Portugal you would also be at war 
 with Portugal and maybe the friend of Portugal and their friends. So you have to be careful. And 
 you also have to be careful not to let any of the five main countries grow too much or youll be 
 in for it later!
  
  The audio is of high quality and it does suit the game quite well. In battles if you far away from 
 an army you hear nothing but as you get closer you can hear them marching and shouting. But the 
 only thing was that in my opinion some of the cannons made the same sound as the muskets did when 
 fired but that was only minor. 
  
  The time it takes to complete the game is not easily defined, because one mistake could mean another 
 hour of gameplay. But it took me no longer than 3 days of hardcore gaming. It really was tough 
 to get every country. But by the time there were only 3 countries left I bought some land from 
 them and then attacked them from the land because I was so rich. But if you made little mistakes 
 like me and you saved every now and again you could finish it in 10 hours. However if youre a 
 bit slow and an average gamer probably 15-20 hours should do the trick.
  
  Verdict:
  This game is a game for any one who liked Rome: Total War or something like it. And is something 
 to try for someone looking for a game to spend time on.
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Loading time: 5/10
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Audio: 7/10
  Gaming time: 9/10
  Learning use of game: 
 9.5/10
  Overall: 8/10
  
  These are the minimum system requirements of the game:
  Windows 95/98/98SE/ME/2000/XP
  Pentium 3 1.0 GHz or equivalent
  256 MB RAM Windows 98/ME/2000/XP
 
  Video card: 64MB Geforce 4 or higher.
  A DirectX 9.0 compatible sound card. DirectX 9.0 or higher
  A windows compatible mouse, Keyboard 
 and CD-ROM drive.
  At least 2560 MB free memory on hard disk.
  
  8/10
  Final Verdict 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  When I saw that a Napoleonic era turn based stragedy game was being released, I couldn't wait to 
 get my habds on it. I'm a big fan of games like the Total War series, Rise and Fall, Knights of 
 Honor etc. Unfortunately Imperial Glory didn't live up to what I expected. When I found out you 
 could only play as five countries I was rather discouraged, but continued to play. What was worse 
 was that the countries were "empires" so you already had more than one country to govern, and also 
 the speed of the game seemed rather, slow, to say the least. It wasn't just the stragedy view that 
 made the game slow moving, but unlike in the Total War Series when you fight a battle you cannot 
 pick up the pcae of the game and have to wait 5 minutes fo ur troops to engage the enemy. When 
 they finally did, I was suprised to see that the troops didn't have any morale gage of any sort, 
 and that your/the enimies army would be wiped out quickly in a few minutes, which was never the 
 case. I didn't expect much of the graphics to be honest, as they we all the same man, as in other 
 games, so I didn't oay much attention to that. But I have to say that not all of the game was bad. 
 The ability to fight in palaces and historich sites is superb, aswell as being able to fortify 
 a certain building. Also the fact that you could personally command sea battles was a big plus 
 for me, and made the game more exciting. But this was flawed, as the "battlefield" was too small 
 and the ships kept leaving it. The game is ridden with flaws, the miniscule range of formations 
 for troops apart from two different types of lines and if your lucky a square formation. Also again 
 the tactical view was hugely flawed, as there were not enough provinces that made up countries. 
 They should change this, although I realise it would historically inaccurate but who cares? The 
 diplomacy side of the game is tedious and fruitless. Only being able to build certain buildings 
 and create all troops in your capitol is ridiculous and makes me wonder what the developers were 
 thinking. Overall the game culd have been an instant classic, rivaling the Total War series and 
 other great games, but the foundations of the game were crap and let the whole game down. It lacks 
 depth and it is obvious that it is the first in the series as the developers are inexperienced 
 or just not rying to make this game better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamsesD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  This is a turn-based strategy game with great potential. The time is set in the Napolian time what 
 gives a nice gameplay.
  
  You can play a main campain, multiplayer and some historical battles, instant and quick battles.
 
  
  The main campain:
  You can play as five different nations: Great Britain, France, Austia, Prussia, Russia. They have 
 there own pro's and contra's. Every nation has one single unit that's special for them. For the 
 rest the other unit's are very similar, what I find very disapointhing. If you with the frech against 
 the English you will almost encounter the very same unit ony the colours are different. You start 
 of with some provinces and some small military units. You have to youre provincies with builings 
 who supplie you with money, raw materials, population and scientific investigation. These 4"products" 
 are needed for building new buildings, military units and new technoligies. You can play the campain 
 in to ways. to first is the traditional way: By attacking and taking over provinces. But (yes, there's 
 almost everywhere in this game a but) The first thing is that you can move from province to province, 
 so I doesn't coun't for the speed and distance that you move if you have an army of canons or of 
 cavalery!!! Also there can only be 3 armies of the same faction. That's something that's stupid 
 because when you play it some houres the armies in the barracks are to great in number to be victorius. 
 But the greatest problem is: when conquer a provence you distroy al buildings in provence. So you 
 have build everything up from the ground. 
  The other way to play the campain is much better. The dimplomathique way. You can take over provinces 
 by building buildings who increase the sympathie level of that country towards youre empire. It 
 takes a long time but it's worth it. You get al it's recorces and buildings aren't destroyd and 
 you'll get it's total army. This makes it unfair if you wanna play it the militairy style because 
 the other nations go almost al the diplomatic style. The main campain ends when you destroy the 
 other factions.
  
  The Battlefield.
  On Land.
  Each provence has it's own battlefield. So, every place you fight in a provence is the same battlefield. 
 This is somewhat disapoiting. For those of you who have played Rome Total War this is indead a 
 contra. The units are very nice and beautifull to see also the maps are very nice. But there's 
 a lack in original units. The maps are stabble even whit a great number of troups on it. Certainly 
 when you play on a 256 video card. All units have endless ammo. This was the moust frustrating 
 thing in the whole game for me. The tatics are good and realistic. To fight in Imperial Glory is 
 realy nice for the eye but less good for someone who want's something more realistic. Good graphips 
 whit disapointhing units and not very realistic.
  On sea.
  You might think Imperial Glory is a small Rome Total War, but there's one point Imprial is better 
 than Rome. The sea battles there some!!!!
  Yes, you can fight at sea with nice graphics and the watter lokes really nice. Even the better 
 than I have seen ever. It's again realy beautifull. But there's again a problem with the realism 
 factor. A frigate a sink 3 normal ships!!!
  Very nice when you have a buch of them like say 3, and youre enemy has only 9 ships!!!!
  
  
 This game has a great future when further worked out. It's a nice age: The age of Napolian. But 
 because of small problems and enerving things the game doesn't live to it's potential. As the gamespot 
 review says: This is a good clone of Rome Total War but it isn't Rome Total War.
  
  I hope you've liked this review, you can always write to me for extra comments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crusaderlord
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  A great game full of realistic combat experience and strong historical bases any RTS fan could 
 like this game... However as all games its easy to get upset of winning battles or just seing the 
 enemy being crushed too easily.
  After sometime the game gets boring especially on the main game because let s face it being on 
 the same age battle after battle makes this and other games lose a lot of their magic.
  Also the historic realitiy makes the game more interesting , besides you can only play wich one 
 of the five empires, the soldiers formations, cavalry charges and artillery barrages contribute 
 a lot for a battle sensacion a victory or death match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The trouble with the mods I found (can you beieve there is even a Shadows Mod - c'mon Pyro, no 
 shadows?) . The trouble is the game folders required to be altered don't exist in the Australian 
 release. I have mods for shadows, blood, flags, battles, historically correct uniforms, weapons, 
 battles, ships etc. The game as it ships is very, very basic. If you have any knowledge or interest 
 in this period (and you must have to have bought it) you will be very abruptly swamped with mediocrity. 
 It's like a game developer's work-in-progress heading toward a massive simulation of this period 
 in history. And that is its' falling point. Because tht's where it stops - at ground level. The 
 promise isn't fulfilled, as if the programmers lost interest, downed tools and just walked away 
 never thinking it would see the light of day. The land battles become rapidly tiresome and repetitive. 
 Sea battles are difficult only because it's so easy to accidently sail out of the battle. The political 
 system seems based on barroom politics and the empire management section of the game (the primary 
 section) is frustrating and obviously hasn't read it's own manual. Microprose' "Field of Glory" 
 tromps all over this game in the land battle department, and it's follow-up game "The Civil War" 
 is a monster when it comes to the management of an on-going war. At least it's better than "Napoleon 
 1813", but not by much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  I have found this game to be quite involving, I have played mainly as Great Britain. so far, I 
 have found it challenging to gain more gold and population! 
  I went to war with Denmark, I defeated their armys, which was ,mainly militia but as I was about 
 to annex them, an army of loyalist milita and my army were line infantry and they crushed my army,. 
 Annoying that was France invaded them!!
  
  The game play is great it does take time to learn, I have just learnt to merge troops together 
 example line infantry when they suffered casuaties to bring them back to strength!
  
  To get more gold is by to increase your commerical routes, by clicking on the commerical button 
 next to the miltray view, build many ships as you can, click on other countries and build trade 
 posts! this will help!
  
  The navel battles are superband so are the land battles the sound and graphics are truely brillant!
 
  
  I would recommend this game to people who plays strategic games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  I am always in alert when a somewhat different game is being released. And Napoleon strategy games 
 is something you dont see often! So, even though I knew from screen shots and reviews that Imperial 
 - besides the era - offered nothing new to the genre I bought it.
  
  Commanding armys compared to Rome Total War well, its like compapring a Mazda with a Ferrari! The 
 first maybe reliable but there is no way be such a gaming experience as the second!!
  
  The Diplomacy and economy system is ok, and well the whole game feel that its ok! But lets just 
 say I expect the time a game about Napoleon times will be released based exactly to theTotal War 
 Engine! ( I think I should make a request to Creative Assembly!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallithk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  This game surprises you alot it contain one of the best and most difficult campaign ( wich is possitive 
 ) i ever tested. the battles are also very good you need to know something about tactics but noot 
 very much and you can also fight on sea.
  If you are only going to play custom battles you can play this game without knowing anything about 
 RTS games but if you are going to play the campaign you need to be very good.
  --- --- --------- ---- --------- ------------ -- -- -- ---- ----- -------- -------- -- ---- ---- 
 -------------- ----- ---
  ------- ------ -- --- - - --- --- --- -- ------------ -- -- --- - -- -- - ----- --------------------------- 
 - ----- ----- ------ ------------ ------- ------------- -------- ---- -------- --- - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Greg-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, I got this game since i'm very interested in the time period, and AoE III was simply terrible.
 
  
  Graphics: 8.5 -- I really enjoyed the musket fire, the horses charging, and even enjoyed the map 
 on the campaign! Overall, the naval battles are just amazing, and the land ones are great. The 
 only problem is how the cannon explosions are unrealistic, with the cannonballs exploding, not 
 bouncing.
  
  Sound: 6 -- Really, the only reason this got over a 5 is because the cannon shots and horses stampeding 
 was spectacular. Unfortunately, the sound is about a 4th grade band level. Whoa. It's the same 
 tune over, and over, and over, and over.....
  
  Replay Value: 8 -- I think this is one of those games you can play over and over and not get bored. 
 The quick battles offer unique changes to the normal "Kill everyone" concept, by letting you hold 
 strategic points.
  
  Naval and Land battles: 10 -- What can I say, it's great. Realistic formations, men actually having 
 to reload muskets for 20 seconds or more, and realistic yells coming from officers. The Naval battles, 
 while a bit confusing, are also amazing. It's quite interesting to see sails ripped up, and cannonballs 
 ripping into hulls.
  
  Campaign: 7 -- It's got a lot of value and potential, and the amazing diplomacy system is great 
 fun, but the battles are few and far between. Also, the AI is smart. In fact, sometimes almost 
 too smart. Take this example: I'm England, and i'm trying to peacefuly acquire Castile (Spain) . 
 I get sooo far, and it takes soooo many resources, and just when I'm ready to annex it into my 
 Empire, France invades and takes it in one turn. I officially hate the French.... So take this 
 advice -- Don't, and I mean don't -- use peaceful annexation! Just crush the opponent and show 
 no mercy.
  
  Overall: 9 -- Cool battles, cool AI, and wupping the French! What's not to love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gulbraa
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first looked at the cover of this game I thought "I bet that game is one of those crappy 
 games that are the most boring in the world" but when I got home and looked at the official site 
 and downloaded the demo and played it I was amazed that there was a game on the market like this. 
 I have played all the Age of Empire, Mythology, also Civilizations 4, Starcraft, and some other 
 RTS games but this I would say was second to AOE3 (Age of Empires 3) but in my heart I think this 
 is the best game I have ever played, really but that may be due to the fact that I am a History 
 buff and love this age. But in the end this is just one man's opinion.
  
  The game is very good at keeping the uniforms to what they looked as in the 18-19th century and 
 I would think this the BEST GAME OF ALL TIME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 677325
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game that any RTS fan is sure to love. It is set between the years of1789 and 
 1830 and you get the choice of controling the empires of either; Great Britain, France, Russia, 
 Prussia or Austria all trying to have their fair share of Europe. The game has all the great qualities 
 of Rome total war and has added some new ones aswell. The graphics are excellent and you can zoom 
 right in on the units. Its great to see your musketeers line up and fire volley after volley of 
 musket balls into the enemy. The game gives you the opportunity to command navel battles which 
 can be very intense, but they do have their downsides including; you can only have six ships in 
 a battle, and its hard to control all of your ships at once when there sailing around all over 
 the place. The battles are intense and you can have all sorts of different units including musketeers, 
 riflemen, lots of different types of cavelry and different types of artillery. The AI is sometimes 
 bad because your soldiers tend to stay and fight right till the very end and not retreat like in 
 Rome Total war, this means you lose soldiers for nothing. But the game is definatly worth buying 
 and you will have alot of fun carving your empire in Europe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  I got this thinking "great, it will be like Total War only with muskets, cannon & ships. & indeed 
 it is quite like this, but these things werent as great as i had hoped. I dont think anyone denies 
 that this is a Total War clone, though Medievil rather than Rome in most respects. This is a shame 
 because the tactical moving of armies that u get in Rome was even more important in this period, 
 & yet is impossible with the tabletop mapstyle they have gone with. If you ask me, they should 
 have stolen the Knights of Honor map type because that i feel would have worked best. 
  There are several things that Pyro have done with this game to make it stand out, some work; some 
 dont. Battles of course involve infantry, cavalry & cannon & theres no denying that battles are 
 quite fun. However, since musket troop squads can fire through eachother as opposed to having to 
 line up side by side, battles can be as easily won by just lining ur men one behind the other & 
 watching the enemy get sucked into the firstline & mowed down by the rest. The non-Playable countries 
 can be taken over either diplomaticly by reaching a 100% approval with them, or conquest. The latter 
 works fine but the former to me at least is, while usefull, strange & simplistic. Reaching that 
 100% is not wholely difficult & it seems odd to me that these countries can say no to peacefull 
 annexation. Sea battles too, have their pros & cons. There never seem to be any big ones in the 
 campaigns, instead usually you just encounter one or two sloops floating around. The battles too 
 can drag on for ages, & it is possible to loose even when ur winning by letting ur ships float 
 off the map. Finally, only capital provinces can build troops, which is a novel idea to say the 
 least, & one I like. Also you have to train captains, generals etc who can support certain numbers 
 to troops under their command. This again is an interesting idea which works, though it can be 
 a handicap at some points.
  Imperial Glory has clearly tried to show that its not just a Total War clone. Unfortunately, in 
 so doing it has added things that drag this game down as a great alternative it could have been. 
 I havent listed everything new good or bad about this game, but i dont need to. The score speaks 
 for itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:29 am PT
Review:  this game actually have more intense action ive ever seen.. well maybe.. i think its more on how 
 you command your troops in the front line.. well the game that is.. as for its originality.. well.. for 
 me its not copying anything.. they just have the same aspect in bringing that butt kickin world 
 domination thing.. its way different in total war coz ive'd played it.. the graphics not dull and 
 the way you can actually see your troops in 3d is cool.. getting shot or fired at by howitzers.. hehehhe
 
  
  its a good mixture of strategy and how you react quickly in times of short time battle scenarios.. get 
 those brain workin or get your country workin for others if your more on wait and dye battle type. 
 i hope theres an expansion for this.. with more countries to invade... ouch!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  At first glance, the game seems to resemble an attempt to "clone" the Total War series in many 
 ways.
  
  Once you start playing the game in Campaign mode for example, it soon becomes clear that there 
 are many subtle philosophical differences as far as the overall game play is concerned.
  
  To begin with, the genre in which the game is staged, i. e., the European Imperial Age of the late 
 1700's to early 1800's makes a direct comparison almost impossible, since the technologies, buildings, 
 advances, etc. that apply will clearly be different than those involved in any of the Total War 
 series games.
  
  This means that the developers had to focus on some different aspects of the application of possible 
 advances such as the political research branch which really becomes quite complex as the game progresses 
 - typical of this era in European history, with alliences, coalitions and other political things 
 happening on almost a turn-by-turn basis.
  
  The diplomatic AI and options available are therefore a lot more involved and complex than those 
 found in Rome Total War or Medieval Total War although there aren't any assasins or spies running 
 all over the place. Instead, the latter is really replaced more on a "global" scale through the 
 necessary research and buildings in capital provinces.
  
  The ability to assimilate populations through Newspaper branches or other propaganda related infrastructure 
 is really not covered in Rome Total War for example, where the only way to really take over a new 
 province is through military sieges or direct actions or via a rather rudimentary "Proctectorate" 
 system. In this sense, this game is therefore far more developed in this area of empire building 
 and quite different from the above.
  
  The concept of sympathies between empires is also completely different and is really key to the 
 whole empire building aspect of the game, since the manipulation of sympathies towards one's own 
 empire can actually result in greater gains over a longer period than sheer military might.
  
  The concept of "Quests" as implemented in the game can also become quite a powerful game winning 
 tool if utilized correctly at the right times and cannot really be compared with "wonders" in Rome 
 Total war for example.
  
  Having played the game for a few days now, it is clear to me that in the long run an empire can 
 almost be built entirely without any direct military action if the diplomacy aspects of the game 
 are fully utilized and managed, although some military conflict will be inevitable sometime towards 
 the end if one wants to gain the final number of "Glory Points" to win the game.
  
  Given this perspective therefore, it is clear that the developers focussed a lot more along these 
 lines than the sheer wonder of the massive land battles in Rome Total War for example.
  
  This doesn't mean that the land battles - not resolved automatically by the AI by user choice - 
 in this game are bad. They are just not as good as those in Rome Total War. This applies to both 
 the look and feel, command abilities and "intelligence" of the underlying AI. The graphics are 
 not in the same class and the options available to command troops directly are rather limited not 
 to mention an AI that seems to lose it's marbles every so often. A good example is in the "easy" 
 mode where enemy columns will often just sit and wait on a bridge instead of attacking if your 
 opposing armies are fairly close in numbers and overall power. Another obvious omission is the 
 lack of any troop morale values that almost negate the respective strenghts and weaknesses of various 
 unit types, since everyone will simply do a banzai on everyone else untill they win or everyone 
 is dead.
  
  Nonetheless, it's still quite enjoyable and not bad at all.
  
  Where the developers obviously tried to improve on the Total War style is in the area of sea battles. 
 In this area the game is a lot more developed than any of that found in the Total War series and 
 the graphics are actually quite cool.
  
  The only problem, which has been mentioned by a few other reviewers, is that the whole command 
 and management situation quickly becomes chaotic with ships doing things all over the place and 
 the management of them simply becomes to complex to really enjoy in anything that resembles a larger 
 scale sea battle. It's a pitty, since with a little more homework on the user interface front I 
 believe the developers could have made this aspect a lot easier to manage.
  
  Once again, it's still quite enjoyable though.
  
  The bottom line is therefore that this game 
 simply won't work for gamers who have a taste for the large-scale, beatiful and artifically "intelligent" 
 land battles found in Rome Total War for example.
  
  Instead, this game is more for those people who really enjoy some empire building with a lot of 
 forward planning and "intrigue" involved in diplomacy and the correct research as well as infrastructure 
 developments at the right time.
  
  While, in this sense the game can become somewhat pedantic in the pace department at times, it 
 is really quite a great game with lots of little nooks and crannies to be explored and utilized 
 at the right time. The aspect of battling on land and sea should almost be seen as a variation 
 of this theme from time to time when necessary just to get out of empire building more for a while.
 
  
  All in all I recon the game is worth buying and therefore playing if you fall into the latter category, 
 and if the developer intends doing a Imperial Glory II there may just be a game in the making for 
 the first time in a long while that can actually challenge the Total War series - not that we are 
 comparing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilzemag
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, those Pyro guys are actually great programmers. They developed a fantastic game, eventhough 
 it lack taste and class. I didn't like the idea of having only five nations. Oh, God!! They even 
 left out Spain. Spain ruled most of North America, and South America and some parts of Asia. Prussia 
 didn't have squat. neither did Austria. I guess the publishers want a quick sell. Any how, I made 
 the game dance for me. It is an excellent game to Mod. All you need is WinRAR, Adobe Acrobat, and 
 notepad, and if you have deep pockets a 3DSMax 5+ program to make some outstanding modification. 
 You also need Sound Forge to add your own music as well. It's a great game, sorry about writing 
 about modding, but what can I say it is a great game. If you like to see charging armies across 
 3d valleys and the Ships of the LIne firing their cannons and smoke blowing all over the place 
 then you gotta get this game. I say the negative reviewers don't know about games anyway. If you 
 don't like the game, ask the developers for Editing tools, and ideas about the LUA code. It's easy. 
 I made this game squeel for me. Boy, I have to say having my Spanish Armies marching over Europe 
 with the Spanish Military Music playing and squashing every nation i come into contact is FUN! 
 I preferred to annex France and Britain and the other major forces, but in time as I figure out 
 the LUA code, yeah France and Britain will squeel for me too. The game would even better if I could 
 land on the United States and burn Washington D. C. too. That, i guess would be an outstanding project. 
 The engine is awesome. Anyhow, as I mentioned earlier it is soooo eassyyy to MOD. If you have time 
 and willing to crack your cherry this game can dance like a find dandy Las Vegas pole girl. Yeah, 
 Viva Imperial Glory Baby.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: well the game play is pretty good i found. It was alot like Rome total war but it lacked 
 the moral systerm. Your men would just stand there till the last man was killed instead of running 
 away in panic once most of the unit has been killed. The Ship battles are pretty cool but could 
 use a bit more improvement
  
  Graphics: Comparted to Cossacks 2 , it's alot better. I'm not saying Cossacks 2 is a bad game it's 
 a good game to play, but in Imperial Glory it's done in 3-D and you can zoom in and out of of the 
 battle field.
  
  Sound: The sound is very nice I liked it
  
  Replay Value: well there are multiplayer and quick game in imperial glory that will keep you busy 
 for quite a while.
  
  in the end I give this game 8.5 out of ten and the score that gamespot should of not been that 
 low. I think it's not a wost RTS game out there, it dose have it's flaws but it's still quite fun 
 to play.
  
  (recommended games that are similer to the game: Rome total war, Rome total war: Barbarian Invation, 
 Cossacks 2, Medevil total war and the expantion Viking Invation and Medevil total war two) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gayland
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  OK, I'm not a tech person here, just a gamer -- and I've been playing for 6 years. So, if I like 
 a game, it's based on subjective criteria (namely, how much enjoyment I get out of it) . I started 
 out on flight sims, moved to first-person shooters and have now landed on turn-based strategy games. 
 I started on RTW, got the Medieval and Viking expansion packs, and recently bought Imperial Glory 
 after donloading the demo here at Gamespot. If you're familiar with the RTW, you know that the 
 graphics and gameplay are astounding. While I would give RTW a slightly higher score because I'm 
 more interested in the Roman Empire than Napoleonic Europe, the graphics and gameplay of Imperial 
 Glory are equal to, and in some cases actually slightly better than RTW. Specifically, the movements 
 of individual soldiers are not as uniform as in RTW. Additionally, you can actually engage in sea 
 battles on Imperial Glory, whereas the computer decides those battles on RTW. The graphics are 
 superb, offering the player a movie-like gameplay experience. 
  
  All in all, this is a great game. Buy it now. :-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 11, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  If you can manage to save yourself $50 and not buy this game right away, you will be better off. 
 This game is worth getting if you can trade it from a friend or wait until you can get it at a 
 discounted price. The game is a little redundant and at times you sit and do nothing but wait. 
 That being said, there is a lot of very fun features to this game and patience isn't such a bad 
 thing to have. If you want a really fast RTS, this isn't it, but there is still plenty of reason 
 to try it. Strategy wise, you will feel like you are playing a slightly cheaper version of Rome: 
 Total War since it has many similar features, though it does not equal the overall feel. Historically 
 the game does not exactly teach you anything, those looking to follow along a story line that is 
 historically accurate will be disappointed. What this game is good for is a challenge and a few 
 days of passing the time in between the games you can't live without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralCortez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2005 5:51 am PT
Review:  Imperial Glory is a Total War style straergy game based in the Napoleonic Era (1790-1830) . There 
 are only 5 playable Empires, but they are for the most unique.
  
  Graphics: The stratergy map is nice and shows who controls what very well. The battle graphics 
 do not live up to the hype, but they are still good. The battle graphics are like a watered-down 
 version of Rome: Total War's graphics.
  
  Sound: The music is appropriate for a Napoleonic war game. The musket-fire sounds great, and the 
 units speak in their nation's langauge. So, the British shout in English while the Prussians bellow 
 out orders in German.
  
  Control: The controls are very similar to Rome: Total War's. You use the mouse for the most part, 
 but sometimes the keyboard will come in handy.
  
  Value: This game has five, mostly different, Empires. Each plays differently. With the Prussian 
 Empire, you need to expand quickly because you are sandwiched between two great empires. The British 
 need to focus on Naval Power and dominate the seas. France is the main military powerhouse.
  
  Features: Other than the standard Total War style warfare, there is naval warfare. The naval 
 warfare is similar to what you would find in 2004's Pirates!. You control up to 18 ships in battle. 
 You can chose what kind of ammuntion your ships fire. You have standard Cannonball to destroy the 
 hull of the enemy ship, Chain Shot to tear the enemy's sails apart, and the naval version of a 
 shotgun, Grape Shot. You get to choose the range of effect your cannons will have. A tighter range 
 will focus the fire and cause more damage, but widening the range will allow you to fight faster 
 ships, but they won't be destroyed as easily.
  
  Overall: Imperial Glory is an awesome game. It has replayabily, some innovation, and the fact that 
 you can conqure the world with Prussia. If you love the Total War games, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziek
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Imperial Glory is an amazing game well worth the price of admission. I am a big fan of Rome Total 
 War and in various aspects of each game Rome excels, and vice versa for Imperial Glory. The graphics 
 on both games are amazing, however the naval battles offered ONLY in Imperial Glory are a testament 
 to state of the art programming. Both games aspire to represent their respective eras, and largely 
 achieve this, without taking the fun out of the game. Imperial Glory AND Rome Total War deserve 
 a spot in the strategy gamers collection of must haves. I am not in any way affiliated with the 
 makers of Imperial Glory however the Gamespot reviewer Jason Ocampo has done a great disservice 
 to fans of this genre by offering up a grossly inaccurate review score. Mr. Ocampos credibility 
 goes down the toilet on this one. Dont miss Imperial Glory if you are big fan of this warfare 
 period and are fans of the strategy game, this would be the only travesty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpinkert
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 17, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a good and engaging game with regards to empire management and choosing which building 
 to build or research to undertake. Diplomacy, equally, is very interesting and really is the first 
 game that I have seen to make this more essential than going to war. 
  
  Which brings me to going to war, battles are a real dissapointment in this game. I confess that 
 I'm a historical fanatic and have waited for a game to depict Napoleonic warfare even somewhat 
 accurately. The Battleground games came the closest but those were mared by skirmishers that could 
 run all over the map. And unfortunately, IG isn't that game either. 
  
  The lack of variation in battle places is really yawn-inducing. All battles in a given region take 
 place on the same map with the same objectives. And the units from both side are challenge to run 
 as fast as possible to grab the objectives (usually a village or farm house) . This is a confusing 
 portion of the game, most battles were fought because of the strategic or tactial benefit of the 
 ground, e. g. Quatre Bras for the road network or because one army was brought to bay by the other. 
 Yes, buildings and towns were used as strong points, but not were typically objectives in and of 
 themselves.
  
  However, the most confusing and disappointing aspect of battle is the lack of a morale system. 
 Morale isn't part of the battle system so everyone stands their ground to the bitter end. This 
 was rare in the period as battles were usually won by forcing the enemy army to becoming so undisciplined 
 that they would melt away. The lack of morale also makes every country's units act pretty much 
 the same. There isn't much difference in a Russian, Swedish or French units or experienced or green 
 units or between standard and elites units other than their ability to fire and melee.
  
  But, this lack of a system truly affects cavalry the most. It was a stanch battalion indeed that 
 would stand in the face of a well-planned charge from the Cuirassiers or the Horse Guard's and 
 if square wasn't formed quickly enough you were certain to lose the unit no matter how well-trained 
 and willing they were. In IG everyone enters melee and pulverizes the calvary with ranged fire 
 to the point that calvary arm is only mildly useful beyond attacking lone unsupported artillery 
 units. 
  
  Melee is another drawback as it takes place much too often. It was rare during the period that 
 cold hard steel was used in a protracted engagement -- one unit would usually run away before that 
 happened, here melee is undertaken by every unit, at the drop of a hat, to the last man. It is 
 so effective a tool that you often find it is best to just rush your army at the enemy and turn 
 the field into a mass of men in hand-to-hand combat.
  
  Sadly, the predominance of melee affects artillery to the greatest degree. Artillery certainly 
 isn't the queen of field in this game. While mildly effective, you never feel compelled to hide 
 your infantry from artillery which is a major failing -- their was a good reason Wellington placed 
 his troops on reverse slopes and 12 pound cannon was the reason. In IG, you can simple charge the 
 batteries with one of your less expensive units (a strategy that the AI employs in every battle) 
 to knock them out. The batteries can't take the unit out because they don't have very good range 
 to begin with and they don't become more effective at closer range (grape or double shot could 
 take out large portions of battalions in a single firing and any battalion charging a battery would 
 have to time their charge so that the guns couldn't be loaded before they reached the battery. 
 If the guns were loaded before the charging unit could reach them or could shoot down the artillerists 
 the charging unit simply wouldn't be around anymore) . The solution would be to protect your artillery 
 with infantry, but it almost impossible to support your artillery as it is difficult to bring enough 
 infantry firepower to bear to destroy the enemy's charging units in time to save your artillery. 
 That is unless you place your infantry so far in advance of the battery that they are out of support 
 range and then they are typically vulnerable to the ever immanent rush to melee from the enemy.
 
  
  I understand the need for balance between accuracy and playablity, but this is not even a somewhat 
 accurate depiction of Napoleonic warfare.
  
  That said, this is a good game and while I have issues with the battles they are only a portion 
 of the game and I would recommend it to anyone who likes strategy games. Hopefully we will see 
 an IG2 sometime soon as this could have been a great game -- IG2 might be it!
  
  Oh, P. S., where are the skirmishers? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megabestia
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 10, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  This game is developed by a Spanish studio and i'm Spanish, so i was expecting a great game of 
 my favorite age of the History (I think that the next total war game should be about Napoleonic 
 wars) , and... disapointing. Let's check what's wrong:
  
  -Ambition: Imperial Glory try to join the best of two worlds: the great battle system of Total 
 War and the strategy of managing a country of Europa Universalis saga. This is a hard task, someday 
 any studio willing to make a hard-work of gaming I+D will rewrite the terms of how a game works 
 and should make the definitive strategy game. This is not Pyro, that have focused on nice graphics 
 and good stetic. AS ALWAYS, this is main problem of the games of our time... we do not need better 
 graphics, better 3D effects, and better tech to buy better and expensive hardware... we need better 
 ideas, and this is really simple, like Shogun total war that understood that a real simulation 
 of war can't be made with individual units coming from a factory on the battleground... just drop 
 real battalions, and you'll get a revolution in the genre. Imperial Glory walks on the way that 
 cloning a good idea has more market profits that making a new idea. Well, at least, make a good 
 clone.
  
  -Strategy Map: Many factors and many simple: reseaching cost nothing but time and resources came 
 from the land as well money do, i can`t change the taxes? what about the war economy? hum, believe 
 you're a liberal King with open-mind ideas. Ok, all ive to do is wait or conquest more territories. 
 I'm going to need help, let's look for an ally. WHAT? MONEY?, let's check this: i'm the powerful 
 England and you're the humble Portugal, loosing an open war with France. I'm offering my armies, 
 my support, and your only choice to save your country and you request money? and just for 5 turns?... 
 so the alliances here are a mere question of money. Maybe on our century where the wars are economical, 
 but in Imperial Glory if you want help, pay a bodyguard-country. I'll do it my way, i'm sending 
 a new captain with 3 cannons to the coast of France, i've got 3 squadrons, and i want to regroup 
 my armies, splitting them with my new cannons in two fronts for the next step. Good idea, but you 
 can't. No free room? no way to change units between your leaders... this and many other factors 
 are frustating, killing any kind of realism.
  
  -Ground Battles: HOLD THE LINE! HOLD THE LINEEE! this words are without doubt the favourite order 
 off the squad leaders of the napoleonic era. If you loose the line, no way to mantain a battle 
 order. In Imperial Glory, this single order, stand, or hold the ground, or whatever is not available. 
 If your unit is shooting to a cavalry unit, that allways charge directly to your cannons, and if 
 your unit is in front of your cannons, protecting it, just look how they go away making easier 
 the enemy's work. Talking about lines, is impossible to set a single line with multiple units selected, 
 if you click and drop on the ground the squads they form a strange zig-zag... but that doesn't 
 matter because the bullets are very smart on only kills enemy units. You can fire with your own 
 units in front of your, the bullets will go thru your men, so all you have to do is putting all 
 together in a good position. Also you can trust your brave (hum, stupid) soldiers, without fear, 
 will fight until the end of all ends. Friendly fire? no morale?... no way. 
  
  -Sea battles: Finally i can fight with my vessels. The systems is easy, but the main problem here 
 is that the ships can't fire by their own, and when you've got more than 3 units you'll be all 
 time trying to locate them and trying to get them back. Meanwhile, the computer doesn't have that 
 problems, he can manage all his boats in real time, and as you cannot give orders in pause, you'll 
 get mad. Is fun to see how these ships of thousands of tons easily turns as a car (in Trafalgar, 
 the turn-movement of the french-spanish army took half an hour) but you cannot set the speed, making 
 them unable to govern. 
  
  I'm being cruel but i have to. Single factors of logic destroys a good work on graphics, ambientation, 
 detailed landscapes, uniform recreation and many other good things... the good point that i will 
 like to see in many other games is the cruelty of the battles: is not easy to win without many 
 casualties. In other games with one army and a good strategy you can smash the enemy with a realtion 
 of 1 of your per 10 rival men lost (TotalWar) . Here, without a good defensive position you'll have 
 to pay the victory with many blood, making the war away from your home hard, and the conquest of 
 countries the long-task it was, not a bliztkrieg.
  
  The final score is that's a pity to waste the work and the possibilities of this game for sinlge 
 logic factors, possibily ignored to make the game more accesible to young people and giving it 
 an arcade halo; if you want to do that, good, but please, don't sell it as the ultimate strategy 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game that I haven't stopped playing except to eat, work, sleep (a little) , 
 and keep from getting a divorce! I almost didn't even buy it after playing the demo (a poor representation 
 of the full game) . This is not a stuffy wargamer's game, it slightly compromises complete historical 
 accuracy for the sake of FUN (but is still realistic) ! It's approachable to the average gamer and 
 not overly technical and difficult. Absolutely amazing graphics in battle also. Get it and see 
 what I mean. Well, excuse me now, Prussia is waiting for me to lead them to victory! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomahawk22
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 23, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, this game is really a blatant and failed rip-off of the Total War series. Much of 
 the interface is the same, but without many of the useful shortcuts and keyboard changes available 
 to Rome Total War.
  
  The battles are quick and the melee combat makes you wonder which side is winning etc, and its 
 much too convuluted. The graphics are great. I'd give these guys more credit if it wasn't such 
 a rip off of all of someone else's (Creative Assembly's) great works. The sea battles aren't really 
 that compelling, and the campaign map is fun but not any improvement on RTW. Judged against Real 
 time strategy like Cossacks and others, this game isn't so bad, but for what it aims for, it disappoints. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdrumso5
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  While the diplomacy is extremely in depth the and the battles are nice, the graphics of the units 
 up close are not what they could or should be. Unlike Rome Total War where the AI was awful with 
 diplomacy, in this game it is a MUST! And that is what I love so much about the game, how in depth 
 it is. I will say that you can not do all of it in one campaign. 
  
  As for the military aspect of it, it is very new but if you wanted huge battles (like what Cossacks 
 2 promised but failed in) , then there will be a minor to moderate gap in the gameplay for you. 
 The naval battles are beautiful in the way of graphics but become very chaotic very fast on many 
 occasions.
  
  Overall it is a game that is 100% worth buying especially since the other options for games in 
 this era are games like Cossacks. Many people will crash it for being not "up to Rome Total War 
 standards, but don't believe them. This game has many features that exceed what RTW had. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
