-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Impossible Creatures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/impossiblecreatures/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  9, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.8, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 676 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Relic
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Dec 29, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though the actual battles in Impossible Creatures aren't all that great, the game's offbeat premise, 
 good looks, enjoyable campaign, and open-ended design make it both distinctive and recommendable. 
 

 Relic Entertainment, the developer of Impossible Creatures, earned widespread recognition in 1999 
 with the release of its first product, the sci-fi-themed real-time strategy game Homeworld. Homeworld 
 was unlike any other game in the genre before it, due to its effective, stylish use of a fully 
 3D perspective. An excellent single-player campaign, impressive visuals, and solid multiplayer 
 helped make Homeworld an outstanding game, and though several games have attempted to surpass its 
 accomplishments these past few years, arguably none have truly succeeded. Now Homeworld's creators 
 have finally completed their second real-time strategy game, which was more than three years in 
 the making, no doubt because play-balancing the game's open-ended army building system must have 
 been a nightmare. Impossible Creatures is superficially as different as can be from Relic's first 
 game, eschewing Homeworld's serious tone for one that's much more lighthearted, and taking place 
 along a small, fictitious South American archipelago, circa 1937. In the game, you create your 
 armies by combining pairs of real-life creatures to form bizarre, powerful hybrids: The tiger-headed 
 scorpion depicted on the game's box is a perfect example. And though the actual battles in Impossible 
 Creatures aren't all that great, the game's offbeat premise, good looks, enjoyable campaign, and 
 open-ended design make it both distinctive and recommendable.           Impossible Creatures' hybrid 
 units are more fun to build than to battle.    

  During the game's protracted development cycle, it actually underwent no fewer than two official 
 name changes, first from just plain Sigma to the obligatorily subtitled Sigma: The Adventures of 
 Rex Chance and then finally to Impossible Creatures. The game's original titles remain significant 
 to the story: Rex Chance is the Indiana Jones-like main character, and Sigma is the mysterious 
  The Island of Dr. Moreau -like technology that Rex uses to fuse animals together to create hybrids. 
 Rex Chance's adventures begin when he receives a letter from his long-lost father, urging him to 
 visit a little-known South American island where Sigma research is being conducted. Not long after 
 his arrival, Rex has a bad run-in with some hybrid creatures bent on having him for dinner, but 
 he's saved by the talented young Doctor Lucy Willing, who whisks him away in her hovertrain laboratory. 
 Thus begins Rex's quest to discover his father's fate and defeat the villainous Upton Julius, a 
 man who would use the Sigma technology to rule the world. Of course, Rex and Lucy will have to 
 get through several of Julius' cohorts before they can get to him.   

  The single-player campaign that tells this story is lengthy, challenging, and engaging, offering 
 a variety of objectives within most every mission, a good number of surprises, and plenty of amusing 
 cutscenes. The campaign is probably the best part of the game. Your average RTS campaign always 
 starts you off with weak units and limited technology and then gives you access to more powerful 
 stuff as the missions wear on; Impossible Creatures is no different, but the way you acquire new 
 and better stuff over the course of the missions is pretty novel. Specifically, you'll need to 
 use Rex and his tranquilizer rifle to "tag" new animals for their genetic material, and you'll 
 need to use Lucy to steal plans for new technology from your enemies. Since you'll usually get 
 several new creatures per mission, you'll always be looking forward to which of the game's 50 or 
 so stock creatures you'll find next and what sorts of bizarre yet effective hybrids you can make 
 as a result.            Shocking!  A  scorpion  with the  pincers  and  hindquarters  of a  lobster 
 !    

  A thorough tutorial is available before you begin the campaign, though if you've played any other 
 recent real-time strategy game, most all of it will be familiar territory. However, Impossible 
 Creatures' army building system is decidedly unusual. You pair up two creatures at a time and then 
 mix and match their torsos and appendages to produce various types of combat units. The game includes 
 a number of prepackaged armies, though you'll certainly want to experiment with making your own, 
 since much of your enjoyment of Impossible Creatures will come from thinking up strategies and 
 creating armies around them. Part of what makes the campaign fun is that you can edit your armies 
 on the fly, whenever you want, though you need to preassemble armies in advance for use in multiplayer 
 matches or skirmishes. Either way, the interface for the creature combiner is very clean and simple -- almost 
 too much so, as none of the humor, personality, or style of the game really comes across when you're 
 building units, and you don't actually get to see the process of two creatures getting hybridized, 
 only the end result.   

  At any rate, it won't be long before you're combining elephants, dragonflies, killer whales, panthers, 
 spitting cobras, grizzly bears, snowy owls, piranhas, and more, each time examining how your new 
 combination affects the resulting hybrid's core attributes like health, speed, attack, and defense. 
 The system is about as intuitive as can be expected; put a snapping turtle's legs on a cheetah 
 and it's going to slow down. Put an eagle's head on an elephant and it'll see farther. The resulting 
 hybrid creatures may look silly, but in practice they're not so different from what you'd find 
 in a typical real-time strategy game. Think of the fast creatures as your infantry, the slow and 
 tough creatures as your tanks, and the ranged attack creatures as your artillery, and you'll find 
 that Impossible Creatures' battles play out pretty much just like those of an old Command &amp; 
 Conquer game. You can create swimming, amphibious, or flying creatures, and some have one or more 
 special abilities -- but despite all the possible combinations, none of the beasts you can concoct 
 in Impossible Creatures is really all that different from the typical sorts of units you'd find 
 in any real-time strategy game.    

 The dozens of stock animals are divided across a five-tier hierarchy of "research levels," which 
 are like the four ages in Ensemble's Age of Empires series. Lower-level animals are basically smaller 
 and weaker than higher-level ones, but hybrids based on these are less expensive and available 
 sooner into a battle. It's possible and often preferable to create hybrids from animals of different 
 research levels, and the game intelligently recognizes the hybrids' key strengths in these cases 
 and weights their research costs accordingly. For instance, a mighty crocodile with the swift legs 
 of a zebra will have a higher research level than a zebra with the stubby legs of a crocodile. 
 Actually, you'll find that many of the stock creatures in Impossible Creatures just aren't very 
 useful, since similar but better alternatives are available at a relatively small additional cost. 
 Meanwhile, a small number of stock creatures are highly useful for their specific combinations 
 of innate abilities and will certainly find their way into most players' armies sooner or later. 
 For instance, the lobster can swim, automatically regenerates its health, and has pincers that 
 are effective against enemy structures -- traits that seriously enhance most other types of creatures. 
 So, in reality, the army building system isn't quite as open-ended as it may initially appear. 
           Some animals have special abilities, such as the skunk's stink cloud.    

  You can have up to nine hybrid units in a given army, which doesn't sound like a lot, but you'll 
 actually find that combinations of just two or three types of units are extremely effective. In 
 addition, Impossible Creatures has a handy army analyzer tool that specifically points out the 
 strengths and weaknesses of your armies, once you've created them. You'll probably want to have 
 units from all five research levels in a given army, but it isn't necessary. A typical match of 
 Impossible Creatures is very fast-paced, so within minutes you'll have gathered enough coal and 
 electricity -- the game's two resources -- to access the higher research levels. And, despite whatever 
 strange shapes or special abilities your hybrid units possess, it's their research levels that 
 are overwhelmingly important. Lower-level creatures stand little chance against higher-level ones, 
 no matter what they are, and that fact along with the relatively small differences in resource 
 costs and production times between building stronger units or weaker ones means you'll naturally 
 want to research your stronger units as soon as you can, and you'll rarely have reason to build 
 lower-tier units if you can build higher-tier ones.   

  All this underscores the sense that the actual combat in Impossible Creatures just isn't very satisfying. 
 Basically, your clump of weird units plows into the opponent's clump of weird units, and you cross 
 your fingers and hope for the best. Even if you're running the game at a high resolution, often 
 you can't readily tell what sorts of creatures you're up against, and while you can zoom in the 
 camera perspective or click on an enemy creature to check its stats, there's no time for this sort 
 of thing in a typical Impossible Creatures match. Perhaps it's understandable that the game doesn't 
 allow you to organize your units into formations, given that they're all wild beasts. Still, what 
 matters is you have very few real tactical options in commanding your forces, short of having to 
 micromanage units with some marginally useful special abilities. So really, what's surprising about 
 Impossible Creatures is that the brunt of the game's underlying strategy occurs  before  a match, 
 in the army builder, rather than during one. There are no different factions to speak of in Impossible 
 Creatures as there are in other games, so there's basically just one "right" way to most efficiently 
 build up your base and get your resources piling in fast, and then it's just a matter of cranking 
 out as many powerful units as possible.   

  Otherwise, Impossible Creatures looks great, though it would have looked much more striking had 
 it shipped before last year's real-time strategy blockbusters Warcraft III and Age of Mythology. 
 Colorful, realistic-looking tropical environments, smooth animations, and stylized, often funny 
 creatures make the game enjoyable to look at, while the well-produced 3D-animated cutscenes between 
 the campaign's missions add to Impossible Creatures' polish. Great voice-over work brings the characters 
 of the story to life, and the game is accompanied by an upbeat, jazzy soundtrack with plenty of 
 safari sounds thrown in. The creatures themselves don't sound very interesting, however, and mostly 
 just grunt and growl, and your henchmen will incessantly report that your "critters are under attack" 
 when you're in battle, as if you didn't know.           Many air units are really weak in Impossible 
 Creatures, but these rhino-hornets aren't bad.    

  Impossible Creatures is playable over a LAN or online via direct IP connection or through a built-in 
 player-matching service called IC Online. It's a bare-bones service, and it's not nearly as convenient 
 to use as the systems incorporated in Warcraft III and Age of Mythology. We experienced considerable 
 amounts of lag playing in online matches, even over a broadband connection and in matches with 
 fewer total players than the game's maximum of six. Alternatively, a skirmish mode is available 
 if you want to set up a custom game against a computer-controlled opponent, and here the AI provides 
 a worthwhile challenge, countering your forces seemingly as best it can. The game features a good 
 number of skirmish maps, many of which are quite large, and Impossible Creatures also ships with 
 a mission editor utility that lets you build your own scenarios. It's a complex program, as these 
 tend to be, but it fortunately is fully documented and theoretically lets you make significant 
 modifications to the core game.   

  Relic's second game is an inventive, full-featured real-time strategy game that has a lot of good 
 qualities. It also arrives on the heels of two of the best real-time strategy games ever made, 
 and while its concept may seem very different from those games, the core of the gameplay is not, 
 yet those games handle the fundamentals of real-time strategy combat a lot better than Impossible 
 Creatures does. On its own merits, Impossible Creatures is certainly enjoyable and interesting, 
 and it's worthwhile for the campaign alone, whose story will motivate you to slog through some 
 fights that aren't always all that fun. In the end, you'll find yourself having a better time dreaming 
 up and tweaking your custom armies than actually sending your creatures into the fray.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  I found this game really fun for myself, but thats an opinion. But I think may people share this 
 opinion with me :)
  
  Gameplay:
  The story was nice, better than many games. The game revolved around the story. In essence, without 
 the story, there would be no campaign! It is an RTS, so it is very similar to the Age of Empires 
 franchise, another of my favorites. Veterans will enjoy this for the originality and for "Just 
 plain fun"aspect.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  The graphics, I must admit, isn't good. But that doesn't stop me, yes the graphics are okay. Sound-there 
 was quite some sound effects, but there could have been more. Sound is hard, too much and you annoy 
 the player, too little the same : (
  
  Replay Value:
  Not the best, it does have online. Which I haven't actually tried yet : ( So I can't rate this section 
 the best. But the great story adds, I think, a good replay value. And its just sheer fun :)
  
  Out of 10 I have rated this 8.5/10, there hava been better games. But this one is very original 
 and deserves an applaud :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badger_faction1
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  impossible creatures is a game in wich the hero rex chance is searching for his father dr. chanikov 
 after sending him a letter informing him that his father wishes to see him (apparently rex hasn't 
 seen him over the course of many years) .
  
  when rex arrives at his fathers lab he is attacked by coyote scorpion crossbreeds controlled by 
 upton julius, the games villain and murderer of rex's father.
  
  but i digress from the actual GAME, impossible creatures is a game where you are given total creative 
 freedom to create your own army of enhnced biological monsters in which you can make them incredibly 
 powerful or ridiculously funny just by swapping a few legs or by giving a monkey wings.
  this game is also very difficult in terms of strategy, most maps have multiple objectives which 
 cause you to put either rex or lucy willing (whom saves rex from the coyote whatsits) into direct 
 danger and if they die you must reset the entire level, although this is very frustrating at times 
 it can aso add a sense of challenge to any level, because unlike other rts games they cannot defend 
 themselves.
  
  but before you can fight julius you must go through his cronies which usually escape at the end 
 of the first and second levels involving them, this makes every enemy have about three stages before 
 you can actually be rid of them.
  
  so if your looking for a good game which will probably have a good price (seeing that its release 
 date as some time ago) and low system requirements get this game and try out the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Impossible Creatures is an RTS with a seemingly complex premise- your armies are made out of creature 
 hybrids that fight for you with varying abilities. So its your job to devise up your very own legion 
 of unique creature hybrids. OK, that sounds kinda complicated... Trust me, the premise is actually 
 quite deciving. The game itself is so simplistic in actual practice, that those hybrids you make 
 might as well just be unique tanks. But despite this extreme simplicity, Impossible Creatures is 
 still quite fun to play since you'll enjoy making your hybrids and then watching them in action.
 
  
  The game's main storyline takes place at a set of islands in the pacific ocean. The whole fiasco 
 begins when Rex Chance gets a letter from his long lost father. So Rex Chance goes to these islands 
 in search of his father, and finds his laboratory deserted. After an incidential encounter with 
 the pompous Upton Julius, Rex Chance teams up with Lucy Willing to stop Upton Julius from executing 
 his plans of world domination. The story itself is quite simple, but the characters are all entertaining 
 and there is quite a bit of comic relief to be seen during the single-player campaign.
  
  The basic gameplay of Impossible Creatures is split into two sections, the actual battle, and the 
 creation of your creatures. You'll undoubtedly want to devise your own personal army rather than 
 use any of the pre-set armies that come with the game, so you'll have to go to the creature chamber. 
 The creature chamber lets you combine two creatures into a hybrid. The abilities, cost, and tech 
 level of the unit heavily depends on what creatures you used and what body parts are used. Certain 
 body parts give you abilities, while others just help (or potentially harm if you had a better 
 body part in place) a certain stat line. All units are divided into 5 tech levels. Higher tech 
 levels result in better, but more expensive and late-game creatures. This phase can be VERY adedicting 
 as you try to create good combinations for your army. This phase can go on for hours if you really 
 get into it! The only complaint against the creature chamber is that there was some potential for 
 comic relief here, but this chance was completely passed over, as there could of been some humor 
 in seeing your creature come together. Instead, the change is just done automatically, with no 
 special effects or anything like that. The second phase is the battle itself, and this isn't nearly 
 as interesting as the creature chamber is. Impossible Creatures essentially plays like old C&amp; C 
 games. Your most powerful creature? Might as well be a Mammoth Tank however way you look at it- 
 so what are you waiting for? Spam it! Just like C&amp; C, once you reach higher tech levels, there 
 is little to no reason to keep using the lower tech units- just start spamming the new ones. The 
 use of combined arms is rarely necessary with well-designed armies, so the game generally quickly 
 boils down to who can get their most powerful creatures the fastest.
  
  Graphically, Impossible Creatures is good looking all around. The creatures all look great, with 
 only occasional glitches to be encountered in the creature chamber and some iffy movement animations 
 for certain hybrids. The game also has some great looking environments. Impossible Creatures doesn't 
 do nearly as well with sound however. The creatures all make simple noises that get repetitive 
 very quickly, and combat noises are also very simplistic. Fortunately, the voice acting for the 
 campaign is very well done and helps bring the characters to life.
  
  In the end, Impossible Creatures is a game with a seemingly complex premise, but ultimately turns 
 out to be quite simple in practice. The actual RTS gameplay is old-fashioned and simple, but the 
 creature chamber is a blast to use. If your interested in making your own armies, Impossible Creatures 
 could be the RTS for you. Just don't expect revolutionary gameplay.
  
  Pros: Addicting creature creation system. Challenging and enjoyable single player campaign. Decent 
 AI. Decent graphics. Good voice acting.
  
  Cons: Very simplistic RTS gameplay. Recommendable for: People who want to make their own armies 
 and still enjoy old-fashioned C&amp; C style gameplay will adore Impossible Creatures. Gamers who 
 prefer more complex RTS gameplay however will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is acutly really good!
  
  Difficulty - This game belive it or not wasn't really that hard, but it sure waz fun!
  *
  Gameplay 
 - Gameplay was good too, but it could have been atleast alittle better!
  *
  Graphics - The graphics I found were neather good or bad! They were ok for a computer game!
  
 *
  Sound - Sound waz awsome the voice acting, animals fighting, and machines clanging together it 
 waz really good!
  *
  Value - I say this game is worth the money! The reason is because this is one of those games that 
 just kind of grows on you!
  *
  Bottom line - This game was pretty cool, not that tough, and really worth the money to get beacuse 
 you can never get tired of seeing morphed animals fight with each other! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elmetfano
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Ok i bought this game upstate a few years ago and its really fun. When I got home to play it. I 
 WAS HAVING SO MUCH FUN! ok so you combine creatures using two different animals and make a SUPER 
 CREATURE! Lets say u wana combine two creature by using the creature chamber and u can have the 
 head of a Tiger and the Legs, Body and Tail of a lobster, Well i cant describe it to much but its 
 really fun, theres also online and its fun. Its awsome playing against other IC players. I actully 
 was in a great match before with my friend (It was 2v2v2 and We won *pretends dirt is on shirt 
 and wipes it off) Its a BLASt :/ You can also download more creatures on impossiblecreaturesplannet 
 Its awsome Well watch a trailer or something or pick it up at a store for 19 bucks, It fun so watch 
 a tralier, pick it up, and kill that Elephant/Hornet that you enemy Calls Sally and use you Tigerobster 
 To Kill It!
  
  i say 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertb101
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the first strategy game Ive ever gotten. This game got me hooked on strategy games so the 
 next i bought was warcraft 3. Then Black and White 2. What im trying to say is a good game to start 
 out with as a stategy game. I recomend getting Warcraft 3 if you don't have it yet better and crazier 
 game. Also in this game you can have fun playing with your own creatures you create very fun and 
 cool. If you have this game you download the expansion Insect invasion. That is all i have to say 
 about this game so have fun with it if you buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condor23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  In Impossible creatures, you combine over 50 animals and get to battle them in various locations, 
 Impossible creatures is a fun and enjoyable game for a while. It features a 15 mission long story 
 mode about a man named Rex Chance who is in search of his long lost father who is working on a 
 science experiment in some massive island chain. There is an online multiplayer mode too which 
 an be fun at times too.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Combining creatures is loads of fun --- Fantastic story --- good online play ---
  nice visual design --- 
 solid voice acting
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE BAD:
  Animal sound effects get too repetive --- Some minor glitches --- battles aren't that intense
  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frango0010
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The game has an unique feature that let's you produce any kind of animal to fight for you, since 
 some people think that the game is hard because of the "animal fusion" system, it's not, because 
 the interface is very very simple, you look, you find what you want... If you play some hours you 
 will be able to use all game features... Play before write a review, because the game is really 
 cool and good... You will probably spent hours playing this game! Try to create your best animals 
 and have fun! Easy Game play, good graphics, worth sound quality... a valuable game... What are 
 you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yapperface
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Although creating the monsters can be very fun and entertaining, fighting them is not. It is satisfying, 
 but repetitive. However, if you factor the story into this mark, that pulls it up to an 8. The 
 storyline is great.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Pretty standard for it's time.
  
  Sound: 10
  Awesome voice acting steals the show. The FX are also quite nice, as you can hear your creatures 
 snarl, yelp and howl.
  
  Value: 7
  Not very much replay value, but not a lot of price.
  
  Tilt: 9
  I have a soft spot for this game though, because the story is so compelling, the 
 creatures so cool, the premise so awesome.
  
  Definitely a good game for RTS fans... who don't consider the strategy part the most important 
 thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  IC is a good game, with some nice addons and patches.
  If you have the two expansion sets you can melt 75 creatures together which is really fun.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  +Nice campaign story
  +Army builder
  +Tactical creatures 
  +Lots of creatures
  +Nice addons and patches
  -To fast quick and online battles
  -Easy recource 
 gathering and reaching levels
  
  Graphics:
  +looks good, for a cartoon based game.
  +Runs good and smooth even with a lot of creatures on the same screen
  +Nice movie scenes
  
 -Online lag due to the engine.
  
  Sounds:
  +Music is calm when not attacking and not calm when attacking
  +Overall good voice acting and 
 funny scenes
  -Animals do not sound like they really do
  
  Value:
  +Good value because of the very good campaign
  +Quick battles and online
  +Lots of creatures
 
  +Nice addons, which increases creatures
  -Quick battles go a bit too fast, you will be destroyed before you know it
  
  Variety:
  +Lots 
 of creatures
  +Nice addons, which increases creatures
  -Some creatures are a bit underused
  
  Online:
  +Quick battles
  -You will be destroyed 
 before you know it
  -Some lags, when with more players
  
  Tilt:
  Overall good presentation with creatures and movie campaign scenes
  
  IC is a good and SOLID 
 game
  cya all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 31, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this is one of the best ideas that any one has come up with. Mixing animals to get a special 
 creature with cool powers? Who would have thought of that?
  
  You get a load of animals that you can mix up and each animal has it's own special abilities. Mix 
 up the right creatures and you can have a awesome creature worthy of battle.
  
  The creature mixtures are really well thought out and really well put together. The maps are also 
 really well done. 
  
  I do however feel that I can't really play this game for to long. I get a bit irretated with all 
 the screeching, hooting and wailing. Also it is just really irretating to play. I don't know why 
 but it is. I enjoy making the animals up more than playing the actual game. 
  
  I think this is an okay game but I would rather watch out for it in my nearest second hand store 
 to be honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glorgan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that allows you to easily create your own creatures, that you can then pit 
 in battle against other creatures, trying to destroy the enemy base.
  This is a real time strategy game that stands out from the rest in the you can create your own 
 army from 50 (or over if you download the expansions) .
  This is a fairly easy RTS to pick up, being that it does not have a lot of complicated things that 
 must be done in order to win.
  
  I give this game 4 1/2 stars out of 5, and think that anyone can enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeGamespot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, as well this game isn't bad, for everyone who want a innovative game I suggest this one. It's 
 pretty well made because of the graphics and of sounds, it's good to kids and even to adults play, I 
 hope you all have fun.
  You don't even need a **** hell good computer, you just need some patience to play it, to desing 
 maps and things like that, in the start you love it but after it gets a little boring, but Im starting 
 to play it again because I got nothing to play.
  Well, I don't know what to say but I can recommend some other games such as Need for Speed: Most 
 Wanted, Warcraft III: Frozen Throne, Command & Conquer Red Alert 2, Worms, well whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho_FreakX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good  Control, Manage & grow your own Freak Army of Cross Bred Animals. 
  
  The Bad  The Single Player Experience is over way to soon. Theres a Story but not too Much of 
 it. It seems like any RTS game with a little bit of a story slap on it.
  
  Impossible Creatures is a RTS plays just like Empire Earth. In Impossible Creatures you collect 
 animal DNA and crossbred 2 different animals to make one freakish animal. In Impossible Creatures 
 you play as a young man looking for his Father who is a scientist working on an island which he 
 has lost contact with you. The Single Player will Take you threw 15 missions which is threw 14 
 different environments. The Environments ranges from Deserts to Snowy Land There are over 50 Animals 
 to collect their DNA and crossbreed. In impossible creatures the game play like any RTS collect 
 resources (Electricity & coal) to produce Building Structures & animals. The main coal is to destroy 
 the other army there are some other sub coals mostly consist of collection DNA & destroying a certain 
 structure. One problem I always have is the computer is always 2 steps ahead of you in any way 
 you look at it one nice feature is that you can upgrade you stats on your army which gives them 
 stronger attacks and faster speed and etc. you can also create a lot of henchmen to do all of your 
 building also you can upgrade there stats where they work faster and even fight off enemies. I 
 wish the Population cap is bigger then 75 so that means you can have an army & henchmen of 75 no 
 more then 75. I believe that kind of sucks who knows there may be a sequel someday I extremely 
 doubt it though. 
  
  The Cinemas in the Game are Disappointing, The Character models are very bright and shiny detailed. 
 The Environments could look better but for a RTS game you dont need the environments be extremely 
 detailed. The Sound department voice work is sometimes annoying but most of the Time well done 
 most of the characters done with British ancient to supply the feel of the game. All in the all 
 nothing Major thats disappointing from the Sound. I wish there were better music to supply the 
 game. 
  
  If youre looking for another RTS or looking for something unique heres the game for you. It will 
 supply you with a single & multiplayer experience that will not be forgotten. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2004 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Impossible Creatures takes a startling and fun concept and turns it into an art: combine creatures, 
 then fight with them.
  
  Gameplay: Impossible creatures is a fun game, to say the least. The joys of seeing what combinations 
 you can make are many. Combining anything, say a gorilla and a rat, will give you funny, often 
 hilarious results. Sending these creatures off to fight is heart-pounding. Will your new combinations 
 work or will they be slaughtered? What has the enemy been making? How will you counter it? These 
 are the great points of Impossible Creatures gameplay. 
  It is, however, slightly marred because the basic RTS elements are there, and really boring. Monotony 
 happens as you gather resources and build buildings, waiting for the fun to begin. If the core 
 gameplay had been as innovative as creating the units, this games gameplay would be amazing. As 
 it is, however, it still stands as a great game.
  
  Graphics: Showcasing a variety of wonderful locales, Impossible Creatures' graphics are superb. 
 I experienced no gliches or slowdowns, and any relatively recent machine (2-3 years old) should 
 play the game easily.
  
  Sound: There is not enough sound in the game. It needs a better score, I can't even recall any 
 tunes.
  
  Value: It is a great game, even though it is flawed from the brilliance it could have been.
  
 
  Tilt: If you are a fan of the RTS genre, this game is deserving of a playthrough. As a casual RTS 
 player, however, get something else, like... Starcraft. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
