-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Incubation: Time Is Running Out
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/incubation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 8.0, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 104 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blue Byte
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Sep 30, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What could well have been an entirely successful departure from the droves of underdeveloped strategy 
 games saturating the market instead feels all too familiar despite its striking aesthetic differences. 
 

 Turn-based strategy games traditionally do not offer much in the way of good looks, but Incubation 
 smashes the trend with radiant polygonal graphics - enough to make even the finest 3D shooter jealous. 
 You control a brat pack of space marines led by a seasoned sergeant whom you must lead to victory 
 against overwhelming alien odds. All of these, alien and soldier alike, are cleanly texture-mapped 
 and carefully animated, lending each a lifelike appearance pleasantly uncharacteristic of strategy 
 games. Likewise, the future space colony setting looks bleak and believable, though all the missions 
 start to look a little too similar around halfway through the campaign. Of course, the campaign 
 will be over before you know it, which is not to say you won't run into a number of problems while 
 it lasts. Incubation looks like a real winner at first, but it doesn't fulfill its potential.  
 

 Incubation supports 3Dfx accelerators out of the box, but it looks fantastic either way. Better 
 yet, it sounds every bit as good. The perfectly paced soundtrack hearkens a real sense of dread 
 and drama and makes the missions that much more enjoyable, though it begins to lose its charm after 
 a while because of its brevity. Each of your soldiers has a unique personality, and the dozen available 
 weapons (from light combat guns to high-energy lasers) sound distinctively devastating.  

 Once you're knee-deep in the combat zone, a fully customizable camera lets you examine each turn 
 from a bird's-eye view, from your squaddies' perspective, or anywhere in between simply by panning 
 around with the mouse. This is a pretty feature, but it isn't just eye candy - good camera work 
 is necessary to anticipate potential hazards, as missions aren't limited to a flat playing field. 
 At the same time, moving your troops from place to place is a thankfully convenient matter of clicking 
 on a viable destination marked by how many action points that troop will have remaining once it's 
 there. It is fortunate the interface is so intuitive since the game's documentation is lacking 
 everything but color.  

 Most weapons at your disposal carry limited ammunition and can overheat rather quickly, forcing 
 you to fire only when you must. Likewise, weapons are carefully balanced such that only with a 
 variety of specialists will your squad succeed. Rapid-fire machine guns and double-barreled assault 
 rifles are great all-around weapons but won't do much good against some of the tougher Scay'Ger. 
 You'll need flamethrowers, minelayers, or even a Multi-Target Destroyer to deal with their likes. 
 Such heftier weapons also sport secondary attack modes whose effects are significantly more powerful 
 at the cost of additional ammunition. Guns aside, your troops will be able to purchase armor, jet 
 packs, medical kits, combat drugs, motion sensors, and more - but they'll need to develop the appropriate 
 skill levels before these can be of any use. Your troops get tougher and faster as they survive 
 encounters, and you'll be able to specialize them as you see fit with the skill points they earn 
 in the field.  

 The campaign game pits you in command of three to six marines (including the sergeant) over the 
 course of around two dozen missions, none of which takes a very long time. A handful of these are 
 enjoyable and intense, requiring you to split your small squad as a couple of troops make a run 
 for the goal while the rest provide covering fire. Other missions are much more constrained, forcing 
 you to find a predetermined solution rather than carry out a strategy. The campaign is linear in 
 all but a handful of instances where you must arbitrarily choose between two available scenarios. 
 One way or another, you'll witness the campaign's disappointing finale after only twenty hours 
 or so. At that point you can settle for the so-called instant action mode where you must custom-pick 
 your squad and equipment before the fight. Assembling a winning squad is certainly one of the more 
 interesting aspects of Incubation, but doing so is nobody's idea of action and far from instantaneous. 
 You can tackle the handful of instant action missions on your own or use them as battlegrounds 
 for a multiplayer deathmatch.  

 Combat is all you worry about in Incubation. Sometimes you'll pick up some new gear in between missions, 
 but the game offers nothing in the way of research and development or resource management. While 
 there's nothing inherently wrong with a game that strictly emphasizes tactical combat, Incubation 
 is significantly lacking in this all-important aspect. Your troops just walk; they cannot run, 
 crouch, or crawl. Rarely do they miss their mark, and if they do, only with a scarce few weapons 
 can a bad shot injure one of your fellows. Weapons are utterly useless in an overheated state - 
 attempting to squeeze off one more shot will always result in the weapon jamming or fatally exploding. 
 Some chance of success would encourage you to take the risk when faced with a dire situation. Most 
 weapons also sport an overpowering "defense mode," which allows for unlimited opportunity fire 
 during the enemy's turn. A soldier in defense mode will fire on every target that makes a move 
 within his line of sight during the next turn until his weapon overheats, he runs out of ammunition, 
 or he is killed.  

 There are fewer than a dozen breeds of Scay'Ger to fight against and only around half of these appear 
 at all frequently. None is particularly bright and all are bluntly predictable, always opting to 
 attack the closest target rather than wisely amassing their superior numbers upon the deadliest 
 threat to their existence. But most inexcusable is the fact that the Scay'Ger, unlike your troops, 
 cannot use opportunity fire during your turn, allowing you to barge around corners or into rooms 
 with no fear of retaliation. Incubation may be turn-based, but that doesn't intrinsically make 
 it any more intellectual than those mouse-busting real-time games it tries so hard not to be.  
 

 Incubation looks and sounds outstanding, and it controls well. The small-scale, tactical-level combat 
 demands that every soldier play an important role. But in spite of its many skin-deep strengths, 
 Incubation nonetheless stumbles in those same areas that bog down so many other strategy games: 
 The computer opponent is a pushover, gameplay lacks depth, and the campaign is not satisfying. 
 What could well have been an entirely successful departure from the droves of underdeveloped strategy 
 games saturating the market instead feels all too familiar despite its striking aesthetic differences. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dpreedx17
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game was awesome when it was released, but the multiplayer and single player campaigns are 
 still addictive as hell. The graphics are definitely dated, but it has a way of drawing you in 
 with the gameplay and character development, that was ingenious and ahead of its time. You lead 
 a squad of soldiers through various missions, and even though the game is turn based it requires 
 intense strategy to plan ahead and get you and your men through alive.
  
  It's not common for such an old game to still stand out, the only drawback is I cannot find a copy 
 of the Wilderness Missions - the expansion anywhere, and I've tried ebay!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kajqrd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  You are stationed with a small crew in the city of Scay Hal'Wa. A virus have just started infecting 
 the local animals making them agressive and turning them on the populace. A major evacuation of 
 the population has been started and it is your job to search the remaining ruins and make sure 
 no one is left behind. And more importantly keep the aliens away long enough to survive yourself. 
 Incubation is a turn-based strategy game played in the Battle Isle universe. But contrary to the 
 Battle Isle games here you follow a small and select group of people and move them around a map 
 trying to keep them alive. The athmosphere of the game is very tense especially since you get to 
 know the people in your group quite well. The Music and sound effects adds to the athmosphere and 
 the graphics are excelent for a game this old. The idea of using 3-D graphics for a turn based 
 game hadn't been used before so in that respect the game is also breaking new ground. The game 
 starts out pretty easy but quickly becomes quite dificult. And in some missions you will find yourself 
 loading a couple of times before you are through. A good advice is to never accept losses on your 
 side as the experience you gather during the missions is critical later on. Incubation is an experience 
 pretty close to watching Alien except it goes on as long as you could want. But don't come near 
 if you have fragile nerves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hastur
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  In those days 3D models in pc games still looked awful. Back than I preferred sprites. And it wasnt 
 until Half Life came along a year later when my preference changed. But with Incubation its full 
 3D environment served a tactical purpose. As you could turn the camera view in a 360 degree angle. 
 It was the first time I had seen it implemented in a strategy game. And also the first time Id 
 seen a game make use of its in-game engine for cut scenes. So it made quite an impression on me. 
 It had an excellent music score, which added to the dark atmosphere. And although the game play 
 was a bit repetitive, it was very addictive, so it didnt bother me that much. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
